In this poem, ludes and ledes are used indiscriminately, but most frequently in the sense of
men, people. Sir Frederick Madden has shown, from the equivalent words in the French original
of Robert of Brunne, "that he always uses the word in the meaning of possessions, whether consisting
of tenements, rents, fees, &c.;" in short, wealth.

If, therefore, the word has this sense in old English, we might expect to find it in Anglo-Saxon,
and I think it is quite clear that we have it at least in one instance. In the Ancient Laws
and Institutes of England, vol. i. p. 184., an oath is given, in which the following passage
occurs:

  "Do spa to lane
  beo þé he þinum
  I leat me be minum
  ne 3ypne le þines
  ne laedes ne landes
  ne sac ne socne
  ne þu mines ne þeapst
  ne mint ic þe nan þio3."

Mr. Thorpe has not translated the word, nor is it noticed in his Glossary; but I think there
can be no doubt that it should be rendered by goods, chattels, or wealth, i.e., movable property.

This will be even more obvious from an extract given by Bishop Nicholson, in the preface to
Wilkin's Leges Saxonicæ p. vii. It is part of the oath of a Scotish baron of much later date,
and the sense here is unequivocal:--

    "I becom zour man my liege king in land, lith[2], life and
    lim, warldly honour, homage, fealty, and leawty, against all
    that live and die."

Numerous examples are to be found in the M.H. German, of which I will cite a few:

  "Ir habt doch zu iuwere hant
  Beidin liute unde lant."

  Tristr. 13934.

  "Und bevelhet ir liute unde lant."

  Iwein. 2889. {432}

  "Ich teile ir liute unde lant."

  Id. 7714.

And in the old translation of the Liber Dialogorum of St. Gregory, printed in the cloister
of S. Ulrich at Augspurg in 1473:--

    "In der Statt waren hoch Türen und schöne Heüser von Silber und
    Gold, und aller Hand leüt, und die Frawen und Man naÿgten im
    alle."

Lastly, Jo. Morsheim in his Untreuer Frawen:--

  "Das was mein Herr gar gerne hört,
  Und ob es Leut und Land bethort."

Now, when we recollect the state of the people in those times, the serf-like vassalage, the
Hörigkeit or Leibeigenthum, which prevailed, we cannot be surprised that a word which signified
possessions should designate also the people. It must still, however, be quite uncertain which
is the secondary sense.

The root of the word, as Grimm justly remarks, is very obscure; and yet it seems to me that
he himself has indirectly pointed it out:--

    "Goth. liudan[3] (crescere); O.H.G. liotan (sometimes unorganic,
    hliotan); O.H.G. liut (populus); A.-S. lëóð; O.N. lióð: Goth.
    lauths -is (homo), ju33alauths -dis (adolescens); O.H.G. sumar
    -lota (virgulta palmitis, i.e. qui una æstate creverunt, Gl.
    Rhb. 926'b, Jun. 242.); M.H.G. corrupted into sumer -late (M.S.
    i. 124'b. 2. 161'a. virga herba). It is doubtful whether ludja
    (facies), O.H.G. andlutti, is to be reckoned among
    them."--Deutsche Gram. ii. 21. For this last see Diefenbach,
    Vergl. Gram. der Goth. Spr. i. 242.

In his Erlauterungen zu Elene, p. 166., Grimm further remarks:--

    "The verb is leoðan, leað, luðon (crescere), O.S. lioðan, lôð,
    luðun. Leluðon (Cædm. 93. 28.) is creverunt, pullulant; and
    3eloðen (ap. Hickes, p. 135. note) onustus, but rather cretus.
    Elene, 1227. 3eloðen unðep leápum (cretus sub foliis)."

It has been surmised that LEDE was connected with the O.N. hlÿt[4]--which not only signified
sors, portio, but res consistentia--and the A.-S. hlet, hlyt, lot, portion, inheritance: thus,
in the A.-S. Psal. xxx. 18., on hanðum ðinum hlÿt mín, my heritage is in thy hands. Notker's
version is: Mín lôz ist in dínen handen. I have since found that Kindlinger (Geschichte der
Deutchen Hörigkeit) has made an attempt to derive it from Lied, Lit, which in Dutch, Flemish,
and Low German, still signify a limb; I think, unsuccessfully.

Ray, in his Gloss. Northanymbr., has "unlead, nomen opprobrii;" but he gives a false derivation:
Grose, in his Provincial Glossary, "unleed or unlead, a general name for any crawling venomous
creature, as a toad, &c. It is sometimes ascribed to a man, and then it denotes a sly wicked
fellow, that in a manner creeps to do mischief. See Mr. Nicholson's Catalogue."

In the 2d edition of Mr. Brockett's Glossary, we have: "Unletes, displacers or destroyers of
the farmer's produce."

This provincial preservation of a word of such rare occurrence in Anglo-Saxon, and of which
no example has yet been found in old English, is a remarkable circumstance. The word has evidently
signified, like the Gothic, in the first place poor; then wretched, miserable; and hence, perhaps,
its opprobrious sense of mischievous or wicked.

    "In those rude times when wealth or movable property consisted
    almost entirely of living money, in which debts were contracted
    and paid, and for which land was given in mortgage or sold; it
    is quite certain that the serfs were transferred with the land,
    the lord considering them as so much live-stock, or part of his
    chattels."

A vestige of this feeling with regard to dependants remains in the use of the word Man (which
formerly had the same sense as lede). We still speak of "a general and his men," and use the
expression "our men." But, happily for the masses of mankind, few vestiges of serfdom and slavery,
and those in a mitigated form, now virtually exist.

S.W. SINGER.

April 16. 1850.

    [Footnote 1: It occurs many times in the Moeso-Gothic version of
    the Gospels for [Greek: ptochos]. From the Glossaries, it
    appears that iungalauths is used three times for [Greek:
    neaniskos], a young man; therefore lauths or lauds would signify
    simply man; and the plural, laudeis, would be people. See
    this established by the analogy of vairths, or O.H.G. virahi,
    also signifying people. Grimm's Deutsche Gram. iii. 472.,
    note. "Es konnte zwar unlêds (pauper) aber auch unlêths
    heissen."--D. Gr. 225.]

    [Footnote 2: Sir F. Palgrave has given this extract in the
    Appendix to his Rise and Progress of the English Commonwealth,
    p. ccccvii., where, by an error of the press, or of
    transcription, the word stands lich. It may be as well to
    remark, that the corresponding word in Latin formulas of the
    same kind is "catallis," i.e. chattels. A passage in Havelok,
    v. 2515., will clearly demonstrate that lith was at least one
    kind of chattel, and equivalent to fe (fee).

      "Thanne he was ded that Sathanas
        Sket was seysed al that his was,
      In the King's hand il del,
        Lond and lith, and other catel,
      And the King ful sone it yaf
      Ubbe in the hond with a fayr staf,
      And seyde, 'Her ich sayse the
      In al the lond in al the fe.'"]

    [Footnote 3: The author of Tripartita seu de Analogia
    Linguacum, under the words "Leute" and "Barn," says:--"Respice
    Ebr. Id. Ebr. ledah, partus, proles est. Ebr. lad, led, gigno."
    A remarkable coincidence at least with Grimm's derivation of
    léôd from the Goth. liudan, crescere.]

    [Footnote 4: Thus, Anthon, Teutschen Landwirthschaft, Th. i.
    p. 61.:--"Das Land eines jeden Dorfes, einer jeden Germarkung
    war wirklich getheilt und, wie es sehr wahrscheinlich, alsdan
    verlost worden. Daher nannte man dasjenige, was zu einem
    Grunstüke an Äkern, Wiesen gehörte, ein Los (Sors). Das
    Burgundische Gesetz redet ausfdrücklich vom Lande das man in
    Lose erhalten hat (Terra sortis titulo acquisita, Tit. i. §
    1.)" Schmeller, in his Bayrishces Wort. B. v. Lud-aigen,
    also points to the connection of Lud with hluz-hlut, sors,
    portio; but he rather inclines to derive it from the Low-Latin,
    ALLODIUM. It appears to me that the converse of this is most
    likely to have been the case, and that this very word LEDS or
    LÆDS is likely to furnish a more satisfactory etymology of
    ALLODIUM than has hitherto been offered.]

       *       *       *       *       * {433}

BP. COSIN'S MSS.--INDEX TO BAKER'S MSS.

Your correspondent "J. SANSOM" (No. 19. p. 303.) may perhaps find some unpublished remains
of Bp. Cosin in Baker's MSS.; from the excellent index to which (Cambridge, 1848, p. 57.) I
transcribe the following notices, premising that of the volumes of the MSS. the first twenty-three
are in the British Museum, and the remainder in the University Library, (not, as Mr. Carlyle
says in a note in, I think, the 3d vol. of his Letters. &c. of Cromwell in the library of Trin.
Coll.).

    "Cosin, Bp.--
      Notes of, in his Common Prayer, edit. 1636, xx. 175.
      Benefactions to See of Durham, xxx. 377-380.
      Conference with Abp. of Trebisond, xx. 178.
      Diary in Paris, 1651, xxxvi. 329.
      Intended donation for a Senate-House, xxx. 454.
      Letters to Peter Gunning, principally concerning
        the authority of the Apocrypha, vi. 174-180.
        230-238.
      Manual of Devotion, xxxvi. 338."

As the editors of the Index to Baker's MSS. invite corrections from those who use the MSS.,
you will perhaps be willing to print the following additions and corrections, which may be
of use in case a new edition of the Index should be required:--

    Preface, p. vii. add, in Thoresby Correspondence, one or two
    of Baker's Letters have been printed, others have appeared in
    Nichols's Literary Anecdotes.

    Index, p. 2. Altars, suppression of, in Ely Diocese, 1550, xxx.
    213. Printed in the British Magazine, Oct. 1849, p. 401.

    P. 5. Babraham, Hullier, Vicar of, burnt for heresy. Brit.
    Mag. Nov. 1849, p. 543.

    P. 13. Bucer incepts as Dr. of Divinty, 1549, xxiv. 114. See Dr.
    Lamb's Documents from MSS. C.C.C.C. p. 153.

    Appointed to lecture by Edw. VI., 1549, xxx. 370. See Dr. Lamb,
    p. 152.

    Letter of University to Edw., recommending his family to care,
    x. 396. Dr. Lamb, p. 154.

    P. 14. Buckingham, Dr. Eglisham's account of his poisoning James
    I., xxxii. 149-153. See Hurl. Misc.

    Buckmaster's Letter concerning the King's Divorce, x. 243. This
    is printed in Burnet, vol. iii. lib. 1. collect. No. 16., from
    a copy sent by Baker, but more fully in Dr. Lamb, p. 23., and in
    Cooper's Annals.

    P. 25. Renunciation of the Pope, 1535. See Ant. Harmer,
    Specimen, p. 163.

    P. 51. Cowel, Dr., charge against, and defence of his
    Antisanderus. Brit. Mag. Aug. 1849, p. 184.

    Cranmer, extract from C.C.C. MS. concerning. Brit. Mag. Aug.
    1849, p. 169, seq.

    Cranmer, life of, xxxi. 1-3. Brit. Mag. Aug. 1849, p. 165.

    P. 57. Convocation, subscribers to the judgment of, xxxi. 9.
    British Magazine, Sept. 1849, p. 317.

    P. 68. Ely, Altars, suppression of, 1550, xxx. 213. Brit. Mag.
    Oct. 1849, p. 401.

    P. 77. Several of the papers relating to Bishop Fisher will be
    found in Dr. Hymers' edition of The Funeral Sermon on Lady
    Margaret.

    P. 80. Gloucester, Abbey of, &c., a Poem by Malvern, v. 285-7.
    Brit. Mag. xxi. 377.; Caius Coll. MSS. No. 391. art 13.

    Goodman, Declaration concerning the articles in his book.
    Strype's Annals, I. i. 184.

    P. 89. Henry VII., Letter to Lady Margaret, xix. 262. See Dr.
    Hymers, as above, p. 160.

    P. 91. Henry VIII., Letter to, giving an account of the death of
    Wyngfield, &c. See Sir H. Ellis, Ser. III. No. 134.

    P. 94. Humphrey, Bishop, Account, &c., xxxv. 1-19. Rend xxvi.
    1-19.

    Humphrey, Bishop, Images and Relics, &c., xxx. 133-4. Brit.
    Mag. Sept. 1849, p. 300.

    P. 121-2. Lady Margaret. Several of the articles relating to
    Lady Margaret have been printed by Dr. Hymers (ut sup.).

    P. 137. Pole Card. Oratio Johannis Stoyks, &c., v. 310-312. Dr.
    Lamb, p. 177.

    P. 143. Redman, Dr., Particulars of, xxxii. 495.--Brit. Mag.
    Oct. 1849, p. 402.

    P. 151. Spelman's Proposition concerning the Saxon Lecture, &c.
    Sir H. Ellis Letters of Eminent Literary Men, Camd. Soc. No.
    59.

    P. 169. Noy's Will, xxxvi. 375., read 379.

Many of the articles relating to Cambridge in the MSS. have been printed by Mr. Cooper in his
Annals of Cambridge: some relating to Cromwell are to be found in Mr. Carlyle's work; and several,
besides those which I have named, are contained in Dr. Lamb's Documents.

J.E.B. MAYOR.

Marlborough Coll., March 30.

       *       *       *       *       *

ARABIC NUMERALS AND CIPHER.

Will you suffer me to add some further remarks on the subject of the Arabic numerals and cipher;
as neither the querists nor respondents seem to have duly appreciated the immense importance
of the step taken by introducing the use of a cipher. I would commence with observing, that
we know of no people tolerably advanced in civilisation, whose system of notation had made
such little progress, beyond that of the mere savage, as the Romans. The rudest savages could
make upright scratches on the face of a rock, and set them in a row, to signify units; and
as the circumstance of having ten fingers has led the people of every nation to give a distinct
name to the number ten and its multiples, the savage would have taken but a little step when
he invented such a mode of expressing tens as crossing his scratches, thus X. His ideas, however,
enlarge, and he makes three scratches, thus [C with square sides], to express 100. Generations
of such vagabonds as founded Rome pass away, and at length some one discovers that, by using
but half the figure for X, the number 5 may be conjectured to be meant. Another calculator
follows {434} up this discovery, and by employing [C with square sides], half the figure used
for 100, he expresses 50. At length the rude man procured a better knife, with which he was
enabled to give a more graceful form to his [C with square sides], by rounding it into C; then
two such, turned different ways, with a distinguishing cut between them, made CD, to express
a thousand; and as, by that time, the alphabet was introduced, they recognised the similarity
of the form at which they had thus arrived to the first letter of Mille, and called it M, or
1000. The half of this DC was adopted by a ready analogy for 500. With that discovery the invention
of the Romans stopped, though they had recourse to various awkward expedients for making these
forms express somewhat higher numbers. On the other hand, the Hebrews seem to have been provided
with an alphabet as soon as they were to constitute a nation; and they were taught to use the
successive letters of that alphabet to express the first ten numerals. In this way b and c
might denote 2 and 3 just as well as those figures; and numbers might thus be expressed by
single letters to the end of the alphabet, but no further. They were taught, however, and the
Greeks learnt from them, to use the letters which follow the ninth as indications of so many
tens; and those which follow the eighteenth as indicative of hundreds. This process was exceedingly
superior to the Roman; but at the end of the alphabet it required supplementary signs. In this
way bdecba might have expressed 245321 as concisely as our figures; but if 320 were to be taken
from this sum, the removal of the equivalent letters cb would leave bdea, or apparently no
more than 2451. The invention of a cipher at once beautifully simplified the notation, and
facilitated its indefinite extension. It was then no longer necessary to have one character
for units and another for as many tens. The substitution of 00 for cb, so as to write bdeooa,
kept the d in its place, and therefore still indicating 40,000. It was thus that 27, 207, and
270 were made distinguishable at once, without needing separate letters for tens and hundreds;
and new signs to express millions and their multiples became unnecessary.

I have been induced to trespass on your columns with this extended notice of the difficulty
which was never solved by either the Hebrews or Greeks, from understanding your correspondent
"T.S.D." p. 367, to say that "the mode of obviating it would suggest itself at once." As to
the original query,--whence came the invention of the cipher, which was felt to be so valuable
as to be entitled to give its name to all the process of arithmetic?--"T.S.D." has given the
querist his best clue in sending him to Mr. Strachey's Bija Ganita, and to Sir E. Colebrooke's
Algebra of the Hindus, from the Sanscrit of Brahmegupta. Perhaps a few sentences may sufficiently
point out where the difficulty lies. In the beginning of the sixth century, the celebrated
Boethius described the present system as an invention of the Pythagoreans, meaning, probably,
to express some indistinct notion of its coming from the east. The figures in MS. copies of
Boethius are the same as our own for 1, 8, and 9; the same, but inverted, for 2 and 5; and
are not without vestiges of resemblance in the remaining figures. In the ninth century we come
to the Arabian Al Sephadi, and derive some information from him; but his figures have attracted
most notice, because though nearly all of them are different from those found in Boethius,
they are the same as occur in Planudes, a Greek monk of the fourteenth century, who says of
his own units, "These nine characters are Indian," and adds, "they have a tenth character called
[Greek: tziphra], which they express by an 0, and which denotes the absence of any number."
The date of Boethius is obviously too early for the supposition of an Arabic origin; but it
is doubted whether the figures are of his time, as the copyists of a work in MS. were wont
to use the characters of their own age in letters, and might do so in the case of figures also.

H.W.

       *       *       *       *       *

ROMAN NUMERALS.

There are several points connected with the subject of numerals that are important in the history
of practical arithmetic, to which neither scientific men nor antiquaries have paid much attention.
Yet if the principal questions were brought in a definite form before the contributors to the
"NOTES AND QUERIES," I feel quite sure that a not inconsiderable number of them will be able
to contribute each his portion to the solution of what may till now be considered as almost
a mystery. With your permission, I will propose a few queries relating to the subject,

1. When did the abacus, or the "tabel" referred to in my former letters, cease to be used as
calculating instruments?

The last printed work in which the abacal practice was given for the purposes of tuition that
I have been able to discover, is a 12mo. edition, by Andrew Mellis, of Dee's Robert Recorde, 1682.

2. When did the method of recording results in Roman numerals cease to be used in mercantile
account-books? Do any ledgers or other account-books, of ancient dates, exist in the archives
of the City Companies, or in the office of the City Chamberlain? If there do, these would go
far towards settling the question.

3. When in the public offices of the Government? It is probable that criteria will be found
in many of them, which are inaccessible to the public generally.

4. When in the household-books of royalty and nobility? This is a class of MSS. to which I
have paid next to no attention; and, possibly, had the query been in my mind through life,
many fragments {435} tending towards the solution that have passed me unnoticed would have
saved me from the necessity of troubling your correspondents. The latest that I remember to
have particularly noticed is that of Charles I. in the Fitzwilliam Museum at Cambridge; but
I shall not be surprised to find that the system was continued down to George I., or later
still. Conservatism is displayed in its perfection in the tenacious adherence of official underlings
to established forms and venerable routine.

T.S.D.

Shooter's Hill, April 8.

    [Our correspondent will find some curious notices of early dates
    of Arabic numerals, from the Rev. Edmund Venables, Rev. W.
    Gunner, and Mr. Ouvry, in the March number of the Archæological
    Journal, p. 75-76.; and the same number also contains, at p.
    85., some very interesting remarks by the Rev. Joseph Hunter,
    illustrative of the subject, and instancing a warrant from Hugh
    le Despenseer to Bonefez de Peruche and his partners, merchants
    of a company, to pay forty pounds, dated Feb. 4, 19 Edward II.,
    i.e. 1325, in which the date of the year is expressed in Roman
    numerals; and on the dorso, written by one of the Italian
    merchants to whom the warrant was addressed, the date of the
    payment, Feb. 1325. in Arabic numerals, of which Mr. Hunter
    exhibited a fac-simile at a meeting of the Institute.]

       *       *       *       *       *

Arabic Numerals.--In the lists of works which treat of Arabic Numerals, the following have
not been noticed, although they contain a review of what has been written on their introduction
into this part of Europe:--Archæologia, vols. x. xiii.; Bibliotheca Literaria, Nos. 8. and
10., including Huetiana on this subject; and Morant's Colchester, b. iii. p. 28.

T.J.

       *       *       *       *       *

ERROR IN HALLAM'S HISTORY OF LITERATURE.

If Mr. Hallam's accuracy in parvis could be fairly judged by the following instance, and that
given by your correspondent "CANTAB." (No. 4, p. 51.), I fear much could not be said for it.
The following passage is from Mr. Hallam's account of Campanella and his disciple Adami. My
reference is to the first edition of Mr. Hallam's work; but the passage stands unaltered in
the second. I believe these to be rare instances of inaccuracy.

    "Tobias Adami, ... who dedicated to the philosophers of Germany
    his own Prodromus Philosophiæ Instauratio, prefixed to his
    edition of Campanella's Compendium de Rerum Naturæ,
    published at Frankfort in 1617. Most of the other writings of
    the master seem to have preceded this edition, for Adami
    enumerates them in his Prodromus."--Hist. of Literature,
    iii. 149.

The title is not Prodromus Philosophiæ Instauratio, which is not sense; but Prodromus Philosophiæ
Instaurandæ (Forerunner of a philosophy to be constructed). This Prodromus is a treatise of
Campanella's, not, as Mr. Hallam says, of Adami. Adami published the Prodromus for Campanella,
who was in prison; and he wrote a preface, in which he gives a list of other writings of Campanella,
which he proposes to publish afterwards. What Mr. Hallam calls an "edition," was the first
publication.

Mere accident enabled me to detect these errors. I am not a bibliographer and do not know a
ten-thousandth part of what Mr. Hallam knows. I extract this note from my common-place book,
and send it to you, hoping to elicit the opinions of some of your learned correspondents on
the general accuracy in biography and bibliography of Mr. Hallam's History of Literature. Has
Mr. Bolton Corney, if I may venture to name him, examined the work? His notes and opinion would
be particularly valuable.

As a few inaccuracies such as this may occur in any work of large scope proceeding from the
most learned of men, and be accidentally detected by an ignoramus, so a more extensive impeachment
of Mr. Hallam's accuracy would make a very trifling deduction from his great claims to respect
and well-established fame. I believe I rightly understand the spirit in which you desire your
periodical to be the medium for emending valuable works, when I thus guard myself against the
appearance of disrespect to a great ornament of literature.

C.

       *       *       *       *       *

NOTES FROM CUNNINGHAM'S HANDBOOK FOR LONDON.

We have already shown pretty clearly, how high is the opinion we entertain of the value of
our able contributor Mr. Peter Cunningham's amusing Handbook for London, by the insertion of
numerous Notes upon his first edition. We will now give our readers an opportunity of judging
how much the second edition, which is just published, has been improved through the further
researches of that gentleman, by giving them a few Notes from it, consisting entirely of new
matter, and very curious withal. When we add that the work is now enriched by a very copious
Index of Names, it will readily be seen how much the value and utility of the book has been
increased.

Hanover Square.--"The statue of William Pitt, by Sir Francis Chantrey, set up in the year 1831,
is of bronze, and cost 7000l. I was present at its erection with Sir Francis Chantrey and my
father, who was Chantrey's assistant. The statue was placed on its pedestal between seven and
eight in the morning, and while the workmen were away at their breakfasts, a rope was thrown
round the neck of the figure, and a vigorous attempt made by several sturdy Reformers to pull
it down. When word of what they were about was brought to my father, he exclaimed, with a smile
{436} upon his face, 'The cramps are leaded, and they may pull to doomsday.' The cramps are
the iron bolts fastening the statue to the pedestal. The attempt was soon abandoned."

Hyde Park Corner.--"There were cottages here in 1655; and the middle of the reign of George
II. till the erection of Apsely House, the small entrance gateway was flanked on its east site
by a poor tenement known as 'Allen's stall.' Allen, whose wife kept a moveable apple-stall
at the park entrance, was recognised by George II. as an old soldier at the battle of Dettingen,
and asked (so pleased was the King at meeting the veteran) 'what he could do for him.' Allen,
after some hesitation, asked for a piece of ground for a permanent apple-stall at Hyde Park
Corner, and a grant was made to him of a piece of ground which his children afterwards sold
to Apsley, Lord Bathurst. Mr. Crace has a careful drawing of the Hyde Park Corner, showing
Allen's stall and the Hercules' Pillars."

Pall Mall.--"Mr. Fox told Mr. Rogers, that Sydenham was sitting at his window looking on the
Mall, with his pipe in his mouth and a silver tankard before him, when a fellow made a snatch
at the tankard, and ran off with it. Nor was he overtaken, said Fox, before he got among the
bushes in Bond Street, and there they lost him."

Lansdowne House.--"The iron bars at the two ends of Lansdowne Passage (a near cut from Curzon
Street to Hay Hill) were put up late in the last century, in consequence of a mounted highwayman,
who had committed a robbery in Piccadilly, having escaped from his pursuers through this narrow
passage by riding his horse up the steps. This anecdote was told by the late Thomas Grenville
to Sir Thomas Frankland Lewis. It occurred while George Grenville was Minister, the robber
passing his residence in Bolton Street full gallop."

