"Life's been pretty good to me. I've lived a long time. And I've done a lot. Made a lot of
money, and didn't get beyond the third grade.[5] Can't cultivate the garden now. My wife does
well enough to take care of the yard. She's a good woman, my wife is.

"So you're going to Fayetteville to see Miss Adeline? I remember Miss Adeline.[6] She worked
for your pappy's brother didn't she. Yes, I knowed her well. I liked her.

"Yes miss, I'm sort of tired. It's hard to think. And I can't move about much. But I got my
home and I got my wife and we're comfortable. Thank you."

Interviewer's note:

I left him sitting and rocking gently in a home-made hickory stationary swing eyes half closed
looking out across his yard and basking in the warm sunshine of late afternoon.

FOOTNOTES:

[1] Units of Hot Springs National Park.

[2] Spot without soil or vegetation--broken talus rock.

[3] Home clean, well painted and cared for, two story, large lot. Rental cottage, good condition,
negro neighborhood.

[4] Bank owned and operated for and by negroes--affiliated with headquarters of large national
negro lodge.

[5] No public schools in Hot Springs until the late 70s.

[6] The Adeline Blakely of another Arkansas interview with slaves.

  Interviewer: Miss Irene Robertson
  Person interviewed: Jake Goodridge
                      Clarendon, Arkansas
  Age: 97? 87 is about correct
  Born August 4, 1857

"I was born close to Jackson, Tennessee in Madison County. My master was Hatford Weathers.
His wife's name was Susan Weathers. They had a big family--John, Lidy, Mattie, Polly, Betty,
and Jimmy, that I recollect and there might er been some more.

"My parents' names was Narcissus and Jacob Goodridge. I had one brother that was a Yankee soldier,
and five sisters. One sister did live in Texas. They all dead fur as I know. We got scattered.
Some of us got inherited fore freedom. Jake Goodridge took me along when he went to the army
to wait on him. Right there it was me an' my brother fightin' agin one 'nother.

"When we come to St. Charles we come to Memphis on freight boxes--no tops--flat cars like.
There a heap more soldiers was waiting. We got on a boat--a great big boat. There was one regiment--Indiana
Cavalry, one Kansas, one Missouri, one Illinois. All on deck was the horses. There was 1,200
men in a regiment and four regiments, 4,800 horses and four cannons. There was not settin'
down room on the boat. They captured my master and sent him to prison. First they put him in
a callaboose and then they sent him on to prison and they took me to help them. They made a
waitin' boy of me. I didn't lack none of 'em. They cussed all the time. I heard they paroled
my master long time after the war.

"They would shoot a cannon, had a sponge on a long rod. They wipe it out and put in another
big ball, get way back and pull a rope. The cannon fire agin. Course I was scared. I was scared
to death bout two years, that 'bout how long I was in the war. I was twelve or fourteen years
old. I recollect it as well as if it was yesterday. They never had a battle at St. Charles
while I was there. They loaded up the boat and took us to Little Rock. They mustered out there.
The Yankee soldiers give out news of freedom. They was shouting 'round. I jes' stood around
to see whut they goiner do next. Didn't nobody give me nuthin'. I didn't know what to do. Everything
going. Tents all gone, no place to go stay and nothin' to eat. That was the big freedom to
us colored folks. That the way white folks fightin' do the colored folks. I got hungry and
naked and cold many a time. I had a good master and I thought he always treated me heap better
than that. I wanted to go back but I had no way. I made it down to St. Charles in 'bout a year
after the surrender. I started farmin'. I been farmin' ever since. In Little Rock I found a
job in a tin pin alley, pickin' up balls. The man paid me $12 a month, next to starvation.
I think his name was Warren Rogers.

"I went to Indian Bay 'bout 1868 and farmed for Mr. Hathway, then Mr. Duncan. Then I come up
to Clarendon and been here ever since.

"One time I owned 40 acres at Holly Grove, sold it, spent the money.

"I too old, I don't fool wid no votin'. I never did take a big stock in sich foolishness.

"I live wid my daughter and white folks. The Welfare give me $8 a month. We got a garden. No
cow. No hog. No chickens.

"The present conditions seem pretty bad. Some do work and some don't work. Nobody savin' that
I sees. Takes it all to live on. I haben't give the present generation a thought."

  Interviewer: Miss Irene Robertson
  Person interviewed: John Goodson (Goodrum)
                      Des Arc, Arkansas
  Age: Born in 1865

"My master was Bill Goodrum. I was born at Des Arc out in the country close by here. My mother
was a house woman and my father was overseer. I was so little I don't remember the war. I do
remember Doc Rayburn. I seed him and remember him all right. He was a bushwacker and a Ku Klux
they said. I don't remember the Ku Klux. Never seed them.

"I heard my parents say they expected the government to divide up the land and give them a
start--a home and some land. They got just turned out like you turn a hog out the pen and say
go on I'm through wid you.

"I heard them set till midnight talking 'bout whut all took place during the Civil War. The
country was wild and it was a long ways between the houses. There wasn't many colored folks
in this country till closin' of the war. They started bringing 'em here. Men whut needed help
on the farms.

"All my life I been cooking. I cooked at hotels and on boats. I cooked some in restaurants.
They say it was the heat caused me to go blind. I cooked up till 1927. The last folks I cooked
for was on a boat for Heckles and Wade Sales up at Augusta, Arkansas. I done carpentry work
some when I was off of a cooking job. I never liked farmin' much. I have done a little of that
along between times too. My main job is cooking.

"I voted along when I could see. I ain't voted lately. I sho lacks this President.

"I had a house and lot--this one, but I couldn't pay taxes. We still living in it. We got a
garden. No hog, no cow. We made our home when I cooked and my wife washed and ironed.

"I think this new generation of colored folks is awful. They can get work if they would do
it. Times is gettin' worse. They work some if the price suit 'em, if it don't, they steal.
They spend 'bout all they make for shows, whiskey and I don't know whut all.

"The Social Welfare gives me $8 a month. My wife does all the washing and ironin' she can get.
We are doing very well.

"I don't understand much 'bout votin' and picking out canidates. It don't hurt if the women
want to vote.

"Only songs I ever heard was corn songs. I don't remember none. They make 'em up out in the
fields. Some folks good at making up songs. One I used to hear a whole heap was 'It goiner
be a hot time in the old time tonite.' Another one 'If you liker me liker I liker you. We both
liker the same.' I don't remember no more them songs. I used to hear 'em a whole lots. Yes
out in the fields."

EDITOR'S NOTE: Pages 58 to 62 have been withdrawn after numbering.

  Interviewer: Thomas Elmore Lucy
  Person interviewed: George Govan
                      Russellville, Arkansas
  Age: 52

"George Govan is my name, and I was born in Conway County somewheres in December 1886--I guess
it was about de seventeenth of December. We lived there till 1911, when I come to Pope County.
Both my parents was slaves on de plantation of a Mr. Govan near Charleston, South Carolina.
Dat's where we got our name. Folks come to Arkansas after dey was freed. No sir, I ain't edicated--never
had de chance. Parents been dead a good many years.

"Yas suh, my folks used to talk a heap and tell me lots of tales of slavery days, and how de
patrollers used to whip em when dey wanted to go some place and didn't have de demit to go.
Yas suh, dey had to have a demit to go any place outside work hours. Dey whipped my mother
and father both sometimes, and dey sure was afraid of dem patrollers. Used to say, 'If you
don't watch out de patrollers'll git you.' Dey'd catch de slaves and tie em up to a tree or
a pos' and whip em wid buggy whips and rawhides.

"Some of de slaves was promised land and other things when dey was freed, and some wasn't promised
nothin'. Some got land and a span of mules, and some didn't get nothin'. No suh, my daddy didn't
farm none at first after he was freed because he didn't have no money to buy land, but he done
odd jobs here and there till he come to Arkansas seven or eight years after the War.

"Yes, I owns my own home; been livin' in it for ten years, since I've been workin' as janitor
at dis Central Presbyterian Church. I belongs to de Missionary Baptis' Church, but my parents
were both Methodists.

"Sure did have lots of good songs in de old days, like 'Old Ship of Zion' and 'On Jordan's
Stormy Banks.' Used to have one that begins 'Those that 'fuse to sing never knew my God.' It
was a purty piece; and then there was another one about a 'Rough, rocky road.'

"De young people today has much better opportunities than when I was a child, and much better
than dey had in slavery days, because dar ain't no patrollers to whip em. Most of em dese days
has purty good behavior, and I think dey're better than in de old days.

"I has always voted regularly since I come of age--votes de Republican ticket. Can't read but
a little, but I never had any trouble about votin'."

NOTE: George Govan is an intelligent Negro, fairly neat in his dress, very tall and erect in
stature. Brogue quite noticeable, and occasional idioms that make his interview interesting
and personal.

  #712
  Interviewer: Mrs. Bernice Bowden
  Person interviewed: Julia Grace
                      819 N. Spruce Street, Pine Bluff, Arkansas
  Age: 75

"I was seventy-four this last past fourth of July. I was born in Texas. My mother was sent
to Texas to keep from bein' freed.

"Ad March and Spruce McCrary is the onliest white folks I remember bein' with. I don't know
whether they was our owners or not.

"My father was sent to North Carolina and I never did see him no more.

"After freedom they brought us back here from Texas and we worked on the McCrary plantation.

"In slavery days mama said she and my father stayed in the woods most of the time. That's when
they was whippin' 'em.

"My mother come from Richmond, Virginia. Petersburg was her town. She belonged to the Wellses
over there.

"After her master got his leg broke, the rest was so mean to her she run off a couple times,
so they sold her. Put her up on the tradin' block--like goin' to make a speech. Stripped 'em
naked. The man bid 'em off like you'd bid off oxen.

"Mama told me her missis, after her husband died, got so mean to her she run off till her old
missis sold her. They weighed 'em and stripped 'em naked to see if they was anything wrong
with 'em and how they was built and then bid 'em off.

"Mama said she never would a been in Arkansas if they hadn't been so mean to her. They were
too compulsive on 'em--you know, hard taskmasters.

"After freedom Ad March went back to North Carolina and Spruce McCrary come here to Pine Bluff.

"Fust time I moved here in town was in 1888. I stayed ten months, then I went back to the country.
I aimed to go to Fort Smith but I got to talkin' with my playmates and I didn't have too much
money, and I stayed till I didn't have enough money left to keep me till I could get a job.
So I stayed here and worked for Mrs. Freemayer till I got so I couldn't work. She's the one
got me on this relief.

"I went to school one session in 1886. Sam Caeser, he was a well-known teacher. He got killed
here in Pine Bluff.

"I can't sweep and I can't iron. I got a misery in my back. I washes my clothes and spreads
'em out till they dry. Then I puts 'em on and switches into church and ever'body thinks they
has been ironed.

"They ain't but one sign I believes in and that's peckerwoods. Just as sure as he pecks three
times, somebody goin' to move or somebody goin' to die. Just as sure as you live somebody goin'
out.

"One time one of my grandchildren and a friend of mine was walkin' through the woods and we
missed the main road we aimed to ketch, and we got into a den of wild hogs. I said, 'Lord,
make 'em stand still till we get out of here.' One of 'em was that tall and big long ears hung
down over his eyes. That was the male, you know. I reckon they couldn't see us and we walked
as easy as we could and we got away and struck the main road. I reckon if they could a seen
us we would a been 'tacked but we got away. I had heard how they made people take to trees,
and I was scared.

"Have you ever seen a three-legged cow? Well, I have. I looked at her good. She was grown and
had a calf."

  --- 11 1938
  Interviewer: Samuel S. Taylor
  Person interviewed: Charles Graham
                      616 W. 27th Street, North Little Rock, Arkansas
  Age: 79
  [HW: [Freed in '63]]

"I was born September 27, 1859, Clarksville, Tennessee. I don't remember the county. There
are several Clarksvilles throughout the South. But Clarksville, Tennessee is the first and
the oldest.

"I got a chance to see troops after the Civil War was over. The soldiers were playing, boxing,
and the like. Then I remember hearing the cannons roar--long toms they used to call 'em. My
uncle said, 'That is General Grant opening fire on the Rebels.'

"The first clear thing I remember was when everybody was rejoicing because they were free.
The soldiers were playing and boxing and chucking watermelons at one another. They had great
long guns called muskets. I heard 'em say that Abraham Lincoln had turned 'em loose. Where
I was at, they turned 'em loose in '63. Lincoln was assassinated in '65. I heard that the morning
after it was done. We was turned loose long before then.

"I was too young to pay much attention, but they were cutting up and clapping their hands and
carrying on something terrible, and shouting, 'Free, free, old Abraham done turned us loose.'

"I was here in them days! Heard those long toms roar! General Grant shelling the Rebels!"

Patrollers

"I don't remember much about the patrollers except that when they been having dances, and some
of them didn't have passes, they'd get chased and run. If they would get catched, them that
didn't have passes would get whipped. Them that had them, they were all right."

Amusements

"They had barbecues. That's where the barbecues started from, I reckon, from the barbecues
among the slaves.

"They would have corn shuckings. They would have a whole lot of corn to shuck, and they would
give the corn shucking and the barbecue together. They would shuck as many as three or four
hundred bushels of corn in a night. Sometimes, they would race one another. So you know that
they must have been some shucking done.

"I don't believe that I know of anything else. People were ignorant in those days and didn't
have many amusements."

Occupations

"I used to be a regular miller until they laid the men off. Now I don't have no kind of job
at all."

Right after the War

"Some of the slaves went right up North. We stayed in Clarksville and worked there for a year
or two. In 1864, we went to Warren County, Illinois. They put me in school. My people were
just common laborers. They bought themselves a nice little home.

"My mother's name was Anna Bailis and my father's name was Charles Morrill. I don't remember
the names of their masters.

"I was raised by my uncle, Simon Blair. His master used to be a Bailis. My father, so I was
told, went off and left my mother. She was weak and ailing, so my uncle took me. He took me
away from her and carried me up North with them. My father ran away before the slaves were
freed. I never found out what became of him.

"I stayed in Illinois from the time I was five or six years old up until I was twenty-one.
I left there in 1880. That is about the time when Garfield ran for President. I was in Ohio,
seen him before he was assassinated in 1882. Garfield and Arthur ran against Hancock and English.
They beat 'em too."

Little Rock

"I used to go from place to place working first one place and then another--going down the
Mississippi on boats. Monmouth, Illinois, where I was raised--they ain't nothing to that place.
Just a dry little town!"

Opinions

"The young people nowadays are all right. There is not so much ignorance now as there was in
those days. There was ignorance all over then. The Peckerwoods wasn't much wise either. They
know nowadays though. Our race has done well in refinement.

"I find that the Negro is more appreciated in politics in the North and West than in the South.
I don't know whether it will grow better or not.

"I'll tell you something else. The best of these white people down here don't feel so friendly
toward the North."

  Interviewer: Samuel S. Taylor
  Person interviewed: James Graham
                      408 Maple Street, Little Rock, Arkansas
  Age: 75
  [HW: ["Free Negroes"]]

"I was born in South Carolina, Lancaster County, about nine miles from Lancaster town. My father's
name was Tillman Graham and my mother's name was Eliza.

"I have seen my grandfathers, but I forget their names now. My father was a farmer. My father
and mother belonged to this people, that is, to the Tillmans.

"On my father's side, they called my people free Negroes because they treated them so good.
On my mother's side they had to get their education privately. When the white children would
come from school, my mother's people would get instruction from them. My mother was a maid
in the house and it was easy for her to get training that way."

  Interviewer: Mrs. Bernice Bowden
  Person interviewed: Marthala Grant
                      2203 E. Barraque, Pine Bluff, Arkansas
  Age: 77

"All I can remember is some men throwin' us up in the air and ketchin' us, me and my baby brother.
Like to scared me to death. They had on funny clothes. Me and my brother was out in the yard
playin'. They just grabbed us up and throwed us up and ketched us.

"My mother would tell us bout the war. She had on some old shoes--wooden shoes. Her white folks
name was Hines. That was in North Carolina. I emigrated here when they was emigratin' folks
here. I was grown then.

"Durin' the war I heered the shootin' and the people clappin' their hands.

"My mother said they was fightin' to free the people but I didn't know what freedom was. I
member hearin' em whoopin' and hollerin' when peace was 'clared and talkin' bout it.

"Yes'm I went to school some--not much. I learned a right smart to read but not much writin'.

"We'd go up to the white folks house every Sunday evenin' and old mistress would learn us our
catechism. We'd have to comb our heads and clean up and go up every Sunday evenin'. She'd line
us up and learn us our catechism.

"We stayed right on there after the war. They paid my mother. I picked cotton and nussed babies
and washed dishes.

"I was married when I was twenty. Never been married but once and my husband been dead nigh
bout twenty years."

"When I come here this town wasn't much--sure wasn't much. Used to have old car pulled by mules
and a colored man had that--old Wiley Jones. He's dead now.

"I had eleven childen. All dead but five. My boy what's up North went to that Spanish War.
He stayed till peace was declared.

"After we come to Arkansas my husband voted every year and worked the county roads. I guess
he voted Republican.

"I can't tell you bout the younger generation. They so fast you can't keep up with them. I
really can't tell you."

  #731
  Interviewer: Samuel S. Taylor
  Person interviewed: Wesley Graves
                      817 Hickory Street, North Little Rock, Arkansas
  Age: 70
  [HW: [Father Taught Night School]]

"My father's white folks were named Tal Graves. My mother was a McAdoo. Her white folks were
McAdoos. Some of them are over the river now. He's a great jewelryman now.

"I was born in Trenton, Tennessee. My father was born 'round in Humboldt, Tennessee. My mother
was born in Paris, Tennessee and moved out in the country near Humboldt. He met my mother out
there and married her just a little bit before the War. He was a slave and she was too.

"He didn't go to the War; he went to the woods. He got to chasing 'round. His young mistress
married. She married a Graves. That was the name we was freed under. She was a Shane.

"She educated my father. When she come from school, she would teach him and just carry him
right on through the course that way. That was a good while before the War. Her father gave
him to her when she married Graves. He was a little boy and she kept him and educated him.
Graves ran a farm. I don't know just what my father did when he was little. He was raised up
as a house boy. Very little he ever done in the field. I don't know what he did after he grew
up and before freedom came. After peace was declared, he taught in night school. He preached
too. His first farming was done a little after he come out here. I was about seven years old
then. That was in the year 1873.

"My mother's full name was Adeline McAdoo. Before freedom she did housework. She was a kind
a pet with the white folks. She didn't do much farming. My mother and father had six children--five
boys and one girl. All born after freedom. There were three ahead of me. The oldest was born
before the War, not afterward.

"In my country where I was raised the Negroes weren't freed until 1865. My uncle, Jim Shane--that
is the only name I ever knew him by--, he ran away and come to this country and made money
enough to come back and buy his freedom. Just about time he got himself paid for, the War closed
and he would have been freed anyway. The money wouldn't have done him no good anyhow because
it was all Confederate money, and when the War closed, that wasn't no good.

"My father ran away when the War broke out. His master wanted to carry him to the army with
him and he run off and stayed in the woods three years. He stayed until his little mistress
wrote him a letter and told him she would set him free if he would come home. He stayed out
till the War closed. He wouldn't take no chances on it.

"The pateroles made my father do everything but quit. They got him about teaching night school.
That was after slavery, but the pateroles still got after you. They didn't want him teaching
the Negroes right after the War. He had opened a night school, and he was doing well. They
just kept him in the woods then."

Ku Klux

"There was a bunch of Ku Klux that a colored man led. He was a fellow by the name of Fount
Howard. They would come to his house and he would call himself showing them how to catch old
people he didn't like. He told them how to catch my old man. I have heard my mother tell about
it time and time again. The funny part of it was there was a cornfield right back of the kitchen.
Just about dusk dark, he got up and taken a big old horse pistol and shot out of it, and when
he fired the last shot out of it, a white man said, 'Bring that gun here.' Believe me he cut
a road through that field right now.

"They stayed 'round for a little while and tried to bully his people. But the old lady stood
up to them, so they finally carried her and her children in the house and told her to tell
him to come on back they wouldn't hurt him. And they didn't bother him no more.

"My mother's master told my mother that she was free. He called all the slaves in and told
them they were free as he was. I don't think he give them anything when they were freed. He
was a kind a poor fellow. Didn't have but six or seven slaves. He offered to let them stay
and make crops. My father had a better job than that. Did you ever know Bishop Lane out in
Tennessee? My father and he were ordained at the same time in the some C. M. E. Church. Then
he moved to Kentucky and joined the A. M. E. Church. My father died in 1875 and my mother in 1906.

"I have been married forty-seven years. I married on the twenty-sixth day of December in 1889.
I heard my mother and father say that they married in slavery time and they just jumped over
a broom. I don't belong to no church. I am off on a pension. I got a good job doin' nothing.
My pension is paid by the Railroad.

"I put up forty-four years as a brakeman and five years on ditching trains before I went to
braking. My old road master put me on the braking. A fellow got his fingers cut off and they
turned his keys over to me and put me to braking and I went there and stayed.

"I have two children. Both of them are living--a girl and a boy. I have had a big bunch of
young people 'round me ever since I married. Raised a couple of nephews. Then my two. All of
them married. That is my daughter's oldest child right there. (He pointed to a pretty brownskin
girl--ed.)

"My father died when I was eight, and I was away from home railroading most of the time and
didn't hear much about old times from my mother. So that's all I know.

"I have lived right here on this spot for forty-three years. About 1893 I bought this place
and have lived here ever since. This was just a big woods and weed patch then. There weren't
more than about six houses out here this side of the Rock Island Railroad.

"I commenced voting in 1889. Cast my first ballot then. I never had any trouble about it."

  Interviewer: Miss Irene Robertson
  Person interviewed: Ambus Gray
                      R.F.D. #1. Biscoe, Arkansas
  Age: 80

"I was ten year old when the Civil War come on. I was born Tallapoosy County, Alabama. I belong
to Jim Gray. I recollect the paddyrollers. I don't recollect the Ku Klux Klan. There was twelve
boys and two girls in our family in time. I was among the older set.

"Bout all I remembers bout slavery was how hard the hands had to work. We sho did haf to work!
When we wasn't clerin new ground and rollin pine logs an burnin brush we was er buildin fences
and shuckin an shellin corn. Woman you don't know nufin bout work! We cler new groun all day
den burn brush and pile logs at nite. We build fences all day and kill hogs and shuck corn
dat night. No use to say word bout bein tired. Never heard nobody complainin. They went right
on singin or whislin'. Started out plowin and drappin corn then plantin' cotton. Choppin' time
come on then pullin' fodder and layin' by time be on. Be bout big meetin time and bout fo that
or was over everybody was dun in the cotton field till dun cold weather. I remembers how they
sho did work.

"Both my parents was field hands. They stayed on two years after the war was over. Jim Gray
raised red hogs and red corn, whooper-will peas. He kept a whole heap of goats and a flock
of sheep.

"We didn't see no real hard times after the war. We went to Georgia to work on Armstrongs farm.
We didn't stay there long. We went to Atlanta and met a fellar huntin' hands down at Sardis,
Mississippi. We come on there. Rob Richardson brought the family out here. I been here round
Biscoe 58 years when it was sho nuf swamps and woods.

"I don't think the Ku Klux ever got after any us but I seen em, I recken. I don't know but
mighty little. The paddyrollers is what I dreaded. Sometime the overseer was a paddyroller.
My folks didn't go to war. We didn't know what the war was for till it had been going on a
year or so. The news got circulated round the North was fighting to give the black man freedom.
Some of em thought they said that so they'd follow and get in the lines, help out. Some did
go long, some didn't want to go get killed. Nobody never got nuthin, didn't know much when
it was freedom. I didn't see much difference for a year or more. We gradually quit gettin'
provisions up at the house and had to take a wagon and team and go buy what we had. We didn't
have near as much. Money then like it is now, it don't buy much. It made one difference. You
could change places and work for different men. They had overseers just the same as they did
in slavery.

"The Reconstruction time was like this. You go up to a man and tell him you and your family
want to hire fer next year on his place. He say I'm broke, the war broke me. Move down there
in the best empty house you find. You can get your provisions furnished at certain little store
in the closest town about. You say yesser. When the crop made bout all you got was a little
money to take to give the man what run you and you have to stay on or starve or go get somebody
else let you share crop wid them. As the time come on the black man gets to handle a little
mo silver and greenbacks than he used to. Slaves didn't hardly ever handle any money long as
he live. He never buy nothin, he have no use for money. White folks burried money durin the
war. Some of them had a heap of money.

"I have voted but I don't keep up wid it no mo. It been a long time since I voted. This is
the white folks country an they goiner run it theirselves. No usen me vote. No use the women
votin as I see it. Jes makes mo votes to count. The rich white man is goiner run the country
anyhow.

"I farmed all my life. I been here in Biscoe fifty-eight years. I worked for Richardson, Biscoe,
Peeples, Nail. I owned a home, paid $150 for it. I made it in three years when we had good crops.

"Times are harder now than I ever seen em here. If you have a hog you have to pen it up and
buy feed. If you have a cow, when the grass die, she is to feed. If you have chickens there
ain't no use talkin, they starve if you don't feed em. No money to buy em wid an no money to
buy feed for em. Times is hard. Durin the cotton boom times do fine (cotton picking time).
The young folks is happy. They ain't got no thought of the future. Mighty hard to make young
folks think they ever get old. Theys lookin at right now. Havin em a good time while they young."

  Interviewer: Miss Irene Robertson
  Person interviewed: Green Gray
                      R.F.D. #1 Biscoe, Arkansas
  Age: 70--73?

"I was born after de war in Alabama. Then we went to Atlanta, Georgia. Bout the first I recollect
much bout was in Atlanta. I was seventeen years old. They was building the town back up where
it had been burnt. If you was a carpenter you could get rough work to do. My father was a farmer
and had a family; soon as he could he come with a man he met up wid to Sardis, Mississippi.
He had twelve children. Some of em born down in Mississippi. The reason we all went to Atlanta
was dis--we was workin fer a man, white man, named Armstrom. White woman told me go do somethin,
bring in a load er wood I think it was, and my mother told me not to do it. He and my father
had a fuss an he tied my father to some rails and whooped him. Soon as they done that we all
left. They hunted us all night long. Crowd white folks said they goiner kill us. Some fellow
come on to Atlanta and told us bout em huntin us. Thater way folks done. It muster been bout
the very closin of the war cause I heard em say I was give to my young mistress, Sallie Gray.
I don't remember who they say she married. I never did live wid em long fore my papa took me.

"The first free school was in Pinola County, Mississippi. I went to it. The teacher was a white
man named George Holliday.

"I votes a Republican ticket. Miss, I don't know nothin much bout votin, cassionly I vote to
help my side out a little. We used to elect our town officers here in Biscoe but the white
folks run it now. Professor Hardy and Professor Walker was the postmasters (both Negroes) for
a long while. John Clay was constable and Oscar Clark magistrate (both Negroes). One of the
school board was Dr. Odom (Negro). They made pretty fair officers.

"I was a cow herder, and a fire boy, and a farmer. When I come to Biscoe I was a farmer. I
married and had two children. My wife lef me and went wid another fellar then she jumped in
the river right down yonder and drowned. I started workin at the sawmill and workin in the
lumber. I owns a little home and a spot of ground it on 25' × 90'. I made it workin fer Mr.
Betzner (white farmer). I'm farmin now.

"Times is hard. You can't get no credit. Between times that you work in the crop it is hard
to live. Used to by workin hard and long hours could make a good livin. Wages better now, $1
to $1.75 a day. Long time ago 60¢ a day was the price. Then you could buy meat five and six
cents a pound. Now it 20¢. Flour used to be 40¢ a sack. Now it way outer sight. The young folks
don't work hard as I used to work but they has a heap better chance at edgercation. Some few
saves a little but everything jes so high they can't get ahead very much. It when you get old
you needs a little laid by."

  #666
  Interviewer: Mrs. Bernice Bowden
  Person interviewed: Neely Gray
                      818 E. Fifteenth, Pine Bluff, Arkansas
  Age: 87

"I was born in Virginia. Dr. Jenkins bought my mother from a man named Norman. Brought us here
on the boat. I know I was walkin' and talkin'. I don't remember about the trip, but I remember
they said they had to keep me out from fallin' in the river. I was too playified to remember
anything about it.

"Durin' the War I was a girl six or seven years old. Big enough to nuss my mother's next chile,
and she was walkin' and talkin' 'fore surrender.

"My mother was pushin' a hundred when she died. I was her oldest chile. Sold with her.

"Dr. Jenkins had three women and all of 'em had girls. Raised up in the house. Dr. Jenkins
said, 'Doggone it, I want my darkies right back of my chair.' He never did 'buse his colored
folks. He was a 'cepted (exceptional) man--so different. I never saw the inside of the quarters.

"Dr. Jenkins' house wasn't far from the river. You could hear the boats goin' up and down all
night.

"I was scared of the Yankees 'cause they always p'inted a gun at me to see me run. They'd come
in the yard and take anything they wanted, too.

"After surrender mama went and cooked for a man named Hardin.

"Hardest time I ever had was when I got grown and had to take care of my mother and sister.
Worked in the field.

"I was married out from behind a plow. Never farmed no more.

"My fust husband was a railroad man. I tried to keep up with him but he went too fast; I couldn't
keep up. He got so bad they finally black-balled him from the road.

"I tell you nobody knows what it is till you go through with it. I've had my bitters with the
sweet.

"Been married four times and I've buried two husbands. I just raised one chile and now she's
dead. But I got great-grandchillun--third generation--in Houston, Texas, but I never hear from 'em.

"I get along all right. The Welfare helps me and I try to live right."

  Interviewer: Mrs. Bernice Bowden
  Person interviewed: Nely Gray
                      821 E. 18th Avenue, Pine Bluff, Arkansas
  Age: 84
  Occupation: Does a little quilting

