2.  For, as Calvin says somewhere, though our sins against the first table of the law are our
worst sins, yet our sins against the second table, that is, against our neighbours, are far
better for beginning a scrutiny with.  So they are.  For our wrongs against our neighbours,
when they awaken within us at all, awaken with a terrible fury.  Our wrongs against our neighbours
wound, and burden, and exasperate an awakened conscience in a fearful way.  We come afterwards
to say, Against Thee, Thee only have I sinned!  But at the first beginning of our repentances
it is the wrongs we have done to our neighbours that drive us beside ourselves.  What neighbour
of yours, then, have you so wronged?  Name him; name her.  You avoid that name like poison,
but it is not poison--it is life and peace. More depends on your often recollecting and often
pronouncing that hateful name than you would believe.  More depends upon it than your minister
has ever told you.  And, then, in what did you so wrong him? Name the wrong also.  Give it
its Bible name, its newspaper name, its brutal, vulgar, ill-mannered name.  Do not be too soft,
do not be too courtly with yourself.  Keep your own evil name ever before you.  When you hear
any other man outlawed and ostracised by that same name, say to yourself: Thou, sir, art the
man!  Put out a secret and a painful skill upon yourself.  Have times and places and ways that
nobody knows anything about--not even those you have wronged; have times and places and ways
they would laugh to be told of, and would not believe it; times, I say, and places and ways
for bringing all those old wrongs you once did ever and ever back to mind; as often back and
as keen to your mind as they come back to that other mind, which is still so full of the wrong.
Even if your victim has forgiven and forgotten you, never you forget him, and never you forgive
yourself when you again think of him.  Welcome back every sudden and sharp recollection of
your wrong-doing.  And make haste at every such sudden recollection and fall down on the spot
in a deeper compunction than ever before.  Do that as you would be a forgiven and full-chartered
soul.  For, free and full and everlasting as God's forgiveness is, you have no assurance that
it is yours if you ever forget your sin, or ever forgive yourself for having done it.  'Forgive
yourself,' says Augustine, 'and God will condemn you.  But continually arraign and condemn
yourself, and God will forgive and acquit and justify you.'

3.  Kind-hearted men comfort and console those who have suffered injuries and wrongs at our
hands, but the kindest-hearted of men harden their hearts and set their faces like a flint
against us who have done the wrong.  All Syria sympathised with Esau for the loss of his birthright,
but I do not read that any one came to whisper one kind word to Jacob on his hard pillow. 
All the army mourned over Uriah, but all the time David's moisture was dried up like the drought
of summer, and not even Nathan came to the King till he could not help coming.  All Jericho
cried, Avenge us of our adversary!  But it was Jesus who looked up and saw Zaccheus and said:
Zaccheus, come down; make haste and come down, for to-day I must abide at thy house.  'The
injuries they have done themselves also,' so runs the very first head of our forgiveness covenant.
Ah! yes; O my Lord, Thou knowest all things; Thou knowest my heart.  Thou knowest that irremediably
as I have injured other men, yet in injuring them I have injured myself much more.  And much
as other men need restitution, reparation, and consolation on my account, my God, Thou knowest
that I need all that much more--ten thousand times more.  Oh, how my broken heart within me
leaps up and thanks Thee for that Covenant.  Let me repeat it again to Thy praise: 'Full, free,
and everlasting forgiveness of all wrongs, injuries, and offences done by him against his neighbours
and against himself.'  Who, who is a God, O my God, who is a God like unto Thee!

4.  That is to say, we shall be made both willing and able to grant to all those men who have
wronged us the very same charter of forgiveness that we have had granted to us of God.  So
that at all those times when we stand praying for forgiveness we shall suspend that prayer
till we have first forgiven all our enemies, and all who have at any time and in any way wronged
or injured us.  Even when we had the Communion cup at our lips to-day, you would have seen
us setting it down till we had first gone and been reconciled to our brother.  Yes, my brethren,
you are His witnesses that He has done it.  He has taken you into His covenant till He has
made you both able and willing, both willing and able, to grant and to bequeath to others,
all that free, full, and everlasting forgiveness and love that He has bequeathed to you.  Till
under the very last and supreme wrong that your worst enemy can do to you and to yours, you
are able and forward to say: Father, forgive him, for he knows not what he has done.  Forgive
me my debts, you will say, as I forgive my debtors.  Only, it is too high for us; we cannot
attain to it.  Has any human being ever risen to anything like the full faith, full assurance,
and full victory of all that in this life?  No; the thing is impossible!  Reason would fall
off her throne.  The heart of a man would break with too much joy if he tried to enter into
the full belief of all that.  No; it hath not entered into the heart of a still sinful man
what God hath chartered to them whom He loves.  This world, and all that therein is, and then
all the coming benefits of life and of death.  What benefits do believers receive from Christ
at their death?  We all drank in the answer to that with our mother's milk, but what is behind
the words of that answer no mortal tongue can yet tell.

6.  'And till the glory breaks suddenly upon you, and as long as you yet live in this life
of free grace I shall give and grant you leave and free access to Me in My palace at all seasons,
there to make known all your wants to Me; and I give you, moreover, a promise that I will hear
and redress all your grievances.'  At all seasons; in season and out of season.  There to make
known all your wants to Me.  And all your grievances.  All that still grieves and vexes you.
All your wrongs.  All your injuries.  All that men can do to you.  Let them do their worst
to you.  My grace is sufficient for all your grievances.  My goodness in you shall make you
more than a conqueror.  I undertake to give you before you have asked for it a heart full of
free, full, and everlasting forgiveness and forgetfulness of all that has begun to grieve you.
No word or deed, written or spoken, of any man shall be able to vex or grieve the spirit that
I shall put within you.  You will immediately avenge yourselves of your adversaries.  You will
instantly repay them all an hundredfold.  For, when thine enemy hungers, thou shalt feed him;
when he is athirst, thou shalt give him drink.  For thou shalt not be overcome of evil, but
thou shalt overcome evil with good.

7.  'All these grants, privileges, and immunities I bestow upon thee; upon thee, I say, and
upon thy right seed after thee.'  O Almighty God, our Heavenly Father, give us such a seed!
Give us a seed right with Thee!  Smite us and our house with everlasting barrenness rather
than that our seed should not be right with Thee.  O God, give us our children.  Give us our
children.  A second time, and by a far better birth, give us our children to be beside us in
Thy holy Covenant.  For it had been better we had never been born; it had been better we had
never been betrothed; it had been better we had sat all our days solitary unless all our children
are to be right with Thee.  Let the day perish, and the night wherein it was said, There is
a man-child conceived.  Let that day be darkness; let not God regard it from above; neither
let the light shine upon it, unless all our house is yet to be right with God.  But thou, O
God, art Thyself a Father, and thus hast in Thyself a Father's heart.  Hear us, then, for our
children, O our Father, for such of our children as are not yet right with Thee!  And then
how we and all our saved seed beside us shall praise Thee and bless Thee above all the families
on earth or in heaven, and shall say: Unto Him who loved us and washed us from our sins in
His own blood, and hath bestowed upon us a free, full, and everlasting forgiveness, and hath
made us partakers of His Divine Nature, to Him be our love and praise and service to all eternity.
Amen and Amen!

CHAPTER XXVIII--EMMANUEL'S LAST CHARGE TO MANSOUL: CONCERNING THE REMAINDERS OF SIN IN THE
REGENERATE

   'Hold fast till I come.'--Our Lord.

There are many fine things in Emmanuel's last charge to Mansoul, but by far the best thing
is the answer that He Himself there supplies to this deep and difficult question,--to this
question, namely, Why original sin is still left to rage in the truly regenerate?  Why does
our Lord not wholly extirpate sin in our regeneration?  What can His reason be for leaving
their original sin to dwell in His best saints till the day of their death?  For, to use His
own sad words about sin in His last charge, nothing hurts us but sin.  Nothing defiles and
debases us but sin.  Why, then, does He not take our sin clean out of us at once?  He could
speak the word of complete deliverance if He only would.  Why, then, does He not speak that
word?  That has been a mystery and a grief to all God's saints ever since sanctification began
to be.  And the great interest and the great value of Emmanuel's last charge to Mansoul stands
in this, that He here tells us, if not all, then at least some of His reasons for the policy
He pursues with us in our sanctification.  Dost thou know, He asks, as He stands on His chariot
steps, surrounded with His captains on the right hand and the left--Dost thou know why I at
first did, and do still, suffer sin to live and dwell and harbour in thy heart?  And then,
after an O yes! for silence, the Prince began and thus proceeded:

1.  Dost thou ask at Me why I and My Father have seen it good to allow the dregs of thy sinfulness
still to corrupt and to rot in thine heart? Dost thou ask why, amid so much in thee that is
regenerate, there is still so much more that is unregenerate?  Why, while thou art, without
controversy, under grace, indwelling sin still so festers and so breaks out in thee?  Dost
thou ask that?  Then, attend, and before I go away to come again I will try to tell thee, if,
indeed, thou art able and willing to bear it.  Well, then, be silent while I tell thee that
I have left all that of thy original sin in thee to tempt thee, to try thee, to humble thee,
and to thrust, day and night, upon thee, what is still in thine heart.  To humble thee, take
knowledge, take warning, and take forethought.  To make thee humble, and to keep thee humble.
To hide pride from thee, and to lay thee all thy days on earth in the dust of death.  I tell
thee this day that in all thy past life I have ordered and administered all My providences
toward thee to humble thee and to prove thee, and to make thee dust and ashes in thine own
eyes.  And I go away to carry on from heaven this same intention of My Father's and Mine toward
thee.  We shall try thee as silver is tried.  We shall sift thee as wheat is sifted.  We shall
search thee as Jerusalem is searched with lighted candles.  I tell thee the truth, I shall
bend from heaven all My power which My Father has given Me, and all My wisdom, and all My love,
and all My grace.  What to do, dost thou think?  What to do but to make thee to know and to
acknowledge the plague of thine own heart.  The deceitfulness, that is, the depth of wickedness,
and the abominableness, past all words, of thine own heart.  I do not ascend to My Father,
with all things in My hand, to make thy seat soft, and thy cup sweet, and thy name great, and
thy seed multiplied.  I have far other predestinations before Me for thee.  I have loved thee
with an everlasting love, and it is to everlasting life that I am leading thee.  And thou must
let Me lead thee through fire and through water if I am to lead thee to heaven at last.  I
shall have to utterly kill all self-love out of thy heart, and to plant all humility in its
place.  Many and dreadful discoveries shall I have to make to thee of thy profane and inhuman
self-love and selfishness.  Words will fail thee to confess all thy selfishness in thy most
penitent prayer.  Thy towering pride of heart also, and thy so contemptible vanity.  As for
thy vanity, I shall so overrule it that double-minded men about thee shall make thee and thy
vanity their sport, their jest, and their prey.  And I shall not leave thee, nor discharge
Myself of My work within thee, till I see thee loathing thyself and hating thyself and gnashing
thy teeth at thyself for thy envy of thy brother, thy envy concerning his house, his wife and
his man-servant, and his maid-servant, and his ox, and his ass, and everything that is his.
Thou shalt find something in thee that shall allow thee to see thine enemy prosper, but not
thy friend.  Something that shall keep thee from thy sleep because of his talents, his name,
his income, and his place which I have given him above thee, beside thee, and always in thy
sight. It will be something also that shall make his sickness, his decay, his defamation, and
his death sweet to thee, and his prosperity and return to life bitter to thee.  Thou shalt
have to confess something in thyself--whatever its nature and whatever its name--something
that shall make thee miserable at good news, and glad and enlarged and full of life at evil
tidings.  It will be something also that shall give a long life in thy evil heart to anger,
and to resentment, and to retaliation, and to revenge.  For after years and years thou shalt
still have it in thine heart to hate and to hurt that man and his house, because long ago he
left thy side, thy booth in the market, thy party in the state, and thy church in religion.
As I live, swore Emmanuel, standing up on the step of His ascending chariot, I shall show thee
thyself.  I shall show thee what an unclean heart is and a wicked.  I shall teach to thee what
all true saints shudder at when they are let see the plague of their own hearts.  I shall show
thee, as I live, how full of pride, and hate, and envy, and ill-will a regenerate heart can
be; and how a true-born man of God may still love evil and hate good; may still rejoice in
iniquity and pine under the truth.  I shall show thee, also, what thou wilt not as yet believe,
how thy best friend cannot trust his good name with thee; such a sweet morsel to thee shall
be the mote in his eye and the spot on his praise.  Yes, I shall show thee that I did not die
on the cross for nothing when I died for thee; when I went out to Calvary a shame and a spitting,
an outcast and a curse for thee!  Thou shalt yet arise up and fall down in thy sin and shalt
justify all my thorns, and nails, and spears, and the last drop of My blood for thee!  It is
also, the still tarrying Prince proceeded--it is also to keep thee wakeful and to make thee
watchful.  Now, what conceivable estate could any man be put into even by his Maker and Redeemer
more calculated to call forth wakefulness and watchfulness than to have one half of his heart
new and the other half old?  To have one half of his heart garrisoned by the captains of Emmanuel,
and the other half still full of the spies and the scouts and the emissaries of hell?  Nay,
to have the great bulk of his heart still full of sin and but a small part of his heart here
and there under grace and truth?  Here is material for fightings without and fears within with
a vengeance!  If it somehow suits and answers God's deep purposes with His people to teach
them watchfulness in this life, then here is a field for watchfulness, a field of divine depth
and scope and opportunity.  There used to be a divinity question set in the schools in these
terms: Where, in the regenerate, hath sin its lodging-place?  For that sin does still lodge
in the regenerate is too abundantly evident both from Scripture and from experience.  But where
it so lodges is the question.  The Dominican monks, and some others, were of opinion that original
sin is to be found only in the inferior part of the soul, but not in the mind or the will.
Which, I suppose, we shall soon find contrary both to Scripture and reason and experience.
Old Andrew Gray speaks feelingly and no less truly concerning the heart, when he says, 'I think,'
he says, 'that if all the saints since Adam's day, and who shall be to the end of the world,
had but one deceitful heart to guide they would misguide it.'  What a plot of God, then, it
is to seat grace, a little saving grace, in the midst of such a sea of corruption as a human
heart is, and then to set a sinful man to watch over that spark and to keep the boiling pollutions
of his own heart from extinguishing that spark!  And, knowing to what He has left our hearts,
well may Emmanuel say to us from His ascending steps, 'Watch ye, therefore; and what I say
unto you, I say unto all, Watch!'

3.  It is to keep thee watchful and to teach thee war also, the Prince went on.  Bishop Butler
is about the last author that we would think of going to for light on any deep and intricate
question in the evangelical and experimental life.  But Butler is so deeply seen into much
of the heart of man, as also into many of the ways of God, that even here he has something
to say to the point.  'It is vain to object,' he says in his sober and sobering way, 'that
all this trouble and danger might have been saved us by our being made at once the creatures
and the characters which we were to be.  For we experience that what we are to be is to be
the effect of what we shall do.  And that the conduct of nature is not to save us trouble and
danger, but to make us capable of going through trouble and danger, and to put it upon us to
do it.'  The Apostle Peter has the same teaching in a passage too little attended to, in which
he tells us that we are set here to work out our own salvation, and that our salvation will
just be what, with fear and trembling, or, as Butler says, with trouble and danger, we work
out.  No man, let all men understand, is to have his salvation thrust upon him.  No man need
expect to waken up at the end of an idle, indifferent, inattentive life and find his salvation
superinduced upon all that.  No man shall wear the crown of everlasting life who has not for
himself won it.  As every man soweth to the Spirit so also shall he reap.  As a soldier warreth,
so shall he hear it said to him, Well done.  If thy sins, then, are left in thee to teach thee
war, O poor saint of God, then take to thee the whole armour of God; thou knowest the pieces
of it, and where the armoury is, and, having done all, stand!

