The reader who wishes evidence may be accommodated. There was never a strike more investigated
than the Colorado coal-strike. The material about it in the writer's possession cannot be less
than eight million words, the greater part of it sworn testimony taken under government supervision.
There is, first, the report of the Congressional Committee, a government document of three
thousand closely printed pages, about two million words; an equal amount of testimony given
before the U. S. Commission on Industrial Relations, also a government document; a special
report on the Colorado strike, prepared for the same commission, a book of 189 pages, supporting
every contention of this story; about four hundred thousand words of testimony given before
a committee appointed at the suggestion of the Governor of Colorado; a report made by the Rev.
Henry A. Atkinson, who investigated the strike as representative of the Federal Council of
the Churches of Christ in America, and of the Social Service Commission of the Congregational
Churches; the report of an elaborate investigation by the Colorado state militia; the bulletins
issued by both sides during the controversy; the testimony given at various coroners' inquests;
and, finally, articles by different writers to be found in the files of Everybody's Magazine,
the Metropolitan Magazine, the Survey, Harper's Weekly, and Collier's Weekly, all during the
year 1914.

The writer prepared a collection of extracts from these various sources, meaning to publish
them in this place; but while the manuscript was in the hands of the publishers, there appeared
one document, which, in the weight of its authority, seemed to discount all others. A decision
was rendered by the Supreme Court of the State of Colorado, in a case which included the most
fundamental of the many issues raised in "King Coal." It is not often that the writer of a
novel of contemporary life is so fortunate as to have the truth of his work passed upon and
established by the highest judicial tribunal of the community!

In the elections of November, 1914, in Huerfano County, Colorado, J. B. Farr, Republican candidate
for re-election as sheriff, a person known throughout the coal-country as "the King of Huerfano
County," was returned as elected by a majority of 329 votes. His rival, the Democratic candidate,
contested the election, alleging "malconduct, fraud and corruption." The district court found
in Farr's favour, and the case was appealed on error to the Supreme Court of the State. On
June 21st, 1916, after Farr had served nearly the whole of his term of office, the Supreme
Court handed down a decision which unseated him and the entire ticket elected with him, finding
in favour of the opposition ticket in all cases and upon all grounds charged.

The decision is long--about ten thousand words, and its legal technicalities would not interest
the reader. It will suffice to reprint the essential paragraphs. The reader is asked to give
these paragraphs careful study, considering, not merely the specific offence denounced by the
court, but its wider implications. The offence was one so unprecedented that the justices of
the court, men chosen for their learning in the history of offences, were moved to say: "We
find no such example of fraud within the books, and must seek the letter and spirit of the
law in a free government, as a scale in which to weigh such conduct." And let it be noted,
this "crime without a name" was not a crime of passion, but of policy; it was a crime deliberately
planned and carried out by profit-seeking corporations of enormous power. Let the reader imagine
the psychology of the men of great wealth who ordered this crime, as a means of keeping and
increasing their wealth; let him realise what must be the attitude of such men to their helpless
workers; and then let him ask himself whether there is any act portrayed in "King Coal" which
men of such character would shrink from ordering.

The Court decision first gives an outline of the case, using for the most part the statements
of the counsel for the defendant, Farr; so that for practical purposes the following may be
taken as the coal companies' own account of their domain: "Round the shaft of each mine are
clustered the tipple, the mine office, the shops, sheds and outbuildings; and huddled close
by, within a stone's throw, cottages of the miners built on the land of, and owned by, the
mining company. All the dwellers in the camp are employes of the mine. There is no other industry.
This is 'the camp.' Of the eight 'closed camps' it appears that practically the same conditions
existed in all of them, and those conditions were in general that members of the United Mine
Workers of America, their organisers or agitators, were prevented from coming into the camps,
so far as it was possible to keep them out, and to this end guards were stationed about them.
Of the eight 'closed camps' one of them, 'Walsen,' was, and at the time of the trial still
was, enclosed by a fence erected at the beginning of the strike in October, 1913: Rouse and
Cameron were partly, but never entirely, enclosed by fences. It is admitted that all persons
entering these camps and precincts were required by the companies to have passes, and it is
contended that this was an 'industrial necessity.'"

The Court then goes on as follows:

"The Federal troops entered the district in May of 1914, and the testimony is in agreement
that no serious acts of violence occurred thereafter, and that order was preserved up to and
subsequent to the election, and to the time of this trial.

"It was under this condition that in July, 1914, the Board of County Commissioners changed
certain of the election precincts so as to constitute each of such camps an election precinct,
and with but one exception where a few ranches were included, these precincts were made to
conform to the fences and lines around each camp, protected by fences in some instances and
with armed guards in all cases. Thus each election precinct by this unparalleled act of the
commissioners was placed exclusively within and upon the private grounds and under the private
control of a coal corporation, which autocratically declared who should and who should not
enter upon the territory of this political entity of the state, so purposely bounded by the
county commissioners.

"With but one exception all the lands and buildings within each of these election precincts
as so created, were owned or controlled by the coal corporations; every person resident within
such precincts was an employe of these private corporations or their allied companies, with
the single exception: every judge, clerk or officer of election with the exception of a saloon
keeper, and partner of Farr, was an employe of the coal-companies.

"The polling places were upon the grounds, and in the buildings of these companies; the registration
lists were kept within the private offices or buildings of such companies, and used and treated
as their private property.

"Thus were the public election districts and the public election machinery turned over to the
absolute domination and imperial control of private coal corporations, and used by them as
absolutely and privately as were their mines, to and for their own private purposes, and upon
which public territory no man might enter for either public or private purpose, save and except
by the express permission of these private corporations.

