Lastly, in the exercise of the right of political association, there is a third degree: the
partisans of an opinion may unite in electoral bodies, and choose delegates to represent them
in a central assembly. This is, properly speaking, the application of the representative system
to a party.

Thus, in the first instance, a society is formed between individuals professing the same opinion,
and the tie which keeps it together is of a purely intellectual nature; in the second case,
small assemblies are formed which only represent a fraction of the party. Lastly, in the third
case, they constitute a separate nation in the midst of the nation, a government within the
Government. Their delegates, like the real delegates of the majority, represent the entire
collective force of their party; and they enjoy a certain degree of that national dignity and
great influence which belong to the chosen representatives of the people. It is true that they
have not the right of making the laws, but they have the power of attacking those which are
in being, and of drawing up beforehand those which they may afterwards cause to be adopted.

If, in a people which is imperfectly accustomed to the exercise of freedom, or which is exposed
to violent political passions, a deliberating minority, which confines itself to the contemplation
of future laws, be placed in juxtaposition to the legislative majority, I cannot but believe
that public tranquillity incurs very great risks in that nation. There is doubtless a very
wide difference between proving that one law is in itself better than another and proving that
the former ought to be substituted for the latter. But the imagination of the populace is very
apt to overlook this difference, which is so apparent to the minds of thinking men. It sometimes
happens that a nation is divided into two nearly equal parties, each of which affects to represent
the majority. If, in immediate contiguity to the directing power, another power be established,
which exercises almost as much moral authority as the former, it is not to be believed that
it will long be content to speak without acting; or that it will always be restrained by the
abstract consideration of the nature of associations which are meant to direct but not to enforce
opinions, to suggest but not to make the laws.

The more we consider the independence of the press in its principal consequences, the more
are we convinced that it is the chief and, so to speak, the constitutive element of freedom
in the modern world. A nation which is determined to remain free is therefore right in demanding
the unrestrained exercise of this independence.

In America the liberty of association for political purposes is unbounded. An example will
show in the clearest light to what an extent this privilege is tolerated.

The question of the tariff, or of free trade, produced a great manifestation of party feeling
in America; the tariff was not only a subject of debate as a matter of opinion, but it exercised
a favorable or a prejudicial influence upon several very powerful interests of the States.
The North attributed a great portion of its prosperity, and the South all its sufferings, to
this system; insomuch that for a long time the tariff was the sole source of the political
animosities which agitated the Union.

