There was also another impediment,--the tucking of his shirt under his waistcoat was next adjusted.
Then Lord Kilmarnock, taking out a paper containing the heads of his last devotions, advanced
to the utmost stage of the scaffold, and kneeled down at the block, on which, in praying, he
placed his hands, until the executioner remonstrated, begging of him to let his hands fall
down, lest they should be mangled, or should intercept the blow. He was also told that the
neck of his waistcoat was in the way; he therefore arose, and with the help of Colonel Walkinshaw
Craufurd, had it taken off. Near him were standing those who held the cloth ready to receive
his head; among these Mr. Home's servant heard Lord Kilmarnock tell the executioner, that in
two minutes he would give the signal. A few moments were spent in fervent devotion; then the
sign was given, and the head was severed from the body by one stroke. It was not exposed to
view according to custom: but was deposited in a coffin with the body, and delivered to his
Lordship's friends. One peculiarity attended this execution. It is not required by law that
the head of a person decapitated should be exposed; but is a custom adopted in order to satisfy
the multitude that the execution has been accomplished. Since, by Lord Kilmarnock's dying request,
this practice was omitted, the Sheriffs ordered that all the attendants on the scaffold should
kneel down, so that the view of the execution might not be impeded[392] to those who were below.

The scaffold was immediately cleared, and put in order for another victim; and Mr. Ford, the
Under-Sheriff, who had attended the first execution, went into the room in the Transport Office
where Balmerino awaited his doom. "I suppose," inquired the undaunted Balmerino, "that my Lord
Kilmarnock is no more." And having asked how he died, and being told the account, he said:
"It is well done, and now, gentlemen, I will no longer detain you, for I desire not to protract
my life." He spoke calmly, and even cheerfully; Lord Kilmarnock had shed tears as he bade his
friends farewell, but Balmerino, whilst others wept, was even cheerful, and hastened to the
scaffold. His deportment, when in the room where he awaited the summons to death, was graceful
and yet simple, without either any ostentation of bravery, or indications of indifference to
his fate. He did not defy the terror, he rose above it. He conversed freely with his friends,
and refreshed himself twice with wine and bread, desiring the company to drink to him, as he
expressed it in his Scottish phrase, "ain degrae ta haiven;" but above all, he prayed often
and fervently for support, and support was given.

True to the last to his professions, Lord Balmerino was dressed in what was called by a contemporary,
"his Rebellious Regimentals," such as he had worn at Culloden; they were of blue cloth, turned
up with red; underneath them was a flannel waistcoat and a shroud. He ascended the scaffold,
"treading," as an observer expressed it, "with the air of a General," and surveying the spectators,
bowed to them; he walked round it, and read the inscription on his coffin, "Arthurus Dominus
de Balmerino, decollatus, 18^o die August. 1746, ætatis suæ 58^o;" observed "that it was right,"
and with apparent pleasure looked at the block saying, it was his "pillow of rest." Lord Balmerino
then pulling out his spectacles, read a paper to those who stood around him, and delivered
it to the Sheriff to do with it as he thought proper. It was subsequently printed in a garbled
form, much of it being deemed too treasonable for publication, and in that form is preserved
in the State Trials.[393] It is now given as it was really spoken.

"I was bred in the anti-revolution principles, which I have ever persevered in, from a sincere
persuasion that the restoration of the Royal Family, and the good of my native country, are
inseparable. The action of my life which now stares me most in the face, is my having accepted
a commission in the army from the late Princess Anne, who I knew had no more right to the crown
than her predecessor, the Prince of Orange, whom I always considered as an infamous usurper.

"In the year 1715, as soon as the King landed in Scotland, I thought it my indispensable duty
to join his standard, though his affairs were then in a desperate situation.

"I was in Switzerland in the year 1734, where I received a letter from my father acquainting
me that he had procured me remission, and desiring me to return home. Not thinking myself at
liberty to comply with my father's desire without the King's approbation, I wrote to Rome to
know his Majesty's pleasure, and was directed by him to return home; and at the same time I
received a letter of credit upon his banker at Paris, who furnished me with money to defray
the expense of my journey, and put me in repair. I think myself bound, upon this occasion,
to contradict a report which has been industriously spread, and which I never heard of till
I was prisoner; that orders were given to the Prince's army to give no quarter at the battle
of Culloden. With my eye upon the block, which will soon bring me unto the highest of all tribunals,
I do declare that it is without any manner of foundation, both because it is impossible it
could have escaped the knowledge of me, who was captain of the Prince's Life Guards, or of
Lord Kilmarnock, who was colonel of his own regiment; but still more so, as it is entirely
inconsistent with the mild and generous nature of that brave Prince, whose patience, fortitude,
intrepidity, and humanity, I must declare upon this solemn occasion, are qualities in which
he excels all men I ever knew, and which it ever was his desire to employ for the relief and
preservation of his father's subjects. I believe rather, that this report was spread to palliate
and excuse the murders they themselves committed in cold blood after the battle of Culloden.

"I think it my duty to return my sincere acknowledgments to Major White and Mr. Fowler, for
their humane and complaisant behaviour to me during my confinement. I wish I could pay the
same compliment to General Williamson, who used me with the greatest inhumanity and cruelty;
but having taken the sacrament this day, I forgive him, as I do all my enemies.

"I die in the religion of the Church of England, which I look upon as the same with the Episcopal
Church of Scotland, in which I was brought up."

After delivering this speech, Lord Balmerino laid his head upon the block, and said, "God reward
my friends, and forgive my enemies: bless and restore the King; preserve the Prince, and the
Duke of York,--and receive my soul."

The executioner then being called for, and kneeling to ask forgiveness, Lord Balmerino interrupted
him. "Friend, you need not ask my forgiveness; the execution of your duty is commendable."
He then gave the headsman three guineas, saying, "this is all I have; I can only add to it
my coat and waistcoat," which, accordingly, he took off, laying them on the coffin for the
executioner. After putting on a flannel jacket made for the occasion, and a plaid cap, he went
to the block in order to show the executioner the signal. He then returned to his friends.
"I am afraid," he said, addressing them, "that there are some here who may think my behaviour
bold: remember, sir," he added, addressing a gentleman near him, "what I tell you; it arises
from a just confidence in God, and a clear conscience." Memorable, and beautiful words, distinguishing
between the presumption of indifference, and the security of a living faith. When he laid his
head on the block to try it, he said, "if I had a thousand lives I would lay them all down
in the same cause."

Lord Balmerino then showed the Executioner where to strike the blow; he examined the edge of
the axe, and bade the man to strike with resolution; "for in that, friend," he said, as he
replaced the axe in the hand of the man, "will consist your mercy." He asked how many strokes
had been given to Lord Kilmarnock. Two clergymen coming up at that moment, he said, "no, gentlemen,
I believe you have already done me all the service you can." He called loudly to the warder,
and gave him his perriwig; and instantly laid down his head upon the block, but being told
that he was on the wrong side, he vaulted round, and extending his arms uttered this short
prayer: "O Lord, reward my friends, forgive my enemies:"--he uttered, it has been stated, another
ejaculation for king James; but that petition was suppressed in the printed accounts of his
death: then, pronouncing these words, "receive my soul," he gave the signal by throwing up
his arm, as if he were giving the signal for battle. His intrepidity, and the suddenness of
that last sign terrified the executioner, whose arm became almost powerless; the affrighted
man struck the blow on the part directed, but though, it is hoped, it destroyed all sensation,
the head was not severed, but fell back on the shoulders, exhibiting a ghastly sight. Two more
strokes of the axe were requisite to complete the work. Then, the head having been received
in a piece of scarlet cloth, the lifeless remains of the true, and noble hearted soldier were
deposited in a coffin, and delivered to his friends.

A vast multitude viewed this spectacle, so execrable in its cruelty, so great in the deportment
of the sufferers. Even on the masts of ships, in the calm river, were the spectators piled;
all classes of society were interested in this memorable scene; and, for a few short weeks,
the fashionable circles were diverted by the humours of Lady Townshend, and the witticisms
of George Selwyn. During the imprisonment of Kilmarnock, it had been the fancy of the former
to station herself under the window of his chamber in one of the dismal towers in which he
was detained; to send messages to him, and to obtain his dog and snuff-box. But even this show
of affected feeling failed to make compassion fashionable in the regions of St. James's. Calumny
was busy at the grave of the beheaded Jacobites; and the accounts of those who attended them
in their last hours were attacked by anonymous pamphleteers. It was said, among other things,
that Balmerino uttered no prayer at the last moment; and his behaviour was contrasted with
that of Kilmarnock. On this allegation, Mr. Ford, the Under-Sheriff, who was on the scaffold,
observes, "the authors of these attacks being concealed are unworthy of other notice, since
nothing is easier to an ingenious and unprejudiced mind, than to distinguish between the subject
and the man: my Lord Kilmarnock was happily educated in right principles, which he deviated
from, and repented; whereas, the great, though unhappy Balmerino, was unfortunate in his,--but,
as he lived, he died."[394]

The characters of these two noblemen, who, in life, held a very dissimilar course, until they
coöperated in arms, are strongly contrasted. To Kilmarnock belonged the gentle qualities which
enhance the pleasures of society, but often, too, increase its perils: the susceptible, affectionate
nature, not fortified by self-controul; the compassionate disposition, acting rather from impulse
than principle. Infirm in principle, his rash alliance with a party who were opposed to all
that he had learned to respect in childhood; and whom he joined, from the stimulus of a misdirected
ambition, cannot be justified. To this, it was generally believed, he was greatly incited by
the persuasions of his mother-in-law, the Countess of Errol.

Whilst we bestow our cordial approbation on those who engaged in civil strife from a sense
of duty, and from notions of allegiance, which had never been exterminated from their moral
code, we condemn such as, attaching themselves to the Jacobite party, outraged their secret
convictions, betrayed the trusts of Government, and violated the promise of their youth. Such
a course must spring either from selfishness, or weakness, or from a melancholy union of both.
In Lord Kilmarnock it was far more the result of weakness than of self-interest: his fortunes
were desperate, and his mind was embittered towards the ruling government: his admiration was
attracted by the gallantry and resolution of those who adhered to the Chevalier: his sense
of what was due to his rank, and the consciousness of high descent, coupled with empty honours
and real poverty, stimulated him to take that course which seemed the most likely to regain
a position, without ever enjoying which a man may be happy, but which few can bear to lose.
This was his original error; he joined the standard of Charles Edward,--but he was no Jacobite.
He fought against his own convictions, the hereditary and ineffaceable prepossessions implanted
in the heart by a parent.

From henceforth, until immured in the Tower, all in the career of Lord Kilmarnock was turbulence;
and, it must be acknowledged, crime. For nothing can justify a resistance of sovereign power,
save a belief in its illegality. "I engaged in the rebellion," was Lord Kilmarnock's confession,
"in opposition to my own principles, and to those of my family; in contradiction to the whole
tenor of my conduct." Such were his expressions at that hour when no earthly considerations
had power to seduce him into falsehood.

By those historians who espouse the Jacobite cause, this avowal has been severely censured;
and Lord Kilmarnock has been regarded as deserting the party which he had espoused. But, with
his conviction, such a line of conduct as that which he pursued in prison, could alone be honest,
and therefore alone consistent with his religious hopes, before he quitted life. Such censure
has been well answered in Lord Kilmarnock's own words, "I am in little pain for the reflections
which the inconsiderate or prejudiced part of my countrymen, (if there are any such whom my
suffering the just sentence of the law has not mollified,) may cast upon me for this confession.
The wiser or more ingenious will, I hope, approve my conduct, and allow with me, that next
to doing right is to have the courage and integrity to avow that I have done wrong." These
sentiments were not, be it observed, made public until after his death.

If, in early life, the career of Lord Kilmarnock were tainted by dissolute conduct, his deep
contrition, his sincere confession of his errors, his endeavours to amend them, redeem those
very errors in the eyes of human judgment, as they will probably plead for him, with One who
is more merciful than man. In his prison, his patience in suspense, his forbearance to those
who had urged on his death, his generous sentiments towards his companions in misfortune,--his
care for others, his trust in the mercy of his Saviour, present as instructive a lesson as
mortals can glean from the errors and the penitence of others.

Contrasted with the gentle, unfortunate Kilmarnock, the gallant bearing of Balmerino rises
to heroism. One cannot, for the sake of his party, help regretting that he had not taken a
more prominent part in the councils of the young Chevalier, or held a more distinguished position
in the field. His integrity, his strong sense, and moral courage might have had an advantageous
influence over the wavering, and confirmed the indecisive. In the field, his would have been
the desperate valour which suits a desperate cause; but his resources were few, and his influence
proportionately small.

The soldier of fortune, driven at an early age from home, sent from country to country, serving,
with little hope of advancement, under various generals, Balmerino had learned to view life
almost as a matter of indifference, compared with the honest satisfaction of preserving consistency.
His existence had been one of trial, and of banishment from all domestic pleasures, and in
the perils of his youthful days, he had learned to view it as so precarious, that his final
doom came not to him as a surprise, but seemed merely a natural conclusion of a career of danger
and adventure. His heroism may excite less admiration even than the resignation of those who
had more to lose; but his intrepidity, his courageous sincerity, his contempt of all display,
his carelessness of himself, and the tender concern which he evinced for others, are qualities
which we should not be English not to appreciate and venerate. His were the finest attributes
of the soldier and the Jacobite: the firm, unflinching adherence; the enthusiastic loyalty;
the utter repugnance to all compromising; and the lofty disregard of opinion, which extorted,
even from those who endeavoured to ridicule, a reluctant respect.

For the relentless pretext of what was called justice, which sent this brave man to his doom,
there is no possibility of accounting, except in the deep party hatred of the Government. Lord
Kilmarnock is believed to have owed his death to the false report industriously spread of his
having treated the English prisoners with cruelty; but no such plea could injure Balmerino.
One dark influence, at that time all powerful at court, all powerful among the people, denied
them mercy;--and the crowds which witnessed the death of Kilmarnock and of Balmerino, hastened
to do homage to the Duke of Cumberland. Nothing can, in fact, more plainly show the effect
of frequent executions upon the character of a people than the details of the year 1746. With
the inhabitants of London, like the French at the time of the Revolution, the value of life
was lowered; the indifference to scenes of horror formed a shocking feature in their conduct.
In the great world, jests, and witticisms delighted the Satellites of power. It was the barbarous
fashion to visit Temple Bar for the purpose of viewing the heads exhibited there; spying glasses
being let out for the ghastly spectacle. And the coarse, unfeeling invectives of the press
prove the general state of the public mind, in those days, more effectually than any other
fact could do:--in the present times, the cruelty which pursues its victim to the grave would
not be tolerated.

In his latest hours, the chief concern of Lord Kilmarnock seems to have been for his eldest
son, to whom he addressed the following beautiful letter.

EXTRACT OF THE LATE EARL OF KILMARNOCK'S LETTER TO HIS SON LORD BOYD.

                                "Dated, Tower, 17th of August, 1746.

    "Dear Boyd,

    "I must take this way to bid you farewell, and I pray God may ever
    bless you and guide you in this world, and bring you to a happy
    immortality in the world to come. I must, likewise, give you my last
    advice. Seek God in your youth, and when you are old He will not
    depart from you. Be at pains to acquire good habits now, that they
    may grow up, and become strong in you. Love mankind, and do justice
    to all men. Do good to as many as you can, and neither shut your
    ears nor your purse to those in distress, whom it is in your power
    to relieve. Believe me, you will find more joy in one beneficent
    action; and in your cool moments you will be more happy with the
    reflection of having made any person so, who without your assistance
    would have been miserable, than in the enjoyment of all the
    pleasures of sense (which pall in the using), and of all the pomps
    and gaudy show of the world. Live within your circumstances, by
    which means you will have it in your power to do good to others.
    Above all things, continue in your loyalty to his present Majesty,
    and the succession to the crown as by law established. Look on that
    as the basis of the civil and religious liberty and property of
    every individual in the nation. Prefer the public interests to your
    own, wherever they interfere. Love your family and your children,
    when you have any; but never let your regard to them drive you on
    the rock I split upon; when, on that account, I departed from my
    principles, and brought the guilt of rebellion, and civil and
    particular desolation on my head, for which I am now under the
    sentence justly due to my Prince. Use all your interest to get your
    brother pardoned and brought home as soon as possible, that his
    circumstances, and bad influence of those he is among, may not
    induce him to accept of foreign service, and lose him both to his
    country and his family. If money can be found to support him, I wish
    you would advise him to go to Geneva, where his principles of
    religion and liberty will be confirmed, and where he may stay till
    you see if a pardon can be procured him. As soon as Commodore Burnet
    comes home, inquire for your brother Billie, and take care of him on
    my account. I must again recommend your unhappy mother to you.
    Comfort her, and take all the care you can of your brothers: and may
    God of His infinite mercy, preserve, guide, and comfort you and them
    through all the vicissitudes of this life, and after it bring you to
    the habitations of the just, and make you happy in the enjoyment of
    Himself to all eternity!"

PAPER DELIVERED BY THE LATE EARL OF KILMARNOCK TO MR. FOSTER.

                                      "Sunday, 17th of August, 1746.

    "As it would be a vain attempt in me to speak distinctly to that
    great concourse of people, who will probably be present at my
    execution, I chose to leave this behind me, as my last solemn
    declaration, appealing for my integrity to God, who knows my heart.

    "I bless God I have little fear of temporal death, though attended
    with many outward circumstances of terror; the greatest sting I feel
    in death is that I have deserved it.

    "Lord Balmerino, my fellow-sufferer, to do justice, dies in a
    professed adherence to the mistaken principles he had imbibed from
    his cradle. But I engaged in the Rebellion in opposition to my own
    principles, and to those of my family; in contradiction to the whole
    tenour of my conduct, till within these few months that I was
    wickedly induced to renounce my allegiance, which ever before I had
    preserved and held inviolable.

    "Groundless accusations of cruelty have been raised and propagated
    concerning me; and charges spread among the people of my having
    solicited for, nay, even actually signed orders of general savage
    destruction, seldom issued among the most barbarous nations, and
    which my soul abhors. And that the general temper of my mind was
    ever averse from, and shocked at gross instances of inhumanity, I
    appeal to all my friends and acquaintance who have known me most
    intimately, and even to those prisoners of the King's troops to whom
    I had access, and whom I ever had it in my power to relieve; I
    appeal, in particular, for my justification as to this justly
    detested and horrid crime of cruelty, to Captain Master, of Ross,
    Captain-Lieutenant Luon, and Lieutenant George Cuming of Alter.

    "These gentlemen will, I am persuaded, as far as relates to
    themselves, and as far as has fallen within their knowledge as
    credible information, do me justice; and then, surely my countrymen
    will not load a person, already too guilty and unfortunate, with
    undeserved infamy, which may not only fix itself on his own
    character, but reflect dishonour on his family.

    "I have no more to say, but that I am persuaded, if reasons of
    state, and the demands of public justice had permitted his Majesty
    to follow the dictates of his own royal heart, my sentence might
    have been mitigated. Had it pleased God to prolong my life, the
    remainder of it should have been faithfully employed in the service
    of my justly offended sovereign, and in constant endeavours to wipe
    away the very remembrance of my crime.

    "I now, with my dying breath, beseech Almighty God to bless my
    rightful sovereign, King George, and preserve him from the attacks
    of public and private enemies.

    "May his Majesty, and his illustrious descendants, be so guided by
    the Divine Providence as ever to govern with that wisdom, and that
    care for the public good, as will preserve to them the love of their
    subjects, and secure their right to reign over a free and happy
    people to the latest posterity."

That Lord Boyd reciprocated the affection of his father appears from the following letter,
which he addressed, a few days after the execution of Lord Kilmarnock, to Colonel Walkinshaw
Craufurd, who was then at Scarborough.

    "My Dear John,

    "I had yours last post, and I don't know in what words to express
    how much I am obliged to you for doing the last duties to my
    unfortunate father; you can be a judge what a loss I have suffered;
    you knew him perfectly well, that he was the best of friends, the
    most affectionate husband, and the tenderest parent. Poor Lady
    Kilmarnock bears her loss much better than I could have imagined;
    but it was entirely owing to her being prepared several days before
    she got the melancholy accounts of it. I shall be here for some
    time, as I have a good deal of business to do in this country; so I
    shall be extremely glad to see you as soon as possible. I am, my
    dear John, your most sincere friend and obedient humble servant,

                                                              BOYD."

    "Kilmarnock (House) August 27th, 1746."

Yet the young nobleman did not, it appears, entirely satisfy the expectations of those who
were interested in his fate, and attached to his father's memory, as the following extract
from a letter written by Mr. George Rosse, to Colonel Craufurd, shows.[395]

    "Dear Sir,

    "I am favoured with yours of the thirteenth from Scarborough, and
    had the honour of one letter from Lord Boyd since his father's
    execution, and sorry to tell you, it was not wrote in such terms as
    I could show or make any use of. If you had seen him, I dare say it
    would have been otherwise. However, I took the liberty of writing
    with plainness to him, in hopes of drawing from him, what may be
    shown to his honour and to his own immediate advantage.

       *       *       *       *       *

    "I put him in mind of writing to his cousin, Duke of Hamilton, and
    Mr. Home; an omission, which, with submission, is unpardonable, as
    he was apprised of their goodness to his father; and I gave him some
    hints with relation to himself, by authority of the ministry, which,
    if he continue in the army, may be improved upon. Those things I
    think proper to mention to you, as I know your friendship for Boyd,
    that you may take an opportunity of mentioning them to him, when you
    are with him, which I hope will be soon. He is appointed deputy
    Captain-Lieutenant; but that I look upon as a step to higher
    preferment. I should like to hear from you; direct to (Crawfurdland)
    Kilmarnock, and I am, dear sir, your most obedient, humble servant.

                                                       "GEO. ROSSE."

        Leicesterfield,
    September 8th, 1746.

Notwithstanding these seeming acts of negligence, which may possibly have been explained, Lord
Boyd became, in every way, worthy of being the representative of an ancient race. He was an
improved resemblance of his amiable, unhappy father. Possessing his father's personal attributes,
he added, to the courtesy and kindliness of his father's character, strength of principle,
a perfect consistency of conduct, and sincere religious connections, both in the early and
latter period of his life. His deportment is said to have combined both the sublime and the
graceful; his form, six feet four inches in height, to have been the most elegant; his manners
the most polished and popular of his time. In his domestic relations he was exemplary, systematic,
yet with the due liberality of a nobleman, in his affairs; sagacious and conscientious as a
magistrate; generous to his friends. He claimed and obtained the maternal estate, and obtained
it in 1751. In 1758 he succeeded Mary, Countess of Errol in her own right, his mother's aunt,
as Earl of Errol, and left the army in which he had continued to serve. He retired to Slains
Castle, where he passed his days in the exercise of those virtues which become a man who is
conscious, by rank and fortune, of a deep responsibility, and who regards those rather as trusts,
than possessions. He died at Calendar-house, in 1778, universally lamented, and honoured.

The Countess of Kilmarnock survived her husband only one year; and died at Kilmarnock in 1747.
Two sons were, however, left, in addition to Lord Boyd, to encounter, for some years, considerable
difficulties. Of these, the second, Charles, who was in the insurrection of 1745, escaped to
the Isle of Arran, where he lay concealed, in that, the ancient territory of the Boyds, for
a year. He amused himself, having found an old chest of medical books, with the study of medicine
and surgery, which he afterwards practised with some degree of skill among the poor. He then
escaped to France, and married there a French lady; but eventually he found a home at Slains
Castle, where he was residing when Dr. Johnson and Boswell visited Scotland. He was a man of
considerable accomplishment; but, as Boswell observed, "with a pompousness or formal plenitude
in his conversation," or as Dr. Johnson expressively remarked, "with too much elaboration in
his talk." "It gave me pleasure," adds Boswell, "to see him, a steady branch of the family,
setting forth all its advantages with much zeal."

William Boyd, the fourth son of Lord Kilmarnock, was in the Royal Navy, and on board Commodore
Burnet's ship at the time of his father's execution. He was eventually promoted to a company
of the 14th foot, in 1761.

Lord Balmerino left no descendants to recall the remembrance of his honest, manly character.
His wife, Margaret Chalmers, survived him nearly twenty years, and died at Restalrig, on the
24th of August, 1765, aged fifty-six.

The remains of these two unfortunate noblemen were deposited under the gallery, at the west
end of the chapel in the Tower. Beside them repose those of Simon, Lord Lovat. "As they were
associates in crime, so they were companions in sepulchre," observes a modern writer, "being
buried in the same grave."[398] But the more discriminative judge of the human heart will spurn
so rash, and undiscerning a remark; and marvel that, in the course of one contest, characters
so differing in principle, so unlike in every attribute of the heart, and viewed, even by their
enemies, with sentiments so totally opposite, should thus be mingled together in their last home.

FOOTNOTES:

[316] Wood's Peerage.

[317] Who, adds the same authority, carried azure, a fess chequé, argent and gules: and for
their crest, a hand issuing out of a wreath, pointing with the thumb and two fingers: motto,
confido; supporters, two squirrels collared or.

[318] Reay, 203.

[319] Reay, 203.

[320] Wood's Peerage. The defect of the title is the failure of issue male. The title of Livingstone
was considered by the same authority as untouched.

[321] Ibid.

[322] Lockhart Papers, i. 138. Note. Calendar.

[323] Memoirs of Lord Kilmarnock. London, 1746, p. 19.

[324] Memoirs of the Earl of Kilmarnock, p. 20.

[325] MS. Letter presented to me by Mrs. Howison Craufurd, of Craufurdland Castle, Ayrshire.

[326] Memoirs of Lord Kilmarnock, p. 21.

[327] Horace Walpole's Letters, ii. p. 113.

[328] Foster's Account, p. 11.

[329] Grose, 214.

[330] Memoirs of Lord Kilmarnock, p. 23.

[331] Life of Colonel Gardiner, by Dr. Doddridge, passim.

[332] Doddridge. Life of Colonel Gardiner, p. 155.

[333] Henderson, p. 130.

[334] State Trials of George II.

[335] Maxwell, p. 60.

[336] Forbes's Account, p. 20.

[337] Maxwell, p. 50. This Nobleman was at the battle of Culloden.

[338] Henderson, p. 332.

[339] Henderson, p. 130.

[340] Note in Chambers, p. 89.

[341] History of the Rebellion, from the Scots' Magazine, p. 198.

[342] Chambers, p. 89. Henderson, p. 334.

[343] Observations on the Account of the Behaviour of Lords Kilmarnock and Balmerino, 1746.

[344] Ibid.

[345] Nesbitt, Heraldry, vol. i. p. 154.

[346] "Elphingstone, in the shire of Hadington, and in the parish of Tranent, a village at
the distance of three miles S.S.W. from Tranent."--Edinburgh Gazetteer.

[347] Nesbitt, p. 154.

[348] Memoirs of Lord Balmerino. London, 1764.

[349] Wood's Peerage.

[350] Life of Lord Balmerino, p. 51. Buchan's Account of the Earls of Keith, p. 149.

[351] Scots' Magazine for 1746.

[352] Scots' Magazine for 1746.

[353] Georgian Era.

[354] Wood's Peerage.

[355] Maxwell, p. 59.

[356] Georgian Era.

[357] State Trials, vol. xviii.

[358] Edinburgh Gazetteer. Art. "South Leith."

[359] History of the Rebellion from the Scots' Magazine, p. 302.

[360] Horace Walpole's Letters to Sir Horace Mann, vol. ii. p. 160.

[361] Georgian Era.

[362] Ibid.

[363] State Trials, vol. xviii. p. 466.

[364] Observations on the Account, &c., p. 23.

[365] Horace Walpole, vol. ii. p. 163

[366] Ibid. vol. ii. p. 115.

[367] Horace Walpole.

[368] See Scots' Magazine for 1746.

[369] State Trials.

[370] State Trials.

[371] Note. The plea was couched in these words: "July 29th, 1746. It is conceived that the
late Act of Parliament, empowering his Majesty to transport such as are taken in arms from
one county to another, where they may be tried by the course of the common law, did not take
place till after that time, that the facts implying treason, were actually committed by the
accused prisoners, and if so, the Grand Jury of Surrey, or of any other county whatsoever,
where these acts of treason are not alleged to have been committed, could not, agreeable to
law, find bills against such prisoners; and it may, on that score, be prayed, That the indictment
be quashed, or that an arrest of judgment be thereupon granted." What a bitter, though unavailing
feeling of regret accompanies the reflection that this benevolent attempt to save the lives
of these brave men, was fruitless.

[372] Letters to Sir H. Mann, vol. ii. p. 167.

[373] State Trials 18, p. 502.

[374] H. Walpole, p. 31. Letters to G. Montagu.

[375] Walpole's Letters to Montagu, p. 29. Folio.

[376] Letters to Sir H. Mann, vol. ii. p. 167.

[377] State Trials, by Hargreaves, pp. 18, 502.

[378] Memoirs of the Earl of Kilmarnock and Cromartie, and of Lord Balmerino, 1746.

[379] Life of Lord Cromartie, 1746.

[380] Buchan's Memoirs of the House of Keith, p. 143.

[381] Walpole's Letters to Sir H. Mann, vol. ii. p. 171.

[382] Foster's Account, p. 87.

[383] For a copy of this letter I am indebted to the kindness of Mrs. Craufurd of Craufurdland
Castle, Kilmarnock. The original is in the possession of Martin Paterson, Esq. of Kilmarnock,
and is endorsed "Copy of the last Instructions of Lord Kilmarnock to his factor, Mr. Robert
Paterson."

[384] Statement.

[385] Statement.

[386] Mrs. Howison Craufurd, the lady of William Howison Craufurd, Esq., of Craufurdland Castle,
Ayrshire. To this Lady I am indebted for much of the information (afforded by her admirable
letters) which has been introduced into this Memoir of Lord Kilmarnock. To this lady I addressed
an inquiry respecting an original portrait of Lord Kilmarnock. Her efforts to obtain any intelligence
of one have been wholly unavailing; and we have been led to the conclusion that, in the fire
at Dean Castle, all the portraits of Lord Kilmarnock must have been destroyed; his resemblance,
his name, his honour, and his Castle thus becoming extinct at once. At Craufurdland Castle
there is a fine portrait of Lord Kilmarnock's brother, his widow and daughter, painted in oils,
after a singular fashion, black and white; giving it a ghastly hue. This perhaps accounts for
the local tradition near Kilmarnock, "that on hearing of his brother's death, Mr. Boyd's colour
fled, and never returned; nor was he ever seen to smile again." A tradition not difficult of
belief.

The present Mr. Craufurd, of Craufurdland Castle, represents also the family of Howison of
Bræ-head. In Mrs. Howison Craufurd's family an amusing circumstance relative to Lord Lovat
occurred. He was one evening in a ball-room, and was paying court to the great-grandmother
of that lady. As he was playfully examining, and holding in his hand her diamond solitaire,
a voice whispered in his ear, "that Government officers were in pursuit of him; and that he
must decamp." Decamp he did, taking with him, perhaps by accident, the costly jewel. The young
lady was in the greatest trepidation, and her family were resolved to recover the ornament.
Many years after, on his return from France, Lovat, whose character, in no respect, rose above
suspicion, was taxed with the robbery, and refunded a sum which gave twenty pounds to each
of a host of granddaughters, then in their girlhood.

[387] In a letter from Mrs. Craufurd of Craufurdland to the author, this fact is stated. It
is mentioned as traditionary elsewhere, but is attested by the family.

[388] H. Walpole, vol. ii. p. 167.

[389] H. Walpole's Letters to Mr. Montagu.

[390] Foster's Account, p. 31.

[391] Walpole.

[392] Ford's Account in State Trials, p. 18, 522.

[393] For the original of Lord Balmerino's real speech, which is highly characteristic of its
author, I am indebted to Charles Kirkpatrick Sharpe, Esq.

    "I was brought up in true, loyal, and anti-revolution principles and
    I hope the world is convinced that they stuck to me. I must
    acknowledge I did a very inconsiderate thing, for which I am
    heartily sorry, in accepting a company of Foot from the Princess
    Anne, who I know had no more right to the Crown than her predecessor
    the Prince of Orange.... To make amends for what I had done I joined
    the ... (Pretender) when he was in Scotland in 1715, and when all
    was over I made my escape, and lived abroad till the year 1734.

    "In the beginning of that year I got a letter from my father which
    very much surprised me; it was to let me know he had a promise of a
    remission for me. I did not know what to do; I was then, (I think,)
    in the canton of Berne, and had nobody to advise with: but next
    morning I wrote a letter to the ... (Pretender) who was then at
    Rome, to acquaint the ... (Pretender) that this was come without my
    asking or knowledge, and that I would not accept of it without his
    consent. I had in answer to mine, a letter written with ... (The
    Pretender's) own hand, allowing me to go home; and he told me his
    banker would give me money for my travelling charges when I came to
    Paris, which accordingly I got. When the ... (the Pretender's son)
    came to Edinburgh I joined him, though I might easily have excused
    myself from taking arms on account of my age; but I never could have
    had peace of conscience if I had stayed at home.... I am at a loss
    when I come to speak of the ... (Pretender's son,) I am not a fit
    hand to draw his character, I shall leave that to others. (Here he
    gives a fulsome character of the Pretender's son.)

    "Pardon me if I say, wherever I had the command, I never suffered
    any disorders to be committed, as will appear by the Duke of
    Buccleugh's servants at East Park; by the Earl of Findlater's
    minister, Mr. Lato, and my Lord's servant, A. Cullen; by Mr. Rose,
    minister at Nairn, (who was pleased to favour me with a visit when I
    was prisoner at Inverness;) by Mr. Stewart, principal servant to the
    Lord President at the House of Culloden; and by several other
    people. All this gives me great pleasure, now that I am looking upon
    the block on which I am ready to lay down my head; and though it
    would not have been my own natural inclination to protect everybody,
    it would have been my interest to have done it for ... (the
    Pretender's son) abhorred all those who were capable of doing
    injustice to any.... I have heard since I came to this place, that
    there has been a most wicked report spread, and mentioned in several
    of the newspapers that ... (the Pretender's son) before the battle
    of Culloden, had given out orders that no quarter should be given to
    the enemy. This is such an unchristian thing, and so unlike ... (the
    Pretender's son,) that nobody (the Jacobites) that knows him will
    believe it. It is very strange if there had been any such orders,
    that neither the Earl of Kilmarnock, who was Colonel of the regiment
    of the Foot Guards, nor I, who was Colonel of the second troop of
    Life Guards, should ever have heard anything of it; especially since
    we were both at the head-quarters the morning before the battle; I
    am convinced that it is a malicious report industriously spread
    to....

    "Ever since my confinement in the Tower, when Major White or Mr.
    Fowler did me the honour of a visit, their behaviour was always so
    kind and obliging to me that I cannot find words to express it; but
    I am sorry I cannot say the same thing of a General Williamson: he
    has treated me barbarously, but not quite so ill as he did the
    Bishop of Rochester; and had it not been for a worthy clergyman's
    advice, I should have prayed for him in the words of David, Psalm
    109, from the 6th to the 15th verse. I forgive him and all my
    enemies. I hope you will have the charity to believe I die in peace
    with all men; for yesterday, I received the Holy Eucharist from the
    hands of a clergyman of the Church of England, in whose communion I
    die as in union with the Episcopal Church of Scotland.

    "I shall conclude with a short prayer."--(Here a prayer is mentioned
    much the same as in Wm. Ford's account.)

[394] The account which I have given of Lord Kilmarnock's behaviour and fate, and also of Lord
Balmerino's, is taken from the following works, to which I have not thought it necessary separately
to refer. Foster's Account of the Behaviour of Lord Kilmarnock; and the Vindication of Foster's
Account from the misrepresentations of some Dissenting Teachers: London, 1746. Account by T.
Ford, Under-Sheriff at the Execution, in the State Trials, vol. xviii. p. 325. Horace Walpole's
Letters to Geo. Montagu, and to Sir H. Mann. Scots' Magazine for 1746; and Buchan's Life of
Marshal Keith; also a Collection of Tracts in the British Museum, relating to the Rebellion,
1746, and chiefly published during that year.

[395] For both these letters, hitherto unpublished, I am indebted for the courtesy of Mrs.
Craufurd of Craufurdland Castle.

[396] Forbes's Life of Beattie, vol. ii. p. 351.

[397] Journey to the Hebrides, p. 108

[398] Bayley's History of the Tower, p. 122.

CHARLES RADCLIFFE.

The fate of Charles Radcliffe has been regarded as one of the most severe, and his death as
one of the most unjustifiable acts inflicted on those who suffered for their adherence to the
Stuart cause.

This unfortunate man was the third son of Francis Earl of Derwentwater, by the Lady Mary Tudor,
the daughter of Charles the Second, and was born in 1693. He was the younger brother of James
Earl of Derwentwater, who suffered in 1716, for his adherence to the Stuart cause. There was
also another elder brother, Francis, who died unmarried, not taking any apparent interest in
the politics of the day.

The family of Radcliffe were not regarded by the descendants of their common ancestor, Charles
the Second, in the light of kindred whom the rules of decorum, and the usages of society might
induce them to disclaim, or at all events, to acknowledge with shame or reluctance; the vitiated
notions of the day attached a very different value to the parentage of royalty, even when associated
with dishonour. The marriage of Sir Francis Radcliffe to the daughter of Mary Davis was that
event which procured his elevation to the peerage; and this alliance, was considered as elevating
the dignity of an ancient house.[399] The closest ties of friendship united the Stuarts and
the Radcliffes, even from their earliest infancy. Educated, as well as his elder brother, James,
chiefly at St. Germains, and with the Chevalier James Stuart, and brought up in the Roman Catholic
faith, Charles Radcliffe, owing to the natural ardour of his disposition, imbibed much more
readily than his brother the strong party views which characterized the Jacobites as a body.

In James, Earl of Derwentwater, the convictions of his faith, grounded as they are upon the
belief of those great truths common to all Christians, worked healthfully; expanding the benevolence
of his heart, teaching him mercy, moderation, and forbearance. On Charles, impetuous, zealous,
stronger in intellect than his brother, but devoid of prudence, the same mode of culture, the
same precepts acted differently. He became, even in early life, violent in his opinions, until
the horror of what he deemed error, amounted to bigotry. Henceforth his destiny was swayed
by those fierce resentments towards the opposite party by which not only his brother, but even
the Chevalier himself, seem to have been so rarely actuated; a remarkable degree of moderation
and candour raising the character of James Stuart, whilst Lord Derwentwater was the gentlest
of opponents, the most honourable of foes.

In early life Charles Radcliffe appears to have been chiefly dependent upon his brother's kindness
and bounty; whilst his pursuits and inclinations, characterized in a letter by Lord Derwentwater
as his "pleasures," were of an expensive description. But it was not long before other causes
of concern besides want of money, or a love of dissipation began to disquiet those who were
interested in the welfare of the Radcliffe family. About the year 1710, the young Earl of Derwentwater
returned from the continent to his patrimonial property at Dilstone, in Northumberland, accompanied
by his brother Francis, and by Charles who either frequently visited him, or wholly resided
with him at his seat. During this period of the life of Charles Radcliffe, an insight into
the general state of the family is afforded by several letters, addressed by the Earl of Derwentwater
to Lady Swinburne of Capheaton, whom he styles his "cousin." The relationship between these
families originated in the marriage of Mrs. Lawson, daughter of Sir William Fenwick of Meldon,
after the death of her first husband, with Francis, first Earl of Derwentwater, and grandfather
of James Radcliffe, and of his brothers. Mrs. Lawson's daughter, Isabel, married Sir John Swinburne
of Capheaton who was rescued from a singular fate by one of the Radcliffe family. When a child,
he was sent to a monastery in France, where a member of that family accidentally saw him, and
observing that he resembled the Swinburnes in Northumberland, he inquired his name, and how
he came there? To these questions, the monks answered that they knew not his name; a sum of
money was sent annually from England to defray his expenses; but of all other particulars they
were wholly ignorant. On investigating the matter, it was found, however, that the child had
been taught that his name was Swinburne; and that circumstance, coupled with the mysterious
disappearance of the heir of that family from Northumberland induced the superior of the convent
to permit his return home, where he identified himself to be the son of John Swinburne and
of Jane Blount, by the description which he gave of the marks of a cat, and of a punchbowl,
which were still in the house.[400] He was afterwards advanced by Charles the Second to the
dignity of a baronet.

To Mary, the daughter of Anthony Englefield, of Whiteknights, Berks, and wife of Sir William
Swinburne, of Capheaton, the son of that man whose childhood has so romantic a story associated
with it, the following letters are addressed. Of these, the first is written by the celebrated
John Radcliffe, Physician to Queen Anne. Dr. Radcliffe was probably a distant relation of the
family, although no distinctive trace of that connection appears: he was a native of Wakefield,
near Yorkshire; but when these letters were written, he had attained the highest eminence in
his profession that could be secured by one man; and was in the possession of wealth which
he eventually employed in the foundation of the Radcliffe Library, at Oxford.[401] The "Mr.
Radcliffe" to whom he refers, and to whose malady his skill was called upon to administer,
was Colonel Thomas Radcliffe, the uncle of Lord Derwentwater: the patient was at the time suffering
from mental delusion, in consequence of a fever.

THESE TO SIR WILLIAM SWINBURNE AT CAPHEATON.

                                                       Dec. 6, 1709.

    "Sir,

    "Yours I received, and am very glad to hear that yourself and my
    lady is in so good health. I hope in a short time Mr. Radcliffe will
    be so too. He is recovered; but he had such a severe fever that he
    continues weak still. My Lord Derwentwater and his brother"
    (Francis) "and Mr. Fenwick, are all come safe from Holland, and are
    very well, and we shall drink your health together this night. He
    intends to be with you very speedily in the country. I do not doubt
    that you will extremely like his conversation: for he has a great
    many extraordinary good qualities, and I do not doubt but he will be
    as well beloved as his uncle. My most humble service to your lady
    and the rest of the good family, and I wish you a merry Christmas;
    and that I might be so happy as to take a share of it with you,
    would be a great satisfaction to him who is your most obliged and
    most faithful, humble servant,

                                                   "JOHN RADCLIFFE."

The next letter is from Sir William Swinburne to his lady; in this he speaks of the pleasure
with which Lord Derwentwater had returned to Dilstone, the seat of his ancestors, which he
was, in so few short years, to forfeit.

TO MY LADY SWINBURNE, AT CAPHEATON.

                                            Beaufort, 7th Feb. 1710.

    "Dear Love!

    "My Lord" (Derwentwater) "is very well pleased with Dilstone, and
    says it answers all that he has heard of it: but is resolved to
    build a new house, though Roger Fenwick told him he thought his
    lordship need not alter a stone of it. Upon Thursday my lord dines
    at Dilstone. Yours for ever,

                                                 "WILLIAM SWINBURNE.

    "P.S. I understand my lord intends to be at Capheaton on Saturday,
    and then upon Tuesday at Witton, and so for Widdrington. My lord's
    leg is a little troublesome; but he intends to hunt the fox
    to-morrow, and it is a rule all to be abed at ten o'clock the night.
    Here is old Mr. Bacon and his son, Mr. Fenwick, of Bywell. My lord
    killed a squirl, and Sir Marmaduke a pheasant or two, and myself
    one, this morning--which is all, &c."

The following letter from Lord Derwentwater, to Lady Swinburne, shows that the illness which
occasioned so much uneasiness was obstinate: it affords a curious sample of the medical treatment
of Dr. Radcliffe, who kindly, and perhaps wisely, humoured his patient in the desire to go
to Newcastle.

    "I have been just now with my dear uncle, and Jack Thornton was with
    me. He received us very well: but is yet unease about those people
    that disturb him, and he says that he must go down to Newcastle by
    sea, or else he will never get quitte of them. This is an ode fancy;
    but I believe we shall comply with it, for the doctor dous not sime
    very averce to it, and was for sending Joseph back with him; but I
    have taken the horse into my stable, for I feared it mit hurt the
    horse to return so soon. In fin, I fansed Sir William would like the
    value of the horse better than to have him sent back. I have been
    offered eighteen pound. I would have Sir William let me know by the
    next post whether he will have the horse or the money. I shall have
    the honor to whrit to him very soon."

The two following epistles, one from Lady Derwentwater, the other from the Earl, speak of married
happiness, alloyed, not only by the distempered fancies of an invalid uncle, but by the melancholy
accounts of a brother's behaviour. It does not, however, appear certain which of the brothers,
whether Francis or Charles, was thus alluded to.

FOR THE HONOURABLE LADY SWINEBURNE, JUNIOR, AT CAPHEATON.

                                                 "Hadcross, Aug. 17.

    "I have manny thanks to returne your ladyship for the favour of your
    letter and oblidging congratulations. My Lord Darwenwater's great
    merit and agreable temper makes me think I have all the prospect
    imadgenable of being intierly happy. I desier the favour your
    ladyship will present my humble sarvise to Sir William. My father
    and mother joinse with me in this, and dessiers there complements
    to your ladyship, I beg you will be assured that I am, very much
    madam, your ladyship's most humble servant.

                                                   "A. DARVENWATAR."

FOR MY LADY SWINBURNE, AT THE BLEW BALL, IN ST. JAMES'S PLACE, NEAR ST. JAMES'S, LONDON.

                                                "Heatherope, Feb. 7.

    "Madam,

    "I fear'd the good news Miechal writ Gibson, might be false; because
    I have not heard anything of it from yourself, nor from my uncle,
    who, I flatter myself, would writ a line to give me so much
    satisfaction: but I hope all my doubts will vanish if your ladyship
    does me the favour to confirm what will be so great a content to us.
    If I could but be sure that my dear uncle avows all his fancys about
    the men he thought spoke to him, to be nothing but the unlucky
    effect of his favour,[402] and that he thinks to come over to manage
    his affairs, will be the most credeble and most kind way of
    proceeding, both as to himself and family, then I shall believe he
    was the same man he was befor, which, if you confirm, will be one of
    the most joyfull and the most unexpected good news that could befall
    your ladyship's humble, obedient servant, and affectionate kindsman,

                                                      "DARWENTWATER.

    "I should have writ to your ladyship sooner, and really can have no
    good excuse: for I should have write to my dear cousen, though my
    head was full of fox-hunting: and though I had a mind to banish out
    of a new-married head some melancholic accounts of my brother's
    behaviour, which I suppose you have had intelligence of, or else of
    my dear wife's second miscarriage, which has been a great affliction
    to us, but I flatter myself with the hope of her having better luck
    another time. She presents her humble service, and so does my Lady
    Webb. I hope Sir William was well, and cosen Jacky, when you heard
    last. My brother Charles has been at Sir Marmeduke Constable's, and
    designs for London. Adieu!"

In May 1714, only one year before the fatal insurrection of 1715 broke out, the following letter,
referring to different members of his family, was written by the Earl. What a pleasing picture
of an affectionate nature does this correspondence afford.[403]

FOR MY LADY SWINBURNE, JUNIOR, AT CAPHEATON.

                                          "Kathcrosse, May, 6, 1714.

    "Now I write with pleasure to your ladyship, since I hope to be so
    happy as to enjoy your good companie in a few months, I mean
    immediately after York Races, for my two years will be out here the
    tenth of July. Indeed Sir John has behaved himself wonderfully well
    to us quite the holl time, really performing in everything more than
    I could have expected from a man of honnor, as indeed I had reason
    to believe him. My lady is not of so steady a temper; but however,
    we agree very well: and she is mighty fond of my wife, which I take
    very kindly, since as yet we are but one. Never any body could be so
    desirous to goe to the North as my wife is, especially just comming
    from the divertions of London, except your ladyship or myself, who
    longs to be established there, that we may at least be out of the
    way of such inhuman proceedings as we saw, upon all accounts, this
    year at London. My poor dear uncle's case may serve for one
    instance. After getting the better in all the courts, and, that
    lastly, the Lord Chancellor and eleven Judges had given there decree
    in favor of Will. Constable, and my uncle, a factious party, most
    young rakes, have reversed the decree, and given it for Roper, by a
    divition of fifty-three against twenty-three torrys, who were
    resolute enough to appear in a good cause, being forsaken by their
    brethren, who were afraid to be caled favourers of Poperie. I long
    to hear what my uncle will say to this news. If he be well, it will
    nettle him in spite of resignation. Gibson writes word they are at
    Doway; but he does not know when my uncle will sett forwards. I do
    not know where to wish him: for I really don't know how he is. For
    in one letter Gibson writes, he tells me my uncle is as well as ever
    he was in his life; and at the end of the letter he tells me his
    honnor is afraid of being pursude. 'Tis certain my uncle writes in
    another stille than usuall: for, in letters of business he
    continually mentions God Almighty, the Blessed Virgin, and the
    Saints. All I say is, God send him over a comfort to his friends,
    which he must be if he is well. Brother Frank is recovered, but is
    the very same man. Brother Charles is mighty uneasie: he is no
    ritcher, though I doe what I can to help him in his pleasures.

    "Pray my duty to my uncle and aunt, to whom I will write soon, and
    kind services to all other relations.

    "If your ladyship will tell Tom Errington that I have executed the
    leases, and that I wonder cousin Tom Errington is not in for a
    quarter part of Redgroves, and that, supposing there were some such
    valuable reason as my cousin Tom's not being willing to accept of
    it, or having resigned it to one of those mentioned in the lease,
    which by the bye I should take very ill, then that lease of
    Redgrove's may stand good: but otherways I would have the lease
    altered, and my cousin Tom Errington to come in for a quarter part,
    as I promised him he should. In letting him know this, your ladyship
    will oblige your humble and obedient servant and kinsman,

                                                      "DERWENTWATER.

    "My dear wife presents her humble service to your ladyship, and
    desires the same may be made acceptable to all with you. We expect
    Lord Wald and my lady to make my sister happy, who will do the same
    by them."

The felicity which Lord Derwentwater enjoyed was of brief duration. According to tradition
among his descendants, he was urged on to those steps which ended in his death by the violent
counsels of his brother Charles, whose impetuosity the unfortunate earl often regretted, expressing,
in his private correspondence, how much his rash and intemperate spirit distressed and alarmed
him. Of the progress, and the principal features of the insurrection of 1715, and of the part
which Lord Derwentwater took in that event, an account has already been given.[404] "Happy,"
observes the biographer of Charles Radcliffe, "had it been for him, happy for his lady, and
happy for his family, had the earl staid at home, and suffered himself to be withheld from
that fatal expedition."[405]

Charles Radcliffe was at that time twenty-two years of age; he had no experience in military
affairs, but was full of spirit and courage, ready to offer himself for every daring, and even
hopeless enterprise, and seeming to set no value on his life where honour was to be won. Such
a character soon became popular with the leaders of the movement in the north; and Lord Derwentwater
gave the conduct of his tenantry into his brother's hands, Captain Shaftoe commanding under
Mr. Radcliffe.

The behaviour of this young commander throughout the whole of the expedition was consistent
with this character of intrepidity; but that which surprised many persons in a man who had
never before engaged in war, was the judgment, as well as courage, which he displayed. And
perhaps, had his counsels been followed, the result of that ill-starred rising, in which so
many brave men perished, might have been less disastrous to the party whom he espoused. When
the insurgents were at Hexham, and intelligence was brought that General Carpenter was approaching,
Mr. Radcliffe proposed that the Jacobite troops should go out and fight the English before
they had recovered from their long march; but his opinion was overruled. His was that description
of mind which gleans much from observation; he studied the countenances of those around him,
and formed his own conclusion of their characters. When any false alarm happened to be given
that the king's troops were near, it was his practice, undaunted himself, to watch the countenances
of his officers, when they were ordered to head their corps, and march against the enemy. Some
of them, he observed, turned pale, and looked half-dead with fear; the eyes of others flashed
with fire and fury: on these, he was certain that a dependence might be placed in the time
of action, whilst he forbore from placing the others in any post of responsibility. Nor were
his own party the only subjects of his curiosity. Until this eventful period of his life, he
had seen but little of the world, "and now," observes his biographer, "he fancied himself on
his travels." He therefore passed over no object of interest cursorily; at every town he visited,
he inquired what were the customs of the place--what monuments of celebrated men, or other
objects of antiquity were to be found there; and of these he made written notes; whilst in
the council and the camp, he studied the tempers and passions of men.

When, upon the forces arriving at Hawick, the Highlanders mutinied, and going to the top of
a rising ground declared that they would not stir a step farther, but would march with Lord
Wristoun to the west of Scotland, Mr. Radcliffe thought their views reasonable, and advocated
the endeavour to strike a bold stroke in Scotland, and to aim at the entire conquest of that
kingdom. His opinion, which events justified, was overruled, and the leaders of his party were
resolute in continuing their fatal and rash project of proceeding to England. Mr. Radcliffe,
on finding that his representations were ineffectual, begged that he might have an hundred
horse given to him, that with them he might try his fortune with the Highlanders: this was
also denied him, for fear of weakening the force; and he was constrained to proceed with his
confederates in arms to Preston.

In the action at that place, Mr. Radcliffe behaved with a heroism that deserved a happier fate.
It was a fine sight to behold him and his brother Lord Derwentwater, endeavouring to animate
their men, by words and example, and maintaining their ground with unequalled bravery, obliging
the king's forces to retire. During the action Mr. Radcliffe encountered the utmost danger,
standing in the midst of the firing, and doing as much duty as the lowest soldiers in the ranks.
But his life was spared only to encounter a more disastrous termination, after a long and wearisome
exile. When, being invested on all sides by the enemy, the insurgents proposed a capitulation,
the gallant young man exclaimed, "that he would rather die, with his sword in his hand, like
a man of honour, than be dragged to the gallows, there to die like a dog." These exclamations
fell unheeded; and he was obliged to submit with the rest; soon afterwards, this fine, high-spirited
youth, was carried to Newgate, there to await his trial, in company with his companions in
error and misfortune.

In Newgate, Mr. Radcliffe witnessed a scene of desperation, accompanied with the ordinary circumstances
of licentiousness, and reckless misery, which, unchecked by adequate regulations, the prisons
of that day afforded. Until after the execution of Lord Derwentwater and of Lord Kenmure had
taken place, hopes of a reprieve sustained the unhappy prisoners in Newgate, and, "flaunting
apparel, venison pasties," wine, and other luxuries, for which they paid an enormous price,
were the ordinary indulgences of those who were incarcerated in that crowded receptacle.[406]

Contributions were made from many different quarters for the prisoners; and the friends of
the "rebels" were observed to be also very generous to the turnkeys. Numbers of ladies visited
the prison, and a choice of the most expensive viands was daily proffered by the lavish kindness
of their fair enthusiasts. Of course much scandal followed upon the steps of this dangerous
and costly kindness; and escapes were facilitated, perhaps, not without connivance on the part
of Government. On the fourteenth of March an attempt was made by some of these unfortunate
people to get out of the press-yard, by breaking through a part of the wall, from which they
were to be let down by a rope; but they were discovered, and, in consequence, heavily ironed.
Nevertheless, on the twenty-third of March almost all of the prisoners were released from their
fetters, an indulgence which was a proof of the lenity of the Government, as the ordinary keepers
of the prison would not have dared to have allowed it.[407] After this, Mr. Forster and others
amused themselves with the game of shuttlecock, at which, relates the author of the Secret
History of the Rebels in Newgate, the "valiant Forster beat every one who engaged him: so that
he triumphed with his feathers in the prison, though he could not do it in the field." On the
tenth of April that gentleman made his escape: and henceforth, a lieutenant, with thirty of
the Foot Guards, was ordered to do constant duty at Newgate. Meantime, crowded as the building
was, a spotted fever broke out, and seemed likely to relieve the civil authorities from no
small number of the unfortunate prisoners.

On the eighth of May, Mr. Radcliffe was arraigned at the Exchequer Bar, at Westminster, for
High Treason: to this he pleaded not guilty. In a few days afterwards he was brought there
again, and tried upon the indictment; he had no plea to offer in his defence, and was found guilty.

He soon afterwards was carried to Westminster, accompanied by eleven other prisoners, to receive
sentence of death. They were conveyed in six coaches to the Court. As the coach in which Mr.
Radcliffe was seated, drove into Fleet Street, it encountered the state carriage in which George
the First, who was then going to Hanover for the first time since his accession, was driving.
This obliged Mr. Radcliffe's coach to stop; and, perceiving that he was opposite to a distiller's
shop, he called for a pint of aniseed, which he and a fellow-prisoner, with a servant of Newgate,
drank, and then proceeded to Westminster.

Mr. Radcliffe was several times reprieved; and it was thought he might have been pardoned;
but affrighted, perhaps, by his brother's fate, and probably weary of imprisonment, he now
began to project a plan of escape, to which he was emboldened by the great success of several
similar attempts. Greater vigilance was, indeed, resorted to in the prison, after the flight
of Brigadier Mackintosh, who had knocked down the turnkey, and ran off through the streets:
and all cloaks, riding-hoods, and arms, were prohibited being brought in by the visiters who
came to visit the prisoners. It is amusing to hear, that a certain form of riding-hoods acquired,
at this time, the name of a Nithsdale, in allusion to the escape of the Earl of Nithsdale.[408]

On the day appointed for Mr. Radcliffe's escape, the prisoners gave a grand entertainment in
Newgate: this took place in a room called the Castle, in the higher part of the prison. Mr.
Radcliffe, when the party were at the highest of their mirth, observing a little door open
in the corner of the room, passed through it followed by thirteen of the prisoners; and succeeded
in finding their way, unmolested, to the debtor's side, where the turnkey, not knowing them,
and supposing them to be visiters to the prisoners, allowed them to pass on. Mr. Radcliffe
was dressed in mourning, and had, according to his own subsequent account to a fellow prisoner
in Newgate, a "brown tye-wig." In this way, without any disguise, but wearing his ordinary
attire, did he escape, leaving within the prison walls, his friend, Basil Hamilton, nephew
of the Duke of Hamilton, who, as it was deposed on his trial, was his chum, or companion, living
with him in a room, the windows of which looked upon the garden of the College of Physicians.
After remaining concealed for some time, Mr. Radcliffe took the first opportunity of getting
a passage to France.[409] He lived, for many years, in Paris, in great poverty, tantalized
with promises of assistance from the French Court, yet witnessing the ungenerous treatment
of the Chevalier by that Court. His nephew, John Radcliffe, who was killed accidentally, assisted
him with remittances in 1730 for some time, and James Stuart gave him a small pension: his
difficulties and privations must have been considerable; yet they never lessened his ardour
in the cause for which he had sacrificed every worldly advantage.

Either to amend his ruined fortunes, or to gratify a passion long unrequited, Mr. Radcliffe
was resolved upon marriage. The object of his hopes was Charlotte Maria, Countess of Newburgh,
the widow of Hugh, Lord Clifford of Chudleigh, and the mother of two daughters by that nobleman.
This lady was about a year older than himself, being born in 1694. It is a tradition in the
family of Lord Petre, the lineal descendant of James, Earl of Derwentwater, that Charles Radcliffe
offered his hand twelve times to the Countess of Newburgh, and was as often refused. Wearied
by his importunity, Lady Newburgh at last forbade him the house. But the daring character of
Mr. Radcliffe, and his strong will, suggested an expedient, and he was resolved to obtain an
interview. To compass this end, he actually descended into an apartment in which the Countess
was sitting, through the chimney; and taking her by surprise, obtained her consent to an union.
Of the truth of this curious courtship, there is tolerably good evidence, not only in the belief
of the Petre family, but from a picture representing the fact, which is at Thorndon.[410] The
nuptials took place at Brussels, in the church of the Virgin Mary, on the twenty-fourth of
June, 1724,[411] and in 1726, James Bartholomew, who became, after the death of his mother,
third Earl of Newburgh, was born at Vincennes.[412]

Lady Newburgh had every reason, as far as prudence could be allowed to dictate to the affections,
for her reluctance to a marriage with Mr. Radcliffe. He was, at this time, an outlawed man,
with a sentence of death passed upon him, and no hope could ever be revived of his regaining,
even after the death of his nephew, the family honours and estates. Yet, in the ardour and
fearlessness of Charles Radcliffe's character there must have been much to compensate for those
circumstances, and to win the fancy of the young. There seems no reason to suppose that the
union thus strangely formed was infelicitous; and indeed, from family documents, it is evident
that the family so marked out by fate for sorrow, were happy in their mutual affection. Of
the two daughters of Lady Newburgh's first marriage, Anna, the eldest, was married to the Count
de Mahony, whose descendants, the Gustiniani might claim the title of Newburgh, were they not
debarred by being born aliens. Another was Frances, who died unmarried. This lady is mentioned
in a letter written by Charles Radcliffe, recently before his death, when he was confined to
the Tower, with peculiar affection, as "that other tender mother of my dear children."[413]

In the year 1733, Mr. Radcliffe visited England, and resided several months in Pall Mall; yet
the ministry did not consider it necessary to take any notice of his return, nor, probably,
would they ever have concerned themselves on that subject, had not a second insurrection brought
the unfortunate man into notice. In 1735, he again returned, and endeavoured by the mediation
of friends to procure a pardon, but was unsuccessful in that attempt.[414]

Irritated, perhaps, by that refusal, and still passionately attached to the cause which he
had espoused; undeterred by the execution of his brother, or by the sufferings of his friends,
from mixing himself in the turmoils of a second contest, Charles Radcliffe, on the breaking
out of the insurrection of 1745, again ventured his life on the hazard. He had no lands to
lose, no estates to forfeit; but he had all to gain; for the death of his nephew made him the
head of the unfortunate house of Radcliffe. After that event, he assumed the title of Earl
of Derwentwater, and it was of course assigned to him at the court of St. Germains, and indeed
always insisted upon by him; but the estates were alienated, and there appeared no hope under
the present government of ever recovering those once enviable possessions. Under these circumstances,
Mr. Radcliffe was naturally a likely object for the representations of the sanguine, or the
intrigues of the designing to work upon; and in this temper of mind he met, in the year 1743,
with John Murray of Broughton, at Paris, where that gentleman remained three weeks; and became
intimately acquainted with Mr. Radcliffe, who is described among others, as a "wretched dependant
on French pensions, with difficulty obtained, and accompanied with contempt in the payment."

While the fashionable world were diverting themselves with epigrams upon the Rebellion, a small
expedition was fitted out, consisting of twenty French officers, and sixty Scotch and Irish,
who embarked at Dunkirk on board the Esperance privateer; among these was Charles Radcliffe
and his eldest son.

One of the first adverse circumstances that befel the Jacobites in 1745, was the capture of
the vessel in which Mr. Radcliffe hoped to reach the shores of Scotland. It was taken during
the month of November by the Sheerness man-of-war; and Mr. Radcliffe and his son were carried
to London and imprisoned in the Tower.

On the twenty-first of November he was conveyed, under a strong guard from the Tower, to Westminster;
he was brought to the bar, by virtue of a Habeas Corpus, and the record of his former conviction
and attainder was at the same time removed there by Certiorari. These being read to him, the
prisoner prayed that counsel might be allowed him; and named Mr. Ford and Mr. Jodrel, who were
accordingly assigned to him as counsel. A few days were granted to prepare the defence, and
on the twenty-fourth of the month the prisoner was again brought up; he pleaded that he was
not the person named in the record, who was described as Charles Radcliffe, but maintained
that he was the Earl of Derwentwater. He also requested that the trial might be put off, that
two witnesses, one from Brussels, the other from St. Germains, might be summoned. This was
refused. The prisoner then challenged one of the jury, but that challenge was overruled. During
these proceedings the lofty, arrogant manner, and the vehement language of Mr. Radcliffe drew
from his counsel the remark that he was disordered in his senses. The judge, Mr. Justice Foster,
who tried the case, bore his contemptuous conduct with great forbearance. When brought into
Court, to be arraigned, he would neither hold up his hand, nor plead, insisting that he was
a subject of France, and appealing to the testimony of the Neapolitan Minister, who happened
to be in Court. But not one of these objections was allowed, and the trial proceeded.

No fresh indictment was framed, and the point at issue related merely to the identity of the
prisoner. The award in Mr. Radcliffe's case was agreeable to the precedent in the case of Sir
Walter Raleigh, and execution was awarded on his former offence, judgment not being again pronounced,
having been given on the former arraignment. This mode of proceeding might be law, but no one
after the lapse of thirty years, and the frequent communications of the prisoner with the English
Government, can regard such a proceeding as justice: and, as in the case of Sir Walter Raleigh,
it brought odium upon the memory of James the First, so it excited in the reign of George the
Second almost universal commiseration for the sufferer, and disgust at the course adopted.

The evidence in this case was far from being such as would be accepted in the present day.

Two Northumberland men were sworn to the fact that the prisoner at the bar was the younger
brother of the Earl of Derwentwater, and that they had seen him march out from Hexham, in Northumberland,
at the head of five hundred of Lord Derwentwater's tenantry; they recognized him, as they declared,
by a scar on his face; they had been to see him in the Tower, to refresh their memories, and
could swear to him, as Charles Radcliffe, brother of the Earl of Derwentwater. After this deposition,
Roger Downs, a person who had acted in the capacity of barber to the State prisoners, in 1715,
was called.

To him Mr. Radcliffe thus addressed himself:[416] "I hope, sir, you have some conscience; you
are now sworn, and take heed what you say."

To this Downs replied; "I shall speak nothing but the truth. I well remember that I was appointed
close shaver at Newgate, in the year 1715 and 1716, when the rebels were confined there, and
shaved all those who were close confined."

The Counsel then asked, "Pray, sir, did you shave Charles Radcliffe, Esquire, the late Earl
of Derwentwater's brother, who was confined in Newgate for being concerned in the rebellion
in the year 1715, or who else did you shave of the said rebels at that time? And pray, sir,
who was keeper, or who were turnkeys of the said gaol of Newgate."

The answer of Downs was couched in these words, "William Pitt, Esq. was head keeper, and Mr.
Rouse, and Mr. Revel, were head turnkeys, who appointed my master to be barber, to shave the
prisoners; and I attended in my master's stead, and used to go daily to wait on the rebel prisoners,
and I particularly remember that I shaved Basil Hamilton, a reputed nephew of the late Duke
of Hamilton, and Charles Radcliffe, Esq., brother to the late Earl of Derwentwater, who I perfectly
remember were chums, or companions, in one room, in the press-yard, in Newgate, that looked
into the garden of the College of Physicians, and for which service I was always very well paid."

The Counsel then desired him to look at the prisoner and inform the Court if that gentleman
were the very same Charles Radcliffe that he shaved in Newgate, at the aforesaid time, and
who after escaped out of Newgate.

To this Downs returned the following reply: "I cannot on my oath say he is."

Then the head keeper of Newgate was called, and he produced the books belonging to the gaol,
wherein were the names of Charles Radcliffe, and other rebels, who had been condemned, and
were respited several times. This gentleman said, that the books produced then in Court were
in the same condition that he found them: but as to the person of the prisoner he knew nothing,
his confinement having taken place several years before he belonged to the gaol.

Abraham Mosely, a servant of the head keeper, was then called, but he was not sworn; another
gentleman was afterwards brought to the bar; as the book was handed to him to be sworn, Mr.
Radcliffe, looking earnestly at him, inquired what book it was that he was going to be sworn
upon: the officer answered it was the New Testament. Mr. Radcliffe replied, "He is no Christian,
and believes neither in God nor devil." The evidence of this witness, whose name is suppressed,
was, however, received, and it seems not to have been inconsistent with his alleged character.
It was the disclosure of a confidential conversation on the part of Mr. Radcliffe, who had
imparted to the witness in what manner he had escaped from Newgate in 1715. The witness was
asked whether the prisoner was drunk when he made this confession: he answered that he was.
Then being asked if he were drunk himself, he replied that he never got drunk; upon which Mr.
Radcliffe said hastily, that "some people would get drunk if at free cost."

The prisoner examining no witnesses, the Chief Justice summed up the case, and in ten or fifteen
minutes the jury, who had retired, brought in a verdict of guilty. A Rule was then made for
the proper writ for the execution of the prisoner, on the eighth of December, and he was remanded
to the Tower. When informed by the Court of the time fixed for his doom, Mr. Radcliffe said
he wished they had given him a longer time, that so he might have been able to acquaint some
people in France, and that his brother, the Earl of Morton, and he might "have set out on their
journey together."

The unhappy Mr. Radcliffe returned to his prison. Much has been written of the arrogance and
intemperance of his conduct and language, but much must be allowed for the subservience of
the contemporary writers, as well as for the irritated feelings of the man. Considering himself
as a nobleman, and meeting with disrespect, and, perhaps, harsh usage, a quick temper was aggravated
almost to madness. To his inferiors the passion and pride of his character were so offensive
that the warders of the Tower could be scarcely induced to give him their attendance; and this
inconvenience was the more severely felt as a man named McDermont, who had been his equerry
for twenty-three years, was sent to Newgate on the very day when Mr. Radcliffe entered the Tower.

At the hour of his last earthly trial, this man, whose eventful and singular life was brought
to a close at the age of fifty-three, redeemed the errors of the last few weeks of anguish,
and of bitter disappointment. He submitted calmly to his doom. The sullen sorrow, and the intolerable
haughtiness of his manner, were exchanged for a composure, solemn and affecting, and for a
courtesy which well became the brother of Lord Derwentwater.

Between eight and nine on the morning of the eighth of December, the Sheriff, driving in a
mourning coach to the east gate of the Tower, demanded the prisoner. The gate was opened, and
in about ten minutes a landau, in which Mr. Radcliffe was seated, drove out at the east gate,
towards Little Tower Hill. He was accompanied by the Under-Sheriffs, and by the officers of
the Tower: the landau was surrounded by a party of Foot Guards, with their bayonets fixed.
The street was lined with horse soldiers, from the iron gate of the Tower, to the scaffold,
which was encompassed also with horse soldiers. At the foot of the stairs of the scaffold a
booth was erected, for the reception of the prisoner.

Like Lord Balmerino, Mr. Radcliffe wore his regimentals, which were those of the French army;
and consisted of a scarlet coat, with gold buttons, the sleeves faced with black velvet; a
scarlet waistcoat, trimmed with gold lace; and white silk stockings. His hat was encircled
with a white feather.

As the prisoner alighted from the landau, he saw some of his friends standing near the booth;
he paid his compliments to them with the grace of a well-bred man; and, smiling, asked of the
sheriffs, who had preceded him in the mourning-coach, "if he was to enter the booth?" He was
answered in the affirmative. "It is well," he replied; and he went in, and there passed about
ten minutes in his devotions.

The scaffold had been provided early that morning with a block, covered with black, a cushion,
and two sacks of sawdust; and the coffin of the unhappy prisoner, also covered with black,
was placed on the stage.

Mr. Radcliffe ascended the scaffold with great calmness, and asked for the executioner. "I
am but a poor man," said the unfortunate man, "but there are ten guineas for you: if I had
more, I would give it you; do your execution so as to put me to the least possible misery."
He then kneeled down, and folding his hands, uttered a short prayer. He arose, and was then
assisted by two of the warders in the last preparations for his doom, taking off his coat and
waistcoat, and substituting for his wig a white cap. Having taken a respectful leave of the
sheriffs, he was about to kneel down, when it was discovered that it would be necessary to
tuck back the collar of his shirt. That office was performed by the executioner. Then, after
saying a short prayer, and crossing himself several times, he laid his head upon the block.
In less than half a minute afterwards, he gave the signal, by spreading out his hands: his
head was severed at one blow, and the body fell upon the scaffold. The executioner, searching
his pockets, found in them a silver crucifix, his beads, and half-a-guinea. No friend attended
the man who had been so long exiled from his own country, on the scaffold; but four undertakers'
men stood, with a piece of red cloth, to receive the head of the ill-fated Charles Radcliffe.
His body, being wrapt in a blanket, was put into the coffin, with his head, and conveyed to
the Nag's Head, in Gray's Inn Lane, and thence, in the dead of the night, to Mr. Walmsbey's,
North Street, Red Lion Square, whence it was removed to be interred in the church-yard of St.
Giles's-in-the-Fields, where a neglected stone alone marks his burial-place. The following
is the inscription on the coffin:--"Carolus Radcliffe, comes de Derwentwater, decollatus, die
8vo. Decembris, 1746, ætatis 53." To this were added the words, so appropriate to the close
of an adventurous life, "Requiescat in pace."

Desolate as these last hours appear to have been, and uncheered by the presence of a friend,
some tender care was directed to the remains of the unfortunate sufferer. His head was afterwards
sewn on to the body by a dependant of Lord Petre's family, a woman of the name of Thretfall,
whose grandson, a carpenter, who lived for many years at Ingatestone Hall, Essex, a seat of
Lord Petre's, used to relate to the happier children of a later generation (the descendants
of James, Earl of Derwentwater), the circumstances, of which he had heard in his childhood.
The Countess of Newburgh was afterwards buried by the side of her husband; and the sexton of
St. Giles's Church, some years since, on the lid of the coffin giving way, perceived some gold
lace in a state of preservation; so that it seems probable that the blanket in which the bleeding
remains were removed, was superseded by the costly and military attire worn by the prisoner.

Previous to his death Mr. Radcliffe wrote to his family. His letters, and all the memorials
of his brother, and of himself, have been sedulously preserved by the family to whom they have
descended. Lady Anna Maria Radcliffe, the only daughter of James, Earl of Derwentwater, married
in 1732, James, eighth Baron Petre, of Writtle, county Essex. A connexion had already subsisted
between the families, a sister of Lord Derwentwater having married a Petre of the collateral
branch, seated at Belhouse, in Essex, which branch is now extinct.

Lady Anna Radcliffe appears to have entertained the deepest reverence for her father's memory,
and to have held all that belonged to him, or that related to his fate, sacred. She caused
a large mahogany chest to be made to receive the clothes which he wore on the scaffold, and
also the covering of the block; likewise, a cast of his face taken after death: and having
deposited these relics in the chest, she added a written paper with her seal and signature,
Anne Petre, authenticating the said apparel and documents, and solemnly forbidding any of her
descendants or other persons to make use of the chest for any other purpose, but "to contain
her father's clothes, unless some other receptacle more costly be by them provided." This box
is deposited in a room at Thorndon Hall, with letters and papers relating both to James, Lord
Derwentwater, and to his brother Charles.

The eldest son of Mr. Radcliffe, called the Lord Kinnaird, in right of the Barony of Kinnaird,
remained a prisoner in the Tower at the time of his father's execution; and the uncertainty
of that young man's fate must greatly have added to the distress of his father. In the spring
of 1746, he was suffered to return to France, on a cartel, an exchange of prisoners including
him as a native of France. The circumstance to which the youth owed his long imprisonment,
was a report which gained ground that he was the second son of James Stuart, Henry Benedict,
whom the English political world believed, at that time, to be on the eve of going to Ireland,
and under this impression, the mob followed the young man as he was conveyed from the vessel
to the Tower with insults. Before returning to France, he was received by the Duke of Richmond,
his mother's relative, with great consideration, and entertained at what Horace Walpole terms
"a great dinner."[417] Such was what the same author calls the Stuartism in some of the highest
circles.

Lord Kinnaird afterwards put in a claim for the reversion of the Derwentwater estate, but without
success, for it had already been sold by the Commissioners. A scene of iniquitous fraud, in
the sale of the forfeited estate belonging to Lord Derwentwater was afterwards detected by
Lord Gage, for which Dennis Bond, Esquire, and Sergeant Birch, Commissioners of the sale, were
expelled the House.[418] In 1749, an Act was passed vesting the several estates of James, Earl
of Derwentwater in trustees, for the benefit of Greenwich Hospital; but, out of the funds thus
arising, 30,000l. was appropriated to the widowed Countess of Newburgh, and the interest of
the remaining 24,000l., was to be paid to James Bartholomew, Lord Kinnaird, during his life,
and after his death the principal to revert to his eldest son.[419] From the Chevalier, the
widowed Countess of Newburgh received, as the following letter will shew, much kindness and
sympathy; the conduct of James to his fallen and powerless adherents, appears to have been
almost invariably marked by compassion and generosity. The Countess of Newburgh survived her
husband ten years, during which time the affection of the Chevalier, and of his sons, for her
husband's memory was evinced by kindness to his widow, as the following letter testifies:--

LADY DERWENTWATER TO THE CHEVALIER DE ST. GEORGE.[420]

    Sir,

    I received the honour of our Majesty's most gracious letter, and beg
    leave to return my grateful thanks. Your Majesty is very good in
    commending my dear Lord who did but his duty: he gave his life most
    willingly for your Majesty's service, and I am persuaded that your
    Majesty never had a subject more attacht to his duty than he was.
    The Prince of Wales and the Duke of York have been so good to show a
    great concern for my loss, and recommended most strongly to the King
    of France my famyly. His Majesty has been most extremely good and
    gracious to them. My son, that was Captain in Dillon's, has now the
    Brevet of Colonel reform'd with appointments of 1800 livres a-year;
    his sisters have 150 livres a-year each of them, with his royal
    promis of his protection of the famyly for ever. The Marquise de
    Mezire, and her daughter the Princess de Monteban have been most
    extremely friendly to my famyly in this affair.

    I am, your Majesty's most dutyfull subject,

                                             CHARLOTTE DERWENTWATER.
        St. Germains,
    February, ye 10th, 1747.

Of the Countess's two younger sons, one, James Clement Radcliffe, an officer in the French
service, survived till 1788, the other, who bore his father's name, Charles, died in 1749.
Three of her daughters died unmarried, but Lady Mary, the fourth, married Francis Eyre, Esq.,
of Walworth Castle, Northamptonshire. On the failure of the issue of three sons, in 1814 the
title of Newburgh passed into the family of Eyre through the marriage of the above Mary, and
devolved upon Francis Eyre, the grandson of Charlotte Countess of Newburgh, and of Charles
Radcliffe, father of the present Earl of Newburgh.

By the marriage of Lady Anne Radcliffe, the only daughter of James, Earl of Derwentwater, in
1732, to Robert James, eighth Baron Petre, the present Lord Petre is the rightful representative
of that attainted nobleman, being the third in direct descent from Lady Anne Radcliffe, whose
only brother, John,[421] was killed accidentally abroad, having never been married.[422]

In concluding this account of the unfortunate Charles Radcliffe, a reflection naturally arises
in the mind, how different would have been the spirit of administration in the present day
to that which the government of that period displayed:--how great would have been the horror
of shedding the blood of honourable and valiant men; how universal the sentiment of mournful
commiseration; and how strong the conviction, that men, so true to an ill fated cause, would
have been faithful to any engagements which required them to abandon their efforts in that
cause; had clemency, but too imperfectly understood in those turbulent and merciless times,
excited their gratitude, and for ever ensured their fidelity.

FOOTNOTES:

[399] "Genuine and Impartial Memoirs of the Life and Character of Charles Radcliffe, wrote
by a Gentleman of the Family, (Mr. Eyre,) to prevent the public being imposed on by any erroneous
or partial accounts, to the prejudice of this unfortunate gentleman." London, printed for the
Proprietor, and sold by E. Cole, 1746.

[400] Hodgson's Hist. of Northumberland, vol. ii. p. 227, note.

[401] Ibid. p. 233.

[402] Fever.

[403] At Thorndon, the seat of Lord Petre, in Norfolk, are other original letters of Lord Derwentwater,
referring to his wife. In most touching terms he thanks the mother of Lady Derwentwater for
having "given her to him." This, and other interesting documents, are highly prized, and consequently
carefully preserved by the ancient and noble family to whom they have descended.

[404] See Life of Lord Derwentwater, vol. i.

[405] Ibid. 14.

[406] Secret History of the Rebels in Newgate, 3rd edition, London, 1716.

[407] Ibid. p. 8.

[408] Secret History.

[409] State Trials.

[410] For this anecdote, and also for a considerable portion of the materials of this Memoir,
I am indebted to the great kindness and intelligence of the Hon. Mrs. Douglas, daughter of
the present Lord Petre.

[411] Wood's Peerage.

[412] MS. Letter.

[413] I must again refer to the information supplied by the Hon. Mrs. Douglas.

[414] Life of Charles Radcliffe, p. 25.

[415] Letter to G. Montagu, p. 18.

[416] State Trials; quoted from the Impartial History of the late Charles Radcliffe, written
at the time.

[417] Letter to Sir H. Mann, vol. ii. p. 140.

[418] A review of the reign of Geo. II. London. 1762.

[419] Douglas's Peerage, Edit. by Wood.

[420] Brown's Hist. Highlands, (Stuart Papers, Appendix) page 491.

[421] In my first volume, I have stated that the Earl of Newburgh was the direct representative
of James Earl of Derwentwater. (See p. 280, vol. i.) Into this error I was betrayed by an obscure
passage in Burke's Extinct Peerage.

I am indebted to the Hon. Mrs. Douglass, to whom I have before expressed my obligations, for
a correction of this mistake, and also for the copy of the pedigree in the Appendix. This lady
has also explained the reason why so many accounts have stated that the body of James Earl
of Derwentwater was interred in St. Giles's Church-yard. His body was privately removed to
Dagenham Park, in Essex, a house his Countess had hired in order to be near London. A report,
meanwhile, was circulated by his friends that he had been buried in St. Giles's; and, when
no further danger of tumult was to be apprehended, the remains of the Earl were deposited with
his ancestors in the vaults of the chapel at Dilstone.

The mother of the present Mr. Howard, of Corby Castle, and sister of Sir Thomas Neave, Bart.,
has often related to her young relations, that when she and her sisters were children, they
were afraid to pass at night along the gallery at Dagenham, it being popularly supposed that
Lord Derwentwater still walked there, carrying his head under his arm. This must have been,
at least, seventy years after his death.

[422] See Appendix, No. 2, also note.

APPENDIX

No. I.

This letter was addressed by the Rev. Joseph Spence, author of "Polymetus," and of "Spence's
Anecdotes," and prebend of Durham, to his father, who had forbidden him to enter into the society
of the Chevalier, at Rome.

The Rev. Joseph Spence left this letter, with other MSS. and books, to the late Mrs. Coltman,
mother of Samuel Coltman, Esq., of Darley Dale. It is not dated, but undoubtedly refers to
the Chevalier, James Stuart.

    "Sir,

    "About a month ago, Mr. ---- and I being in search of some of the
    antiquities of your place, we became acquainted with an English
    gentleman, very knowing in this kind of learning, and who proved of
    great use to us; his name is Dr. Cooper, a priest of the Church of
    England, whom we did not suspect to be of the Pretender's retinue,
    but took him to be a curious traveller, which opinion created in me
    a great liking for his conversation. On Easter eve, he made us the
    compliment, that as he supposed us bred in the profession of the
    said Church, he thought it incumbent on him to invite us to divine
    service, next day being Easter Sunday. Such language, at Rome,
    appeared to me a jest. I stared at the Doctor, who added that the
    Pretender (whom he called king), had prevailed with the late pope,
    to grant licence for having divine service according to the rules
    of the Church of England, performed in his palace, for the benefit
    of the Protestant gentlemen of his suite, his domestics, and
    travellers; and that Dr. Berkley and himself were appointed for the
    discharge of this duty; and that prayers were read as ordinarily
    here as in London. I should have remained of St. Thomas's belief,
    had I not been a witness that this is a matter of fact, and as such,
    have noted it down, as one of the greatest wonders of Rome. This was
    the occasion of my first entrance into the Pretender's house: I
    became acquainted with both the Doctors, who are sensible, well-bred
    men. I put several questions to them about the Pretender, and, if
    credit can be given them, they assure me he is a moral, upright man,
    being far from any sort of bigotry, and most averse to disputes and
    distinctions of religion, whereof not a word is admitted in his
    family. They described him in person very much to the resemblance of
    King Charles II., which they say he approaches more and more every
    day, with a great application to business, and a head well turned
    that way, having only some clerks, to whom he dictates such letters
    as he does not write with his own hand. In some days after, my
    friend and I went to take the evening air, in the stately park
    called Villa Ludovici, there we met, face to face, on a sudden, with
    the Pretender, his Princess, and court; we were so very close before
    we understood who they were, that we could not retreat with decency,
    common civility obliged us to stand side-ways in the alley, as
    others did, to let them pass by. The Pretender was easily
    distinguished by his star and garter, as well as by his air of
    greatness, which discovered a majesty superior to the rest. I felt
    at that instant of his approach, a strange convulsion in body and
    mind, such as I never was sensible of before, whether aversion, awe,
    or respect occasioned it, I can't tell: I remarked his eyes fixed on
    me, which, I confess, I could not bear--I was perfectly stunned, and
    not aware of myself, when, pursuant to what the standers-by did, I
    made him a salute; he returned it with a smile, which changed the
    sedateness of his first aspect into a very graceful countenance; as
    he passed by I observed him to be a well-sized, clean-limbed man. I
    had but one glimpse of the Princess, which left me a great desire of
    seeing her again; however, my friend and I turned off into another
    alley, to reason at leisure on our several observations: there we
    met Dr. Cooper, and, after making some turns with him, the same
    company came again in our way. I was grown somewhat bolder, and
    resolved to let them pass as before, in order to take a full view of
    the Princess: she is of a middling stature, well-shaped, and has
    lovely features: wit, vivacity, and mildness of temper, are painted
    in her look. When they came to us, the Pretender stood, and spoke a
    word to the Doctor, then looking at us, he asked him whether we were
    English gentlemen; he asked us how long we had been in town, and
    whether we had any acquaintance in it, then told us he had a house,
    where English gentlemen would be very welcome. The Princess, who
    stood by, addressing herself to the Doctor in the prettiest English
    I think I ever heard, said, 'Pray, Doctor, if these gentlemen be
    lovers of music, invite them to my concert, to-night; I charge you
    with it;' which she accompanied with a salute in the most gracious
    manner. It was a very hard task, sir, to recede from the honour of
    such an invitation, given by a princess, who, although married to
    the Pretender, deserves so much in regard to her person, her house,
    and family. However, we argued the case with the Doctor, and
    represented the strict orders we had to the contrary; he replied,
    there would be no prohibition to a traveller against music, even at
    the ceremonies of the Roman Catholic Church; that if we missed this
    occasion of seeing this assembly of the Roman nobility, we might not
    recover it while we stayed in Rome; and, that it became persons of
    our age and degree to act always the part of gentlemen, without
    regard to party humours. These arguments were more forcible than
    ours, so we went, and saw a bright assembly of the prime Roman
    nobility, the concert composed of the best musicians of Rome, a
    plentiful and orderly collation served; but the courteous and
    affable manner of our reception was more taking than all the rest.
    We had a general invitation given us whilst we stayed in town, and
    were desired to use the palace as our house, we were indispensably
    obliged to make a visit next day, in order to return thanks for so
    many civilities received;--those are things due to a Turk. We were
    admitted without ceremony; the Pretender entertained us on the
    subject of our families as knowingly as if he had been all his life
    in England: he told me some passages of myself and father, and of
    his being against the followers of King Charles I. and II., and
    added, "that if you, sir, had been of age before my grandfather's
    death, to learn his principles, there had been little danger of your
    taking party against the rights of a Stuart."

    "He then observed how far the prejudices of education and wrong
    notions of infancy are apt to carry people from the paths of their
    ancestors: he discoursed as pertinently on several of our
    neighbouring families as I could do, upon which I told him I was
    surprised at his so perfect knowledge of our families in England;
    his answer was, that from his infancy he had made it his business to
    acquire the knowledge of the laws, customs, and families of his
    country, so that he might not be reported a stranger when the
    Almighty pleased to call him thither. These and the like discourses
    held until word was brought that dinner was served; we endeavoured
    all we could to withdraw, but there was no possibility for it after
    he had made us this compliment, "I assure you, Gentlemen, I shall
    never be for straining man's inclinations; however, our
    grandfathers, who were worthy people, dined, and I hope there can be
    no fault found that we do the same." There is every day a regular
    table of ten or twelve covers well served, unto which some of the
    qualified persons of his court, or travellers, are invited: it is
    supplied with English and French cooking, French and Italian wines;
    but I took notice that the Pretender eat only of the English dishes,
    and made his dinner of roast-beef, and what we call Devonshire-pie:
    he also prefers our March beer, which he has from Leghorn, to the
    best wines: at the dessert, he drinks his glass of champagne very
    heartily, and to do him justice, he is as free and cheerful at his
    table as any man I know; he spoke much in favour of our English
    ladies, and said he was persuaded he had not many enemies among
    them; then he carried a health to them. The Princess with a smiling
    countenance took up the matter, and said, "I think then, Sir, it
    would be but just that I drink to the cavaliers." Sometime after,
    the Pretender begun a health to the prosperity of all friends in
    England, which he addressed to me. I took the freedom to reply, that
    as I presumed he meant his own friends, he would not take it ill
    that I meant mine. "I assure you, Sir," said he, "that the friends
    you mean can have no great share of prosperity till they become
    mine, therefore, here's prosperity to yours and mine." After we had
    eat and drank very heartily, the Princess told us we must go see her
    son, which could not be refused; he is really a fine promising
    child, and is attended by English women, mostly Protestants, which
    the Princess observed to us, saying, that as she believed he was to
    live and die among Protestants, she thought fit to have him brought
    up by their hands; and that in the country where she was born, there
    was no other distinction but that of honour and dishonour. These
    women, and particularly two Londoners, kept such a racket about us
    to make us kiss the young Pretender's hand that to get clear of them
    as soon as we could, we were forced to comply: the Princess laughed
    very heartily, and told us that she did not question but the day
    would come that we should not be sorry to have made so early an
    acquaintance with her son. I thought myself under a necessity of
    making her the compliment, that being hers, he could not miss being
    good and happy. On the next post day, we went, as commonly the
    English gentlemen here do, to the Pretender's house for news.

No. II.--THE PEDIGREE OF THE DERWENTWATER FAMILY. (See Page 513.)

Francis Radcliffe, 1st Earl of Derwentwater; died 1696;===Catherine Fenwick.
                                                        |
  +-------------------------------------------------------------------+-+-+-+--------+-+-+-+
  |                                                                   | | | |        | | | |
Francis, 2nd Earl of Derwentwater; === Lady Mary Tudor; born 1673;   Four sons;     Four
born ----; married 1687; died 1705. |  mar. three times; died 1726.  whose fates    daughters.
                                    |                                are unknown.
                                    |
  +-------------------------------+---------+------------------------------------+
  |                               |         |                                    |
James, 3rd Earl===Anna Maria   Francis;   Charles  === Charlotte, Countess of   Mary  === Mr.
Derwentwater;   | Webb;        no         Radcliffe;|  Newburgh, in her own     Tudor. |  Petre,
beheaded 1716;  | born 1693;   issue.     beheaded  |  right, the descendants          |  of
aged 26.        | mar. 1712;              1746,     |  of her daughter in her          |  Belhouse.
                | died 1723.              aged 53.  |  first husband, Thomas           |
                |                                   |  Clifford, being born     No surviving issue.
                |                                   |  aliens do not succeed.
                |                                   |  She died 1755.
  +---------------+                                 |
  |               |                                 |
John, died   Anne      === Robert James,            |
unmarried,   Radcliffe; |  8th Lord Petre;          |
about 1730.  born 1713  |  born 1713;               |
             mar. 1732; |  mar. 1732;               |
             died 1760. |  died 1742.       +-----------------------+-----------+
                        |                   |                       |           |
                        |            James Bartholomew,===Miss    James;      Mary; born===Francis
+----------------------+             4th Earl Newburgh; | Kemp.   no issue;   ----; mar. | Eyre, of
|                                    born 1725-6; mar.  |         died 1788.  1755; died | Hassop
Robert, 9th Lord === Anne Howard;    1749; died 1786.   |                     1798.      |
Petre; b. 1733;   |  born 1742;                         |                                |
mar. 1762;        |  mar. 1762;            +------------+                                |
died 1801.        |  died 1787.            |                                             |
                  |                       Anthony,  === Miss Webb;                       |
+---------------------------------+       5th Earl   |  now                              |
|                                 |       Newburgh;  |  living,                          |
Robert, 10th === Mary Howard;   Other     b. ----;   |  1846.      +----------------------------+
Lord Petre;   |  born 1767;     Issue.    mar. 17--; |             |                            |
born 1763;    |  mar. 1786;               died 1814. |        Francis Eyre,===Miss Gladwin.  Other
mar. 1786;    |  died 1843.                          |        6th Earl      |                issue.
died 1809.    |                                  No issue.    Newburgh;     |
              |                                               born 1762;    |
+----------------------+                                      mar. 1787;    |
|                      |                                      died 1827.    |
William, 11th, and   Other                                                  |
present, Lord        issue.              +----------------------+------------------+-+-+
Petre.                                   |                      |                  | | |
                                     Thomas Eyre, 7th Earl    Francis Eyre, 8th,   Three
                                     Newburgh; born 1790;     and present, Earl    daughters.
                                     mar. 1817; died 1833.    Newburgh.
                                     No issue.

No. III.

The following address affords a curious specimen of the subtlety of Lord Lovat, and the mode
usually adopted by him of cajoling his clan. It was copied by Alexander Macdonald, Esq., from
an old process, in which it was produced before the Court of Session, and it is preserved in
the Register House, Edinburgh; the signature, date, and address are, holographs of Lord Lovat.

THE HONOURABLE THE GENTLEMEN OF THE NAME OF FRASER.

    My dear Friends,

    Since, by all appearances, this is the last time of my life I shall
    have occasion to write to you, I being now very ill of a dangerous
    fever, I do declare to you before God, before whom I must apear, and
    all of us at the great day of Judgement, that I loved you all, I
    mean you and all the rest of my kindred and family who are for the
    standing of their chief and name; and, as I loved you, so I loved
    all my faithful Commons in general more than I did my own life or
    health, or comfort, or satisfaction; and God to whom I must answer,
    knows that my greatest desire and the greatest happiness I proposed
    to myself under heaven was, to make you all live happy and make my
    poor Commons flourish; and that it was my constant principle to
    think myself mutch hapier with a hundred pounds and see you all live
    well at your ease about mee than have ten thousand pounds a year,
    and see you in want or misery. I did faithfully desire and resolve
    to make up, and put at their ease Allexander Fraser of Topatry, and
    James Fraser of Castle Ladders and their familys; and whatever
    disputs might ever be betwixt them and me which our mutual hot
    temper occasioned, joyned with the malice and calomny of both our
    ennemies, I take God to witness, I loved those two brave men as I
    did my own life for their great zeal and fidelity they showed for
    their chief and kindred; I did likewise resolve to support the
    families of Struy Foyers and Culdithels families, and to the lasting
    praise of Culdithel and his familie. I never knew himself to sarwe
    from his faithfull zeal for his chief and kindred, nor none of his
    familie, for which I hope God will bless him and them and their
    posterity. I did likewise desyring to make my poor Commons live at
    their ease and have them always well clothed and well armed after
    the Highland maner, and not to suffer them to wear low country
    cloths, but make them live like their forefathers with the use of
    their arms, that they might always be in condition to defend
    themselves against their ennemies, and to do service to their
    friends, especially to the great Duke of Argile, and to his worthy
    brother the Earl of Illay, and to that glorious and noble famyly who
    were always our constant and faithful friends; and I conjure you and
    all honest Frasers to be zealous and faithfull friends and servants
    to the family of Argile and their friends, whilst a Campbell and a
    Fraser subsists. If it be God's will that for the punishment of my
    great and many sins and the sins of my kindred, I should now depart
    this life before I put these just and good resolutions in execution;
    yet I hope that God in his mercy will inspire you and all honest
    Frasers to stand by and be faithfull to my cousin Inverlahie and the
    other heirs male of my family, and to venture your lives and
    fortunes to put him or my nearest heirs male named in my Testament
    written by John Jacks, in the full possession of the estate and
    honours of my forefathers, which is the onely way to preserve you
    from the wicked designs of the family of Tarbat and Glengary joyned
    to the family of Athol: and you may depend upon it, and you and your
    posterity will see it and find it, that if you do not keep stedfast
    to your chief, I mean the heir male of my famyly; but weakly or
    falsely for little private interest and views abandon your duty to
    your name, and suffer a pretended heiresse, and her Mackenzie
    children to possess your country and the true right of the heirs
    male, they will certainly in les than an age chasse you all by
    slight and might, as well Gentlemen, as Commons, out of your native
    country, which will be possessed by the Mackenzies and the
    Mackdonalls, and you will be, like the miserable unnatural Jews,
    scattered, and vagabonds throughout the unhappy kingdom of Scotland,
    and the poor wifes and children that remains of the name, without a
    head or protection when they are told the traditions of their
    familie will be cursing from their hearts the persons and memory of
    those unnaturall cowardly knavish men, who sold and abandoned their
    chief, their name, their birthright, and their country, for a false
    and foolish present gain, even as the most of Scots' people curs
    this day those who sold them and their country to the English by the
    fatal union, which I hope will not last long.

    I make my earnest and dying prayers to God Almighty, that he may, in
    his mercy, thro the merits of Christ Jesus, save you and all my poor
    people, whom I always found honest and zealous to me and their duty,
    from that blindness of heart that will inevitably bring those ruins
    and disgraces upon you and your posterity; and I pray that Almighty
    and Mercifull God, who has often miraculously saved my family and
    name from utter ruin, may give you the spirit of courage, of zeal,
    and of fidelity, that you owe to your chief, to your name, to your
    selves, to your children, and to your country; and may the most
    mercifull, and adorable Trinity, Father, Son and Holy Spirit, three
    persons, one God, save all your souls eternally, throu the blood of
    Christ Jesus, our Blessed Lord and Saviour, to whom I heartily
    recommende you.

    I desire that this letter may be kept in a box, at Beaufort, or
    Maniack, and read once a-year by the heir male, or a principale
    gentleman of the name, to all honest Frasers that will continue
    faithfull to the duty I have enjoined in this above-written letter,
    to whom, with you and all honest Frasers, and my other friends, I
    leave my tender and affectionat blessing, and bid you my kind, and
    last farewell.

                                                              LOVAT.

    London, the 5 of Aprile, 1718.

    Not being able to write myself, I did dictat the above letter to the
    little French boy, that's my servant. It contains the most sincere
    sentiments of my heart; and if it touch my kindred in reading of it,
    as it did me while I dictat it, I am sure it will have a good
    effect, which are my earnest prayers to God.

IV.

Allusion having been made often, in the course of these memoirs, to the process of "serving
oneself heir" to an estate, in Scotland: the following document,[424] shewing the form of such
a process, may not be deemed uninteresting.

    Claim for William Maxwell, Esq. of Carruchan, who served heir-male
    in general of Robert, Fourth Earl of Nithisdale.

    "Honourable persons and good men of Inquest: I, William Maxwell, of
    Carruchan, who was son of Captain Maxwell of Carruchan, who was son
    of Alexander Maxwell, of Yark and Terraughty, who was son of the
    Honourable James Maxwell, of Breckonside, immediate younger brother
    of John, third Earl of Nithisdale, who was father of Robert, fourth
    Earl of Nithisdale, say unto your wisdoms, that the said Maxwell of
    Nithisdale, nephews of my great-great-great-grandfather, died in the
    faith and peace of our Sovereign Lord the King then reigning, and
    that I am nearest and lawful heir male in general to the said
    Robert, fourth Earl of Nithisdale, the nephew of my
    great-great-great-grandfather, and that I am of lawful age.
    Therefore I beseech your wisdoms to serve and cognesce me nearest
    and lawful heir male in general to the said deceased Robert, fourth
    Earl of Nithisdale, and cause your clerk of the Court to return my
    service to your Majesty's Chancery. Under my seal,

    "According to justice and your wisdom's answer, &c. &c."

FOOTNOTE:

[424] I am indebted for a copy of this process to Sir John Maxwell, Bart. Pollok.

       *       *       *       *       *

Transcriber's Note: The following errors in the original have been corrected.

Contents page - page number for Flora McDonald changed from 294 to 310

Page 20 - no footnote marker for second footnote

Page 88 - missing quotation mark added before (that is to say,

Page 95 - missing quotation mark added after of the heather. Vestiarum Scoticum changed to
Vestiarium Scoticum

Page 98 - extra quotation mark removed from after retreat to the Prince.

Page 109 - extra quotation mark removed from after in a few days.

Page 116 - missing quotation mark added before was pretty well filled

Page 155 - Charles had carefuly changed to Charles had carefully

Page 195 - missing quotation mark added About the same time

Page 218 - missing quotation mark added after (1751), and before for my wife

Page 242 - recal the slow changed to recall the slow

Page 263 - missing quotation mark added after light from Heaven.

Page 287 - extra quotation mark removed from before The Duke of Perth marched

Page 301 - Roman Carholic changed to Roman Catholic

Page 305 - extra quotation mark removed from after Antwerpiæ jacet.

Page 350 - extra comma removed from after know who might

Page 382 - missing quotation mark added after Earls of Kilmarnock.

Page 387 - extra quotation mark removed from after Linlithgow, and Calendar;

Page 408 - recal of Arthur changed to recall of Arthur

Page 422 - removed unnecessary apostrophe from after giving their Lordships

Page 431 - missing quotation mark added before would as soon be hanged

Page 436 - and exexempt changed to and exempt Craufurland Castle, Kilmarnock changed to Craufurdland
Castle, Kilmarnock

Page 438 - missing quotation mark added after receiving a remedy.

Page 442 - inquired Mr. Forster, changed to inquired Mr. Foster,

Page 443 - missing quotation mark added after Lord Balmerino's execution.

Page 450 - missing quotation mark added before is one of antiquity

Page 474 - missing quotation mark added before I now, with my

Page 476 - missing quotation mark added before I put him in mind

Page 477 - missing quotation mark added before His agreeable look

Page 488 - missing quotation mark added after designs for London. Adieu!

Page 491 - missing volume number in footnote inserted.

Page 496 - where at the highest changed to were at the highest

Page 504 - Willian Pitt, Esq. changed to William Pitt, Esq.

Page 510 - was a a report changed to was a report

Page 518 - missing quotation mark added before He then observed

Page 520 - missing quotation mark added after such unworthy thoughts."