  Hark, the cock crows, and yon bright star
  Tells us, the day himself's not far;
  And see where, breaking from the night,
  He gilds the western hills with light.
  With him old Janus doth appear,
  Peeping into the future year,
  With such a look as seems to say,
  The prospect is not good that way.
  Thus do we rise ill sights to see,
  And 'gainst ourselves to prophesy;
  When the prophetic fear of things
  A more tormenting mischief brings,
  More full of soul-tormenting gall,
  Than direst mischiefs can befall.
  But stay! but stay! methinks my sight,
  Better inform'd by clearer light,
  Discerns sereneness in that brow,
  That all contracted seem'd but now.
  His revers'd face may show distaste,
  And frown upon the ills are past;
  But that which this way looks is clear,
  And smiles upon the New-born Year.
  He looks too from a place so high,
  The Year lies open to his eye;
  And all the moments open are
  To the exact discoverer.
  Yet more and more he smiles upon
  The happy revolution.
  Why should we then suspect or fear
  The influences of a year,
  So smiles upon us the first morn,
  And speaks us good so soon as born?
  Plague on't! the last was ill enough,
  This cannot but make better proof;
  Or, at the worst, as we brush'd through
  The last, why so we may this too;
  And then the next in reason shou'd
  Be superexcellently good:
  For the worst ills (we daily see)
  Have no more perpetuity,
  Than the best fortunes that do fall;
  Which also bring us wherewithal
  Longer their being to support,
  Than those do of the other sort:
  And who has one good year in three,
  And yet repines at destiny,
  Appears ungrateful in the case,
  And merits not the good he has.
  Then let us welcome the New Guest
  With lusty brimmers of the best;
  Mirth always should Good Fortune meet,
  And renders e'en Disaster sweet:
  And though the Princess turn her back,
  Let us but line ourselves with sack,
  We better shall by far hold out,
  Till the next Year she face about.

How say you, reader--do not these verses smack of the rough magnanimity of the old English
vein? Do they not fortify like a cordial; enlarging the heart, and productive of sweet blood,
and generous spirits, in the concoction? Where be those puling fears of death, just now expressed
or affected?--Passed like a cloud--absorbed in the purging sunlight of clear poetry--clean
washed away by a wave of genuine Helicon, your only Spa for these hypochondries--And now another
cup of the generous! and a merry New Year, and many of them, to you all, my masters!

MRS. BATTLE'S OPINIONS ON WHIST

"A clear fire, a clean hearth, and the rigour of the game." This was the celebrated wish of
old Sarah Battle (now with God) who, next to her devotions, loved a good game at whist. She
was none of your lukewarm gamesters, your half and half players, who have no objection to take
a hand, if you want one to make up a rubber; who affirm that they have no pleasure in winning;
that they like to win one game, and lose another; that they can while away an hour very agreeably
at a card-table, but are indifferent whether they play or no; and will desire an adversary,
who has slipt a wrong card, to take it up and play another. These insufferable triflers are
the curse of a table. One of these flies will spoil a whole pot. Of such it may be said, that
they do not play at cards, but only play at playing at them.

Sarah Battle was none of that breed. She detested them, as I do, from her heart and soul; and
would not, save upon a striking emergency, willingly seat herself at the same table with them.
She loved a thorough-paced partner, a determined enemy. She took, and gave, no concessions.
She hated favours. She never made a revoke, nor ever passed it over in her adversary without
exacting the utmost forfeiture. She fought a good fight: cut and thrust. She held not her good
sword (her cards) "like a dancer." She sate bolt upright; and neither showed you her cards,
nor desired to see yours. All people have their blind side--their superstitions; and I have
heard her declare, under the rose, that Hearts was her favourite suit.

I never in my life--and I knew Sarah Battle many of the best years of it--saw her take out
her snuff-box when it was her turn to play; or snuff a candle in the middle of a game; or ring
for a servant, till it was fairly over. She never introduced, or connived at, miscellaneous
conversation during its process. As she emphatically observed, cards were cards: and if I ever
saw unmingled distaste in her fine last-century countenance, it was at the airs of a young
gentleman of a literary turn, who had been with difficulty persuaded to take a hand; and who,
in his excess of candour, declared, that he thought there was no harm in unbending the mind
now and then, after serious studies, in recreations of that kind!

Pope was her favourite author: his Rape of the Lock her favourite work. She once did me the
favour to play over with me (with the cards) his celebrated game of Ombre in that poem; and
to explain to me how far it agreed with, and in what points it would be found to differ from,
tradrille. Her illustrations were apposite and poignant; and I had the pleasure of sending
the substance of them to Mr. Bowles: but I suppose they came too late to be inserted among
his ingenious notes upon that author.

Quadrille, she has often told me, was her first love; but whist had engaged her maturer esteem.
The former, she said, was showy and specious, and likely to allure young persons. The uncertainty
and quick shifting of partners--a thing which the constancy of whist abhors;--the dazzling
supremacy and regal investiture of Spadille--absurd, as she justly observed, in the pure aristocracy
of whist, where his crown and garter give him no proper power above his brother-nobility of
the Aces;--the giddy vanity, so taking to the inexperienced, of playing alone:--above all,
the overpowering attractions of a Sans Prendre Vole,--to the triumph of which there is certainly
nothing parallel or approaching, in the contingencies of whist;--all these, she would say,
make quadrille a game of captivation to the young and enthusiastic. But whist was the solider
game: that was her word. It was a long meal; not, like quadrille, a feast of snatches. One
or two rubbers might coextend in duration with an evening. They gave time to form rooted friendships,
to cultivate steady enmities. She despised the chance-started, capricious, and ever fluctuating
alliances of the other. The skirmishes of quadrille, she would say, reminded her of the petty
ephemeral embroilments of the little Italian states, depicted by Machiavel; perpetually changing
postures and connexions; bitter foes to-day, sugared darlings to-morrow; kissing and scratching
in a breath;--but the wars of whist were comparable to the long, steady, deep-rooted, rational,
antipathies of the great French and English nations.

A grave simplicity was what she chiefly admired in her favourite game. There was nothing silly
in it, like the nob in cribbage--nothing superfluous. No flushes--that most irrational of all
pleas that a reasonable being can set up:--that any one should claim four by virtue of holding
cards of the same mark and colour, without reference to the playing of the game, or the individual
worth or pretensions of the cards themselves! She held this to be a solecism; as pitiful an
ambition at cards as alliteration is in authorship. She despised superficiality, and looked
deeper than the colours of things.--Suits were soldiers, she would say, and must have a uniformity
of array to distinguish them: but what should we say to a foolish squire, who should claim
a merit from dressing up his tenantry in red jackets, that never were to be marshalled--never
to take the field?--She even wished that whist were more simple than it is; and, in my mind,
would have stript it of some appendages, which, in the state of human frailty, may be venially,
and even commendably allowed of. She saw no reason for the deciding of the trump by the turn
of the card. Why not one suit always trumps?--Why two colours, when the mark of the suits would
have sufficiently distinguished them without it?--

"But the eye, my dear Madam, is agreeably refreshed with the variety. Man is not a creature
of pure reason he must have his senses delightfully appealed to. We see it in Roman Catholic
countries, where the music and the paintings draw in many to worship, whom your quaker spirit
of unsensualizing would have kept out.--You, yourself, have a pretty collection of paintings--but
confess to me, whether, walking in your gallery at Sandham, among those clear Vandykes, or
among the Paul Potters in the ante-room, you ever felt your bosom glow with an elegant delight,
at all comparable to that you have it in your power to experience most evenings over a well-arranged
assortment of the court cards?--the pretty antic habits, like heralds in a procession--the
gay triumph-assuring scarlets--the contrasting deadly-killing sables--the 'hoary majesty of
spades'--Pam in all his glory!--

"All these might be dispensed with; and, with their naked names upon the drab pasteboard, the
game might go on very well, picture-less. But the beauty of cards would be extinguished for
ever. Stripped of all that is imaginative in them, they must degenerate into mere gambling.--Imagine
a dull deal board, or drum head, to spread them on, instead of that nice verdant carpet (next
to nature's), fittest arena for those courtly combatants to play their gallant jousts and turneys
in!--Exchange those delicately-turned ivory markers--(work of Chinese artist, unconscious of
their symbol,--or as profanely slighting their true application as the arrantest Ephesian journeyman
that turned out those little shrines for the goddess)--exchange them for little bits of leather
(our ancestors' money) or chalk and a slate!"--

The old lady, with a smile, confessed the soundness of my logic; and to her approbation of
my arguments on her favourite topic that evening, I have always fancied myself indebted for
the legacy of a curious cribbage board, made of the finest Sienna marble, which her maternal
uncle (old Walter Plumer, whom I have elsewhere celebrated) brought with him from Florence:--this,
and a trifle of five hundred pounds, came to me at her death.

The former bequest (which I do not least value) I have kept with religious care; though she
herself, to confess a truth, was never greatly taken with cribbage. It was an essentially vulgar
game, I have heard her say,--disputing with her uncle, who was very partial to it. She could
never heartily bring her mouth to pronounce "go"--or "that's a go." She called it an ungrammatical
game. The pegging teased her. I once knew her to forfeit a rubber (a five dollar stake), because
she would not take advantage of the turn-up knave, which would have given it her, but which
she must have claimed by the disgraceful tenure of declaring "two for his heels." There is
something extremely genteel in this sort of self-denial. Sarah Battle was a gentlewoman born.

Piquet she held the best game at the cards for two persons, though she would ridicule the pedantry
of the terms--such as pique--repique--the capot--they savoured (she thought) of affectation.
But games for two, or even three, she never greatly cared for. She loved the quadrate, or square.
She would argue thus:--Cards are warfare: the ends are gain, with glory. But cards are war,
in disguise of a sport: when single adversaries encounter, the ends proposed are too palpable.
By themselves, it is too close a fight; with spectators, it is not much bettered. No looker
on can be interested, except for a bet, and then it is a mere affair of money; he cares not
for your luck sympathetically, or for your play.--Three are still worse; a mere naked war of
every man against every man, as in cribbage, without league or alliance; or a rotation of petty
and contradictory interests, a succession of heartless leagues, and not much more hearty infractions
of them, as in tradrille.--But in square games (she meant whist) all that is possible to be
attained in card-playing is accomplished. There are the incentives of profit with honour, common
to every species--though the latter can be but very imperfectly enjoyed in those other games,
where the spectator is only feebly a participator. But the parties in whist are spectators
and principals too. They are a theatre to themselves, and a looker-on is not wanted. He is
rather worse than nothing, and an impertinence. Whist abhors neutrality, or interest beyond
its sphere. You glory in some surprising stroke of skill or fortune, not because a cold--or
even an interested--by-stander witnesses it, but because your partner sympathises in the contingency.
You win for two. You triumph for two. Two are exalted. Two again are mortified; which divides
their disgrace, as the conjunction doubles (by taking off the invidiousness) your glories.
Two losing to two are better reconciled, than one to one in that close butchery. The hostile
feeling is weakened by multiplying the channels. War becomes a civil game.--By such reasonings
as these the old lady was accustomed to defend her favourite pastime.

No inducement could ever prevail upon her to play at any game, where chance entered into the
composition, for nothing. Chance, she would argue--and here again, admire the subtlety of her
conclusion!--chance is nothing, but where something else depends upon it. It is obvious, that
cannot be glory. What rational cause of exultation could it give to a man to turn up size ace
a hundred times together by himself? or before spectators, where no stake was depending?--Make
a lottery of a hundred thousand tickets with but one fortunate number--and what possible principle
of our nature, except stupid wonderment, could it gratify to gain that number as many times
successively, without a prize?--Therefore she disliked the mixture of chance in backgammon,
where it was not played for money. She called it foolish, and those people idots, who were
taken with a lucky hit under such circumstances. Games of pure skill were as little to her
fancy. Played for a stake, they were a mere system of over-reaching. Played for glory, they
were a mere setting of one man's wit,--his memory, or combination-faculty rather--against another's;
like a mock-engagement at a review, bloodless and profitless.--She could not conceive a game
wanting the spritely infusion of chance,--the handsome excuses of good fortune. Two people
playing at chess in a corner of a room, whilst whist was stirring in the centre, would inspire
her with insufferable horror and ennui. Those well-cut similitudes of Castles, and Knights,
the imagery of the board, she would argue, (and I think in this case justly) were entirely
misplaced and senseless. Those hard head-contests can in no instance ally with the fancy. They
reject form and colour. A pencil and dry slate (she used to say) were the proper arena for
such combatants.

