Dr. Richardson acknowledges the liberal assistance afforded him by the Hudson's Bay Company,
in the collection of specimens. Indeed, to this public-spirited body are we indebted for our
earliest systematic knowledge of the Hudson's Bay birds. The reader may likewise witness a
few living evidences of the Company's liberality, in the fine collection of eagles and owls
presented by them to the Zoological Society, and exhibiting in the Gardens in the Regent's
Park. Such devotion to the advancement of science cannot be too proudly perpetuated in the
history of a society established for commercial objects.

       *       *       *       *       *

SONNET.

TO H----C. ON MY FRIEND H---- S---- BEING IN LOVE WITH HER.

(For the Mirror.)

  Thou that art like the sun, that on its way,
  Across the cloudless distance of the skies
  Gives pleasure to us all--no rivalries
  Lessen'ng the love we bear it--as a day
  Of shower-glad April or the month of May,
  Thou that art cheerful--see yon youth that lies
  Weeping for want of sunshine from thine eyes,
  And hope that thou canst only give him--say:
  "Sweet youth, and art thou weeping for a heart
  All passion, joy, and gladness--come unto me,
  Oft by the evening sunset thou shalt woo me,
  And as thou hast the gentleness and art
  Or rather truth-kind nature thou mayst tear it
  From all its other likings, win and wear it."

J.H.H.

       *       *       *       *       *

MRS. HEMANS.

(To the Editor.)

I have just been perusing in No. 16, of Chambers's Edinburgh Journal, a short and incorrect
sketch of that highly-gifted and moral poetess, Mrs. Hemans, "who," the writer says, "first
came into public notice about twelve or fourteen years ago;" whereas, her literary career commenced
as far back as the year 1809, in an elegantly printed quarto of poems, which were highly spoken
of by the present T. Roscoe, Esq. and were dedicated by permission to his late Majesty, when
Prince Regent. Permit me to say that this accomplished daughter of the Muse is a native of
Denbighshire, North Wales, and was born at the family mansion named "Grwych," about one and
a half mile distant from Abergele; and at the period of her first appearance as an authoress,
she had not, I think, reached her thirteenth year. I had the pleasure of then being her neighbour,
and our Appenine mansion, the Signal Station, at Cave Hill, has been more than once enlivened
by Lady, then Miss Felicia Dorothea Browne's society, accompanied by her excellent mother.
She has since married ---- Hemans, Esq., then an Adjutant in the army. A great number of her
pieces have appeared in the Monthly Magazine, as well as the New Monthly, and although a pleasing
pensiveness and sombre cast of mind seem to pervade her beautifully mental pictures, she was,
I may say, noted in her youth for the buoyancy and sprightliness of her conversation and manner,
which made her the delight and charm of every society with which she mixed. She likewise (I
think in the same year) published an animated poem upon the valour of Spain and her patriotic
ally, England. Instead of Mrs. H. residing, as the writer of the above memoir observes, chiefly
in London, she has passed the principal years of her life since her removal from Grwych, at
a pleasant dwelling, termed "Rose Cottage," near the city of St. Asaph. The Editor of the Edinburgh
Journal is again wrong in saying that her "Songs of the Affections," and the "Records of Woman,"
are understood to have had a very limited circulation, whereas, in the space of two years,
they have reached a third and fourth edition.

The Author of A Tradesman's Lays.

       *       *       *       *       *

MASSENA'S TOMB.

PERE LA CHAISE, PARIS.

  Rest Soldier! not the trumpet's peal,
    Can break the hallow'd silence here;
  For ling'ring footsteps only steal,
    To weep the mourner's bitter tear.

  Sad trophied "city of the dead!"
    Far around are night dews weeping;
  And cypresses their branches spread,
    Where the fair and brave are sleeping.

  Affection brings her wreath of willow,
    And fondly decks the funeral stone,
  The cold, damp earth she makes her pillow,
    And only hears the night-wind's moan.

  And hoary age, hath laid him down,
    With the weary weight of years upon him!
  And youth, in his spring morning flown,
    Ere life's cold hues had shadow'd on him.

  Beauty, hath joined the assembly here,
    With marble brow, and close-shut eye,
  And pallid lip,--while o'er her bier,
    The dirge was chanted mournfully.

  And roses bloom on many a grave,
    With lilies fair, and violets blue,
  And willows their green branches wave,
    Shedding pale evening's tears of dew.

  Round many a tomb that flow'ret springs,
    "Forget me not"--the tale it tells,
  Vainly the fond appeal it brings
    To Death's domain, where silence dwells!

  Long years, "with all their deeds," may roll,
    Ere the cold clay, its cell forsaking,
  Shall join the disembodied soul,
    When the last morning's dawn is breaking!

  Kirton Lindsey.                ANNE R.

       *       *       *       *       *

THE WRITINGS OF BURKE.

(For the Mirror.)

Of all the great men of his age, there were few who attained to the celebrity of Edmund Burke;
there were many, however, who deserved it more and whom a more adverse fortune compelled to
languish in comparative obscurity. That Burke was a man of wonderful talent it would be in
vain to deny, and indeed such denial would be only a proof of our own ignorance and bad taste;
but his strength was that of imagination merely,--his genius was not sufficiently counterbalanced
by judgment, and he has been at all times ranked as an elegant rather than a nervous writer.
In his oratory, as well us his literary composition, he was too much addicted to a florid phraseology,
and his hearers, during his lifetime, as well as his readers now, were often driven to consider
his meaning, and not unfrequently to make one out for themselves. This style of declamation
has been not unaptly called "splendid nonsense," and it was after a display of this sort from
Burke, that one of his audience made this pithy exclamation: "It is all very well, but I should
like to hear it over again, that I might consider the sense." Burke also dealt in paradoxes
occasionally; in short, he will seldom satisfy a careful reader, and his most ardent admirers
have been known to confess themselves rather pleased than edified by his works. By way of specimen,
as to the remarks we have ventured to make, we shall endeavour to take to pieces the following
sophism, for a sophism we cannot help considering it:--

"Duties are not voluntary; duty and will are even contradictory terms."--"Men have an extreme
disrelish to be told of their duty; this is, of course, because every duty is a limitation
of power."

These two sentences are taken from different parts of the writings of Burke, but they are the
same in tendency, though not in expression; they imply simply, that duty is a restraint, and
that our duties and our inclinations call us different roads. Let us first consider what the
term "duty" signifies. From Johnson we get this explanation of it: "What we are bound to do
by the impulse of nature, the dictates of law, or the voice of reason." Now, to take these
three cases as they stand, nature has surely ordained everything for our advantage, and therefore
in obeying her, we have rather an accession than a diminution of power; with respect to ourselves,
the calls of nature are even agreeable to us; and as far as our duties concern others, men
seem in general to perform their natural duties willingly, such as a duty to a child, a parent,
&c. Then with regard to the duties imposed on us by law, many of these appear indeed at first
to be great and unnecessary restraints, but if we examine the matter, we shall find that very
few laws have been framed that have not rather good than evil for their object. Society doubtless
imposes many restrictions on its members, but it also confers far greater comparative advantages
in lieu of them, so that if we were fairly to weigh the benefits received, against the losses
sustained, we should find law to be a blessing, without which we could not exist in any real
comfort; and we should see clearly then it gives power and elevates, rather than shackles or
debases us. As to these legal duties being voluntary with all men, every day proves that they
are not; but with all reasonable persons they must be, for we ought surely to perform that
willingly, which is not only intended, but actually is, for our good. It is the perverse nature
of man, that looks on the dark side of things, and forgetting the ultimate advantage to be
derived, considers only the partial and trivial annoyances that necessarily attend its completion.
The duties dictated by reason are the only duties that remain: it is difficult to separate
these entirely from natural duties; perhaps I may be allowed to call "Prayer" or "Thanksgiving
to God" a reasonable duty, (for it is not a natural one, or the brutes would practise it in
common with ourselves.) Now this is a duty, that if it is performed at all, is performed voluntarily,
for it is clearly in a man's own choice to do it or not, there being no compulsory power to
enforce prayer; as to this duty being a limitation of power, its observance does indeed imply
a state of dependence, and is an indirect admission that we are creatures at the disposal of
another; but that is not exactly the point; it is no limitation of power in this sense; it
takes away no power we were before possessed of.

F.

       *       *       *       *       *

THE SELECTOR; AND LITERARY NOTICES OF NEW WORKS.

       *       *       *       *       *

BRITISH WARRIORS.

The second volume of the Rev. Mr. Gleig's Lives of the most eminent British, Military Commanders,
(and the 28th No. of the Cabinet Cyclopædia,) contains Peterborough and Wolfe, and concludes
Marlborough. The latter is very copious, and perhaps more detailed than we expected to find
it. We subjoin an extract describing the last days of

Marlborough.

