'If thou wouldst have happiness, choose neither fame, which doth not long abide, nor power,
which stings the hand that wields it, nor gold, which glitters but never glorifies; but choose
thou Love, and hold it for ever in thy heart of hearts; for Love is the purest and the mightiest
force in the universe, and once it is thine all other gifts shall be added unto thee. Love
that is passionate yet reverent, tender yet strong, selfish in desiring all yet generous in
giving all; love of man for woman and woman for man, of parent for child and friend for friend--when
this is born in the soul, the desert blossoms as the rose. Straightway new hopes and wishes,
sweet longings and pure ambitions, spring into being, like green shoots that lift their tender
heads in sunny places; and if the soil be kind, they grow stronger and more beautiful as each
glad day laughs in the rosy skies. And by and by singing-birds come and build their nests in
the branches; and these are the pleasures of life. And the birds sing not often, because of
a serpent that lurketh in the garden. And the name of the serpent is Satiety. He maketh the
heart to grow weary of what it once danced and leaped to think upon, and the ear to wax dull
to the melody of sounds that once were sweet, and the eye blind to the beauty that once led
enchantment captive. And sometimes--we know not why, but we shall know hereafter, for life
is not completely happy since it is not heaven, nor completely unhappy since it is the road
thither--sometimes the light of the sun is withdrawn for a moment, and that which is fairest
vanishes from the place that was enriched by its presence. Yet the garden is never quite deserted.
Modest flowers, whose charms we had not noted when youth was bright and the world seemed ours,
now lift their heads in sheltered places and whisper peace. The morning song of the birds is
hushed, for the dawn breaks less rosily in the eastern skies, but at twilight they still come
and nestle in the branches that were sunned in the smile of love and watered with its happy
tears. And over the grave of each buried hope or joy stands an angel with strong comforting
hands and patient smile; and the name of the garden is Life, and the angel is Memory.'

Chapter XVI. The decay of Romance.

I have changed my Belvern, and there are so many others left to choose from that I might live
in a different Belvern each week. North, South, East, and West Belvern, New Belvern, Old Belvern,
Great Belvern, Little Belvern, Belvern Link, Belvern Common, and Belvern Wells. They are all
nestled together in the velvet hollows or on the wooded crowns of the matchless Belvern Hills,
from which they look down upon the fairest plains that ever blessed the eye. One can see from
their heights a score of market towns and villages, three splendid cathedrals, each in a different
county, the queenly Severn winding like a silver thread among the trees, with soft-flowing
Avon and gentle Teme watering the verdant meadows through which they pass. All these hills
and dales were once the Royal Forest, and afterwards the Royal Chase, of Belvern, covering
nearly seven thousand acres in three counties; and from the lonely height of the Beacon no
less than

     'Twelve fair counties saw the blaze'

of signals, when the country was threatened by a Spanish invasion. As for me, I mourn the decay
of Romance with a great R; we have it still among us, but we spell it with a smaller letter.
It must be so much more interesting to be threatened with an invasion, especially a Spanish
invasion, than with a strike, for instance. The clashing of swords and the flashing of spears
in the sunshine are so much more dazzling and inspiring than a line of policemen with clubs!
Yes, I wish it were the age of chivalry again, and that I were looking down from these hills
into the Royal Chase. Of course I know that there were wicked and selfish tyrants in those
days, before the free press, the jury system, and the folding-bed had wrought their beneficent
influences upon the common mind and heart. Of course they would have sneered at Browning Societies
and improved tenements, and of course they did not care a penny whether woman had the ballot
or not, so long as man had the bottle; but I would that the other moderns were enjoying the
modern improvements, and that I were gazing into the cool depths of those deep forests where
there were once good lairs for the wolf and wild boar. I should like to hear the baying of
the hounds and the mellow horns of the huntsman. I should like to see the royal cavalcade emerging
from one of those wooded glades: monarch and baron bold, proud prelate, abbot and prior, belted
knight and ladye fair, sweeping in gorgeous array under the arcades of the overshadowing trees,
silver spurs and jewelled trappings glittering in the sunlight, princely forms bending low
over the saddles of the court beauties. Why, oh why, is it not possible to be picturesque and
pious in the same epoch? Why may not chivalry and charity go hand in hand? It amuses me to
imagine the amazement of the barons, bold and belted knights, could they be resuscitated for
a sufficient length of time to gaze upon the hydropathic establishments which dot their ancient
hunting-grounds. It would have been very difficult to interest the age of chivalry in hydropathy.

Such is the fascination of historic association that I am sure, if I could drag my beloved
but conscientious Salemina from some foreign soup-kitchen which she is doubtless inspecting,
I could make even her mourn the vanished past with me this morning, on the Beacon's towering
head. For Salemina wearies of the age of charity sometimes, as every one does who is trying
to make it a beautiful possibility.

Chapter XVII. Short stops and long bills.

The manner of my changing from West to North Belvern was this. When I had been two days at
Holly House, I reflected that my sitting-room faced the wrong way for the view, and that my
bedroom was dark and not large enough to swing a cat in. Not that there was the remotest necessity
of my swinging cats in it, but the figure of speech is always useful. Neither did I care to
occupy myself with the perennial inspection and purchase of raw edibles, when I wished to live
in an ideal world and paint a great picture. Mrs. Hobbs would come to my bedside in the morning
and ask me if I would like to buy a fowl. When I looked upon the fowl, limp in death, with
its headless neck hanging dejectedly over the edge of the plate, its giblets and kidneys lying
in immodest confusion on the outside of itself, and its liver 'tucked under its wing, poor
thing,' I never wanted to buy it. But one morning, in taking my walk, I chanced upon an idyllic
spot: the front of the whitewashed cottage embowered in flowers, bird-cages built into these
bowers, a little notice saying 'Canaries for Sale,' and an English rose of a baby sitting in
the path stringing hollyhock buds. There was no apartment sign, but I walked in, ostensibly
to buy some flowers. I met Mrs. Bobby, loved her at first sight, the passion was reciprocal,
and I wheedled her into giving me her own sitting-room and the bedroom above it. It only remained
now for me to break my projected change of residence to my present landlady, and this I distinctly
dreaded. Of course Mrs. Hobbs said, when I timidly mentioned the subject, that she wished she
had known I was leaving an hour before, for she had just refused a lady and her husband, most
desirable persons, who looked as if they would be permanent. Can it be that lodgers radiate
the permanent or transitory quality, quite unknown to themselves?

I was very much embarrassed, as she threatened to become tearful; and as I was determined never
to give up Mrs. Bobby, I said desperately, "I must leave you, Mrs. Hobbs, I must indeed; but
as you seem to feel so badly about it, I'll go out and find you another lodger in my place."

The fact is, I had seen, not long before, a lady going in and out of houses, as I had done
on the night of my arrival, and it occurred to me that I might pursue her, and persuade her
to take my place in Holly House and buy the headless fowl. I walked for nearly an hour before
I was rewarded with a glimpse of my victim's grey dress whisking round the corner of Pump Street.
I approached, and, with a smile that was intended to be a justification in itself, I explained
my somewhat unusual mission. She was rather unreceptive at first; she thought evidently that
I was to have a percentage on her, if I succeeded in capturing her alive and delivering her
to Mrs. Hobbs; but she was very weary and discouraged, and finally fell in with my plans. She
accompanied me home, was introduced to Mrs. Hobbs, and engaged my rooms from the following
day. As she had a sister, she promised to be a more lucrative incumbent than I; she enjoyed
ordering food in a raw state, did not care for views, and thought purple clematis vines only
a shelter for insects: so every one was satisfied, and I most of all when I wrestled with Mrs.
Hobb's itemised bill for two nights and one day. Her weekly account must be rolled on a cylinder,
I should think, like the list of Don Juan's amours, for the bill of my brief residence beneath
her roof was quite three feet in length, each of the following items being set down every twenty-four
hours:--

     Apartments.
     Ale.
     Bath.
     Kidney beans.
     Candles.
     Vegetable marrow.
     Tea.
     Eggs.
     Butter.
     Bread.
     Cut off joint.
     Plums.
     Potatoes.
     Chops.
     Kipper.
     Rasher.
     Salt.
     Pepper.
     Vinegar.
     Sugar.
     Washing towels.
     Lights.
     Kitchen fire.
     Sitting-room fire.
     Attendance.
     Boots.

The total was seventeen shillings and sixpence, and as Mrs. Hobbs wrote upon it, in her neat
English hand, 'Received payment, with respectful thanks,' she carefully blotted the wet ink,
and remarked casually that service was not included in 'attendance,' but that she would leave
the amount to me.

Chapter XVIII. I meet Mrs. Bobby.

Mrs. Bobby and I were born for each other, though we have been a long time in coming together.
She is the pink of neatness and cheeriness, and she has a broad, comfortable bosom on which
one might lay a motherless head, if one felt lonely in a stranger land. I never look at her
without remembering what the poet Samuel Rogers said of Lady Parke: 'She is so good that when
she goes to heaven she will find no difference save that her ankles will be thinner and her
head better dressed.'

