"I should think not, indeed! We're too clever to be taken in by that sort, all eyes and melodrama.
They say Lord Northmorland warned his brother against her, and prophesied she'd get hold of
him, if he didn't let her alone. The Duchess of Amidon told Lady Peggy Lynch--whom I know a
little--that immediately after Lorenzi committed suicide, this Margot girl wrote to Stephen
Knight and implored him to help her. I can quite believe she would. Fancy the daughter of the
unsuccessful claimant to his brother's title writing begging letters to a young man like Stephen
Knight! It appeals to one's sense of humour."

"What a pity Knight didn't see it in that light--what?"

"Yet he has a sense of humour, I believe. It's supposed to be one of his charms. But the sense
of humour often fails where one's own affairs are concerned. You know he's celebrated for his
quaint ideas about life. They say he has socialistic views, or something rather like them.
His brother and he are as different from one another as light is from darkness. Stephen gives
away a lot of money, and Lady Peggy says that nobody ever asks him for anything in vain. He
can't stand seeing people unhappy, if he can do anything to help. Probably, after he'd been
kind to the Lorenzi girl, against his brother's advice, and gone to see her a few times, she
grovelled at his feet and told him she was all alone in the world, and would die if he didn't
love her. He's just young enough and romantic enough to be caught in that way!"

"He's no boy. He must be nearly thirty."

"All nice, normal men are boys until after thirty. Lady Peggy's new name for this poor child
is the Martyr Knight."

"St. Stephen the Second is the last thing I heard. Stephen the First was a martyr too, wasn't
he? Stoned to death or something."

"I believe so," hastily returned the lady, who was not learned in martyrology. "He will be
stoned, too, if he tries to force Miss Lorenzi on his family, or even on his friends. He'll
find that he'll have to take her abroad."

"That might be a good working plan. Foreigners wouldn't shudder at her accent. And she's certainly
one of the most gorgeously beautiful creatures I ever saw."

"Yes, that's just the right expression. Gorgeous. And--a creature."

They both laughed, and fell to talking again of the interview.

Stephen Knight's ears were burning. He could not hear any of the things people were saying;
but he had a lively imagination, and, always sensitive, he had grown morbidly so since the
beginning of the Northmorland-Lorenzi case, when all the failings and eccentricities of the
family had been reviewed before the public eye, like a succession of cinematograph pictures.
It did not occur to Stephen that he was an object of pity, but he felt that through his own
folly and that of another, he had become a kind of scarecrow, a figure of fun: and because
until now the world had laughed with instead of at him, he would rather have faced a shower
of bullets than a ripple of ridicule.

"How do you do?" he inquired stiffly, and shook Miss Lorenzi's hand as she gave it without
rising from the pink sofa. She gazed up at him with immense, yellowish brown eyes, then fluttered
her long black lashes in a way she had, which was thrilling--the first time you saw it. But
Stephen had seen it often.

"I am glad you've come, my White Knight!" she said in her contralto voice, which would have
been charming but for a crude accent. "I was so afraid you were cross."

"I'm not cross, only extremely ang--vexed if you really did talk to that journalist fellow,"
Stephen answered, trying not to speak sharply, and keeping his tone low. "Only, for Heaven's
sake, Margot, don't call me--what you did call me--anywhere, but especially here, where we
might as well be on the stage of a theatre."

"Nobody can hear us," she defended herself. "You ought to like that dear little name I made
up because you came to my rescue, and saved me from following my father--came into my life
as if you'd been a modern St. George. Calling you my 'White Knight' shows you how I feel--how
I appreciate you and everything. If you just would realize that, you couldn't scold me."

"I'm not scolding you," he said desperately. "But couldn't you have stopped in your sitting-room--I
suppose you have one--and let me see you there? It's loathsome making a show of ourselves----"

"I haven't a private sitting-room. It would have been too extravagant," returned Miss Lorenzi.
"Please sit down--by me."

Stephen sat down, biting his lip. He must not begin to lecture her, or even to ask why she
had exchanged her quiet lodgings for the Carlton Hotel, because if he once began, he knew that
he would be carried on to unsafe depths. Besides, he was foolish enough to hate hurting a woman's
feelings, even when she most deserved to have them hurt.

"Very well. It can't be helped now. Let us talk," said Stephen. "The first thing is, what to
do with this newspaper chap, if you didn't give him the interview----"

"Oh, I did give it--in a way," she admitted, looking rather frightened, and very beautiful.
"You mustn't do anything to him. But--of course it was only because I thought it would be better
to tell him the truth. Surely it was?"

"Surely it wasn't. You oughtn't to have received him."

"Then do you mind so dreadfully having people know you've asked me to marry you, and that I've
said 'yes'?"

Margot Lorenzi's expression of pathetic reproach was as effective as her eyelash play, when
seen for the first time, as Stephen knew to his sorrow. But he had seen the one as often as
the other.

"You must know I didn't mean anything of the sort. Oh, Margot, if you don't understand, I'm
afraid you're hopeless."

"If you speak like that to me, I shall simply end everything as my father did," murmured the
young woman, in a stifled, breaking voice. But her eyes were blazing.

It almost burst from Stephen to order her not to threaten him again, to tell her that he was
sick of melodrama, sick to the soul; but he kept silence. She was a passionate woman, and perhaps
in a moment of madness she might carry out her threat. He had done a great deal to save her
life--or, as he thought, to save it. After going so far he must not fail now in forbearance.
And worse than having to live with beautiful, dramatic Margot, would it be to live without
her if she killed herself because of him.

"Forgive me. I didn't mean to hurt you," he said when he could control his voice.

She smiled. "No, of course you didn't. It was stupid of me to fly out. I ought to know that
you're always good. But I don't see what harm the interview could do you, or me, or any one.
It lets all the world know how gloriously you've made up to me for the loss of the case, and
the loss of my father; and how you came into my life just in time to save me from killing myself,
because I was utterly alone, defeated, without money or hope."

She spoke with the curiously thrilling emphasis she knew how to give her words sometimes, and
Stephen could not help thinking she did credit to her training. She had been preparing for
the stage in Canada, the country of the Lorenzis' adoption, before her father brought her to
England, whither he came with a flourish of trumpets to contest Lord Northmorland's rights
to the title.

"The world knew too much about our affairs already," Stephen said aloud. "And when you wished
our engagement to be announced in The Morning Post, I had it put in at once. Wasn't that enough?"

"Every one in the world doesn't read The Morning Post. But I should think every one in the
world has read that interview, or will soon," retorted Margot. "It appeared only yesterday
morning, and was copied in all the evening papers; in this morning's ones too; and they say
it's been cabled word for word to the big Canadian and American dailies."

Stephen had his gloves in his hand, and he tore a slit across the palm of one, without knowing
it. But Margot saw. He was thinking of the heading in big black print at the top of the interview:
"Romantic Climax to the Northmorland-Lorenzi Case. Only Brother of Lord Northmorland to Marry
the Daughter of Dead Canadian Claimant. Wedding Bells Relieve Note of Tragedy."

"We've nothing to be ashamed of--everything to be proud of," Miss Lorenzi went on. "You, of
your own noble behaviour to me, which, as I said to the reporter, must be making my poor father
happy in another world. Me, because I have won You, far more than because some day I shall
have gained all that father failed to win for me and himself. His heart was broken, and he
took his own life. My heart would have been broken too, and but for you I----"

"Don't, please," Stephen broke in. "We won't talk any more about the interview. I'd like to
forget it. I should have called here yesterday, as I wired in answer to your telegram saying
you were at the Carlton, but being at my brother's place in Cumberland, I couldn't get back
till----"

"Oh, I understand," Margot cut in. Then she laughed a sly little laugh. "I think I understand
too why you went to Cumberland. Now tell me. Confession's good for the soul. Didn't your brother
wire for you the minute he saw that announcement in The Morning Post, day before yesterday?"

"He did wire. Or rather the Duchess did, asking me to go at once to Cumberland, on important
business. I found your telegram, forwarded from my flat, when I got to Northmorland Hall. If
I'd known you were moving, I wouldn't have gone till to-day."

"You mean, dear, you wouldn't have let me move? Now, do you think there's any harm in a girl
of my age being alone in a hotel? If you do, it's dreadfully old-fashioned of you. I'm twenty-four."

During the progress of the case, it had been mentioned in court that the claimant's daughter
was twenty-nine (exactly Stephen Knight's age); but Margot ignored this unfortunate slip, and
hoped that Stephen and others had forgotten.

"No actual harm. But in the circumstances, why be conspicuous? Weren't you comfortable with
Mrs. Middleton? She seemed a miraculously nice old body for a lodging-house keeper, and fussed
over you no end----"

"It was for your sake that I wanted to be in a good hotel, now our engagement has been announced,"
explained Miss Lorenzi. "I didn't think it suitable for the Honourable Stephen Knight's future
wife to go on living in stuffy lodgings. And as you've insisted on my accepting an income of
eighty pounds a month till we're married, I'm able to afford a little luxury, dearest. I can
tell you it's a pleasure, after all I've suffered!--and I felt I owed you something in return
for your generosity. I wanted your fiancée to do you credit in the eyes of the world."

Stephen bit his lip. "I see," he said slowly.

Yet what he saw most clearly was a very different picture. Margot as she had seemed the day
he met her first, in the despised South Kensington lodgings, whither he had been implored to
come in haste, if he wished to save a wretched, starving girl from following her father out
of a cruel world. Of course, he had seen her in court, and had reluctantly encountered her
photograph several times before he had given up looking at illustrated papers for fear of what
he might find in them. But Margot's tragic beauty, as presented by photographers, or as seen
from a distance, loyally seated at the claimant's side, was as nothing to the dark splendour
of her despair when the claimant was in his new-made grave. It was the day after the burial
that she had sent for Stephen; and her letter had arrived, as it happened, when he was thinking
of the girl, wondering whether she had friends who would stand by her, or whether a member
of his family might, without being guilty of bad taste, dare offer help.

Her tear-blotted letter had settled that doubt, and it had been so despairing, so suggestive
of frenzy in its wording, that Stephen had impulsively rushed off to South Kensington at once,
without stopping to think whether it would not be better to send a representative combining
the gentleness of the dove with the wisdom of the serpent, and armed for emergencies with a
blank cheque.

Margot's hair, so charmingly dressed now, folding in soft dark waves on either side her face,
almost hiding the pink-tipped ears, had been tumbled, that gloomy afternoon six weeks ago,
with curls escaping here and there; and in the course of their talk a great coil had fallen
down over her shoulders. It was the sort of thing that happens to the heroine of a melodrama,
if she has plenty of hair; but Stephen did not think of that then. He thought of nothing except
his sympathy for a beautiful girl brought, through no fault of her own, to the verge of starvation
and despair, and of how he could best set about helping her.

She had not even money enough to buy mourning. Lorenzi had left debts which she could not pay.
She had no friends. She did not know what was to become of her. She had not slept for many
nights. She had made up her mind to die as her father had died, because it seemed the only
thing to do, when suddenly the thought of Stephen had flashed into her mind, as if sent there
by her guardian angel. She had heard that he was good and charitable to everybody, and once
she had seen him looking at her kindly, in court, as if he were sorry for her, and could read
something of what was in her heart. She had imagined it perhaps. But would he forgive her for
writing to him? Would he help her, and save her life?

Any one who knew Stephen could have prophesied what his answer would be. He had hated it when
she snatched his hand to kiss at the end of their interview; but he would scarcely have been
a human young man if he had not felt a sudden tingle of the blood at the touch of such lips
as Margot Lorenzi's. Never had she seemed so beautiful to him since that first day; but he
had called again and again, against his brother's urgent advice (when he had confessed the
first visit); and the story that the Duchess of Amidon was telling her friends, though founded
entirely on her own imagination of the scene which had brought about Stephen's undoing, was
not very far from the truth.

Now, he saw a picture of Margot as he had seen her in the lodgings she hated; and he wished
to heaven that he might think of her as he had thought of her then.

"I've got something important to say to you," the girl went on, when she realized that Stephen
intended to dismiss the subject of the hotel, as he had dismissed the subject of the interview.
"That's the reason I wired. But I won't speak a word till you've told me what your brother
and the Duchess of Amidon think about you and me."

"There's nothing to tell," Stephen answered almost sullenly. And indeed there was no news of
his Cumberland visit which it would be pleasant or wise to retail.

Margot Lorenzi's complexion was not one of her greatest beauties. It was slightly sallow, so
she made artistic use of a white cosmetic, which gave her skin the clearness of a camellia
petal. But she had been putting on rather more than usual since her father's death, because
it was suitable as well as becoming to be pale when one was in deep mourning. Consequently
Margot could not turn perceptibly whiter, but she felt the blood go ebbing away from her face
back upon her heart.

"Stephen! Don't they mean to receive me, when we're married?" she stammered.

"I don't think they've much use for either of us," Stephen hedged, to save her feelings. "Northmorland
and I have never been great pals, you know. He's twenty years older than I am; and since he
married the Duchess of Amidon----"

"And her money! Oh, it's no use beating about the bush. I hate them both. Lord Northmorland
has a fiendish, vindictive nature."

"Come, you mustn't say that, Margot. He has nothing of the sort. He's a curious mixture. A
man of the world, and a bit of a Puritan----"

"So are you a Puritan, at heart," she broke in.

Stephen laughed. "No one ever accused me of Puritanism before."

"Maybe you've never shown any one else that side of you, as you show it to me. You're always
being shocked at what I do and say."

For that, it was hardly necessary to be a Puritan. But Stephen shrugged his shoulders instead
of answering.

"Your brother is a cold-hearted tyrant, and his wife is a snob. If she weren't, she wouldn't
hang on to her duchess-hood after marrying again. It would be good enough for me to call myself
Lady Northmorland, and I hope I shall some day."

Stephen's sensitive nostrils quivered. He understood in that moment how a man might actually
wish to strike a nagging virago of a woman, no matter how beautiful. And he wondered with a
sickening heaviness of heart how he was to go on with the wretched business of his engagement.
But he pushed the question out of his mind, fiercely. He was in for this thing now. He must go on.

"Let all that alone, won't you?" he said, in a well-controlled tone.

"I can't," Margot exclaimed. "I hate your brother. He killed my father."

"Because he defended the honour of our grandfather, and upheld his own rights, when Mr. Lorenzi
came to England to dispute them?"

"Who knows if they were his rights, or my father's? My father believed they were his, or he
wouldn't have crossed the ocean and spent all his money in the hope of stepping into your brother's
shoes."

There were those--and Lord Northmorland and the Duchess of Amidon were among them--who did
not admit that Lorenzi had believed in his "rights." And as for the money he had spent in trying
to establish a legal claim to the Northmorland title and estates, it had not been his own,
but lent him by people he had hypnotized with his plausible eloquence.

"That question was decided in court----"

"It would be harder for a foreigner to get an English nobleman's title away than for a camel
to go through the eye of the tiniest needle in the world. But never mind. All that's buried
in his grave, and you're giving me everything father wanted me to have. I wish I could keep
my horrid temper better in hand, and I'd never make you look so cross. But I inherited my emotional
nature from Margherita Lorenzi, I suppose. What can you expect of a girl who had an Italian
prima donna for a grandmother? And I oughtn't to quarrel with the fair Margherita for leaving
me her temper, since she left me her face too, and I'm fairly well satisfied with that. Everybody
says I'm the image of my grandmother. And you ought to know, after seeing her picture in dozens
of illustrated papers, as well as in that pamphlet poor father published."

"If you want me to tell you that you are one of the handsomest women who ever lived, I'll do
so at once," said Stephen.

Margot smiled. "You really mean it?"

"There couldn't be two opinions on that subject."

"Then, if you think I'm so beautiful, don't let your brother and his snobbish Duchess spoil
my life."

"They can't spoil it."

"Yes, they can. They can keep me from being a success in their set, your set--the only set."

"Perhaps they can do that. But England isn't the only country, anyhow. I've been thinking that
when--by and by--we might take a long trip round the world----"

"Hang the world! England's my world. I've always looked forward to England, ever since I was
a little thing, before mamma died, and I used to hear father repeating the romantic family
story--how, if he could only find his mother's letters that she'd tried to tell him about when
she was dying, perhaps he might make a legal claim to a title and a fortune. He used to turn
to me and say: 'Maybe you'll be a great lady when you grow up, Margot, and I shall be an English
viscount.' Then, when he did find the letters, behind the secret partition in grandmother's
big old-fashioned sandal-wood fan-box, of which you've heard so much----"

"Too much, please, Margot."

"I beg your pardon! But anyway, you see why I want to live in England. My life and soul are
bound up in my success here. And I could have a success. You know I could. I am beautiful.
I haven't seen any woman whose face I'd change for mine. I won't be cheated out of my happiness----"

"Very well, we'll live in England, then. That's settled," said Stephen, hastily. "And you shall
have all the success, all the happiness, that I can possibly give you. But we shall have to
get on without any help from my brother and sister-in-law, and perhaps without a good many
other people you might like to have for friends. It may seem hard, but you must make up your
mind to it, Margot. Luckily, there'll be enough money to do pleasant things with; and people
don't matter so immensely, once you've got used to----"

"They do, they do! The right people. I shall know them."

"You must have patience. Everybody is rather tired of our names just now. Things may change
some day. I'm ready to begin the experiment whenever you are."

"You are a dear," said Margot. And Stephen did not even shiver. "That brings me to what I had
to tell you. It's this: after all, we can't be married quite as soon as we expected."

"Can't we?" he echoed the words blankly. Was this to be a reprieve? But he was not sure that
he wanted a reprieve. He thought, the sooner the plunge was made, the better, maybe. Looking
forward to it had become almost unbearable.

"No, I must run over to Canada first, Stephen. I've just begun to see that. You might say,
I could go there with you after we were married, but it wouldn't be the same thing at all.
I ought to stay with some of my old friends while I'm still Margot Lorenzi. A lot of people
were awfully good to father, and I must show my gratitude. The sooner I sail the better, now
the news of our engagement has got ahead of me. I needn't stop away very long. Seven or eight
weeks--or nine at most, going and coming."

"Would you like to be married in Canada?" Stephen asked; perhaps partly to please her, but
probably more to disguise the fact that he had no impatient objections to raise against her
plan. "If you wished, I could go whenever----"

"Oh no, no!" she exclaimed quickly. "I wouldn't have you come there for anything in the world.
That is. I mean----" she corrected herself with an anxious, almost frightened side glance at
him--"I must fight it out alone. No, I don't mean that either. What a stupid way of putting
it! But it would bore you dreadfully to take such a journey, and it would be nicer anyhow to
be married in England--perhaps at St. George's. That used to be my dream, when I was a romantic
little girl, and loved to stuff my head full of English novels. I should adore a wedding at
St. George's. And oh, Stephen, you won't change your mind while I'm gone? It would kill me
if you jilted me after all. I shouldn't live a single day, if you weren't true."

"Don't talk nonsense, my dear girl. Of course I'm not going to change my mind," said Stephen.
"When do you want to sail?"

"The end of this week. You're sure you won't let your brother and that cruel Duchess talk you
over? I----"

"There's not the slightest chance of their talking to me at all," Stephen answered sharply.
"We've definitely quarrelled."

II

