Celia, who was altogether too young to occupy seriously the mind of a lad of twelve, had nevertheless
gained an ascendancy over him because of her willful, perverse, and sometimes scornful ways,
and because she was different from the other girls of the school. She had read many more books
than Phil, for she had access to a library, and she could tell him much of a world that he
only heard of through books and newspapers, which latter he had no habit of reading. He liked,
therefore, to be with Celia, not withstanding her little airs of superiority, and if she patronized
him, as she certainly did, probably the simple-minded young gentleman, who was unconsciously
bred in the belief that he and his own kin had no superiors anywhere, never noticed it. To
be sure they quarreled a good deal, but truth to say Phil was never more fascinated with the
little witch, whom he felt himself strong enough to protect, than when she showed a pretty
temper. He rather liked to be ordered about by the little tyrant. And sometimes he wished that
Murad Ault, the big boy of the school, would be rude to the small damsel, so that he could
show her how a knight would act under such circumstances. Murad Ault stood to Phil for the
satanic element in his peaceful world. He was not only big and strong of limb and broad of
chest, but he was very swarthy, and had closely curled black hair. He feared nothing, not even
the teacher, and was always doing some dare-devil thing to frighten the children. And because
he was dark, morose, and made no friends, and wished none, but went solitary his own dark way,
Phil fancied that he must have Spanish blood in his veins, and would no doubt grow up to be
a pirate. No other boy in the winter could skate like Murad Ault, with such strength and grace
and recklessness--thin ice and thick ice were all one to him, but he skated along, dashing
in and out, and sweeping away up and down the river in a whirl of vigor and daring, like a
black marauder. Yet he was best and most awesome in the swimming pond in summer--though it
was believed that he dared go in in the bitter winter, either by breaking the ice or through
an air-hole, and there was a story that he had ventured under the ice as fearless as a cold
fish. No one could dive from such a height as he, or stay so long under water; he liked to
stay under long enough to scare the spectators, and then appear at a distance, thrashing about
in the water as if he were rescuing himself from drowning, sputtering out at the same time
the most diabolical noises--curses, no doubt, for he had been heard to swear. But as he skated
alone he swam alone, appearing and disappearing at the swimming-place silently, with never
a salutation to any one. And he was as skillful a fisher as he was a swimmer. No one knew much
about him. He lived with his mother in a little cabin up among the hills, that had about it
scant patches of potatoes and corn and beans, a garden fenced in by stumproots, as ill-cared
for as the shanty. Where they came from no one knew. How they lived was a matter of conjecture,
though the mother gathered herbs and berries and bartered them at the village store, and Murad
occasionally took a hand in some neighbor's hay-field, or got a job of chopping wood in the
winter. The mother was old and small and withered, and they said evil-eyed. Probably she was
no more evil-eyed than any old woman who had such a hard struggle for existence as she had.
An old widow with an only son who looked like a Spaniard and acted like an imp! Here was another
sort of exotic in the New England life.

Celia had been brought to Rivervale by her mother about a year before this time, and the two
occupied a neat little cottage in the village, distinguished only by its neatness and a plot
of syringas, and pinks, and marigolds, and roses, and bachelor's-buttons, and boxes of the
tough little exotics, called "hen-and-chickens," in the door-yard, and a vigorous fragrant
honeysuckle over the front porch. She only dimly remembered her father, who had been a merchant
in a small way in the city, and dying left to his widow and only child a very moderate fortune.
The girl showed early an active and ingenious mind, and an equal love for books and for having
her own way; but she was delicate, and Mrs. Howard wisely judged that a few years in a country
village would improve her health and broaden her view of life beyond that of cockney provincialism.
For, though Mrs. Howard had more refinement than strength of mind, and passed generally for
a sweet and inoffensive little woman, she did not lack a certain true perception of values,
due doubtless to the fact that she had been a New England girl, and, before her marriage and
emigration to the great city, had passed her life among unexciting realities, and among people
who had leisure to think out things in a slow way. But the girl's energy and self-confidence
had no doubt been acquired from her father, who was cut off in mid-career of his struggle for
place in the metropolis, or from some remote ancestor. Before she was eleven years old her
mother had listened with some wonder and more apprehension to the eager forecast of what this
child intended to do when she became a woman, and already shrank from a vision of Celia on
a public platform, or the leader of some metempsychosis club. Through her affections only was
the child manageable, but in opposition to her spirit her mother was practically powerless.
Indeed, this little sprout of the New Age always spoke of her to Philip and to the Maitlands
as "little mother."

The epithet seemed peculiarly tender to Philip, who had lost his father before he was six years
old, and he was more attracted to the timid and gentle little widow than to his equable but
more robust Aunt Eusebia, Mrs. Maitland, his father's elder sister, whom Philip fancied not
a bit like his father except in sincerity, a quality common to the Maitlands and Burnetts.
Yet there was a family likeness between his aunt and a portrait of his father, painted by a
Boston artist of some celebrity, which his mother, who survived her husband only three years,
had saved for her boy. His father was a farmer, but a man of considerable cultivation, though
not college-bred--his last request on his death-bed was that Phil should be sent to college--a
man who made experiments in improving agriculture and the breed of cattle and horses, read
papers now and then on topics of social and political reform, and was the only farmer in all
the hill towns who had what might be called a library.

It was all scattered at the time of the winding up of the farm estate, and the only jetsam
that Philip inherited out of it was an annotated copy of Adam Smith's Wealth of Nations, Young's
Travels in France, a copy of The Newcomes, and the first American edition of Childe Harold.
Probably these odd volumes had not been considered worth any considerable bid at the auction.
From his mother, who was fond of books, and had on more than one occasion, of the failure of
teachers, taught in the village school in her native town before her marriage, Philip inherited
his love of poetry, and he well remembered how she used to try to inspire him with patriotism
by reading the orations of Daniel Webster (she was very fond of orations), and telling him
war stories about Grant and Sherman and Sheridan and Farragut and Lincoln. He distinctly remembered
also standing at her knees and trying, at intervals, to commit to memory the Rime of the Ancient
Mariner. He had learned it all since, because he thought it would please his mother, and because
there was something in it that appealed to his coming sense of the mystery of life. When he
repeated it to Celia, who had never heard of it, and remarked that it was all made up, and
that she never tried to learn a long thing like that that wasn't so, Philip could see that
her respect for him increased a little. He did not know that the child got it out of the library
the next day and never rested till she knew it by heart. Philip could repeat also the books
of the Bible in order, just as glibly as the multiplication-table, and the little minx, who
could not brook that a country boy should be superior to her in anything, had surprised her
mother by rattling them all off to her one Sunday evening, just as if she had been born in
New England instead of in New York. As to the other fine things his mother read him, out of
Ruskin and the like; Philip chiefly remembered what a pretty glow there was in his mother's
face when she read them, and that recollection was a valuable part of the boy's education.

Another valuable part of his education was the gracious influence in his aunt's household,
the spirit of candor, of affection, and the sane common-sense with which life was regarded,
the simplicity of its faith and the patience with which trials were borne. The lessons he learned
in it had more practical influence in his life than all the books he read. Nor were his opportunities
for the study of character so meagre as the limit of one family would imply. As often happens
in New England households, individualities were very marked, and from his stern uncle and his
placid aunt down to the sweet and nimble-witted Alice, the family had developed traits and
even eccentricities enough to make it a sort of microcosm of life. There, for instance, was
Patience, the maiden aunt, his father's sister, the news-monger of the fireside, whose powers
of ratiocination first gave Philip the Greek idea and method of reasoning to a point and arriving
at truth by the process of exclusion. It did not excite his wonder at the time, but afterwards
it appeared to him as one of the New England eccentricities of which the novelists make so
much. Patience was a home-keeping body and rarely left the premises except to go to church
on Sunday, although her cheerfulness and social helpfulness were tinged by nothing morbid.
The story was--Philip learned it long afterwards--that in her very young and frisky days Patience
had one evening remained out at some merry-making very late, and in fact had been escorted
home in the moonlight by a young gentleman when the tall, awful-faced clock, whose face her
mother was watching, was on the dreadful stroke of eleven. For this delinquency her mother
had reproved her, the girl thought unreasonably, and she had quickly replied, "Mother, I will
never go out again." And she never did. It was in fact a renunciation of the world, made apparently
without rage, and adhered to with cheerful obstinacy.

But although for many years Patience rarely left her home, until the habit of seclusion had
become as fixed as that of a nun who had taken the vows, no one knew so well as she the news
and gossip of the neighborhood, and her power of learning or divining it seemed to increase
with her years. She had a habit of sitting, when her household duties permitted, at a front
window, which commanded a long view of the river road, and gathering the news by a process
peculiar to herself. From this peep-hole she studied the character and destination of all the
passers-by that came within range of her vision, and made her comments and deductions, partly
to herself, but for the benefit of those who might be listening.

"Why, there goes Thomas Henry," she would say (she always called people by their first and
middle names). "Now, wherever can he be going this morning in the very midst of getting in
his hay? He can't be going to the Browns' for vegetables, for they set great store by their
own raising this year; and they don't get their provisions up this way either, because Mary
Ellen quarreled with Simmons's people last year. No!" she would exclaim, rising to a climax
of certainty on this point, "I'll be bound he is not going after anything in the eating line!"

Meantime Thomas Henry's wagon would be disappearing slowly up the sandy road, giving Patience
a chance to get all she could out of it, by eliminating all the errands Thomas Henry could
not possibly be going to do in order to arrive at the one he must certainly be bound on.

"They do say he's courting Eliza Merritt," she continued, "but Eliza never was a girl to make
any man leave his haying. No, he's never going to see Eliza, and if it isn't provisions or
love it's nothing short of sickness. Now, whoever is sick down there? It can't be Mary Ellen,
because she takes after her father's family and they are all hearty. It must be Mary Ellen's
little girls, and the measles are going the rounds. It must be they've all got the measles."

If the listeners suggested that possibly one of the little girls might have escaped, the suggestion
was decisively put aside.

"No; if one of them had been well, Mary Ellen would have sent her for the doctor."

Presently Thomas Henry's cart was heard rumbling back, and sure enough he was returning with
the doctor, and Patience hailed him from the gate and demanded news of Mary Ellen.

"Why, all her little girls have the measles," replied Thomas Henry, "and I had to leave my
haying to fetch the doctor."

"I want to know," said Patience.

Being the eldest born, Patience had appropriated to herself two rooms in the rambling old farmhouse
before her brother's marriage, from which later comers had never dislodged her, and with that
innate respect for the rights and peculiarities of others which was common in the household,
she was left to express her secluded life in her own way. As the habit of retirement grew upon
her she created a world of her own, almost as curious and more individually striking than the
museum of Cluny. There was not a square foot in her tiny apartment that did not exhibit her
handiwork. She was very fond of reading, and had a passion for the little prints and engravings
of "foreign views," which she wove into her realm of natural history. There was no flower or
leaf or fruit that she had seen that she could not imitate exactly in wax or paper. All over
the walls hung the little prints and engravings, framed in wreaths of moss and artificial flowers,
or in elaborate square frames made of pasteboard. The pasteboard was cut out to fit the picture,
and the margins, daubed with paste, were then strewn with seeds of corn and acorns and hazelnuts,
and then the whole was gilded so that the effect was almost as rich as it was novel. All about
the rooms, in nooks and on tables, stood baskets and dishes of fruit-apples and plums and peaches
and grapes-set in proper foliage of most natural appearance, like enough to deceive a bird
or the Sunday-school scholars, when on rare occasions they were admitted into this holy of
holies. Out of boxes, apparently filled with earth in the corners of the rooms, grew what seemed
to be vines trained to run all about the cornices and to festoon the pictures, but which were
really strings, colored in imitation of the real vine, and spreading out into paper foliage.
To complete the naturalistic character of these everlasting vines, which no scale-bugs could
assail, there were bunches of wonderful grapes depending here and there to excite the cupidity
of both bird and child. There was no cruelty in the nature of Patience, and she made prisoners
of neither birds nor squirrels, but cunning cages here and there held most lifelike counterfeits
of their willing captives. There was nothing in the room that was alive, except the dainty
owner, but it seemed to be a museum of natural history. The rugs on the floor were of her own
devising and sewing together, and rivaled in color and ingenuity those of Bokhara.

But Patience was a student of the heavens as well as of the earth, and it was upon the ceiling
that her imagination expanded. There one could see in their order the constellations of the
heavens, represented by paper-gilt stars, of all magnitudes, most wonderful to behold. This
part of her decorations was the most difficult of all. The constellations were not made from
any geography of the heavens, but from actual nightly observation of the positions of the heavenly
bodies. Patience confessed that the getting exactly right of the Great Dipper had caused her
most trouble. On the night that was constructed she sat up till three o'clock in the morning,
going out and studying it and coming in and putting up one star at a time. How could she reach
the high ceiling? Oh, she took a bean-pole, stuck the gilt star on the end of it, having paste
on the reverse side, and fixed it in its place. That was easy, only it was difficult to remember
when she came into the house the correct positions of the stars in the heavens. What the astronomer
and the botanist and the naturalist would have said of this little kingdom is unknown, but
Patience herself lived among the glories of the heavens and the beauties of the earth which
she had created. Probably she may have had a humorous conception of this, for she was not lacking
in a sense of humor. The stone step that led to her private door she had skillfully painted
with faint brown spots, so that when visitors made their exit from this part of the house they
would say, "Why, it rains!" but Patience would laugh and say, "I guess it is over by now."

III

"I'm not going to follow you about any more through the brush and brambles, Phil Burnett,"
and Celia, emerging from the thicket into a clearing, flung herself down on a knoll under a
beech-tree.

Celia was cross. They were out for a Saturday holiday on the hillside, where Phil said there
were oceans of raspberries and blueberries, beginning to get ripe, and where you could hear
the partridges drumming in the woods, and see the squirrels.

"Why, I'm not a bit tired," said Phil; "a boy wouldn't be." And he threw himself down on the
green moss, with his heels in the air, much more intent on the chatter of a gray squirrel in
the tree above him than on the complaints of his comrade.

"Why don't you go with a boy, then?" asked Celia, in a tone intended to be severe and dignified.

"A boy isn't so nice," said Philip, with the air of stating a general proposition, but not
looking at her.

"Oh," said Celia, only half appeased, "I quite agree with you." And she pulled down some beech
leaves from a low, hanging limb and began to plait a wreath.

"Who are you making that for?" asked Philip, who began to be aware that a cloud had come over
his holiday sky.

"Nobody in particular; it's just a wreath." And then there was silence, till Philip made another
attempt.

"Celia, I don't mind staying here if you are tired. Tell me something about New York City.
I wish we were there."

"Much you know about it," said Celia, but with some relaxation of her severity, for as she
looked at the boy in his country clothes and glanced at her own old frock and abraded shoes,
she thought what a funny appearance the pair would make on a fashionable city street.

"Would you rather be there?" asked Philip. "I thought you liked living here."

"Would I rather? What a question! Everybody would. The country is a good place to go to when
you are tired, as mamma is. But the city! The big fine houses, and the people all going about
in a hurry; the streets all lighted up at night, so that you can see miles and miles of lights;
and the horses and carriages, and the lovely dresses, and the churches full of nice people,
and such beautiful music! And once mamma took me to the theatre. Oh, Phil, you ought to see
a play, and the actors, all be-a-u-ti-fully dressed, and talking just like a party in a house,
and dancing, and being funny, and some of it so sad as to make you cry, and some of it so droll
that you had to laugh--just such a world as you read of in books and in poetry. I was so excited
that I saw the stage all night and could hardly sleep." The girl paused and looked away to
the river as if she saw it all again, and then added in a burst of confidence:

"Do you know, I mean to be an actress some day, when mamma will let me."

"Play-actors are wicked," said Phil, in a tone of decision; "our minister says so, and my uncle
says so."

"Fudge!" returned Celia. "Much they know about it. Did Alice say so?"

"I never asked her, but she said once that she supposed it was wrong, but she would like to
see a play."

"There, everybody would. Mamma says the people from the country go to the theatre always, a
good deal more than the people in the city go. I should like to see your aunt Patience in a
theatre and hear what she said about it. She's an actress if ever there was one."

Philip opened his eyes in protest.

"Mamma says it is as good as a play to hear her go on about people, and what they are like,
and what they are going to do, and then her little rooms are just like a scene on a stage.
If they were in New York everybody would go to see them and to hear her talk."

This was such a new view of his home life to Philip that he could neither combat it nor assent
to it, further than to say, that his aunt was just like everybody else, though she did have
some peculiar ways.

"Well, she acts," Celia insisted, "and most people act. Our minister acts all the time, mamma
says." Celia had plenty of opinions of her own, but when she ventured a startling statement
she had the habit of going under the shelter of "little mother," whose casual and unconsidered
remarks the girl turned to her own uses. Perhaps she would not have understood that her mother
merely meant that the minister's sacerdotal character was not exactly his own character. Just
as Philip noticed without being able to explain it that his uncle was one sort of a man in
his religious exercises and observances and another sort of man in his dealings with him. Children
often have recondite thoughts that do not get expression until their minds are more mature;
they even accept contradictory facts in their experience. There was one of the deacons who
was as kind as possible, and Philip believed was a good and pious man, who had the reputation
of being sharp and even tricky in a horse-trade. And Philip used to think how lucky it was
for him that he had been converted and was saved!

"Are you going to stay here always?" asked Philip, pursuing his own train of thought about
the city.

"Here? I should think not. If I were a boy I wouldn't stay here, I can tell you. What are you
going to do, Phil, what are you going to be?"

"Oh, I don't know," said Philip, turning over on his back and looking up into the blue world
through the leaves; "go to college, I suppose." Children are even more reticent than adults
about revealing their inner lives, and Philip would not, even to Celia, have confessed the
splendid dreams about his career that came to him that day in the hickory-tree, and that occupied
him a great deal.

"Of course," said this wise child, "but that's nothing. I mean, what are you going to do? My
cousin Jim has been all through college, and he doesn't do a thing except wear nice clothes
and hang around and talk. He says I'm a little chatter-box. I hate the sight of him."

"If he doesn't like you, then I don't like him," said Philip, as if he were making a general
and not a personal assertion. "Oh, I should like to travel."

"So should I, and see things and find things. Jim says he's going to be an explorer. He never
will. He wouldn't find anything. He twits me, and wants to know what is the good of my reading
about Africa and such things. Phil, don't you love to read about Africa, and the desert, and
the lions and the snakes, and bananas growing, and palm-trees, and the queerest black men and
women, real dwarfs some of them? I just love it."

"So do I," said Philip, "as far as I have read. Alice says it's awful dangerous--fevers and
wild beasts and savages and all that. But I shouldn't mind."

"Of course you wouldn't. But it costs like everything to go to Africa, or anywhere."

"I'd make a book about it, and give lectures, and make lots of money."

"I guess," said Celia, reflecting upon this proposition, "I'd be an engineer or a railroad
man, or something like that, and make a heap of money, and then I could go anywhere I liked.
I just hate to be poor. There!"

"Is Jim poor?"

"No; he can do what he pleases. I asked him, then, why he didn't go to Africa, and he wanted
to know what was the good of finding Livingstone, anyway. I'll bet Murad Ault would go to Africa."

"I wish he would," said Philip; and then, having moved so that he could see Celia's face, "Do
you like Murad Ault?"

"No," replied Celia, promptly; "he's horrid, but he isn't afraid of anything."

"Well, I don't care," said Philip, who was nettled by this implication. And Celia, who had
shown her power of irritating, took another tack.

"You don't think I'd be seen going around with him? Aren't we having a good time up here?"

"Bully!" replied Philip. And not seeing the way to expand this topic any further, he suddenly said:

"Celia, the next time I go on our hill I'll get you lots of sassafras."

"Oh, I love sassafras, and sweet-flag!"

"We can get that on the way home. I know a place." And then there was a pause. "Celia, you
didn't tell me what you are going to do when you grow up."

"Go to college."

"You? Why, girls do, don't they? I never thought of that."

"Of course they do. I don't know whether I'll write or be a doctor. I know one thing--I won't
teach school. It's the hatefulest thing there is! It's nice to be a doctor and have your own
horse, and go round like a man. If it wasn't for seeing so many sick people! I guess I'll write
stories and things."

"So would I," Philip confessed, "if I knew any."

"Why, you make 'em up. Mamma says they are all made up. I can make 'em in my head any time
when I'm alone."

"I don't know," Philip said, reflectively, "but I could make up a story about Murad Ault, and
how he got to be a pirate and got in jail and was hanged."

"Oh, that wouldn't be a real story. You have got to have different people in it, and have 'em
talk, just as they do in books; and somebody is in love and somebody dies, and the like of that."

"Well, there are such stories in The Pirate's Own Book, and it's awful interesting."

"I'd be ashamed, Philip Burnett, to read such a cruel thing, all about robbers and murders."

"I didn't read it through; Alice said she was going to burn it up. I shouldn't wonder if she did."

"Boys make me tired!" exclaimed this little piece of presumption; and this attitude of superiority
exasperated Philip more than anything else his mentor had said or done, and he asserted his
years of seniority by jumping up and saying, decidedly, "It's time to go home. Shall I carry
your wreath?"

"No, I thank you!" replied Celia, with frigid politeness.

"Down in the meadow," said Philip, making one more effort at conciliation, "we can get some
tigerlilies, and weave them in and make a beautiful wreath for your mother."

"She doesn't like things fussed up," was the gracious reply. And then the children trudged
along homeward, each with a distinct sense of injury.

IV

Traits that make a child disagreeable are apt to be perpetuated in the adult. The bumptious,
impudent, selfish, "hateful" boy may become a man of force, of learning, of decided capacity,
even of polish and good manners, and score success, so that those who know him say how remarkable
it is that such a "knurly" lad should have turned out so well. But some exigency in his career,
it may be extraordinary prosperity or bitter defeat, may at any moment reveal the radical traits
of the boy, the original ignoble nature. The world says that it is a "throwing back"; it is
probably only a persistence of the original meanness under all the overlaid cultivation and
restraint.

Without bothering itself about the recondite problems of heredity or the influence of environment,
the world wisely makes great account of "stock." The peasant nature, which may be a very different
thing from the peasant condition, persists, and shows itself in business affairs, in literature,
even in the artist. No marriage is wisely contracted without consideration of "stock." The
admirable qualities which make a union one of mutual respect and enduring affection--the generosities,
the magnanimities, the courage of soul, the crystalline truthfulness, the endurance of ill
fortune and of prosperity--are commonly the persistence of the character of the stock.

We can get on with surface weaknesses and eccentricities, and even disagreeable peculiarities,
if the substratum of character is sound. There is no woman or man so difficult--to get on with,
whatever his or her graces or accomplishments, as the one "you don't know where to find," as
the phrase is. Indeed, it has come to pass that the highest and final eulogy ever given to
a man, either in public or private life, is that he is one "you can tie to." And when you find
a woman of that sort you do not need to explain to the cynical the wisdom of the Creator in
making the most attractive and fascinating sex.

The traits, good and bad, persist; they may be veneered or restrained, they are seldom eradicated.
All the traits that made the great Napoleon worshiped, hated, and feared existed in the little
Bonaparte, as perfectly as the pea-pod in the flower. The whole of the First Empire was smirched
with Corsican vulgarity. The world always reckons with these radical influences that go to
make up a family. One of the first questions asked by an old politician, who knew his world
thoroughly, about any man becoming prominent, when there was a discussion of his probable action,
was, "Whom did he marry?"

There are exceptions to this general rule, and they are always noticeable when they occur--this
deviation from the traits of the earliest years--and offer material fox some of the subtlest
and most interesting studies of the novelist.

It was impossible for those who met Philip Burnett after he had left college, and taken his
degree in the law-school, and spent a year, more or less studiously, in Europe, to really know
him if they had not known the dreaming boy in his early home, with all the limitations as well
as the vitalizing influences of his start in life. And on the contrary, the error of the neighbors
of a lad in forecasting his career comes from the fact that they do not know him. The verdict
about Philip would probably have been that he was a very nice sort of a boy, but that he would
never "set the North River on fire." There was a headstrong, selfish, pushing sort of boy,
one of Philip's older schoolmates, who had become one of the foremost merchants and operators
in New York, and was already talked of for mayor. This success was the sort that fulfilled
the rural idea of getting on in the world, whereas Philip's accomplishments, seen through the
veneer of conceit which they had occasioned him to take on, did not commend themselves as anything
worth while. Accomplishments rarely do unless they are translated into visible position or
into the currency of the realm. How else can they be judged? Does not the great public involuntarily
respect the author rather for the sale of his books than for the books themselves?

The period of Philip's novitiate--those most important years from his acquaintance with Celia
Howard to the attainment of his professional degree--was most interesting to him, but the story
of it would not detain the reader of exciting fiction. He had elected to use his little patrimony
in making himself instead of in making money--if merely following his inclination could be
called an election. If he had reasoned about it he would have known that the few thousands
of dollars left to him from his father's estate, if judiciously invested in business, would
have grown to a good sum when he came of age, and he would by that time have come into business
habits, so that all he would need to do would be to go on and make more money. If he had reasoned
more deeply he would have seen that by this process he would become a man of comparatively
few resources for the enjoyment of life, and a person of very little interest to himself or
to anybody else. So perhaps it was just as well that he followed his instincts and postponed
the making of money until he had made himself, though he was to have a good many bitter days
when the possession of money seemed to him about the one thing desirable.

It was Celia, who had been his constant counselor and tormentor, about the time when she was
beginning to feel a little shy and long-legged, in her short skirts, who had, in a romantic
sympathy with his tastes, opposed his going into a "store" as a clerk, which seemed to the
boy at one time an ideal situation for a young man.

"A store, indeed!" cried the young lady; "pomatum on your hair, and a grin on your face; snip,
snip, snip, calico, ribbons, yard-stick; 'It's very becoming, miss, that color; this is only
a sample, only a remnant, but I shall have a new stock in by Friday; anything else, ma'am,
today?' Sho! Philip, for a man!"

Fortunately for Philip there lived in the village an old waif, a scholarly oddity, uncommunicative,
whose coming to dwell there had excited much gossip before the inhabitants got used to his
odd ways.

Usually reticent and rough of speech--the children thought he was an old bear--he was nevertheless
discovered to be kindly and even charitable in neighborhood emergencies, and the minister said
he was about the most learned man he ever knew. His history does not concern us, but he was
doubtless one of the men whose talents have failed to connect with success in anything, who
had had his bout with the world, and retired into peaceful seclusion in an indulgence of a
mild pessimism about the world generally.

He lived alone, except for the rather neutral presence of Aunt Hepsy, who had formerly been
a village tailoress, and whose cottage he had bought with the proviso that the old woman should
continue in it as "help." With Aunt Hepsy he was no more communicative than with anybody else.
"He was always readin', when he wasn't goin' fishin' or off in the woods with his gun, and
never made no trouble, and was about the easiest man to get along with she ever see. You mind
your business and he'll mind his'n." That was the sum of Aunt Hepsy's delivery about the recluse,
though no doubt her old age was enriched by constant "study" over his probable history and
character. But Aunt Hepsy, since she had given up tailoring, was something of a recluse herself.

The house was full of books, mostly queer books, "in languages nobody knows what," as Aunt
Hepsy said, which made Philip open his eyes when he went there one day to take to the old man
a memorandum-book which he had found on Mill Brook. The recluse took a fancy to the ingenuous
lad when he saw he was interested in books, and perhaps had a mind not much more practical
than his own; the result was an acquaintance, and finally an intimacy--at which the village
wondered until it transpired that Philip was studying with the old fellow, who was no doubt
a poor shack of a school-teacher in disguise.

It was from this gruff friend that Philip learned Greek and Latin enough to enable him to enter
college, not enough drill and exact training in either to give him a high stand, but an appreciation
of the literatures about which the old scholar was always enthusiastic. Philip regretted all
his life that he had not been severely drilled in the classics and mathematics, for he never
could become a specialist in anything. But perhaps, even in this, fate was dealing with him
according to his capacities. And, indeed, he had a greater respect for the scholarship of his
wayside tutor than for the pedantic acquirements of many men he came to know afterwards. It
was from him that Philip learned about books and how to look for what he wanted to know, and
it was he who directed Philip's taste to the best. When he went off to college the lad had
not a good preparation, but he knew a great deal that would not count in the entrance examinations.

"You will need all the tools you can get the use of, my boy, in the struggle," was the advice
of his mentor, "and the things you will need most may be those you have thought least of. I
never go fishing without both fly and bait."

Philip was always grateful that before he entered college he had a fine reading knowledge of
French, and that he knew enough German to read and enjoy Heine's poems and prose, and that
he had read, or read in, pretty much all the English classics.

He used to recall the remark of a lad about his own age, who was on a vacation visit to Rivervale,
and had just been prepared for college at one of the famous schools. The boys liked each other
and were much together in the summer, and talked about what interested them during their rambles,
carrying the rod or the fowling-piece. Philip naturally had most to say about the world he
knew, which was the world of books--that is to say, the stored information that had accumulated
in the world. This more and more impressed the trained student, who one day exclaimed:

"By George! I might have known something if I hadn't been kept at school all my life."

Philip's career in college could not have been called notable. He was not one of the dozen
stars in the class-room, but he had a reputation of another sort. His classmates had a habit
of resorting to him if they wanted to "know anything" outside the text-books, for the range
of his information seemed to them encyclopaedic. On the other hand, he escaped the reputation
of what is called "a good fellow." He was not so much unpopular as he was unknown in the college
generally, but those who did know him were tolerant of the fact that he cared more for reading
than for college sports or college politics. It must be confessed that he added little to the
reputation of the university, since his name was never once mentioned in the public prints--search
has been made since the public came to know him as a writer--as a hero in any crew or team
on any game field. Perhaps it was a little selfish that his muscle developed in the gymnasium
was not put into advertising use for the university. The excuse was that he had not time to
become an athlete, any more than he had time to spend three years in the discipline of the
regular army, which was in itself an excellent thing.

