Give a man a trade befitting his sex, to a young man a trade befitting his age. Sedentary indoor
employments, which make the body tender and effeminate, are neither pleasing nor suitable.
No lad ever wanted to be a tailor. It takes some art to attract a man to this woman's work.[Footnote:
There were no tailors among the ancients; men's clothes were made at home by the women.] The
same hand cannot hold the needle and the sword. If I were king I would only allow needlework
and dressmaking to be done by women and cripples who are obliged to work at such trades. If
eunuchs were required I think the Easterns were very foolish to make them on purpose. Why not
take those provided by nature, that crowd of base persons without natural feeling? There would
be enough and to spare.  The weak, feeble, timid man is condemned by nature to a sedentary
life, he is fit to live among women or in their fashion. Let him adopt one of their trades
if he likes; and if there must be eunuchs let them take those men who dishonour their sex by
adopting trades unworthy of it. Their choice proclaims a blunder on the part of nature; correct
it one way or other, you will do no harm.

An unhealthy trade I forbid to my pupil, but not a difficult or dangerous one. He will exercise
himself in strength and courage; such trades are for men not women, who claim no share in them,
Are not men ashamed to poach upon the women's trades?

    "Luctantur paucae, comedunt coliphia paucae.
     Vos lanam trahitis, calathisque peracta refertis
     Vellera."--Juven. Sat. II. V. 55.

Women are not seen in shops in Italy, and to persons accustomed to the streets of England and
France nothing could look gloomier. When I saw drapers selling ladies ribbons, pompons, net,
and chenille, I thought these delicate ornaments very absurd in the coarse hands fit to blow
the bellows and strike the anvil. I said to myself, "In this country women should set up as
steel-polishers and armourers." Let each make and sell the weapons of his or her own sex; knowledge
is acquired through use.

I know I have said too much for my agreeable contemporaries, but I sometimes let myself be
carried away by my argument. If any one is ashamed to be seen wearing a leathern apron or handling
a plane, I think him a mere slave of public opinion, ready to blush for what is right when
people poke fun at it. But let us yield to parents' prejudices so long as they do not hurt
the children. To honour trades we are not obliged to practise every one of them, so long as
we do not think them beneath us. When the choice is ours and we are under no compulsion, why
not choose the pleasanter, more attractive and more suitable trade. Metal work is useful, more
useful, perhaps, than the rest, but unless for some special reason Emile shall not be a blacksmith,
a locksmith nor an iron-worker. I do not want to see him a Cyclops at the forge. Neither would
I have him a mason, still less a shoemaker. All trades must be carried on, but when the choice
is ours, cleanliness should be taken into account; this is not a matter of class prejudice,
our senses are our guides. In conclusion, I do not like those stupid trades in which the workmen
mechanically perform the same action without pause and almost without mental effort. Weaving,
stocking-knitting, stone-cutting; why employ intelligent men on such work? it is merely one
machine employed on another.

All things considered, the trade I should choose for my pupil, among the trades he likes, is
that of a carpenter. It is clean and useful; it may be carried on at home; it gives enough
exercise; it calls for skill and industry, and while fashioning articles for everyday use,
there is scope for elegance and taste. If your pupil's talents happened to take a scientific
turn, I should not blame you if you gave him a trade in accordance with his tastes, for instance,
he might learn to make mathematical instruments, glasses, telescopes, etc.

When Emile learns his trade I shall learn it too. I am convinced he will never learn anything
thoroughly unless we learn it together. So we shall both serve our apprenticeship, and we do
not mean to be treated as gentlemen, but as real apprentices who are not there for fun; why
should not we actually be apprenticed? Peter the Great was a ship's carpenter and drummer to
his own troops; was not that prince at least your equal in birth and merit? You understand
this is addressed not to Emile but to you--to you, whoever you may be.

Unluckily we cannot spend the whole of our time at the workshop. We are not only 'prentice-carpenters
but 'prentice-men--a trade whose apprenticeship is longer and more exacting than the rest.
What shall we do? Shall we take a master to teach us the use of the plane and engage him by
the hour like the dancing-master? In that case we should be not apprentices but students, and
our ambition is not merely to learn carpentry but to be carpenters. Once or twice a week I
think we should spend the whole day at our master's; we should get up when he does, we should
be at our work before him, we should take our meals with him, work under his orders, and after
having had the honour of supping at his table we may if we please return to sleep upon our
own hard beds. This is the way to learn several trades at once, to learn to do manual work
without neglecting our apprenticeship to life.

Let us do what is right without ostentation; let us not fall into vanity through our efforts
to resist it. To pride ourselves on our victory over prejudice is to succumb to prejudice.
It is said that in accordance with an old custom of the Ottomans, the sultan is obliged to
work with his hands, and, as every one knows, the handiwork of a king is a masterpiece. So
he royally distributes his masterpieces among the great lords of the Porte and the price paid
is in accordance with the rank of the workman. It is not this so-called abuse to which I object;
on the contrary, it is an advantage, and by compelling the lords to share with him the spoils
of the people it is so much the less necessary for the prince to plunder the people himself.
Despotism needs some such relaxation, and without it that hateful rule could not last.

The real evil in such a custom is the idea it gives that poor man of his own worth. Like King
Midas he sees all things turn to gold at his touch, but he does not see the ass' ears growing.
Let us keep Emile's hands from money lest he should become an ass, let him take the work but
not the wages. Never let his work be judged by any standard but that of the work of a master.
Let it be judged as work, not because it is his. If anything is well done, I say, "That is
a good piece of work," but do not ask who did it. If he is pleased and proud and says, "I did
it," answer indifferently, "No matter who did it, it is well done."

Good mother, be on your guard against the deceptions prepared for you. If your son knows many
things, distrust his knowledge; if he is unlucky enough to be rich and educated in Paris he
is ruined. As long as there are clever artists he will have every talent, but apart from his
masters he will have none. In Paris a rich man knows everything, it is the poor who are ignorant.
Our capital is full of amateurs, especially women, who do their work as M. Gillaume invents
his colours. Among the men I know three striking exceptions, among the women I know no exceptions,
and I doubt if there are any. In a general way a man becomes an artist and a judge of art as
he becomes a Doctor of Laws and a magistrate.

If then it is once admitted that it is a fine thing to have a trade, your children would soon
have one without learning it. They would become postmasters like the councillors of Zurich.
Let us have no such ceremonies for Emile; let it be the real thing not the sham. Do not say
what he knows, let him learn in silence. Let him make his masterpiece, but not be hailed as
master; let him be a workman not in name but in deed.

If I have made my meaning clear you ought to realise how bodily exercise and manual work unconsciously
arouse thought and reflexion in my pupil, and counteract the idleness which might result from
his indifference to men's judgments, and his freedom from passion.

But beware of anticipating teaching which demands more maturity of mind. Emile will not long
be a workman before he discovers those social inequalities he had not previously observed.
He will want to question me in turn on the maxims I have given him, maxims he is able to understand.
When he derives everything from me, when he is so nearly in the position of the poor, he will
want to know why I am so far removed from it. All of a sudden he may put scathing questions
to me. "You are rich, you tell me, and I see you are. A rich man owes his work to the community
like the rest because he is a man. What are you doing for the community?" What would a fine
tutor say to that? I do not know. He would perhaps be foolish enough to talk to the child of
the care he bestows upon him. The workshop will get me out of the difficulty. "My dear Emile
that is a very good question; I will undertake to answer for myself, when you can answer for
yourself to your own satisfaction. Meanwhile I will take care to give what I can spare to you
and to the poor, and to make a table or a bench every week, so as not to be quite useless."

We have come back to ourselves. Having entered into possession of himself, our child is now
ready to cease to be a child. He is more than ever conscious of the necessity which makes him
dependent on things. After exercising his body and his senses you have exercised his mind and
his judgment. Finally we have joined together the use of his limbs and his faculties. We have
made him a worker and a thinker; we have now to make him loving and tender-hearted, to perfect
reason through feeling. But before we enter on this new order of things, let us cast an eye
over the stage we are leaving behind us, and perceive as clearly as we can how far we have got.

At first our pupil had merely sensations, now he has ideas; he could only feel, now he reasons.
For from the comparison of many successive or simultaneous sensations and the judgment arrived
at with regard to them, there springs a sort of mixed or complex sensation which I call an idea.

The way in which ideas are formed gives a character to the human mind. The mind which derives
its ideas from real relations is thorough; the mind which relies on apparent relations is superficial.
He who sees relations as they are has an exact mind; he who fails to estimate them aright has
an inaccurate mind; he who concocts imaginary relations, which have no real existence, is a
madman; he who does not perceive any relation at all is an imbecile.  Clever men are distinguished
from others by their greater or less aptitude for the comparison of ideas and the discovery
of relations between them.

Simple ideas consist merely of sensations compared one with another. Simple sensations involve
judgments, as do the complex sensations which I call simple ideas. In the sensation the judgment
is purely passive; it affirms that I feel what I feel. In the percept or idea the judgment
is active; it connects, compares, it discriminates between relations not perceived by the senses.
That is the whole difference; but it is a great difference. Nature never deceives us; we deceive
ourselves.

I see some one giving an ice-cream to an eight-year-old child; he does not know what it is
and puts the spoon in his mouth. Struck by the cold he cries out, "Oh, it burns!" He feels
a very keen sensation, and the heat of the fire is the keenest sensation he knows, so he thinks
that is what he feels. Yet he is mistaken; cold hurts, but it does not burn; and these two
sensations are different, for persons with more experience do not confuse them. So it is not
the sensation that is wrong, but the judgment formed with regard to it.

It is just the same with those who see a mirror or some optical instrument for the first time,
or enter a deep cellar in the depths of winter or at midsummer, or dip a very hot or cold hand
into tepid water, or roll a little ball between two crossed fingers. If they are content to
say what they really feel, their judgment, being purely passive, cannot go wrong; but when
they judge according to appearances, their judgment is active; it compares and establishes
by induction relations which are not really perceived. Then these inductions may or may not
be mistaken. Experience is required to correct or prevent error.

Show your pupil the clouds at night passing between himself and the moon; he will think the
moon is moving in the opposite direction and that the clouds are stationary. He will think
this through a hasty induction, because he generally sees small objects moving and larger ones
at rest, and the clouds seems larger than the moon, whose distance is beyond his reckoning.
So if you ask him what he sees, he replies, "A broken stick," for he is quite sure he is experiencing
this sensation. But when deceived by his judgment he goes further and, after saying he sees
a broken stick, he affirms that it really is broken he says what is not true. Why? Because
he becomes active and judges no longer by observation but by induction, he affirms what he
does not perceive, i.e., that the judgment he receives through one of his senses would be confirmed
by another.

Since all our errors arise in our judgment, it is clear, that had we no need for judgment,
we should not need to learn; we should never be liable to mistakes, we should be happier in
our ignorance than we can be in our knowledge. Who can deny that a vast number of things are
known to the learned, which the unlearned will never know? Are the learned any nearer truth?
Not so, the further they go the further they get from truth, for their pride in their judgment
increases faster than their progress in knowledge, so that for every truth they acquire they
draw a hundred mistaken conclusions. Every one knows that the learned societies of Europe are
mere schools of falsehood, and there are assuredly more mistaken notions in the Academy of
Sciences than in a whole tribe of American Indians.

The more we know, the more mistakes we make; therefore ignorance is the only way to escape
error. Form no judgments and you will never be mistaken. This is the teaching both of nature
and reason. We come into direct contact with very few things, and these are very readily perceived;
the rest we regard with profound indifference. A savage will not turn his head to watch the
working of the finest machinery or all the wonders of electricity. "What does that matter to
me?" is the common saying of the ignorant; it is the fittest phrase for the wise.

Unluckily this phrase will no longer serve our turn. Everything matters to us, as we are dependent
on everything, and our curiosity naturally increases with our needs. This is why I attribute
much curiosity to the man of science and none to the savage. The latter needs no help from
anybody; the former requires every one, and admirers most of all.

You will tell me I am going beyond nature. I think not. She chooses her instruments and orders
them, not according to fancy, but necessity. Now a man's needs vary with his circumstances.
There is all the difference in the world between a natural man living in a state of nature,
and a natural man living in society. Emile is no savage to be banished to the desert, he is
a savage who has to live in the town. He must know how to get his living in a town, how to
use its inhabitants, and how to live among them, if not of them.

In the midst of so many new relations and dependent on them, he must reason whether he wants
to or no. Let us therefore teach him to reason correctly.

The best way of learning to reason aright is that which tends to simplify our experiences,
or to enable us to dispense with them altogether without falling into error. Hence it follows
that we must learn to confirm the experiences of each sense by itself, without recourse to
any other, though we have been in the habit of verifying the experience of one sense by that
of another. Then each of our sensations will become an idea, and this idea will always correspond
to the truth. This is the sort of knowledge I have tried to accumulate during this third phase
of man's life.

This method of procedure demands a patience and circumspection which few teachers possess;
without them the scholar will never learn to reason. For example, if you hasten to take the
stick out of the water when the child is deceived by its appearance, you may perhaps undeceive
him, but what have you taught him? Nothing more than he would soon have learnt for himself.
That is not the right thing to do. You have not got to teach him truths so much as to show
him how to set about discovering them for himself. To teach him better you must not be in such
a hurry to correct his mistakes. Let us take Emile and myself as an illustration.

To begin with, any child educated in the usual way could not fail to answer the second of my
imaginary questions in the affirmative. He will say, "That is certainly a broken stick." I
very much doubt whether Emile will give the same reply. He sees no reason for knowing everything
or pretending to know it; he is never in a hurry to draw conclusions. He only reasons from
evidence and on this occasion he has not got the evidence. He knows how appearances deceive
us, if only through perspective.

Moreover, he knows by experience that there is always a reason for my slightest questions,
though he may not see it at once; so he has not got into the habit of giving silly answers;
on the contrary, he is on his guard, he considers things carefully and attentively before answering.
He never gives me an answer unless he is satisfied with it himself, and he is hard to please.
Lastly we neither of us take any pride in merely knowing a thing, but only in avoiding mistakes.
We should be more ashamed to deceive ourselves with bad reasoning, than to find no explanation
at all. There is no phrase so appropriate to us, or so often on our lips, as, "I do not know;"
neither of us are ashamed to use it. But whether he gives the silly answer or whether he avoids
it by our convenient phrase "I do not know," my answer is the same. "Let us examine it."

This stick immersed half way in the water is fixed in an upright position. To know if it is
broken, how many things must be done before we take it out of the water or even touch it.

1. First we walk round it, and we see that the broken part follows us. So it is only our eye
that changes it; looks do not make things move.

2. We look straight down on that end of the stick which is above the water, the stick is no
longer bent, [Footnote: I have since found by more exact experiment that this is not the case.
Refraction acts in a circle, and the stick appears larger at the end which is in the water,
but this makes no difference to the strength of the argument, and the conclusion is correct.]
the end near our eye exactly hides the other end. Has our eye set the stick straight?

3. We stir the surface of the water; we see the stick break into several pieces, it moves in
zigzags and follows the ripples of the water. Can the motion we gave the water suffice to break,
soften, or melt the stick like this?

4. We draw the water off, and little by little we see the stick straightening itself as the
water sinks. Is not this more than enough to clear up the business and to discover refraction?
So it is not true that our eyes deceive us, for nothing more has been required to correct the
mistakes attributed to it.

Suppose the child were stupid enough not to perceive the result of these experiments, then
you must call touch to the help of sight. Instead of taking the stick out of the water, leave
it where it is and let the child pass his hand along it from end to end; he will feel no angle,
therefore the stick is not broken.

You will tell me this is not mere judgment but formal reasoning. Just so; but do not you see
that as soon as the mind has got any ideas at all, every judgment is a process of reasoning?
So that as soon as we compare one sensation with another, we are beginning to reason. The art
of judging and the art of reasoning are one and the same.

Emile will never learn dioptrics unless he learns with this stick.

This is the spirit of my whole method at this stage. If the child rolls a little ball between
two crossed fingers and thinks he feels two balls, I shall not let him look until he is convinced
there is only one.

This explanation will suffice, I hope, to show plainly the progress made by my pupil hitherto
and the route followed by him. But perhaps the number of things I have brought to his notice
alarms you. I shall crush his mind beneath this weight of knowledge. Not so, I am rather teaching
him to be ignorant of things than to know them. I am showing him the path of science, easy
indeed, but long, far-reaching and slow to follow. I am taking him a few steps along this path,
but I do not allow him to go far.

Compelled to learn for himself, he uses his own reason not that of others, for there must be
no submission to authority if you would have no submission to convention. Most of our errors
are due to others more than ourselves. This continual exercise should develop a vigour of mind
like that acquired by the body through labour and weariness. Another advantage is that his
progress is in proportion to his strength, neither mind nor body carries more than it can bear.
When the understanding lays hold of things before they are stored in the memory, what is drawn
from that store is his own; while we are in danger of never finding anything of our own in
a memory over-burdened with undigested knowledge.

Emile knows little, but what he knows is really his own; he has no half-knowledge. Among the
few things he knows and knows thoroughly this is the most valuable, that there are many things
he does not know now but may know some day, many more that other men know but he will never
know, and an infinite number which nobody will ever know.  He is large-minded, not through
knowledge, but through the power of acquiring it; he is open-minded, intelligent, ready for
anything, and, as Montaigne says, capable of learning if not learned. I am content if he knows
the "Wherefore" of his actions and the "Why" of his beliefs. For once more my object is not
to supply him with exact knowledge, but the means of getting it when required, to teach him
to value it at its true worth, and to love truth above all things.  By this method progress
is slow but sure, and we never need to retrace our steps.

Emile's knowledge is confined to nature and things. The very name of history is unknown to
him, along with metaphysics and morals. He has little power of generalisation, he has no skill
in abstraction. He perceives that certain qualities are common to certain things, without reasoning
about these qualities themselves. He is acquainted with the abstract idea of space by the help
of his geometrical figures; he is acquainted with the abstract idea of quantity by the help
of his algebraical symbols. These figures and signs are the supports on which these ideas may
be said to rest, the supports on which his senses repose. He does not attempt to know the nature
of things, but only to know things in so far as they affect himself. He only judges what is
outside himself in relation to himself, and his judgment is exact and certain. Caprice and
prejudice have no part in it. He values most the things which are of use to himself, and as
he never departs from this standard of values, he owes nothing to prejudice.

Emile is industrious, temperate, patient, stedfast, and full of courage. His imagination is
still asleep, so he has no exaggerated ideas of danger; the few ills he feels he knows how
to endure in patience, because he has not learnt to rebel against fate. As to death, he knows
not what it means; but accustomed as he is to submit without resistance to the law of necessity,
he will die, if die he must, without a groan and without a struggle; that is as much as we
can demand of nature, in that hour which we all abhor. To live in freedom, and to be independent
of human affairs, is the best way to learn how to die.

In a word Emile is possessed of all that portion of virtue which concerns himself. To acquire
the social virtues he only needs a knowledge of the relations which make those virtues necessary;
he only lacks knowledge which he is quite ready to receive.

He thinks not of others but of himself, and prefers that others should do the same. He makes
no claim upon them, and acknowledges no debt to them. He is alone in the midst of human society,
he depends on himself alone, for he is all that a boy can be at his age. He has no errors,
or at least only such as are inevitable; he has no vices, or only those from which no man can
escape. His body is healthy, his limbs are supple, his mind is accurate and unprejudiced, his
heart is free and untroubled by passion. Pride, the earliest and the most natural of passions,
has scarcely shown itself. Without disturbing the peace of others, he has passed his life contented,
happy, and free, so far as nature allows. Do you think that the earlier years of a child, who
has reached his fifteenth year in this condition, have been wasted?

BOOK IV

How swiftly life passes here below! The first quarter of it is gone before we know how to use
it; the last quarter finds us incapable of enjoying life. At first we do not know how to live;
and when we know how to live it is too late. In the interval between these two useless extremes
we waste three-fourths of our time sleeping, working, sorrowing, enduring restraint and every
kind of suffering. Life is short, not so much because of the short time it lasts, but because
we are allowed scarcely any time to enjoy it. In vain is there a long interval between the
hour of death and that of birth; life is still too short, if this interval is not well spent.

We are born, so to speak, twice over; born into existence, and born into life; born a human
being, and born a man. Those who regard woman as an imperfect man are no doubt mistaken, but
they have external resemblance on their side. Up to the age of puberty children of both sexes
have little to distinguish them to the eye, the same face and form, the same complexion and
voice, everything is the same; girls are children and boys are children; one name is enough
for creatures so closely resembling one another. Males whose development is arrested preserve
this resemblance all their lives; they are always big children; and women who never lose this
resemblance seem in many respects never to be more than children.

But, speaking generally, man is not meant to remain a child. He leaves childhood behind him
at the time ordained by nature; and this critical moment, short enough in itself, has far-reaching
consequences.

As the roaring of the waves precedes the tempest, so the murmur of rising passions announces
this tumultuous change; a suppressed excitement warns us of the approaching danger. A change
of temper, frequent outbreaks of anger, a perpetual stirring of the mind, make the child almost
ungovernable. He becomes deaf to the voice he used to obey; he is a lion in a fever; he distrusts
his keeper and refuses to be controlled.

With the moral symptoms of a changing temper there are perceptible changes in appearance. His
countenance develops and takes the stamp of his character; the soft and sparse down upon his
cheeks becomes darker and stiffer. His voice grows hoarse or rather he loses it altogether.
He is neither a child nor a man and cannot speak like either of them. His eyes, those organs
of the soul which till now were dumb, find speech and meaning; a kindling fire illumines them,
there is still a sacred innocence in their ever brightening glance, but they have lost their
first meaningless expression; he is already aware that they can say too much; he is beginning
to learn to lower his eyes and blush, he is becoming sensitive, though he does not know what
it is that he feels; he is uneasy without knowing why. All this may happen gradually and give
you time enough; but if his keenness becomes impatience, his eagerness madness, if he is angry
and sorry all in a moment, if he weeps without cause, if in the presence of objects which are
beginning to be a source of danger his pulse quickens and his eyes sparkle, if he trembles
when a woman's hand touches his, if he is troubled or timid in her presence, O Ulysses, wise
Ulysses! have a care! The passages you closed with so much pains are open; the winds are unloosed;
keep your hand upon the helm or all is lost.

This is the second birth I spoke of; then it is that man really enters upon life; henceforth
no human passion is a stranger to him. Our efforts so far have been child's play, now they
are of the greatest importance. This period when education is usually finished is just the
time to begin; but to explain this new plan properly, let us take up our story where we left it.

Our passions are the chief means of self-preservation; to try to destroy them is therefore
as absurd as it is useless; this would be to overcome nature, to reshape God's handiwork. If
God bade man annihilate the passions he has given him, God would bid him be and not be; He
would contradict himself. He has never given such a foolish commandment, there is nothing like
it written on the heart of man, and what God will have a man do, He does not leave to the words
of another man. He speaks Himself; His words are written in the secret heart.

Now I consider those who would prevent the birth of the passions almost as foolish as those
who would destroy them, and those who think this has been my object hitherto are greatly mistaken.

But should we reason rightly, if from the fact that passions are natural to man, we inferred
that all the passions we feel in ourselves and behold in others are natural? Their source,
indeed, is natural; but they have been swollen by a thousand other streams; they are a great
river which is constantly growing, one in which we can scarcely find a single drop of the original
stream. Our natural passions are few in number; they are the means to freedom, they tend to
self-preservation. All those which enslave and destroy us have another source; nature does
not bestow them on us; we seize on them in her despite.

The origin of our passions, the root and spring of all the rest, the only one which is born
with man, which never leaves him as long as he lives, is self-love; this passion is primitive,
instinctive, it precedes all the rest, which are in a sense only modifications of it. In this
sense, if you like, they are all natural. But most of these modifications are the result of
external influences, without which they would never occur, and such modifications, far from
being advantageous to us, are harmful. They change the original purpose and work against its
end; then it is that man finds himself outside nature and at strife with himself.

Self-love is always good, always in accordance with the order of nature. The preservation of
our own life is specially entrusted to each one of us, and our first care is, and must be,
to watch over our own life; and how can we continually watch over it, if we do not take the
greatest interest in it?

Self-preservation requires, therefore, that we shall love ourselves; we must love ourselves
above everything, and it follows directly from this that we love what contributes to our preservation.
Every child becomes fond of its nurse; Romulus must have loved the she-wolf who suckled him.
At first this attachment is quite unconscious; the individual is attracted to that which contributes
to his welfare and repelled by that which is harmful; this is merely blind instinct. What transforms
this instinct into feeling, the liking into love, the aversion into hatred, is the evident
intention of helping or hurting us. We do not become passionately attached to objects without
feeling, which only follow the direction given them; but those from which we expect benefit
or injury from their internal disposition, from their will, those we see acting freely for
or against us, inspire us with like feelings to those they exhibit towards us. Something does
us good, we seek after it; but we love the person who does us good; something harms us and
we shrink from it, but we hate the person who tries to hurt us.

The child's first sentiment is self-love, his second, which is derived from it, is love of
those about him; for in his present state of weakness he is only aware of people through the
help and attention received from them. At first his affection for his nurse and his governess
is mere habit. He seeks them because he needs them and because he is happy when they are there;
it is rather perception than kindly feeling. It takes a long time to discover not merely that
they are useful to him, but that they desire to be useful to him, and then it is that he begins
to love them.

So a child is naturally disposed to kindly feeling because he sees that every one about him
is inclined to help him, and from this experience he gets the habit of a kindly feeling towards
his species; but with the expansion of his relations, his needs, his dependence, active or
passive, the consciousness of his relations to others is awakened, and leads to the sense of
duties and preferences. Then the child becomes masterful, jealous, deceitful, and vindictive.
If he is not compelled to obedience, when he does not see the usefulness of what he is told
to do, he attributes it to caprice, to an intention of tormenting him, and he rebels. If people
give in to him, as soon as anything opposes him he regards it as rebellion, as a determination
to resist him; he beats the chair or table for disobeying him. Self-love, which concerns itself
only with ourselves, is content to satisfy our own needs; but selfishness, which is always
comparing self with others, is never satisfied and never can be; for this feeling, which prefers
ourselves to others, requires that they should prefer us to themselves, which is impossible.
Thus the tender and gentle passions spring from self-love, while the hateful and angry passions
spring from selfishness.  So it is the fewness of his needs, the narrow limits within which
he can compare himself with others, that makes a man really good; what makes him really bad
is a multiplicity of needs and dependence on the opinions of others. It is easy to see how
we can apply this principle and guide every passion of children and men towards good or evil.
True, man cannot always live alone, and it will be hard therefore to remain good; and this
difficulty will increase of necessity as his relations with others are extended. For this reason,
above all, the dangers of social life demand that the necessary skill and care shall be devoted
to guarding the human heart against the depravity which springs from fresh needs.

Man's proper study is that of his relation to his environment. So long as he only knows that
environment through his physical nature, he should study himself in relation to things; this
is the business of his childhood; when he begins to be aware of his moral nature, he should
study himself in relation to his fellow-men; this is the business of his whole life, and we
have now reached the time when that study should be begun.

As soon as a man needs a companion he is no longer an isolated creature, his heart is no longer
alone. All his relations with his species, all the affections of his heart, come into being
along with this. His first passion soon arouses the rest.

The direction of the instinct is uncertain. One sex is attracted by the other; that is the
impulse of nature. Choice, preferences, individual likings, are the work of reason, prejudice,
and habit; time and knowledge are required to make us capable of love; we do not love without
reasoning or prefer without comparison. These judgments are none the less real, although they
are formed unconsciously. True love, whatever you may say, will always be held in honour by
mankind; for although its impulses lead us astray, although it does not bar the door of the
heart to certain detestable qualities, although it even gives rise to these, yet it always
presupposes certain worthy characteristics, without which we should be incapable of love. This
choice, which is supposed to be contrary to reason, really springs from reason. We say Love
is blind because his eyes are better than ours, and he perceives relations which we cannot
discern. All women would be alike to a man who had no idea of virtue or beauty, and the first
comer would always be the most charming. Love does not spring from nature, far from it; it
is the curb and law of her desires; it is love that makes one sex indifferent to the other,
the loved one alone excepted.

We wish to inspire the preference we feel; love must be mutual. To be loved we must be worthy
of love; to be preferred we must be more worthy than the rest, at least in the eyes of our
beloved. Hence we begin to look around among our fellows; we begin to compare ourselves with
them, there is emulation, rivalry, and jealousy. A heart full to overflowing loves to make
itself known; from the need of a mistress there soon springs the need of a friend He who feels
how sweet it is to be loved, desires to be loved by everybody; and there could be no preferences
if there were not many that fail to find satisfaction. With love and friendship there begin
dissensions, enmity, and hatred. I behold deference to other people's opinions enthroned among
all these divers passions, and foolish mortals, enslaved by her power, base their very existence
merely on what other people think.

Expand these ideas and you will see where we get that form of selfishness which we call natural
selfishness, and how selfishness ceases to be a simple feeling and becomes pride in great minds,
vanity in little ones, and in both feeds continually at our neighbour's cost. Passions of this
kind, not having any germ in the child's heart, cannot spring up in it of themselves; it is
we who sow the seeds, and they never take root unless by our fault. Not so with the young man;
they will find an entrance in spite of us. It is therefore time to change our methods.

Let us begin with some considerations of importance with regard to the critical stage under
discussion. The change from childhood to puberty is not so clearly determined by nature but
that it varies according to individual temperament and racial conditions. Everybody knows the
differences which have been observed with regard to this between hot and cold countries, and
every one sees that ardent temperaments mature earlier than others; but we may be mistaken
as to the causes, and we may often attribute to physical causes what is really due to moral:
this is one of the commonest errors in the philosophy of our times. The teaching of nature
comes slowly; man's lessons are mostly premature. In the former case, the senses kindle the
imagination, in the latter the imagination kindles the senses; it gives them a precocious activity
which cannot fail to enervate the individual and, in the long run, the race. It is a more general
and more trustworthy fact than that of climatic influences, that puberty and sexual power is
always more precocious among educated and civilised races, than among the ignorant and barbarous.
[Footnote: "In towns," says M. Buffon, "and among the well-to-do classes, children accustomed
to plentiful and nourishing food sooner reach this state; in the country and among the poor,
children are more backward, because of their poor and scanty food." I admit the fact but not
the explanation, for in the districts where the food of the villagers is plentiful and good,
as in the Valais and even in some of the mountain districts of Italy, such as Friuli, the age
of puberty for both sexes is quite as much later than in the heart of the towns, where, in
order to gratify their vanity, people are often extremely parsimonious in the matter of food,
and where most people, in the words of the proverb, have a velvet coat and an empty belly.
It is astonishing to find in these mountainous regions big lads as strong as a man with shrill
voices and smooth chins, and tall girls, well developed in other respects, without any trace
of the periodic functions of their sex. This difference is, in my opinion, solely due to the
fact that in the simplicity of their manners the imagination remains calm and peaceful, and
does not stir the blood till much later, and thus their temperament is much less precocious.]
Children are preternaturally quick to discern immoral habits under the cloak of decency with
which they are concealed. The prim speech imposed upon them, the lessons in good behaviour,
the veil of mystery you profess to hang before their eyes, serve but to stimulate their curiosity.
It is plain, from the way you set about it, that they are meant to learn what you profess to
conceal; and of all you teach them this is most quickly assimilated.

Consult experience and you will find how far this foolish method hastens the work of nature
and ruins the character. This is one of the chief causes of physical degeneration in our towns.
The young people, prematurely exhausted, remain small, puny, and misshapen, they grow old instead
of growing up, like a vine forced to bear fruit in spring, which fades and dies before autumn.

To know how far a happy ignorance may prolong the innocence of children, you must live among
rude and simple people. It is a sight both touching and amusing to see both sexes, left to
the protection of their own hearts, continuing the sports of childhood in the flower of youth
and beauty, showing by their very familiarity the purity of their pleasures. When at length
those delightful young people marry, they bestow on each other the first fruits of their person,
and are all the dearer therefore. Swarms of strong and healthy children are the pledges of
a union which nothing can change, and the fruit of the virtue of their early years.

If the age at which a man becomes conscious of his sex is deferred as much by the effects of
education as by the action of nature, it follows that this age may be hastened or retarded
according to the way in which the child is brought up; and if the body gains or loses strength
in proportion as its development is accelerated or retarded, it also follows that the more
we try to retard it the stronger and more vigorous will the young man be. I am still speaking
of purely physical consequences; you will soon see that this is not all.

From these considerations I arrive at the solution of the question so often discussed--Should
we enlighten children at an early period as to the objects of their curiosity, or is it better
to put them off with decent shams? I think we need do neither. In the first place, this curiosity
will not arise unless we give it a chance. We must therefore take care not to give it an opportunity.
In the next place, questions one is not obliged to answer do not compel us to deceive those
who ask them; it is better to bid the child hold his tongue than to tell him a lie. He will
not be greatly surprised at this treatment if you have already accustomed him to it in matters
of no importance. Lastly, if you decide to answer his questions, let it be with the greatest
plainness, without mystery or confusion, without a smile. It is much less dangerous to satisfy
a child's curiosity than to stimulate it.

Let your answers be always grave, brief, decided, and without trace of hesitation. I need not
add that they should be true. We cannot teach children the danger of telling lies to men without
realising, on the man's part, the danger of telling lies to children. A single untruth on the
part of the master will destroy the results of his education.

Complete ignorance with regard to certain matters is perhaps the best thing for children; but
let them learn very early what it is impossible to conceal from them permanently. Either their
curiosity must never be aroused, or it must be satisfied before the age when it becomes a source
of danger. Your conduct towards your pupil in this respect depends greatly on his individual
circumstances, the society in which he moves, the position in which he may find himself, etc.
Nothing must be left to chance; and if you are not sure of keeping him in ignorance of the
difference between the sexes till he is sixteen, take care you teach him before he is ten.

I do not like people to be too fastidious in speaking with children, nor should they go out
of their way to avoid calling a spade a spade; they are always found out if they do. Good manners
in this respect are always perfectly simple; but an imagination soiled by vice makes the ear
over-sensitive and compels us to be constantly refining our expressions. Plain words do not
matter; it is lascivious ideas which must be avoided.

Although modesty is natural to man, it is not natural to children. Modesty only begins with
the knowledge of evil; and how should children without this knowledge of evil have the feeling
which results from it? To give them lessons in modesty and good conduct is to teach them that
there are things shameful and wicked, and to give them a secret wish to know what these things
are. Sooner or later they will find out, and the first spark which touches the imagination
will certainly hasten the awakening of the senses. Blushes are the sign of guilt; true innocence
is ashamed of nothing.

Children have not the same desires as men; but they are subject like them to the same disagreeable
needs which offend the senses, and by this means they may receive the same lessons in propriety.
Follow the mind of nature which has located in the same place the organs of secret pleasures
and those of disgusting needs; she teaches us the same precautions at different ages, sometimes
by means of one idea and sometimes by another; to the man through modesty, to the child through
cleanliness.

I can only find one satisfactory way of preserving the child's innocence, to surround him by
those who respect and love him. Without this all our efforts to keep him in ignorance fail
sooner or later; a smile, a wink, a careless gesture tells him all we sought to hide; it is
enough to teach him to perceive that there is something we want to hide from him. The delicate
phrases and expressions employed by persons of politeness assume a knowledge which children
ought not to possess, and they are quite out of place with them, but when we truly respect
the child's innocence we easily find in talking to him the simple phrases which befit him.
There is a certain directness of speech which is suitable and pleasing to innocence; this is
the right tone to adopt in order to turn the child from dangerous curiosity. By speaking simply
to him about everything you do not let him suspect there is anything left unsaid.  By connecting
coarse words with the unpleasant ideas which belong to them, you quench the first spark of
imagination; you do not forbid the child to say these words or to form these ideas; but without
his knowing it you make him unwilling to recall them. And how much confusion is spared to those
who speaking from the heart always say the right thing, and say it as they themselves have felt it!

"Where do little children come from?" This is an embarrassing question, which occurs very naturally
to children, one which foolishly or wisely answered may decide their health and their morals
for life. The quickest way for a mother to escape from it without deceiving her son is to tell
him to hold his tongue. That will serve its turn if he has always been accustomed to it in
matters of no importance, and if he does not suspect some mystery from this new way of speaking.
But the mother rarely stops there.  "It is the married people's secret," she will say, "little
boys should not be so curious." That is all very well so far as the mother is concerned, but
she may be sure that the little boy, piqued by her scornful manner, will not rest till he has
found out the married people's secret, which will very soon be the case.

Let me tell you a very different answer which I heard given to the same question, one which
made all the more impression on me, coming, as it did, from a woman, modest in speech and behaviour,
but one who was able on occasion, for the welfare of her child and for the cause of virtue,
to cast aside the false fear of blame and the silly jests of the foolish. Not long before the
child had passed a small stone which had torn the passage, but the trouble was over and forgotten.
"Mamma," said the eager child, "where do little children come from?" "My child," replied his
mother without hesitation, "women pass them with pains that sometimes cost their life." Let
fools laugh and silly people be shocked; but let the wise inquire if it is possible to find
a wiser answer and one which would better serve its purpose.

In the first place the thought of a need of nature with which the child is well acquainted
turns his thoughts from the idea of a mysterious process. The accompanying ideas of pain and
death cover it with a veil of sadness which deadens the imagination and suppresses curiosity;
everything leads the mind to the results, not the causes, of child-birth. This is the information
to which this answer leads. If the repugnance inspired by this answer should permit the child
to inquire further, his thoughts are turned to the infirmities of human nature, disgusting
things, images of pain. What chance is there for any stimulation of desire in such a conversation?
And yet you see there is no departure from truth, no need to deceive the scholar in order to
teach him.

Your children read; in the course of their reading they meet with things they would never have
known without reading. Are they students, their imagination is stimulated and quickened in
the silence of the study. Do they move in the world of society, they hear a strange jargon,
they see conduct which makes a great impression on them; they have been told so continually
that they are men that in everything men do in their presence they at once try to find how
that will suit themselves; the conduct of others must indeed serve as their pattern when the
opinions of others are their law. Servants, dependent on them, and therefore anxious to please
them, flatter them at the expense of their morals; giggling governesses say things to the four-year-old
child which the most shameless woman would not dare to say to them at fifteen. They soon forget
what they said, but the child has not forgotten what he heard. Loose conversation prepares
the way for licentious conduct; the child is debauched by the cunning lacquey, and the secret
of the one guarantees the secret of the other.

The child brought up in accordance with his age is alone. He knows no attachment but that of
habit, he loves his sister like his watch, and his friend like his dog. He is unconscious of
his sex and his species; men and women are alike unknown; he does not connect their sayings
and doings with himself, he neither sees nor hears, or he pays no heed to them; he is no more
concerned with their talk than their actions; he has nothing to do with it. This is no artificial
error induced by our method, it is the ignorance of nature. The time is at hand when that same
nature will take care to enlighten her pupil, and then only does she make him capable of profiting
by the lessons without danger. This is our principle; the details of its rules are outside
my subject; and the means I suggest with regard to other matters will still serve to illustrate
this.

Do you wish to establish law and order among the rising passions, prolong the period of their
development, so that they may have time to find their proper place as they arise. Then they
are controlled by nature herself, not by man; your task is merely to leave it in her hands.
If your pupil were alone, you would have nothing to do; but everything about him enflames his
imagination. He is swept along on the torrent of conventional ideas; to rescue him you must
urge him in the opposite direction. Imagination must be curbed by feeling and reason must silence
the voice of conventionality. Sensibility is the source of all the passions, imagination determines
their course.  Every creature who is aware of his relations must be disturbed by changes in
these relations and when he imagines or fancies he imagines others better adapted to his nature.
It is the errors of the imagination which transmute into vices the passions of finite beings,
of angels even, if indeed they have passions; for they must needs know the nature of every
creature to realise what relations are best adapted to themselves.

This is the sum of human wisdom with regard to the use of the passions. First, to be conscious
of the true relations of man both in the species and the individual; second, to control all
the affections in accordance with these relations.

But is man in a position to control his affections according to such and such relations? No
doubt he is, if he is able to fix his imagination on this or that object, or to form this or
that habit. Moreover, we are not so much concerned with what a man can do for himself, as with
what we can do for our pupil through our choice of the circumstances in which he shall be placed.
To show the means by which he may be kept in the path of nature is to show plainly enough how
he might stray from that path.

So long as his consciousness is confined to himself there is no morality in his actions; it
is only when it begins to extend beyond himself that he forms first the sentiments and then
the ideas of good and ill, which make him indeed a man, and an integral part of his species.
To begin with we must therefore confine our observations to this point.

These observations are difficult to make, for we must reject the examples before our eyes,
and seek out those in which the successive developments follow the order of nature.

A child sophisticated, polished, and civilised, who is only awaiting the power to put into
practice the precocious instruction he has received, is never mistaken with regard to the time
when this power is acquired. Far from awaiting it, he accelerates it; he stirs his blood to
a premature ferment; he knows what should be the object of his desires long before those desires
are experienced. It is not nature which stimulates him; it is he who forces the hand of nature;
she has nothing to teach him when he becomes a man; he was a man in thought long before he
was a man in reality.

The true course of nature is slower and more gradual. Little by little the blood grows warmer,
the faculties expand, the character is formed. The wise workman who directs the process is
careful to perfect every tool before he puts it to use; the first desires are preceded by a
long period of unrest, they are deceived by a prolonged ignorance, they know not what they
want. The blood ferments and bubbles; overflowing vitality seeks to extend its sphere. The
eye grows brighter and surveys others, we begin to be interested in those about us, we begin
to feel that we are not meant to live alone; thus the heart is thrown open to human affection,
and becomes capable of attachment.

The first sentiment of which the well-trained youth is capable is not love but friendship.
The first work of his rising imagination is to make known to him his fellows; the species affects
him before the sex. Here is another advantage to be gained from prolonged innocence; you may
take advantage of his dawning sensibility to sow the first seeds of humanity in the heart of
the young adolescent. This advantage is all the greater because this is the only time in his
life when such efforts may be really successful.

I have always observed that young men, corrupted in early youth and addicted to women and debauchery,
are inhuman and cruel; their passionate temperament makes them impatient, vindictive, and angry;
their imagination fixed on one object only, refuses all others; mercy and pity are alike unknown
to them; they would have sacrificed father, mother, the whole world, to the least of their
pleasures. A young man, on the other hand, brought up in happy innocence, is drawn by the first
stirrings of nature to the tender and affectionate passions; his warm heart is touched by the
sufferings of his fellow-creatures; he trembles with delight when he meets his comrade, his
arms can embrace tenderly, his eyes can shed tears of pity; he learns to be sorry for offending
others through his shame at causing annoyance. If the eager warmth of his blood makes him quick,
hasty, and passionate, a moment later you see all his natural kindness of heart in the eagerness
of his repentance; he weeps, he groans over the wound he has given; he would atone for the
blood he has shed with his own; his anger dies away, his pride abases itself before the consciousness
of his wrong-doing. Is he the injured party, in the height of his fury an excuse, a word, disarms
him; he forgives the wrongs of others as whole-heartedly as he repairs his own. Adolescence
is not the age of hatred or vengeance; it is the age of pity, mercy, and generosity. Yes, I
maintain, and I am not afraid of the testimony of experience, a youth of good birth, one who
has preserved his innocence up to the age of twenty, is at that age the best, the most generous,
the most loving, and the most lovable of men. You never heard such a thing; I can well believe
that philosophers such as you, brought up among the corruption of the public schools, are unaware
of it.

Man's weakness makes him sociable. Our common sufferings draw our hearts to our fellow-creatures;
we should have no duties to mankind if we were not men. Every affection is a sign of insufficiency;
if each of us had no need of others, we should hardly think of associating with them. So our
frail happiness has its roots in our weakness. A really happy man is a hermit; God only enjoys
absolute happiness; but which of us has any idea what that means? If any imperfect creature
were self-sufficing, what would he have to enjoy?  To our thinking he would be wretched and
alone. I do not understand how one who has need of nothing could love anything, nor do I understand
how he who loves nothing can be happy.

Hence it follows that we are drawn towards our fellow-creatures less by our feeling for their
joys than for their sorrows; for in them we discern more plainly a nature like our own, and
a pledge of their affection for us. If our common needs create a bond of interest our common
sufferings create a bond of affection. The sight of a happy man arouses in others envy rather
than love, we are ready to accuse him of usurping a right which is not his, of seeking happiness
for himself alone, and our selfishness suffers an additional pang in the thought that this
man has no need of us. But who does not pity the wretch when he beholds his sufferings? who
would not deliver him from his woes if a wish could do it? Imagination puts us more readily
in the place of the miserable man than of the happy man; we feel that the one condition touches
us more nearly than the other.  Pity is sweet, because, when we put ourselves in the place
of one who suffers, we are aware, nevertheless, of the pleasure of not suffering like him.
Envy is bitter, because the sight of a happy man, far from putting the envious in his place,
inspires him with regret that he is not there. The one seems to exempt us from the pains he
suffers, the other seems to deprive us of the good things he enjoys.

Do you desire to stimulate and nourish the first stirrings of awakening sensibility in the
heart of a young man, do you desire to incline his disposition towards kindly deed and thought,
do not cause the seeds of pride, vanity, and envy to spring up in him through the misleading
picture of the happiness of mankind; do not show him to begin with the pomp of courts, the
pride of palaces, the delights of pageants; do not take him into society and into brilliant
assemblies; do not show him the outside of society till you have made him capable of estimating
it at its true worth. To show him the world before he is acquainted with men, is not to train
him, but to corrupt him; not to teach, but to mislead.

By nature men are neither kings, nobles, courtiers, nor millionaires. All men are born poor
and naked, all are liable to the sorrows of life, its disappointments, its ills, its needs,
its suffering of every kind; and all are condemned at length to die.  This is what it really
means to be a man, this is what no mortal can escape. Begin then with the study of the essentials
of humanity, that which really constitutes mankind.

At sixteen the adolescent knows what it is to suffer, for he himself has suffered; but he scarcely
realises that others suffer too; to see without feeling is not knowledge, and as I have said
again and again the child who does not picture the feelings of others knows no ills but his
own; but when his imagination is kindled by the first beginnings of growing sensibility, he
begins to perceive himself in his fellow-creatures, to be touched by their cries, to suffer
in their sufferings. It is at this time that the sorrowful picture of suffering humanity should
stir his heart with the first touch of pity he has ever known.

If it is not easy to discover this opportunity in your scholars, whose fault is it? You taught
them so soon to play at feeling, you taught them so early its language, that speaking continually
in the same strain they turn your lessons against yourself, and give you no chance of discovering
when they cease to lie, and begin to feel what they say. But look at Emile; I have led him
up to this age, and he has neither felt nor pretended to feel. He has never said, "I love you
dearly," till he knew what it was to love; he has never been taught what expression to assume
when he enters the room of his father, his mother, or his sick tutor; he has not learnt the
art of affecting a sorrow he does not feel. He has never pretended to weep for the death of
any one, for he does not know what it is to die.  There is the same insensibility in his heart
as in his manners.  Indifferent, like every child, to every one but himself, he takes no interest
in any one; his only peculiarity is that he will not pretend to take such an interest; he is
less deceitful than others.

Emile having thought little about creatures of feeling will be a long time before he knows
what is meant by pain and death. Groans and cries will begin to stir his compassion, he will
turn away his eyes at the sight of blood; the convulsions of a dying animal will cause him
I know not what anguish before he knows the source of these impulses. If he were still stupid
and barbarous he would not feel them; if he were more learned he would recognise their source;
he has compared ideas too frequently already to be insensible, but not enough to know what
he feels.

So pity is born, the first relative sentiment which touches the human heart according to the
order of nature. To become sensitive and pitiful the child must know that he has fellow-creatures
who suffer as he has suffered, who feel the pains he has felt, and others which he can form
some idea of, being capable of feeling them himself. Indeed, how can we let ourselves be stirred
by pity unless we go beyond ourselves, and identify ourselves with the suffering animal, by
leaving, so to speak, our own nature and taking his. We only suffer so far as we suppose he
suffers; the suffering is not ours but his. So no one becomes sensitive till his imagination
is aroused and begins to carry him outside himself.

What should we do to stimulate and nourish this growing sensibility, to direct it, and to follow
its natural bent? Should we not present to the young man objects on which the expansive force
of his heart may take effect, objects which dilate it, which extend it to other creatures,
which take him outside himself? should we not carefully remove everything that narrows, concentrates,
and strengthens the power of the human self? that is to say, in other words, we should arouse
in him kindness, goodness, pity, and beneficence, all the gentle and attractive passions which
are naturally pleasing to man; those passions prevent the growth of envy, covetousness, hatred,
all the repulsive and cruel passions which make our sensibility not merely a cipher but a minus
quantity, passions which are the curse of those who feel them.

I think I can sum up the whole of the preceding reflections in two or three maxims, definite,
straightforward, and easy to understand.

FIRST MAXIM.--It is not in human nature to put ourselves in the place of those who are happier
than ourselves, but only in the place of those who can claim our pity.

If you find exceptions to this rule, they are more apparent than real. Thus we do not put ourselves
in the place of the rich or great when we become fond of them; even when our affection is real,
we only appropriate to ourselves a part of their welfare. Sometimes we love the rich man in
the midst of misfortunes; but so long as he prospers he has no real friend, except the man
who is not deceived by appearances, who pities rather than envies him in spite of his prosperity.

The happiness belonging to certain states of life appeals to us; take, for instance, the life
of a shepherd in the country. The charm of seeing these good people so happy is not poisoned
by envy; we are genuinely interested in them. Why is this? Because we feel we can descend into
this state of peace and innocence and enjoy the same happiness; it is an alternative which
only calls up pleasant thoughts, so long as the wish is as good as the deed. It is always pleasant
to examine our stores, to contemplate our own wealth, even when we do not mean to spend it.

From this we see that to incline a young man to humanity you must not make him admire the brilliant
lot of others; you must show him life in its sorrowful aspects and arouse his fears. Thus it
becomes clear that he must force his own way to happiness, without interfering with the happiness
of others.

SECOND MAXIM.--We never pity another's woes unless we know we may suffer in like manner ourselves.

     "Non ignara mali, miseris succurrere disco."--Virgil.

I know nothing go fine, so full of meaning, so touching, so true as these words.

Why have kings no pity on their people? Because they never expect to be ordinary men. Why are
the rich so hard on the poor? Because they have no fear of becoming poor. Why do the nobles
look down upon the people? Because a nobleman will never be one of the lower classes.  Why
are the Turks generally kinder and more hospitable than ourselves? Because, under their wholly
arbitrary system of government, the rank and wealth of individuals are always uncertain and
precarious, so that they do not regard poverty and degradation as conditions with which they
have no concern; to-morrow, any one may himself be in the same position as those on whom he
bestows alms to-day. This thought, which occurs again and again in eastern romances, lends
them a certain tenderness which is not to be found in our pretentious and harsh morality.

So do not train your pupil to look down from the height of his glory upon the sufferings of
the unfortunate, the labours of the wretched, and do not hope to teach him to pity them while
he considers them as far removed from himself. Make him thoroughly aware of the fact that the
fate of these unhappy persons may one day be his own, that his feet are standing on the edge
of the abyss, into which he may be plunged at any moment by a thousand unexpected irresistible
misfortunes. Teach him to put no trust in birth, health, or riches; show him all the changes
of fortune; find him examples--there are only too many of them--in which men of higher rank
than himself have sunk below the condition of these wretched ones. Whether by their own fault
or another's is for the present no concern of ours; does he indeed know the meaning of the
word fault? Never interfere with the order in which he acquires knowledge, and teach him only
through the means within his reach; it needs no great learning to perceive that all the prudence
of mankind cannot make certain whether he will be alive or dead in an hour's time, whether
before nightfall he will not be grinding his teeth in the pangs of nephritis, whether a month
hence he will be rich or poor, whether in a year's time he may not be rowing an Algerian galley
under the lash of the slave-driver.  Above all do not teach him this, like his catechism, in
cold blood; let him see and feel the calamities which overtake men; surprise and startle his
imagination with the perils which lurk continually about a man's path; let him see the pitfalls
all about him, and when he hears you speak of them, let him cling more closely to you for fear
lest he should fall. "You will make him timid and cowardly," do you say? We shall see; let
us make him kindly to begin with, that is what matters most.

THIRD MAXIM.--The pity we feel for others is proportionate, not to the amount of the evil,
but to the feelings we attribute to the sufferers.

We only pity the wretched so far as we think they feel the need of pity. The bodily effect
of our sufferings is less than one would suppose; it is memory that prolongs the pain, imagination
which projects it into the future, and makes us really to be pitied. This is, I think, one
of the reasons why we are more callous to the sufferings of animals than of men, although a
fellow-feeling ought to make us identify ourselves equally with either. We scarcely pity the
cart-horse in his shed, for we do not suppose that while he is eating his hay he is thinking
of the blows he has received and the labours in store for him. Neither do we pity the sheep
grazing in the field, though we know it is about to be slaughtered, for we believe it knows
nothing of the fate in store for it. In this way we also become callous to the fate of our
fellow-men, and the rich console themselves for the harm done by them to the poor, by the assumption
that the poor are too stupid to feel. I usually judge of the value any one puts on the welfare
of his fellow-creatures by what he seems to think of them. We naturally think lightly of the
happiness of those we despise. It need not surprise you that politicians speak so scornfully
of the people, and philosophers profess to think mankind so wicked.

The people are mankind; those who do not belong to the people are so few in number that they
are not worth counting. Man is the same in every station of life; if that be so, those ranks
to which most men belong deserve most honour. All distinctions of rank fade away before the
eyes of a thoughtful person; he sees the same passions, the same feelings in the noble and
the guttersnipe; there is merely a slight difference in speech, and more or less artificiality
of tone; and if there is indeed any essential difference between them, the disadvantage is
all on the side of those who are more sophisticated. The people show themselves as they are,
and they are not attractive; but the fashionable world is compelled to adopt a disguise; we
should be horrified if we saw it as it really is.

There is, so our wiseacres tell us, the same amount of happiness and sorrow in every station.
This saying is as deadly in its effects as it is incapable of proof; if all are equally happy
why should I trouble myself about any one? Let every one stay where he is; leave the slave
to be ill-treated, the sick man to suffer, and the wretched to perish; they have nothing to
gain by any change in their condition. You enumerate the sorrows of the rich, and show the
vanity of his empty pleasures; what barefaced sophistry! The rich man's sufferings do not come
from his position, but from himself alone when he abuses it. He is not to be pitied were he
indeed more miserable than the poor, for his ills are of his own making, and he could be happy
if he chose. But the sufferings of the poor man come from external things, from the hardships
fate has imposed upon him.  No amount of habit can accustom him to the bodily ills of fatigue,
exhaustion, and hunger. Neither head nor heart can serve to free him from the sufferings of
his condition. How is Epictetus the better for knowing beforehand that his master will break
his leg for him; does he do it any the less? He has to endure not only the pain itself but
the pains of anticipation. If the people were as wise as we assume them to be stupid, how could
they be other than they are?  Observe persons of this class; you will see that, with a different
way of speaking, they have as much intelligence and more common-sense than yourself. Have respect
then for your species; remember that it consists essentially of the people, that if all the
kings and all the philosophers were removed they would scarcely be missed, and things would
go on none the worse. In a word, teach your pupil to love all men, even those who fail to appreciate
him; act in such way that he is not a member of any class, but takes his place in all alike:
speak in his hearing of the human race with tenderness, and even with pity, but never with
scorn. You are a man; do not dishonour mankind.

It is by these ways and others like them--how different from the beaten paths--that we must
reach the heart of the young adolescent And stimulate in him the first impulses of nature;
we must develop that heart and open its doors to his fellow-creatures, and there must be as
little self-interest as possible mixed up with these impulses; above all, no vanity, no emulation,
no boasting, none of those sentiments which force us to compare ourselves with others; for
such comparisons are never made without arousing some measure of hatred against those who dispute
our claim to the first place, were it only in our own estimation. Then we must be either blind
or angry, a bad man or a fool; let us try to avoid this dilemma. Sooner or later these dangerous
passions will appear, so you tell me, in spite of us. I do not deny it. There is a time and
place for everything; I am only saying that we should not help to arouse these passions.

This is the spirit of the method to be laid down. In this case examples and illustrations are
useless, for here we find the beginning of the countless differences of character, and every
example I gave would possibly apply to only one case in a hundred thousand. It is at this age
that the clever teacher begins his real business, as a student and a philosopher who knows
how to probe the heart and strives to guide it aright. While the young man has not learnt to
pretend, while he does not even know the meaning of pretence, you see by his look, his manner,
his gestures, the impression he has received from any object presented to him; you read in
his countenance every impulse of his heart; by watching his expression you learn to protect
his impulses and actually to control them.

It has been commonly observed that blood, wounds, cries and groans, the preparations for painful
operations, and everything which directs the senses towards things connected with suffering,
are usually the first to make an impression on all men. The idea of destruction, a more complex
matter, does not have so great an effect; the thought of death affects us later and less forcibly,
for no one knows from his own experience what it is to die; you must have seen corpses to feel
the agonies of the dying. But when once this idea is established in the mind, there is no spectacle
more dreadful in our eyes, whether because of the idea of complete destruction which it arouses
through our senses, or because we know that this moment must come for each one of us and we
feel ourselves all the more keenly affected by a situation from which we know there is no escape.

These various impressions differ in manner and in degree, according to the individual character
of each one of us and his former habits, but they are universal and no one is altogether free
from them. There are other impressions less universal and of a later growth, impressions most
suited to sensitive souls, such impressions as we receive from moral suffering, inward grief,
the sufferings of the mind, depression, and sadness. There are men who can be touched by nothing
but groans and tears; the suppressed sobs of a heart labouring under sorrow would never win
a sigh; the sight of a downcast visage, a pale and gloomy countenance, eyes which can weep
no longer, would never draw a tear from them. The sufferings of the mind are as nothing to
them; they weigh them, their own mind feels nothing; expect nothing from such persons but inflexible
severity, harshness, cruelty. They may be just and upright, but not merciful, generous, or
pitiful. They may, I say, be just, if a man can indeed be just without being merciful.

But do not be in a hurry to judge young people by this standard, more especially those who
have been educated rightly, who have no idea of the moral sufferings they have never had to
endure; for once again they can only pity the ills they know, and this apparent insensibility
is soon transformed into pity when they begin to feel that there are in human life a thousand
ills of which they know nothing. As for Emile, if in childhood he was distinguished by simplicity
and good sense, in his youth he will show a warm and tender heart; for the reality of the feelings
depends to a great extent on the accuracy of the ideas.

But why call him hither? More than one reader will reproach me no doubt for departing from
my first intention and forgetting the lasting happiness I promised my pupil. The sorrowful,
the dying, such sights of pain and woe, what happiness, what delight is this for a young heart
on the threshold of life? His gloomy tutor, who proposed to give him such a pleasant education,
only introduces him to life that he may suffer. This is what they will say, but what care I?
I promised to make him happy, not to make him seem happy. Am I to blame if, deceived as usual
by the outward appearances, you take them for the reality?

Let us take two young men at the close of their early education, and let them enter the world
by opposite doors. The one mounts at once to Olympus, and moves in the smartest society; he
is taken to court, he is presented in the houses of the great, of the rich, of the pretty women.
I assume that he is everywhere made much of, and I do not regard too closely the effect of
this reception on his reason; I assume it can stand it. Pleasures fly before him, every day
provides him with fresh amusements; he flings himself into everything with an eagerness which
carries you away. You find him busy, eager, and curious; his first wonder makes a great impression
on you; you think him happy; but behold the state of his heart; you think he is rejoicing,
I think he suffers.

What does he see when first he opens his eyes? all sorts of so-called pleasures, hitherto unknown.
Most of these pleasures are only for a moment within his reach, and seem to show themselves
only to inspire regret for their loss. Does he wander through a palace; you see by his uneasy
curiosity that he is asking why his father's house is not like it. Every question shows you
that he is comparing himself all the time with the owner of this grand place. And all the mortification
arising from this comparison at once revolts and stimulates his vanity. If he meets a young
man better dressed than himself, I find him secretly complaining of his parents' meanness.
If he is better dressed than another, he suffers because the latter is his superior in birth
or in intellect, and all his gold lace is put to shame by a plain cloth coat. Does he shine
unrivalled in some assembly, does he stand on tiptoe that they may see him better, who is there
who does not secretly desire to humble the pride and vanity of the young fop? Everybody is
in league against him; the disquieting glances of a solemn man, the biting phrases of some
satirical person, do not fail to reach him, and if it were only one man who despised him, the
scorn of that one would poison in a moment the applause of the rest.

Let us grant him everything, let us not grudge him charm and worth; let him be well-made, witty,
and attractive; the women will run after him; but by pursuing him before he is in love with
them, they will inspire rage rather than love; he will have successes, but neither rapture
nor passion to enjoy them. As his desires are always anticipated; they never have time to spring
up among his pleasures, so he only feels the tedium of restraint. Even before he knows it he
is disgusted and satiated with the sex formed to be the delight of his own; if he continues
its pursuit it is only through vanity, and even should he really be devoted to women, he will
not be the only brilliant, the only attractive young man, nor will he always find his mistresses
prodigies of fidelity.

I say nothing of the vexation, the deceit, the crimes, and the remorse of all kinds, inseparable
from such a life. We know that experience of the world disgusts us with it; I am speaking only
of the drawbacks belonging to youthful illusions.

Hitherto the young man has lived in the bosom of his family and his friends, and has been the
sole object of their care; what a change to enter all at once into a region where he counts
for so little; to find himself plunged into another sphere, he who has been so long the centre
of his own. What insults, what humiliation, must he endure, before he loses among strangers
the ideas of his own importance which have been formed and nourished among his own people!
As a child everything gave way to him, everybody flocked to him; as a young man he must give
place to every one, or if he preserves ever so little of his former airs, what harsh lessons
will bring him to himself! Accustomed to get everything he wants without any difficulty, his
wants are many, and he feels continual privations. He is tempted by everything that flatters
him; what others have, he must have too; he covets everything, he envies every one, he would
always be master. He is devoured by vanity, his young heart is enflamed by unbridled passions,
jealousy and hatred among the rest; all these violent passions burst out at once; their sting
rankles in him in the busy world, they return with him at night, he comes back dissatisfied
with himself, with others; he falls asleep among a thousand foolish schemes disturbed by a
thousand fancies, and his pride shows him even in his dreams those fancied pleasures; he is
tormented by a desire which will never be satisfied. So much for your pupil; let us turn to mine.

If the first thing to make an impression on him is something sorrowful his first return to
himself is a feeling of pleasure. When he sees how many ills he has escaped he thinks he is
happier than he fancied. He shares the suffering of his fellow-creatures, but he shares it
of his own free will and finds pleasure in it. He enjoys at once the pity he feels for their
woes and the joy of being exempt from them; he feels in himself that state of vigour which
projects us beyond ourselves, and bids us carry elsewhere the superfluous activity of our well-being.
To pity another's woes we must indeed know them, but we need not feel them. When we have suffered,
when we are in fear of suffering, we pity those who suffer; but when we suffer ourselves, we
pity none but ourselves. But if all of us, being subject ourselves to the ills of life, only
bestow upon others the sensibility we do not actually require for ourselves, it follows that
pity must be a very pleasant feeling, since it speaks on our behalf; and, on the other hand,
a hard-hearted man is always unhappy, since the state of his heart leaves him no superfluous
sensibility to bestow on the sufferings of others.

We are too apt to judge of happiness by appearances; we suppose it is to be found in the most
unlikely places, we seek for it where it cannot possibly be; mirth is a very doubtful indication
of its presence. A merry man is often a wretch who is trying to deceive others and distract
himself. The men who are jovial, friendly, and contented at their club are almost always gloomy
grumblers at home, and their servants have to pay for the amusement they give among their friends.
True contentment is neither merry nor noisy; we are jealous of so sweet a sentiment, when we
enjoy it we think about it, we delight in it for fear it should escape us. A really happy man
says little and laughs little; he hugs his happiness, so to speak, to his heart. Noisy games,
violent delight, conceal the disappointment of satiety. But melancholy is the friend of pleasure;
tears and pity attend our sweetest enjoyment, and great joys call for tears rather than laughter.

If at first the number and variety of our amusements seem to contribute to our happiness, if
at first the even tenor of a quiet life seems tedious, when we look at it more closely we discover
that the pleasantest habit of mind consists in a moderate enjoyment which leaves little scope
for desire and aversion. The unrest of passion causes curiosity and fickleness; the emptiness
of noisy pleasures causes weariness. We never weary of our state when we know none more delightful.
Savages suffer less than other men from curiosity and from tedium; everything is the same to
them--themselves, not their possessions--and they are never weary.

The man of the world almost always wears a mask. He is scarcely ever himself and is almost
a stranger to himself; he is ill at ease when he is forced into his own company. Not what he
is, but what he seems, is all he cares for.

I cannot help picturing in the countenance of the young man I have just spoken of an indefinable
but unpleasant impertinence, smoothness, and affectation, which is repulsive to a plain man,
and in the countenance of my own pupil a simple and interesting expression which indicates
the real contentment and the calm of his mind; an expression which inspires respect and confidence,
and seems only to await the establishment of friendly relations to bestow his own confidence
in return. It is thought that the expression is merely the development of certain features
designed by nature. For my own part I think that over and above this development a man's face
is shaped, all unconsciously, by the frequent and habitual influence of certain affections
of the heart. These affections are shown on the face, there is nothing more certain; and when
they become habitual, they must surely leave lasting traces. This is why I think the expression
shows the character, and that we can sometimes read one another without seeking mysterious
explanations in powers we do not possess.

A child has only two distinct feelings, joy and sorrow; he laughs or he cries; he knows no
middle course, and he is constantly passing from one extreme to the other. On account of these
perpetual changes there is no lasting impression on the face, and no expression; but when the
child is older and more sensitive, his feelings are keener or more permanent, and these deeper
impressions leave traces more difficult to erase; and the habitual state of the feelings has
an effect on the features which in course of time becomes ineffaceable. Still it is not uncommon
to meet with men whose expression varies with their age. I have met with several, and I have
always found that those whom I could observe and follow had also changed their habitual temper.
This one observation thoroughly confirmed would seem to me decisive, and it is not out of place
in a treatise on education, where it is a matter of importance, that we should learn to judge
the feelings of the heart by external signs.

I do not know whether my young man will be any the less amiable for not having learnt to copy
conventional manners and to feign sentiments which are not his own; that does not concern me
at present, I only know he will be more affectionate; and I find it difficult to believe that
he, who cares for nobody but himself, can so far disguise his true feelings as to please as
readily as he who finds fresh happiness for himself in his affection for others. But with regard
to this feeling of happiness, I think I have said enough already for the guidance of any sensible
reader, and to show that I have not contradicted myself.

I return to my system, and I say, when the critical age approaches, present to young people
spectacles which restrain rather than excite them; put off their dawning imagination with objects
which, far from inflaming their senses, put a check to their activity. Remove them from great
cities, where the flaunting attire and the boldness of the women hasten and anticipate the
teaching of nature, where everything presents to their view pleasures of which they should
know nothing till they are of an age to choose for themselves. Bring them back to their early
home, where rural simplicity allows the passions of their age to develop more slowly; or if
their taste for the arts keeps them in town, guard them by means of this very taste from a
dangerous idleness. Choose carefully their company, their occupations, and their pleasures;
show them nothing but modest and pathetic pictures which are touching but not seductive, and
nourish their sensibility without stimulating their senses. Remember also, that the danger
of excess is not confined to any one place, and that immoderate passions always do irreparable
damage. You need not make your pupil a sick-nurse or a Brother of Pity; you need not distress
him by the perpetual sight of pain and suffering; you need not take him from one hospital to
another, from the gallows to the prison. He must be softened, not hardened, by the sight of
human misery. When we have seen a sight it ceases to impress us, use is second nature, what
is always before our eyes no longer appeals to the imagination, and it is only through the
imagination that we can feel the sorrows of others; this is why priests and doctors who are
always beholding death and suffering become so hardened. Let your pupil therefore know something
of the lot of man and the woes of his fellow-creatures, but let him not see them too often.
A single thing, carefully selected and shown at the right time, will fill him with pity and
set him thinking for a month. His opinion about anything depends not so much on what he sees,
but on how it reacts on himself; and his lasting impression of any object depends less on the
object itself than on the point of view from which he regards it. Thus by a sparing use of
examples, lessons, and pictures, you may blunt the sting of sense and delay nature while following
her own lead.

As he acquires knowledge, choose what ideas he shall attach to it; as his passions awake, select
scenes calculated to repress them. A veteran, as distinguished for his character as for his
courage, once told me that in early youth his father, a sensible man but extremely pious, observed
that through his growing sensibility he was attracted by women, and spared no pains to restrain
him; but at last when, in spite of all his care, his son was about to escape from his control,
he decided to take him to a hospital, and, without telling him what to expect, he introduced
him into a room where a number of wretched creatures were expiating, under a terrible treatment,
the vices which had brought them into this plight. This hideous and revolting spectacle sickened
the young man. "Miserable libertine," said his father vehemently, "begone; follow your vile
tastes; you will soon be only too glad to be admitted to this ward, and a victim to the most
shameful sufferings, you will compel your father to thank God when you are dead."

These few words, together with the striking spectacle he beheld, made an impression on the
young man which could never be effaced. Compelled by his profession to pass his youth in garrison,
he preferred to face all the jests of his comrades rather than to share their evil ways. "I
have been a man," he said to me, "I have had my weaknesses, but even to the present day the
sight of a harlot inspires me with horror." Say little to your pupil, but choose time, place,
and people; then rely on concrete examples for your teaching, and be sure it will take effect.

The way childhood is spent is no great matter; the evil which may find its way is not irremediable,
and the good which may spring up might come later. But it is not so in those early years when
a youth really begins to live. This time is never long enough for what there is to be done,
and its importance demands unceasing attention; this is why I lay so much stress on the art
of prolonging it. One of the best rules of good farming is to keep things back as much as possible.
Let your progress also be slow and sure; prevent the youth from becoming a man all at once.
While the body is growing the spirits destined to give vigour to the blood and strength to
the muscles are in process of formation and elaboration. If you turn them into another channel,
and permit that strength which should have gone to the perfecting of one person to go to the
making of another, both remain in a state of weakness and the work of nature is unfinished.
The workings of the mind, in their turn, are affected by this change, and the mind, as sickly
as the body, functions languidly and feebly. Length and strength of limb are not the same thing
as courage or genius, and I grant that strength of mind does not always accompany strength
of body, when the means of connection between the two are otherwise faulty. But however well
planned they may be, they will always work feebly if for motive power they depend upon an exhausted,
impoverished supply of blood, deprived of the substance which gives strength and elasticity
to all the springs of the machinery. There is generally more vigour of mind to be found among
men whose early years have been preserved from precocious vice, than among those whose evil
living has begun at the earliest opportunity; and this is no doubt the reason why nations whose
morals are pure are generally superior in sense and courage to those whose morals are bad.
The latter shine only through I know not what small and trifling qualities, which they call
wit, sagacity, cunning; but those great and noble features of goodness and reason, by which
a man is distinguished and honoured through good deeds, virtues, really useful efforts, are
scarcely to be found except among the nations whose morals are pure.

Teachers complain that the energy of this age makes their pupils unruly; I see that it is so,
but are not they themselves to blame? When once they have let this energy flow through the
channel of the senses, do they not know that they cannot change its course? Will the long and
dreary sermons of the pedant efface from the mind of his scholar the thoughts of pleasure when
once they have found an entrance; will they banish from his heart the desires by which it is
tormented; will they chill the heat of a passion whose meaning the scholar realises? Will not
the pupil be roused to anger by the obstacles opposed to the only kind of happiness of which
he has any notion? And in the harsh law imposed upon him before he can understand it, what
will he see but the caprice and hatred of a man who is trying to torment him? Is it strange
that he rebels and hates you too?

I know very well that if one is easy-going one may be tolerated, and one may keep up a show
of authority. But I fail to see the use of an authority over the pupil which is only maintained
by fomenting the vices it ought to repress; it is like attempting to soothe a fiery steed by
making it leap over a precipice.

Far from being a hindrance to education, this enthusiasm of adolescence is its crown and coping-stone;
this it is that gives you a hold on the youth's heart when he is no longer weaker than you.
His first affections are the reins by which you control his movements; he was free, and now
I behold him in your power. So long as he loved nothing, he was independent of everything but
himself and his own necessities; as soon as he loves, he is dependent on his affections. Thus
the first ties which unite him to his species are already formed. When you direct his increasing
sensibility in this direction, do not expect that it will at once include all men, and that
the word "mankind" will have any meaning for him. Not so; this sensibility will at first confine
itself to those like himself, and these will not be strangers to him, but those he knows, those
whom habit has made dear to him or necessary to him, those who are evidently thinking and feeling
as he does, those whom he perceives to be exposed to the pains he has endured, those who enjoy
the pleasures he has enjoyed; in a word, those who are so like himself that he is the more
disposed to self-love. It is only after long training, after much consideration as to his own
feelings and the feelings he observes in others, that he will be able to generalise his individual
notions under the abstract idea of humanity, and add to his individual affections those which
may identify him with the race.

When he becomes capable of affection, he becomes aware of the affection of others, [Footnote:
Affection may be unrequited; not so friendship. Friendship is a bargain, a contract like any
other; though a bargain more sacred than the rest. The word "friend" has no other correlation.
Any man who is not the friend of his friend is undoubtedly a rascal; for one can only obtain
friendship by giving it, or pretending to give it.] and he is on the lookout for the signs
of that affection. Do you not see how you will acquire a fresh hold on him? What bands have
you bound about his heart while he was yet unaware of them! What will he feel, when he beholds
himself and sees what you have done for him; when he can compare himself with other youths,
and other tutors with you! I say, "When he sees it," but beware lest you tell him of it; if
you tell him he will not perceive it. If you claim his obedience in return for the care bestowed
upon him, he will think you have over-reached him; he will see that while you profess to have
cared for him without reward, you meant to saddle him with a debt and to bind him to a bargain
which he never made. In vain you will add that what you demand is for his own good; you demand
it, and you demand it in virtue of what you have done without his consent. When a man down
on his luck accepts the shilling which the sergeant professes to give him, and finds he has
enlisted without knowing what he was about, you protest against the injustice; is it not still
more unjust to demand from your pupil the price of care which he has not even accepted!

Ingratitude would be rarer if kindness were less often the investment of a usurer. We love
those who have done us a kindness; what a natural feeling! Ingratitude is not to be found in
the heart of man, but self-interest is there; those who are ungrateful for benefits received
are fewer than those who do a kindness for their own ends. If you sell me your gifts, I will
haggle over the price; but if you pretend to give, in order to sell later on at your own price,
you are guilty of fraud; it is the free gift which is beyond price. The heart is a law to itself;
if you try to bind it, you lose it; give it its liberty, and you make it your own.

When the fisherman baits his line, the fish come round him without suspicion; but when they
are caught on the hook concealed in the bait, they feel the line tighten and they try to escape.
Is the fisherman a benefactor? Is the fish ungrateful? Do we find a man forgotten by his benefactor,
unmindful of that benefactor? On the contrary, he delights to speak of him, he cannot think
of him without emotion; if he gets a chance of showing him, by some unexpected service, that
he remembers what he did for him, how delighted he is to satisfy his gratitude; what a pleasure
it is to earn the gratitude of his benefactor. How delightful to say, "It is my turn now."
This is indeed the teaching of nature; a good deed never caused ingratitude.

If therefore gratitude is a natural feeling, and you do not destroy its effects by your blunders,
be sure your pupil, as he begins to understand the value of your care for him, will be grateful
for it, provided you have not put a price upon it; and this will give you an authority over
his heart which nothing can overthrow. But beware of losing this advantage before it is really
yours, beware of insisting on your own importance. Boast of your services and they become intolerable;
forget them and they will not be forgotten. Until the time comes to treat him as a man let
there be no question of his duty to you, but his duty to himself. Let him have his freedom
if you would make him docile; hide yourself so that he may seek you; raise his heart to the
noble sentiment of gratitude by only speaking of his own interest. Until he was able to understand
I would not have him told that what was done was for his good; he would only have understood
such words to mean that you were dependent on him and he would merely have made you his servant.
But now that he is beginning to feel what love is, he also knows what a tender affection may
bind a man to what he loves; and in the zeal which keeps you busy on his account, he now sees
not the bonds of a slave, but the affection of a friend. Now there is nothing which carries
so much weight with the human heart as the voice of friendship recognised as such, for we know
that it never speaks but for our good. We may think our friend is mistaken, but we never believe
he is deceiving us. We may reject his advice now and then, but we never scorn it.

We have reached the moral order at last; we have just taken the second step towards manhood.
If this were the place for it, I would try to show how the first impulses of the heart give
rise to the first stirrings of conscience, and how from the feelings of love and hatred spring
the first notions of good and evil. I would show that justice and kindness are no mere abstract
terms, no mere moral conceptions framed by the understanding, but true affections of the heart
enlightened by reason, the natural outcome of our primitive affections; that by reason alone,
unaided by conscience, we cannot establish any natural law, and that all natural right is a
vain dream if it does not rest upon some instinctive need of the human heart. [Footnote: The
precept "Do unto others as you would have them do unto you" has no true foundation but that
of conscience and feeling; for what valid reason is there why I, being myself, should do what
I would do if I were some one else, especially when I am morally certain I never shall find
myself in exactly the same case; and who will answer for it that if I faithfully follow out
this maxim, I shall get others to follow it with regard to me? The wicked takes advantage both
of the uprightness of the just and of his own injustice; he will gladly have everybody just
but himself. This bargain, whatever you may say, is not greatly to the advantage of the just.
But if the enthusiasm of an overflowing heart identifies me with my fellow-creature, if I feel,
so to speak, that I will not let him suffer lest I should suffer too, I care for him because
I care for myself, and the reason of the precept is found in nature herself, which inspires
me with the desire for my own welfare wherever I may be. From this I conclude that it is false
to say that the precepts of natural law are based on reason only; they have a firmer and more
solid foundation. The love of others springing from self-love, is the source of human justice.
The whole of morality is summed up in the gospel in this summary of the law.] But I do not
think it is my business at present to prepare treatises on metaphysics and morals, nor courses
of study of any kind whatsoever; it is enough if I indicate the order and development of our
feelings and our knowledge in relation to our growth. Others will perhaps work out what I have
here merely indicated.

Hitherto my Emile has thought only of himself, so his first glance at his equals leads him
to compare himself with them; and the first feeling excited by this comparison is the desire
to be first. It is here that self-love is transformed into selfishness, and this is the starting
point of all the passions which spring from selfishness. But to determine whether the passions
by which his life will be governed shall be humane and gentle or harsh and cruel, whether they
shall be the passions of benevolence and pity or those of envy and covetousness, we must know
what he believes his place among men to be, and what sort of obstacles he expects to have to
overcome in order to attain to the position he seeks.

To guide him in this inquiry, after we have shown him men by means of the accidents common
to the species, we must now show him them by means of their differences. This is the time for
estimating inequality natural and civil, and for the scheme of the whole social order.

Society must be studied in the individual and the individual in society; those who desire to
treat politics and morals apart from one another will never understand either. By confining
ourselves at first to the primitive relations, we see how men should be influenced by them
and what passions should spring from them; we see that it is in proportion to the development
of these passions that a man's relations with others expand or contract. It is not so much
strength of arm as moderation of spirit which makes men free and independent. The man whose
wants are few is dependent on but few people, but those who constantly confound our vain desires
with our bodily needs, those who have made these needs the basis of human society, are continually
mistaking effects for causes, and they have only confused themselves by their own reasoning.

Since it is impossible in the state of nature that the difference between man and man should
be great enough to make one dependent on another, there is in fact in this state of nature
an actual and indestructible equality. In the civil state there is a vain and chimerical equality
of right; the means intended for its maintenance, themselves serve to destroy it; and the power
of the community, added to the power of the strongest for the oppression of the weak, disturbs
the sort of equilibrium which nature has established between them. [Footnote: The universal
spirit of the laws of every country is always to take the part of the strong against the weak,
and the part of him who has against him who has not; this defect is inevitable, and there is
no exception to it.] From this first contradiction spring all the other contradictions between
the real and the apparent, which are to be found in the civil order. The many will always be
sacrificed to the few, the common weal to private interest; those specious words--justice and
subordination--will always serve as the tools of violence and the weapons of injustice; hence
it follows that the higher classes which claim to be useful to the rest are really only seeking
their own welfare at the expense of others; from this we may judge how much consideration is
due to them according to right and justice. It remains to be seen if the rank to which they
have attained is more favourable to their own happiness to know what opinion each one of us
should form with regard to his own lot. This is the study with which we are now concerned;
but to do it thoroughly we must begin with a knowledge of the human heart.

If it were only a question of showing young people man in his mask, there would be no need
to point him out, and he would always be before their eyes; but since the mask is not the man,
and since they must not be led away by its specious appearance, when you paint men for your
scholar, paint them as they are, not that he may hate them, but that he may pity them and have
no wish to be like them. In my opinion that is the most reasonable view a man can hold with
regard to his fellow-men.

With this object in view we must take the opposite way from that hitherto followed, and instruct
the youth rather through the experience of others than through his own. If men deceive him
he will hate them; but, if, while they treat him with respect, he sees them deceiving each
other, he will pity them. "The spectacle of the world," said Pythagoras, "is like the Olympic
games; some are buying and selling and think only of their gains; others take an active part
and strive for glory; others, and these not the worst, are content to be lookers-on."

I would have you so choose the company of a youth that he should think well of those among
whom he lives, and I would have you so teach him to know the world that he should think ill
of all that takes place in it. Let him know that man is by nature good, let him feel it, let
him judge his neighbour by himself; but let him see how men are depraved and perverted by society;
let him find the source of all their vices in their preconceived opinions; let him be disposed
to respect the individual, but to despise the multitude; let him see that all men wear almost
the same mask, but let him also know that some faces are fairer than the mask that conceals them.

It must be admitted that this method has its drawbacks, and it is not easy to carry it out;
for if he becomes too soon engrossed in watching other people, if you train him to mark too
closely the actions of others, you will make him spiteful and satirical, quick and decided
in his judgments of others; he will find a hateful pleasure in seeking bad motives, and will
fail to see the good even in that which is really good. He will, at least, get used to the
sight of vice, he will behold the wicked without horror, just as we get used to seeing the
wretched without pity. Soon the perversity of mankind will be not so much a warning as an excuse;
he will say, "Man is made so," and he will have no wish to be different from the rest.

But if you wish to teach him theoretically to make him acquainted, not only with the heart
of man, but also with the application of the external causes which turn our inclinations into
vices; when you thus transport him all at once from the objects of sense to the objects of
reason, you employ a system of metaphysics which he is not in a position to understand; you
fall back into the error, so carefully avoided hitherto, of giving him lessons which are like
lessons, of substituting in his mind the experience and the authority of the master for his
own experience and the development of his own reason.

To remove these two obstacles at once, and to bring the human heart within his reach without
risk of spoiling his own, I would show him men from afar, in other times or in other places,
so that he may behold the scene but cannot take part in it. This is the time for history; with
its help he will read the hearts of men without any lessons in philosophy; with its help he
will view them as a mere spectator, dispassionate and without prejudice; he will view them
as their judge, not as their accomplice or their accuser.

To know men you must behold their actions. In society we hear them talk; they show their words
and hide their deeds; but in history the veil is drawn aside, and they are judged by their
deeds. Their sayings even help us to understand them; for comparing what they say and what
they do, we see not only what they are but what they would appear; the more they disguise themselves
the more thoroughly they stand revealed.

Unluckily this study has its dangers, its drawbacks of several kinds. It is difficult to adopt
a point of view which will enable one to judge one's fellow-creatures fairly. It is one of
the chief defects of history to paint men's evil deeds rather than their good ones; it is revolutions
and catastrophes that make history interesting; so long as a nation grows and prospers quietly
in the tranquillity of a peaceful government, history says nothing; she only begins to speak
of nations when, no longer able to be self-sufficing, they interfere with their neighbours'
business, or allow their neighbours to interfere with their own; history only makes them famous
when they are on the downward path; all our histories begin where they ought to end. We have
very accurate accounts of declining nations; what we lack is the history of those nations which
are multiplying; they are so happy and so good that history has nothing to tell us of them;
and we see indeed in our own times that the most successful governments are least talked of.
We only hear what is bad; the good is scarcely mentioned. Only the wicked become famous, the
good are forgotten or laughed to scorn, and thus history, like philosophy, is for ever slandering
mankind.

Moreover, it is inevitable that the facts described in history should not give an exact picture
of what really happened; they are transformed in the brain of the historian, they are moulded
by his interests and coloured by his prejudices. Who can place the reader precisely in a position
to see the event as it really happened? Ignorance or partiality disguises everything. What
a different impression may be given merely by expanding or contracting the circumstances of
the case without altering a single historical incident. The same object may be seen from several
points of view, and it will hardly seem the same thing, yet there has been no change except
in the eye that beholds it. Do you indeed do honour to truth when what you tell me is a genuine
fact, but you make it appear something quite different? A tree more or less, a rock to the
right or to the left, a cloud of dust raised by the wind, how often have these decided the
result of a battle without any one knowing it?  Does that prevent history from telling you
the cause of defeat or victory with as much assurance as if she had been on the spot? But what
are the facts to me, while I am ignorant of their causes, and what lessons can I draw from
an event, whose true cause is unknown to me? The historian indeed gives me a reason, but he
invents it; and criticism itself, of which we hear so much, is only the art of guessing, the
art of choosing from among several lies, the lie that is most like truth.

Have you ever read Cleopatra or Cassandra or any books of the kind? The author selects some
well-known event, he then adapts it to his purpose, adorns it with details of his own invention,
with people who never existed, with imaginary portraits; thus he piles fiction on fiction to
lend a charm to his story. I see little difference between such romances and your histories,
unless it is that the novelist draws more on his own imagination, while the historian slavishly
copies what another has imagined; I will also admit, if you please, that the novelist has some
moral purpose good or bad, about which the historian scarcely concerns himself.

You will tell me that accuracy in history is of less interest than a true picture of men and
manners; provided the human heart is truly portrayed, it matters little that events should
be accurately recorded; for after all you say, what does it matter to us what happened two
thousand years ago? You are right if the portraits are indeed truly given according to nature;
but if the model is to be found for the most part in the historian's imagination, are you not
falling into the very error you intended to avoid, and surrendering to the authority of the
historian what you would not yield to the authority of the teacher? If my pupil is merely to
see fancy pictures, I would rather draw them myself; they will, at least, be better suited to him.

The worst historians for a youth are those who give their opinions. Facts! Facts! and let him
decide for himself; this is how he will learn to know mankind. If he is always directed by
the opinion of the author, he is only seeing through the eyes of another person, and when those
ayes are no longer at his disposal he can see nothing.

I leave modern history on one side, not only because it has no character and all our people
are alike, but because our historians, wholly taken up with effect, think of nothing but highly
coloured portraits, which often represent nothing. [Footnote: Take, for instance, Guicciardini,
Streda, Solis, Machiavelli, and sometimes even De Thou himself. Vertot is almost the only one
who knows how to describe without giving fancy portraits.] The old historians generally give
fewer portraits and bring more intelligence and common-sense to their judgments; but even among
them there is plenty of scope for choice, and you must not begin with the wisest but with the
simplest. I would not put Polybius or Sallust into the hands of a youth; Tacitus is the author
of the old, young men cannot understand him; you must learn to see in human actions the simplest
features of the heart of man before you try to sound its depths. You must be able to read facts
clearly before you begin to study maxims.  Philosophy in the form of maxims is only fit for
the experienced.  Youth should never deal with the general, all its teaching should deal with
individual instances.

To my mind Thucydides is the true model of historians. He relates facts without giving his
opinion; but he omits no circumstance adapted to make us judge for ourselves. He puts everything
that he relates before his reader; far from interposing between the facts and the readers,
he conceals himself; we seem not to read but to see. Unfortunately he speaks of nothing but
war, and in his stories we only see the least instructive part of the world, that is to say
the battles. The virtues and defects of the Retreat of the Ten Thousand and the Commentaries
of Caesar are almost the same. The kindly Herodotus, without portraits, without maxims, yet
flowing, simple, full of details calculated to delight and interest in the highest degree,
would be perhaps the best historian if these very details did not often degenerate into childish
folly, better adapted to spoil the taste of youth than to form it; we need discretion before
we can read him. I say nothing of Livy, his turn will come; but he is a statesman, a rhetorician,
he is everything which is unsuitable for a youth.

History in general is lacking because it only takes note of striking and clearly marked facts
which may be fixed by names, places, and dates; but the slow evolution of these facts, which
cannot be definitely noted in this way, still remains unknown. We often find in some battle,
lost or won, the ostensible cause of a revolution which was inevitable before this battle took
place. War only makes manifest events already determined by moral causes, which few historians
can perceive.

The philosophic spirit has turned the thoughts of many of the historians of our times in this
direction; but I doubt whether truth has profited by their labours. The rage for systems has
got possession of all alike, no one seeks to see things as they are, but only as they agree
with his system.

Add to all these considerations the fact that history shows us actions rather than men, because
she only seizes men at certain chosen times in full dress; she only portrays the statesman
when he is prepared to be seen; she does not follow him to his home, to his study, among his
family and his friends; she only shows him in state; it is his clothes rather than himself
that she describes.

I would prefer to begin the study of the human heart with reading the lives of individuals;
for then the man hides himself in vain, the historian follows him everywhere; he never gives
him a moment's grace nor any corner where he can escape the piercing eye of the spectator;
and when he thinks he is concealing himself, then it is that the writer shows him up most plainly.

"Those who write lives," says Montaigne, "in so far as they delight more in ideas than in events,
more in that which comes from within than in that which comes from without, these are the writers
I prefer; for this reason Plutarch is in every way the man for me."

It is true that the genius of men in groups or nations is very different from the character
of the individual man, and that we have a very imperfect knowledge of the human heart if we
do not also examine it in crowds; but it is none the less true that to judge of men we must
study the individual man, and that he who had a perfect knowledge of the inclinations of each
individual might foresee all their combined effects in the body of the nation.

We must go back again to the ancients, for the reasons already stated, and also because all
the details common and familiar, but true and characteristic, are banished by modern stylists,
so that men are as much tricked out by our modern authors in their private life as in public.
Propriety, no less strict in literature than in life, no longer permits us to say anything
in public which we might not do in public; and as we may only show the man dressed up for his
part, we never see a man in our books any more than we do on the stage. The lives of kings
may be written a hundred times, but to no purpose; we shall never have another Suetonius.

The excellence of Plutarch consists in these very details which we are no longer permitted
to describe. With inimitable grace he paints the great man in little things; and he is so happy
in the choice of his instances that a word, a smile, a gesture, will often suffice to indicate
the nature of his hero. With a jest Hannibal cheers his frightened soldiers, and leads them
laughing to the battle which will lay Italy at his feet; Agesilaus riding on a stick makes
me love the conqueror of the great king; Caesar passing through a poor village and chatting
with his friends unconsciously betrays the traitor who professed that he only wished to be
Pompey's equal.  Alexander swallows a draught without a word--it is the finest moment in his
life; Aristides writes his own name on the shell and so justifies his title; Philopoemen, his
mantle laid aside, chops firewood in the kitchen of his host. This is the true art of portraiture.
Our disposition does not show itself in our features, nor our character in our great deeds;
it is trifles that show what we really are. What is done in public is either too commonplace
or too artificial, and our modern authors are almost too grand to tell us anything else.

M. de Turenne was undoubtedly one of the greatest men of the last century. They have had the
courage to make his life interesting by the little details which make us know and love him;
but how many details have they felt obliged to omit which might have made us know and love
him better still? I will only quote one which I have on good authority, one which Plutarch
would never have omitted, and one which Ramsai would never have inserted had he been acquainted
with it.

On a hot summer's day Viscount Turenne in a little white vest and nightcap was standing at
the window of his antechamber; one of his men came up and, misled by the dress, took him for
one of the kitchen lads whom he knew. He crept up behind him and smacked him with no light
hand. The man he struck turned round hastily. The valet saw it was his master and trembled
at the sight of his face.  He fell on his knees in desperation. "Sir, I thought it was George."
"Well, even if it was George," exclaimed Turenne rubbing the injured part, "you need not have
struck so hard." You do not dare to say this, you miserable writers! Remain for ever without
humanity and without feeling; steel your hard hearts in your vile propriety, make yourselves
contemptible through your high-mightiness. But as for you, dear youth, when you read this anecdote,
when you are touched by all the kindliness displayed even on the impulse of the moment, read
also the littleness of this great man when it was a question of his name and birth. Remember
it was this very Turenne who always professed to yield precedence to his nephew, so that all
men might see that this child was the head of a royal house. Look on this picture and on that,
love nature, despise popular prejudice, and know the man as he was.

There are few people able to realise what an effect such reading, carefully directed, will
have upon the unspoilt mind of a youth. Weighed down by books from our earliest childhood,
accustomed to read without thinking, what we read strikes us even less, because we already
bear in ourselves the passions and prejudices with which history and the lives of men are filled;
all that they do strikes us as only natural, for we ourselves are unnatural and we judge others
by ourselves. But imagine my Emile, who has been carefully guarded for eighteen years with
the sole object of preserving a right judgment and a healthy heart, imagine him when the curtain
goes up casting his eyes for the first time upon the world's stage; or rather picture him behind
the scenes watching the actors don their costumes, and counting the cords and pulleys which
deceive with their feigned shows the eyes of the spectators. His first surprise will soon give
place to feelings of shame and scorn of his fellow-man; he will be indignant at the sight of
the whole human race deceiving itself and stooping to this childish folly; he will grieve to
see his brothers tearing each other limb from limb for a mere dream, and transforming themselves
into wild beasts because they could not be content to be men.

Given the natural disposition of the pupil, there is no doubt that if the master exercises
any sort of prudence or discretion in his choice of reading, however little he may put him
in the way of reflecting on the subject-matter, this exercise will serve as a course in practical
philosophy, a philosophy better understood and more thoroughly mastered than all the empty
speculations with which the brains of lads are muddled in our schools. After following the
romantic schemes of Pyrrhus, Cineas asks him what real good he would gain by the conquest of
the world, which he can never enjoy without such great sufferings; this only arouses in us
a passing interest as a smart saying; but Emile will think it a very wise thought, one which
had already occurred to himself, and one which he will never forget, because there is no hostile
prejudice in his mind to prevent it sinking in. When he reads more of the life of this madman,
he will find that all his great plans resulted in his death at the hands of a woman, and instead
of admiring this pinchbeck heroism, what will he see in the exploits of this great captain
and the schemes of this great statesman but so many steps towards that unlucky tile which was
to bring life and schemes alike to a shameful death?

All conquerors have not been killed; all usurpers have not failed in their plans; to minds
imbued with vulgar prejudices many of them will seem happy, but he who looks below the surface
and reckons men's happiness by the condition of their hearts will perceive their wretchedness
even in the midst of their successes; he will see them panting after advancement and never
attaining their prize, he will find them like those inexperienced travellers among the Alps,
who think that every height they see is the last, who reach its summit only to find to their
disappointment there are loftier peaks beyond.

Augustus, when he had subdued his fellow-citizens and destroyed his rivals, reigned for forty
years over the greatest empire that ever existed; but all this vast power could not hinder
him from beating his head against the walls, and filling his palace with his groans as he cried
to Varus to restore his slaughtered legions. If he had conquered all his foes what good would
his empty triumphs have done him, when troubles of every kind beset his path, when his life
was threatened by his dearest friends, and when he had to mourn the disgrace or death of all
near and dear to him? The wretched man desired to rule the world and failed to rule his own
household. What was the result of this neglect? He beheld his nephew, his adopted child, his
son-in-law, perish in the flower of youth, his grandson reduced to eat the stuffing of his
mattress to prolong his wretched existence for a few hours; his daughter and his granddaughter,
after they had covered him with infamy, died, the one of hunger and want on a desert island,
the other in prison by the hand of a common archer. He himself, the last survivor of his unhappy
house, found himself compelled by his own wife to acknowledge a monster as his heir. Such was
the fate of the master of the world, so famous for his glory and his good fortune. I cannot
believe that any one of those who admire his glory and fortune would accept them at the same price.

I have taken ambition as my example, but the play of every human passion offers similar lessons
to any one who will study history to make himself wise and good at the expense of those who
went before.  The time is drawing near when the teaching of the life of Anthony will appeal
more forcibly to the youth than the life of Augustus.  Emile will scarcely know where he is
among the many strange sights in his new studies; but he will know beforehand how to avoid
the illusion of passions before they arise, and seeing how in all ages they have blinded men's
eyes, he will be forewarned of the way in which they may one day blind his own should he abandon
himself to them. [Footnote: It is always prejudice which stirs up passion in our heart. He
who only sees what really exists and only values what he knows, rarely becomes angry. The errors
of our judgment produce the warmth of our desires.] These lessons, I know, are unsuited to
him, perhaps at need they may prove scanty and ill-timed; but remember they are not the lessons
I wished to draw from this study.  To begin with, I had quite another end in view; and indeed,
if this purpose is unfulfilled, the teacher will be to blame.

Remember that, as soon as selfishness has developed, the self in its relations to others is
always with us, and the youth never observes others without coming back to himself and comparing
himself with them. From the way young men are taught to study history I see that they are transformed,
so to speak, into the people they behold, that you strive to make a Cicero, a Trajan, or an
Alexander of them, to discourage them when they are themselves again, to make every one regret
that he is merely himself. There are certain advantages in this plan which I do not deny; but,
so far as Emile is concerned, should it happen at any time when he is making these comparisons
that he wishes to be any one but himself--were it Socrates or Cato--I have failed entirely;
he who begins to regard himself as a stranger will soon forget himself altogether.

It is not philosophers who know most about men; they only view them through the preconceived
ideas of philosophy, and I know no one so prejudiced as philosophers. A savage would judge
us more sanely. The philosopher is aware of his own vices, he is indignant at ours, and he
says to himself, "We are all bad alike;" the savage beholds us unmoved and says, "You are mad."
He is right, for no one does evil for evil's sake. My pupil is that savage, with this difference:
Emile has thought more, he has compared ideas, seen our errors at close quarters, he is more
on his guard against himself, and only judges of what he knows.

It is our own passions that excite us against the passions of others; it is our self-interest
which makes us hate the wicked; if they did us no harm we should pity rather than hate them.
We should readily forgive their vices if we could perceive how their own heart punishes those
vices. We are aware of the offence, but we do not see the punishment; the advantages are plain,
the penalty is hidden. The man who thinks he is enjoying the fruits of his vices is no less
tormented by them than if they had not been successful; the object is different, the anxiety
is the same; in vain he displays his good fortune and hides his heart; in spite of himself
his conduct betrays him; but to discern this, our own heart must be utterly unlike his.

We are led astray by those passions which we share; we are disgusted by those that militate
against our own interests; and with a want of logic due to these very passions, we blame in
others what we fain would imitate. Aversion and self-deception are inevitable when we are forced
to endure at another's hands what we ourselves would do in his place.

What then is required for the proper study of men? A great wish to know men, great impartiality
of judgment, a heart sufficiently sensitive to understand every human passion, and calm enough
to be free from passion. If there is any time in our life when this study is likely to be appreciated,
it is this that I have chosen for Emile; before this time men would have been strangers to
him; later on he would have been like them. Convention, the effects of which he already perceives,
has not yet made him its slave, the passions, whose consequences he realises, have not yet
stirred his heart. He is a man; he takes an interest in his brethren; he is a just man and
he judges his peers. Now it is certain that if he judges them rightly he will not want to change
places with any one of them, for the goal of all their anxious efforts is the result of prejudices
which he does not share, and that goal seems to him a mere dream.  For his own part, he has
all he wants within his reach. How should he be dependent on any one when he is self-sufficing
and free from prejudice? Strong arms, good health, [Footnote: I think I may fairly reckon health
and strength among the advantages he has obtained by his education, or rather among the gifts
of nature which his education has preserved for him.] moderation, few needs, together with
the means to satisfy those needs, are his. He has been brought up in complete liberty and servitude
is the greatest ill he understands. He pities these miserable kings, the slaves of all who
obey them; he pities these false prophets fettered by their empty fame; he pities these rich
fools, martyrs to their own pomp; he pities these ostentatious voluptuaries, who spend their
life in deadly dullness that they may seem to enjoy its pleasures. He would pity the very foe
who harmed him, for he would discern his wretchedness beneath his cloak of spite. He would
say to himself, "This man has yielded to his desire to hurt me, and this need of his places
him at my mercy."

One step more and our goal is attained. Selfishness is a dangerous tool though a useful one;
it often wounds the hand that uses it, and it rarely does good unmixed with evil. When Emile
considers his place among men, when he finds himself so fortunately situated, he will be tempted
to give credit to his own reason for the work of yours, and to attribute to his own deserts
what is really the result of his good fortune. He will say to himself, "I am wise and other
men are fools." He will pity and despise them and will congratulate himself all the more heartily;
and as he knows he is happier than they, he will think his deserts are greater. This is the
fault we have most to fear, for it is the most difficult to eradicate. If he remained in this
state of mind, he would have profited little by all our care; and if I had to choose, I hardly
know whether I would not rather choose the illusions of prejudice than those of pride.

Great men are under no illusion with respect to their superiority; they see it and know it,
but they are none the less modest. The more they have, the better they know what they lack.
They are less vain of their superiority over us than ashamed by the consciousness of their
weakness, and among the good things they really possess, they are too wise to pride themselves
on a gift which is none of their getting. The good man may be proud of his virtue for it is
his own, but what cause for pride has the man of intellect? What has Racine done that he is
not Pradon, and Boileau that he is not Cotin?

The circumstances with which we are concerned are quite different. Let us keep to the common
level. I assumed that my pupil had neither surpassing genius nor a defective understanding.
I chose him of an ordinary mind to show what education could do for man. Exceptions defy all
rules. If, therefore, as a result of my care, Emile prefers his way of living, seeing, and
feeling to that of others, he is right; but if he thinks because of this that he is nobler
and better born than they, he is wrong; he is deceiving himself; he must be undeceived, or
rather let us prevent the mistake, lest it be too late to correct it.

Provided a man is not mad, he can be cured of any folly but vanity; there is no cure for this
but experience, if indeed there is any cure for it at all; when it first appears we can at
least prevent its further growth. But do not on this account waste your breath on empty arguments
to prove to the youth that he is like other men and subject to the same weaknesses. Make him
feel it or he will never know it. This is another instance of an exception to my own rules;
I must voluntarily expose my pupil to every accident which may convince him that he is no wiser
than we. The adventure with the conjurer will be repeated again and again in different ways;
I shall let flatterers take advantage of him; if rash comrades draw him into some perilous
adventure, I will let him run the risk; if he falls into the hands of sharpers at the card-table,
I will abandon him to them as their dupe.[Footnote: Moreover our pupil will be little tempted
by this snare; he has so many amusements about him, he has never been bored in his life, and
he scarcely knows the use of money. As children have been led by these two motives, self-interest
and vanity, rogues and courtesans use the same means to get hold of them later. When you see
their greediness encouraged by prizes and rewards, when you find their public performances
at ten years old applauded at school or college, you see too how at twenty they will be induced
to leave their purse in a gambling hell and their health in a worse place. You may safely wager
that the sharpest boy in the class will become the greatest gambler and debauchee. Now the
means which have not been employed in childhood have not the same effect in youth. But we must
bear in mind my constant plan and take the thing at its worst. First I try to prevent the vice;
then I assume its existence in order to correct it.] I will let them flatter him, pluck him,
and rob him; and when having sucked him dry they turn and mock him, I will even thank them
to his face for the lessons they have been good enough to give him. The only snares from which
I will guard him with my utmost care are the wiles of wanton women. The only precaution I shall
take will be to share all the dangers I let him run, and all the insults I let him receive.
I will bear everything in silence, without a murmur or reproach, without a word to him, and
be sure that if this wise conduct is faithfully adhered to, what he sees me endure on his account
will make more impression on his heart than what he himself suffers.

I cannot refrain at this point from drawing attention to the sham dignity of tutors, who foolishly
pretend to be wise, who discourage their pupils by always professing to treat them as children,
and by emphasising the difference between themselves and their scholars in everything they
do. Far from damping their youthful spirits in this fashion, spare no effort to stimulate their
courage; that they may become your equals, treat them as such already, and if they cannot rise
to your level, do not scruple to come down to theirs without being ashamed of it. Remember
that your honour is no longer in your own keeping but in your pupil's. Share his faults that
you may correct them, bear his disgrace that you may wipe it out; follow the example of that
brave Roman who, unable to rally his fleeing soldiers, placed himself at their head, exclaiming,
"They do not flee, they follow their captain!" Did this dishonour him? Not so; by sacrificing
his glory he increased it. The power of duty, the beauty of virtue, compel our respect in spite
of all our foolish prejudices. If I received a blow in the course of my duties to Emile, far
from avenging it I would boast of it; and I doubt whether there is in the whole world a man
so vile as to respect me any the less on this account.

I do not intend the pupil to suppose his master to be as ignorant, or as liable to be led astray,
as he is himself. This idea is all very well for a child who can neither see nor compare things,
who thinks everything is within his reach, and only bestows his confidence on those who know
how to come down to his level. But a youth of Emile's age and sense is no longer so foolish
as to make this mistake, and it would not be desirable that he should. The confidence he ought
to have in his tutor is of another kind; it should rest on the authority of reason, and on
superior knowledge, advantages which the young man is capable of appreciating while he perceives
how useful they are to himself. Long experience has convinced him that his tutor loves him,
that he is a wise and good man who desires his happiness and knows how to procure it. He ought
to know that it is to his own advantage to listen to his advice. But if the master lets himself
be taken in like the disciple, he will lose his right to expect deference from him, and to
give him instruction. Still less should the pupil suppose that his master is purposely letting
him fall into snares or preparing pitfalls for his inexperience. How can we avoid these two
difficulties? Choose the best and most natural means; be frank and straightforward like himself;
warn him of the dangers to which he is exposed, point them out plainly and sensibly, without
exaggeration, without temper, without pedantic display, and above all without giving your opinions
in the form of orders, until they have become such, and until this imperious tone is absolutely
necessary. Should he still be obstinate as he often will be, leave him free to follow his own
choice, follow him, copy his example, and that cheerfully and frankly; if possible fling yourself
into things, amuse yourself as much as he does. If the consequences become too serious, you
are at hand to prevent them; and yet when this young man has beheld your foresight and your
kindliness, will he not be at once struck by the one and touched by the other? All his faults
are but so many hands with which he himself provides you to restrain him at need. Now under
these circumstances the great art of the master consists in controlling events and directing
his exhortations so that he may know beforehand when the youth will give in, and when he will
refuse to do so, so that all around him he may encompass him with the lessons of experience,
and yet never let him run too great a risk.

Warn him of his faults before he commits them; do not blame him when once they are committed;
you would only stir his self-love to mutiny. We learn nothing from a lesson we detest. I know
nothing more foolish than the phrase, "I told you so." The best way to make him remember what
you told him is to seem to have forgotten it. Go further than this, and when you find him ashamed
of having refused to believe you, gently smooth away the shame with kindly words. He will indeed
hold you dear when he sees how you forget yourself on his account, and how you console him
instead of reproaching him. But if you increase his annoyance by your reproaches he will hate
you, and will make it a rule never to heed you, as if to show you that he does not agree with
you as to the value of your opinion.

The turn you give to your consolation may itself be a lesson to him, and all the more because
he does not suspect it. When you tell him, for example, that many other people have made the
same mistakes, this is not what he was expecting; you are administering correction under the
guise of pity; for when one thinks oneself better than other people it is a very mortifying
excuse to console oneself by their example; it means that we must realise that the most we
can say is that they are no better than we.

The time of faults is the time for fables. When we blame the guilty under the cover of a story
we instruct without offending him; and he then understands that the story is not untrue by
means of the truth he finds in its application to himself. The child who has never been deceived
by flattery understands nothing of the fable I recently examined; but the rash youth who has
just become the dupe of a flatterer perceives only too readily that the crow was a fool. Thus
he acquires a maxim from the fact, and the experience he would soon have forgotten is engraved
on his mind by means of the fable. There is no knowledge of morals which cannot be acquired
through our own experience or that of others. When there is danger, instead of letting him
try the experiment himself, we have recourse to history. When the risk is comparatively slight,
it is just as well that the youth should be exposed to it; then by means of the apologue the
special cases with which the young man is now acquainted are transformed into maxims.

It is not, however, my intention that these maxims should be explained, nor even formulated.
Nothing is so foolish and unwise as the moral at the end of most of the fables; as if the moral
was not, or ought not to be so clear in the fable itself that the reader cannot fail to perceive
it. Why then add the moral at the end, and go deprive him of the pleasure of discovering it
for himself. The art of teaching consists in making the pupil wish to learn. But if the pupil
is to wish to learn, his mind must not remain in such a passive state with regard to what you
tell him that there is really nothing for him to do but listen to you. The master's vanity
must always give way to the scholars; he must be able to say, I understand, I see it, I am
getting at it, I am learning something.  One of the things which makes the Pantaloon in the
Italian comedies so wearisome is the pains taken by him to explain to the audience the platitudes
they understand only too well already. We must always be intelligible, but we need not say
all there is to be said. If you talk much you will say little, for at last no one will listen
to you. What is the sense of the four lines at the end of La Fontaine's fable of the frog who
puffed herself up. Is he afraid we should not understand it? Does this great painter need to
write the names beneath the things he has painted? His morals, far from generalising, restrict
the lesson to some extent to the examples given, and prevent our applying them to others. Before
I put the fables of this inimitable author into the hands of a youth, I should like to cut
out all the conclusions with which he strives to explain what he has just said so clearly and
pleasantly. If your pupil does not understand the fable without the explanation, he will not
understand it with it.

Moreover, the fables would require to be arranged in a more didactic order, one more in agreement
with the feelings and knowledge of the young adolescent. Can you imagine anything so foolish
as to follow the mere numerical order of the book without regard to our requirements or our
opportunities. First the grasshopper, then the crow, then the frog, then the two mules, etc.
I am sick of these two mules; I remember seeing a child who was being educated for finance;
they never let him alone, but were always insisting on the profession he was to follow; they
made him read this fable, learn it, say it, repeat it again and again without finding in it
the slightest argument against his future calling. Not only have I never found children make
any real use of the fables they learn, but I have never found anybody who took the trouble
to see that they made such a use of them. The study claims to be instruction in morals; but
the real aim of mother and child is nothing but to set a whole party watching the child while
he recites his fables; when he is too old to recite them and old enough to make use of them,
they are altogether forgotten. Only men, I repeat, can learn from fables, and Emile is now
old enough to begin.

I do not mean to tell you everything, so I only indicate the paths which diverge from the right
way, so that you may know how to avoid them. If you follow the road I have marked out for you,
I think your pupil will buy his knowledge of mankind and his knowledge of himself in the cheapest
market; you will enable him to behold the tricks of fortune without envying the lot of her
favourites, and to be content with himself without thinking himself better than others. You
have begun by making him an actor that he may learn to be one of the audience; you must continue
your task, for from the theatre things are what they seem, from the stage they seem what they
are. For the general effect we must get a distant view, for the details we must observe more
closely. But how can a young man take part in the business of life? What right has he to be
initiated into its dark secrets? His interests are confined within the limits of his own pleasures,
he has no power over others, it is much the same as if he had no power at all. Man is the cheapest
commodity on the market, and among all our important rights of property, the rights of the
individual are always considered last of all.

When I see the studies of young men at the period of their greatest activity confined to purely
speculative matters, while later on they are suddenly plunged, without any sort of experience,
into the world of men and affairs, it strikes me as contrary alike to reason and to nature,
and I cease to be surprised that so few men know what to do.  How strange a choice to teach
us so many useless things, while the art of doing is never touched upon! They profess to fit
us for society, and we are taught as if each of us were to live a life of contemplation in
a solitary cell, or to discuss theories with persons whom they did not concern. You think you
are teaching your scholars how to live, and you teach them certain bodily contortions and certain
forms of words without meaning. I, too, have taught Emile how to live; for I have taught him
to enjoy his own society and, more than that, to earn his own bread. But this is not enough.
To live in the world he must know how to get on with other people, he must know what forces
move them, he must calculate the action and re-action of self-interest in civil society, he
must estimate the results so accurately that he will rarely fail in his undertakings, or he
will at least have tried in the best possible way. The law does not allow young people to manage
their own affairs nor to dispose of their own property; but what would be the use of these
precautions if they never gained any experience until they were of age. They would have gained
nothing by the delay, and would have no more experience at five-and-twenty than at fifteen.
No doubt we must take precautions, so that a youth, blinded by ignorance or misled by passion,
may not hurt himself; but at any age there are opportunities when deeds of kindness and of
care for the weak may be performed under the direction of a wise man, on behalf of the unfortunate
who need help.

Mothers and nurses grow fond of children because of the care they lavish on them; the practice
of social virtues touches the very heart with the love of humanity; by doing good we become
good; and I know no surer way to this end. Keep your pupil busy with the good deeds that are
within his power, let the cause of the poor be his own, let him help them not merely with his
money, but with his service; let him work for them, protect them, let his person and his time
be at their disposal; let him be their agent; he will never all his life long have a more honourable
office. How many of the oppressed, who have never got a hearing, will obtain justice when he
demands it for them with that courage and firmness which the practice of virtue inspires; when
he makes his way into the presence of the rich and great, when he goes, if need be, to the
footstool of the king himself, to plead the cause of the wretched, the cause of those who find
all doors closed to them by their poverty, those who are so afraid of being punished for their
misfortunes that they do not dare to complain?

But shall we make of Emile a knight-errant, a redresser of wrongs, a paladin? Shall he thrust
himself into public life, play the sage and the defender of the laws before the great, before
the magistrates, before the king? Shall he lay petitions before the judges and plead in the
law courts? That I cannot say. The nature of things is not changed by terms of mockery and
scorn. He will do all that he knows to be useful and good. He will do nothing more, and he
knows that nothing is useful and good for him which is unbefitting his age. He knows that his
first duty is to himself; that young men should distrust themselves; that they should act circumspectly;
that they should show respect to those older than themselves, reticence and discretion in talking
without cause, modesty in things indifferent, but courage in well doing, and boldness to speak
the truth. Such were those illustrious Romans who, having been admitted into public life, spent
their days in bringing criminals to justice and in protecting the innocent, without any motives
beyond those of learning, and of the furtherance of justice and of the protection of right conduct.

