A few years since, a young man, being ambitious to place his name above all others, was very
near losing his life in the attempt. After much fatigue he climbed up as high as possible,
but found that the person who had before occupied his place was taller than himself, and consequently
had placed his name above his reach. But he was not thus to be discouraged. He opened a large
jack-knife, and, in the soft limestone, began to cut places for his hands and feet. With much
patience and industry he worked his way upwards, and succeeded in carving his name higher than
the most ambitious had done before him. He could now triumph, but his triumph was short; for
he was placed in such a situation that it was impossible to descend, unless he fell upon the
ragged rocks beneath him. There was no house near, from whence his companions could get assistance.
He could not long remain in that condition, and, what was worse, his friends were too much
frightened to do anything for his relief. They looked upon him as already dead, expecting every
moment to see him precipitated upon the rocks below and dashed to pieces. Not so with himself.
He determined to ascend. Accordingly he plies the rock with his knife, cutting places for his
hands and feet, and gradually ascended with incredible labour. He exerts every muscle. His
life was at stake, and all the terrors of death rose before him. He dared not look downwards,
lest his head should become dizzy; and perhaps on this circumstance his life depended. His
companions stood at the top of the rock, exhorting and encouraging him. His strength was almost
exhausted; but a bare possibility of saving his life still remained; and hope, the last friend
of the distressed, had not yet forsaken him. His course upwards was rather oblique than perpendicular.
His most critical moment had now arrived. He had ascended considerably more than two hundred
feet, and had still further to rise, when he felt himself fast growing weak. He thought of
his friends, and all his earthly joys, and he could not leave them. He thought of the grave,
and dared not meet it. He now made his last effort and succeeded. He had cut his way not far
from two hundred and fifty feet from the water, in a course almost perpendicular; and in a
little less than two hours, his anxious companions reached him a pole from the top, and drew
him up. They received him with shouts of joy, but he himself was completely exhausted. He immediately
fainted on reaching the top, and it was some time before he could be recovered!

It was interesting to see the path up these awful rocks, and to follow in imagination this
bold youth as he thus saved his life. His name stands far above all the rest, a monument of
hardihood, of rashness, and of folly.

We lingered around this seat of grandeur about four hours; but, from my own feelings, I should
not have supposed it over half an hour. There is a little cottage near, lately built; here
we were desired to write our names, as visitors of the bridge, in a large book kept for this
purpose. Two large volumes were nearly filled in this manner already. Having immortalised our
names by enrolling them in this book, we slowly and silently returned to our horses, wondering
at this great work of nature; and we could not but be filled with astonishment at the amazing
power of Him who can clothe Himself in wonder and terror, or throw around His works a mantle
of sublimity.

WIER'S CAVE.

About three days' ride from the Natural Bridge brought Mr. Todd and his companions to a place
called Port Republic, about twenty miles from the town of Staunton. Here they prepared themselves
to visit this other natural curiosity.

The shower was now over, which had wet us to the skin--the sun was pouring down his most scorching
rays--the heavy thunder had gone by; we threw around our delighted eyes, and beheld near us
the lofty Alleghany rearing his shaggy head. The south branch of the Shenandoah river, with
its banks covered with beautiful trees, was murmuring at our feet--a lovely plain stretched
below us, as far as the eye could reach; and we, with our guide, were now standing about half
way up a hill nearly two hundred feet high, and so steep that a biscuit may be thrown from
its top into the river at its foot--we were standing at the mouth of WIER'S CAVE. This cavern
derives its name from Barnet Wier, who discovered it in the year 1804. It is situated near
Madison's Cave, so celebrated; though the latter cannot be compared with the former.

There were three of us, besides our guide, with lighted torches, and our loins girded, now
ready to descend into the cave. We took our torches in our left hands and entered. The mouth
was so small that we could descend only by creeping, one after another. A descent of almost
twenty yards brought us into the first room. The cave was exceedingly cold, dark, and silent,
like the chambers of death. In this manner we proceeded, now descending thirty or forty feet--now
ascending as high--now creeping on our hands and knees, and now walking in large rooms--the
habitations of solitude. The mountain seems to be composed almost wholly of limestone, and
by this means the cave is lined throughout with the most beautiful incrustations and stalactites
of carbonated lime, which are formed by the continual dripping of the water through the roof.
These stalactites are of various and elegant shapes and colours, often bearing a striking resemblance
to animated nature. At one place we saw over our heads what appeared to be a waterfall of the
most beautiful kind. Nor could the imagination be easily persuaded that it was not a reality.
You could see the water boiling and dashing down,--see its white spray and foam--but it was
all solid limestone.

Thus we passed onward in this world of solitude--now stopping to admire the beauties of a single
stalactite--now wondering at the magnificence of a large room--now creeping through narrow
passages, hardly wide enough to admit the body of a man,--and now walking in superb galleries,
until we came to the largest room, called WASHINGTON HALL. This is certainly the most elegant
room I ever saw. It is about two hundred and seventy feet in length, about thirty-five in width,
and between thirty and forty feet high. The roof and sides are very beautifully adorned by
the tinsels which Nature has bestowed in the greatest profusion, and which sparkle like the
diamond, while surveyed by the light of torches. The floor is flat, and smooth, and solid.
I was foremost of our little party in entering the room, and was not a little startled as I
approached the centre, to see a figure, as it were, rising up before me out of the solid rock.
It was not far from seven feet high, and corresponded in every respect to the common idea of
a ghost. It was very white, and resembled a tall man clothed in a shroud. I went up to it sideways,
though I could not really expect to meet a ghost in a place like this. On examination I found
it was a very beautiful piece of the carbonate of lime, very transparent, and very much in
the shape of a man. This is called WASHINGTON'S STATUE--as if Nature would do for this hero
what his delivered country has not done--rear a statue to his memory.

Here an accident happened which might have been serious. One of our party had purposely extinguished
his light, lest we should not have enough to last. My companion accidentally put out his light,
and in sport came and blew out mine. We were now about sixteen hundred feet from daylight,
with but one feeble light, which the falling water might in a moment have extinguished. Add
to this, that the person who held this light was at some distance viewing some falling water.

    "Conticuere omnes, intentique ora tenebant."

We, however, once more lighted our torches; but, had we not been able to do so, we might, at
our leisure, have contemplated the gloominess of the cavern, for no one would have come to
us till the next day. In one room we found an excellent spring of water, which boiled up as
if to slake our thirst, then sunk into the mountain, and was seen no more. In another room
was a noble pillar, called the TOWER OF BABEL. It is composed entirely of stalactites of lime,
or, as the appearance would seem to suggest, of petrified water. It is about thirty feet in
diameter, and a little more than ninety feet in circumference, and not far from thirty feet
high. There are probably millions of stalactites in this one pillar.

Thus we wandered on in this world within a world, till we had visited twelve very beautiful
rooms, and as many creeping places, and had now arrived at the end,--a distance from our entrance
of between twenty-four and twenty-five hundred feet; or, what is about its equal, half a mile
from the mouth. We here found ourselves exceedingly fatigued; but our torches forbade us to
tarry, and we once more turned our lingering steps towards the common world. When we arrived
again at Washington Hall, one of our company three times discharged a pistol, whose report
was truly deafening; and as the sound reverberated and echoed through one room after another
till it died away in distance, it seemed like the moanings of spirits. We continued our wandering
steps till we arrived once more at daylight, having been nearly three hours in the cavern.
We were much fatigued, covered with dirt, and in a cold sweat; yet we regretted to leave it.
From the farther end of the cave I gathered some handsome stalactites, which I put into my
portmanteau, and preserved as mementos of that day's visit.

To compare the Natural Bridge and Cave together as objects of curiosity, is exceedingly difficult.
Many consider the Bridge as the greatest curiosity; but I think the Cavern is. In looking at
the Bridge we are filled with awe; at the Cavern with delight. At the Bridge we have several
views that are awful; at the Cave hundreds that are pleasing. At the Bridge you stand and gaze
in astonishment; at the Cave awfulness is lost in beauty, and grandeur is dressed in a thousand
captivating forms. At the Bridge you feel yourself to be looking into another world; at the
Cave you find yourself already arrived there. The one presents to us a God who is very "wonderful
in working;" the other exhibits the same power, but with it is blended loveliness in a thousand
forms. In each is vastness. Greatness constitutes the whole of one; but the other is elegant,
as well as great. Of each we must retain lively impressions; and to witness such displays of
the Creator's power, must ever be considered as happy events in our lives. While viewing scenes
like these, we must ever exalt the energy of creating power, and sink under the thoughts of
our own insignificance. The works of nature are admirably well calculated to impress us deeply
with a sense of the mighty power of God, who can separate two mountains by a channel of awfulness,
or fill the bowels of a huge mountain with beauties, that man, with all the aid of art, can
only admire, but never imitate.

~The Christian Slave.~

We venture to extract another of Mr. Todd's Simple Sketches, so charmingly are they described.

The sun had set, and I began to be anxious to find a place of rest for the night, after a day's
ride under a sultry sun. I was travelling in South Carolina, and was now not far from a branch
of the Cooper river. The country here is a dead level, and its surface is covered with thinly
scattered pines. I came to an old church--it stood solitary; not a house in sight: it was built
of wood, and much decayed. The breezes of evening were gently sighing through the tops of the
long-leaved pines which stood near; while still nearer stood several large live-oaks, which
spread out their aged arms, as if to shelter what was sacred. On their limbs hung, in graceful
folds, the long grey moss, as if a mantle of mourning, waving over a few decayed tombs at the
east side of the church. These oaks give the place a very sombre and awful appearance; they
seemed to stand as silent mourners over the dust of generations that had sunk into the grave,
and waiting in solemn expectation that others would soon come and lie beneath their shade in
the long sleep of death. The time of day, and the sacredness of the spot, were so congenial
to my own feelings, that I involuntarily stopped my horse.

My curiosity was now excited by seeing a very aged negro standing and gazing steadily on a
small decaying tomb. He seemed to be intent, and did not observe me; his woolly locks were
whitened by age; his countenance was manly, though it bore the marks of sorrow; he was leaning
on his smooth-worn staff, the companion of many years. I was somewhat surprised on seeing this
aged African silently meditating among the vestiges of the dead, and accordingly roused him
from his reverie. He started at first, but his confidence was soon gained. There is a spring
in the bosom of every Christian, which throws a joy into his heart whenever he meets a fellow-christian
during his pilgrimage here below. I found the old negro to be an eminent Christian, and we
were soon acquainted. I inquired what motive induced him, at that hour of the day, to visit
these tombs. Instead of answering my question directly he gave me the following account of
himself, in broken language:--

About sixty years ago, this negro was living under his paternal roof in Africa. He was the
son of a chief of a small tribe, the pride of his parents, and the delight of his countrymen;
none could more dexterously throw the dart; none more skilfully guide the fragile canoe over
the bosom of the deep. He was not far from twenty years of age, when, on a fair summer's morn,
he went in his little canoe to spend the day in fishing. About noon he paddled his bark to
the shore, and, under the shade of a beautiful palmetto-tree, he reclined till the heat of
noon-day should be passed. He was young, healthy, and active; he knew none whom he dreaded;
he was a stranger to fear, and he dreamed only of security, as he slept under the shade of
his own native tree. Thus, while our sky is encircled with the bow of happiness, we forget
that it may soon be overspread with darkness. When this African awoke, he found his hands bound
behind him, his feet fettered, and himself surrounded by several white men, who were conveying
him on board of their ship;--it was a slave-ship. The vessel had her cargo completed, and was
ready to sail. As they were unfurling the sails, the son of Africa, with many others of his
countrymen, for the last time cast his eyes upon his native shores. Futurity was dark,--was
uncertain,--was despair. His bosom thrilled with anguish, as he threw his last farewell look
over the plains of his native country. There was his native spot where his had lived, there
the home of his infancy and childhood, there the place where he had inhaled his earliest breath--and
to tear him from these, seemed like breaking the very strings of his heart.

After a melancholy passage, during which the African was forced to wear double the irons to
receive double the number of lashes, that any of his companions received, on account of his
refractory spirit, he was at length landed and sold to a planter in the place where he now
resides. There is nothing new, nothing novel or interesting, that ever takes place in the life
of a slave--describe one day, and you write the history of a slave. The sun, indeed, continues
to roll over him; but it sheds upon him no new joys, no new prospects, no new hopes. So it
was with the subject of this narrative. His master was naturally a man of a very humane disposition;
but his overseers were often little else than compounds of vice and cruelty. In this situation
the negro lost all his natural independence and bravery. He often attempted to run away, but
was as often taken and punished. Having no cultivated mind to which he could look for consolation--knowing
of no change that was ever to take place in his situation,--he settled down in gloominess.
Often would he send a silent sigh for the home of his youth; but his path shewed but few marks
of happiness, and few rays of hope for futurity were drawn by fancy's hand. Sunk in despondency
and vice, he was little above the brutes around him.

In this situation he was accidentally met by the good minister of the parish, who addressed
him as a rational and immortal being, and pressed upon him the first principles of religion.
This was a new subject; for he had never before looked beyond the narrow bounds before him,
nor had he ever dreamed of a world beyond this. After a long conversation on this subject,
the minister made him promise that he would now "attend to his soul."

The clergyman could not, for many months after this, obtain an interview with his new pupil,
who most carefully shunned him. But though afraid to meet his minister, he still felt an arrow
of conviction in his heart. Wherever he went, whether asleep or awake, to use his own words,
his promise, "me take care of soul, stick close to him," He now began in earnest to seek "the
one thing needful". By the kindness of his master he learned to read his Testament, and to
inquire more about Jesus. He was now very desirous to see his minister; and before a convenient
opportunity occurred, he was in such distress of mind as actually to attempt two several times
to kill himself. His minister visited him, conversed and prayed with him.

"Oh," he would say, "God never think such poor negro, he no love so much sinner, he no before
ever see such bad heart!" The mercy of Christ, and his compassion towards sinners, were explained
to him, and his soul was filled with "joy and peace in believing," He now rejoiced and thanked
God that he was brought from his native shores, as he had a fairer country, and purer enjoyments
presented to his view, after the scenes of this transitory world shall be over. He now became
more industrious and more faithful. By uncommon industry he raised money sufficient to purchase
his own freedom. He next bought the liberty of his wife, and had nearly completed paying for
that of his only daughter, when she was liberated by the hand of death. His wife soon followed
her, and left this world a perfect void to the husband and father. His every tie that bound
him to earth was now broken. Having no earthly enjoyment, he now placed his affections on heaven
above. It is easy for the Christian to make rapid progress in holiness when not fettered by
worldly cares.

It was now dark, and I must leave my new acquaintance. I left him with his face wet with tears,
still standing beside the tomb--the tomb of his old minister! This good man had been his faithful
and constant guide, and though his ashes had been slumbering for years, the negro had not yet
forgotten how to weep at their urn. I could not but admire the wonderful dealings of God, in
order to bring men to himself. Happy minister! who hast been the instrument of covering a multitude
of sins! Happy negro! his is not this world. Though no sculptured marble may tell the traveller
where he may shortly lie--though he never trod the thorny road of ambition or power--though
the trumpet of fame never blew the echo of his name through a gaping world--still those eyes,
which will soon be closed in death, may hereafter awake, to behold, undaunted, a world in flames,
and these heavens fleeing away.

~Violent Earthquake in Calabria.~

In nature there is nothing which can inspire us with so much awe as those violent outbreakings
which occasionally convulse the earth, creating fearful devastation, overthrowing cities, and
destroying much life and property. The following is a description of one which occurred in
Calabria and Sicily in the year 1783; and which, from its violence, overthrew many cities,
creating an universal consternation in the minds of the inhabitants of the two kingdoms.

On Wednesday, the fifth of February, about one in the afternoon, the earth was convulsed in
that part of Calabria which is bounded by the rivers of Gallico and Metramo, by the mountains
Jeio, Sagra, and Caulone, and the coast between these rivers and the Tuscan Sea. This district
is called the Piana, because the country extends itself from the roots of the Appenines, in
a plain, for twenty Italian miles in length by eighteen in breadth. The earthquake lasted about
a hundred seconds. It was felt as far as Otranto, Palermo, Lipari, and the other Æolian isles;
a little also in Apuglia, and the Terra di Cavoro; in Naples and the Abruzzi not at all. There
stood in this plain a hundred and nine cities and villages, the habitations of a hundred and
sixty-six thousand human beings; and in less than two minutes all these edifices were destroyed,
with nearly thirty-two thousand individuals of every age, sex, and station,--the rich equally
with the poor; for there existed no power of escaping from so sudden a destruction. The soil
of the Piana was granite at the base of the Apennines, but in the plain the debris of every
sort of earth, brought down from the mountains by the rains, constituted a mass of unequal
solidity, resistance, weight, and form. On this account, whatever might have been the cause
of the earthquake, whether volcanic or electrical, the movement assumed every possible direction--vertical,
horizontal, oscillatory, vorticose, and pulsatory; producing every variety of destruction.
In one place, a city or house was thrown down, in another it was immersed. Here, trees were
buried to their topmost branches, beside others stripped and overturned. Some mountains opened
in the middle, and dispersed their mass to the right and left, their summits disappearing,
or being lost in the newly-formed valleys; others slipped from their foundations along with
all their edifices, which sometimes were overthrown, but more rarely remained uninjured, and
the inhabitants not even disturbed in their sleep. The earth opened in many places, forming
frightful abysses; while, at a small distance, it rose into hills. The waters, too, changed
their course; rivers uniting to form lakes, or spreading into marshes; disappearing, to rise
again in new streams, through other banks, or running at large, to lay bare and desolate the
most fertile fields. Nothing retained its ancient form, cities, roads, and boundaries vanished,--so
that the inhabitants were bewildered as if in an unknown land. The works of art and of nature,
the elaborations of centuries, together with many a stream and rock, coeval perhaps with the
world itself, were in a single instant destroyed and overthrown.... Whirlwinds, tempests, the
flames of volcanoes, and of burning edifices, rain, wind, and thunder, accompanied the movements
of the earth: all the forces of nature were in activity, and it seemed as if all its laws were
suspended, and the last hour of created things at hand. In the meantime, the sea between Scylla,
Charybdis, and the coasts of Reggio and Messina, was raised many fathoms above its usual level;
overflowing its banks, and then, in its return to its channel, carrying away men and beasts.
By these means, two thousand persons lost their lives on Scylla alone, who were either congregated
on the sands, or had escaped in boats, from the dangers of the dry land. Etna and Stromboli
were in more than usual activity: but this hardly excited attention, amidst greater and graver
disasters. A worse fire than that of the volcanoes resulted from the incidents of the earthquake;
for the beams of the falling houses being ignited by the burning heaths, the flames, fanned
by the winds, were so vast and fierce, that they seemed to issue from the bosom of the earth.
The heavens, alternately cloudy or serene, had given no previous sign of the approaching calamity;
but a new source of suffering followed it, in a thick fog, which obscured the light of the
day, and added to the darkness of night. Irritating to the eyes, injurious to the respiration,
fetid, and immoveable, it hung over the two Calabrias for more than twenty days,--an occasion
of melancholy, disease, and annoyance, both to man and to animals....

At the first shock, no token, in heaven or on earth, had excited attention; but at the sudden
movement, and at the aspect of destruction, an overwhelming terror seized on the general mind,
insomuch, that the instinct of self-preservation was suspended, and men remained thunderstricken
and immoveable. On the return of reason, the first sentiment was a sort of joy at the partial
escape; but they soon gave place to grief for the loss of family, and the overthrow of the
domestic habitation. Amidst so many aspects of death, and the apprehension even of approaching
judgment, the suspicion that friends were yet alive under the ruins was the most excruciating
affliction, since the impossibility of assisting them rendered their death--(miserable and
terrible consolation)--a matter of preference and of hope. Fathers and husbands were seen wandering
amidst the ruins that covered the objects of their affections, and, wanting the power to move
the superincumbent masses, were calling in vain for the assistance of the bystanders; or haply
they lay groaning, night and day, in their despair, upon the ruinous fragments. But the most
horrid fate--(a fate too dreadful to conceive or to relate)--was theirs, who, buried alive
beneath the fallen edifices, awaited, with an anxious and doubtful hope, the chances of relief--accusing,
at first, the slowness, and then the avarice, of their dearest relations and friends; and when
they sank under hunger and grief--with their senses and memory beginning to fail them--their
last sentiment was that of indignation against their kindred, and hatred of humanity. Many
were disinterred alive by their friends, and some by the earthquake itself; which, overthrowing
the very ruins it had made, restored them to light. It was ultimately found, that about a fourth
of those whose bodies were recovered, might have been saved, had timely assistance been at
hand. The men were chiefly found in attitudes indicating an effort at escape, the women with
their hands covering their face, or desperately plunged in their hair. Mothers were discovered
dead who had striven to protect their infants with their own bodies, or lay with their arms
stretched towards these objects of affection, when separated from them by intervening masses
of ruin.

~Escape from a Ship on Fire.~

From the "Missionary Annual" for 1833.

Many of the party, having retired to their hammocks soon after the commencement of the storm,
were only partially clothed, when they made their escape; but the seamen on the watch, in consequence
of the heavy rain, having cased themselves in double or treble dresses, supplied their supernumerary
articles of clothing to those who had none. We happily succeeded in bringing away two compasses
from the binnacle, and a few candles from the cuddy-table, one of them lighted; one bottle
of wine, and another of porter, were handed to us, with the tablecloth and a knife, which proved
very useful; but the fire raged so fiercely in the body of the vessel, that neither bread nor
water could be obtained. The rain still poured in torrents; the lightning, followed by loud
bursting of thunder, continued to stream from one side of the heavens to the other,--one moment
dazzling us by its glare, and the next moment leaving us in darkness, relieved only by the
red flames of the conflagration from which we were endeavouring to escape. Our first object
was to proceed to a distance from the vessel, lest she should explode and overwhelm us; but,
to our inexpressible distress, we discovered that the yawl had no rudder, and that for the
two boats we had only three oars. All exertions to obtain more from the ship proved unsuccessful.
The gig had a rudder; from this they threw out a rope to take us in tow; and, by means of a
few paddles, made by tearing up the lining of the boat, we assisted in moving ourselves slowly
through the water, providentially the sea was comparatively smooth, or our overloaded boats
would have swamped, and we should only have escaped the flames to have perished in the deep.
The wind was light, but variable, and, acting on the sails, which, being drenched with the
rain, did not soon take fire, drove the burning mass, in terrific grandeur, over the surface
of the ocean, the darkness of which was only illuminated by the quick glancing of the lightning
or the glare of the conflagration. Our situation was for some time extremely perilous. The
vessel neared us more than once, and apparently threatened to involve us in one common destruction.
The cargo, consisting of dry provisions, spirits, cotton goods, and other articles equally
combustible, burned with great violence, while the fury of the destroying element, the amazing
height of the flames, the continued storm, amidst the thick darkness of the night, rendered
the scene appalling and terrible. About ten o'clock, the masts, after swaying from side to
side, fell with a dreadful crash into the sea, and the hull of the vessel continued to burn
amidst the shattered fragments of the wreck, till the sides were consumed to the water's edge.
The spectacle was truly magnificent, could it even have been contemplated by us without a recollection
of our own circumstances. The torments endured by the dogs, sheep, and other animals on board,
at any other time would have excited our deepest commiseration; but at present, the object
before us, our stately ship, that had for the last four months been our social home, the scene
of our enjoyments, our labours, and our rest, now a prey to the destroying element; the suddenness
with which we had been hurried from circumstances of comfort and comparative security, to those
of destitution and peril, and with which the most exhilarating hopes had been exchanged for
disappointment as unexpected as it was afflictive; the sudden death of the two seamen, our
own narrow escape, and lonely situation on the face of the deep, and the great probability
even yet, although we had succeeded in removing to a greater distance from the vessel, that
we ourselves should never again see the light of day, or set foot on solid ground, absorbed
every feeling. For some time the silence was scarcely broken, and the thoughts of many, I doubt
not, were engaged on subjects most suitable to immortal beings on the brink of eternity. The
number of persons in the two boats was forty-eight; and all, with the exception of the two
ladies, who bore this severe visitation with uncommon fortitude, worked by turns at the oars
and paddles. After some time, to our great relief, the rain ceased; the labour of baling water
from the boats was then considerably diminished. We were frequently hailed during the night
by our companions in the small boat, and returned the call, while the brave and generous-hearted
seamen occasionally enlivened the solitude of the deep by a simultaneous "Hurra!" to cheer
each others' labours, and to animate their spirits. The Tanjore rose in the water as its contents
were gradually consumed. We saw it burning the whole night, and at day-break could distinguish
a column of smoke, which, however, soon ceased, and every sign of our favourite vessel disappeared.
When the sun rose, our anxiety and uncertainty as to our situation were greatly relieved by
discovering land ahead; the sight of it filled us with grateful joy, and nerved us with fresh
vigour for the exertion required in managing the boats. With the advance of the day we discerned
more clearly the nature of the country. It was wild and covered with jungle, without any appearance
of population: could we have got ashore, therefore, many of us might have perished before assistance
could have been procured; but the breakers, dashing upon the rocks, convinced us that landing
was impracticable. In the course of the morning we discovered a native vessel, or dhoney, lying
at anchor, at some distance: the wind at that time beginning to favour us, every means was
devised to render it available. In the yawl we extended the tablecloth as a sail, and in the
other boat a blanket served the same purpose. This additional help was the more seasonable,
as the rays of the sun had become almost intolerable to our partially covered bodies. Some
of the seamen attempted to quench their thirst by salt water: but the passengers encouraged
each other to abstain. About noon we reached the dhoney. The natives on board were astonished
and alarmed at our appearance, and expressed some unwillingness to receive us; but our circumstances
would admit of no denial; and we scarcely waited till our Singalese fellow-passenger could
interpret to them our situation and our wants, before we ascended the sides of their vessel,
assuring them that every expense and loss sustained on our account should be amply repaid.

~Anecdotes of the Albatross, &c.~

The author of the following extracts is Mr. Augustus Earle, whose life has been one of wandering
and peril, traversing every quarter of the globe. The account of his residence for nine months
among the New Zealanders is very interesting; but a description of their cannibal habits will
not suit the taste of many of our young readers. We shall therefore accompany him to the Island
of Tristan d'Acunha, upon which, by accident, he was left, where he amused himself hunting
goats, sea elephants, albatrosses, and penguins; while, like another Crusoe, he occasionally
watched for the ship that should release him from his island prison. His work is intitled "Nine
Months' Residence in New Zealand," &c.

THE ALBATROSS.

Being a fine morning, I determined to ascend the mountain. As several parties had before gone
up, they had formed a kind of path: at least we endeavoured to trace the same way; but it requires
a great deal of nerve to attempt it. The sides of the mountain are nearly perpendicular; but,
after ascending about two hundred feet, it is there entirely covered with wood, which renders
the footing much more safe; but in order to get to the wood, the road is so dangerous, that
it made me almost tremble to think of it,--slippery grey rocks, and many of them unfortunately
loose, so that when we took hold, they separated from the mass, and fell with a horrid rumbling
noise. Here and there were a few patches of grass, the only thing we could depend upon to assist
us in climbing, which must be done with extreme caution, for the least slip or false step would
dash one to atoms on the rocks below. By keeping our eyes constantly looking upwards, and continuing
to haul ourselves up, by catching firm hold on this grass, after an hour's painful toil we
gained the summit, where we found ourselves on an extended plain, of several miles expanse,
which terminates in the peak, composed of dark grey lava, bare and frightful to behold. We
proceeded towards it, the plain gradually rising, but the walking was most fatiguing, over
strong rank grass and fern several feet high, with holes concealed under the roots in such
a way, that no possible caution could prevent our occasionally falling down into one or other
of them, and entirely disappearing, which caused a boisterous laugh amongst the rest; but it
frequently happened, while one was making merry at the expense of another, down sunk the laugher
himself. A death-like stillness prevailed in these high regions, and, to my ear, our voices
had a strange, unnatural echo, and I fancied our forms appeared gigantic, whilst the air was
piercing cold. The prospect was altogether very sublime, and filled the mind with awe! On the
one side, the boundless horizon, heaped up with clouds of silvery brightness, contrasted with
some of darker hue, enveloping us in their vapour, and, passing rapidly away, gave us only
casual glances of the landscape; and, on the other hand, the sterile and cindery peak, with
its venerable head, partly capped with clouds, partly revealing great patches of red cinders,
or lava, intermingled with the black rock, produced a most extraordinary and dismal effect.
It seemed as though it were still actually burning, to heighten the sublimity of the scene.
The huge albatross appeared here to dread no interloper or enemy; for their young were on the
ground completely uncovered, and the old ones were stalking around them. This bird is the largest
of the aquatic tribe; and its plumage is of a most delicate white, excepting the back and the
tops of its wings, which are grey: they lay but one egg, on the ground, where they form a kind
of nest, by scraping the earth round it. After the young one is hatched, it has to remain a
year before it can fly; it is entirely white, and covered with a woolly down, which is very
beautiful. As we approached them, they clapped their beaks, with a very quick motion, which
made a great noise. This, and throwing up the contents of the stomach, are the only means of
offence and defence they seem to possess. The old ones, which are valuable on account of their
feathers, my companions made dreadful havoc amongst, knocking on the head all they could come
up with. These birds are very helpless on the land, the great length of their wings precluding
them from rising up into the air, unless they can get to a steep declivity. On the level ground
they were completely at our mercy, but very little was shewn them; and in a very short space
of time the plain was strewn with their bodies, one blow on the head generally killing them
instantly. Five months after, many of the young birds were still sitting on their nests, and
had never moved away from them; they remain there for a year before they can fly, and during
that long period are fed by the mother. They had greatly increased in size and beauty since
my first visit to them. The semblance of the young bird, as it sits on the nest, is stately
and beautiful. The white down, which is its first covering, giving place gradually to its natural
grey plumage, leaves half the creature covered with down; the other half is a fine compact
coat of feathers, composed of white and grey; while the head is of a dazzling, silvery white.
Their size is prodigious, one of them proving a tolerable load. Upon skinning them, on our
return, we found they were covered with a fine white fat, which I was told was excellent for
frying, and other culinary purposes; and the flesh was quite as delicate, and could scarcely
be distinguished in flavour from lamb. Besides our albatross, the dogs caught some small birds,
about the size of our partridge, but their gait was something like that of the penguin. The
male is of a glossy black, with a bright red hard crest on the top of the head. The hen is
brown.