Juancho hovered about his adversary, advancing his left arm, protected by numerous folds of
cloth, as a buckler, his right drawn back to give more swing and force to the blow; now stooping
with knees bent, then rising up like a giant, and again sinking down like a dwarf; but the
point of his knife was always met by the cloaked arm of Andrés. Alternately retreating and
suddenly and impetuously attacking, he sprang right and left, balancing his blade on his hand,
as though about to hurl it at his foe. Andrés replied several times to these varied attacks
by such rapid and well-directed thrusts, that a less adroit combatant than Juancho would hardly
have parried them. It was truly a fine fight, and worthy a circle of spectators learned in
the art; but, unfortunately, the windows were all closed, and the street was empty. Academicians
of San Lucar, of the Potro of Cordova, of the Albaycin of Granada, and of the barrio of Triana,[12]
why were ye not there to witness the doughty deeds of those valiant champions?

The two champions, vigorous though they were, grew fatigued with such violent exertions; the
sweat streamed from their temples, their breasts heaved like the bellows of a forge, their
feet were heavier on the ground, their movements less elastic. Juancho felt the point of Andrés'
knife pierce his sleeve, and his rage redoubled; with a desperate bound, and at risk of his
life, he sprang, like a panther, upon his enemy. Andrés fell backwards, and, in his fall, burst
open the imperfectly-fastened door of Militona's house, in front of which the duel occurred.
Juancho walked quietly away. The sereno, who just then passed the end of the street, uttered
his monotonous cry;--"Las once y media, y sereno."[13]

In an agony of anxiety, Militona had listened from her window to the noise of this conflict;
she would have called for help, but her tongue clove to her palate, and terror compressed her
throat with its iron fingers. At last, half frantic, and unconscious of what she did, she staggered
downstairs, and reached the door just as it was forced open by the weight of Andrés' inanimate
body.

The next morning, soon after day-break, when the torero, in cloak and slouched hat, walked
into the neighbourhood of the Plaza de Lavapies to hear what was said of the night's events,
he learned, to his intense horror, that Andrés, severely but not mortally wounded, had been
conveyed to Militona's room, and placed in her bed, where he now lay, carefully tended by the
manola, of whose humane and charitable conduct the gossips of the quarter were loud in praise.
When Juancho heard this, his knees shook, and he was forced to support himself against the
wall. His rival in the chamber, and on the bed, of Militona! He could scarcely refrain from
rolling on the ground, and tearing his breast with his nails. Recovering himself, he entered
the house and ascended the stairs with a heavy and sinister-sounding step. "In her chamber!
In her chamber!" he muttered. And, as he spoke, he instinctively opened and shut his long Albacete
knife. On reaching the top of the stairs, he knocked violently at the manola's door.

Andrés started on his bed of suffering; Militona, who was seated near him, turned deadly pale,
and rose to her feet as if impelled by springs. Tia Aldonsa looked horribly frightened, and
devoutly crossed herself. The blow was so imperative as to command attention; a repetition
of the summons would have forced the door from its hinges. With trembling hand Aldonsa opened
the wicket, and beheld Juancho's face at the aperture. Medusa's mask, livid amidst its grim
and snaky locks, could hardly have produced a more terrible effect upon the poor old woman.
Speechless and petrified, she stood with fixed eyeballs, open mouth, and hands extended. True
it was, that the torero's head, seen through the grating, had no very amiable and encouraging
aspect; his eyes were injected with blood; his face was livid, and his cheek-bones, whence
the usual ruddy tinge had fled, formed two white spots in his cadaverous countenance; his distended
nostrils palpitated like those of ferocious beasts that had scent of a prey; his teeth were
pressed upon his lip, which was swollen and bloody from the bite. Jealousy, fury, and revenge
had set their stamp on his distorted features.

"Blessed Lady of Almudena!" muttered the old woman, "deliver us from this peril, and I promise
you a wax taper with a velvet handle."

Courageous as he was, Andrés experienced that uneasy feeling to which the bravest men are subject
when exposed to a danger against which they are defenceless. He mechanically extended his hand
to seek some weapon.

As nobody opened the door, Juancho applied his shoulder to it and gave a push; the planks cracked,
and the plaster crumbled from round the lock and hinges. Then Militona, placing herself before
Andrés, said in a calm and firm voice to the old woman, who was half crazed with terror:

"Aldonsa, open the door; I insist upon it."

Aldonsa drew the bolt, and, standing close to the wall, pulled the door back upon her for protection,
like a helot letting a tiger into the arena, or a servant admitting into the bull-ring some
furious native of Gaviria or Colmenar. Juancho, who expected more resistance, entered slowly,
as if disconcerted by the absence of obstacles. But a single glance at Andrés, stretched in
Militona's bed, brought back all his fury. He seized the door, to which Tia Aldonsa, who thought
her last hour come, clung with all her might, and shutting it in spite of the poor old woman's
efforts, placed his back against it and crossed his arms upon his breast.

"Angels of heaven!" muttered Aldonsa, her teeth chattering with terror, "he will murder us
all three. I will call out of the window."

And she made a step in that direction. But Juancho, guessing her intention, seized her by the
gown, and with a single jerk replaced her against the wall, her skirt half torn off.

"Hag!" he cried, "if you attempt to call out, I will twist your neck like a fowl's, and send
your old soul to the devil. Come not between me and the object of my wrath, or I crush you
on my path."

And he pointed to Andrés, who, pale and feeble, in vain endeavoured to raise his head from
the pillow. It was a horrible situation. No noise had been made that could alarm the neighbours,
who, moreover, would have been more likely to lock themselves in their rooms for fear of Juancho,
than to render assistance. There were no means of apprising the police, or obtaining succour
from without. Poor Andrés, severely wounded, weak from loss of blood, without arms, and unable
to use them had he had any, lay at the mercy of a ruffian intoxicated with rage and jealousy.
All this because he had ogled a pretty manola at a bull-fight. It is allowable to suppose that
at that moment he regretted the tea-table, piano, and prosaic society of Doña Feliciana de
los Rios. Nevertheless, on casting a supplicatory glance at Militona, as if to implore her
not to risk her safety in his defence, he found her so marvellously lovely in her pallor and
emotion, that he could not think her acquaintance dearly purchased even by this great peril.
She stood erect, one hand on the edge of Andrés' bed, whom she seemed resolved to protect,
the other extended towards the door with a gesture of supreme majesty.

"What do you here, murderer?" she cried, in clear and thrilling tones. "You sought a lover;
you find a wounded and helpless man. Begone! Fear you not lest the wound break out afresh at
your presence? Are you not sick of bloodshed? Do you come as an assassin?"

The young girl accentuated the last word in so singular a manner, and accompanied it with so
piercing and terrible a look, that Juancho was embarrassed, reddened, turned pale, and the
ferocity of his countenance was exchanged for an expression of uneasiness. After a pause, he
spoke in a choked and faltering voice.

"Swear, by the relics of Monte Sagrado, and by the image of the Virgin del Pilar, by your dead
father, and your sainted mother, that you do not love this man, and I instantly depart."

Andrés awaited Militona's reply with intense anxiety. She made none. Her long black lashes
drooped over her cheek, which was suffused with a faint tinge of pink. Although this silence
was perhaps his doom to death, Andrés felt his heart leap with joy.

"If you will not swear," continued Juancho, "affirm it. I will believe you; you have never
lied. But if you keep silence, I must kill him." And he approached the bed with uplifted knife.

"You love him?"

"Yes!" exclaimed the young girl, with flashing eyes and a voice trembling with passion and
indignation. "I love him. If he dies on my account, let him know at least that he is beloved.
Let him carry to his grave that word, his consolation and your torture."

With a bound, Juancho stood beside Militona, whose arm he rudely grasped.

"Do not repeat it," he exclaimed, "or I throw you, with my knife in your heart, upon the body
of your minion."

"What care I!" cried the courageous girl. "Think you I will live, if he dies?"

Andrés made a desperate effort to raise himself. He endeavoured to call out; a reddish foam
rose to his lips--his wound had opened. He fell back senseless upon his pillow.

"If you do not depart," cried Militona to the torero, "I hold you vile, base, and a coward.
I believe all that has been said of you; I believe that you could have saved Domingues when
the bull knelt upon his breast, and that you would not, because you were meanly jealous of him."

"Militona! Militona! you have a right to hate me, although never did man love woman as I love
you; but you have no right to despise me. No human power could save Domingues."

"If you would not have me think you an assassin, depart!"

"Yes, I will wait till he is cured," replied Juancho, in a gloomy tone.--"Take good care of
him. I have sworn, that whilst I live, no man shall call you his."

During this stormy scene, old Aldonsa had slipped out to sound an alarm in the neighbourhood.
Five or six men now rushed into the room, seized Juancho and dragged him out with them. But
on the landing-place he shook them from him, as a bull shakes off a pack of dogs, and forcing
his way through all opposition, reached the street and was lost to view in the maze of buildings
that surrounds the Plaza de Lavapies.

The friends of Don Andrés de Salcedo, uneasy at his disappearance, had already applied to the
police to obtain news of his fate. Researches were made, and Argamasilla and Covachuelo, two
of the most wily alguazils of the secret police, at last succeeded in ferreting out traces
of the missing cavalier. Orders were given to arrest Juancho the bull-fighter, on a charge
of assassination. But the Madrid police are not very celebrated for courage and decision, and
the two thief-catchers above named, to whom the execution of the warrant was intrusted, proceeded
on their mission with infinite delicacy, awed by the notorious strength and fierceness of the
torero. Evil tongues were ready to assert that they took considerable pains not to meet with
the man for whose capture they affected to be anxious. At last, however, a clumsy spy reported
to them that the object of their timid researches had just entered the circus with as calm
an air as if he had no crime upon his conscience, or fear of the arm of justice. Argamasilla
and Covachuelo could no longer evade the performance of their duty, and were compelled to betake
themselves to the place pointed out.

The unwelcome information was correct. Juancho had gone to the circus,--driven thither by the
force of habit rather than by any interest in the sport that had once engrossed his thoughts
and energies. Since the terrible scene in Militona's room had convinced him she loved another,
his courage and energy seemed to have deserted him. He was morose, listless, and indifferent
to every thing. Nevertheless he had instinctively wandered down to the bull-ring, to look at
some remarkably fine beasts that had been brought to the stable for the next day's fight. He
was still there, and was walking across the arena, when Argamasilla and Covachuelo arrived
with a little squad of assistants, and Covachuelo, with infinite ceremony and courtesy, informed
Juancho that he was under the painful necessity of conducting him to prison. Juancho shrugged
his shoulders contemptuously and walked on. The alguazil made a sign, and two men laid hands
upon the torero, who brushed them away as though they had been flies upon his sleeve. The whole
band then precipitated themselves upon him; he struggled furiously, and knocked them about
like nine-pins, but, sensible that he must at last be overpowered by numbers, he managed gradually
to get near the toril,[14] and then, shaking off his assailants by a sudden effort, he opened
the door, and took refuge in that dangerous asylum. His enemies endeavoured to follow him,
but whilst they tried to force the door, it suddenly flew open, and a bull, hunted from his
stall by Juancho, dashed with lowered horns and dreadful bellow amongst the terrified troop.
The poor devils had but just time to climb the barriers, and one of them only escaped with
a terrible rent in his lower garments.

This daring proceeding of the besieged greatly disconcerted the besiegers. Nevertheless they
plucked up courage, and, after a while, ventured to return to the charge. This time two bulls
rushed out, and as the police dispersed and got away with all the agility of fear, the wild
animals, seeing no human foes, turned their wrath against each other, crossed their horns,
and with muzzles in the dust of the circus, made furious efforts for mastery.

"Comrade," cried Covachuelo to Juancho, "we know the extent of your ammunition. You have still
five bulls to let off; after that you will be compelled to surrender unconditionally. If you
capitulate and come out at once, I will take you to prison with due regard for your feelings,
without handcuffs, in a coach at your own expense, and will say nothing in my report of the
resistance you have made, which would aggravate your case."

Juancho, careless about his liberty, ceased his defence, and gave himself up to Argamasilla
and Covachuelo, who took him to prison with all the honours of war.

The torero's case was a bad one. The public prosecutor represented the nocturnal combat as
an attempted assassination. Fortunately Andrés, whom a good constitution and Militona's unremitting
care speedily restored to health, interceded for him, representing the affair as a duel, fought
with an unusual weapon certainly, but with one which he could accept, because he was acquainted
with its management. The generous young man, happy in Militona's love, thought poor Juancho
had suffered sufficiently on his account, without being sent to the galleys for a wound now
perfectly healed. Andrés held his present happiness cheaply bought at the price of a stab.
And as a murder can hardly be very severely punished, when the victim is in perfect health
and pleads for his assassin, the result of Salcedo's mediation, and of the interest he made,
was the release of Juancho, who left his prison with the bitter regret of owing his liberty
to the man he most hated upon earth, and from whom he would sooner have died than receive a favour.

"Unhappy wretch that I am!" he exclaimed, when he once more found himself unfettered and in
sunshine. "Henceforward, I must hold this man's life sacred, or deserve the epithet of coward
and villain. Oh! I would a thousand times have preferred the galleys! In ten years I should
have returned and could have revenged myself."

From that day Juancho disappeared. It was said that he had been seen galloping on his famous
black horse in the direction of Andalusia. Be that as it might, he was no more seen in Madrid.

The departure of the bull-fighter was shortly followed by the marriage of Andrés and Militona,
Andrés having been released from his previous engagement with Doña Feliciana de los Rios, who
had discovered, during his illness, that she had in fact very little affection for her betrothed
husband, and had encouraged the attentions of a rich English traveller. The double marriage
took place on the same day and in the same church. Militona had insisted on making her own
wedding dress; it was a masterpiece, and seemed cut out of the leaves of a lily. It was so
well made, that nobody remarked it. Feliciana's dress was extravagantly rich. When they came
out of church, every body said of Feliciana, "What a lovely gown!" and, of Militona, "What
a charming person!"

Two months had elapsed, and Don Andrés de Salcedo and his lady lived in retirement at a delicious
country villa near Granada. With good sense that equalled her beauty, Militona refused to mix
in the society to which her marriage elevated her, until she should have repaired the deficiencies
of an imperfect education. The departure of a friend for the Manillas, compelled her husband
to visit Cadiz, and she accompanied him. They found the Gaditanos raving of a torero who performed
prodigies of skill and courage. Such temerity had never before been witnessed. He gave out
that he came from Lima in South America, and was then engaged at Puerto-de-Santa-Maria. Thither
Andre's, who felt his old tauromachian ardour revive at the report of such prowess, persuaded
his wife to accompany him, and at the appointed hour they took their places in a box at the
circus. On all sides they heard praises of this famous torero. His incredible feats were in
every body's mouth, and all declared that if he was not killed, he would very soon eclipse
the fame of the great Montés himself.

The fight began, and the torero made his appearance. He was dressed in black; his vest, garnished
with ornaments of silk and jet, had a sombre richness harmonizing with the wild and almost
sinister countenance of its wearer; a yellow sash was twisted round his meagre person, which
seemed composed solely of bone and muscle. His dark countenance was traversed by furrows, traced,
as it seemed, rather by the hand of care than by lapse of years; for although youth had disappeared
from his features, middle age had not yet set its stamp upon them. There was something in the
face and figure of the man which Audrés thought he remembered; but he could not call to mind
when or where he had seen him. Militona, on the other hand, did not doubt for an instant. In
spite of his small resemblance to his former self, she at once recognised Juancho.

The terrible change wrought in so short a time had something that alarmed her. It proved how
terrible was the passion that had thus played havoc with this man of iron frame.

Hastily opening her fan to conceal her face, she said to Andrés in a hurried voice:

"It is Juancho."

But her movement was too late; the torero had seen her; with his hand he waved a salutation.

"Juancho it really is!" cried Andrés; "the poor fellow is sadly changed; he has grown ten years
older. Ah! he is the new torero, of whom they talk so much: he has returned to the bull-ring."

"Let us go, Andrés," said Militona to her husband. "I know not why, but I am very uneasy; I
feel sure something will happen."

"What can happen," replied Andrés, "except the death of horses and the fall of a few picadores?"

"I fear lest Juancho should commit some extravagance,--some furious act."

"You cannot forget that unlucky stab, or lucky one, I should rather call it, since to it I
owe my present happiness." And Andrés tenderly pressed the hand of his bride, to whose cheeks
the blood that for an instant had left them, now began to return. "If you knew Latin--which
you fortunately do not--I would tell you that the law of non bis in idem guarantees my safety.
Besides the honest fellow has had time to calm himself."

Juancho performed prodigies. He behaved as if invulnerable; took bulls by the tail and made
them waltz, put his foot between their horns and leaped over them, tore off the ribbons with
which they were adorned, planted himself right in their path and harassed them with unparalleled
audacity. The delighted spectators were outrageous in their applause, and swore that such a
bull-fight had never been witnessed since the days of the Cid Campeador. The other bull-fighters,
electrified by the example of their chief, seemed equally reckless of danger. The picadores
advanced to the very centre of the circus, the banderillos drove their darts into the flanks
of the bull without once missing. When any of them were hard pressed, Juancho was ever at hand,
prompt to distract the attention of the furious beast, and draw its anger on himself. One of
the chulos fell, and would have been ripped from navel to chin, had not Juancho, at risk of
his life, forced the bull from its victim. Every thrust he gave was delivered with such skill
and force that the sword entered exactly between the shoulders, and disappeared to the hilt.
The bulls fell at his feet as though struck by lightning, and a second blow was never once
required.

"Caramba!" exclaimed Andrés, "Montes, the Chiclanero, Arjona, Labi, and the rest of them, had
better take care; Juancho will excel them all, if he has not done so already."

But such exploits as these were not destined to be repeated; Juancho attained that day the
highest sublimity of the art; he did things that will never be done again. Militona herself
could not help applauding; Andrés was wild with delight and admiration; the delirium was at
its height; frantic acclamations greeted every movement of Juancho.

The sixth bull was let into the arena.

Then an extraordinary and unheard-of thing occurred: Juancho, after playing the bull and manoeuvring
his cloak with consummate dexterity, took his sword, and, instead of plunging it into the animal's
neck, as was expected, hurled it from him with such force, that it turned over and over in
the air, and stuck deep in the ground at the other end of the circus.

"What is he about," was shouted on all sides. "This is madness--not courage! What new scheme
is this? Will he kill the bull with his bare hands?"

Juancho cast one look at Militona--one ineffable look of love and suffering. Then he remained
motionless before the bull. The beast lowered its head. One of its horns entered the breast
of the man, and came out red to the very root. A shriek of horror from a thousand voices rent
the sky.

Militona fell back upon her chair in a deathlike swoon.

FOOTNOTES:

[11] Sombra por la tarde,--"shade for the afternoon." The tickets for the bull-fight vary in
value according as they are for the sunny or shady side of the arena.

[12] Places of bad fame in the respective towns, frequented by thieves and suspicious characters.

[13] "Half-past eleven, and a fine night."

[14] The stable where the bulls are kept.

THE EMERALD STUDS.

A REMINISCENCE OF THE CIRCUIT.

CHAPTER I.

"Hallo, Tom! Are you not up yet? Why, man, the judges have gone down to the court half an hour
ago, escorted by the most ragged regiment of ruffians that ever handled a Lochaber-axe."

Such was my matutinal salutation to my friend Thomas Strachan, as I entered his room on a splendid
spring morning. Tom and I were early college allies. We had attended, or rather, to speak more
correctly, taken out tickets for the different law classes during the same sessions. We had
fulminated together within the walls of the Juridical Society on legal topics which might have
broken the heart of Erskine, and rewarded ourselves diligently thereafter with the usual relaxations
of a crab and a comfortable tumbler. We had aggravated the same grinder with our deplorable
exposition of the Pandects, and finally assumed, on the same day, the full-blown honours of
the Advocate's wig and gown. Nor did our fraternal parallel end there: for although we had
walked the boards of the Parliament House with praiseworthy diligence for a couple of sessions,
neither of us had experienced the dulcet sensation which is communicated to the palm by the
contact of the first professional guinea. In vain did we attempt to insinuate ourselves into
the good graces of the agents, and coin our intellects into such jocular remarks, as are supposed
to find most favour in the eyes of facetious practitioners. In vain did I carry about with
me, for a whole week, an artificial process most skilfully made up; and in vain did Tom compound
and circulate a delectable ditty, entitled, "The Song of the Multiplepoinding." Not a single
solicitor would listen to our wooing, or even intrust us with the task of making the simplest
motion. I believe they thought me too fast, and Tom too much of a genius: and, therefore, both
of us were left among the ranks of the briefless army of the stove. This would not do. Our
souls burned within us with a noble thirst for legal fame and fees. We held a consultation
(without an agent) at the Rainbow, and finally determined that since Edinburgh would not hear
us, Jedburgh should have the privilege of monopolising our maiden eloquence at the ensuing
justiciary circuit. Jedburgh presents a capital field to the ambition of a youthful advocate.
Very few counsel go that way; the cases are usually trifling, and the juries easily bamboozled.
It has besides this immense advantage--that should you by any accident happen to break down,
nobody will in all probability be the wiser for it, provided you have the good sense to ingratiate
yourself with the circuit-clerk.

Tom and I arrived at Jedburgh the afternoon before the circuit began. I was not acquainted
with a human being within the parliamentary boundaries of that respectable borough, and therefore
experienced but a slight spasm of disappointment when informed by the waiter at the inn, that
no inquiries had yet been made after me, on the part of writers desirous of professional assistance.
Strachan had been wiser. Somehow or other, he had gotten a letter of introduction to one Bailie
Beerie, a notable civic dignitary of the place; and accordingly, on presenting his credentials,
was invited by that functionary to dinner, with a hint that he "might maybe see a wheen real
leddies in the evening." This pointed so plainly to a white choker and dress boots, that Strachan
durst not take the liberty of volunteering the attendance of his friend; and accordingly I
had been left alone to wile away, as I best might, the tedium of a sluggish evening. Before
starting, however, Tom pledged himself to return in time for supper; as he entertained a painful
conviction that the party would be excessively slow.

So long as it was light, I amused myself pretty well, by strolling along the banks of the river,
and enunciating a splendid speech for the pannel in an imaginary case of murder. However, before
I reached the peroration, (which was to consist of a vivid picture of the deathbed of a despairing
jury-man, conscience-stricken by the recollection of an erroneous verdict,) the shades of evening
began to close in; the trouts ceased to leap in the pool, and the rooks desisted from their
cawing. I returned to discuss my solitary mutton at the inn; and then, having nothing to do,
sat down to a moderate libation, and an odd number of the Temperance Magazine, which valuable
tract had been left for the reformation of the traveller by some peripatetic disciple of Father
Mathew.

Nine o'clock came, but so did not Strachan. I began to wax wroth, muttered anathemas against
my faithless friend, rang for the waiter, and--having ascertained the fact that a Masonic Lodge
was that evening engaged in celebrating the festival of its peculiar patron--I set out for
the purpose of assisting in the pious and mystic labours of the Brethren of the Jedburgh St
Jeremy. At twelve, when I returned to my quarters, escorted by the junior deacon, I was informed
that Strachan had not made his appearance, and accordingly I went to bed.

Next morning, I found Tom, as already mentioned, in his couch. There was a fine air of negligence
in the manner in which his habiliments were scattered over the room. One glazed boot lay within
the fender, whilst the other had been chucked into a coal-scuttle; and there were evident marks
of mud on the surface of his glossy kerseymeres. Strachan himself looked excessively pale,
and the sole rejoinder he made to my preliminary remark was, a request for soda-water.

"Tom," said I, inexpressibly shocked at the implied confession of the nature of his vespers--"I
wonder you are not ashamed of yourself! Have you no higher regard for the dignity of the bar
you represent, than to expose yourself before a Jedburgh Bailie?"

"Dignity be hanged!" replied the incorrigible Strachan. "Bailie Beerie is a brick, and I won't
hear a word against him. But, O Fred! if you only knew what you missed last night! Such a splendid
woman--by Jove, sir, a thoroughbred angel. A bust like one of Titian's beauties, and the voice
of a lovelorn nightingale!"

"One of the Misses Beerie, I presume. Come, Tom, I think I can fill up your portrait. Hair
of the auburn complexion, slightly running into the carrot--skin fair, but freckled--greenish
eyes--red elbows--culpable ankles--elephantine waist--and sentiments savouring of the Secession."

"Ring the bell for the waiter, and hold your impious tongue. You never were farther from the
mark in your life. The wing of the raven is not more glossy than her hair--and oh, the depth
and melting lustre of those dark unfathomable eyes! Waiter! a bottle of soda-water, and you
may put in a thimbleful of cognac."

"Come, Tom!--none of your ravings. Is this an actual Armida, or a new freak of your own imagination?"

"Bonâ fide--an angel in every thing, barring the wings."

"Then how the deuce did such a phenomenon happen to emerge at the Bailie's?"

"That's the very question I was asking myself during the whole time of dinner. She was clearly
not a Scotswoman. When she spoke, it was in the sweet low accents of a southern clime, and
she waved away the proffered haggis with an air of the prettiest disgust!"

"But the Bailie knew her?"

"Of course he did. I got the whole story out of him after dinner, and, upon my honour, I think
it is the most romantic one I have ever heard. About a week ago, the lady arrived here without
attendants. Some say she came in the mail-coach--others in a dark travelling chariot and pair.
However, what matters it? the jewel can derive no lustre or value from the casket!"

"Yes--but one always likes to have some kind of idea of the setting. Get on."

"She seemed in great distress, and inquired whether there were any letters at the post-office
addressed to the Honourable Dorothea Percy. No such epistle was to be found. She then interrogated
the landlord, whether an elderly lady, whose appearance she minutely described, had been seen
in the neighbourhood of Jedburgh; but except old Mrs Slammingham of Summertrees, who has been
bed-ridden for years, there was nobody in the county who at all answered to the description.
On hearing this, the lady seemed profoundly agitated--shut herself up in a private parlour,
and refused all sustenance."

"Had she not a reticule with sandwiches, Tom?"

"Do not tempt me to commit justifiable homicide--you see I am in the act of shaving.--At last
the landlady, who is a most respectable person, and who felt deeply interested at the desolate
situation of the poor young lady, ventured to solicit an interview. She was admitted. There
are moments when the sympathy of even the humblest friend is precious. Miss Percy felt grateful
for the interest so displayed, and confided the tale of her griefs to the matronly bosom of
the hostess."

"And she told you?

"No,--but she told Bailie Beerie. That active magistrate thought it his duty to interfere.
He waited upon Miss Percy, and from her lips he gathered the full particulars of her history.
Percy is not her real name, but she is the daughter of an English peer of very ancient family.
Her father having married a second time, Dorothea was exposed to the persecutions of a low-minded
vulgar woman, whose whole ideas were of that mean and mercenary description which characterise
the Caucasian race. Naomi Shekles was the offspring of a Jew, and she hated, whilst she envied,
the superior charms of the noble Norman maiden. But she had gained an enormous supremacy over
the wavering intellect of the elderly Viscount; and Dorothea was commanded to receive, with
submission, the addressses of a loathsome apostate, who had made a prodigious fortune in the
railways."

"One of the tribe of Issachar?"

"Exactly. A miscreant whose natural function was the vending of cast habiliments. Conceive,
Fred, what the fair young creature must have felt at the bare idea of such shocking spousals!
She besought, prayed, implored,--but all in vain. Mammon had taken too deep a root in the paternal
heart,--the old coronet had been furbished up by means of Israelitish gold, and the father
could not see any degradation in forcing upon his child an alliance similar to his own."

"You interest me excessively."

"Is it not a strange tale?" continued Thomas, adjusting a false collar round his neck. "I knew
you would agree with me when I came to the pathetic part. Well, Fred, the altar was decked,
the ornaments ready, the Rabbi bespoke----"

"Do you mean to say, Strachan, that Lady Dorothea was to have been married after the fashion
of the Jews?"

"I don't know exactly. I think Beerie said it was a Rabbi; but that may have been a flight
of his own imagination. However, somebody was ready to have tied the nuptial knot, and all
the joys of existence, and its hopes, were about to fade for ever from the vision of my poor
Dorothea!"

"Your Dorothea!" cried I in amazement. "Why, Tom--you don't mean to insinuate that you have
gone that length already?"

"Did I say mine?" repeated Strachan, looking somewhat embarrassed. "It was a mere figure of
speech: you always take one up so uncommonly short.--Nothing remained for her but flight, or
submission to the Cruel mandate. Like a heroic girl, in whose veins the blood of the old crusaders
was bounding, she preferred the former alternative. The only relation whom she could apply
in so delicate, a juncture, was an aged aunt, residing somewhere in the north of Scotland.
To her she wrote, beseeching her, as she regarded the memory of her buried sister, to receive
her miserable child; and she appointed this town, Jedburgh, as the place of meeting."

"But where's the aunt?"

"That's just the mysterious part of the business. The crisis was so imminent that Dorothea
could not wait for a reply. She disguised herself,--packed up a few jewels which had been bequeathed
to her by her mother,--and, at the dead of night, escaped from her father's mansion. Judge
of her terror when, on arriving here, panting and perhaps pursued, she could obtain no trace
whatever of her venerable relative. Alone, inexperienced and unfriended, I tremble to think
what might have been her fate, had it not been for the kind humanity of Beerie."

"And what was the Bailie's line of conduct?"

"He behaved to her, Fred, like a parent. He supplied her wants, and invited her to make his
house her home, at least until the aunt should appear. But the noble creature would not subject
herself to the weight of so many obligations. She accepted, indeed, his assistance, but preferred
remaining here, until she could place herself beneath legitimate guardianship. And doubtless,"
continued Strachan with fervour, "her good angel is watching over her."

"And this is the whole story?"

"The whole."

"Do you know, Tom, it looks uncommonly like a piece of deliberate humbug!"

"Your ignorance misleads you, Fred. You would not say so had you seen her. So sweet--so gentle--with
such a tinge of melancholy resignation in her eye, like that of a virgin martyr about to suffer
at the stake! No one could look upon her for a moment, and doubt her purity and truth."

"Perhaps. But you must allow that we are not living exactly in the ages of romance. An elopement
with an officer of dragoons is about the farthest extent of legitimate enterprise which is
left to a modern damsel; and, upon my word, I think the story would have told better, had some
such hero been inserted as a sort of counterpoise to the Jew. But what's the matter? Have you
lost any thing?"

"It is very odd!" said Strachan, "I am perfectly certain that I had on my emerald studs last
night. I recollect that Dorothea admired them exceedingly. Where on earth can I have put them?"

"I don't know, I'm sure. I suspect, Tom, you and the Bailie were rather convivial after supper.
Is your watch wound up?"

"Of course it is. I assure you you are quite wrong. It was a mere matter of four or five tumblers.
Very odd this! Why--I can't find my watch neither!"

"Hallo! what the deuce! Have we fallen into a den of thieves? This is a nice beginning to our
circuit practice."

"I could swear, Fred, that I put it below my pillow before I went to sleep. I remember, now,
that it was some time before I could fit in the key. What can have become of it?"

"And you have not left your room since?"

"No, on my word of honour!"

"Pooh--pooh! Then it can't possibly be gone. Look beneath the bolster."

But in vain did we search beneath bolster, mattress, and blankets; yea, even downwards to the
fundamental straw. Not a trace was to be seen of Cox Savory's horizontal lever, jewelled, as
Tom pathetically remarked, in four special holes, and warranted to go for a year without more
than a minute's deviation. Neither were the emerald studs, the pride of Strachan's heart, forthcoming.
Boots, chamber-maid, and waiter were collectively summoned--all assisted in the search, and
all asseverated their own integrity.

"Are ye sure, sir, that ye brocht them hame?" said the waiter, an acute lad, who had served
his apprenticeship at a commercial tavern in the Gorbals; "Ye was gey an' fou when ye cam in
here yestreen."

"What do you mean, you rascal?"

"Ye ken ye wadna gang to bed till ye had anither tumbler."

"Don't talk trash! It was the weakest cold-without in the creation."

"And then ye had a sair fecht on politics wi' anither man in the coffee-room."

"Ha! I remember now--the bagman, who is a member of the League! Where is the commercial villain?"

"He gaed aff at sax preceesely, this morning, in his gig, to Kelso."

"Then, by the head of Thistlewood!" cried Strachan, frantically, "my ticker will be turned
into tracts against the corn-laws!"

"Hoot na!" said the waiter, "I canna think that. He looked an unco respectable-like man."

"No man can be respectable," replied the aristocratic Thomas, "who sports such infernal opinions
as I heard him utter last night. My poor studs! Fred.--they were a gift from Mary Rivers before
we quarreled, and I would not have lost them for the universe! Only think of them being exposed
for sale at a free-trade bazar!"

"Come, Tom--they may turn up yet."

"Never in this world, except at a pawnbroker's. I could go mad to think that my last memorial
of Mary is in all probability glittering in the unclean shirt of a bagman!"

"Had you not better apply to the Fiscal?"

"For what purpose? Doubtless the scoundrel has driven off to the nearest railway, and is triumphantly
counting the mile-posts as he steams to his native Leeds. No, Fred. Both watch and studs are
gone beyond the hope of redemption."

"The loss is certainly a serious one."

"No doubt of it: but a thought strikes me. You recollect the edict, nautae, caupones, stabularii?
I have not studied the civil law for nothing and am clearly of opinion, that in such a case
the landlord is liable."

"By Jove! I believe you are right. But it would be as well to turn up Shaw and Dunlop for a
precedent before you make any row about it. Besides, it may be rather difficult to establish
that you lost them at the inn."

"If they only refer the matter to my oath, I can easily settle that point," replied Strachan.
"Besides, now that I think of it, Miss Percy can speak to the watch. She asked me what o'clock
it was just before we parted on the stairs."

"Eh, what! Is the lady in this house?"

"To be sure--did I not tell you so?"

"I say, Tom--couldn't you contrive to let one have a peep at this angel of yours?"

"Quite impossible. She is the shyest creature in the world, and would shrink from the sight
of a stranger."

"But, my dear Tom----"

"I can't do it, I tell you; so it's no use asking me."

"Well, I must say you are abominably selfish. But what on earth are you going to do with that
red and blue Joinville? You can't go down to court without a white neckcloth."

"I am not going down to court."

"Why, my good fellow! what on earth is the meaning of this?"

"I am not going down to court, that's all. I say, Fred, how do I look in this sort of thing?"

"Uncommonly like a cock-pheasant in full plumage. But tell me what you mean?"

"Why, since you must needs know, I am going up stairs to breakfast with Miss Percy."

So saying, Mr Strachan made me a polite bow, and left the apartment. I took my solitary way
to the courthouse, marvelling at the extreme rapidity of the effect which is produced by the
envenomed darts of Cupid.

CHAPTER II.

On entering the court, I found that the business had commenced. An enormous raw-boned fellow,
with a shock of the fieriest hair, and hands of such dimensions that a mere glimpse of them
excited unpleasant sensations at your windpipe, was stationed at the bar, to which, from previous
practice, he had acquired a sort of prescriptive right.

"James M'Wilkin, or Wilkinson, or Wilson," said the presiding judge, in a tone of disgust which
heightened with each successive alias, "attend to the indictment which is about to be preferred
against you."

And certainly, if the indictment contained a true statement of the facts, James M'Wilkin, or
Wilkinson, or Wilson was about as thoroughpaced a marauder as ever perambulated a common. He
was charged with sheep-stealing and assault; inasmuch as, on a certain night subsequent to
the Kelso fair, he, the said individual with the plural denominations, did wickedly and feloniously
steal, uplift, and away take from a field adjoining to the Northumberland road, six wethers,
the property, or in the lawful possession of, Jacob Gubbins, grazier, then and now or lately
residing in Morpeth; and moreover, on being followed by the said Gubbins, who demanded restitution
of his property, he, the said M'Wilkin, &c., had, in the most brutal manner, struck, knocked
down, and lavished divers kicks upon the corporality of the Northumbrian bumpkin, to the fracture
of three of his ribs, and otherwise, to the injury of his person.

During the perusal of this formidable document by the clerk, M'Wilkin stood scratching his
poll, and leering about him as though he considered the whole ceremony as a sort of solemn
joke. I never in the course of my life cast eyes on a more nonchalant or unmitigated ruffian.

"How do you say, M'Wilkin," asked the judge; "are you guilty or not guilty?"

"Not guilty, aff course. D'ye tak me for a fule?" and M'Wilkin flounced down upon his seat,
as though he had been an ornament to society.

"Have you a counsel?" asked the judge.

"De'il ane--nor a bawbee," replied the freebooter.

Acting upon the noble principle of Scottish jurisprudence, that no man shall undergo his trial
without sufficient legal advice, his lordship in the kindest manner asked me to take charge
of the fortunes of the forlorn M'Wilkin. Of course I made no scruples; for, so long as it was
matter of practice, I should have felt no hesitation in undertaking the defence of Beelzebub.
I therefore leaned across the dock, and exchanged a few hurried sentences with my first client.

"Why don't you plead guilty?"

"What for? I've been here before. Man, I'm thinking ye're a saft ane!"

"Did you not steal the sheep."'

"Ay--that's just the question. Let them find that out."

"But the grazier saw you?"

"I blackened his e'es."

"You'll be transported to a dead certainty."

"Deevil a fears, if ye're worth the price o' half a mutchkin. I'm saying--get me a Hawick jury,
and it's a' richt. They ken me gey and weel thereabouts."

Although I was by no means satisfied in my own mind that an intimate acquaintance with M'Wilkin
and his previous pursuits would be a strong recommendation in his favour to any possible assize,
I thought it best to follow his instructions, and managed my challenges so well that I secured
a majority of Hawickers. The jury being sworn in, the cause proceeded; and certainly, before
three witnesses had been examined, it appeared to me beyond all manner of doubt, that, in the
language of Tom Campbell, my unfortunate client was

     "Doom'd the long coves of Sydney isle to see,"

as a permanent addition to that cultivated and Patagonian population. The grazier stood to
his story like a man, and all efforts to break him down by cross-examination were fruitless.
There was also another hawbuck who swore to the sheep, and was witness to the assault; so that,
in fact, the evidence was legally complete.

Whilst I was occupied in the vain attempt to make Gubbins contradict himself, there had been
a slight commotion in the court-room. On looking round afterwards, I was astonished to behold
my friend Strachan seated in the magistrate's box, next to a very pretty and showily-dressed
woman, to whom he was paying the most marked and deliberate attention. On the other side of
her was an individual in a civic chain, whose fat, pursy, apoplectic appearance, and nose of
the colour of an Orleans plum, thoroughly realised my mental picture of the Bailie. His small,
blood-shot eyes twinkled with magisterial dignity and importance; and he looked, beside Miss
Percy--for I could not doubt that it was she--like a satyr in charge of Florimel.

The last witness for the crown, a very noted police officer from Glasgow, was then put into
the box, to prove a previous conviction against my friend M'Wilkin. This man bore a high reputation
in his calling, and was, indeed, esteemed as a sort of Scottish Vidocq, who knew by headmark
every filcher of a handkerchief between Caithness and the Border. He met the bold broad stare
of the prisoner with a kind of nod, as much as to assure him that his time was very nearly
up; and then deliberately proceeded to take a hawk's-eye view of the assembly. I noticed a
sort of quiet sneer as he glanced at the Magistrate's box.

"Poor Strachan!" thought I. "His infatuation must indeed be palpable, since even a common officer
can read his secret in a moment."

I might just as well have tried to shake Ailsa Craig as to make an impression upon this witness;
however, heroically devoted to my trust, I hazarded the attempt, and ended by bringing out
several additional tales of turpitude in the life and times of M'Wilkin.

"Make room there in the passage! The lady has fainted," cried the macer.

I started to my feet, and was just in time to see Miss Percy conveyed from the court in an
apparently inanimate state, by the Bailie and the agitated Strachan.

"Devilish fine-looking woman that!" observed the Advocate-Depute across the table. "Where did
your friend Mr Strachan get hold of her?"

"I really don't know. I say--are you going to address the jury for the crown?"

"It is quite immaterial. The case is distinctly proved, and I presume you don't intend to speak?"

"I'm not so sure of that."

"Oh, well,--in that case I suppose I must say a word or two. This closes the evidence for the
crown, my lord," and the Depute began to turn over his papers preparatory to a short harangue.

He had just commenced his speech, when I felt a hand laid upon my shoulder. I looked around:
Strachan was behind me, pale and almost breathless with excitement.

"Fred--can I depend upon your friendship?"

"Of course you can. What's the row?"

"Have you ten pounds about you?"

"Yes--but what do you mean to do with them? Surely you are not going to make a blockhead of
yourself by bolting?"

"No--no! give me the money--quick!"

"On your word of honour, Tom?"

"On my sacred word of honour!--That's a good fellow--thank you, Fred;" and Strachen pocketed
the currency. "Now," said he, "I have just one other request to make."

"What's that?"

"Speak against time, there's a dear fellow! Spin out the case as long as you can, and don't
let the jury retire for at least three quarters of an hour. I know you can do it better than
any other man at the bar."

"Are you in earnest, Tom?"

"Most solemnly. My whole future happiness--nay, perhaps the life of a human being depends upon it."

"In that case I think I shall tip them an hour."

"Heaven reward you, Fred! I never can forget your kindness!"

"But where shall I see you afterwards?"

"At the hotel. Now, my dear boy, be sure that you pitch it in, and, if possible, get the judge
to charge after you. Time's all that's wanted--adieu!" and Tom disappeared in a twinkling.

I had little leisure to turn over the meaning of this interview in my mind, for the address
of my learned opponent was very short and pithy. He merely pointed out the clear facts, as
substantiated by evidence, and brought home to the unhappy M'Wilkin; and concluded by demanding
a verdict on both charges contained in the indictment against the prisoner.

"Do you wish to say any thing, sir?" said the judge to me, with a kind of tone which indicated
his hope that I was going to say nothing. Doubtless his lordship thought that, as a very young
counsel, I would take the hint; but he was considerably mistaken in his man. I came to the
bar for practice--I went on the circuit with the solemn determination to speak in every case,
however desperate; and it needed not the admonition of Strachan to make me carry my purpose
into execution. What did I care about occupying the time of the court? His lordship was paid
to listen, and could very well afford to hear the man who was pleading for M'Wilkin without
a fee. I must say, however, that he looked somewhat disgusted when I rose.

A first appearance is a nervous thing, but there is nothing like going boldly at your subject.
"Fiat experimentum in corpore vili," is a capital maxim in the Justiciary Court. The worse
your case, the less chance you have to spoil it; and I never had a worse than M'Wilkin's.

I began by buttering the jury on their evident intelligence and the high functions they had
to discharge, which of course were magnified to the skies. I then went slap-dash at the evidence;
and, as I could say nothing in favour of my client, directed a tremendous battery of abuse
and insinuation against his accuser.

"And who is this Gubbins, gentlemen, that you should believe this most incredible, most atrocious,
and most clumsy apocrypha of his? I will tell you. He is an English butcher--a dealer in cattle
and in bestial--one of those men who derive their whole subsistence from the profits realised
by the sale of our native Scottish produce. This is the way in which our hills are depopulated,
and our glens converted into solitudes. It is for him and his confederates--not for us--that
our shepherds watch and toil, that our herds and flocks are reared, that the richness of the
land is absorbed! And who speaks to the character of this Gubbins? You have heard the pointless
remarks made by my learned friend upon the character of my unfortunate client; but he has not
dared to adduce in this court one single witness in behalf of the character of his witness.
Gentlemen, he durst not do it! Gubbins has deponed to you that he bought those sheep at the
fair of Kelso, from a person of the name of Shiells, and that he paid the money for them. Where
is the evidence of that? Where is Shiells to tell us whether he actually sold these sheep,
or whether on the contrary they were not stolen from him? Has it been proved to you, gentlemen,
that M'Wilkin is not a friend of Shiells--that he did not receive notice of the theft--that
he did not pursue the robber, and, recognising the stolen property by their mark, seize them
for the benefit of their owner? No such proof at least has been led upon the part of the crown,
and in the absence of it, I ask you fearlessly, whether you can possibly violate your consciences
by returning a verdict of guilty? Is it not possible--nay, is it not extremely probable, that
Gubbins was the actual thief? Was it not his interest, far more than M'Wilkin's, to abstract
those poor unhappy sheep, because it is avowedly his trade to fill the insatiable maw of the
Southron? And in that case, who should be at the bar? Gubbins! Gubbins, I say, who this day
has the unparalleled audacity to appear before an enlightened Scottish jury, and to give evidence
which, in former times, might have led to the awful consequence of the execution of an innocent
man! And this is what my learned friend calls evidence! Evidence to condemn a fellow-countryman,
gentlemen? No--not to condemn a dog!"

Having thus summarily disposed of Gubbins, I turned my artillery against the attendant drover
and the policeman. The first I indignantly denounced as either an accomplice or a tool: the
second I smote more severely. Policemen are not popular in Hawick; and, knowing this, I contrived
to blacken the Scottish Vidocq as a bloodhound.

But by far the finest flight of fancy in which I indulged was reserved for the peroration.
I was not quite sure of the effect of my commentary on the evidence, and therefore thought
it might be advisable to touch upon a national raw.

"And now, gentlemen," said I, "assuming for one moment that all my learned friend has said
to you is true--that the sheep really belonged to this Gubbins, and were taken from him by
M'Wilkin--let us calmly and deliberately consider how far such a proceeding can be construed
into a crime. What has my unfortunate client done that he should be condemned by a jury of
his countrymen? What he stands charged with is simply this--that he has prevented an Englishman
from driving away the produce of our native hills. And is this a crime? It may be so, for aught
I know, by statute; but sure I am, that in the intention, to which alone you must look, there
lies a far deeper element of patriotism than of deliberate guilt. Think for one moment, gentlemen,
of the annals of which we are so proud--of the ballads still chanted in the hall and in the
hamlet--of the lonely graves and headstones that are scattered all along the surface of the
southern muirs. Do not these annals tell us how the princes and the nobles of the land were
wont to think it neither crime nor degradation to march with their retainers across the Borders,
and to harry with fire and sword the fields of Northumberland and Durham? Randolph and the
Bruce have done it, and yet no one dares to attach the stigma of dishonour to their names.
Do not our ballads tell how at Lammas-tide,

     'The doughty Earl of Douglas rade
     Into England to fetch a prey?'

And who shall venture to impeach the honour of the hero who fell upon the field of Otterbourne?
Need I remind you of those who have died in their country's cause, and whose graves are still
made the object of many a pious pilgrimage? Need I speak of Flodden, that woful place where
the Flowers of the Forest were left lying in one ghastly heap around their king? Ah, gentlemen!
have I touched you now? True, it was in the Olden time that these things were done and celebrated;
but remember this, that society may change its place, states and empires may rise and be consolidated,
but patriotism still lives enduring and undying as of yore! And who shall dare to say that
patriotism was not the motive of M'Wilkin? Who shall presume to analyse or to blame the instinct
which may have driven him to the deed? Call him not a felon--call him rather a poet; for over
his kindling imagination fell the mighty shadow of the past. Old thoughts, old feelings, old
impulses, were burning in his soul. He saw in Gubbins, not the grazier, but the lawless spoiler
of his country; and he rose, as a Borderer should, to vindicate the honour of his race. He
may have been mistaken in what he did, but the motive, at least, was pure. Honour it then,
gentlemen, for it is the same motive which is at all times the best safeguard of a nation's
independence; and do honour likewise to yourselves by pronouncing a unanimous verdict of acquittal
in favour of the prisoner at the bar!"

By the time I had finished this harangue, I was wrought up to such a pitch of enthusiasm, that
I really considered M'Wilkin in the light of an extremely ill-used individual, and the tears
stood in my eyes as I recapitulated the history of his wrongs. Several of the jury, too, began
to get extremely excited, and looked as fierce as falcons when I reminded them of the field
of Flodden. But my hopes were considerably damped when I heard the charge of his lordship.
With all respect for the eminent Senator who that day presided on the bench, I think he went
rather too far when he designated my maiden-effort a rhapsody which could only be excused on
account of the inexperience of the gentleman who uttered it. Passing from that unpleasant style
of stricture, he went seriatim over all the crimes of M'Wilkin, and very distinctly indicated
his opinion that a more consummate ruffian had seldom figured in the dock. When he concluded,
however, there was a good deal of whispering in the jury-box, and at last the gentlemen of
the assize requested permission to retire.

"That was a fine flare-up of yours, Freddy," said Anthony Whaup, the only other counsel for
the prisoners upon the circuit. "You came it rather strong, though, in the national line. I
don't think our venerable friend overhead half likes your ideas of international law."

"Why, yes--I confess he gave me a tolerable wigging. But what would you have me do? I must
have said something."

"Oh, by Jove, you were perfectly right! I always make a point of speaking myself; and I can
assure you that you did remarkably well. It was a novel view, but decidedly ingenious, and
may lead to great results. If that fellow gets off, you may rely upon it there will be some
bloodshed again upon the Border."

"And a jolly calendar, of course, for next circuit. I say, Authony,--how many cases have you got?"

"Two thefts with habit and repute, a hame-sucken, rather a good forgery, and an assault with
intent to commit."

"Long?"

"Rather--but poor pay. I haven't sacked more than nine guineas altogether. Gad!" continued
Anthony, stretching himself, "this is slow work. I'd rather by a great deal be rowing on the
canal."

"Hush! here come the jury."

They entered, took their seats, and each man in succession answered to his name. I stole a
glance at M'Wilkin. He looked as leonine as ever, and kept winking perseveringly to the Hawickers.

"Now, gentlemen," said the clerk of court, "what is your verdict?"

The foreman rose.

"The jury, by a majority, find the charges against the prisoner NOT PROVEN."

"Hurrah!" shouted M'Wilkin, reckless of all authority. "Hurrah! I say--you counsellor in the
wig--ye shanna want a sheep's head thae three years, if there's ane to be had on the Border!"

And in this way I gained my first acquittal.

CHAPTER III.

I found Strachan in his room with his face buried in the bed-clothes. He was kicking his legs
as though he suffered under a violent fit of the toothache.

"I say, Tom, what's the matter? Look up, man! Do you know I've got that scoundrel off?"

No answer.

"Tom, I say! Tom, you dunderhead--what do you mean by making an ass of yourself this way? Get
up, for shame, and answer me!"

Poor Strachan raised his head from the coverlet. His eyes were absolutely pink, and his cheeks
of the tint of a lemon.

"O Fred, Fred!" said he with a series of interjectional gasps. "I am the most unfortunate wretch
in the universe. All the hopes I had formerly cherished are blighted at once in the bud! She
is gone, my friend--gone away from me, and, alas! I fear for ever!

"The deuce she has! and how?"

"Oh what madness tempted me to lead her to the court?--what infatuation it was to expose those
angelic features to the risk of recognition! Who that ever saw those dove-like eyes could forget
them?"

"I have no objection to the eyes--they were really very passable. But who twigged her?"

"An emissary of her father's--that odious miscreant who was giving evidence at the trial."

"The policeman? Whew! Tom!--I don't like that."

"He was formerly the land-steward of the Viscount;--a callous, cruel wretch, who was more than
suspected of having made away with his wife."

"And did he recognise her?"

"Dorothea says that she felt fascinated by the glitter of his cold gray eye. A shuddering sensation
passed through her frame, just as the poor warbler of the woods quivers at the approach of
the rattle-snake. A dark mist gathered before her sight, and she saw no more until she awoke
to consciousness within my arms."

"Very pretty work, truly! And what then?"

"In great agitation, she told me that she durst tarry no longer here. She was certain that
the officer would make it his business to track her, and communicate her hiding-place to her
family; and she shook with horror when she thought of the odious Israelitish bridegroom. 'The
caverns of the deep green sea--the high Tarpeian rock--the Lencadian cliff of Sappho,'--she
said, 'all would be preferable to that! And yet, O Thomas, to think that we should have met
so suddenly, and that to part for ever!' 'Pon my soul, Fred, I am the most miserable of created
beings."

"Why, what on earth has become of her?"

"Gone--and I don't know whither. She would not even apprise the Bailie of her departure, lest
she might leave some clue for discovery. She desired me to see him, to thank him, and to pay
him for her,--all of which I promised to do. With one kiss--one deep, burning, agonised kiss,
which I shall carry with me to my grave--- she tore herself away, sprang into the postchaise,
and in another moment was lost to me for ever!"

"And my ten pounds?" said I, in a tone of considerable emotion.

"Would you have had me think twice," asked Strachan indignantly, "before I tendered my assistance
to a forlorn angel in distress, even though she possessed no deeper claims on my sympathy?
I thought, Frederick, you had more chivalry in your nature. You need not be uneasy about that
trifle;--I shall be in funds some time about Christmas."

"Humph! I thought it was a P.P. transaction, but no matter. And is this all the clue you have
got to the future residence of the lady?"

"No,--she is to write me from the nearest post-town. You will see, Fred, when the letter arrives,
how well worthy she is of my adoration."

I have found, by long experience, that it is no use remonstrating with a man who is head-over-ears
in love. The tender passion affects us differently, according to our constitutions. One set
of fellows, who are generally the pleasantest, seldom get beyond the length of flirtation.
They are always at it, but constantly changing, and therefore manage to get through a tolerable
catalogue of attachments before they are finally brought to book. Such men are quite able to
take care of themselves, and require but little admonition. You no doubt hear them now and
then abused for trifling with the affections of young women--as if the latter had themselves
the slightest remorse in playing precisely the same game!--but in most cases such censure is
undeserved, for they are quite as much in earnest as their neighbours, so long as the impulse
lasts. The true explanation is, that they have survived their first passion, and that their
faith is somewhat shaken in the boyish creed of the absolute perfectibility of woman. The great
disappointment of life does not make them misanthropes--but it forces them to caution, and
to a closer appreciation of character than is usually undertaken in the first instance. They
have become, perhaps, more selfish--certainly more suspicious, and though often on the verge
of a proposal, they never commit themselves without an extreme degree of deliberation.

Another set seem designed by nature to be the absolute victims of woman. Whenever they fall
in love, they do it with an earnestness and an obstinacy which is actually appalling. The adored
object of their affections can twine them round her finger, quarrel with them, cheat them,
caricature them, or flirt with others, without the least risk of severing the triple cord of
attachment. They become as tame as poodle-dogs, will submit patiently to any manner of cruelty
or caprice, and in fact seem rather to be grateful for such treatment than otherwise. Clever
women usually contrive to secure a captive of this kind. He is useful to them in a hundred
ways, never interferes with their schemes, and, if the worst comes to the worst, they can always
fall back upon him as a pis-aller.

My friend Tom Strachan belonged decidedly to this latter section. Mary Rivers, a remarkably
clever and very showy girl, but as arrant a flirt as ever wore rosebud in her bosom, had engrossed
the whole of his heart before he reached the reflecting age of twenty, and kept him for nearly
five years in a state of uncomplaining bondage. Not that I believe she ever cared about him.
Tom was as poor as a church-mouse, and had nothing on earth to look to except the fruits of
his professional industry, which, judging from all appearances, would be a long time indeed
in ripening. Mary was not the sort of person to put up with love in a cottage, even had Tom's
circumstances been adequate to defray the rent of a tenement of that description: she had a
vivid appreciation not only of the substantials, but of the higher luxuries of existence. But
her vanity was flattered at having in her train at least one devoted dangler, whom she could
play off, whenever opportunity required, against some more valuable admirer. Besides, Strachan
was a man of family, tall, good-looking, and unquestionably clever in his way: he also danced
the polka well, and was useful in the ball-room or the pic-nic. So Mary Rivers kept him on
in a kind of blissful dream, just sunning him sufficiently with her smiles to make him believe
that he was beloved, but never allowing matters to go so far as to lead to the report that
they were engaged. Tom asked for nothing more. He was quite contented to indulge for years
in a dream of future bliss, and wrote during the interval a great many more sonnets than summonses.
Unfortunately sonnets don't pay well, so that his worldly affairs did not progress at any remarkable
ratio. And he only awoke to a sense of his real situation, when Miss Rivers, having picked
a quarrel with him one day in the Zoological Gardens, announced on the next to her friends
that she had accepted the hand of a bilious East India merchant.

Tom made an awful row about it--grew as attenuated and brown as an eel--and garnished his conversation
with several significant hints about suicide. He was, however, saved from that ghastly alternative
by being drafted into a Rowing Club, who plied their gondolas daily on the Union Canal. Hard
exercise, beer, and pulling had their usual sanatory effect, and Tom gradually recovered his
health, if not his spirits.

It was at this very crisis that he fell in with this mysterious Miss Percy. There was an immense
hole in his affections which required to be filled up; and, as nature abhors a vacuum, he plugged
it with the image of Dorothea. The flight, therefore, of the fair levanter, after so brief
an intercourse, was quite enough to upset him. He was in the situation of a man who is informed
over-night that he has succeeded to a large fortune, and who gets a letter next morning explaining
that it is a mere mistake. I was therefore not at all astonished either at his paroxysms or
his credulity.

We had rather a dreary dinner that day. The judges always entertain the first day of circuit,
and it is considered matter of etiquette that the counsel should attend. Sometimes these forensic
feeds are pleasant enough; but on the present occasion there was a visible damp thrown over
the spirits of the party. His lordship was evidently savage at the unforeseen escape of M'Wilkin,
and looked upon me, as I thought, with somewhat of a prejudiced eye. Bailie Beeric and the
other magistrates seemed uneasy at their unusual proximity to a personage who had the power
of death and transportation, and therefore abstained from emitting the accustomed torrent of
civic facetiousness. One of the sheriffs wanted to be off on a cruise, and another was unwell
with the gout. The Depute Advocate was fagged; Whaup surly as a bear with a sore ear, on account
of the tenuity of his fees; and Strachan, of course, in an extremely unconversational mood.
So I had nothing for it but to eat and drink as plentifully as I could, and very thankful I
was that the claret was tolerably sound.

We rose from table early. As I did not like to leave Tom to himself in his present state of
mind, we adjourned to his room for the purpose of enjoying a cigar; and there, sure enough,
upon the table lay the expected missive. Strachan dashed at it like a pike pouncing upon a
parr; I lay down upon the sofa, lit my weed, and amused myself by watching his physiognomy.

"Dear suffering angel!" said Tom at last, with a sort of whimper, "Destiny has done its worst!
We have parted, and the first fond dream of our love has vanished before the cold and dreary
dawn of reality! O my friend--we were like the two birds in the Oriental fable, each doomed
to traverse the world before we could encounter our mate--we met, and almost in the same hour
the thunderbolt burst above us!"

"Yes--two very nice birds," said I. "But what does she say in the letter?"

"You may read it," replied Tom, and he handed me the epistle. It was rather a superior specimen
of penmanship, and I don't choose to criticise the style. Its tenor was as follows:--

    "I am hardly yet, my dear friend, capable of estimating the true
    extent of my emotions. Like the buoyant seaweed torn from its native
    bed among the submarine forest of the corals, I have been tossed
    from wave to wave, hurried onwards by a stream more resistless than
    that which sweeps through the Gulf of Labrador, and far--far away as
    yet is the wished-for haven of my rest. Hitherto my life has been a
    tissue of calamity and wo. Over my head since childhood, has
    stretched a dull and dreary canopy of clouds, shutting me out for
    ever from a glimpse of the blessed sun. Once, and but once only have
    I seen a chasm in that envious veil--only once and for a few, a
    very few moments, have I gazed upon the blue empyrean, and felt my
    heart expand and thrill to the glories of its liquid lustre. That
    once--oh, Mr Strachan, can I ever forget it?--that once comprises
    the era of the few hours which were the silent witnesses of our
    meeting!

    "Am I weak in writing to you thus? Perhaps I am; but then, Thomas, I
    have never been taught to dissemble. Did I, however, think it
    probable that we should ever meet again--that I should hear from
    your lips a repetition of that language which now is chronicled in
    my soul--it may be that I would not have dared to risk an avowal so
    candid and so dear! As it is, it matters not. You have been my
    benefactor, my kind consoler--my friend. You have told me that you
    love; and in the fullness and native simplicity of my heart, I
    believe you. And if it be any satisfaction to you to know that your
    sentiments have been at least appreciated, believe that of all the
    pangs which the poor Dorothea has suffered, this last agony of
    parting has been incomparably the most severe.

    "You asked me if there was no hope. Oh, my Thomas! what would I not
    give could I venture to answer, yes? But it cannot be! You are young
    and happy, and will yet be fortunate and beloved: why, then, should
    I permit so fair an existence to be blighted by the upas-tree of
    destiny under which I am doomed to languish? You shall not say that
    I am selfish--you shall not hereafter reproach me for having
    permitted you to share a burden too great for both of us to carry.
    You must learn the one great lesson of existence, to submit and to
    forget!

    "I am going far away, to the margin of that inhospitable shore which
    receives upon its rocks the billows of the unbroken Atlantic,--or
    haply, amongst the remoter isles, I shall listen to the seamew's
    cry. Do not weep for me. Amidst the myriad of bright and glowing
    things which flutter over the surface of this green creation, let
    one feeble, choking, over-burdened heart be forgotten! Follow me
    not--seek me not--for, like the mermaid on the approach of the
    mariner, I should shrink from the face of man into the glassy
    caverns of the deep.

    "Adieu, Thomas, adieu! Say what you will for me to the noble and
    generous Beerie. Would to heaven that I could send him some token in
    return for all his kindness, but a good and gallant heart is its own
    most adequate reward.

    "They are putting to the horses--I can hear the rumble of the
    chariot! Oh, once more, dear friend--alas, too inexpressibly
    dear!--take my last farewell. Adieu--my heart is breaking as I write
    the bitter word!--forget me.

     DOROTHEA."

"Do you wonder at my sorrow now?" said Strachan, as I laid down the passionate epistle.

"Why, no. It is well got up upon the whole, and does credit to the lady's erudition. But I
don't see why she should insist so strongly upon eternal separation. Have you no idea whereabouts
that aunt of hers may happen to reside?"

"Not the slightest."

"Because, judging from her letter, it must be somewhere about Benbecula or Tiree. I shouldn't
even wonder if she had a summer box on St Kilda."

"Right! I did not think of that--you observe she speaks of the remoter isles."

"To be sure, and for half a century there has not been a mermaid seen to the east of the Lewis.
Now, take my advice, Tom--don't make a fool of yourself in the meantime, but wait until the
Court of Session rises in July. That will allow plenty of time for matters to settle; and if
the old Viscount and that abominable Abiram don't find her out before then, you may depend
upon it they will abandon the search. In the interim, the lady will have cooled. Walks upon
the sea-shore are uncommonly dull without something like reciprocal sentimentality. The odds
are, that the old aunt is addicted to snuff, tracts, and the distribution of flannel, and before
August, the fair Dorothea will be yearning for a sight of her adorer. You can easily gammon
Anthony Whaup into a loan of that yacht of his which he makes such a boast of; and if you go
prudently about it, and flatter him on the score of his steering, I haven't the least doubt
that he will victual his hooker and give you a cruise in it for nothing."

"Admirable, my dear Fred! We shall touch at all the isles from Iona to Uist; and if Miss Percy
be indeed there--"

"You can carry her off on five minutes' notice, and our long friend will be abundantly delighted.
Only, mind this! If you want my candid opinion on the wisdom of such an alliance, I should
strongly recommend you to meddle no farther in the matter, for I have my doubts about the Honourable
Dorothea, and--"

"Bah, Fred! Doubts after such a letter as that? Impossible! No, my dear friend--your scheme
is admirable--unexceptionable, and I shall certainly act upon it. But oh--it is a weary time
till July!"

"Merely a short interval of green pease and strawberries. I advise you, however, to fix down
Whaup as early as you can for the cruise."

The hint was rapidly taken. We sent for our facetious friend, ordered supper, and in the course
of a couple of tumblers, persuaded him that his knowledge of nautical affairs was not exceeded
by that of T. P. Cooke, and that he was much deeper versed in the mysteries of sky-scraping
than Fenimore Cooper. Whaup gave in. By dint of a little extra persuasion, I believe we might
have coaxed him into a voyage for Otaheite; and before we parted for the evening it was agreed
that Strachan should hold himself in readiness to start for the Western Islands about the latter
end of July--Whaup being responsible for the provisions and champagne, whilst Tom pledged himself
to cigars.

CHAPTER IV.

I never ascertained the exact amount of the sum which Tom handed over to the Bailie. It must,
however, have been considerable, for he took to retrenching his expenditure, and never once
dropped a hint about the ten pounds which I was so singularly verdant as to lend him. The summer
session stole away as quickly as its predecessors, though not, in so far as I was concerned,
quite as unprofitably, for I got a couple of Sheriff-court papers to draw in consequence of
my M'Wilkin appearance. Tom, however, was very low about himself, and affected solitude. He
would not join in any of the strawberry lunches or fish dinners so attractive to the junior
members of the bar; but frequented the Botanical Gardens, where he might be seen any fine afternoon,
stretched upon the bank beside the pond, concocting sonnets, or inscribing the name of Dorothea
upon the monument dedicated to Linnaeus.

Time, however, stole on. The last man who was going to be married got his valedictory dinner
at the close of session. Gowns were thrown off, wigs boxed up, and we all dispersed to the
country wheresoever our inclination might lead us. I resolved to devote the earlier part of
the vacation to the discovery of the town of Clackmannan--a place of which I had often heard,
but which no human being whom I ever encountered had seen. Whaup was not oblivious of his promise,
and Strachan clove unto him like a limpet.

We did not meet again until September was well-nigh over. In common with Strachan, I had adopted
the resolution of changing my circuit, and henceforth adhering to Glasgow, which, from its
superior supply of criminals, is the favourite resort of our young forensic aspirants. So I
packed my portmanteau, invoked the assistance of Saint Rollox, and started for the balmy west.

The first man I met in George's Square was my own delightful Thomas. He looked rather thin;
was fearfully sun-burned; had on a pair of canvass trowsers most wofully bespattered with tar,
and evidently had not shaved for a fortnight.

"Why, Tom, my dear fellow!" cried I, "can this possibly be you? What the deuce have you been
doing with yourself? You look as hairy as Robinson Crusoe."

"You should see Whaup,--he's rather worse off than Friday. We have just landed at the Broomielaw,
but I was obliged to leave Anthony in a tavern for fear we should be mobbed in the street.
I'm off by the rail to Edinburgh, to get some decent toggery for us both. Lend me a pound-note,
will you?"

"Certainly--that's eleven, you recollect. But what's the meaning of all this? Where is the yacht?"

"Safe--under twenty fathoms of dark blue water, at a place they call the Sneeshanish Islands.
Catch me going out again, with Anthony as steersman!"

"No doubt he is an odd sort of Palinurus. But when did this happen?"

"Ten days ago. We were three days and nights upon the rock, with nothing to eat except two
biscuits, raw mussels and tangle!"

"Mercy on us! and how did you get off?"

"In a kelp-boat from Harris. But I haven't time for explanation just now. Go down, like a good
fellow, to the Broomielaw, No. 431--you will find Anthony enjoying himself with beef steaks
and bottled stout, in the back parlour of the Cat and Bagpipes. I must refer you to him for
the details."

"One word more--you'll be back to the circuit?"

"Decidedly. To-morrow morning: as soon as I can get my things together."

"And the lady--What news of her?"

The countenance of Strachan fell.

"Ah, my dear friend! I wish you had not touched upon that string--you have set my whole frame
a jarring. No trace of her--none--none! I fear I shall never see her more!"

"Come! don't be down-hearted. One never can tell what may happen. Perhaps you may meet her
sooner than you think."

"You are a kind-hearted-fellow, Fred. But I've lost all hope. Nothing but a dreary existence
is now before me, and--but, by Jupiter, there goes the starting bell!"

Tom vanished, like Aubrey's apparition, with a melodious twang, and a perceptible odour of
tar; and so, being determined to expiscate the matter, I proceeded towards the Broomielaw,
and in due time became master of the locality of the Cat and Bagpipes.

"Is there a Mr Whaup here?" I inquired of Mrs M'Tavish, the landlady, who was filling a gill-stoup
at the bar.

"Here you are, old chap!" cried the hilarious voice of Anthony from an inner apartment. "Turn
to the right, steer clear of the scrubbing brushes, and help yourself to a mouthful of Guinness."

I obeyed. Heavens, what a figure he was! His trowsers were rent both at the knees and elsewhere,
and were kept together solely by means of whip-cord. His shirt had evidently not benefited
by the removal of the excise duties upon soap, and was screened from the scrutiny of the beholder
by an extempore paletot, fabricated out of sail-cloth, without the remotest apology for sleeves.

Anthony, however, looked well in health, and appeared to be in tremendous spirits.

"Tip us your fin, my old coxs'un!" said he, winking at me over the rim of an enormous pewter
vessel which effectually eclipsed the lower segment of his visage. "Blessed if I ain't as glad
to see you as one of Mother Carey's chickens in a squall."

"Come, Anthony! leave off your nautical nonsense, and talk like a man of the world. What on
earth have you and Tom Strachan, been after?"

"Nothing on earth, but a good deal on sea, and a trifle on as uncomfortable a section of basalt
as ever served two unhappy buccaniers for bed, table, and sofa. The chilliness is not off me yet."

"But how did it happen?"

"Very simply: but I'll tell you all about it. It's a long story, though, so if you please I
shall top off with something hot. I'm glad you've come, however, for I had some doubts how
far this sort of original Petersham would inspire confidence as to my credit in the bosom of
the fair M'Tavish. It's all right now, however, so here goes for my yarn."

But I shall not follow my friend through all the windings of his discourse, varied though it
certainly was, like the adventures of the venerated Sinbad. Suffice it to say, that they were
hardly out of sight of the Cumbraes before Tom confided the whole tale of his sorrows to the
callous Anthony, who, as he expressed it, had come out for a lark, and had no idea of the of
rummaging the whole of the west coast and the adjacent islands for a petticoat. Moved, however,
by the pathetic entreaties of Strachan, and, perhaps, somewhat reconciled to the quest by the
dim vision of an elopement, Anthony magnanimously waived his objections, and the two kept cruising
together, in a little shell of a yacht, all round the western Archipelago. Besides themselves,
there were only a man and a boy on board.

"It was slow work," said Anthony,--"deucedly slow. I would not have minded the thing so much
if Strachan had been reasonably sociable; but it was rather irksome, you will allow, when,
after the boy had brought in the kettle, and we had made every thing snug for the night, Master
Strachan began to maunder about the lady's eyes, and to tear his hair, and to call himself
the most miserable dog in existence. I had serious thoughts, at one time, of leaving him ashore
on Mull or Skye, and making off direct to the Orkneys; but good-nature was always my foible,
so I went on, beating from one place to another, as though we had been looking for the wreck
of the Florida.

"I'll never take another cruise with a lover so long as I live. Tom led me all manner of dances,
and we were twice fired at from farm-houses where he was caterwauling beneath the windows with
a guitar. It seems he had heard that flame of his sing a Spanish air at Jedburgh. Tom must
needs pick it up, and you have no idea how he pestered me. Go where we would, he kept harping
on that abominable ditty, in the hopes that his mistress might hear him; and, when I remonstrated
on the absurdity of the proceeding, he quoted the case of Blondel, and some trash out of Uhland's
ballads. Serenading on the west coast is by no means a pleasant pastime. The nights are as
raw as an anchovy, and the midges particularly plentiful.

"Well, sir, we could find no trace of the lady after all. Strachan got into low spirits, and
I confess that I was sometimes sulky--so we had an occasional blow up, which by no means added
to the conviviality of the voyage. One evening, just at sundown, we entered the Sound of Sneeshanish--an
ugly place, let me tell you, at the best, but especially to be avoided in any thing like a
gale of wind. The clouds in the horizon looked particularly threatening, and I got a little
anxious, for I knew that there were rocks about, and not a light-house in the whole of the
district.

"In an hour or two it grew as dark as a wolf's throat. I could not for the life of me make
out where we were, for the Sound is very narrow in some parts, and occasionally I thought that
I could hear breakers ahead.

"'Tom,' said I, 'Tom, you lubber!'--for our esteemed friend was, as usual, lying on the deck,
with a cigar in his mouth, twangling at that eternal guitar--'take hold of the helm, will you,
for a minute, while I go down and look at the chart.'

"I was as cold as a cucumber; so, after having ascertained, as I best could, the bearings about
the Sound, I rather think I did stop below for one moment--but not longer--just to mix a glass
of swizzle by way of fortification, for I didn't expect to get to bed that night. All of a
sudden I heard a shout from the bows, bolted upon deck, and there, sure enough, was a black
object right ahead, with the surf shooting over it.

"'Luff, Tom! or we are all dead men;--Luff, I say!' shouted I. I might as well have called
to a millstone. Tom was in a kind of trance.

"'O Dorothea!' said our friend.

"'To the devil with Dorothea!' roared I, snatching the tiller from his hand.

"It was too late. We went smash upon the rock, with a force that sent us headlong upon the
deck, and Strachan staggered to his feet, bleeding profusely at the proboscis.

"Down came the sail rattling about our ears, and over lurched the yacht. I saw there was no
time to lose, so I leaped at once upon the rock, and called upon the rest to follow me. They
did so, and were lucky to escape with no more disaster than a ruffling of the cuticle on the
basalt; for in two minutes more all was over. Some of the timbers had been staved in at the
first concussion. She rapidly filled,--and down went, before my eyes, the Caption the tidiest
little craft that ever pitched her broadside into the hull of a Frenchman!"

"Very well told indeed," said I, "only, Anthony, it does strike me that the last paragraph
is not quite original. I've heard something like it in my younger days, at the Adelphi. But
what became of you afterwards?"

"Faith, we were in a fix, as you may easily conceive. All we could do was to scramble up the
rocks,--which, fortunately, were not too precipitous,--until we reached a dry place, where
we lay, huddled together, until morning. When light came, we found that we were not on the
main land, but on a kind of little stack in the very centre of the channel, without a blade
of grass upon it, or the prospect of a sail in sight. This was a nice situation for two members
of the Scottish bar! The first thing we did was to inquire into the state of provisions, which
found to consist of a couple of biscuits, that little Jim, the boy, happened to have about
him. Of course we followed the example of the earlier navigators, and confiscated these pro
bono publico. We had not a drop of alcohol among us, but, very luckily, picked up a small keg
of fresh water, which, I believe, was our salvation. Strachan did not behave well. He wanted
to keep half-a-dozen cigars to himself; but such monstrous selfishness could not be permitted,
and the rest of us took them from him by force. I shall always blame myself for having weakly
restored to him a cheroot."

"And what followed?"

"Why, we remained three days upon the rock. Fortunately the weather was moderate, so that we
were not absolutely washed away, but for all that it was consumedly cold of nights. The worst
thing, however, was the deplorable state of our larder. We finished the biscuits the first
day, trusting to be speedily relieved; but the sun set without a vestige of a sail, and we
supped sparingly upon tangle. Next morning we were so ravenous that we could have eaten raw
squirrels. That day we subsisted entirely upon shell-fish, and smoked all our cigars. On the
third we bolted two old gloves, buttons and all; and, do you know, Fred, I began to be seriously
alarmed about the boy Jim, for Strachan kept eying him like an ogre, began to mutter some horrid
suggestions as to the propriety of casting lots, and execrated his own stupidity in being unprovided
with a jar of pickles."

"O Anthony--for shame!"

"Well--I'm sure he was thinking about it, if he did not say so. However, we lunched upon a
shoe, and for my own part, whenever I go upon another voyage, I shall take the precaution of
providing myself with pliable French boots--your Kilmarnock leather is so very intolerably
tough! Towards evening, to our infinite joy, we descried a boat entering the Sound. We shouted,
as you may be sure, like demons. The Celtic Samaritans came up, and, thanks to the kindness
of Rory M'Gregor the master, we each of us went to sleep that night with at least two gallons
of oatmeal porridge comfortably stowed beneath our belts. And that's the whole history."

"And how do you feel after such unexampled privation?"

"Not a hair the worse. But this I know, that if ever I am caught again on such idiotical errand
as hunting for a young woman through the Highlands, my nearest of kin are at perfect liberty
to have me cognosced without opposition."

"Ah--you are no lover, Anthony. Strachan, now, would go barefooted through Stony Arabia, for
the mere chance of a casual glimpse at his mistress."

"All I can say, my dear fellow, is, that if connubial happiness cannot be purchased without
a month's twangling on a guitar and three consecutive suppers upon sea-weed, I know at least
one respectable young barrister who is likely to die unmarried. But I say, Fred, let us have
a coach and drive up to your hotel. You can lend me a coat, I suppose, or something of the
sort, until Strachan arrives; and just be good enough, will you, to settle with Mrs M'Tavish
for the bill, for, by all my hopes of a sheriffship, I have been thoroughly purged of my tin."

The matter may not be of any especial interest to the public; at the same time I think it right
to record the fact that Anthony Whaup owes me seven shillings and eightpence unto this day.

"That is all I can tell you about it," said Mr Hedger, as he handed me the last of three indictments,
with the joyful accompaniment of the fees. "That is all I can tell you about it. If the alibi
will hold water, good and well--if not, M'Closkie will be transported."

Hedger is the very best criminal agent I ever met with. There is always a point in his cases--his
precognitions are perfect, and pleading, under such auspices, becomes a kind of realised romance.

"By the way," said he, "is there a Mr Strachan of your bar at circuit? I have a curious communication
from a prisoner who is desirous to have him as her counsel."

"Indeed? I am glad to hear it. Mr Strachan is a particular friend of mine, and will be here
immediately. I shall be glad to introduce you. Is it a heavy case?"

"No, but rather an odd one--a theft of money committed at the Blenheim hotel. The woman seems
a person of education, but, as she obstinately refuses to tell me her story, I know very little
more about it than is contained in the face of the indictment."

"What is her name?"

"Why you know that is a matter not very easily ascertained. She called herself Euphemia Saville
when brought up for examination, and of course she will be tried as such. She is well dressed,
and rather pretty, but she won't have any other counsel than Mr Strachan; and singularly enough,
she has positively forbidden me to send him a fee on the ground that he would take it as an
insult."

"I should feel particularly obliged if the whole public would take to insulting me perpetually
in that manner! But really this is an odd history. Do you think she is acquainted with my friend?"

Hedger winked.

"I can't say," said he "for, to tell you the truth, I know nothing earthly about it. Only she
was so extremely desirous to have him engaged, that I thought it not a little remarkable. I
hope your friend won't take offence if I mention what the woman said?"

"Not in the least, you may be sure of that. And, apropos, here he comes."

And in effect Whaup and Strachan now walked into the counsel's apartment, demure, shaven, and
well dressed--altogether two very different looking individuals from the tatterdemalions of
yesterday.

"Good morning, Fred," cried Whaup; "Servant, Mr Hedger--lots of work going, eh? Are the pleas
nearly over yet?"

"Very nearly, I believe, Mr Whaup. Would you have the kindness to----"

"Oh, certainly," said I. "Strachan, allow me to introduce my friend Mr Hedger, who is desirous
of your professional advice."

"I say, Freddy," said Whaup, looking sulkily at the twain as they retired to a window to consult,
"what's in the wind now? Has old Hedger got a spite at any of his clients?"

"How should I know? What do you mean?"

"Because I should rather think," said Anthony, "that in our friend Strachan's hands the lad
runs a remarkably good chance of a sea voyage to the colonies, that's all."

"Fie for shame, Anthony! You should not bear malice."

"No more I do--but I can't forget the loss of the little Caption all through his stupid blundering;
and this morning he must needs sleep so long that he lost the early train, and has very likely
cut me out of business for the sheer want of a pair of reputable trousers."

"Never mind--there is a good time coming."

"Which means, I suppose, that you have got the pick of the cases? Very well: it can't be helped,
so I shall even show myself in court by way of public advertisement."

So saying, my long friend wrestled himself into his gown, adjusted his wig knowingly upon his
cranium, and rushed toward the court-room as vehemently as though the weal of the whole criminal
population of the west depended upon his individual exertions.

"Freddy, come here, if you please," said Strachan, "this is a very extraordinary circumstance!
Do you know that this woman, Euphemia Saville, though she wishes me to act as her counsel,
has positively refused to see me!"

"Very odd, certainly! Do you know her?"

"I never heard of the name in my life. Are you sure, Mr Hedger, that there is no mistake?"

"Quite sure, sir. She gave me, in fact, a minute description of your person, which perhaps
I may be excused from repeating."

"Oh, I understand," said Tom, fishingly; "complimentary, I suppose--eh?"

"Why yes, rather so," replied Hedger hesitatingly; and he cast at the same time a glance at
the limbs of my beloved friend, which convinced me that Miss Saville's communication had, somehow
or other, borne reference to the shape of a parenthesis. "But, at all events, you may be sure
she has seen you. I really can imagine no reason for an interview. We often have people who
take the same kind of whims, and you have no idea of their obstinacy. The best way will be
to let the Crown lead its evidence, and trust entirely to cross-examination. I shall take care,
at all events, that her appearance shall not damage her. She is well dressed, and I don't doubt
will make use of her cambric handkerchief."

"And a very useful thing that same cambric is," observed I. "Come, Tom, my boy, pluck up courage!
You have opportunity now for a grand display; and if you can poke in something about chivalry
and undefended loveliness, you may be sure it will have an effect on the jury. There is a strong
spice of romance in the composition of the men of the Middle Ward."

"The whole thing, however, seems to me most mysterious."

"Very; but that is surely an additional charm. We seldom find a chapter from the Mysteries
of Udolfo transferred to the records of the Justiciary Court of Scotland."

"Well, then, I suppose it must be so. Fred, will you sit beside me at the trial? I'm not used
to this sort of thing as yet, and I possibly may feel nervous."

"Not a bit of you. At any rate I shall be there, and of course you may command me."

In due time the cause was called. Miss Euphemia Saville ascended the trap stair, and took her
seat between a pair of policemen with exceedingly luxuriant whiskers.

I must allow that I felt a strong curiosity about Euphemia. Her name was peculiar; the circumstances
under which she came forward were unusual; and her predilection for Strachan was tantalising.
Her appearance, however, did little to solve the mystery. She was neatly, even elegantly dressed
in black, with a close-fitting bonnet and thick veil, which at first effectually obscured her
countenance. This, indeed, she partially removed when called upon to plead to the indictment;
but the law of no civilised coountry that I know of is so savage as to prohibit the use of
a handkerchief, and the fair Saville availed herself of the privilege by burying her countenance
in cambric. I could only get a glimpse Of some beautiful black braided hair and a forehead
that resembled alabaster. To all appearance she was extremely agitated, and sobbed as she answered
to the charge.

The tender-hearted Strachan was not the sort of man to behold the sorrows of his client without
emotion. In behalf of the junior members of the Scottish bar I will say this, that they invariably
fight tooth and nail when a pretty girl is concerned, and I have frequently heard bursts of
impassioned eloquence poured forth in defence of a pair of bright eyes or a piquant figure,
in cases where an elderly or wizened dame would have run a strong chance of finding no Cicero
by her side. Tom accordingly approached the bar for the purpose of putting some questions to
his client, but not a word could he extract in reply. Euphemia drew down her veil, and waved
her hand with a repulsive gesture.

"I don't know what to make of her," said Strachan; "only she seems to be a monstrous fine woman.
It is clear, however, that she has mistaken me for somebody else. I never saw her in my life
before."

"Hedger deserves great credit for the way he has got her up. Observe, Tom, there is no finery
about her; no ribbons or gaudy scarfs, which are as unsuitable at a trial as at a funeral.
Black is your only wear to find favour in the eyes of a jury."

"True. It is a pity that so little attention is paid to the aesthetics of criminal clothing.
But here comes the first witness--Grobey I think they call him--the fellow who lost the money."

Mr Grobey mounted the witness-box like a cow ascending a staircase. He was a huge, elephantine
animal of some sixteen stone, with bushy eyebrows and a bald pate, which he ever and anon affectionately
caressed with a red and yellow bandana. Strachan started at the sound of his voice, surveyed
him wistfully for a moment, and then said to me in a hurried whisper--

"As I live, Fred, that is the identical bagman who boned my emerald studs at Jedburgh!"

"You don't mean to say it?"

"Fact, upon my honour! There is no mistaking his globular freetrading nose. Would it not be
possible to object to his evidence on that ground?"

"Mercy on us! no.--Reflect--there is no conviction."

"True. But he stole them nevertheless. I'll ask him about them when I cross."

Mr Grobey's narrative, however, as embraced in animated dialogue with the public prosecutor,
threw some new and unexpected light upon the matter. Grobey was a traveller in the employment
of the noted house of Barnacles, Deadeye, and Company, and perambulated the country for the
benevolent purpose of administering to deficiency of vision. In the course of his wanderings,
he had arrived at the Blenheim, where, after a light supper of fresh herrings, toasted cheese,
and Edinburgh ale, assisted, more Bagmannorum, by several glasses of stiff brandy and water,
he had retired to his apartment to sleep off the labours of the day. Somnus, however, did not
descend that night with his usual lightness upon Grobey. On the contrary, the deity seemed
changed into a ponderous weight, which lay heavily upon the chest of the moaning and suffocated
traveller; and notwithstanding a paralysis which appeared to have seized upon his limbs, every
external object in the apartment became visible to him as by the light of a magic lantern.
He heard his watch ticking, like a living creature, upon the dressing-table where he had left
it. His black morocco pocketbook was distinctly visible, beside the looking-glass, and two
spectral boots stood up amidst the varied shadows of the night. Grobey was very uncomfortable.
He began to entertain the horrid idea that a fiend was hovering, through his chamber.

All at once he heard the door creaking upon its hinges. There was a slight rustling of muslin,
a low sigh, and then momentary silence. "What, in the name of John Bright, can that be?" thought
the terrified traveller; but he had not to wait long for explanation. The door opened slowly--a
female figure, arrayed from head to foot in robes of virgin whiteness, glided in, and fixed
her eyes, with an expression of deep solemnity and menace, upon the countenance of Grobey.
He lay breathless and motionless beneath the spell. This might have lasted for about a minute,
during which time, as Grobey expressed it, his very entrails were convulsed with fear. The
apparition then moved onwards, still keeping her eyes upon the couch. She stood for a moment
near the window, raised her arm with a monitory gesture to the sky, and then all at once seemed
to disappear as it absorbed in the watery moonshine. Grobey was as bold a bagman as ever flanked
a mare with his gig-whip, but this awful visitation was too much. Boots, looking-glass, and
table swam with a distracting whirl before his eyes; he uttered a feeble yell, and immediately
lapsed into a swoon.

It was bright morning when he awoke. He started up, rubbed his eyes, and endeavoured to persuade
himself that it was all an illusion. To be sure there were the boots untouched, the coat, the
hat, and the portmanteau; but where--oh where--were the watch and the plethoric pocketbook,
with its bunch of bank-notes and other minor memoranda? Gone--spirited away; and with a shout
of despair old Grobey summoned the household.

The police were straightway taken into his confidence. The tale of the midnight apparition--of
the Demon Lady--was told and listened to, at first with somewhat of an incredulous smile; but
when the landlord stated that an unknown damosel had been sojourning for two days at the hotel,
that she had that morning vanished in a hackney-coach without leaving any trace of her address,
and that, moreover, certain spoons of undeniable silver were amissing, Argus pricked up his
ears, and after some few preliminary inquiries, issued forth in quest of the fugitive. Two
days afterwards the fair Saville was discovered in a temperance hotel; and although the pocketbook
had disappeared, both the recognisable notes and the watch were found in her possession. A
number of pawn-tickets, also, which were contained in her reticule, served to collect from
divers quarters a great mass of bijouterie, amongst which were the Blenheim spoons.

Such was Mr Grobey's evidence as afterwards supplemented by the police. Tom rose to cross-examine.

"Pray, Mr Grobey," said he, adjusting his gown upon his shoulders with a very knowing and determined
air as though he intended to expose his victim--"Pray, Mr Grobey, are you any judge of studs?"

"I ain't a racing man," replied Grobey, "but I knows an oss when I sees it."

"Don't equivocate, sir, if you please. Recollect you are upon your oath," said Strachan, irritated
by a slight titter which followed upon Grobey's answer. "I mean studs, sir--emerald studs for
example?"

"I ain't. But the lady is," replied Grobey.

"How do you mean, sir?"

"'Cos there vos five pair on them taken out of pawn with her tickets."

"How do you know that, sir?"

"'Cos I seed them."

"Were you at Jedburgh, sir, in the month of April last?"

"I was."

"Do you recollect seeing me there?"

"Perfectly."

"Do you remember what passed upon that occasion?"

"You was rather confluscated, I think."

There was a general laugh.

"Mr Strachan," said the judge mildly, "I am always sorry to interrupt a young counsel, but
I really cannot see the relevancy of these questions. The Court can have nothing to do with
your communications with the witness. I presume I need not take a note of these latter answers."

"Very well, my lord," said Tom, rather discomfited at being cut out of his revenge on the bagman,
"I shall ask him something else;" and he commenced his examination in right earnest. Grobey,
however, stood steadfast to the letter of his previous testimony.

Another witness was called; and to my surprise the Scottish Vidocq appeared. He spoke to the
apprehension and the search, and also to the character of the prisoner. In his eyes she had
long been chronicled as habit and repute a thief.

"You know the prisoner then?" said Strachan rising.

"I do. Any time these three years."

"Under what name is she known to you?"

"Betsy Brown is her real name, but she has gone by twenty others."

"By twenty, do you say?"

"There or thereabouts. She always flies at high game; and, being a remarkably clever woman,
she passes herself off for a lady."

"Have you ever seen her elsewhere than in Glasgow?"

"I have."

"Where?"

"At Jedburgh."

I cannot tell what impulse it was that made me twitch Strachan's gown at this moment. It was
not altogether a suspicion, but rather a presentiment of coming danger. Strachan took the hint
and changed his line.

"Can you specify any of her other names?"

"I can. There are half-a-dozen of them here on the pawn-tickets. Shall I read them?"

"If you please."

"One diamond ring, pledged in name of Lady Emily Delaroche. A garnet brooch and chain--Miss
Maria Mortimer. Three gold seals--Mrs Markham Vere. A watch and three emerald studs--the Honourable
Dorothea Percy----"

There was a loud shriek from the bar, and a bustle--the prisoner had fainted.

I looked at Strachan. He was absolutely as white as a corpse.

"My dear Tom," said I, "hadn't you better go out into the open air?"

"No!" was the firm reply; "I am here to do my duty, and I'll do it."

And in effect, the Spartan boy with the fox gnawing into his side, did not acquit himself more
heroically than my friend. The case was a clear one, no doubt, but Tom made a noble speech,
and was highly complimented by the Judge upon his ability. No sooner, however, had he finished
it than he left the Court.

I saw him two hours afterwards.

"Tom," said I, "About these emerald studs--I think I could get them back from the Fiscal."

"Keep them to yourself. I'm off to India."

"Bah!--go down to the Highlands for a month."

Tom did so; purveyed himself a kilt; met an heiress at the Inverness Meeting, and married her.
He is now the happy father of half-a-dozen children, and a good many of us would give a trifle
for his practice. But to this day he is as mad as a March hare if an allusion is made in his
presence to any kind of studs whatsoever.

CÆSAR.

  Wake, Rome! destruction's at thy door.
  Rouse thee! for thou wilt sleep no more
            Till thou shalt sleep in death:
  The tramp of storm-shod Mars is near--
  His chariot's thundering roll I hear,
            His trumpet's startling breath.
  Who comes?--not they, thy fear of old,
  The blue-eyed Gauls, the Cimbrians bold,
  Who like a hail-shower in the May
  Came, and like hail they pass'd away;
            But one with surer sword,
  A child whom thou hast nursed, thy son,
  Thy well-beloved, thy favoured one,
            Thy Cæsar comes--thy lord!

  The ghost of Marius walks to-night
  By Anio's banks in shaggy plight,
            And laughs with savage glee;
  And Sylla from his loathsome death,
  Scenting red Murder's reeking breath,
            Doth rise to look on thee.
  Signs blot the sky; the deep-vex'd earth
  Breeds portents of a monstrous birth;
  And augurs pale with fear have noted
  The dark-vein'd liver strangely bloated,
            Hinting some dire disaster.
  To right the wrongs of human kind
  Behold! the lordly Rome to bind,
            A Roman comes--a master.

  He comes whom, nor the Belgic band,
  The bravest Nervii might withstand
            With pleasure-spurning souls
  Nor they might give his star eclipse,
  The sea-swept Celts with high-tower'd ships,
            Where westmost ocean rolls.
  Him broad-waved Rhine reluctant own'd
  As 'neath the firm-set planks it groan'd,
  Then, when the march of spoiling Rome
  Stirr'd the far German's forest-home;
            And when he show'd his rods
  Back to their marshy dens withdrew
  The Titan-hearted Suevians blue,
            That dared the immortal gods.

  Him Britain from her extreme shores,
  Where fierce the huge-heaved ocean roars,
            Beholding, bent the knee.
  Now, Pompey, now! from rushing Fate
  Thy Rome redeem: but 'tis too late,
            Nor lives that strength in thee.
  In vain for thee State praises flow
  From lofty-sounding Cicero;
  Vainly Marcellus prates thy cause,
  And Cato, true to parchment laws,
            Protests with rigid hands:
  The echo of a by-gone fame,
  The shadow of a mighty name,
            The far-praised Pompey stands.

  Lift up thine eyes, and see! Sheer down,
  From where the Alps tremendous frown,
            Strides War, which Julius leads:
  Eager to follow, to pursue--
  Sleepless, to one high purpose true,
            The prosperous soldier speeds.
  He comes, all eye to scan, all hand
  To do, the instinct of command;
  With firm-set tread, and pointed will,
  And harden'd courage, practised skill,
            And anger-whetted sword:
  A man to seize, and firmly hold--
  To his own use a world to mould--
            Rome's not unworthy lord!

  The little Rubicon doth brim
  Its purple tide--a check for him,
            Hinted, how vainly![15] He
  All bounds and marks, the world's dull wonder,
  Calmly o'erleaps, and snaps asunder
            All reverend ties that be!
  The soldier carries in his sword
  The primal right by bridge or ford
  To pass. Shall kingly Cæsar fall
  And kiss the ground--the Senate's thrall
            And boastful Pompey's drudge?
  Forthwith, with one bold plunge, is pass'd
  The fateful flood--"the DIE is CAST;
  Let Fortune be the judge!"[16]

  The day rose on Ariminum
  With War's shrill cry--They come! they come!
        Nor they unwelcomed came;
  Pisauram, Fanum's shrine, and thou,
  Ancon, with thy sea-fronting brow,
        Own'd the great soldier's name.
  And all Picenum's orchard-fields,
  And the strong-forted Asculum yields:
  And where, beyond high Apennine,
  Clitumnus feeds the white, white kine;
        And 'mid Pelignian hills--
  Short time, with his Corfinian bands,
  Stout Aenobarbus stiffly stands
        Where urgent Cæsar wills![17]

  Flee, Pompey, flee! the ancient awe
  Of magisterial rule and law,
        Authority and state,
  The Consul's name, the Lictor's rods,
  The pomp of Capitolian gods,
        Stem not the flooding fate.
  Beneath the Volscian hills, and near
  Where exiled Marius lurk'd in fear,
  'Mid stagnant Liris' marshes, there
  Breathe first in that luxurious lair
        Where famous Hannibal lay;[18]
  Nor tarry; while the chance is thine.
  Hie o'er the Samnian Apennine
        To the far Calabrian bay!

  Wing thy sure speed! Who hounds thy path?
  Fierce as the Furies in their wrath
        The blood-stain'd wretch pursue,
  He comes, Rome's tempest-footed son,
  Victor, but deeming nothing done
        While aught remains to do.
  Above Brundusium's bosom'd bay
  He stands, lashing the Adrian spray.
  With piers of enterprise the sea
  Her fleet-wing'd chariot trims for thee,
        To the Greek coast to bear thee;
  There, where Enipeus rolls his flood
  Through storied fields made fat with blood,[19]
        For fate's last blow prepare thee.

  There will thy dwindled hosts, increased
  By kings and tetrarchs of the East,
        And sons of swarthy Nile;
  From Pontus and from Colchis far,
  The gather'd ranks of motley war,
        Let fortune seem to smile
  A moment, that with sterner frown,
  She, when she strikes, may strike thee down.
  A flattering fool shall be thy guide,[20]
  And hope shall whisper to thy pride
        Things that may not befall.
  Thy forward-springing wit shall boast
  The numbers of thy counted host--
        That pride may have a fall.

  Hoar Pindus, from his rocky barriers,
  Looks on thy ranks of gay-plumed warriors,
        And sees an ominous sight:
  The leafy tent for victory graced,
  Foresnatching fate with impious haste
        From gods that rule the fight.
  Thus fools have perish'd; and thus thou,
  Spurr'd to sheer death, art blinded now.
  Feeble thy clouds of clattering horse
  To dash his steady ordered force;
        From twanging bow and sling
  Dintless the missile hail is pour'd,
 Where the Tenth Legion wields the sword,
        And Cæsar leads the wing.[21]

  'Tis done. And sire to son shall tell
  What on Emathian plains befell,
        A God-ordain'd disaster;
  How justice dealt the even blow,
  And Rome that laid the nations low
        Herself hath found a master.
  Oh, had thou known thyself to rule,
  That train'd the world in thy stern school,
 Fate might have gentlier dealt; but now
  Thyself thy proper Fury, thou
        Hast struck the avenging blow.
  On sandy Afric's treacherous shore,
  Fresh from red Pharsaly's streaming gore,
        Lies Rome with Pompey low.

     J. S. B.

INVERURY, 1847.

FOOTNOTES:

[15] The Rubicon, which is a small torrent, a little north of Rimini (Ariminum), flowing into
the Hadriatic, was, at the time of Cæsar's famous passage, swollen to a considerable stream
by three days' rain.--LUCAN, i. 213-19.

[16] "'Hic,' ait--'hic pacem temerataque jura relinquo.
    Te, Fortuna, sequor, procul hinc jam foedera sunto;
    Credidunus Fatis, uterdum est judice bello.'"--LUCAN, i. 227.

[17] Cæsar met with no opposition in his march to Rome except from Domitius Aenobarbus, who
was stationed at Corfinium, amid the Apennines, east of the Eucine lake. The line of march
which Cæsarr took, through Picenum, was, as Gibbon has remarked, calculated at once to clear
his rear of the Pompeian party, and to frighten Pompey himself, not only out of Rome, but,
as actually happened, out of Italy.

[18] Pompey fled to Capua, passing the marshes of Minturnae at the mouth of the Liris (now
the Garigliano), and from thence over the Apennines, by the Via Appia, to Brundusium in the
ancient Calabria.

[19] An allusion to the battle of Cynoscephalae, which subjected Macedonia to the Romans (B.
C. 197.) The scene of this battle was on the same plain of Thessaly through which the Enipeus
flows into the Peneus, passing by Pharsalus in its course. This alludes to the battle of Dyrrachium,
where Pompey was successful for a moment, only to revive in his party that vain confidence
and shallow conceit which was their original ruin.

[20] Labienus, Cæsar's lieutenant in the Gallic war; but who afterwards joined Pompey. He gave
his new master bad advice.--Bellum Civile, iii.

[21] See the order of battle of both parties.--Bellum Civile, iii. 68, 69.

REID AND THE PHILOSOPHY OF COMMON SENSE.[22]

Although Dr Reid does not stand in the very highest rank of philosophers, this incomparable
edition of his works goes far to redress his deficiencies, and to render his writings, taken
in connexion with the editorial commentaries, a most engaging and profitable study. It is probable
that the book derives much of its excellence from the very imperfections of the textual author.
Had Reid been a more learned man, he might have failed to elicit the unparalleled erudition
of his editor,--had he been a clearer and closer thinker, Sir William Hamilton's vigorous logic
and speculative acuteness, would probably have found a narrower field for their display. On
the whole, we cannot wish that Reid had been either more erudite or more perspicacious, so
pointed and felicitous is the style in which his errors are corrected, his thoughts reduced
to greater precision, his ambiguities pointed out and cleared up, and his whole system set
in its most advantageous light, by his admiring, though by no means idolatrous editor.

Besides being a model of editorship, this single volume is, in so far as philosophy and the
history of philosophical opinion are concerned, of itself a literature. We must add, however,
that Sir William Hamilton's dissertations, though abundant, are not yet completed. Yet, in
spite of this drawback, the work is one which ought to wipe away effectually from our country
the reproach of imperfect learning and shallow speculation; for in depth of thought, and extent
and accuracy of knowledge, the editor's own contributions are of themselves sufficient to bring
up our national philosophy (which had fallen somewhat into arrear) to a level with that of
the most scientific countries in Europe.

In the remarks that are to follow, we shall confine ourselves to a critique of the philosophy
of Dr Reid, and of its collateral topics. Sir William Hamilton's dissertations are too elaborate
and important to be discussed, unless in an article, or series of articles, devoted exclusively
to themselves. Should we appear in aught to press the philosophy of common sense too hard,
we conceive that our strictures are, to a considerable extent, borne out by the admissions
of Sir William Hamilton himself, in regard to the tenets of the founder of the school. And
should some of our shafts glance off against the editor's own opinions, he has only himself
to blame for it. If we see a fatal flaw in the constitution of all, and consequently of his,
psychology, it was his writings that first opened our eyes to it. So lucidly has he explained
certain philosophical doctrines, that they cannot stop at the point to which he has carried
them. They must be rolled forward into a new development which perhaps may be at variance with
the old one, where he tarries. But his powerful arm first set the stone in motion, and he must
be content to let it travel whithersoever it may. He has taught those who study him to think--and
he must stand the consequences, whether they think in unison with himself or not. We, conceive,
however, that even those who differ from him most, would readily own, that to his instructive
disquisitions they were indebted for at least one half of all that they know of philosophy.

In entering on an examination of the system of Dr Reid, we must ask first of all, what is the
great problem about which philosophers in all ages have busied themselves most, and which consequently
must have engaged, and did engage, a large share of the attention of the champion of Common
Sense? We must also state the fact which gives rise to the problem of philosophy.

The perception of a material universe, as it is the most prominent fact of cognition, so has
it given rise to the problem which has been most agitated by philosophers. This question does
not relate to the existence of the fact. The existence of the perception of matter is admitted
on all hands. It refers to the nature, or origin, or constitution of the fact. Is the perception
of matter simple and indivisible, or is it composite and divisible? Is it the ultimate, or
is it only the penultimate, datum of cognition? Is it a relation constituted by the concurrence
of a mental or subjective, and a material or objective element,--or do we impose upon ourselves
in regarding it as such? Is it a state, or modification of the human mind? Is it an effect
that can be distinguished from its cause? Is it an event consequent on the presence of real
antecedent objects? These interrogations are somewhat varied in their form, but each of them
embodies the whole point at issue, each of them contains the cardinal question of philosophy.
The perception of matter is the admitted fact. The character of this fact--that is the point
which speculation undertakes to canvass, and endeavours to decipher.

Another form in which the question may be put is this: We all believe in the existence of matter--but
what kind of matter do we believe in the existence of? matter per se, or matter cum perceptione?
If the former--this implies that the given fact (the perception of matter) is compound and
submits to analysis; if the latter--this implies that it is simple and defies partition.

Opposite answers to this question are returned by psychology and metaphysics. In the estimation
of metaphysic, the perception of matter is the absolutely elementary in cognition, the ne plus
ultra of thought. Reason cannot get beyond, or behind it. It has no pedigree. It admits of
no analysis. It is not a relation constituted by the coalescence of an objective and a subjective
element. It is not a state or modification of the human mind. It is not an effect which can
be distinguished from its cause. It is not brought about by the presence of antecedent realities.
It is positively the FIRST, with no forerunner. The perception-of-matter is one mental word,
of which the verbal words are mere syllables. We impose upon ourselves, and we also falsify
the fact, if we take any other view of it than this. Thus speaks metaphysic, though perhaps
not always with an unfaltering voice.

Psychology, or the science of the human mind, teaches a very different doctrine. According
to this science, the perception of matter is a secondary and composite truth. It admits of
being analysed into a subjective and an objective element--a mental modification called perception
on the one hand, and matter per se on the other. It is an effect induced by real objects. It
is not the first datum of intelligence. It has matter itself for its antecedent. Such, in very
general terms, is the explanation of the perception of matter which psychology proposes.

Psychology and metaphysics are thus radically opposed to each other in their solutions of the
highest problem of speculation. Stated concisely, the difference between them is this:--psychology
regards the perception of matter as susceptible of analytic treatment, and travels, or endeavours
to travel, beyond the given fact: metaphysic stops short in the given fact, and there makes
a stand, declaring it to be all indissoluble unity. Psychology holds her analysis to be an
analysis of things. Metaphysic holds the psychological analysis to be an analysis of sounds--and
nothing more.

These observations exhibit, in their loftiest generalisation, the two counter doctrines on
the subject of perception. We now propose to follow them into their details, for the purpose
both of eliciting the truth and of arriving at a correct judgment in regard to the reformation
which Dr Reid is supposed to have effected in this department of philosophy.

The psychological or analytic doctrine is the first which we shall discuss, on account of its
connexion with the investigations of Dr Reid,--in regard to whom we may state, beforehand,
our conclusion and its grounds, which are these:--that Reid broke down in his philosophy, both
polemical and positive, because he assumed the psychological and not the metaphysical doctrine
of perception as the basis of his arguments. He did not regard the perception of matter as
absolutely primary and simple; but in common with all psychologists, he conceived that it admitted
of being resolved into a mental condition, and a material reality; and the consequence was,
that he fell into the very errors which it was the professed business of his life to denounce
and exterminate. How this catastrophe came about we shall endeavour shortly to explain.

Reid's leading design was to overthrow scepticism and idealism. In furtherance of this intention,
he proposed to himself the accomplishment of two subsidiary ends,--the refutation of what is
called the ideal or representative theory of perception, and the substitution of a doctrine
of intuitive perception in its room. He takes, and he usually gets, credit for having accomplished
both of these objects. But if it be true that the representative theory is but the inevitable
development of the doctrine which treats the perception of matter analytically, and if it be
true that Reid adopts this latter doctrine, it is obvious that his claims cannot be admitted
without a very considerable deduction. That both of these things are true may be established,
we think, beyond the possibility of a doubt.

In the first place, then, we have to show that the theory of a representative perception (which
Reid is supposed to have overthrown) is identical with the doctrine which treats the perception
of matter analytically;--and, in the second, we have to show that Reid himself followed the
analytic or psychological procedure in his treatment of this fact, and founded upon the analysis
his own doctrine of perception.

First, The representative theory is that doctrine of perception which teaches that, in our
intercourse with the external universe, we are not immediately cognisant of real objects themselves,
but only of certain mental transcripts or images of them, which, in the language of the different
philosophical schools, were termed ideas, representations, phantasms, or species. According
to this doctrine we are cognisant of real things, not in and through themselves, but in and
through these species or representations. The representations are the immediate or proximate,
the real things are the mediate or remote, objects of the mind. The existence of the former
is a matter of knowledge, the existence of the latter is merely a matter of belief.

To understand this theory, we must construe its nomenclature into, the language of the present
day. What, then, is the modern synonym for the "ideas," "representations," "phantasms," and
"species," which the theory in question declares to be vicarious of real objects? There cannot
be a doubt that the word perception is that synonym. So that the representative theory, when
fairly interpreted, amounts simply to this;--that the mind is immediately cognisant, not of
real objects themselves, but only of its own perceptions of real objects. To accuse the representationist
of maintaining a doctrine more repugnant to common sense than this, or in any way different
from it, would be both erroneous and unjust. The golden rule of philosophical criticism is,
to give every system the benefit of the most favourable interpretation which it admits of.

This, then, is the true version of representationism,--namely, that our perceptions of material
things, and not material things per se, are the proximate objects of our consciousness when
we hold intercourse with the external universe.

Now, this is a doctrine which inevitably emerges the instant that the analysis of the perception
of matter is set on foot and admitted. When a philosopher divides, or imagines that he divides,
the perception of matter into two things, perception and matter, holding the former to be a
state of his own mind, and the latter to be no such state; he does, in that analysis, and without
saying one other word, avow himself to be a thoroughgoing representationist. For his analysis
declares that, in perception, the mind has an immediate or proximate, and a mediate or remote
object. Its perception of matter is the proximate object--the object of its consciousness;
matter itself, the material existence, is the remote object--the object of its belief. But
such a doctrine is representationism, in the strictest sense of the word. It is the very essence
and definition of the representative theory to recognise, in perception, a remote as well as
a proximate object of the mind. Every system which does this, is necessarily a representative
system. The doctrine which treats the perception of matter analytically does this; therefore
the analytic or psychological doctrine is identical with the representative theory. Both hold
that the perceptive process involves two objects--an immediate and a mediate; and nothing more
is required to establish their perfect identity. The analysis of the fact which we call the
perception of matter, is unquestionably the groundwork and pervading principle of the theory
of a representative perception, whatever form of expression this scheme may at any time have
assumed.

Secondly, Did Dr Reid go to work analytically in his treatment of the perception of matter?
Undoubtedly he did. He followed the ordinary psychological practice. He regarded the datum
as divisible into perception and matter. The perception he held to be an act, if not a modification,
of our minds; the matter, he regarded as something which existed out of the mind and irrespective
of all perception. Right or wrong, he resolved, or conceived that he had resolved, the perception
of matter into its constituent elements--these being a mental operation on the one hand, and
a material existence on the other. In short, however ambiguous many of Dr Reid's principles
may be, there can be no doubt that he founded his doctrine of perception on an analysis of
the given fact with which he had to deal. He says, indeed, but little about this analysis,
so completely does he take it for granted. He accepted, as a thing of course, the notorious
distinction between the perception of matter and matter itself: and, in doing so, he merely
followed the example of all preceding psychologists.

These two points being established,--first, that the theory of representationism necessarily
arises out of an analysis of the perception of matter; and secondly, that Reid analysed or
accepted the analysis of this fact,--it follows as a necessary consequence, that Reid, so far
from having overthrown the representative theory, was himself a representationist. His analysis
gave him more than he bargained for. He wished to obtain only one, that is, only a proximate
object in perception; but his analysis necessarily gave him two: it gave him a remote as well
as a proximate object. The mental mode or operation which he calls the perception of matter,
and which he distinguishes from matter itself, this, in his philosophy, is the proximate object
of consciousness, and is precisely equivalent to the species, phantasms, representations of
the older psychology; the real existence, matter itself, which he distinguishes from the perception
of it, this is the remote object of the mind, and is precisely equivalent to the mediate or
represented object of the older psychology. He and therepresentationists, moreover, agree in
hold ing that the latter is the object of belief rather than of knowledge.

The merits of Dr Reid, then, as a reformer of philosophy, amount in our opinion to this:--he
was among the first[23] to say and to write that the representative theory of perception was
false and erroneous, and was the fountainhead of scepticism and idealism. But this admission
of his merits must be accompanied by the qualification that he adopted, as the basis of his
philosophy, a principle which rendered nugatory all his protestations. It is of no use to disclaim
a conclusion if we accept the premises which inevitably lead to it. Dr Reid disclaimed the
representative theory, but he embraced its premises, and thus he virtually ratified the conclusions
of the very system which he clamourously denounced. In his language, he is opposed to representationism,
but in his doctrine, he lends it the strongest support, by accepting as the foundation of his
philosophy an analysis of the perception of matter.

In regard to the second end which Dr Reid is supposed to have overtaken,--the establishment
of a doctrine of intuitive as opposed to a doctrine of representative perception, it is unnecessary
to say much. If we have proved him to be a representationist, he cannot be held to be an intuitionist.
Indeed, a doctrine of intuitive perception is a sheer impossibility upon his principles. A
doctrine of intuition implies that the mind in perceiving matter has only one, namely, a proximate
object. But the analysis of the perception of matter yields as its result, a remote as well
as a proximate object. The proximate object is the perception--the remote object is the reality.
And thus the analysis of the given fact necessarily renders abortive every endeavour to construct
a doctrine of intuitive perception. The attempt must end in representationism. The only basis
for a doctrine of intuitive perception which will never give way, is a resolute forbearance
from all analysis of the fact. Do not tamper with it, and you are safe.

Such is the judgment which we are reluctantly compelled to pronounce on the philosophy of Dr
Reid in reference to its two cardinal claims--the refutation of the ideal theory, and the establishment
of a truer doctrine--a doctrine of intuitive perception. In neither of these undertakings do
we think that he has succeeded, and we have exhibited the grounds of our opinion. We do not
blame him for this: he simply missed his way at the outset. Representationism could not possibly
be avoided, neither could intuitionism be possibly fallen in with, on the analytic road which
he took.

But we have not yet done with the consideration of the psychological or analytic doctrine of
perception. We proceed to examine the entanglements in which reason gets involved when she
accepts the perception of matter not in its natural and indissoluble unity, but as analysed
by philosophers into a mental and a material factor. We have still an eye to Dr Reid. He came
to the rescue of reason--how did it fare with him in the struggle?

The analysis so often referred to affords a starting point, as has been shown, to representationism:
it is also the tap-root of scepticism and idealism. These four things hang together in an inevitable
sequence. Scepticism and idealism dog representationism, and representationism dogs the analysis
of the perception of matter, just as obstinately as substance is dogged by shadow. More explicitly
stated, the order in which they move is this:--The analysis divides the perception of matter
into perception and matter--two separate things. Upon this, representationism declares, that
the perception is the proximate and that the matter is the remote object of the mind. Then
scepticism declares, that the existence of the matter which has been separated from the perception
is problematical, because it is not the direct object of consciousness, and is consequently
hypothetical. And, last of all, idealism takes up the ball and declares, that this hypothetical
matter is not only problematical, but that it is non-existent. These are the perplexities which
rise up to embarrass reason whenever she is weak enough to accept from philosophers their analysis
of the perception of matter. They are only the just punishment of her infatuated facility.
But what has Reid done to extricate reason from her embarrassments?

We must remember that Reid commenced with analysis, and that consequently he embraced representationism,--in
its spirit, if not positively in its letter. But how did he evade the fangs of scepticism and
idealism--to say nothing of destroying--these sleuth-hounds which on this road were sure to
be down upon his track the moment they got wind of him? We put the question in a less figurative
form,--When scepticism and idealism doubted or denied the independent existence of matter,
how did Reid vindicate it? He faced about and appealed boldly to our instinctive and irresistible
belief in its independent existence.

The crisis of the strife centres in this appeal. In itself, the appeal is perfectly competent
and legitimate. But it may be met, on the part of the sceptic and idealist, by two modes of
tactic. The one tactic is weak, and gives an easy triumph to Dr Reid: the other is more formidable,
and, in our opinion, lays him prostrate.

The first Sceptical Tactic. In answer to Dr Reid's appeal, the sceptic or idealist may say,
"Doubtless we have a belief in the independent existence of matter; but this belief is not
to be trusted. It is an insufficient guarantee for that which it avouches. It does not follow
that a thing is true because we instinctively believe it to be true. It does not follow that
matter exists because we cannot but believe it to exist. You must prove its existence by a
better argument than mere belief."--This mode of meeting the appeal we hold to be pure trifling.
We join issue with Dr Reid in maintaining that our nature is not rooted in delusion, and that
the primitive convictions of common sense, must be accepted as infallible. If the sceptic admits
that we have a natural belief in the independent existence of matter, there is an end to him:
Dr Reid's victory is secure. This first tactic is a feeble and mistaken manoeuvre.

The Second Sceptical Tactic. This position is not so easily turned. The stronghold of the sceptic
and idealist is this: they deny the primitive belief to which Dr Reid appeals to be the fact.
It is not true, they say, that any man believes in the independent existence of matter. And
this is perfectly obvious the moment that it is explained. Matter in its independent existence,
matter per se, is matter disengaged in thought from all perception of it present or remembered.
Now, does any man believe in the existence of such matter? Unquestionably not. No man by any
possibility can. What the matter is which man really believes in shall be explained when we
come to speak of the metaphysical solution of the problem--perhaps sooner. Meanwhile we remark
that Dr Reid's appeal to the conviction of common sense in favour of the existence of matter
per se, is rebutted, and in our opinion triumphantly, by the denial on the part of scepticism
and idealism that any such belief exists. Scepticism and idealism not only deny the independent
existence of matter, but they deny that any man believes in the independent existence of matter.
And in this denial they are most indubitably right. For observe what such a belief requires
as its condition. A man must disengage in thought, a tree, for instance, from the thought of
all perception of it, and then he must believe in its existence thus disengaged. If he has
not disengaged, in his mind, the tree from its perception, (from its present perception, if
the tree be before him--from its remembered perception, if it be not before him,) he cannot
believe in the existence of the tree disengaged from its perception; for the tree is not disengaged
from its perception. But unless he believes in the existence of the tree disengaged from its
perception, he does not believe in the independent existence of the tree,--in the existence
of the tree per se. Now, can the mind by any effort effect this disengagement? The thing is
an absolute impossibility. The condition on which the belief hinges cannot be purified, and
consequently the belief itself cannot be entertained.

People have, then, no belief in the independent existence of matter--that is, in the existence
of matter entirely denuded of perception. This point being proved, what becomes of Dr Reid's
appeal to this belief in support of matter's independent existence? It has not only no force;
it has no meaning. This second tactic is invincible. Scepticism and idealism are perfectly
in the right when they refuse to accept as the guarantee of independent matter a belief which
itself has no manner of existence. How can they be vanquished by an appeal to a nonentity?

A question may here be raised. If the belief in question be not the fact, what has hitherto
prevented scepticism from putting a final extinguisher on Reid's appeal by proving that no
such belief exists? A very sufficient reason has prevented scepticism, from doing this--from
explicitly extinguishing the appeal. There is a division of labour in speculation as well as
in other pursuits. It is the sceptic's business simply to deny the existence of the belief:
it is no part of his business to exhibit the grounds of his denial. We have explained these
grounds; but were the sceptic to do this, he would be travelling out of his vocation. Observe
how the case stands. The reason why matter per se is not and cannot be believed in, is because
it is impossible for thought to disengage matter from perception, and consequently it is impossible
for thought to believe in the disengaged existence of matter. The matter to be, believed in
is not disengaged from the perception, consequently it cannot be believed to be disengaged
from the perception. But unless it be believed to be disengaged from the perception, it cannot
be believed to exist per se. In short, as we have already said, the impossibility of complying
with the condition of the belief is the ground on which the sceptic denies the existence of
the belief. But the sceptic is himself debarred from producing these grounds. Why? Because
their exhibition would be tantamount to a rejection of the principle which he has accepted
at the hands of the orthodox and dogmatic psychologist. That principle is the analysis so often
spoken of--the separation, namely, of the perception of matter into perception and matter per
se. The sceptic accepts this analysis. His business is simply to accept, not to discover or
scrutinise principles. Having accepted the analysis, he then denies that any belief attaches
to the existence of matter per se. In this he is quite right. But he cannot, consistently with
his calling, exhibit the ground of his denial; for this ground is, as we have shown, the impossibility
of performing the analysis,--of effecting the requisite disengagement. But the sceptic has
accepted the analysis, has admitted the disengagement. He therefore cannot now retract: and
he has no wish to retract. His special mission--his only object is to confound the principle
which he has accepted by means of the reaction of its consequence. The inevitable consequence
which ensues when the analysis of the perception of matter is admitted is the extinction of
all belief in the existence of matter. The analysis gives us a kind of matter to believe in
to which no belief corresponds. The sceptic is content with pronouncing this to be the fact
without going into its reason. It is not his business to correct, by a direct exposure, the
error of the principle which the dogmatist lays down, and which he accepts. The analysis is
the psychologist's affair; let him look to it. Were the sceptic to make it his, he would emerge,
from the sceptical crisis, and pass into a new stage of speculation. He, indeed, subverts it
indirectly by a reductio ad absurdum. But he does not say that he subverts it--he leaves the
orthodox proposer of the principle to find that out.

Reid totally misconceived the nature of scepticism and idealism in their bearings on this problem.
He regarded them as habits of thought--as dispositions of mind peculiar to certain individuals
of vexatious character and unsound principles, instead of viewing them as catholic eras in
the development of all genuine speculative thinking. In his eyes they were subjective crotchets
limited to some, and not objective crises common to all, who think. He made personal matters
of them--a thing not to be endured. For instance, in dealing with Hume, he conceived that the
scepticism which confronted him in the pages of that great genius, was Hume's scepticism, and
was not the scepticism of human nature at large,--was not his own scepticism just as much as
it was Hume's. His soul, so he thought, was free from the obnoxious flaw, merely because his
anatomy, shallower than Hume's, refused to lay it bare. With such views it was impossible for
Reid to eliminate scepticism and idealism from philosophy. These foes are the foes of each
man's own house and heart, and nothing can be made of them if we attack them in the person
of another. Ultimately and fairly to get rid of them, a man must first of all thoroughly digest
them, and take them up into the vital circulation of his own reason. The only way of putting
them back is by carrying them forward.

From having never properly secreted scepticism and idealism in his own mind, Reid fell into
the commission of one of the gravest errors of which a philosopher can be guilty. He falsified
the fact in regard to our primitive beliefs--a thing which the obnoxious systems against which
he was fighting never did. He conceived that scepticism and idealism called in question a fact
which was countenanced by a natural belief; accordingly, he confronted their denial with the
allegation that the disputed fact--the existence of matter per se--was guaranteed by a primitive
conviction of our nature. But this fact receives no support from any such source. There is
no belief in the whole repository of the mind which can be fitted on to the existence of matter
denuded of all perception. Therefore, in maintaining the contrary, Reid falsified the fact
in regard to our primitive convictions--in regard to those principles of common sense which
he professed to follow as his guide. This was a serious slip. The rash step which he here took
plunged him into a much deeper error than that of the sceptic or idealist. They err[24] in
common with him in accepting as their starting-point the analysis of the perception of matter.
He errs, by himself, in maintaining that there is a belief where no belief exists.

But do not scepticism and idealism doubt matter's existence altogether, or deny to it any kind
of existence? Certainly they do; and in harmony with the principle from which they start they
must do this. The only kind of matter which the analysis of the perception of matter yields,
is matter per se. The existence of such matter is, as we have shown, altogether uncountenanced
either by consciousness or belief. But there is no other kind of matter in the field. We must
therefore either believe in the existence of matter per se, or we must believe in the existence
of no matter whatever. We do not, and we cannot believe in the existence of matter per se;
therefore, we cannot believe in the existence of matter at all. This is not satisfactory, but
it is closely consequential.

But why not, it may be said--why not cut the knot, and set the question at rest, by admitting
at once that every man does, popularly speaking, believe in the existence of matter, and that
he practically walks in the light of that belief during every moment of his life? This observation
tempts us into a digression, and we shall yield to the temptation. The problem of perception
admits of being treated in three several ways: first, we may ignore it altogether,--we may
refuse to entertain it at all; or, secondly, we may discuss it in the manner just proposed--we
may lay it down as gospel that everyman does believe in the existence of matter, and acts at
all times upon this conviction, and we may expatiate diffusely over these smooth truths; or,
thirdly, we may follow and contemplate the subtle and often perplexed windings which reason
takes in working her way through the problem--a problem which, though apparently clearer than
the noonday sun, is really darker than the mysteries of Erebus. In short, we may speculate
the problem. In grappling with it, we may trust ourselves to the mighty current of thinking,
with all its whirling eddies,--certain that if our thinking be genuine objective thinking,
which deals with nothing but ascertained facts--it will bring us at last into the haven of
truth. We now propose to consider which of these modes of treating the problem is the best;
we shall begin by making a few remarks upon the second, for it was this which brought us to
a stand, and seduced us into the present digression.

It is, no doubt, perfectly true, that we all believe in the existence of matter, and that we
all act up to this belief. But surely that statement is not a thing, to be put into a book
and sold. It is not even a thing which one man is entitled to tell gratuitously to another
man who knows it just as well as he does. It must be admitted upon a moment's reflection, that
to communicate such information is to trifle with people's patience in an intolerable degree,
is to trespass most abominably upon public or upon private indulgence. What, then, shall we
say, when we find this kind of truth not only gravely imparted, but vehemently reiterated and
enforced by scientific men, as it is in the pages of Dr Reid and other celebrated expounders
of the philosophy of the human mind? We shall only say, that the economy of science is less
understood than that of commerce; and that while material articles, such as air and sunshine,
which are accessible to all, are for that reason excluded from the market of trade, many intellectual
wares, which are at least equally accessible, are most preposterously permitted to have a place
in the market of science. Such wares are the instinctive principles of Dr Reid. To inform a
man that the material universe exists, and that he believes in its existence, is to take for
granted that he is an idiot.

The circumstance which led the philosophers of Common Sense to traffic in this kind of article,
was perhaps the notion that truths had a value in communication in proportion to their importance
to mankind. But that is a most mistaken idea. The most important truths have absolutely no
value in communication. The truth that "each of us exists"--the truth "that each of us is the
same person to-day that he was yesterday," the truth that "a material universe exists, and
that we believe in its existence,"--all these are most important truths--most important things
to know. It is difficult to see how we could get on without this knowledge. Yet they are not
worth one straw in communication. And why not? Just for the same reason that atmospheric air,
though absolutely indispensable to our existence, has no value whatever in exchange--this reason
being that we can get, and have already got, both the air and the truths, in unlimited abundance
for nothing,--and thanks to no man. Why give a man what he has already got to his heart's content--why
teach him what he already knows even to repletion?

It is not its importance, then, which confers upon truth its value in communication. In other
words, it is a most superfluous civility for one man to impart truth to another, solely because
it happens to be important. If the important truth be already perfectly well known to the recipient,
and if the imparter of it is aware that the recipient knows it just as well as he does,--"thank
you for nothing" is, we think, the mildest reply that could be made in the circumstances. The
fact is, that the value of truth is measured by precisely the same standard which determines
the value of wealth. This standard is in neither case the importance of the article,--it is
always its difficulty of attainment,--its cost of production. Has labour been expended on its
formation or acquisition; then the article, if a material commodity, has a value in exchange--if
a truth, it has a value in communication. Has no labour been bestowed upon it, and has Nature
herself furnished it to every human being in overflowing abundance, then the thing is altogether
destitute of exchange-value--whether it be an article of matter or of mind. No man can, without
impertinence, transmit or convey such a commodity to his neighbour.

If this be the law on the subject, (and we conceive that it must be so ruled) it settles the
question as to the second mode of dealing with the problem of perception. It establishes the
point that this method of treating the problem is not to be permitted. It is tabooed by the
very nature of things. Air and sunshine are excellent and most important articles, but they
are not things to carry to market in bottles,--because no labour is required to produce them,
and because they are the gratuitous and abundant property of every living soul. In the same
way, the existence of a material universe--and the fact that we believe in its existence--these
are most important truths; but they are not things to take to market in books, and for a like
reason. They are important things to know, but they are not important things to tell. We conceive,
in short, that Nature, by rendering these and similar truths unreservedly patent to the whole
human race, has affixed to them her own contraband,--interdicting their communication; and
that Dr Reid, in making them the staple of his publications, was fighting against an eternal
law. He undertook to teach the world certain truths connected with perception, which by his
own admission the world already knew just as well as he did--and which required no labour for
their production. This way of going to work with any problem, is certainly not the best. These
remarks settle, we think, the general pretensions of the philosophy of Common Sense. In justice,
however, to this philosophy, we must not omit to mention, that Sir William Hamilton has adduced
the evidence of no less than one hundred and six witnesses, whose testimony goes to establish
that it is a [Greek: ktêma es aei]--a perpetual possession, "a joy for ever."

The first and third modes of dealing with our problem remain to be considered. The first mode
ignores the problem altogether, it refuses to have any thing to do with it. Perhaps this mode
is the best of the three. We will not say that it is not: it is at any rate preferable to the
second. But once admit that philosophy is a legitimate occupation, and this mode must be set
aside, for it is a negation of all philosophy. Every thing depends upon this admission. But
the admission is, we conceive, a point which has been already, and long ago decided. Men must
and will philosophise. That being the case, the only alternative left is, that we should discuss
the highest problem of philosophy in the terms of the third mode proposed. We have called this
the speculative method--which means nothing more than that we should expend upon the investigation
the uttermost toil and application of thought; and that we should estimate the truths which
we arrive at, not by the scale of their importance, but by the scale of their difficulty of
attainment,--of their cost of production. Labour, we repeat it, is the standard which measures
the value of truth, as well as the value of wealth.

A still more cogent argument in favour of the strictly speculative treatment of the problem
is this. The problem of perception may be said to be a reversed problem. What are the means
in every other problem, are in this problem the end--and what is the end in every other problem,
is in this problem the means. In every other problem the solution of the problem is the end
desiderated: the means are the thinking requisite for its solution. But here the case is inverted.
In our problem the desiderated solution is the means, the end is the development, or, we should
rather say, the creation of speculative thought--a kind of thought different altogether from
ordinary popular thinking. "Oh! then," some one will perhaps exclaim, "after all, the whole
question about perception resolves it into a mere gymnastic of the mind." Good sir--do you
know what you are saying? Do you think that the mind itself is any thing except a mere gymnastic
of the mind. If you do--you are most deplorably mistaken. Most assuredly the mind only is what
the mind does. The existence of thought is the exercise of thought. Now if this be true, there
is the strongest possible reason for treating the problem after a purely speculative fashion.
The problem and its desired solution--these are only the means which enable a new species of
thinking, (and that the very highest) viz. speculative thinking, to deploy into existence.
This deployment is the end. But how can this end be attained if we check the speculative evolution
in its first movements, by throwing ourselves into the arms of the apparently Common Sense
convictions of Dr Reid? We use the word "apparently," because, in reference to this problem,
the apparently Common Sense convictions of Dr Reid, are not the really Common Sense convictions
of mankind. These latter can only be got at through the severest discipline of speculation.

Our final answer, then, to the question which led us into this digression is this:--It is quite
true that the material world exists: it is quite true that we believe in this existence, and
always act in conformity with our faith. Whole books may be written in confirmation of these
truths. They may be published and paraded in a manner which apparently settles the entire problem
of perception. And yet this is not the right way to go to work. It settles nothing but what
all men, women, and children have already settled. The truths thus formally substantiated were
produced without an effort--every one has already got from Nature at least as much of them
as he cares to have; and therefore, whatever their importance may be, they cannot, with any
sort of propriety, be made the subjects of conveyance from man to man. We must either leave
the problem altogether alone, (a thing, however, which we should have thought of sooner,) or
we must adopt the speculative treatment. The argument, moreover, contained in the preceding
paragraph, appears to render this treatment imperative; and accordingly we now return to it,
after our somewhat lengthened digression.

We must take up the thread of our discourse at the point where we dropped it. The crisis to
which the discussion had conducted us was this; that the existence of matter could not be believed
in at all. The psychological analysis necessarily lands us in this conclusion: for the psychological
analysis gives us, for matter, nothing but matter per se. But matter per se is what no man
does or can believe in. We are reluctant to reiterate the proof; but it is this: to believe
in the existence of matter per se is to believe in the existence of matter liberated from perception;
but we, cannot believe in the existence of matter liberated from perception, for no power of
thinking will liberate matter from perception; therefore, we cannot believe in the existence
of matter per se. This argument admits of being exhibited in a still more forcible form. We
commence with an illustration. If a man believes that a thing exists as one thing, he cannot
believe that this same thing exists as another thing. For instance, if a man believes that
a tree exists as a tree, he cannot believe that it exists as a house. Apply this to the subject
in hand. If a man believes that matter exists as a thing not disengaged from perception, he
cannot believe that it exists as a thing disengaged from perception. Now, there cannot be a
doubt that the only kind of matter in which man believes is matter not disengaged from perception.
He therefore cannot believe in matter disengaged from perception. His mind is already preoccupied
by the belief that matter is this one thing, and, therefore, he cannot believe that it is that
other thing. His faith is, in this instance, forestalled, just as much as his faith is forestalled
from believing that a tree is a house, when he already believes that it is a tree.

There are two very good reasons, then, why we cannot believe in the existence of matter at
all, if we accept as our starting point the psychological analysis. This analysis gives us,
for matter, matter per se. But matter per se cannot be believed in; 1st, because the condition
on which the belief depends cannot be complied with; and, 2dly, because the matter which we
already believe in is something quite different from matter per se. In trying to believe in
the existence of matter per se, we always find that we are believing in the existence of something
else, namely, in the existence of matter cum perceptione. But it is not to the psychological
analysis that we are indebted for this matter, which is something else than matter per se.
The psychological analysis does its best to annihilate it. It gives us nothing but matter per
se,--a thing which neither is nor can be believed in. We are thus prevented from believing
in the existence of any kind of matter. In a word, the psychological analysis of the perception
of matter necessarily converts who embrace it into sceptics or idealists.

In this predicament what shall we do? Shall we abandon the analysis as a treacherous principle,
or shall we, with Dr Reid, make one more stand in its defence? In order that the analysis may
have fair play we shall give it another chance, by quoting Mr Stewart's exposition of Reid's
doctrine, which must be regarded as a perfectly faithful representation:--"Dr Reid," says Mr
Stewart, "was the first person who had courage to lay completely aside all the common hypothetical
language concerning perception, and to exhibit the difficulty, in all its magnitude, by a plain
statement of the fact. First, Mr Stewart says that Reid "exhibited the difficulty of the problem
of perception, in all its magnitude, by a plain statement of fact." What does that mean? It
means this; that Reid stated, indeed, the fact correctly--namely, that external objects give
rise to sensations and perceptions, but that still his statement did not penetrate to the heart
of the business, but by his own admission, left the difficulty undiminished. What difficulty?
The difficulty as to how external objects give rise to sensations and perceptions. Reid did
not undertake to settle that point--a wise declinature, in the estimation of Mr Stewart. Now
Mr Stewart, understanding, as he did, the philosophy of causation, ought to have known that
every difficulty as to how one thing gives rise to another, is purely a difficulty of the mind's
creation, and not of nature's making, and is, therefore, no difficulty at all. Let us explain
this,--a man says he knows that fire explodes gunpowder; but he does not know how or by what
means it does this. Suppose, then, he finds out the means, he is still just where he was; he
must again ask how or by what means these discovered means explode the gunpowder; and so on
ad infinitum. Now the mind may quibble with itself for ever, and make what difficulties it
pleases in this way; but there is no real difficulty in the case. In considering any sequence,
we always know the how or the means as soon as we know the that or the fact. These means may
be more proximate or more remote means, but they are invariably given either proximately or
remotely along with and in the fact. As soon as we know that fire explodes gunpowder, we know
how fire explodes gunpowder,--for fire is itself the means which explodes gunpowder,--the how
by which it is ignited. In the same way, if we knew that matter gave rise to perception, there
would be no difficulty as to how it did so. Matter would be itself the means which gave rise
to perception. We conceive, therefore, that Mr Stewart did not consider what he was saying
when he affirmed that Reid's plain statement of facts exhibited the difficulty in all its magnitude.
If Reid's statement be a statement of fact, all difficulty vanishes,--the question of perception
is relieved from every species of perplexity. If it be the fact that perception is consequent
on the presence of matter, Reid must be admitted to have explained, to the satisfaction of
all mankind, how perception is brought about. Matter is itself the means by which it is brought
about.

Secondly, then--Is it the fact that matter gives rise to perception? That is the question.
Is it the fact that these two things stand to each other in the relation of antecedent and
consequent? Reid's "plain statement of fact," as reported by Mr Stewart, maintains that they
do. Reid lays it down as a fact, that perceptions follow sensations, that sensations follow
certain impressions made on our organs of sense by external objects, which stand first in the
series. The sequence, then, is this--1st, Real external objects; 2d, Impressions made on our
organs of sense; 3d, Sensations; 4th, Perceptions. It will simplify the discussion if we leave
out of account Nos. 2 and 3, limiting ourselves to the statement that real objects precede
perceptions. This is declared to be a fact--of course an observed fact; for a fact can with
no sort of propriety be called a fact, unless some person or other has observed it. Reid "laid
completely aside all the common hypothetical language concerning perception." His plain statement
(so says Mr Stewart) contains nothing but facts--facts established, of course, by observation.
It is a fact of observation then, according to Reid, that real objects precede perceptions;
that perceptions follow when real objects are present. Now, when a man proclaims as fact such
a sequence as this, what must he first of all have done? He must have observed the antecedent
before it was followed by the consequent; he must have observed the cause out of combination
with the effect; otherwise his statement is a pure hypothesis or fiction. For instance, when
a man says that a shower of rain (No. 1), is followed by a refreshed vegetation (No. 2), he
must have observed both No. 1 and No. 2, and he must have observed them as two separate things.
Had he never observed any thing but No. 2 (the refreshed vegetation), he might form what conjectures
he pleased in regard to its antecedent, but he never could lay it down as an observed fact,
that this antecedent was a shower of rain. In the same way, when a man affirms it to be a fact
of observation (as Dr Reid does, according to Stewart) that material objects are followed by
perceptions, it is absolutely necessary for the credit of his statement that he should have
observed this to be the case; that he should have observed material objects before they were
followed by perceptions; that he should have observed the antecedent separate from the consequent:
otherwise his statement, instead of being complimented as a plain statement of fact, must be
condemned as a tortuous statement of hypothesis. Unless he has observed No. 1 and No. 2 in
sequence, he is not entitled to declare that this is an observed sequence. Now, did Reid, or
did any man ever observe matter anterior to his perception of it? Had Reid a faculty which
enabled him to catch matter before it had passed in to perception? Did he ever observe it,
as Hudibras says, "undressed?" Mr Stewart implies that he had such a faculty. But the notion
is preposterous. No man can observe matter prior to his perception of it; for his observation
of it presupposes his perception of it. Our observation of matter begins absolutely with the
perception of it. Observation always gives the perception of matter as the first term in the
series, and not matter itself. To pretend (as Reid and Stewart do) that observation can go
behind perception, and lay hold of matter before it has given rise to perception--this is too
ludicrous a doctrine to be even mentioned; and we should not have alluded to it, but for the
countenance which it has received from the two great apostles of common sense.

This last bold attempt, then, on the part of Reid and Stewart (for Stewart adopts the doctrine
which he reports) to prop their tottering analysis on direct observation and experience, must
be pronounced a failure. Reid's "plain statement of fact" is not a true statement of observed
fact; it is a vicious statement of conjectured fact. Observation depones to the existence of
the perception of matter as the first datum with which it has to deal, but it depones to the
existence of nothing anterior to this.

But will not abstract thinking bear out the analysis by yielding to us matter per se as a legitimate
inference of reason? No; it will do nothing of the kind. To make good this inference, observe
what abstract thinking must do. It must bring under the notice of the mind matter per se (No.
1) as something which is not the perception of it (No. 2): but whenever thought tries to bring
No. 1 under the notice of the mind, it is No. 2 (or the perception of matter) which invariably
comes. We may ring for No. 1, but No. 2 always answers the bell. We may labour to construe
a tree per se to the mind, but what we always do construe to the mind is the perception of
a tree. What we want is No. 1, but what we always get is No. 2. To unravel the thing explicitly--the
manner in which we impose upon ourselves is this:--As explanatory of the perceptive process,
we construe to our minds two number twos, and one of these we call No. 1. For example, we have
the perception of a tree (No. 2); we wish to think the tree itself (No. 1) as that which gives
rise to the perception. But this No. 1 is merely No. 2 over again. It is thought of as the
perception of a tree, i. e. as No. 2. We call it the tree itself, or No. 1; but we think it
as the perception of the tree, or as No. 2. The first or explanatory term (the matter per se)
is merely a repetition in thought (though called by a different name) of the second term--the
term to be explained--viz. the perception of matter. Abstract thinking, then, equally with
direct observation, refuses to lend any support to the analysis; for a thing cannot be said
to be analysed when it is merely multiplied or repeated, which is all that abstract thinking
does in regard to the perception of matter. The matter per se, which abstract thinking supposes
that it separates from the perception of matter, is merely an iteration of the perception of
matter.

Our conclusion therefore is, that the analysis of the perception of matter into the two things,
perception and matter (the ordinary psychological principle), must, on all accounts, be abandoned.
It is both treacherous and impracticable.

Before proceeding to consider the metaphysical solution of the problem, we shall gather up
into a few sentences the reasonings which in the preceding discussion are diffused over a considerable
surface. The ordinary, or psychological doctrine of perception, reposes upon an analysis of
the perception of matter into two separate things,--a modification of our minds (the one thing)
consequent on the presence of matter per se, which is the other thing. This analysis inevitably
leads to a theory of representative perception, because it yields as its result a proximate
and a remote object. It is the essence of representationism to recognise both of these as instrumental
in perception. But representationism leads to scepticism--for it is possible that the remote
or real object (matter per se), not being an object of consciousness, may not be instrumental
in the process. Scepticism doubts its instrumentality, and, doubting its instrumentality, it,
of course, doubts its existence; for not being an object of consciousness, its existence is
only postulated in order to account for something which is an object of consciousness, viz.
perception. If, therefore, we doubt that matter has any hand in bringing about perception,
we, of course, doubt the existence of matter. This scepticism does. Idealism denies its instrumentality
and existence. In these circumstances what does Dr Reid do? He admits that matter per se is
not an object of consciousness; but he endeavours to save its existence by an appeal to our
natural and irresistible belief in its existence. But scepticism and idealism doubt and deny
the existence of matter per se, not merely because it is no object of consciousness, but, moreover,
because it is no object of belief. And in this they are perfectly right. It is no object of
belief. Dr Reid's appeal, therefore, goes for nothing. He has put into the witness-box a nonentity.
And scepticism and idealism are at any rate for the present reprieved. But do not scepticism
and idealism go still further in their denial--do they not extend it from a denial in the existence
of matter per se, to a denial in the existence of matter altogether? Yes, and they must do
this. They can only deal with the matter which the psychological analysis affords. The only
kind of matter which the psychological analysis affords is matter per se, and it affords this
as all matter whatsoever. Therefore, in denying the existence of matter per se, scepticism
and idealism must deny the existence of matter out and out. This, then, is the legitimate terminus
to which the accepted analysis conducts us. We are all, as we at present stand, either sceptics
or idealists, every man of us. Shall the analysis, then, be given up? Not if it can be substantiated
by any good plea: for truth must be accepted, be the consequences what they may. Can the analysis,
then, be made good either by observation or by reasoning,--the only competent authorities,
now that belief has been declared hors de combat? Stewart says that Reid made it good by means
of direct observation; but the claim is too ridiculous to be listened to for a single instant.
We have also shown that reasoning is incompetent to make out and support the analysis; and
therefore our conclusion is, that it falls to the ground as a thing altogether impracticable
as well as false, and that the attempt to re-establish it ought never, on any account, to be
renewed.

       *       *       *       *       *

We have dwelt so long on the exposition of the psychological or analytic solution of the problem
of perception, that we have but little space to spare for the discussion of the metaphysical
doctrine. We shall unfold it as briefly as we can.

The principle of the metaphysical doctrine is precisely the opposite of the principle of the
psychological doctrine. The one attempts all analysis; the other forbears from all analysis
of the given fact--the perception of matter. And why does metaphysic make no attempt to dissect
this fact? Simply because the thing cannot be done. The fact yields not to the solvent of thought:
it yields not to the solvent of observation: it yields not to the solvent of belief, for man
has no belief in the existence of matter from which perception (present and remembered) has
been withdrawn. An impotence of the mind does indeed apparently resolve the supposed synthesis:
but essential thinking exposes the imposition, restores the divided elements to their pristine
integrity, and extinguishes the theory which would explain the datum by means of the concurrence
of a subjective or mental, and an objective or material factor. The convicted weakness of psychology
is thus the root which gives strength to metaphysic. The failure of psychology affords to metaphysic
a foundation of adamant. And perhaps no better or more comprehensive description of the object
of metaphysical or speculative philosophy could be given than this,--that it is a science which
exists, and has at all times existed, chiefly for the purpose of exposing the vanity and confounding
the pretensions of what is called the "science of the human mind." The turning-round of thought
from psychology to metaphysic is the true interpretation of the Platonic conversion of the
soul from ignorance to knowledge--from mere opinion to certainty and satisfaction: in other
words, from a discipline in which the thinking is only apparent, to a discipline in which the
thinking is real. Ordinary observation does not reveal to us the real, but only the apparent
revolutions of the celestial orbs. We must call astronomy to our aid if we would reach the
truth. In the same way, ordinary or psychological thinking may show us the apparent movements
of thought--but it is powerless to decipher the real figures described in that mightier than
planetary scheme. Metaphysic alone can teach us to read aright the intellectual skies. Psychology
regards the universe of thought from the Ptolemaic point of view, making man, as this system
made the earth, the centre of the whole: metaphysic regards it from the Copernican point of
view, making God, as this scheme makes the sun, the regulating principle of all. The difference
is as great between "the science of the human mind" and metaphysic, as it is between the Ptolemaic
and the Copernican astronomy, and it is very much of the same kind.

But the opposition between psychology and metaphysic, which we would at present confine ourselves
to the consideration of, is this:--the psychological blindness consists in supposing that the
analysis so often referred to is practicable, and has been made out: the metaphysical insight
consists in seeing that the analysis is null and impracticable. The superiority of metaphysic,
then, does not consist in doing, or in attempting more than psychology. It consists in seeing
that psychology proposes to execute, the impossible, (a thing which psychology does not herself
see, but persists in attempting;) and it consists, moreover, in refraining from this audacious
attempt, and in adopting a humbler, a less adventurous, and a more circumspect method. Metaphysic
(viewed in its ideal character) aims at nothing but what it can fully overtake. It is quite
a mistake to imagine that this science proposes to carry a man beyond the length of his tether.
The psychologist, indeed, launches the mind into imaginary spheres; but metaphysic binds it
down to the fact, and there sternly bids it to abide. That is the profession of the metaphysican,
considered in his beau-ideal. That, too, is the practice (making allowance for the infirmities
incident to humanity, and which prevent the ideal from ever being perfectly realised)--the
practice of all the true astronomers of thought, from Plato down to Schelling and Hegel. If
these philosophers accomplish more than the psychologist, it is only because they attempt much
less.

In taking up the problem of perception all that metaphysic demands is the whole given fact.
That is her only postulate. And it is undoubtedly a stipulation which she is justly entitled
to make. Now, what is, in this case, the whole given fact? When we perceive an object, what
is the whole given fact before us? In stating it, we must not consult elegance of expression:
the whole given fact is this,--"We apprehend the perception of an object." The fact before
us is comprehended wholly in that statement, but in nothing short of it. Now, does metaphysic
give no countenance to an analysis of this fact? That is a new question--a question on which
we have not yet touched. Observe,--the fact which metaphysic declares to be absolutely unsusceptible
of analysis is "the perception of matter." But the fact which we are now considering is a totally
different fact: it is our apprehension of the perception of matter--and it does not follow
that metaphysic will also declare this fact to be ultimate and indecompoundable. Were metaphysic
to do this, it would reduce us to the condition of subjective or egoistic idealism. But metaphysic
is not so absurd. It denies the divisibility of the one fact; but it does itself divide the
other. And it is perfectly competent for metaphysic to do this, inasmuch as "our apprehension
of the perception of matter" is a different fact from "the perception of matter itself." The
former is, in the estimation of metaphysic, susceptible of analysis--the latter is not. Metaphysic
thus escapes the imputation of leading us into subjective idealism. This will become more apparent
as we proceed.

"Our apprehension of the perception of matter,"--this, then, is the whole given fact with which
metaphysic has to deal. And this fact metaphysic proceeds to analyse into a subjective and
an objective factor--giving to the human mind that part of the datum which belongs to the human
mind, and withholding from the human mind that part of the datum to which it has no proper
or exclusive claim. But at what point in the datum does metaphysic insert the dissecting knife,
or introduce the solvent which is to effect the proposed dualisation? At a very different point
from that at which psychology insinuates her "ineffectual fire." Psychology cuts down between
perception and matter, making the former subjective and the latter objective. Metaphysic cuts
down between "our apprehension"--and "the perception of matter;" making the latter, "the perception
of matter," totally objective, and the former, "our apprehension," alone subjective. Admitting,
then, that the total fact we have to deal with is this, "our apprehension of the perception
of matter"--the difference of treatment which this fact experiences at the hand of psychology
and metaphysic is this:--they both divide the fact; but psychology divides it as follows;--"Our
apprehension of the perception of"--that is the subjective part of the datum--the part that
belongs to the human mind;--"Matter per se" is the objective part of the datum, the part of
the datum which exists independently of the human mind. Metaphysic divides it at a different
point, "our apprehension of:" this, according to metaphysic, is the subjective part of the
process--it is all which can with any propriety be attributed to the human mind:--"the perception
of matter," this is the objective part of the datum--the part of it which exists independently
of the human mind--and to the possession of which the human mind has no proper claim--no title
at all.

Before explaining what the grounds are which authorise metaphysic in making a division so different
from the psychological division of the fact which they both discuss, we shall make a few remarks
for the purpose of extirpating, if possible, any lingering prejudice which may still lurk in
the reader's mind in favour of the psychological partition.

According to metaphysic, the perception of matter is not the whole given fact with which we
have to deal in working out this problem--(it is not the whole given fact; for, as we have
said, our apprehension of, or participation in, the perception of matter--this is the whole
given fact);--but the perception of matter is the whole objective part of the given fact. But
it will, perhaps, be asked--Are there not here two given facts? Does not the perception of
matter imply two data? Is not the perception one given fact, and is not the matter itself another
given fact--and are not these two facts perfectly distinct from one another? No: it is the
false analysis of psychologists which we have already exposed that deceives us. But there is
another circumstance which, perhaps, contributes more than any thing else to assist and perpetuate
our delusion. This is the construction of language. We shall take this opportunity to put the
student of philosophy upon his guard against its misleading tendency.

People imagine that because two (or rather three) words are employed to denote the fact, (the
perception of matter,) that therefore there are two separate facts and thoughts corresponding
to these separate words. But it is a great mistake to suppose that the analysis of facts and
thoughts necessarily runs parallel with the analysis of sounds. Man, as Homer says, is [Greek:
merops], or a word-divider; and he often carries this propensity so far as to divide words
where there is no corresponding division of thoughts or of things. This is a very convenient
practice, in so far as the ordinary business of life is concerned: for it saves much circumlocution,
much expenditure of sound. But it runs the risk of making great havoc with scientific thinking;
and there cannot be a doubt that it has helped to confirm psychology in its worst errors, by
leading the unwary thinker to suppose that he has got before him a complete fact or thought,
when he has merely got before him a complete word. There are whole words which, taken by themselves,
have no thoughts or things corresponding to them, any more than there are thoughts and things
corresponding to each of the separate syllables of which these words are composed. The words
"perception" and "matter" are cases in point. These words have no meaning,--they have neither
facts nor thoughts corresponding to them, when taken out of correlation to each other. The
word "perception" must be supplemented (mentally at least) by the words "of matter," before
it has any kind of sense--before it denotes any thing that exists; and in like manner the word
"matter" must be mentally supplemented by the words "perception of," before it has any kind
of sense, or denotes any real existence. The psychologist would think it absurd if any one
were to maintain that there is one separate existence in nature corresponding to the syllable
mat-, and another separate existence corresponding to the syllable ter--the component syllables
of the word "matter." In the estimation of the metaphysician, it is just as ridiculous to suppose
that there is an existing fact or modification in us corresponding to the three syllables perception,
and a fact or existence in nature corresponding to the two syllables matter. The word "perception"
is merely part of a word which, for convenience' sake, is allowed to represent the whole word;
and so is the word "matter." The word "perception-of-matter" is always the one total word--the
word to the mind,--and the existence which this word denotes is a totally objective existence.

But in these remarks we are reiterating (we hope, however, that we are also enforcing) our
previous arguments. No power of the mind can divide into two facts, or two existences, or two
thoughts, that one prominent fact which stands forth in its integrity as the perception-of-matter.
Despite, then, the misleading construction of language--despite the plausible artifices of
psychology, we must just accept this fact as we find it,--that is, we must accept it indissoluble
and entire, and we must keep it indissoluble and entire. We have seen what psychology brought
us to by tampering with it, under the pretence of a spurious, because impracticable analysis.

We proceed to exhibit the grounds upon which the metaphysician claims for the perception of
matter a totally objective existence. The question may be stated thus: Where are we to place
this datum? in our minds or out of our minds? We cannot place part of it in our own minds,
and part of it out of our minds, for it has been proved to be not subject to partition. Whereever
we place it, then, there must we place it whole and undivided. Has the perception of matter,
then, its proper location in the human mind, or has it not? Does its existence depend upon
our existence, or has it a being altogether independent of us?

Now that, and that alone, is the point to decide which our natural belief should be appealed
to; but Dr Reid did not see this. His appeal to the conviction of common sense was premature.
He appealed to this belief without allowing scepticism and idealism to run their full course;
without allowing them to confound the psychological analysis, and thus bring, us back to a
better condition by compelling us to accept the fact, not as given in the spurious analysis
of man, but as given in the eternal synthesis of God. The consequence was, that Reid's appeal
came to naught. Instead of interrogating our belief as to the objective existence of the perception
of matter, (the proper question,) the question which he brought under its notice was the objective
existence of matter per se--matter minus perception. Now, matter per se, or minus perception,
is a thing which no belief will countenance. Reid, however, could not admit this. Having appealed
to the belief, he was compelled to distort its evidence in his own favour, and to force it,
in spite of itself, to bear testimony to the fact which he wished it to establish. Thus Dr
Reid's appeal not only came to naught, but being premature, it drove him, as has been said
and shown, to falsify the primitive convictions of our nature. Scepticism must indeed be terrible,
when it could thus hurry an honest man into a philosophical falsehood.

The question, then, which we have to refer to our natural belief, and abide the answer whatever
it may be, is this:--Is the perception of matter (taken in its integrity, as it must be taken,)
is it a modification of the human mind, or is it not? We answer unhesitatingly for ourselves,
that our belief is, that it is not. This "confession of faith" saves us from the imputation
of subjective idealism, and we care not what other kind of idealism we are charged with. We
can think of no sort of evidence to prove that the perception of matter is a modification of
the human mind, or that the human mind is its proper and exclusive abode: and all our belief
sets in towards the opposite conclusion. Our primitive conviction, when we do nothing to pervert
it, is that the perception of matter is not, either wholly, or in part, a condition of the
human soul; is not bounded in any direction by the narrow limits of our intellectual span,
but that it "dwells apart," a mighty and independent system, a city fitted up and upheld by
the everlasting God. Who told us that we were placed in a world composed of matter, which gives
rise to our subsequent internal perceptions of it, and not that we were let down at once into
a universe composed of external perceptions of matter, that were there beforehand and from
all eternity--and in which we, the creatures of a day, are merely allowed to participate by
the gracious Power to whom they really appertain? We, perversely philosophising, told ourselves
the former of these alternatives; but our better nature, the convictions that we have received
from God himself, assure us that the latter of them is the truth. The latter is by far the
simpler, as well as by far the sublimer doctrine. But it is not on the authority either of
its simplicity or its sublimity, that we venture to propound it--it is on account of its perfect
consonance, both with the primitive convictions of our unsophisticated common sense, and with
the more delicate and complex evidence of our speculative reason.

When a man consults his own nature, in an impartial spirit, he inevitably finds that his genuine
belief in the existence of matter is not a belief in the independent existence of matter per
se--but is a belief in the independent existence of the perception of matter which he is for
the time participating in. The very last thing which he naturally believes in, is, that the
perception is a state of his own mind, and that the matter is something different from it,
and exists apart in naturâ rerum. He they say that he believes this, but he never does really
believe it. At any rate, he believes in the first place that they exist together, wherever
they exist. The perception which a man has of a sheet of paper, does not come before him as
something distinct from the sheet of paper itself. The two are identical: they are indivisible:
they are not two, but one. The only question then is, whether the perception of a sheet of
paper (taken as it must be in its indissoluble totality) is a state of the man's own mind--or
is no such state. And, in settlement of this question, there cannot be a doubt that he believes
in the second place, that the perception of a sheet of paper is not a modification of his own
mind, but is an objective thing which exists altogether independent of him, and one which would
still exist, although he, and all other created beings were annihilated. All that he believes
to be his (or subjective) is his participation in the perception of this object. In a word,
it is the perception of matter, and not matter per se, which is the kind of matter, in the
independent and permanent existence of which man rests and reposes his belief. There is no
truth or satisfaction to be found in any other doctrine.

This metaphysical theory of perception is a doctrine of pure intuitionism: it steers clear
of all the perplexities of representationism; for it gives us in perception only one--that
is, only a proximate object: this object is the perception of matter,--and this is one indivisible
object. It is not, and cannot be, split into a proximate and a remote object. The doctrine,
therefore, is proof against all the cavils of scepticism. We may add, that the entire objectivity
of this datum (which the metaphysical doctrine proclaims) makes it proof against the imputation
of idealism,--at least of every species of absurd or objectionable idealism.

But what are these objective perceptions of matter, and to whom do they belong? This question
leads us to speak of the circumstance which renders the metaphysical doctrine of perception
so truly valuable. This doctrine is valuable chiefly on account of the indestructible foundation
which it affords to the à priori argument in favour of the existence of God. The substance
of the argument is this,--matter is the perception of matter. The perception of matter does
not belong to man; it is no state of the human mind,--man merely participates in it. But it
must belong to some mind,--for perceptions without an intelligence in which they inhere are,
inconceivable and contradictory. They must therefore be the property of the Divine mind; states
of the everlasting intellect; ideas of the Lord and Ruler of all things, and which come before
us as realities,--so forcibly do they contrast themselves with the evanescent and irregular
ideas of our feeble understandings. We must, however, beware, above all things, of regarding
these Divine ideas as mere ideas. An idea, as usually understood, is that from which all reality
has been abstracted; but the perception of matter is a Divine idea, from which the reality
has not been abstracted, and from which it cannot be abstracted.

But what, it will be asked--what becomes of the senses if this doctrine be admitted? What is
their use and office? Just the same as before,--only with this difference, that whereas the
psychological doctrine teaches that the exercise of the senses is the condition upon which
we are permitted to apprehend objective material things--the metaphysical doctrine teaches
that the exercise of the senses is the condition upon which we are permitted to apprehend or
participate in the objective perception of material things. There is no real difficulty in
the question just raised; and therefore, with this explanatory hint, we leave it, our space
being exhausted.

Anticipations of this doctrine are to be found in the writings of every great metaphysician--of
every man that ever speculated. It is announced in the speculations of Malebranche--still more
explicitly in those of Berkeley; but though it forms the substance of their systems, from foundation-stone
to pinnacle, it is not proclaimed with sufficiently unequivocal distinctness by either of these
two great philosophers. Malebranche made the perception of matter totally objective, and vested
the perception in the Divine mind, as we do. But he erred in this respect: having made the
perception of matter altogether objective, he analysed it in its objectivity into perception
(idée) and matter per se. We should rather say that he attempted to do this: and of course
he failed, for the thing, as we have shown, is absolutely impossible. Berkeley made no such
attempt. He regarded the perception of matter as not only totally objective, but as absolutely
indivisible; and therefore we are disposed to regard him as the greatest metaphysician of his
own country--(we do not mean Ireland; but England, Scotland, and Ireland)--at the very least.

When this elaborate edition of Reid's works shall be completed--shall have received its last
consummate polish from the hand of its accomplished editor--we promise to review the many important
topics (partly philosophical and partly physiological) which Sir William Hamilton has discussed
in a manner which is worthy of his own great reputation, and which renders all compliment superfluous.
We are assured that the philosophical public is waiting with anxious impatience for the completion
of these discussions. In the mean time, we heartily recommend the volume to the student of
philosophy as one of the most important works which our higher literature contains, and as
one from which he will derive equal gratification and instruction, whether he agrees with its
contents or not. Edinburgh: Maclachlan, Stewart, & Co. 1846.

[23] Among the first. He was not the first. Berkeley had preceded him in denouncing most unequivocally
the whole theory of representationism. The reason why Berkeley does not get the credit of this
is, because his performance is even more explicit and cogent than his promise. He made no phrase
about refuting the theory--he simply refuted it. Reid said the business--but Berkeley did it.
The two greatest and most unaccountable blunders in the whole history of philosophy are, probably
Reid's allegations that Berkeley was a representationist, and that he was an idealist; understanding
by the word idealist, one who denies the existence of a real external universe. From every
page of his writings, it is obvious that Berkeley was neither the one of these nor the other,
even in the remotest degree.

[24] They err.--This, however, can scarcely be called an error. It is the business of the sceptic
at least to accept the principles generally recognised, and to develop their conclusions, however
absurd or revolting. If the principles are false to begin with, that is no fault of his, but
of those at whose hands he received them.

[25] Elements of the Philosophy of the Human Mind. Part I. ch. i.

       *       *       *       *       *

NOTE in reference to an Article in our last Number, and to PROFESSOR WILSON'S Letter to the
Editor of the Edinburgh Evening Courant, dated 30th June.

MESSRS BLACKWOOD regret to find that some observations regarding the University of Edinburgh,
contained in an article in their last Number, should have occasioned feelings of pain and disapprobation
in one of their earliest and best supporters, Professor Wilson, of whose connexion with the
Magazine they are justly proud, and whose friendship they hope ever to retain undiminished.

These observations did not at the time appear to them in the aspect in which they now see that
they may be regarded. They were fully assured of the meaning and motives of the writer of the
article in question, and conscious themselves of the deepest respect and admiration for the
University of Edinburgh.

They are now, however, sensible that the passage referred to was liable to objections which
they know had not occurred to the writer of the article, but which they, as the parties who
have all along been responsible for the management of the Magazine, ought to have seen and
obviated.

They deeply regret that through this error upon their part Professor Wilson should have felt
it necessary to disclaim what had thus inadvertently been allowed to appear in their pages.

       *       *       *       *       *

Printed by William Blackwood and Sons, Edinburgh.