Bp. Cooper, in speaking of the sect in 1589 (Admonition, &c., p. 146.), terms them "that peevish
faction of the 'Familie of Love,' which have been breeding in this realm the space of these
thirty years."

Fuller (Ch. Hist., 17th cent., p. 610.) says that in his time "they had obtained the name of
Ranters."

Leslie, in his Works (vol. ii. p. 609.), considers the sect "identical with that of the Quakers."

That this was not the case is evident, I conceive, from George Fox, the father of the Quakers,
having severely chastised this "Family of Love," because they would take an oath, dance, sing,
and be cheerful. See Sewel's History of the Quakers, iii. p. 88, 89, 344.

The founder of the sect, Henry Nicolai, was born at Munster, and commenced his career about
1546 in the Netherlands; thence he passed over to England, in the latter years of Edward VI.'s
life, and joined the Dutch congregation. But his sect did not become visible till some time
in the reign of Elizabeth.

In 1575 they presented a confession of their faith to parliament, along with a number of their
books, and prayed toleration.

Nicolai, or Nicolas, their founder, published a number of tracts and letters in Dutch for the
edification of his followers: and now I will propose a Query, in hopes that some of your correspondents
will solve it. Is there extant any list of their writings as presented to parliament in 1575,
and has their confession been published, and when? Perhaps the following works, none of which
I am able to consult, would furnish the means of solving my Query, all of which treat of the
subject:--

    J. Hombeck's Summa Controversiarum. Godfr. Arnold's Kirchen-
    und Kitzer-historie. Ant. Wilh. Bohm's Englische
    Reformations-historie. Schroekh's Kirchengesch. seit der
    Reformation.

{202}

These sources would, I conceive, be useful to N.B., who inquires into their tenets and lives.

I find I have omitted to mention one of their assailants, "the last and most learned," Henry
More, the English divine. See his Mystery of Godliness, book vi., chap. 12-18.

[Hebrew: SP'T]

The Family of Love.--In addition to the work of John Rogers, referred to by DR. RIMBAULT (Vol.
ii., p. 49.), the two following treatises, which were also published in the year 1579, will
present your readers with much curious information respecting the "Family of Love." The first
is entitled,--

    "A Confutation of certaine Articles delivered unto the Familye
    of Loue, with the exposition of Theophilus, a supposed elder in
    the sayd Familye, upon the same Articles, by William Wilkinson,
    Maister of Artes, and student of Divinitye, &c. &c. At London:
    Printed by John Daye, dwelling ouer Aldersgate, Au. 1579."

In the Epistle Dedicatorie, dated Cambridge, September 30, 1579, and addressed to Richard (Cox),
Bishop of Ely, the author describes the new doctrine as,--

    "The most pestiferous and deadly Heresie of all others, because
    there is not almost any one particular erroneous and
    schismaticall phantasie, whereof the Familie of Loue hath not
    borrowed one braunche or other thereof, to peece vnto themselves
    this their Religion."

A passage is then added which may serve in some measure as a reply to N.B. (Vol. ii., p. 89.)
It seems to slow that, however vile might be the theology of this sect, their morals were not
at least publicly offensive.

    "The encrease of this Familie is great, and that dayly,
    because the withstanders are not many; the defenders are wily as
    serpentes, and would fayne in lyfe seeme innocent and
    vnblameable. In profession of the one they boast very much: of
    the other they walkyng very closely do iustifie themselues,
    because fewe haue to finde fault with them, yet haue they their
    lothsome spottes and ougly deformities, as in this booke to the
    diligent reader playnely may appeare."

The "lothsome spottes" here intended are the 13th and 14th articles of Wilkinson's indictment.
They run as follows;--

    (1.) "H.N. (i.e. Henry Nicholas) saith, It is lawfull for one of
    his Familie to dissemble," (i.e., to conceal his religion when
    questioned by the magistrate); and (2.) "H.N. maketh God the
    Author of sinne, and the sinner guiltless," (but no proof is
    alleged that this speculative impiety was carried out into
    actual life).

The title of the second treatise to which I alluded is--

    "A Confutation of monstrous and horrible Heresies, taught by
    H.N., and embraced of a number who call themselves the Familie
    of Love, by I. Knewstub. Imprinted in London, at the Three
    Cranes in the Vinctree, by Thomas Dawson, for Richard Sergies.
    1579."

He characterises the doctrine of the "Familists" as--

    "A masse or packe of Poperie, Arianisme, Anabaptisme, and
    Libertinisme. Respecting their morals we are told, that although
    for their loosenesse of life, they are from the toppe to the toe
    nothing but blottes, yet bragge they of all perfection, euen
    vnto a verie deifying of themselues."

Some further light is thrown upon this point by a letter sent to Knewstub from a "godly learned
man, W.C." He says,--

    "Howsoeuer, they seduce some goodly and zealous men and women of
    honest and godly conuersation, placing them at the porch of
    their synagogue to make a shewe of holinesse, and to stand there
    as baites and stalles to deceiue others; yet, alas! who can
    without blushing vtter the shame that is committed in the
    inwarde roomes, and as it were in the heart of that synagogue of
    Satan."

Appended to Knewstub's book is a further--

    "Confutation of the doctrine of Dauid George, and H.N., the
    father of the Familie of Loue, by M. Martyn Micronius, minister
    of the woorde in the Dutche Churche, at London."

It was originally written in Latin during the reign of Edward VI. The author charges the "Familists"
with maintaining that--

    "Idolatry, superstition, and outwarde vices are free and pure
    vnto them, which, vnder the pretence of a certaine fayth and
    inwarde puritie, boast that they knowe no sinne in the heart."
    (Fo. 87 b.)

Two features particularly distinguish them from other sectaries of the age: they professed
obedience to the civil magistrate, whatever might be his religion; and they argued in favour
of unlimited toleration both in regard to themselves and others.

C.H.

St. Catharine's Hall, Cambridge.

       *       *       *       *       *

TRANSLATION OF THE PHILOBIBLON.

L.S. (Vol. ii, p. 153.) inquires for a "translation of Robert de Bury's Philobiblon." An English
version of this famous treatise by Richard, not Robert Aungerville (see, for the surname, Pits,
p. 467.) de Bury, Bishop of Durham in 1333, was published by Mr. Rodd in the year 1832. The
translator has not given his name, but he was Mr. John Bellingham Inglis, formerly a partner
in the house of Inglis, Ellis, and Co. It is greatly to be desired that there should be a careful
reprint of this most interesting work, and that the first edition of 1473 should be collated
with MSS. The translation by Mr. Inglis might be revised, and made to accompany the Latin text.
Let us hope, however, that his notes, if they be permitted again to appear, may be purified
from scepticism and profaneness.

The claim of Holcot to be the author of this tract, should be well considered and decided upon;
{203} and the errors of the learned Fabricius (who had a manuscript copy in which the writer
was styled "Muiegervile", instead of Aungerville), which have been repeated by Mansi, should
be corrected. Dr. James, the first Bodleian librarian, fell into a strange mistake when he
imagined that his inaccurate reprint at Oxford, in 1599, was the second edition of this treatise.
It was in reality the fourth, having been preceded by the impressions, Colon. 1473; Spiræ,
1483; and Paris, 1500. So far as I remember, the editio princeps has not been specified by
Gough. (Brit. Topog. ii. 121.)

R.G.

I find I can answer the Query of L.S. (Vol. ii., p. l53.), who asks, "Where can I procure a
translation of Robert de Bury's Philobiblon?"

A translation was published by Mr. Rodd, in 1832, of which the following is the title:--

    "Philobiblon: a Treatise on the Love of Books, by Richard de
    Bury, Bishop of Durham, written in MCCCXLIV; and translated from
    the first Edition, MCCCCLXXIII, with some Collations. London:
    Printed for Thomas Rodd, 2 Great Newport Street, Leicester
    Square, 1832."

This translation is a small 8vo. volume, of which there is a copy in the Douce collection in
the Bodleian; at the beginning of which copy, on a fly-leaf, the words, "J.B. Inglis to his
friend F. Douce, Esq.," are written; and opposite, on the inside of the cover, there is written
in pencil, apparently in Douce's own hand, "I had read the MS. of this work before it was printed."

There appears to have existed some difference of opinion with respect to the authorship of
the Philobiblon. Leland, in his Itinerary, ed. 8vo. Oxford 1744, vol. iii. pp. 77, 78, sub
loc. Saresbyri, says,--

    "Ex tabella in Sacello S. Mariæ. Orate pro anima Ricbardi Poure,
    quondam Sarum Episcopi." ...

    "Qui quidem Richardus Episcopus postea translatus fuit ad
    Episcopatum Dunelmensem ... Incipit Prologus in Philobiblon
    Richardi Dunelmensis Episcopi, quem librum compilavit Robertus
    Holcot de Ord. Prædicatorum sub nomine dicti Episcopi."

Still, however, in the appendix to vol. iv. of the Itinerary, p. 164., it is said:--

    "Richardus de Bury, alias Angravyle dictus, episc. Dunelm.,
    scripsit Philobiblon."

Upon Leland's authority, the Bodleian catalogue ascribes the work in question to Robertus Holcot.
Watt, however (Bibl. Brit.), seems to imagine R. de Bury and Holcot to be the same person.
His words are (vol. i. c. 176 ):--"Bury, Richard. Dunelm., alias Robertus Holcot, Bishop of
Durham, and Chancellor and Treasurer of England, in the reign of Edward III.;" and again, under
Holcot's name, "Holcot, Robert, or Richard D. Bury."

The translator (J.B. Inglis) distinguishes in his Preface between these contemporary writers,
and considers R. de Bury to be the undoubted author of this work passing under his name. In
corroboration of his opinion, Mr. Inglis refers to the Biographical and Retrospective Miscellany;
and, in order to prove that the work was finished in the author's lifetime, he produces the words:

    "Quod opus (Philobiblon) Aucklandiæ in habitatione sua
    complevit, 24 die Januarii, anno a communis salutis origine
    1344, ætatis suæ 58, et 11 suæ pontificatus."

and then adds:

    "He died 14 April, 1345. Holcot died in 1349."

There appears to be some confusion about the editions, also, of the Philobiblon. There is an
edition, 4to. Par., apud Gaspar. Philippum, 1500; also edit. secund. 4to. Oxoniæ, 1598; and
it is printed in the Philolog. Epist. ex Bibl. Melch. Goldasti, ed. Lipsiæ, 1674. But prior
to all these is the edition "printed at Cologne, 1473," from which the translation is made,
and which is described by Watt as "the editio princeps, and a work of uncommon rarity."

Query. Why does the Oxford edition of 1598 call itself "editio secundo?" If the Paris edit.
of 1500 so far differ from that of 1473 as to entitle it to be considered a different work,
had the second MS. passed through Holcot's hands?

J. SANSOM.

The translation of Richard de Bury's Philobiblon, by Mr. Inglis, printed in 1832 for the late
Mr. Rodd, is an unsatisfactory performance. The version is bald and spiritless, and some of
the best passages of the original are rendered in language that does no justice to the author's
meaning. His style is so peculiar, so allusive, and so full of metaphor and quotation, and
the work is luminous with "the sparks of so many sciences," that a good translation is a desideratum.

I may inform your correspondent that one has lately been prepared and is announced for publication,
with a memoir of the illustrious bishop. I may add that the Philobiblon has been six times
printed: the last edition, if I remember rightly, was by Dr. James: but some old MS. copies
of this remarkable treatise on the Love of Books exist, with some of which the text used by
the translator should be collated. But, of the publication announced, it would not become me
to say anything more, as the biographer is

Your faithful servant,

W.S.G.

Newcastle-upon-Tyne.

       *       *       *       *       *

ETYMOLOGICAL QUERIES.

(Vol. ii., p. 153.)

The very satisfactory replies of Mr. WAY to some of the Queries of J. MN., given at p. 169-70.,
make us wish for more, which I trust we shall have, should he be supplied with the context
in which the words occur; without which it is difficult {204} to elucidate them fully. In the
meantime, I venture a few suggestions on some of the remaining words.

    "In the fever or the berebarde,"

    "Berbi, O.F., chancre, dartre; a boil, bubo, or tetter,
    commonly attendant upon pestilent fever. 'Correpta fuit
    vehementissima febri. Subtus ejus axillis detectis quoque
    Bubonibus, magnam duritiem ac timorem præ se
    ferentibus.'"--Miraculi S. Francisci Solani, A.S., tom. v.,
    Julii, p. 909.

(See Bullein's Dialogue bothe pleasant and pitiful, wherein is a goalie regimente against the
Fever Pestilence, &c., 1578.)

"Deale," if an interjection (?), may possibly stand for "Deâ," or "Ouy Deâ, Yes, truly! verily!"
&c. (See Cotgrave in v. Deâ.)

"Schunche away".--To shun or shunche is used for to shove, in Sussex. "I shunched him away."

"Wear no iron, nor haircloth, nor irspilles felles"--that is, no skins having hard or bristly
hair like that of goats.

"HIRCIPILUS, Durorum pilorum homines sicut hirci."--Festus.

Here the context clearly leads to this interpretation.

Sabraz, or sabras, is a decoction or infusion. One of the numerous terms which the apothecaries
adopted from the Arabic, in which shabra is a drink.

Sabe, in O.F.; saba, Ital., an inspissated juice or decoction.

    "Sabaricio, a kind of strong drinke made of barley."

I doubt whether Ducange is right in explaining sabrierium in the following passage, by condimentum,
Gallicè saupiquet. It most probably signified a beverage.

    "In omnibus secundis feriis dent illis ova quatuor uniquique
    clerico pinguia, cum bono Sabrierio."

S.W. SINGER.

[We take this opportunity of correcting two errata in the Etymological Queries of our valued
correspondent J. MN.

"Heteneste" should be "heteueste"--"Inclosed heteueste in a stone coffin or tomb:" and in a
later Query "istiled" should be "istihed"--"Let their hesmel be istihed, al without broach."]

       *       *       *       *       *

Replies to Minor Queries.

Lord Richard Christophilus.--CH. (Vol. ii., p. 130.) will probably find as much information
as he requires, if he can consult a small volume in the British Museum (catalogued under the
head of "Isuf, Bassa,") of which the title is--

    "A True Relation of the Conversion and Baptism of Isuf, the
    Turkish Chaons, named Richard Christophilus, 8vo. Lond. 1684."

Also, in the Bodleian Catalogue, under the head of "Bassa (Isuf)," CH. may find--

    "The History of Isuf Bassa, Capt.-General of the Ottoman Army at
    the Invasion of Candia. 8vo. Lond. 1684."

In reference to the former of these volumes, there is a note in the Fasti Oxonienses, ad ann.
1683, v. Thom. White, of which the following is a copy:--

    "Quære, if Tho.
    Lond. 1658. 8vo.' Kenneth." (Athenæ Oxon. ed. Phil. Bliss,
    1820, vol. iv. Fasti, coll. 392, 393.)

J. SANSOM.

Poker.--Among the muniments of the corporation of Bodmin is a certificate of the mayor and
burgesses respecting the claims of the inhabitants of the town to take wood in Dunmere Wood,
belonging to the Priory of Bodmin. The language of it seems to throw light on the origin of
the word pocarius, or poker, which has been so often noticed and discussed. (Antè, Vol. i.,
pp. 185. 218. 236. 269. 281. 323. 369.) The passage also illustrates the Hook or Crook privilege,
which has been already satisfactorily explained. The date is A.D. 1525:

    "We say, and for truth testify that the wood called Dynmure
    Wood, was ever open and common to all burgesses and inhabitants
    of Bodmin till now of late, as well for all manner kind of their
    beasts to common therein, as to have their burden wood, to bear
    and carry away upon their backs, of lop, crop, hook, crook,
    and bag wood; ... always reserving to the Prior the stems of
    the trees for their fuel and building."

(See the Bodmin Register, collected by the Rev. John Wallis, of Bodmin, and printed at Bodmin,
1827-1838, p. 303.)

I presume that bag wood is such wood as can be cut with a hook or crook, and bunched. In another
nearly contemporary petition (Ibid. p. 306.), the same identical privilege is described by
the townsmen as a right to lop and crop with a hook and crook, and to carry away on their backs,
and "none other ways." This explains the former passage, and shows that the wood was probably
carried away on the back in a bag.

The woodward, who carried a bill for such purposes, would also carry a bag, or poke, and might
therefore be very appropriately called a poker.

It will be seen in Halliwell's Dictionary, verb. "Bag" and "Bagging," and in the Hereford Glossary
(London, 1839), verb. "Bag," that bagging is sometimes used to signify cutting; and, more particularly,
cutting for burning.

I mention this, because it may be thought pertinent {205} to the present inquiry; but as this
use of the word has been plausibly supposed to be derived from the Welsh Bach, a hook, it seems
to have nothing to do with a poke.

E. Smirke.

Querela Cantabrigiensis (Vol. ii., p. 168.).--J.M.B. inquires whether anything is known of
the authorship of the Querela Cantabrigiensis? The tract in question appears to have been "written
by Bruno Ryves," the author of Mercurius Rusticus, and some few other treatises, in connexion
with which it is commonly bound. Ryves is described by Watt as "a loyal divine," who was "born
in Dorsetshire," and "died 1677." His Querela was first printed at Oxford in 1646. There was
a second edition in 1647.

In case J.M.B. do not himself intend to send out a new edition of this tract, it is to be hoped
that his Query may induce some one else to do so. Indeed, a reprint of several similar pamphlets
and short treatises, belonging to the same period, might be brought out with great advantage
at this crisis. The series might begin with

    "The Answere of the Vice-Chancellour, the Doctors, both the
    Proctors, and other the Heads of Houses in the Universitie of
    Oxford:

    "(Agreeable, undoubtedly, to the joint and uniforme opinion of
    all the Deanes and Chapters, and all other the learned and
    obedient Cleargy in the Church of England:)

    "To the humble Petition of the Ministers of the Church of
    England, desiring Reformation of certaine ceremonies and abuses
    of the Church. At Oxford: Printed by Joseph Barnes, and are to
    be sold in Paule's Church Yard, at the sign of the Crowne, by
    Simon Waterson, 1603."

J. Sansom.

"One Bell" (Vol ii., p. 166.)--In the sixth edition of the Book of the Church (I believe references
are also given in all editions since the first), Southey gives us his authority for this, "Strype's
Cranmer, p. 266. (edition of 1694.)" The passage occurs in book ii. chap. 26.: "The Duke of
Somerset's death." I quote it from the reprint by the Ecclesiastical History Society (vol.
ii. p. 345.):

    "He (Somerset) is generally charged for the great spoil of
    churches and chapels; defacing ancient tombs and monuments, and
    pulling down the bells in parish churches, and ordering only
    one bell in a steeple, as sufficient to call the people
    together, which set the commonalty almost into a rebellion."

R.B.

August 12.

Fabulous Account of the Lion (Vol. ii., p. 142.).--Jarltzberg is right in supposing that this
is given by Philippe de Thaun. It is, however, of older date. Turner (History of England during
the Middle Ages, vol. iv. chap. iv. p. 209.) gives part of a Latin version of it from the "Physiologus"
of a certain Theobald. The "Physiologus," which is in substance the same as the "Bestiary"
of Philippe de Thaun, occurs, according to Mr. Turner's account of it, in MSS. of the eighth
or ninth century. Anglo-Saxon versions of "The Whale and the Panther" are in the Codex Exoniensis.
In the works of Hildebert, who died Abp. of Tours 1134, a poem called "Physiologus" is printed,
which appears to be the same as that ascribed by Turner to Theobald. The fable and application
of the Lion are the same as those given by Turner, with very trifling variations.

Among the poems ascribed to Abp. Hildebert is an "Epitaphum Magistri Theobaldi," who, I conjecture,
is the same Theobald as the supposed author of the "Physiologus." It is rather long; but there
is nothing to identify Theobaldus except the word "Dervensis." What place this indicates I
know not.

  "Hoc vivente, locus Dervensis floruit, isto
  Sublato, marcet nominis hujus odor."

  Opera Hildeberti, p. 1322., Paris, 1708.

In the Opera Hildeberti there occur some verses on the symbols of the Evangelists. I subjoin
them: though it is perhaps hardly worth while to print any more on this subject.

    ON THE SYMBOLS OF THE EVANGELISTS.

    "Matthæum signat vir, bos Lucain, leo Marcum, Ales discipulum
    qui sine sorde fuit.

    "Matthæo species humana datur, quia scripto Indicat et titulo
    quid Deus egit homo. Os vituli Lucam declarat, qui specialem
    Materiam sumpsit de cruce, Christe tuâ. Effigiat Marcum leo,
    cujus littera clamat Quantâ surrexit vi tua, Christi, caro.
    Discipulum signat species aquilina pudicum, Vox cujus nubes
    transit ad astra volans. Christus homo, Christus vitulus,
    Christus leo, Christus Est avis, in Christo cuncta notare potes.
    Est homo dum vivit, bos dum moritur, leo verò Quando resurgit,
    avis quando superna petit."

    Hildeberti Opera, Paris, 1708, p. 1318.

B.F.

Pomfret on the Thames (Vol. ii., p. 56.).--In a former number N. required to be informed where
the Pons fractus, or Pountfreyt super Thamis, was situate, from whence several documents were
dated by Edward II. This question has puzzled many learned antiquaries, and I do not think
has ever been properly resolved. Both Pons fractus and Pountfreyt occur in Rymer's Foedera,
tomus iii., p. 904. Lond. 1706. If you will permit, I would hazard the conjecture that it was
Kingston Bridge. Till within the last two centuries, the only bridges across the Thames were
London and Kingston; and the latter in the thirteenth century appears to have been in a ruinous
condition. And I find in Rot. Litterar. Clausar. {206} anno 7 Hen. III. (A.D. 1223) memb. 4.
p. 558. "de ponte de Kingeston," that Henry de St. Alban, and Matthew, son of Geoffry de Kingston,
are directed to repair the bridge, date Wednesday, Aug. 9, 1223 and there is also a recurrence
to the same subject, memb. 15. p. 579., dated on Tuesday, Dec. 12, 1223. I would therefore
ask, with submission to those who may be better informed, whether the bridge, though ordered
to be repaired by Henry III., may not have remained in such a dilapidated state in the time
of Edw. II., that it may then have been styled "Pons fractus?"

¶.S.

Walrond Family (Vol. ii., p. 134.).--Among my very numerous Notes relating to the several families
of this name, I find only the following which appears likely to be of any interest to your
correspondent in connection with his Query.

    "Mrs. Ureth, daughter of Lieut.-Col. Walrond, was married to
    James Huish, Esq. of Sidbury, co. Devon, on the 25th July,
    1684."

But it is probable that in so numerous a family there was more than one colonel at that time.
Your correspondent is, no doubt, aware that Burke's Landed Gentry states the names of the wife
and children of Colonel Humphrey Walrond, and that the monument of Humphrey Walrond, Esq.,
who died in 1580, in the church of Ilminster, co. Somerset, exhibits his coat armour quartering
Polton, Fissacre, and Speke, and impaling Popham and another coat, viz., Per fesse indented
quarterly or and sable, in each quarter an annulet counterchanged. This coat of arms I shall
be glad if your correspondent will enable me to assign to its proper family.

S.S.S.

Armenian Language (Vol. ii., p. 136.).--Jarltzberg may refer to two works printed at the press
of the Mechitaristican Society at Venice; 1. Quadro della Storia Letteraria di Armenia, 1829;
and 2. Quadro delle Opere di Vari Autori anticamente tradotte in Armeno, 1825. He may also,
perhaps, be interested by another little work, printed at the same place, 1825, entitled, A
brief Account of the Mechitaristican Society, founded on the Island of St. Lazaro, by Alexander
Goode; in which work it is stated (p. 26.) that "by Lord Byron's assistance a grammar of the
Armenian and English languages was composed by the Rev. Dr. Aucher;" and that "this reverend
gentleman has likewise compiled, with John Brand, Esq., of the University of Cambridge, a dictionary
of the Armenian and English languages."

All these works are in the writer's possession and shall be lent to Jarltzberg if he wishes
to see them, and is not able to find them in any library near him.

M.D.

Genealogical Query (Vol. ii., p. 135)--Sir Philip Courtenay, first of Powderham Castle, fifth
son of Hugh, the second of that name, Earl of Devon, by Margaret de Bohun, grand-daughter of
King Edward I., married Anne, daughter of Sir Thomas Wake of Bisworth, co. Northampton, son
of Hugh, younger son of Baldwin Lord Wake, and had issue three sons and two daughters, of which
Margaret was married to Sir Robert Carey, of Cockington, Knt. See Cleaveland's History of the
Family of Courtenay, pp. 265. 270.

S.S.S.

Richard Baxter's Descendants (Vol. ii, p. 89.).--Your correspondent W.H.B., who wishes for
information respecting the descendants of the celebrated Richard Baxter, describes him to have
been a Northamptonshire man; now this (supposing the Nonconformist divine of that name is meant)
is a mistake, for he was, according to his own account, a Shropshire man. In a narrative of
the most memorable passages of his life and times, by himself, and published soon after his
death under the title of Reliquiæ Baxterianæ, 1696, he says,

    "My father's name was Richard (the son of Richard) Baxter; his
    habitation and estate at a village called Eaton Constantine, a
    mile from the Wrekin Hill, and above half a mile from Severn
    River, and five miles from Shrewsbury in Shropshire. A village
    most pleasantly and healthfully situate. My mother's name was
    Beatrice, the daughter of Richard Adeney of Rowton, a village
    near High Encall, the Lord Newport's seat, in the same county.
    There I was born, A.D. 1615, on the 12th of November, being the
    Lord's Day, in the morning, at the time of divine worship, and
    baptized at High Encall the 19th day following: and there I
    lived from my parents with my grandfather till I was near ten
    years of age, and then was taken home."

He was married on Sept. 10, 1662, to a Miss Charlton. They had no children. The only descendant
of Richard Baxter known to his biographers, was his nephew, William Baxter, a person of considerable
attainments as a scholar and an antiquary. He was born in Shropshire in 1650. He published
several works, and kept an academy for some years at Tottenham Cross, Middlesex, which he gave
up on being chosen master of Mercer's School, London, where he continued for twenty years,
and resigned a short time before his death, which took place in 1723.

Baxter makes mention, at the close of his own Life and Times, of one Richard Baxter, a Sabbatarian
Anabaptist, and says of him, "that he was sent to gaol for refusing the oath of allegiance,
and it went for current that it was I."

H.M. Bealby.

North Brixton.

Duresme and Dunelm (Vol. ii., p. 108.).--Three successive bishops, Morton, Cosin, and Crewe,
took the signature of Duresme after their Christian names. Three successive bishops, Barrington,
{207} Van-Mildert, and the present occupant of the see, have taken the signature of Dunelm.
I think, therefore, J.G.N. is mistaken in saying that the Bishops of Durham have assumed the
French and Latin signatures alternately.

E.H.A.

       *       *       *       *       *

MISCELLANEOUS.

NOTES ON BOOKS, SALES, CATALOGUES, ETC.

That the good service which the English Historical Society has rendered to that branch of our
national literature, for the promotion of which it was instituted, is clearly recognised, is
shown by the fact, that of the small paper copies of the Society's publications, many of the
earlier volumes are now entirely out of print. Of the six volumes of Mr. Kemble's invaluable
Codex Diplomaticus, a work alike honourable to the patriotic zeal of the Society and to the
profound learning of its editor, the first two volumes are, we believe, no longer to be procured.
Good texts of our early chronicles, in an acceptable form, have long been wanted. That want,
the English Historical Society is gradually supplying. Their last publication is now before
us. To Mr. Benjamin Williams, the editor of La Chronique de la Traison et Mort de Richard II.,
Roy d'Angleterre, the Society and the public is now indebted for Henrici Quinti Anglice Regis
Gesta, cum Chronicâ Neustriæ Gallicè, ab anno MCCCCXIV. ad MCCCCXXII., a volume containing
an account of the battle of Agincourt, one of those mighty struggles, the result of which changed
the face of Europe; as well as a detailed narrative of Henry's second expedition to the Continent,
a subject passed over by historians with less attention than it deserves. Mr. Williams' Preface
gives a very interesting notice of the MSS. which he has employed, and the points which they
serve to illustrate, and he has accompanied his text by a number of useful and judicious notes.

A gentleman of Devonshire is preparing for publication a Catalogue of the numerous published
works which relate to the History, Antiquities, Biography, Natural History, and Local Occurrences
of that county, and has already sufficient matter to occupy upwards of seventy octavo pages
in print, and would be glad to receive notices of any rare books and tracts on those subjects
on the shelves of private libraries. A similar work is in contemplation as to existing manuscripts,
ancient and modern, relating to the same county; any information respecting which will be highly
acceptable, and may be forwarded to Mr. William Roberts, 197. High Street, Exeter.

       *       *       *       *       *

BOOKS AND ODD VOLUMES

WANTED TO PURCHASE.

EDWARD'S BOTANICAL REGISTER, BY LINDLEY. Quite complete.

MARSDEN'S ORIENTAL COINS.

GRAY'S MONOGRAPHY OF THE GENUS PHASMI.

PRITCHARD'S MICROSCOPIC CABINET, 1822.

WEBSTER, A BRIEF HISTORY OF EPIDEMIC AND PESTILENTIAL DISEASE. Hartford, 1799.

PHILOSOPHICAL MAGAZINE. The entire series to 1848.

HALL'S LIBRARY ATLAS.

M'COG'S SYNOPSIS OF THE CHARACTERS OF FOSSILS OF IRELAND.

R. GRIFFITH'S NOTICE RESPECTING THE FOSSILS OF THE MOUNTAIN LIMESTONE OF IRELAND, 4to.

DONOVAN'S INSTRUCTIONS FOR COLLECTING AND PRESERVING. 8vo. 1794.

FORSTER'S DIRECTONS IN WHAT MANNER SPECIMENS OF ALL KINDS MAY BE COLLECTED, 8vo. London, 1771.

Odd Volumes

Second Vol. of BIOGRAPHIA ECCLESASTICA, or The Lives of the most Eminent Fathers of the Christian
Church, who flourished in the first Four Centuries and part of the Fifth, adorned with their
Effigies, in 2 vols. London, printed for Tho. Atkinson, at the White Swan, in St. Paul's Church
Yard.

J.B. Will the correspondent from whom we received the account of the Treatise of Equivocation,
printed in No. 41., favour us with the means of addressing a letter to him?

       *       *       *       *       * {208}

WORKS

CONNECTED WITH

ECCLESIASTICAL HISTORY.

In 3 vols. royal 8vo., cloth, price ll. 16s.

THE LETTERS AND JOURNALS OF ROBERT BAILLIE, Principal of the University of Glasgow, 1637-62,
and one of the Commissioners from Scotland to the Westminster Assembly. Edited from the original
MSS., with Memoir, by David Laing, Esq.

(Only a few copies now remain.)

"The Letters abound in allusions to the ecclesiastical affairs of the period, and in characteristic
sketches of the most prominent leaders of the several parties who were then struggling either
for ascendancy or for life."--Eclectic Review.

"We give it no small praise when we say there is, perhaps, no book of that period which will
in the end better reward the trouble of reading."--Westminster Review.

       *       *       *       *       *

In 3 vols. royal 8vo., cloth, price 1l. 11s. 6d.

THE PRESBYTERIAN'S ARMOURY, containing the works of George Gillespie, Rutherford's "Lex Rex,
or the Laws and the Prince," Brown's "Apologetical Relation," Calderwood's "Pastor and Prelate,"
&c.

"We have already expressed a high opinion of the style in which these works have been got up,
and the works themselves are of such a standard character, that they require no encomium from
us to recommend them."--Witness.

       *       *       *       *       *

In 2 vols. royal 8vo., cloth, price 1l. 1s.

THE WORKS OF GEORGE GILLESPIE, one of the Commissioners to the Westminster Assembly, with Memoir,
by the Rev. Dr. Hetherington.

"The public are under a lasting debt of gratitude to the publisher for the spirit and enterprise
which he showed in projecting a cheap and uniform edition of the works of George Gillespie.
There are few of the works of our early Scottish writers so worthy of being held in remembrance,
and the republication of them is peculiarly seasonable."--The Warder.

London: Hamilton, Adams, & Co. Edinburgh: Robert Ogle and Oliver and Boyd.

       *       *       *       *       *

Important to Curators of public Libraries and Book Collectors.

The ACTS of the GENERAL ASSEMBLIES of the CHURCH of SCOTLAND. Complete from commencement in
1638 to 1842, inclusive; 9 vols. folio, full bound new in calf, neat, 30l.

