101. [General Court of Appeal, &c.] The Parliament of Canada may, notwithstanding anything
in this Act, from Time to Time, provide for the Constitution, Maintenance, and Organization
of a General Court of Appeal for Canada, and for the Establishment of any additional Courts
for the better Administration of the Laws of Canada.

    VIII.--REVENUES; DEBTS; ASSETS; TAXATION.

102. [Creation of Consolidated Revenue Fund.] All Duties and Revenues over which the respective
Legislatures of Canada, Nova Scotia, and New Brunswick before and at the Union had and have
Power of Appropriation, except such Portions thereof as are by this Act reserved to the respective
Legislatures of the Provinces, or are raised by them in accordance with the special Powers
conferred on them by this Act, shall form One Consolidated Revenue Fund, to be appropriated
for the Public Service of Canada in the Manner and subject to the Charges in this Act provided.

103. [Expenses of Collection, &c.] The Consolidated Revenue Fund of Canada shall be permanently
charged with the Costs, Charges, and Expenses incident to the Collection, Management, and Receipt
thereof, and the same shall form the First Charge thereon, subject to be reviewed and audited
in such Manner as shall be ordered by the Governor General in Council until the Parliament
otherwise provides.

104. [Interest of Provincial Public Debts.] The annual Interest of the Public Debts of the
several Provinces of Canada, Nova Scotia, and New Brunswick at the Union shall form the Second
Charge on the Consolidated Revenue Fund of Canada.

105. [Salary of Governor General.] Unless altered by the Parliament of Canada, the salary of
the Governor General shall be Ten thousand Pounds Sterling Money of the United Kingdom of Great
Britain and Ireland, payable out of the Consolidated Revenue Fund of Canada, and the same shall
form the Third Charge thereon.

106. [Appropriation from time to time.] Subject to the several Payments by this Act charged
on the Consolidated Revenue Fund of Canada, the same shall be appropriated by the Parliament
of Canada for the Public Service.

107. [Transfer of Stocks, &c.] All Stocks, Cash, Banker's Balances, and Securities for Money
belonging to each Province at the time of the Union, except as in this Act mentioned, shall
be the Property of Canada, and shall be taken in Reduction of the Amount of the respective
Debts of the Provinces at the Union.

108. [Transfer of Property in Schedule.] The Public Works and Property of each Province, enumerated
in the Third Schedule to this Act, shall be the Property of Canada.

109. [Property in Lands, Mines, &c.] All Lands, Mines, Minerals, and Royalties belonging to
the several Provinces of Canada, Nova Scotia, and New Brunswick at the Union, and all Sums
then due or payable for such Lands, Mines, Minerals, or Royalties, shall belong to the several
Provinces of Ontario, Quebec, Nova Scotia, and New Brunswick in which the same are situate
or arise, subject to any Trusts existing in respect thereof, and to any Interest other than
that of the Province in the same.

110. [Assets connected with Provincial Debts.] All Assets connected with such Portions of the
Public Debt of each Province as are assumed by that Province shall belong to that Province.

111. [Canada to be liable for Provincial Debts.] Canada shall be liable for the Debts and Liabilities
of each Province existing at the Union.

112. [Debts of Ontario and Quebec.] Ontario and Quebec conjointly shall be liable to Canada
for the Amount (if any) by which the Debt of the Province of Canada exceeds at the Union Sixty-two
million five hundred thousand Dollars, and shall be charged with Interest at the Rate of Five
per Centum per Annum thereon.

113. [Assets of Ontario and Quebec.] The Assets enumerated in the Fourth Schedule to this Act
belonging at the Union to the Province of Canada shall be the Property of Ontario and Quebec
conjointly.

114. [Debt of Nova Scotia.] Nova Scotia shall be liable to Canada for the Amount (if any) by
which its Public Debt exceeds at the Union Eight million Dollars, and shall be charged with
Interest at the Rate of Five per Centum per Annum thereon.

115.

116. [Payment of Interest to Nova Scotia and New Brunswick.] In case the Public Debts of Nova
Scotia and New Brunswick do not at the Union amount to Eight million and Seven million Dollars
respectively, they shall respectively receive by half-yearly Payments in advance from the Government
of Canada Interest at Five per Centum per Annum on the Difference between the actual Amounts
of their respective Debts and such stipulated Amounts.

117. [Provincial Public Property.] The several Provinces shall retain all their respective
Public Property not otherwise disposed of in this Act, subject to the Right of Canada to assume
any Lands or Public Property required for Fortifications or for the Defence of the Country.

118. [Grants to Provinces.] The following Sums shall be paid yearly by Canada to the several
Provinces for the Support of their Governments and Legislatures:

                                 Dollars.
  Ontario . . . . . . . . . . Eighty thousand.
  Quebec . . . . . . . . . . .Seventy thousand.
  Nova Scotia . . . . . . . . Sixty thousand.
  New Brunswick . . . . . . . Fifty thousand.
                             ------------------
                 Two hundred and sixty thousand;

and an annual Grant in aid of each Province shall be made, equal to Eighty Cents per Head of
the Population as ascertained by the Census of One thousand eight hundred and sixty-one, and
in the Case of Nova Scotia and New Brunswick, by each subsequent Decennial Census until the
Population of each of those Two Provinces amounts to Four hundred thousand Souls, at which
Rate such Grant shall thereafter remain. Such Grants shall be in full Settlement of all future
Demands on Canada, and shall be paid half-yearly in advance to each Province; but the Government
of Canada shall deduct from such Grants, as against any Province, all Sums chargeable as Interest
on the Public Debt of that Province in excess of the several Amounts stipulated in this Act.

119. [Further Grant to New Brunswick.] New Brunswick shall receive by half-yearly Payments
in advance from Canada for the Period of Ten Years from the Union an additional Allowance of
Sixty-three thousand Dollars per Annum; but as long as the Public Debt of that Province remains
under Seven million Dollars, a Deduction equal to the Interest at Five per Centum per Annum
on such Deficiency shall be made from that Allowance of Sixty-three thousand Dollars.

120. [Form of Payments.] All Payments to be made under this Act, or in discharge of Liabilities
created under any Act of the Provinces of Canada, Nova Scotia, and New Brunswick respectively,
and assumed by Canada, shall, until the Parliament of Canada otherwise directs, be made in
such Form and Manner as may from Time to Time be ordered by the Governor General in Council.

121. [Canadian Manufactures, &c.] All Articles of the Growth, Produce, or Manufacture of any
one of the Provinces shall, from and after the Union, be admitted free into each of the other
Provinces.

122. [Continuance of customs and excise Laws.] The Customs and Excise Laws of each Province
shall, subject to the Provisions of this Act, continue in force until altered by the Parliament
of Canada.

123. [Exportation and Importation as between Two Provinces.] Where Customs Duties are, at the
Union, leviable on any Goods, Wares, or Merchandises in any Two Provinces, those Goods, Wares,
and Merchandises may, from and after the Union, be imported from one of those Provinces into
the other of them on Proof of Payment of the Customs Duty leviable thereon in the Province
of Exportation, and on Payment of such further Amount (if any) of Customs Duty as is leviable
thereon in the Province of Importation.

124. [Lumber Dues in New Brunswick.] Nothing in this Act shall affect the Right of New Brunswick
to levy the Lumber Dues provided in Chapter Fifteen of Title Three of the Revised Statutes
of New Brunswick, or in any Act amending that Act before or after the Union, and not increasing
the Amount of such Dues; but the Lumber of any of the Provinces other than New Brunswick shall
not be subject to such Dues.

125. [Exemption of Public Lands, &c.] No Lands or Property belonging to Canada or any Province
shall be liable to Taxation.

126.

    IX.--MISCELLANEOUS PROVISIONS.

General.

127. [As to Legislative Councillors of Provinces becoming senators.] If any Person being at
the passing of this Act a Member of the Legislative Council of Canada, Nova Scotia, or New
Brunswick, to whom a Place in the Senate is offered, does not within Thirty Days thereafter,
by Writing under his Hand addressed to the Governor General of the Province of Canada or to
the Lieutenant Governor of Nova Scotia or New Brunswick (as the Case may be), accept the same,
he shall be deemed to have declined the same; and any Person who, being at the passing of this
Act a Member of the Legislative Council of Nova Scotia or New Brunswick, accepts a Place in
the Senate shall thereby vacate his Seat in such Legislative Council.

128. [Oath of Allegiance, &c.] Every Member of the Senate or House of Commons of Canada shall
before taking his Seat therein take and subscribe before the Governor General or some Person
authorized by him, and every Member of a Legislative Council or Legislative Assembly of any
Province shall before taking his Seat therein take and subscribe before the Lieutenant Governor
of the Province or some Person authorized by him, the Oath of Allegiance contained in the Fifth
Schedule to this Act; and every Member of the Senate of Canada and every Member of the Legislative
Council of Quebec shall also, before taking his Seat therein, take and subscribe before the
Governor General, or some Person authorized by him, the Declaration of Qualification contained
in the same Schedule.

129.

130. [Transfer of Officers to Canada.] Until the Parliament of Canada otherwise provides, all
Officers of the several Provinces having Duties to discharge in relation to Matters other than
those coming within the Classes of Subjects by this Act assigned exclusively to the Legislatures
of the Provinces shall be Officers of Canada, and shall continue to discharge the Duties of
their respective Offices under the same Liabilities, Responsibilities, and Penalties as if
the Union had not been made.

131. [Appointment of new Officers.] Until the Parliament of Canada otherwise provides, the
Governor General in Council may from Time to Time appoint such Officers as the Governor General
in Council deems necessary or proper for the effectual Execution of this Act.

132. [Treaty Obligations.] The Parliament and Government of Canada shall have all Powers necessary
or proper for performing the Obligations of Canada or of any Province thereof, as Part of the
British Empire, towards Foreign Countries arising under Treaties between the Empire and such
Foreign Countries.

133. [Use of English and French Languages.] Either the English or the French Language may be
used by any Person in the Debates of the Houses of the Parliament of Canada and of the Houses
of the Legislature of Quebec; and both those Languages shall be used in the respective Records
and Journals of those Houses; and either of those Languages may be used by any Person or in
any Pleading or Process in or issuing from any Court of Canada established under this Act,
and in or from all or any of the Courts of Quebec.

The Acts of the Parliament of Canada and of the Legislature of Quebec shall be printed and
published in both those Languages.

Ontario and Quebec.

134.

135. [Powers, duties, &c., of Executive officers.] Until the Legislature of Ontario or Quebec
otherwise provides, all Rights, Powers, Duties, Functions, Responsibilities, or Authorities
at the passing of this Act vested in or imposed on the Attorney General, Solicitor General,
Secretary and Registrar of the Province of Canada, Minister of Finance, Commissioner of Crown
Lands, Commissioner of Public Works, and Minister of Agriculture and Receiver General, by any
Law, Statute or Ordinance of Upper Canada, Lower Canada, or Canada, and not repugnant to this
Act, shall be vested in or imposed on any Officer to be appointed by the Lieutenant Governor
for the Discharge of the same or any of them; and the Commissioner of Agriculture and Public
Works shall perform the Duties and Functions of the Office of Minister of Agriculture at the
passing of this Act imposed by the Law of the Province of Canada, as well as those of the Commissioner
of Public Works.

136. [Great Seals.] Until altered by the Lieutenant Governor in Council, the Great Seals of
Ontario and Quebec respectively shall be the same, or of the same Design, as those used in
the Provinces of Upper Canada and Lower Canada respectively before their Union as the Province
of Canada.

137. [Construction of temporary Acts.] The Words "and from thence to the End of the then next
ensuing Session of the Legislature," or Words to the same Effect, used in any temporary Act
of the Province of Canada not expired before the Union, shall be construed to extend and apply
to the next Session of the Parliament of Canada if the Subject Matter of the Act is within
the Powers of the same, as defined by this Act, or to the next Sessions of the Legislatures
of Ontario and Quebec respectively, if the Subject Matter of the Act is within the Powers of
the same as defined by this Act.

138. [As to Errors in Names.] From and after the Union the Use of the Words "Upper Canada"
instead of "Ontario," or "Lower Canada" instead of "Quebec," in any Deed, Writ, Process, Pleading,
Document, Matter, or Thing, shall not invalidate the same.

139. [As to Issue of Proclamations before Union, to commence after Union.] Any Proclamation
under the Great Seal of the Province of Canada issued before the Union to take effect at a
Time which is subsequent to the Union, whether relating to that Province, or to Upper Canada,
or to Lower Canada, and the several Matters and Things therein proclaimed shall be and continue
of like Force and Effect as if the Union had not been made.

140. [As to Issue of Proclamations after Union.] Any Proclamation which is authorized by any
Act of the Legislature of the Province of Canada to be issued under the Great Seal of the Province
of Canada, whether relating to that Province, or to Upper Canada, or to Lower Canada, and which
is not issued before the Union, may be issued by the Lieutenant Governor of Ontario or of Quebec,
as its Subject Matter requires, under the Great Seal thereof; and from and after the Issue
of such Proclamation the same and the several Matters and Things therein proclaimed shall be
and continue of the like Force and Effect in Ontario or Quebec as if the Union had not been made.

141. [Penitentiary.] The Penitentiary of the Province of Canada shall, until the Parliament
of Canada otherwise provides, be and continue the Penitentiary of Ontario and of Quebec.

142. [Arbitration respecting Debts, &c.] The Division and Adjustment of the Debts, Credits,
Liabilities, Properties, and Assets of Upper Canada and Lower Canada shall be referred to the
Arbitrament of Three Arbitrators, One chosen by the Government of Ontario, One by the Government
of Quebec, and One by the Government of Canada; and the Selection of the Arbitrators shall
not be made until the Parliament of Canada and the Legislatures of Ontario and Quebec have
met; and the Arbitrator chosen by the Government of Canada shall not be a Resident either in
Ontario or in Quebec.

143. [Division of Records.] The Governor General in Council may from Time to Time order that
such and so many of the Records, Books, and Documents of the Province of Canada as he thinks
fit shall be appropriated and delivered either to Ontario or to Quebec, and the same shall
thenceforth be the Property of that Province; and any Copy thereof or Extract therefrom, duly
certified by the Officer having charge of the Original thereof, shall be admitted as Evidence.

144. [Constitution of Townships in Quebec.] The Lieutenant Governor of Quebec may from Time
to Time, by Proclamation under the Great Seal of the Province, to take effect from a Day to
be appointed therein, constitute Townships in those Parts of the Province of Quebec in which
Townships are not then already constituted, and fix the Metes and Bounds thereof.

    X.--INTERCOLONIAL RAILWAY.

145. [Duty of Government and Parliament of Canada to make Railway herein described.] Inasmuch
as the Provinces of Canada, Nova Scotia, and New Brunswick have joined in a Declaration that
the Construction of the Intercolonial Railway is essential to the Consolidation of the Union
of British North America, and to the Assent thereto of Nova Scotia and New Brunswick, and have
consequently agreed that Provision should be made for its immediate Construction by the Government
of Canada: Therefore, in order to give effect to that Agreement, it shall be the Duty of the
Government and Parliament of Canada to provide for the Commencement within Six Months after
the Union, of a Railway connecting the River St. Lawrence with the City of Halifax in Nova
Scotia, and for the Construction thereof without Intermission, and the Completion thereof with
all practicable Speed.

    XI.--ADMISSION OF OTHER COLONIES.

146.

147. [As to Representation of Newfoundland and Prince Edward Island in Senate.] In case of
the Admission of Newfoundland and Prince Edward Island, or either of them, each shall be entitled
to a Representation in the Senate of Canada of Four Members, and (notwithstanding anything
in this Act) in case of the Admission of Newfoundland the normal Number of Senators shall be
Seventy-six and their maximum Number shall be Eighty-two; but Prince Edward Island when admitted
shall be deemed to be comprised in the third of the Three Divisions into which Canada is, in
relation to the Constitution of the Senate, divided by this Act, and accordingly, after the
Admission of Prince Edward Island, whether Newfoundland is admitted or not, the Representation
of Nova Scotia and New Brunswick in the Senate shall, as Vacancies occur, be reduced from Twelve
to Ten Members respectively, and the Representation of each of those Provinces shall not be
increased at any Time beyond Ten, except under the Provisions of this Act for the Appointment
of Three or Six additional Senators under the Direction of the Queen.

SCHEDULES.

THE FIRST SCHEDULE.

Electoral Districts of Ontario.

A. Existing Electoral Divisions.

Counties.

1. Prescott. 2. Glengarry. 3. Stormont. 4. Dundas. 5. Russell. 6. Carleton. 7. Prince Edward.
8. Halton. 9. Essex.

Ridings of Counties

10. North Riding of Lanark.
11. South Riding of Lanark.
12. North Riding of Leeds and North Riding of Grenville.
13. South Riding of Leeds.
14. South Riding of Grenville.
15. East Riding of Northumberland.
16. West Riding of Northumberland (excepting therefrom the Township
    of South Monaghan).
17. East Riding of Durham.
18. West Riding of Durham.
19. North Riding of Ontario.
20. South Riding of Ontario.
21. East Riding of York.
22. West Riding of York.
23. North Riding of York.
24. North Riding of Wentworth.
25. South Riding of Wentworth.
26. East Riding of Elgin.
27. West Riding of Elgin.
28. North Riding of Waterloo.
29. South Riding of Waterloo.
30. North Riding of Brant.
31. South Riding of Brant.
32. North Riding of Oxford.
33. South Riding of Oxford.
34. East Riding of Middlesex.

Cities, Parts of Cities, and Towns.

35. West Toronto.
36. East Toronto.
37. Hamilton
38. Ottawa
39. Kingston
40. London
41. Town of Brockville, with the Township of Elizabethtown thereto
    attached.
42. Town of Niagara, with the Township of Niagara thereto attached.
43. Town of Cornwall, with the Township of Cornwall thereto attached.

B. New Electoral Divisions.

44. The Provisional Judicial District of ALGOMA.

The County of BRUCE, divided into Two Ridings, to be called respectively the North and South
Ridings:--

45. The North Riding of Bruce to consist of the Townships of Bury,
    Lindsay, Eastnor, Albermarle, Amabel, Arran, Bruce, Elderslie,
    and Saugeen, and the Village of Southampton.

46. The South Riding of Bruce to consist of the Townships of
    Kincardine (including the Village of Kincardine), Greenock,
    Brant, Huron, Kinloss, Culross, and Carrick.

The County of HURON, divided into Two Ridings, to be called respectively the North and South
Ridings:--

47. The North Riding to consist of the Townships of Ashfield,
    Wawanosh, Turnberry, Howick, Morris, Grey, Colborne, Hullett,
    including the Village of Clinton, and McKillop.

48. The South Riding to consist of the Town of Goderich and the
    Townships of Goderich, Tuckersmith, Stanley, Hay, Usborne,
    and Stephen.

The County of MIDDLESEX, divided into three Ridings, to be called respectively the North, West,
and East Ridings:--

49. The North Riding to consist of the Townships of McGillivray and
    Biddulph (taken from the County of Huron), and Williams East,
    Williams West, Adelaide, and Lobo.

50. The West Riding to consist of the Townships of Delaware, Carradoc,
    Metcalfe, Mosa and Ekfrid, and the Village of Strathroy.

[The East Riding to consist of the Townships now embraced therein, and be bounded as it is
at present.]

51. The County of LAMBTON to consist of the Townships of Bosanquet,
    Warwick, Plympton, Sarnia, Moore, Enniskillen, and Brooke, and
    the Town of Sarnia.

52. The County of KENT to consist of the Townships of Chatham,
    Dover, East Tilbury, Romney, Raleigh, and Harwich, and the
    Town of Chatham.

53. The County of BOTHWELL to consist of the Townships of Sombra,
    Dawn, and Euphemia (taken from the County of Lambton), and the
    Townships of Zone, Camden with the Gore thereof, Orford, and
    Howard (taken from the County of Kent).

The County of GREY, divided into Two Ridings, to be called respectively the South and North
Ridings:--

54. The South Riding to consist of the Townships of Bentinck, Glenelg,
    Artemesia, Osprey, Normanby, Egremont, Proton, and Melancthon.

55. The North Riding to consist of the Townships of Collingwood,
    Euphrasia, Holland, Saint-Vincent, Sydenham, Sullivan, Derby,
    and Keppel, Sarawak and Brooke, and the Town of Owen Sound.

The County of PERTH, divided into Two Ridings, to be called respectively the South and North
Ridings:--

56. The North Riding to consist of the Townships of Wallace, Elma,
    Logan, Ellice, Mornington, and North Easthope, and the Town of
    Stratford.

57. The South Riding to consist of the Townships of Blanchard, Downie,
    South Easthope, Fullarton, Hibbert, and the Villages of Mitchell
    and Ste. Marys.

The County of WELLINGTON, divided into Three Ridings, to be called respectively North, South
and Centre Ridings:--

58. The North Riding to consist of the Townships of Amaranth, Arthur,
    Luther, Minto, Maryborough, Peel, and the Village of Mount Forest.

