"Tiens!" she said. "You will do the mourning for us both, it seems. Well, as I never loved
him, you cannot expect me to cry at his death. And I shall get his money, I suppose; the money
that he grudged me in his lifetime: it will be mine now, and I can spend it as I choose. I
thank you for your information, mademoiselle, and I pardon you the insults which you have heaped
upon my head to-night. If I have my regrets, I do not exhibit them in your fashion. Good-night,
mademoiselle: il me faut absolument de l'eau de vie--I can wait for it no longer. Bon soir!"

She turned and left the house as rapidly as she had come. Lettice sank down upon a couch, and
hid her face in the cushion. She could not shed a tear, but she was trembling from head to
foot, and felt sick and faint.

As Cora sauntered along the pavement, turning her head restlessly from side to side, her attention
was caught by a young woman carrying a child, who went in at Lettice's door. Mrs. Walcott stopped
short, and put her finger to her forehead with a bewildered air. "Now where have I seen that
face?" she muttered to herself.

After a moment's reflection, she burst into a short, harsh laugh, and snapped her fingers at
the blind of Lettice's room. "I know now," she said. "Oh yes, I know where I have seen that
face before. This will justify me in the eyes of the world as nothing else has done. Bon soir,
Madame Lettice. Oh, I have a new weapon against you now."

And then she went upon her way, leaving behind her the echo of her wicked laugh upon the still
night air.

CHAPTER XXXIV.

A BRAVE PURPOSE.

If Lettice had not seen Cora when she did, she would probably have gone to the prison that
evening, to ask whether she could not arrange for Alan's funeral, as she could not arrange
for his release. Her spirit was crushed by the blow which had fallen on her, but she could
not give way so long as his body was there to receive the last token of her love. When the
Frenchwoman left her it was too late to see Captain Haynes, even if she had been physically
able to make the attempt.

It never occurred to her to think that any mistake could have been made in the information
she had received from her landlady. The struggle which had been going on in her mind, the consciousness
that she had broken with all her old friends, the exaltation which had possessed her since
she resolved to give to Alan all that was possible for her to give, or seemed to be worth her
giving, the death of his aunt and the thought of his loneliness, had combined to make her nervously
apprehensive. As soon as she had settled down under the shadow of the prison walls, the idea
took hold of her with unaccountable force that the life of Alan was hanging by a thread, and
the news of his death came to her only as the full confirmation of her fears.

But, as it happened, there was another man in the prison named Walters, who had been convicted
of an assault upon his wife some time previously, and had been ill for many months of an internal
complaint which was certain, sooner or later, to end fatally.

A sleepless night brought Lettice no ray of hope, and it was with a heavy and despairing heart
that she went to the governor's residence next morning, and sent up to him the note which she
had written before leaving her room.

Captain Haynes remembered her former visit, and being disengaged at the moment, he came down
at once.

"My dear lady," he said, bustling into the room, "what is the meaning of this letter? What
makes you talk of burying your friend? He has been in this tomb of stone long enough to purge
him of all his offenses, and I am sure you don't want to bury him alive again!"

Lettice started to her feet, gazed at the speaker with straining eyes, and pressed her hands
upon her tumultuous heart.

"Is--he--alive?" she gasped, in scarcely audible words.

"Of course he is alive! I told you when you were here before that he was out of danger. All
he wants now is careful nursing and cheerful company; and I must say that you don't quite look
as if you could give him either."

"Alive--alive! Thank God!"

A great wave of tenderness swept through her heart, and gushed from her eyes in tears that
were eloquent of happiness.

"I was told that he was dead!" She looked at the governor with a smile which disarmed his bluff
tongue.

"I am on the borderland of a romance," he thought, "and a romance of which the ending will
be pleasanter than the beginning, unless I am much mistaken. This is not the wife; it is the
woman he was writing his verses to before he took the fever. The doctor says she has written
the best novel of the year. Novels and poetry--umph! not much in my line."

Then aloud, "you are under a mistake. A man named Walters died yesterday; perhaps that is how
you have been misled. Some rumor of his death must have got abroad. Mr. Walcott is getting
over his illness very nicely; but he will need a good rest, good food, and as much cheerfulness
as you can give him. I told him, just now, that you had arranged to meet him to-morrow, and
I fancy it roused him more than anything Dr. Savill has done for him. I must wish you good-morning,
madam!--but let me impress upon you again, before you go, that he is to be kept perfectly quiet,
free from anxiety, and as cheerful as you can manage to make him."

Captain Haynes was rather ashamed of the laxity into which Miss Campion had drawn him. He was
not accustomed to display so much sympathy with his prisoners, whatever he may have felt in
his own mind. But, to be sure, the case was quite exceptional. He did not have prisoners like
Alan or visitors like Lettice every day. So he had no difficulty in finding excuses for himself.

Lettice walked on air as she came out of the precincts of the jail, which had now lost all
its terrors. In less than twenty-four hours she was to come again, and transport her hero--whom
the dense and cruel world had branded as a criminal--from slavery to freedom, from misery to
peace and joy. The world had cast him out; well, then, let the world stand aside, that she
might give this man what was his due.

What would she say to him? Ah, she dare not think of that beforehand!

What would she do for him? For one thing, she would give him back his self-respect. He had
been the object of scorn and the victim of lying scandals. He should find that the woman he
loved intended from henceforth to take those paltry burdens on herself, and to know no other
praise or merit than that which came to her from him.

He had borne troubles and suffered injuries which before now had driven men to suicide, or
madness, or self-abandonment. In order to save him from any of these things she meant to give
herself into his hands, without terms or conditions, in order that the wrong-doing of the world
might be righted by her act, were it ever so little.

Who could call that a sacrifice which made her heart so light, her step so elastic, her eyes
so bright with hope and satisfaction? It was no sacrifice, but a triumph and reward of the
highest kind that she was preparing for herself. How should she not be happy?

There was no time to be lost if she was to provide all that was necessary for the well-being
and comfort of her patient before to-morrow morning. Everything had to be done at the last
moment. She had been so long in coming to a definite and final resolution to treat this friendless
discharged prisoner as a hero and a king, that it was almost too late to make arrangements.
Why had she not done yesterday something of what she had left to be done to-day? She scarcely
realized to herself that her mind was only just made up. That facile belief in the report of
Alan's death was only the outcome of her distress and perplexity--of the failure of her courage
on the threshold of decision and action.

With a cold shudder she thought of the dust which she had unwittingly thrown in Cora's eyes.
She had told her that her husband was dead, and the tale had been readily believed, for the
very opposite reason to that which had prevailed with herself. She had been convinced by her
fears--Cora by her hopes and greed. And now she could not undeceive the woman, for she did
not know where to find her. Would she if she could? Perhaps it was the the best thing which
could have happened; for it would be terrible if Alan were to step out of his prison back into
the hell on earth which that woman had created for him.

Well, now, at any rate, she must devote herself to the task which she had undertaken. She felt
as a sister might feel who had been suddenly commissioned to provide a home within twenty-four
hours for an invalided traveler; and she set about the work with enthusiasm.

She began by taking Milly in some measure into her confidence, and giving her a number of directions
as to what she was to do in the course of the day. Then she hired a cab, and went to a house-agent
whose name she remembered. That seemed the quickest way of getting what she wanted--a small
furnished house, cheerful and yet retired, which she could take at any rate for a month, and
for longer if she needed it. The agent by good chance had the very thing she asked for. He
turned over the leaves of his register, and presently came upon a desirable bijou residence,
plainly but adequately furnished, containing three reception rooms and five bedrooms, conservatory,
with large and well-stocked garden, lawn and shrubbery, coach-house and stable. Vacant for
three months; very moderate terms to a suitable tenant. That sounded well. The "very moderate
terms" came to something more than Lettice wanted to give; but she had a hundred pounds in
her pocket, and a spirit which disdained to grudge in such a service.

So, having journeyed to Chiswick, and found Bute Lodge to be, if not precisely a jewel amongst
lodges, at any rate clean and comfortable, she came back to the agent with an offer to take
it from month to month, and with a roll of notes ready to clinch the bargain. Money is the
best reference, as she found when she paid a month's rent on the spot, and promised that all
her payments should be in advance. But, as the agent had asked her for a reference of another
kind, Lettice, who had expected this demand, and was prepared for it, gave the name of James
Graham. She ought not to have made use of him without asking him beforehand. She might have
referred to the owner of Maple Cottage, where she had lived when last in London, or even to
her publisher. But she wanted to go and see her old friend Clara; and, woman-like, did a more
important thing to serve as a pretext for a less important.

Clara Graham was delighted to see her again, and the two women had a long and confidential talk.

"I, at any rate," said Clara, "have never doubted his innocence, and I was sure that you would
not."

"Yet you never told me what troubles had fallen upon him!"

"My dear, I thought you must have heard about it all. But the fact was that James asked me
not to mention the trial. Remember, you were not well at the time; and it was a difficult case.
I could not quite assume that your interest would be strong enough to justify me in risking
the loss of your health--perhaps of your life. Really, it is a hard question to deal with--like
one of those cases of conscience (didn't they call them?) which men used to argue for the sake
of having something to do. I stood up for poor Mr. Walcott with my husband; but you know it
is useless to argue against him."

"He believes with the rest of them?"

"Everybody believes alike. I never heard of one who thought that he did not do it."

"Only yourself!"

"Yes, and that was, perhaps, for your sake," said Clara, affectionately.

"And I suppose that I believe in him for his own sake."

"That is natural; but will people think that it is logical?"

"No, they won't," said Lettice, "at all events, not at first. But, gradually perhaps, they
will. I am perfectly convinced that Alan did not stab his wife--because I feel it with a force
that amounts to conviction. You see, I know his character, his past history, the character
and history of his wife, the circumstances in which they were placed at the time. I am sure
he is innocent, and I am going to act up to it. Alan will live down this horrible accusation
and punishment--he will not give way, but will keep his self-respect, and will do infinitely
better work for all the torture he has gone through. And our hope must be this--that when the
world sees him stronger than ever, stronger in every way, and doing stronger work in his vocation,
it will come to believe in him, one by one, beginning with us, until his vindication is brought
about, not by legal proof, which is impossible, but by the same feeling and conviction which
to-day only draw two weak women to the side of an unhappy and discredited man."

"Are you calling yourself a weak woman? You have the strength of a martyr, and in days when
they used to burn women you would have chosen to be a martyr."

"I am not so sure. It is one thing to do what one likes, but quite another thing to burn, which
no one likes."

"Well, you are very brave, and you will succeed as you deserve. But not at first."

"No, not at first. The hardest task will be with Alan, who has been in despair all these months,
and at death's door with fever. He will come out weak, helpless, hopeless; there will be constant
danger of a relapse; and, even if he can be made to forget his despair, it will be very difficult
to restore him to cheerfulness." Her eyes filled with pitying tears as she spoke.

"Only one thing can do that!" Clara stroked her friend's bright brown hair, and kissed her
on the cheek. "With you for his doctor he will soon be well."

"Only two things can do it--a joy greater than his sorrow, and a self-respect greater than
his self-abasement."

Lettice stood up; and the far reaching look that Clara knew so well came into the true and
tender grey eyes, strong with all the rapt purpose of a devoted woman. Her resolutions were
forming and strengthening as she went on. She had been guided by instinct and feeling, but
they were guiding her aright.

There was one thing more in which Clara was a help to her. She took her to an old woman, the
mother of her own parlor-maid, exceptionally clean and respectable, whom Lettice engaged to
go at once to Bute Lodge, taking a younger daughter with her, and make everything ready for
the morrow.

"I shall come and see you soon," said Clara, as they wished each other good-bye.

"Do! And if you can convert your husband----"

"If not, it will not be for want of trying."

It was evening before Lettice was at her lodging again. She had done all that she could think
of--made every preparation and taken every precaution--and now there was nothing left but to
wait until the appointed hour should strike, and Alan should be a free man again.

One concession she made to Mrs. Graham's sense of propriety. There was an old lady who had
once been Clara's governess--a gentle, mild-tongued, unobservant person, who was greatly in
want of a home. Mrs. Alison was easily induced to promise the support of her presence to Lettice
during the days or weeks which Lettice hoped to spend at Bute Lodge. She was a woman of unimpeachable
decorum and respectability, and her presence in the house would, in Clara's opinion, prove
a bulwark against all dangers; but, although evil tongues might be silenced by the fact of
her presence, the old lady was singularly useless in the capacity of chaperon. She was infirm,
a little deaf, and very shy; but her presence in the house was supposed to be a sop to Cerberus,
in the person of Mrs. Grundy, and Clara was less afraid for her friend than she had been before
Mrs. Alison was installed at Bute Lodge.

CHAPTER XXXV.

FROM PRISON TO PARADISE.

Punctually at ten o'clock on the 29th of October a brougham drove up to the gates of the prison
in which Alan Walcott had spent his six months of retreat from the world; and almost immediately
Alan made his appearance, leaning on the arm of a warder.

Lettice hurried to meet him, displacing the warder with a few words of thanks, and repressing
with an effort the painful throbbing of her heart and throat. The sight of his shrunken form
and hollow eyes, as he looked at her with pathetic and childlike trust, for a moment took away
all her strength; but when his hand was laid upon her arm, and she accommodated her steps to
his slow and unsteady movements, he found in her no trace of the weakness she had overcome.

It was clear that he had not yet made a good recovery from his fever. Lettice's last little
qualm of doubt as to the use or need for what she had done disappeared as she saw this wreck
of the man whom she loved--whom she believed to be innocent of offense and persecuted by an
evil fate. What might have become of him if he had been left to crawl out of his prison into
the cold and censorious world, without a friend, a hope, or an interest in life? What lowest
depth of despair might he not have touched if in such a plight as this he should be found and
tortured anew by his old enemy, whose cruelty was evidently not assuaged by the sufferings
she had heaped upon him? Who now would say that he had no need of succor, that her service
was unasked, unwarranted, unwomanly, that the duty of a pure and delicate soul was to leave
him either to his own wife or to the tender mercies of strangers?

The carriage was piled with cushions and shawls, the day was bright and warm, Lettice was full
of light gossip and cheerfulness, and Alan had reason to think that he had never had a more
delightful drive.

"Where are you taking me?" he said, with a smile of restful gratitude, which clearly implied,
"I do not care where it is, so long as I am taken by you!"

"You are going to a convalescent home, where you will be the only patient. If you obey the
rules, you may get well in a month, and the first rule is that you are not to ask questions,
or to think about unpleasant things."

"Are you my nurse?"

"That is the first breach of rules! They are very strict at this home, I can tell you!"

She spoke in a playful mood, but it left him with the impression that he was really being taken
to a "home" of some kind, where he was to be nursed until he was well. He had no objection
to make. He would have gone anywhere with equal pleasure, if he could be sure that she would
be there to look after him. His one thought in prison, when he lay in the grip of fever, was
that he must surely die before his sentence had run out. That was his hope and belief from
day to day; and only when he heard that Lettice had come and made inquiries about him, and
promised to fetch him as soon as he was released, did any real desire for life return to him.
Now, in her presence, he was so completely happy that he forgot all his former sufferings and
despair.

Weak as he was, he would have found words to tell her of his gratitude--and of much more than
gratitude; but this because of, not in spite of, weakness--if she had not carefully checked
him whenever he tried to speak. Fortunately, it was not at all hard to check him. He was infirm
in mind as in body. Apart from the illness, which sapped his energies and paralyzed his power
of thought, he had never thrown off the cloud of callous and despairing indifference which
fell upon him after the fatal scene in Surrey Street. Add to this that the surrender of his
independence to Lettice was in itself a pleasure to him, and we need not wonder that her self-imposed
task seemed to her fairly easy of accomplishment.

At Bute Lodge they found everything very nice and comfortable. Mrs. Jermy and Mrs. Beadon (as
Milly was to be called), who had come earlier in the morning with a cabful of yesterday's purchases,
had carried out Lettice's instructions to the letter. The best room in the house looked out
upon a delightful garden landscape--two borders, backed by well-grown box and bay-trees, holly,
Irish yews, and clambering roses, with a lessening crowd of herbaceous plants in front, dwindling
down to an edge of brilliant annuals on either side; and between these a long and level lawn,
broken near the house by a lofty deodara, and ending in a bowling-green, and a thickly-planted
bank of laurels, beyond which lay a far-off vista of drooping fruit-trees. The garden was reached
through a small conservatory built outside a French window at one end of the room, and a low
verandah ran along the remainder of the garden front.

Inside, all was as Lettice had planned it. A square writing table in front of the window was
covered with a dozen of the books which had made most noise during the past season, with the
November magazines, and the weekly papers which Alan had been wont to read. Milly had cut them
all over night, and here they lay, with an easy-chair beside them, ready to tempt the student
when he felt inclined and able to read. That was not just yet; but Alan saw the pile, and darted
at his guardian angel another look of gratitude from his lustrous, melancholy eyes.

"Why, here," he said, looking round the room and out upon the garden, "a man must get well
only too soon! I shall steadily refuse to mend."

"You will not be able to help yourself," said Lettice. "Now you are going to be left alone----"

"Not alone!"

"For half an-hour at the very least. All this floor belongs to you, and you are to have nothing
to do with stairs. When you want anything you are to ring this bell, and Milly, whom you saw
when we came in, will attend on you. Here, on this sideboard, are wine, and biscuits, and jelly,
and grapes. Sit down and let me give you a glass of wine. We will have some lunch at one, tea
at four, and dinner at seven--but you are to be eating grapes and jelly in between. The doctor
will come and see you every morning."

"What doctor?"

"Why, the doctor of the Establishment, to be sure!"

"Oh, this is an Establishment?"

"Yes."

"It is more rational in its plan than some I have heard of, since it takes in your nurse and
your nurse's maid. Will this precious doctor dine with us?"

"This precious! You are to have great faith in your doctor; but I am sorry to say he will not
be able to dine with us. He has other occupations, you see; and for company I am afraid you
will have to be content with such as your nurse may be disposed to give you!"

Before he could say anything else, she had left the room.

He was alone--alone and happy.

Straight from prison to paradise. That was what the morning's work meant for him, and he could
not think with dry eyes of the peri who had brought him there.

Oh, the bitterness of that dungeon torture, when his heart had been branded with shame and
seared with humiliation; when he had sworn that life had no more hope or savor for him, and
the coming out from his cell had seemed, by anticipation, worse than the going in!

This was the coming out, and he was already radiant with happiness, oblivious of suffering,
hopeful of the future. It was enough, he would not probe it, he would not peer into the dark
corners of his prospect; he would simply realize that his soul had been lost, that it had been
found by Lettice, and that it was hers by right of trover, as well as by absolute surrender.

The mid-day sun shone in at his window and tempted him to the verandah outside. Here he found
one of those chairs, delightful to invalids and lazy men, which are constructed of a few crossed
pieces of wood and a couple of yards of sacking, giving nearly all the luxury of a hammock
without its disturbing element of insecurity. And by its side, wonderful, to relate, there
was a box of cigarettes and some matches. Since they were there, he might as well smoke one.
His last smoke was seven or eight months ago--quite long enough to give a special relish to
this particular roll of Turkish tobacco.

As he lay back in his hammock chair, and sent one ring chasing another to the roof of the verandah,
he heard a step on the gravel beneath him. Lettice, with a basket in one hand and a pair of
scissors in the other, was collecting flowers and leaves for her vases. Unwilling to leave
him too much alone, until she saw how he would bear his solitude, she had come out into the
garden by a door at the other end of the house, and presently, seeing him in the verandah,
approached with a smile.

"Do I look as if I were making myself at home?" he said.

"Quite."

"As soon as I began to smoke, all kinds of things came crowding into my mind."

"Not unpleasant things, I hope?" She said this quickly, being indeed most afraid lest he should
be tempted to dwell on the disagreeable past.

"No, almost all pleasant. And there are things I want to say to you--that I must say to you,
very soon. Do you think I can take for granted all you have done, and all you are doing for
me? Let me come down and join you!"

"No!" she said, with a great deal of firmness in her gesture and tone. "You must not do anything
of the kind until the doctor has seen you; and besides, we can speak very well here."

The verandah was only a few feet above the ground, so that Lettice's head was almost on a level
with his own.

"There is no difficulty about speaking," she went on, "but I want you to let me have the first
word, instead of the last. This is something I wanted to say to you, but I did not know how
to manage it before. It is really very important that you should not fatigue or excite yourself
by talking, and the doctor will tell you so when he comes. Now if you think that you have anything
at all to thank me for, you will promise not to speak to me on any personal matters, not even
your own intentions for the future, for one clear month from to-day! Don't say it is impossible,
because, you see, it is as much as my place (as nurse) is worth to listen to you! If you will
promise, I can stay; and if you will not promise, I must go away."

"That is very hard!"

"But it is very necessary. You promise?"

"Have I any choice? I promise."

"Thank you!" She said this very earnestly, and looked him in the eyes with a smile which was
worth a faggot of promises.

"But you don't expect me to be deaf and dumb all the time?" said Alan.

"No, of course not! I have been told that you ought to be kept as cheerful as possible, and
I mean to do what I can to make you so. Do you like to be read to!"

"Yes, very much."

"Then I will read to you as long as you please, and write your letters, and--if there were
any game----"

"Ah, now, if by good luck you knew chess?"

"I do know chess. I played my father nearly every evening at Angleford."

"What a charming discovery! And that reminds me of something. Is there any reason why I should
not write to Mr. Larmer? He has some belongings of mine, for one thing, which I should like
him to send me, including a set of chess-men."

"No reason at all. But you ought not to write or talk of business, if you can help it, until
you are quite strong."

"Well, then, I won't. I will ask him to send what I want in a cab; and then, when I am declared
capable of managing my own affairs, I will go into town and see him. But the fact is, that
I really feel as well as ever I did in my life!"

"You may feel it, but it is not the case."

And later in the day, Alan was obliged to confess that he had boasted too soon, for there was
a slight return of fever, and the doctor whom Lettice had called in was more emphatic than
she had been as to the necessity for complete rest of mind and body.

So for the next week he was treated quite as an invalid, to his great disgust. Then he fairly
turned the corner, and things began to change for the better again. Lettice read to him, talked,
played chess, found out his tastes in music and in art (tastes in some respects a little primitive,
but singularly fine and true, in spite of their want of training), and played his favorite
airs for him on the piano--some of Mendelssohn's plaintive Lieder, the quainter and statelier
measures of Corelli and Scarlatti, snatches of Schumann and Grieg, and several older and simpler
melodies, for most of which he had to ask by humming a few bars which had impressed themselves
on his memory.

As the month wore itself out, the success of Lettice's experiment was in a fair way of being
justified. She had charmed the evil spirit of despair from Alan's breast, and had won him back
to manly resistance and courageous effort. With returning bodily strength came a greater robustness
of mind, and a resolution--borrowed, perhaps, in the first instance, from his companion--to
be stronger than his persecutors, and rise superior to his troubles.

In the conversations which grew out of their daily readings, Lettice was careful to draw him
as much as possible into literary discussions and criticisms, and Alan found himself dwelling
to an appreciative listener on certain of his own ideas on poetic and dramatic methods. There
is but a step from methods to instances; and when Lettice came into his room one morning--she
never showed herself before mid-day--she saw with delight on the paper before him an unmistakable
stream of verses meandering down the middle of the sheet.

He had set to work! Then he was saved--saved from himself, and from the ghouls that harbor
in a desolate and outraged mind.

If, beyond this, you ask me how she had gained her end, and done the good thing on which she
had set her heart, I cannot tell you, any more than I could make plain the ways in which nature
works to bring all her great and marvelous mysteries to pass. Lettice's achievement, like her
resolution, argued both heart and intellect. Alan would not have yielded to anyone else, and
he yielded to her because he loved her with the feelings and the understanding together. She
had mastered his affections and his intelligence at the same time: she left him to hunger and
thirst up to the moment of his abject abasement, and then she came unasked, unhoped, from her
towering height to his lowest deep, and gave him--herself!

"Do you remember," he said to her once, when he had got her to talk of her successful story,
"that bit of Browning which you quote near the end? Did you ever think that I could be infatuated
enough to apply the words to myself, and take comfort from them in my trouble?"

She blushed and trembled as he looked at her for an answer.

"I meant you to do it!".

"And I knew you meant it!" he said, not without a dangerous touch of triumph in his voice.
"If I were a little bolder than I am, I would carry you to another page of the poet whom we
love, and ask if you ever remembered the words of Constance--words that you did not quote----"

Ten times more deeply she blushed at this, knowing almost by instinct the lines of which he
thought. Had he not asked her to read "In a Balcony" to him the night before, and had she not
found it impossible to keep her voice from trembling when she read Constance's passionate avowal
of her love?

                      "I know the thriftier way
    Of giving--haply, 'tis the wiser way;
    Meaning to give a treasure, I might dole
    Coin after coin out (each, as that were all,
    With a new largess still at each despair),
    And force you keep in sight the deed, preserve
    Exhaustless till the end my part and yours,
    My giving and your taking; both our joys
    Dying together. Is it the wiser way?
    I choose the simpler; I give all at once.
    Know what you have to trust to trade upon!
    Use it, abuse it--anything, but think
    Hereafter, 'Had I known she loved me so,
    And what my means, I might have thriven with it.'
    This is your means. I give you all myself."

And in truth, that was the gift which Lettice offered to him--a gift of herself without stint
or grudging, a gift complete, open-handed, to be measured by his acceptance, not limited by
her reservation, Alan knew it; knew that absolute generosity was the essence of her gift, and
that this woman, so far above him in courage, and self-command, and purity, scorned to close
her fingers on a single coin of the wealth which she held out to him. And he, like Norbert,
answered reverently: "I take you and thank God."

For just because he knew it, and was penetrated to the core by her munificence, he took the
draught of love as from a sacred chalice, which a meaner nature would have grasped as a festal
goblet. He might have grasped it thus, and the sacramental wine would have been a Circe's potion,
and Lettice would have given her gift in vain. But nature does not so miscalculate her highest
moods. "Spirits are not finely touched but to fine issues." Lettice's giving was an act of
faith, and her faith was justified.

This was the true source of Alan's self-respect, and from self-respect there came a strength
greater and more enduring than he had ever known before. Redeemed from the material baseness
of his past when he changed the prison cell for Lettice's ennobling presence, he was now saved
from the mental and moral feebleness to which he might have sunk by the ordeal through which
his soul had passed.

Lettice felt that her work was accomplished, and she was supremely happy. When Clara Graham
kept her promise, and came to see her friend--though she had not been able to bring her husband
with her--she was struck by the blithe gaiety of Lettice's looks and words.

"There is no need to tell me that you are satisfied!" she said, kissing the tender cheeks,
and gazing with wistful earnestness into the eyes that so frankly and bravely met her own.

"Satisfied?" Lettice answered, with something like a sigh. "I never dreamed that satisfaction
could be so complete."

When Alan came in, and Clara, who had expected to see a face lined and marred with sorrow,
found that he too had caught the radiance of unblemished happiness, she felt that Lettice had
not spent her strength in vain. And she went home and renewed her efforts to make her husband
see things as she saw them, and to give Alan Walcott his countenance in the literary world.

But that was a task of no slight difficulty. James Graham had always believed Walcott guilty
of a barbarous attack on his wife; he thought that he had been lightly punished, and would
not admit that he was to be received when he came out of prison as though he had never been
sent there. When Clara told him of Lettice's audacity he was terribly shocked--as indeed were
all who heard the story--and his resentment against Alan increased. The news that they were
happy together did not produce the good effect upon his temper which Clara thought it might
have done.

It was Lettice herself who tackled Mrs. Hartley. She wrote her a long and candid letter, very
apologetic as regarded her conduct in Italy, but quite the opposite when she spoke of what
she had done since she came back to London. The answer was short, but much to the point.

"I thought you would write to me," Mrs. Hartley said, in her note. "I should hardly have forgiven
you if you had not. There is some of your letter which I cannot understand, and some which
I do not quite agree with. But come and explain it to me. I am an old woman, and have no time
to be angry with those I love. Come on Thursday afternoon--alone--and we will have a good talk."

So Lettice went, and made her peace with her old friend, and was admitted to her favor again.
But Alan was on probation still. The last thing which he would have expected, or indeed desired,
was that he should be received and treated by his former acquaintance as though nothing had
happened since he was a welcome guest in their houses. Especially as he and Lettice had not
yet settled the question which all their friends were asking: "How would it end?"

CHAPTER XXXVI.

MISTRESS AND MAID.

Poor Milly Harrington had faithfully kept her promise of amendment. She was as loyal and serviceable
to her mistress as any one could be, and evidently did her utmost to show her gratitude to
Lettice, studying her tastes, and, as far possible, anticipating her wishes. But it was plain
that she was not happy. When not making an effort to be cheerful as part of her daily duty,
she would sit brooding over the past and trembling for the future; and, though she tried to
conceal her hopeless moods, they had not altogether escaped notice.

Lettice was troubled by Milly's unhappiness. She had taken deep pity on the girl, and wanted,
for more reasons than one, to save her from the worst consequences of her mistakes. To see
her, in common parlance, "going to the bad"--ruined in body and in soul--would have been to
Lettice, for Sydney's sake, a burden almost heavier than she could bear. For this reason had
she brought the girl up to London and taken her into her own service again; and from day to
day she watched her with kindly interest and concern.

Milly's good looks could scarcely be said to have come back to her, for she was still thin
and haggard, with the weary look of one to whom life has brought crushing sorrow and sickness
of heart. But her eyes were pretty, and her face, in spite of its worn expression, was interesting
and attractive. Lettice was hardly surprised, although a little startled, to find her talking
one day in a somewhat confidential manner to a man of highly respectable appearance who was
walking across the Common by her side as she came home one day from a shopping expedition.
It was, perhaps, natural that Milly should have acquaintances. But Lettice felt a sudden pang
of anxiety on the girl's account. She did not know whether she had been seen, and whether it
was her duty to speak to her maid about it; but her hesitation was ended by Milly herself,
who came to her room that night, and asked to speak with her.

"Well, Milly?"

"I saw you to-day, Miss Lettice, when I was out," said Milly, coloring with the effort of speech.

"Did you? Yes? You were with a friend--I suppose?"

"I wanted to tell you about him," said Milly, nervously. "It's not a friend of mine, it was
a messenger--a messenger from him."

Lettice sat speechless.

"He does not know what has become of me; and he set this man--his clerk--to find out. He wants
to send me some money--not to see me again. He was afraid that I might be--in want."

"And what have you done, Milly?"

"I said I would not take a penny. And I asked the clerk--Mr. Johnson, they call him--not to
say that he had seen me. I didn't tell him where I lived."

"Did he say that he would not tell his master?"

"Yes, he promised. I think he will keep his word. He seemed--kind--sorry for me, or something."

"You were quite right, Milly. And I would not speak to the man again if I were you. He may
not be so kind and friendly as he seems. I am glad you have told me."

"I couldn't rest till I had spoken. I was afraid you might think harm of me," said the girl,
flushing scarlet again, and twisting the corner of her apron.

"I will not think harm of you if you always tell me about your acquaintances as you have done
to-day," said Lettice with a smile. "Don't be afraid, Milly. And--if you will trust to me--you
need not be anxious about the future, or about the child. I would rather that you did not take
money from anyone but myself for your needs and hers. I have plenty for you both."

Milly could not speak for tears. She went away sobbing, and Lettice was left to think over
this new turn of affairs. Was Sydney's conscience troubling him, she wondered, after all?

This was early in November, soon after she came to Bute Lodge, and as the time went on, she
could not but notice that the signs of trouble in Milly's face increased rather than diminished.
Lettice had a suspicion also that she had not managed to get rid of the man with whom she had
been walking on the Common. She was sure that she saw him in the neighborhood more than once,
and although he never, to her knowledge, spoke to Milly or came to the house, she saw that
Milly sometimes looked unusually agitated and distressed. It was gradually borne in upon Lettice's
mind that she had better learn a little more of the girl's story, for her own sake; and coming
upon her one day with the signs of trouble plainly written on her face, Lettice could not forbear
to speak.

Milly was sitting in a little dressing-room, with some needlework in her hand. The baby was
sleeping in a cradle at her side. She sprang up when Lettice entered; but Lettice made her
sit down again, and then sat down as well.

"What is it, Milly? Is there anything wrong that I don't know of? Come, don't give way. I want
to help you, but how can I do that unless you tell me everything?"

"There is nothing to tell except what you know," said Milly, making an effort to command herself.
"But, sometimes, when I think of it all, I can't help giving way. I did not mean you to see
it though, miss."

"I have never asked you any questions, Milly, about all that happened after you left me, and
I do not want to know more than you wish to tell me. But don't you think I might do something
to place matters on a better footing, if I knew your circumstances a little better?"

"Oh, I could never--never tell you all!" said Milly hiding her face.

"Don't tell me all then. You have called yourself Mrs. Beadon so far. You have heard nothing
of Mr. Beadon lately except what you told me the other day?"

"Only what Mr. Johnson said." Milly averted her head and looked at her child. "The name," she
went on in a low voice, "the name--is not--not Beadon."

"Never mind the name. Perhaps it is as well that you should not tell me. When did you see him
last?"

"In May."

"Never since May?"

"Not once." Milly hung her head and played with the ring on her finger. "He does not want to
see me again!" she broke out almost bitterly.

"Perhaps it is better for you both that he should not. But I will not ask any more," said Lettice.
"I can understand that it must be very painful, either to tell me your story or to conceal it."

"I hate to conceal it from you!" Milly said passionately. "Oh, I wish I had never seen him,
and never listened to him! Yet it was my fault--I have nobody to blame but myself. I have never
forgiven myself for deceiving you so!"

"Ah, if that were the worst, there would not be much to grieve about!"

"I almost think it is the worst. Miss Lettice, may I really tell you my story--all, at least,
that it would be right for you to hear?"

"If you would like to tell me, do! Perhaps I can help you in some way when I know more."

"There are some things I should like you to understand," said Milly, hesitatingly, "though
not because it will take away the blame from me--nothing can do that. When I first knew Mr.
Beadon (I'll call him so, please), I was very giddy and foolish. I longed to see the world,
and thought that all would go well with me then. I don't know where I picked up the idea, but
I had read stories about beautiful women who had had wonderful good fortune, through nothing
at all but their looks--and people had told me I was beautiful--and I was silly enough to think
that I could do great things, as well as those I had read about. I suppose they must have been
very clever and witty--or, perhaps, they had more luck. I wanted to be free and independent;
and I am afraid I was ready to listen to any one who would flatter my vanity, as--as Mr. Beadon
did."

"When did he first begin to say these things to you? Was it after you came to London?"

"Yes--not long after. He was above me in station, and very handsome, and proud; and when he
began to speak to me, though I was all the time afraid of him, and uneasy when I spoke to him,
my head was fairly turned. It shows I was not meant to shine in the world, or I should not
have been so uneasy when I spoke to him. For some time he said nothing out of the way--only
kind words and flattery; but when he found what I had set my heart on, he was always telling
me that I was fit to be a great lady, and to make a noise in the world. That set me all on-fire,
and I could not rest for thinking of what I might do if I could only find my way into society.
It makes me mad to remember what a fool I was!

"But I was not quite bad, Miss Lettice. When he said that he would give me what I wanted--make
me a lady, and all the rest of it--I shrank from doing what I knew to be wrong; or perhaps
I was only afraid. At any rate, I would not listen to him. Then he declared that he loved me
too well to let me go--and he asked me to be his wife."

"Oh!" said Lettice. It was an involuntary sound, and Milly scarcely heard it.

"If you knew," she said, "what a proud and dignified gentleman he was, you would laugh at me
thinking that he really meant what he said, and believing that he would keep his word. But
I did believe it, and I agreed at length to leave you and go away with him."

"Did you think that I should have anything to say against your marriage, Milly?" said Lettice,
mournfully.

"I--I thought you might. And Mr. Beadon asked me not to mention it."

"Well!--and so you trusted him. And then, poor girl, your dream soon came to an end?"

"Not very soon. He kept his word----"

"What?"

"He married me, on the day when I left you. Not in a church, but somewhere--in Fulham, I think.
It looked like a private house, but he said it was a registrar's. Oh, Miss Campion, are you ill?"

Lettice was holding her side. She had turned white, and her heart was throbbing painfully;
but she soon overcame the feeling or at least concealed it.

"No. Go on--go on! He married you!"

"And we went on the Continent together. I was very happy for a time, so long as he seemed happy;
but I could never shake off that uncomfortable fear in his presence. After a while we came
back to London, and then I had to live alone, which of course I did not like. He had taken
very nice rooms for me at Hampstead, where he used to come now and then; and he offered to
bring some friends to visit me; but I did not want him to do that--I cared for nobody but him!"

"Poor Milly!" said Lettice, softly.

"I had been suspicious and uneasy for some time, especially when he told me I had better go
to Birchmead and stay with my grandmother, as he was too busy to come and see me, and the rooms
at Hampstead were expensive. So I went to Birchmead and told them that Mr. Beadon was abroad.
He was not--he was in London--and I went up to see him every now and then; but I wanted to
put the best face on everything. It would have been too hard to tell my grandmother that I
did not think he cared for me."

She stopped and wiped the tears away from her eyes.

"There was worse than that," she said. "I began to believe that I was not his lawful wife,
or he would not behave to me as he did. But I daren't ask, I was so afraid of him. And I felt
as if I could not leave him, even if I was not his wife. That's where the badness of me came
out, you see, Miss Lettice. I would have stayed with him to the end of my days, wife or no
wife, if he had wanted me. But he tired of me very soon."

"Did he tell you so, Milly?"

"He wrote to me to go back to the Hampstead rooms, miss. And I thought that everything was
going to be right between us. I had something to tell him which I thought would please him;
and I hoped--I hoped--even if things had not been quite right about the marriage--that he would
put them straight before my baby came. For the child's sake I thought maybe he wouldn't give
me up. I had been dreadfully afraid; but when he sent for me to London again, I thought that
he loved me still, and that we were going to have a happy time together.

"So I went to Hampstead; but he was not there. He sent his clerk instead--the man you saw me
walking with the other day. And he told me that Mr.----Beadon did not wish to see me again,
that I had been deceived by the mock marriage, and that he sent me twenty pounds, and I might
have more by writing to his clerk. Not to him! I was never to see him or speak to him again."

"And what did you do then, Milly?"

"It was very hard for me. I fainted, and when I came to myself Mr. Johnson was gone, and the
money was stuffed into my pocket. Perhaps it was mean of me to keep it, but I hadn't the heart
or the spirit to send it back. I did not know what I should do without it, for I hadn't a penny
of my own. I stayed for a little time at the Hampstead lodgings, but the landlady got an idea
of the true state of things and abused me shamefully one day for having come into her house;
so I was forced to go. I don't know what I should have done if I hadn't met Mr. Johnson in
the street. He was really kind, though he doesn't look as if he would be. He told me of nice
cheap lodgings, and of some one who would look after me; and he offered me money, but I wouldn't
take it."

"How long did your money last?"

"It was all gone before baby came. I lived on the dresses and presents that Mr. Beadon had
given me. I heard nothing from Birchmead--I did not know that my grandmother was dead, and
I used to think sometimes that I would go to her; but I did not dare. I knew that it would
break her heart to see me as I was."

"Poor girl!" said Lettice again, below her breath.

"You must despise me!" cried Milly, bursting into tears. "And you would despise me still more--if
I told you--everything."

"No, Milly, it is not for me to despise you. I am very, very sorry for you. You have suffered
a great deal, for what was not all your fault."

"Yes, I have suffered, Miss Lettice--more than I can tell you. I had a terrible time when my
baby was born. I had a fever too, and lost my hair; and when I recovered I had nothing left.
I did not know what to do. I thought of throwing myself into the river; and I think I should
have done it when I came to Birchmead and found that grandmother was dead, if it had not been
for you. You found me in the garden that night, just as I had made up my mind. There's a place
across the meadows where one could easily get into a deep pool under the river-bank, and never
come out again. That was where I meant to go."

"No wonder you have looked so ill and worn," said Lettice, compassionately. "What you must
have endured before you brought yourself to that! Well, it is all over now, and you must live
for the future. Put the past behind you; forget it--think of it only with sorrow for your mistakes,
and a determination to use them so that your child shall be better guarded than you have been.
You and your baby have your own lives to live--good and useful lives they may be yet. No one
would blame you if they knew your story, and there is no reason why you should be afraid. I
will always be your friend, Milly, if you will work and strive--it is the only way in which
you can regain and keep your self-respect."

Milly bent her head and kissed Lettice's hand with another outburst of tears. But they were
tears of gratitude, and Lettice did not try to check them now.

Whilst they were still sitting thus, side by side, the servant knocked at the door with a message
for her mistress; and her voice broke strangely through the sympathetic silence that had been
for some time maintained between mistress and maid.

"Mr. Campion wishes to see you, ma'am."

Lettice felt the face which still rested on her hand flush with sudden heat; but when Milly
raised it it was as white as snow. The baby in its cradle stirred and began to wake.

"I will come at once, Mrs. Jermy," said Lettice.

"Milly, you had better finish your work here, and let me give baby to Mrs. Jermy for a few
minutes. She will be quite good if I take her downstairs."

She did not look at Milly as she spoke; or, if she did, she paid no heed to the mute pain and
deprecation in the mother's eyes. Folding the baby in the white shawl that had covered it,
she took it in her arms, and with slow, almost reluctant steps, went down to meet her brother.

Sydney had come upon what he felt to be a painful errand.

Although the session had begun, and the House of Commons was already hard at work on a vain
attempt to thresh out the question of Parliamentary Procedure, he was not yet able to devote
himself to the urgent affairs of the nation, or to seek an opening for that eloquent and fiery
speech which he had elaborated in the intervals of his autumn rest. Before he could set his
mind to these things there was an equally urgent question of domestic procedure which it was
necessary for him to arrange--a question for which he had been more or less prepared ever since
he heard of the flight of Lettice from Florence, but which had assumed the gravest possible
importance within the last few hours.

A terrible and incredible thing had come to the knowledge of Sydney Campion. That morning he
had looked in at his chambers in the Temple, and he had found there, amongst other letters,
one written about three weeks before by Cora Walcott, which had made his blood run cold.

     "SIR,"--the letter ran--"you were just and bold on that day when
     you vindicated my character in the Criminal Court, and procured a
     well-deserved punishment for the husband who had outraged me.
     Therefore it is that I write to give you warning, and to tell you
     that the man Walcott, discharged from prison, has been secretly
     conveyed away by one whom you know, after I had been deceived in a
     most shameful manner with a story of his death in prison. I saw her
     on the day before his release--her and his child--waiting to
     appropriate him, and like an idiot I believed her lies. I know not
     where they hide together, but.... I seek until I find. If you know,
     take my advice, and separate them. I go prepared. You proved last
     time that my husband stabbed me. That was very clever on your part;
     but you will not be able to prove the like thing again, if I should
     meet my husband and your sister together.

     "CORA WALCOTT."

This letter had exasperated Sydney beyond endurance. He did not know Lettice's address; but,
thinking it possible that Mrs. Graham might have it, he went the same afternoon to Edwardes
Square. Clara, being at home, was able, though in some trepidation, to tell him what he wanted;
and thus it was that he found himself at Bute Lodge.

Lettice came into the room where he had been waiting, intrepid, and yet boding something which
could not be entirely pleasant for him, and might be very much the reverse. She did not want
to quarrel with Sydney--she had made many efforts in the past to please him, without much effect,
and had been pained by the increasing interval which separated them from each other. But she
believed that to earn his good word would imply the forsaking of nearly all that she valued,
and the bowing down to images which she could not respect; and therefore she was content that
his good word should be a thing beyond her reach.

She carried the baby on her left arm, and held out her right to Sydney. He barely touched her
fingers.

"You are back again," she said. "I hope you had a pleasant time, and that your wife is well."

"She is pretty well, thank you. We should have gone on to Florence if you had remained there,
as we expected. You have taken your fate in your hands, Lettice, and cut yourself adrift from
those who care for you!"

"Not willingly, Sydney. You might believe that at every step I have done what seemed to be
my duty."

"How can one believe that? I only wish I could. Read this letter!"

She looked at him first, and her eyes flashed at his expression of unbelief. She drew herself
up as she took Cora's letter in her hands, and read it through with a curl of contempt upon
her lips. Then she dropped the paper, and, clasping Milly's child to her breast, looked long
and steadily at her brother.

"Why did you give me that to read?" she said quietly.

"There could be only one reason," he replied; "to ask you if it is true?"

"You ask me? You expect an answer?"

"I don't see why you should object to say 'yes' or 'no' to a charge which, if true, must destroy
all brotherly and sisterly feeling between us."

"But you are my brother! Ask me your own questions, and I will answer. I will not answer that
woman's!"

She stood in front of him, by far the more proud and dignified of the two, and waited for him
to begin.

"Did you bring that man with you here from the prison?"

"I brought Mr. Walcott here."

"And is he here now?"

"Yes."

"What more is there to be said? Wretched woman, it is well for you that your parents are beyond
the reach of this disgrace!"

Whether he meant it or not, he pointed, as he spoke, to the infant in her arms.

Lettice heard a step outside. She went to the door, and spoke in a low voice to Mrs. Jenny.
Then she came back again, and said,

"What do you mean, Sydney, by 'this disgrace'?"

"Can you say one word to palliate what you have already admitted? Can you deny the facts which
speak for themselves? Great Heaven! that such a shameful thing should fall upon us! The name
of Campion has indeed been dragged through the mire of calumny, but never until now has so
dark a stain been cast upon it!"

Theatrical in his words, Sydney was even more theatrical in his action. He stood on the hearth-rug,
raised his hands in horror, and bowed his head in grief and self-pity.

"You pointed at the child just now," said Lettice, steadily; "what do you mean by that?"

"Do not ask me what I mean. Is not its very existence an indelible disgrace?"

"Perhaps it is," she said, kissing the little face which was blinking and smiling at her. "But
to whom?"

"To whom!" Sydney cried, with more of real indignation and anger in his voice. "To its miserable
mother--to its unscrupulous and villainous father!"

Lettice's keen ears caught the sound of light and hesitating footsteps in the passage outside.
She opened the door quickly, and drew in the unfortunate Milly.

Sydney started back, and leaned for support upon the mantelpiece behind him. His face turned
white to the very lips.

"Milly," said the remorseless Lettice, "tell Mr. Campion who is the father of this child!"

The poor mother who had been looking at her mistress in mute appeal, turned her timid eyes
on Sydney's face, then sank upon the floor in an agony of unrestrained weeping.

Except for that sound of passionate weeping, there was complete silence in the room for two
or three minutes, whilst Sydney's better and worse self strove together for the mastery.

"Milly!" he ejaculated at last, in a hoarse undertone, "I did not know! Good God, I did not know."

Then, to his sister--"Leave us alone."

So Lettice went out, but before she went she saw him stride across the floor to Milly and bend
above her as if to raise and perhaps to comfort her. He did not ask to see his sister again.
In a short ten minutes, she saw him walking hastily across the Common to the station, and she
noticed that his head was bent, and that the spring, the confidence of his usual gait and manner
had deserted him. Milly locked herself with her baby in her room, and sobbed until she was
quieted by sheer exhaustion.

But there was on her face next day a look of peace and quietude which Lettice had never seen
before. She said not a word about her interview, and Lettice never knew what had passed between
her brother and the woman whom he had wronged. But she thought sometimes, in after years, that
the extreme of self-abasement in man or woman may prove, to natures not radically bad or hopelessly
weak, a turning-point from which to date their best and most persistent efforts.

CHAPTER XXXVII.

"COURAGE!"

The reawakening of Alan's mind to old tastes and old pursuits, though fitful in the first instance,
soon developed into a steady appetite for work. Much of his former freshness and elasticity
returned; ideas and forms of expression recurred to him without trouble. He had seized on a
dramatic theme suggested in one of the books which Lettice had been reading, and a few days
later admitted to her that he was at work on a poetic drama. She clapped her hands in almost
childlike glee at the news, and Alan, without much need for pressing, read to her a whole scene
which had passed from the phase of thought into written words.

Lettice had already occupied her mornings in writing the story which she had promised to Mr.
MacAlpine. Fortunately for her, she now found little difficulty in taking up the threads of
the romance which she had begun at Florence. The change of feeling and circumstance which had
taken place in her own heart she transferred, with due reservation and appropriate coloring,
to the characters in her story, which thus became as real to her in the London fog as it had
been under the fleckless Tuscan sky.

So long as Alan was out of health and listless, it was not easy for her to apply herself to
this regular morning work. But now that he was fast recovering his spirit and energy, and was
busy with work of his own, she could settle down to her writing with a quiet mind.

Alan had not accepted the hospitality of Lettice without concern or protest, and, of course,
he had no idea of letting her be at the expense of finding food and house-rent for him.

"Why do you not bring me the weekly bills?" he said, with masculine bluntness, after he had
been at Chiswick for nearly three weeks.

She looked at him with a pained expression, and did not answer.

"You don't think that I can live on you in this cool way much longer? You are vexed with me!
Do not be vexed--do not think that I value what you have done for me according to a wretched
standard of money. If I pay everything, instead of you, I shall be far more grateful, and more
truly in your debt."

"But think of my feelings, too!" she said. "I have had my own way so far, because you could
not help it. If you are going to be unkind and tyrannical as soon as you get well, I shall
find it in my heart to be almost sorry. Do not let money considerations come in! You promised
that you would not say anything of the kind before the end of the month."

"I promised something; but I don't think I am breaking my promise in spirit. Look here; I have
not been in retreat for six months without a certain benefit in the way of economy. Here's
a cheque for a hundred pounds. I want you to get it cashed, and to use it."

"I have plenty of money," Lettice said, patting impatiently with her foot on the floor. "I
cannot take this; and until the month is out I will not talk about any kind of business whatsoever.
There, sir!"

Alan did not want to annoy her, and let the subject drop for the time.

"You shall have your way in all things, except that one," he said; "but I will not mention
it again until you give me leave."

The truth is that Lettice did not know what was to happen at the end of the month, or whenever
her tenancy of Bute Lodge might be concluded. How was she to leave Alan, or to turn him out
of doors, when the object of her receiving him should have been accomplished? Was it already
fully accomplished? He had been saved from despair, and from the danger of a physical relapse;
was he now independent of anything she could do for him? It gave her a pang to think of that
possibility, but she would have to think of it and to act upon it very soon. She could not
put off the evil day much beyond the end of November; before Christmas they must come to an
understanding--nay, she must come to an understanding with her own heart; for did not everything
depend on her firmness and resolution?

Not everything! Though she did not know it, Alan was thinking for her just what she could not
think for herself. He could not fail to see that Lettice had staked her reputation to do as
she had done for him. As his perception grew more keen, he saw with increasing clearness. A
man just recovering from serious illness will accept sacrifices from his friends with little
or no demur, which in full health he would not willingly permit. Alan could not have saved
Lettice from the consequences of her own act, even if he had realized its significance from
the first--which he did not. But now he knew that she was giving more as a woman than he, as
a man, had ever thought of taking from her; and he also, with a somewhat heavy heart, perceived
that a change in their relations to one another was drawing near.

Lettice was sitting in her little study one morning, turning over in her mind the question
which so deeply agitated her, and trying to think that she was prepared for the only solution
which appeared to be possible or acceptable. Alan and she were to go their separate ways: that
was, she told herself, the one thing fixed and unalterable. They might meet again as friends,
and give each other help and sympathy; but it was their irrevocable doom that they should live
apart and alone. That which her heart had sanctioned hitherto, it would sanction no longer;
the cause and the justification were gone, and so were the courage and the confidence.

Lettice had appropriated to her own use as a study a little room on the ground floor, opening
upon the garden. In warm weather it was a particularly charming place, for the long windows
then always stood open, and pleasant scents and sounds from the flower-beds and leafy trees
stole in to cheer her solitude. In winter, it was a little more difficult to keep the rooms
warm and cosy; but Lettice was one of the women who have the knack of making any place where
they abide look home-like and inviting, and in this case her skill had not been spent in vain,
even upon a room for the furniture of which she was not altogether responsible. Heavy tapestry
curtains excluded the draught; a soft rug lay before the old-fashioned high brass fender, and
a bright fire burned in the grate. Lettice's writing-table and library chair half filled the
room; but there was also a small table heaped high with books and papers, a large padded leather
easy-chair, and a bookcase. The walls were distempered in a soft reddish hue, and such part
of the floor as was not covered with a bordered tapestry carpet of divers tints had been stained
dark brown. One of Lettice's favorite possessions, a large autotype of the Sistine Madonna,
hung on the wall fronting her writing-table, so that she could see it in the pauses of her work.

It was at the door of this room that Alan knocked one stormy December day. The month which
Lettice had fixed as the period of silence about business affairs had passed by; but Alan was
so very far from strong when November ended that she had managed, by persuasion and insistence,
to defer any new and definite arrangement for at least another fortnight. But he had gained
much physical and mental strength during those two weeks, and he had felt more and more convinced
from day to day that between himself and Lettice there must now be a complete understanding.
He knew that she had taken the house until the end of December; after that date she would be
homeless, like himself. What were they both to do? It was the question which he had come to put.

Lettice received him with a touch of surprise, almost of embarrassment in her manner. She had
never made him free of her study, for she felt it better that each should have a separate domain
for separate work and a separate life. She had no wish to break down more barriers than circumstances
demanded; and the fact that she had utterly outraged the laws of conventionality in the eyes
of the world did not absolve her from the delicate reticence which she had always maintained
in her personal relations with Alan. He saw the doubt in her face, and hastened to apologize
for his intrusion. "But I could not work this morning," he said, "and I wanted to speak to
you. Milly told me you were here, and----"

"Oh, I am very glad to see you. Come and sit down."

"You are not too busy for a little talk?"

"Not at all."

She wheeled the leather-covered chair a little nearer to the fire, and made him sit down on
it. He cast his eye round the cheery room, noting the books and papers that she was using,
the evidences of steady work and thought. The firelight leaped and glanced on the ruddy walls,
and the coals crackled in the grate; a dash of rain against the window, a blast of wind in
the distance, emphasized the contrast between the warmth and light and restfulness within the
house, the coldness and the storm without.

Alan held his hands to the blaze, and listened for a moment to the wind before he spoke.

"One does not feel inclined," he said, "to turn out on such a day as this."

"Happily, you have no need to turn out," Lettice answered, taking his words in their most literal
sense.

"Not to day, perhaps; but very soon. Lettice, the time has come when we must decide on our
next step. I cannot stay here any longer--on our present terms, at least. But I have not come
to say good-bye. Is there any reason why I should say good-bye--save for a time?"

He had risen from his chair as he spoke, and was standing before her. Lettice shaded her eyes
with her hands. Ah, if she could only give way to the temptation which she felt vaguely aware
that he was going to raise! If she could only be weak in spite of her resolution to be strong,
if she could only take to herself at once the one consolation and partnership which would satisfy
her soul, how instantly would her depression pass away! How easily with one word could she
change the whole current and complexion of life for the man who was bending over her! He was
still only half-redeemed from ruin; he might fall a prey to despair again, if she shrank in
the supreme moment from the sacrifice demanded of her.

Alan did not know how her heart was pleading for him. Something, indeed, he divined, as he
saw her trembling and shaken by the strife within. His heart bounded with sudden impulse from
every quickened vein, and his lips drew closer to her hidden face.

"Lettice!"

There was infinite force and tenderness in the whispered word, and it pierced her to the quick.
She dropped her hands, and looked up.

But one responsive word or glance, and he would have taken her in his arms. He understood her
face, her eyes, too well to do it. She gave him no consent; if he kissed her, if he pressed
her to his breast, he felt that he should dominate her body only, not her soul. And he was
not of that coarse fibre which could be satisfied so. If Lettice did not give herself to him
willingly, she must not give herself at all.

"Lettice!" he said again, and there was less passion but more entreaty in his tone than before
he met that warning glance, "will you not let me speak?"

"Is there anything for us to say," she asked, very gently, "except good-bye?"

"Would you turn me away into the cold from the warmth and brightness of your home, Lettice?
Don't be angry with me for saying so. I have had very little joy or comfort in my life of late,
and it is to you that I owe all that I know of consolation. You have rescued me from a very
hell of despair and darkness, and brought me into paradise. Now do you bid me go? Lettice,
it would be cruel. Tell me to stay with you ... and to the last hour of my life I will stay."

He was standing beside her, with one hand on the wooden arm of her circular chair. She put
her hand over his fingers almost caressingly, and looked up at him again, with tears in her
sweet eyes.

"Have I not done what I wanted to do?" she said. "I found you weak, friendless, ill; you have
got back your strength, and you know that you have at least one friend who will be faithful
to you. My task is done; you must go away now and fight the world--for my sake."

"For your sake? You care what I do, then: Lettice, you care for me? Tell me that you love me--tell
me, at last!"

She was silent for a moment, and he felt that the hand which rested on his own fluttered as
if it would take itself away. Was she offended? Would she withdraw the mute caress of that
soft pressure? Breathlessly he waited. If she took her hand away, he thought that he should
almost cease to hope.

But the hand settled once more into its place. It even tightened its pressure upon his fingers
as she replied--

"I love you with all my heart," she said; "and it is just because I love you that I want you
to go away."

With a quick turn of his wrist he seized the hand that had hitherto lain on his, and carried
it to his lips. They looked into each other's eyes with the long silent look which is more
expressive even than a kiss. Soul draws very near to soul when the eyes of man and woman meet
as theirs met then. The lips did not meet, but Alan's face was very close to hers. When the
pause had lasted so long that Lettice's eyelids drooped, and the spell of the look was broken,
he spoke again.

"Why should I go away? Why should the phantom of a dead past divide us? We belong to one another,
you and I. Think of what life might mean to us, side by side, hand in hand, working, striving
together, you the stronger, giving me some of your strength, I ready to give you the love you
need--the love you have craved for--the love that you have won! Lettice, Lettice, neither God
nor man can divide us now!"

"Hush! you are talking wildly," she answered, in a very gentle tone. "Listen to me, Alan. There
is one point in which you are wrong. You speak of a dead past. But the past is not dead, it
lives for you still in the person of--your wife."

"And you think that she should stand in our way? After all that she has done? Can any law,
human or divine, bind me to her now? Surely her own acts have set me free. Lettice, my darling,
do not be blinded by conventional views of right and wrong. I know that if we had loved each
other and she had been a woman of blameless life, I should not be justified in asking you to
sacrifice for me all that the world holds dear; but think of the life she has led--the shame
she has brought upon me and upon herself. Good God! is anyone in the world narrow-minded enough
and base enough to think that I can still be bound to her?"

"No, Alan; but your course is clear. You must set yourself free."

"Seek my remedy in the courts? Have all the miserable story bandied about from lip to lip,
be branded as a wretched dupe of a wicked woman on whom he had already tried to revenge himself?
That is what the world would say. And your name would be brought forward, my dearest; it would
be hopeless to keep it in the background now. Your very goodness and sweetness would be made
the basis of an accusation.... I could not bear it, I could not see you pilloried, even if
I could bear the shame of it myself."

He sank on his knees beside her, and let his head sink almost to her shoulder. She felt that
he trembled, she saw that his lips were pale, and that the dew stood on his forehead. His physical
strength had not yet returned in full measure, and the contest with Lettice was trying it to
the utmost.

Lettice had turned pale too, but she spoke even more firmly than before.

"Alan," she said, "is this brave?"

"Brave? no!" he answered her. "I might be brave for myself, but how can I be brave for you?
You will suffer more than you have any conception of, when you are held up to the scorn--the
loathing--of the world. For you know she will not keep to the truth--she will spit her venom
upon you--she will blacken your character in ways that you do not dream----"

"I think I have fathomed the depths," said Lettice, with a faint, wan smile. "I saw her myself
when you were in prison, and she has written to my brother Sydney. Oh, yes," as he lifted his
face and looked at her, "she stormed, she threatened, she has accused ... what does it matter
to me what she says, or what the world says, either? Alan, it is too late to care so much for
name and fame. I crossed the line which marks the boundary between convention and true liberty
many weeks ago. The best thing for me now, as well as for you, is to face our accusers gallantly,
and have the matter exposed to the light of day."

"I have brought this upon you!" he groaned.

"No, I have brought it on myself. Dear Alan, it is the hardest thing in the world to be brave
for those we love--we are much too apt to fear danger or pain for them. Just because it is
so hard, I ask you to do this thing. Give me courage--don't sap my confidence with doubts and
fears. Let us be brave together, and for one another, and then we shall win the battle and
be at peace."

"It will be so hard for you."

"Not harder than it has been for you these many years. My poor dear my heart has bled so many
times to think how you have suffered! I am proud to have a share in your suffering now. I am
not ashamed to tell you that I love you, for it is my love that is to make you strong and brave,
so that we may conquer the world together, despise its scorn, and meet its sneers with smiles!
We will not run away from it, like cowards! I come of a fighting race on my mother's side,
the very suggestion of flight makes my blood boil, Alan! No, we will die fighting, if need
be, but we will not run away."

"Yes, yes, my brave darling, you are right. We will stand or fall together. It was not for
myself that I hesitated."

"I know--I know. So you see, dear, that we must part."

"For a time only."

"You will see Mr. Larmer to-morrow?"

"I will."

They were silent for a while. Her arm was round his neck, and his head was resting against
her wearily. It was Lettice who first roused herself.

"This must not be," she said, drawing back her arm.

"Alan, let us be friends still--and nothing else. Let us have nothing to reproach ourselves
with by and by."

He sighed as he lifted his head from its resting place.

"I will go to Larmer to-day," he said. "There is nothing to be gained by waiting. But--have
you thought of all that that woman may do to us? Lettice, I tremble almost for your life."

"I do not think she would attempt that."

"She threatened you?"

"With vitriol. She said that she would blind me so that I could not see you--scar me so that
you would not care to look upon my face. Ought I to have told you? Alan, do not look so pale!
It was a mere foolish threat."

"I am not so sure of that. She is capable of it--or of any other fiendish act. If she injured
you, Lettice----"

"Don't think of that. You say you will go to Mr. Larmer this afternoon."

"Yes. And then I will look out for lodgings. And you--what will you do? Stay here?"

She shook her head. "I shall go into lodgings too. I have plenty of work, and you--you will
come to see me sometimes."

"As often as you will let me. Oh, Lettice, it is a hard piece of work that you have given me
to do!"

She took his hand in hers and pressed it softly. "I shall be grateful to you for doing it,"
she said. There was a long silence. Alan stood by the fire-place, his head resting upon his
hand. Finally he spoke in a low uncertain tone--

"There is one point I must mention. I think there may be a difficulty in getting the divorce.
I believe she claims that I condoned her--her faults. I may find insuperable obstacles in my way."

Lettice drew a quick breath, and rose suddenly to her feet.

"We have nothing to do with that just now, Alan. You must try."

And then they said no more.

But when the afternoon came and Alan was ready to depart--for when once he had made up his
mind that he must go, he thought it better not to linger--he drew Lettice inside her little
study again, and looked her full in the face.

"Lettice, before I go, will you kiss me once?"

She did not hesitate. She lifted her face, calmly and seriously, and kissed him on the mouth.

But she was not prepared for the grip in which he seized her, and the passionate pressure of
her lips which he returned. "Lettice, my dearest, my own love," he said, holding her close
to him as he spoke, "suppose I fail! If the law will not set me free, what will you do?"

She was silent for a minute or two, and he saw that her face grew pale.

"Oh," she said at last, in a sighing voice, broken at last by a despairing sob, "if man's law
is so hard, Alan, surely then we may trust ourselves to God's!"

"Promise me," he said, "that you will never give me up--that, whatever happens, you will one
day be mine!"

"Whatever happens," she answered, "I am yours, Alan, in life or death--in time and for eternity."

And with this assurance he was fain to be content.

CHAPTER XXXVIII.

SYDNEY PAYS HIS DEBTS.

The fight which Sydney Campion had had to wage with his creditors was bitter enough up to the
time of his marriage. Then there had been a lull for a few months, during which it was confidently
said and believed that he was about to touch a large sum of money, and that all who had put
their trust in him would be rewarded.

Month after month went by, and there was no realization of the prospect. Sydney touched no
money but what he earned. He might, no doubt, have touched some of his wife's money, even for
the payment of his old debts, if he had told her the distress that he was in. But it had never
occurred to him to be thus sincere with Nan. He had thought to figure before her as one who
was not dependent on her fortune, who could very comfortably play with his hundreds, though
not able, like herself, to be generous with thousands. He would, in fact, have been ashamed
to own his rotten financial condition, either to Nan or to any of his social or political friends;
and he fancied that he was concealing this condition in a very ingenious manner when he made
a liberal outlay in connection with their quiet marriage, the honeymoon abroad, and the subsequent
arrangements of their household in London.

This was all the more unfortunate because Nan, just of age, with her fortune in her own hands,
would have given him anything without demur or question, if she had for a moment suspected
that he needed it. His concealment was so effectual that it never entered her unsophisticated
mind that this barrister in good practice, this rising politician, who seemed to have his feet
on the ladder of success, could be crushed and burdened with debt. Sydney, however, was by
no means blind. He knew well enough that he could have had the few thousands necessary to clear
him if he had asked his wife for a cheque; but he did not trust her love sufficiently to believe
that she would think as well of him from that day forward as she had done before, and he was
not large-minded enough to conceive himself as ever shaking off the sense of obligation which
her gift in such a form would impose upon him.

He had therefore drifted, in the matter of his debts, from expedient to expedient, in the hope
that by good fortune and good management he might avoid the rocks that beset his course, and
reach smooth water by his own exertion. But, as ill luck would have it, he had given a bill
for six hundred pounds, due on the 23rd of November, to a certain Mr. Copley, a man who had
been especially disgusted by Sydney's failure to obtain ready money at the time of his marriage,
and who for this and other reasons had worked himself up into a malicious frame of mind. But
on the 23rd of November, Sydney and his wife had run over to Paris for a few days with Sir
John and Lady Pynsent, and then Nan had been so seriously indisposed that Sydney could not
leave her without seeming unkindness; so that they did not reach London again until the 26th.
This delay opened a chapter of incidents which ended as Sydney had not foreseen.

He had not forgotten the date of the bill, and knew that it was important to provide for it;
but he did not anticipate that the last day of grace would have expired before he could communicate
with the man who held his signature.

Early on the morning of the 27th, he set out for Mr. Copley's office; and it so happened that
at the same moment Mr. Copley set out also for Sydney's private house.

"Master in?" said Mr. Copley, who was a man of few words.

"No, sir."

"Lady in?"

"My mistress does not receive any one so early."

"Take that up--answer important--bearer waiting."

The footman condescended so far as this, and gave Mr. Copley's letter into the charge of Mrs.
Campion's maid.

In less than ten minutes Nan sent for the unwelcome visitor. She was very pale when she received
him, and she looked so young and fair that Mr. Copley was a little taken aback. He knew that
Sydney had married an heiress, and it was from her, therefore, that he had determined, if possible,
to get the money; but he half repented his resolve when he saw Mrs. Campion's face. "Too young
to know anything about business," he said to himself.

But Nan was more business-like than he expected. She had for some time insisted on knowing
a good deal about her own money matters, and she was well aware of her powers.

"Where is this paper--this acceptance you mention in your letter?" she began.

Mr. Copley silently took it from his notebook, and laid it on the table.

"Why did you bring this here? or, rather, why did you send it in to me? Mr. Campion is not
difficult to find when he is wanted. This is, of course, his business." There was a little
indignation in her tone.

"Beg your pardon, madam. You will observe the date of the acceptance. I presented it yesterday."

"At the bank?"

"Yes."

Nan bit her lip. She knew what this signified, and she would have given a thousand pounds to
undo what had happened.

She went to a drawer in her writing-table and quietly took out a cheque-book. "We were delayed
in returning to England by my illness," she said, as indifferently as she could. "Mr. Campion
has gone out for the purpose of seeing to this." Her heart smote her for making a statement
which she could not vouch for, but as Mr. Copley only bowed and looked uninterested, she went
on rapidly, "As you have the paper with you it will save time--it will be satisfactory, I suppose--if
I give you a cheque for it?"

"Amply satisfactory."

She sat down before the table and took the pen in her hand, hesitating a moment as to whether
she ought to ask for further details. Her tears and her curiosity were alike aroused, and Mr.
Copley divined the question, which she hardly knew how to put into words. He produced a sheet
of notepaper, containing a few memoranda, and passed it across the table.

"That was to refresh my memory if necessary; but happily it isn't. Mr. Campion may like to
see it however. He will find it is all correct. I knew I was right in asking to see you, ma'am."

Nan did not look at the memoranda. She was satisfied that she had the details before her for
her own or Sydney's consideration if necessary. She signed her cheque and took possession of
the dishonored bill; and then Mr. Copley departed.

When he was gone, she caught up the sheet of paper and hastily glanced at it.

"1880--studs, pin, money advanced £50. 1881--ring, money advanced £100; bracelet, necklace,
pendant, money advanced £150----" and so on. Further down the page, Nan's eye was caught by
the words: "Diamond and sapphire ring."

"Ah!" she said, catching her breath as if she were in pain, and laying the paper down on the
table, "that was mine!"

The ring was on her finger as she spoke. It had been her engagement ring. She looked at it
for a minute or two, then slowly, took it off and put it into the drawer.

Next, with an absent look upon her face, she took up a small taper, and lighted it; and, holding
Mr. Copley's paper by one corner, she raised it to the flame and converted it into ashes. One
line escaped. A fragment of the paper was scorched but not consumed, and as she took it up
to make her work more thorough, the words and a date caught her attention once again.

"Bracelet, necklace, pendant, bought after we knew each other," she murmured with a curious
smile. "Those were not for me. I wonder----"

But she did not go on. It was the first time that a shadow from Sydney's past had crossed her
life; and she dared not investigate it too closely. She put the bill and her cheque-book out
of sight, and sat down to think over the present position of affairs.

Sydney came home just before lunch-time, and, hearing that she was in her own little sitting-room
(she would not have it called a boudoir), went up to her. He looked vexed and anxious, as Nan
was quick to notice, but he came up to her side and kissed her affectionately.

"Better, Nan?" She had not been very well when he left her: indeed, the delicacy of her health
had lately been more marked, and had several times given him cause for uneasiness.

"Yes, thank you. But you don't look well, Sydney."

She hoped that he would tell her what was wrong. To her disappointment, he smiled, and answered
lightly.

"I'm all right, Nan. I have a good deal to do just now, and am rather tired--that is all."

"Tired--and anxious?" she said, looking at him with more keenness than he had thought her soft
eyes capable of expressing.

"Anxious! no, I have not much to be anxious about, have I?"

He spoke with a laugh; but, to her fancy, there was something half-alarmed and half-defiant
in the pose of his lifted head, the glance of his handsome bright eyes. Her heart sank a little:
it seemed to her that it would have been nobler in her husband to tell her the whole truth,
and it had never occurred to her before to think of him as ignoble in any way.

"I suppose you do not want to tell me for fear of troubling me," she said, with a tremor in
her voice; "but I think I know what you are anxious about, Sydney."

He gave a little start as he turned towards her.

"Some man has been here whilst you were out, and he sent up this letter with a request that
it should be opened. Look!" she said, giving him the bill, "you can tear it up now. I was sure
you had gone out to see about it, but I thought it better that I should settle it at once.
I hope"--with a little girlish nervousness--"you don't mind?"

He had sat down on a chair when she showed him Mr. Copley's letter, with the look of a man
determined to bear a blow, but he sprang up again at the sight of his dishonored acceptance.

"And you have paid it, Nan?" he cried.

"Yes, I paid it. Oh, Sydney, it was a little thing to do! If only you had told me months ago!"

Her eyes brimmed over with tears at last. She had been smarting under a sense of terrible humiliation
ever since Mr. Copley's visit, but hitherto she had not wept. Now, when her husband took her
in his arms and looked into her eyes, the pain at her heart was somewhat assuaged, although
the tears fell swiftly down her pale cheeks.

"Nan, I never dreamed that I should find your kindness so bitter to me," Sydney said.

He was profoundly moved by her gentleness and by her generosity alike. But inasmuch as it requires
more generosity of nature to accept a gift nobly than to make it, he felt himself shamed in
her eyes, and his wife was in her turn pained by the consciousness of his shame.

"Why should you be afraid to trust me?" she said. "All that concerns you concerns me as well;
and I am only setting myself free from trouble and anxiety if I do anything for you. Don't
you understand? And as far as my money is concerned, you know very well that if it had not
been for John and those tiresome lawyers, you should have had it all and spent it, if you chose,
without the slightest reference to me. What grieves me, dearest, is that you should have been
suffering without taking me into your confidence."

"I ought to have done so," said Sydney, rather reluctantly, "but I felt as if I could not tell
you all these paltry, sordid details. You might have thought----"

Then he paused, and the color rose darkly in his face.

"I should have thought nothing but what was honorable to you," said Nan, throwing back her
graceful head with a gesture of natural pride and indignation.

"And now you think the worse of me?"

"No, no!" she cried, stealing one arm round his neck, "I think nothing bad of you--nothing!
Only you will trust me, now, Sydney? You will not hide things from me again?"

"No, my darling, nothing that you ought to know," he said. There was a touch of new but restrained
emotion in his voice. It struck him for almost the first time how much of his life he had hidden
from her frank and innocent eyes.

Presently, when he had kissed her tears away, she begged him to tell her what he still actually
owed, and, after some little demur, he consented. The amount of the debt, which lay heavily
on his conscience, was comparatively a trivial thing to her. But when he had told her all,
she looked at him with eyes which, although very loving, were full of wonder and dismay.

"Poor Sydney!" she said caressingly. "My poor boy! As if you could give your mind properly
to anything with this heavy burden on it! To-morrow we can get the money, and pay off all these
people. Then you will be able to work without any disturbance."

"Thanks to you, Nan," said her husband, with bowed head. She could not understand why he did
not look more relieved. She never suspected that his mind was burdened with another debt, that
money could not pay.

She had not asked him for any explanation of the items in the paper that she had read. The
momentary wonder that had flitted across her mind passed as quickly as it came. The gifts that
were not for her had been intended perhaps for his sister Lettice, perhaps for the wedding
present of a friend. She did not like to ask. But a slightly uncomfortable sensation remained
in her mind, and she never again wore the ring for which, as it now turned out, she herself
had had to pay.

Sydney's position was certainly a painful one just then. But he was at any rate relieved of
the burden of his debts, and he hoped, with some compunction of heart, that no other secret
of his life would ever come to his wife's ears. It was about this time that he received the
letter from Cora Walcott and had the interview with Lettice, of which mention has been made;
and Nan fancied that it was anxiety about his sister that caused him to show signs of moodiness
and depression. He had told her nothing more of Lettice's doings than he was obliged to tell,
but other friends were not so reticent, and Lady Pynsent had enlightened Nan's mind very speedily
with respect to the upshot of "the Walcott affair." Nan made some reference to it shortly afterwards
in conversation with her husband, and was struck by the look of pain which crossed his face
as he replied,

"Don't talk about it, Nan, my dear."

"He must be much fonder of his sister than I thought," Nan said to herself. She made one more
effort to speak.

"Could I do nothing, Sydney? Suppose I went to her, and told her how grieved you were----"

"You, Nan! For heaven's sake, don't let me hear of your crossing the threshold of that house!"
cried Sydney, with vehemence, which Nan very naturally misunderstood.

It was, on the whole, a relief to her to find that he did not want her to take any active steps
in any direction. She was not very strong, and was glad to be left a good deal at peace. Sydney
was out for a great part of the day, and Nan took life easily. Lady Pynsent came to sit with
her sometimes, or drove in the Park with her, and other friends sought her out: she had tender
hopes for the future which filled her mind with sweet content, and she would have been happy
but for that slight jar between Sydney and herself. That consciousness of a want of trust which
never ceased to give her pain. Sydney himself was the most attentive of husbands when he was
at home: he brought her flowers and fruit, he read aloud to her, he hung over her as she lay
on the sofa, and surrounded her with a hundred little marks of his affection--such as she would
have thought delicious while her confidence in him was still unshaken. She still found pleasure
in them; but her eyes were keener than they had been, and she knew that beneath all the manifestations
of his real and strong attachment to her there ran a vein of apology and misgiving--a state
of things inexpressibly unsatisfactory to a woman who knows how to love and how to trust.

Sydney, only half-conscious that something was wrong, had no idea how to mend matters, and
was, therefore, in a fair way to make them worse. Frankness would have appeared brutal to him,
and he did not see how subtly poisonous was the effect of his habits of concealment upon his
wife's mind. Gifted with the instinct of discernment, which in sensitive women is almost like
a sort of second-sight, she knew, without knowing how she knew, that he had trouble which he
did not confide to her, secrets which his tongue would never tell. He could deceive her as
to their existence so long as the period of illusion lasted; but as soon as her eyes were opened
her sight became very keen indeed. And he, believing himself always successful in throwing
dust in her eyes, fancied that her wistful look, her occasional unresponsiveness to his caresses,
proceeded from physical causes only, and would with them also pass away.

Thus December left them, and the dark foggy days of January flew apace. It was close upon February
before Nan recovered from a severe cold which had assailed her about Christmas time, and left
her very weak. For a week or two she was confined entirely to her room, and when she came downstairs
she was forced for a time to keep to the warm atmosphere of one sitting-room. But one day,
when February was close at hand, and the fogs had begun to clear away, she felt so much stronger
that she resolved to make a new departure and show Sydney that she was really better. Instead
of going into the drawing-room, therefore, she came down another flight of stairs, and resolved
to establish herself in Sydney's study, ready to greet him on his return.

But Sydney was late, and she was rather weaker than she knew. She had her tea, and ordered
lights to be brought in, and the curtains drawn, but still he did not come. Then she found
that the lights hurt her eyes, and she had them extinguished--all but one small silver lamp
which stood on a centre-table, and gave a very subdued light. Her maid came and put a soft
fur rug over her, and at her orders moved a screen of carved woodwork, brought from an Arab
building in Algeria, between her and the fire before she left the room. Thus comfortably installed,
the warmth and the dimness of the light speedily made Nan sleepy. She forgot to listen for
the sound of her husband's latchkey; she fell fast asleep, and must have remained so for the
greater part of an hour.

The fire went down, and its flickering flame no longer illuminated the room. The soft light
of the lamp did not extend very far, and the screen, which was tall and dark, threw the sofa
on which Nan lay into deep shadow. The rug completely covered the lower part of her dress,
and as the sofa stood between the wall and the fire-place on that side of the room furthest
removed from the door, any one entering might easily believe that the room was empty. Indeed,
unless Nan stirred in her sleep, there was nothing at all to show that she was lying on the couch.

Thus, when Sydney entered his study about a quarter to seven, with a companion whom he had
found waiting for him on the door-step, it would have been impossible for him to conjecture
the presence of his wife. He did not light another lamp. The first words of his visitor had
startled him into forgetting that the room was dark--perhaps, as the interview went on, he
was glad of the obscurity into which his face was thrown. And the sounds of the low-toned conversation
did not startle Nan from her slumber all at once. She had heard several sentences before she
realized where she was and what she was listening to, and then very natural feelings kept her
silent and motionless.

"No, I've not come for money," were the first words she heard. "Quite a different errand, Mr.
Campion. It is some weeks since I left you now, and I left you because I had a competency bequeathed
to me by an uncle."

"Pleased to hear it, I am sure, Johnson," was Sydney's response. "As you mentioned the name
of another person, I thought that you had perhaps had a letter from her----"

"I have seen her, certainly, several times of late. And I am the bearer of a message from her.
She has always regretted that she took a certain sum of money from you when she first found
out how you had deceived her; and she wishes you to understand that she wants nothing more
from you. The fact is, sir, I have long been very sorry for her misfortunes, and now that I
am independent, I have asked her to marry me and go with me to America."

There was a little silence. "I am quite willing to provide for the child," said Sydney, "and----"

"No," said the man, almost sternly; "hear me out first, Mr. Campion. She owes her misery to
you, and, no doubt, you have always thought that money could make atonement. But that's not
my view, nor hers. We would rather not give you the satisfaction of making what you call restitution.
Milly's child--your child, too--will be mine now; I shall adopt it for my own when I marry
her. You will have nothing to do with either of them. And I have brought you back the twenty
pounds which you gave her when you cruelly deserted her because you wanted to marry a rich
woman. In that parcel you will find a locket and one or two other things that you gave her.
I have told her, and Miss Campion, who has been the best of friends to us both, has told her
that she must henceforth put the memory of you behind her, and live for those whom she loves best."

"Certainly; it is better that she should," said Sydney.

"That is all I have to say," Johnson remarked, "except that I shall do my best to help her
to forget the past. But if ever you can forget your own cruelty and black treachery and villainy
towards her----"

"That will do. I will not listen to insult from you or any man."

"You should rather be grateful to me for not exposing you to the world," said Johnson, drily,
as he moved towards the door. "If it knew all that I know, what would your career be worth,
Mr. Campion? As it is, no one knows the truth but ourselves and your sister, and all I want
to remind you of is, that if we forget it, and if you forget it, I believe there is a God somewhere
or other who never forgets."

"I am much obliged to you for the reminder," said Sydney, scornfully. But he could not get
back the usual clearness of his voice.

Johnson went out without another word, and a minute later the front door was heard to close
after him. Sydney stood perfectly still until that sound was heard. Then he moved slowly towards
the table, where an envelope and a sealed packet were lying side by side. He looked at them
for a minute or two, and flung himself into an arm-chair beside the table with an involuntary
groan of pain. He was drawing the packet towards him, when a movement behind the screen caused
him to spring desperately to his feet.

It was Nan, who had risen from the sofa and stood before him, her face white as the gown she
wore, her eyes wide with a new despair, her fingers clutching at the collar of her dress as
if the swelling throat craved the relief of freedom from all bands. Sydney's heart contracted
with a sharp throb of pain, anger, fear--he scarcely knew which was uppermost. It flashed across
his mind that he had lost everything in life which he cared for most--that Nan would despise
him, that she would denounce him as a sorry traitor to his friends, that the story--a sufficiently
black one, as he knew--would be published to the world. Disgrace and failure had always been
the things that he had chiefly feared, and they lay straight before him now.

"I heard," Nan said, with white lips and choking utterance. "I was asleep when you came, but
I think I heard it all. Is it true? There was some one--some one--that you left--for me?--some
one who ought to have been your wife?"

"I swear I never loved anyone but you," he broke out, roughly and abruptly, able neither to
repel nor to plead guilty to the charge she made, but miserably conscious that his one false
step might cost him all that he held most dear. To Nan, the very vagueness and--as she deemed
it--the irrelevance of his answer constituted an acknowledgment of guilt.

"Sydney," she murmured, catching at the table for support, and speaking so brokenly that he
had difficulty in distinguishing the words, "Sydney--I cannot pay this debt!"

And then she fell at his feet in a swoon, which at first he mistook for death.

CHAPTER XXXIX.

"SO SHALL YE ALSO REAP."

For some time Nan's life hung in the balance. It seemed as though a straw either way would
suffice to turn the scales. Dead silence reigned in the house in Thurloe Square: the street
outside was ankle-deep in straw: doctors and nurses took possession of Nan's pretty rooms,
where all her graceful devices and gentle handicrafts were set aside, and their places filled
with a grim array of medicaments. The servants, who loved their mistress, went about with melancholy
faces and muffled voices; and the master of the house, hitherto so confident and self-reliant,
presented to the world a stony front of silent desolation, for which nobody would have given
Sydney Campion credit.

"Over-exertion or mental shock must have brought it on," said the doctor, when questioned by
Lady Pynsent as to the cause of Mrs. Campion's illness.

"She can't have had a mental shock," said Lady Pynsent, decidedly. "She must have over-excited
herself. Do you know how she did it, Sydney?"

"She fainted at my feet almost as soon as I saw her," said Sydney. "I don't know what she had
been doing all the afternoon."

Nobody else seemed to know, either. The maid bore witness that her mistress had insisted on
going downstairs, and it was generally supposed that this expedition had been too much for
her strength. Only Sydney knew better, and he would not confide his knowledge to Lady Pynsent,
although he spoke with more freedom to the doctor.

"Yes, she had bad news which distressed her. She fainted upon hearing it."

"That did the mischief. She was not in a condition to bear excitement," said the doctor, rather
sharply; but he was sorry for his words, when he noted the distressed look on Sydney's face.
He was the more sorry for him when it was discovered that he could not be admitted to the sick-room,
for his appearance sent Nan's pulse up to fever-height at once, although she did not openly
confess her agitation. The only thing that Sydney could do was to retire, baffled and disconsolate,
to his study, where he passed the night in a state of indescribable anxiety and excitement.

When the fever abated, Nan fell into such prostration of strength that it was difficult to
believe she would ever rise from her bed again. Weaker than a baby, she could move neither
hand nor foot: she had to be fed like an infant, at intervals of a few minutes, lest the flame
of life, which had sunk so low, should suddenly go out altogether. It was at this point of
her illness that she fainted when Sydney once persuaded the doctor to let him enter her room,
and the nurses had great difficulty in bringing her back to consciousness. After which, there
was no more talk of visits from her husband, and Sydney had to resign himself to obtaining
news of her from the doctor and the nurses, who, he fancied, looked at him askance, as blaming
him in their hearts for his wife's illness.

"I can't make Nan out," said Lady Pynsent to him one day. "She is so depressed--she cries if
one looks at her almost--and yet the very thing that I expected her to be unhappy about does
not affect her in the least."

"What do you mean?" said Sydney.

"Why, her disappointment about her baby, of course. I said something about it, and she just
whispered, 'I'm very glad.' I suppose it is simply that she feels so weak, otherwise I should
have thought it unnatural in Nan, who was always so fond of children."

Sydney made no answer. He was beginning to find this state of things intolerable. After all,
he asked himself, what had he done that his wife should be almost killed by the shock of finding
out that he had behaved--as other men behaved? But that sort of reasoning would not do. His
behavior to Milly had been, as he knew, singularly heartless; and he had happened to marry
a girl whose greatest charm to him had been her tenderness of heart, her innocent candor, and
that purity of mind which comes of hatred--not ignorance--of sin. A worldlier woman would not
have been so shocked; but he had never desired less crystalline transparency of mind--less
exquisite whiteness of soul, for Nan. No; that was the worst of it: the very qualities that
he admired and respected in her bore witness against him now.

He remembered the last hours of his father's life--how they had been embittered by his selfish
anger, for which he had never been able to make amends. Was his wife also to die without giving
him a word of forgiveness, or hearing him ask her pardon? If she died, he knew that he would
have slain her as surely as if he had struck her to the ground with his strong right hand.
For almost the first time in his life Sydney found himself utterly unnerved by his anxiety.
His love for Nan was the truest and strongest emotion that he had ever felt. And that his love
for her should be sullied in her eyes by comparison with the transient influence which Milly
had exercised over him was an intolerable outrage on his best and holiest affections and on
hers. "What must she think of me?" he said to himself; and he was fain to confess that she
could not think much worse of him than he deserved. It was a bitter harvest that he was reaping
from seed that he himself had sown.

He was almost incapable of work during those terrible days when he did not know whether Nan
would live or die. He got through as much as was absolutely imperative; but he dreaded being
away from the house, lest that "change," of which the nurses spoke, should come during his
absence; and he managed to stay at home for many hours of the day.

But at last the corner was turned: a little return of strength was reported, and by and by
the doctor assured him that, although his patient still required very great care, the immediate
danger was past, and there was at least a fair hope of her ultimate recovery. But he might
not see her--yet.

So much was gained; but Sydney's spirits did not rise at once. He was conscious of some relief
from the agony of suspense, but black care and anxiety sat behind him still. He was freer to
come and go, however, than he had been for some time, and the first use he made of his liberty
was to go to the very person whom he had once vowed never to see again--his sister Lettice.

She had written to him since his interview with her at Bute Lodge. She had told him of Alan's
departure, and--to some extent--of its cause: she had given him the address of the lodgings
to which she was now going (for a continued residence at Bute Lodge was beyond her means),
and she sent him her sisterly love--and that was all. She had not condescended to any justification
of her own conduct, nor had she alluded to the accusations that he had made, nor to his own
discomfiture. But there had been enough quiet warmth in the letter to make him conscious that
he might count on her forgiveness and affection if he desired it. And he did desire it. In
the long hours of those sleepless nights and weary days in which he had waited for better news
of Nan, it was astonishing to find how clearly the years of his boyhood had come back to him--those
quiet, peaceful years in which he had known nothing of the darker sides of life, when the serene
atmosphere of the rectory and the village had been dear to his heart, and Lettice had been
his cherished companion and trusty comrade in work or play. It was like going back into another
world--a purer and a truer world than the one in which he lived now.

And in these hours of retrospect, he came to clearer and truer conclusions respecting Lettice's
character and course of action than he had been able to do before he was himself smitten by
the hand of Fate. Lettice was interpreted to him by Nan. There were women in the world, it
seemed, who had consciences, and pure hearts, and generous emotions: it was not for him to
deny it now. And he had been very hard on Lettice in days gone by. He turned to her now with
a stirring of affection which he had not known for years.

But when he entered Lettice's room, and she came to meet him, gravely, and with a certain inquiry
in her look, he suddenly felt that he had no reason to give for his appearance there.

"Sydney!" she had exclaimed in surprise. Then, after the first long glance, and with a quick
change of tone: "Sydney, are you ill?"

For he was haggard and worn, as she had never seen him, with dark lines under his eyes, and
an air of prostration and fatigue.

"No, I'm very well. It's Nan--my wife," he said, avoiding her alarmed gaze.

"I am sorry--very sorry. Is she----"

"She has been on the brink of death. There is some hope now. I don't know why I came here unless
it was to tell you so," said Sydney, with an odd abruptness which seemed to be assumed in order
to mask some unusually strong feeling. "I suppose you know that the man Johnson came to see me----"

"Yes: they have gone," said Lettice, quickly. "They were married yesterday, and sailed this
morning."

"Ah! Well, she was in the room when he--made his communication to me. I did not know it--Johnson
never knew it at all. She had been asleep--but she woke and heard what he said. She fainted--and
she has been ill ever since." He added a few words concerning the technicalities of his wife's
case.

"Oh, Sydney!--my poor Sydney! I am so sorry," said Lettice, her eyes full of tears. For she
saw, by his changed manner, something of what his trouble had been, and she instantly forgot
all causes of complaint against him. He was sitting sideways on a chair, with his head on his
hand; and when she put her arms round his neck and kissed him, he did not repulse her--indeed,
he kissed her in return, and seemed comforted by her caress.

"I can't even see her," he went on. "She faints if I go into the room. How long do you think
it will last, Lettice? Will she ever get over it, do you think?"

"If she loves you, I think she will, Sydney. But you must give her time. No doubt it was a
great shock to her," said Lettice.

He looked at her assentingly, and then stared out of the window as if absorbed in thought.
The result of his reflections seemed to be summed up in a short sentence which, certainly,
Lettice had never expected to hear from Sydney's lips:--

"I can't think how I came to be such a damned fool. I beg your pardon, Lettice; but it's true."

"Can I be of any use to you--or to her?"

"Thank you, I don't think so--just yet. I don't know--" heavily--"whether she will want you
some day to tell her all you know."

"Oh, no, Sydney!"

"You must do just what you think best about it. I shall put no barriers in the way. Perhaps
she had better know everything now."

Then he roused himself a little and looked at her kindly.

"How are you getting on?" he said. "Writing as usual?"

"Yes, I am busy, and doing very well."

"You look thin and fagged."

"Oh, Sydney, if you could but see yourself!"

He smiled at this, and then rose to go.

"But you will stay and have tea with me? Do, Sydney--if only," and Lettice's voice grew low
and deep, "if only in token that there is peace between us."

So he stayed; and, although they spoke no more of the matters that were dearest to their hearts,
Lettice's bitterness of feeling towards her brother disappeared, and Sydney felt vaguely comforted
in his trouble by her sympathy.

She did not tell him of the strange marriage-scene which she had witnessed the day before--when
Milly, almost hysterical from over-wrought feeling, had vowed to be a true and faithful wife
to the man who had pitied and succored her in the time of her sorest need: of Johnson's stolid
demeanor, covering a totally unexpected fund of good-feeling and romance; or of his extraordinary
desire, which Lettice had seen carried out, that the baby should be present at its mother's
wedding, and should receive--poor little mite--a fatherly kiss from him as soon as he had kissed
the forlorn and trembling bride. For Milly, although she professed to like and respect Michael
Johnson, shrank somewhat from the prospect of life in another country, and was nervous and
excitable to a degree which rather alarmed her mistress. Lettice confessed on reflection, however,
that Johnson knew exactly how to manage poor little Milly; and that he had called smiles to
her face in the very midst of a last flood of tears; and that she had no fear for the girl's
ultimate happiness. Johnson had behaved in a very straightforward, manly and considerate way;
and in new surroundings, in a new country, with a kind husband and good prospects, Milly was
likely to lead a very happy and comfortable life. Lettice was glad to think so; and was more
sorry to see the baby go than to part from Milly. Indeed, she had offered to adopt it; but
Johnson was so indignant, and Milly so tearful, at the idea, that she had been forced to relinquish
her desire. All this, however, she withheld from Sydney; as also her expedition to the station
to see the little party start for Liverpool, and Milly's grief at parting with the forbearing
mistress whom she had once deceived, and who had been, after all, her truest friend.

       *       *       *       *       *

Nan began, very slowly, but surely, to amend; and Sydney, going back to his usual pursuits,
seemed busier than ever.

But, in spite of himself, he was haunted night and day by the fear of what would happen next;
of what Nan meant to do when she grew strong. Would she ever forgive him? And if she did not
forgive him, what would she do? Tell the whole story to Sir John, and insist on returning to
her brother's house? That would be an extreme thing, and Sir John--who was a man of the world--would
probably pooh pooh her virtuous indignation; but Nan had a way of carrying out her resolves
whether Sir John pooh-poohed them or not. And supposing that Nan separated herself from him,
Sydney could not but see that a very serious imputation would be thrown on his character, even
if the true story were not known in all its details. That mock marriage--which he had not at
first supposed that Milly had taken seriously--had a very ugly sound. And he had made too many
enemies for the thing to be allowed to drop if once it came to the light.

His career was simply at the mercy of two women--the Johnsons were not, he thought, likely
to break silence--and if either of them should prove to be indiscreet or vindictive, he was
a ruined man. He had injured and insulted his sister: he had shocked and horrified his wife.
What Nan though of him he could not tell. He had always believed that women were too small-minded
to forget an injury, to forgive an insult, or to keep silence regarding their husbands' transgressions.
If Nan once enlisted Sir John's sympathies on her side, he knew that, although he might ultimately
recover from the blow inflicted by his brother-in-law's offense and anger, his chance of success
in life would be diminished. And for what a cause? He writhed as he thought of the passing,
contemptuous fancy, for the indulgence of which he might have to sacrifice so much and had
already sacrificed part of what was dearest in life to him. Yes, he told himself, he was at
Nan's mercy, and he had not hitherto found women very ready to hold their hands when weapons
had been put into them, and all the instincts of outraged vanity made them strike.

Sydney Campion prided himself on a wide experience of men and women, and a large acquaintance
with human nature. But he did not yet know Nan.

       *       *       *       *       *

The story which had been so suddenly unfolded to her had struck her to the earth with the force
of a blow, for more than one reason, but chiefly because she had trusted Sydney so completely.
She was not so ignorant of the ways of men as to believe that their lives were always free
from stain; indeed she knew more than most girls of the weakness and wickedness of mankind,
partly because she was well acquainted with many Vanebury working-people, who were her tenants,
partly because Lady Pynsent was a woman of the world and did not choose that Nan should go
about with her eyes closed, and partly because she read widely and had never been restricted
in the choice of books. She was not a mere ignorant child, shrinking from knowledge as if it
were contamination, and blindly believing in the goodness and innocence of all men. But this
theoretical acquaintance with the world had not saved her from the error into which women are
apt to fall--the error of setting up her lover on a pedestal and believing that he was not
as other men. She was punished for her mistake, she told herself bitterly, by finding that
he was even worse, not better, than other men, whose weaknesses she had contemned.

For there had been a strain of meanness and cruelty in Sydney's behavior to the girl whom he
had ruined which cut his wife to the heart. She had been taught, and she had tried--with some
misgiving--to believe that she ought to be prepared to condone a certain amount of levity,
of "wildness," even, in her husband's past; but here she saw deliberate treachery, cold-blooded
selfishness, which startled her from her dream of happiness. Nan was a little too logical for
her own peace of mind. She could not look at an action as an isolated fact in a man's life:
it was an outcome of character. What Sydney had done showed Sydney as he was. And, oh, what
a fall was there! how different from the ideal that she had hoped to see realized in him!

It never once occurred to Nan to take either Sir John or Lady Pynsent into her confidence.
Sydney was quite mistaken in thinking that she would fly to them for consolation. She would
have shrunk sensitively from telling them any story to his discredit. Besides, she shrewdly
suspected that they would not share her disappointment, her sense of disillusion; Sir John
had more than once laughed in an oddly amused way when she dropped a word in praise of Sydney's
high-mindedness and generous zeal for others. "Campion knows which side his bread's buttered,"
he had once made her angry by saying. She had not the slightest inclination to talk to them
of Sydney's past life and character.

Besides, she knew well enough that she had no actual cause of complaint in the eyes of the
world. Her husband was not bound to tell her all that happened to him before he met her; and
he had severed all connection with that unhappy young woman before he asked her, Anna Pynsent,
to be his wife. Nan's grievance was one of those intangible grievances which bring the lines
into so many women's faces and the pathos into their eyes--the grievance of having set up an
idol and seen it fall. The Sydney Campion who had deceived and wronged a trusting girl was
not the man that she had known and loved. That was all. It was nothing that could be told to
the outer world, nothing that in itself constituted a reason for her leaving him and making
him a mark for arrows of scandal and curiosity; but it simply killed outright the love that
she had hitherto borne him, so that her heart lay cold and heavy in her bosom as a stone.

So frozen and hard it seemed to her, that she could not bring herself to acknowledge that certain
words spoken to her husband by the stranger had had any effect on her at all. In the old days,
as she said to herself, they would have hurt her terribly. "You cruelly deserted her because
you wanted to marry a rich woman." She, Nan, was the rich woman for whom Sydney Campion had
deserted another. It was cruel to have made her the cause of Sydney's treachery--the instrument
of his fall. She had never wished to wrong anyone, nor that anyone should be wronged for her
sake. She would not, she thought, have married Sydney if she had known this story earlier.
Why had he married her?--ah, there came in the sting of the sentence which she had overheard:
"You wanted to marry a rich woman." Yes, she was rich. Sydney had not even paid her the very
poor compliment of deserting another woman because he loved her best--he had loved her wealth
and committed a base deed to gain it, that was all.

She was unjust to Sydney in this; but it was almost impossible that she should not be unjust.
The remembrance of his burden of debt came back to her, of the bill that he could not meet,
of the list of his liabilities which he had been so loath to give her, and she told herself
that he had desired nothing but her wealth and the position that she could give him. To attain
his own ends he had made a stepping-stone of her. He was welcome to do so. She would make it
easy for him to use her money, so that he need never know the humiliation of applying to her
for it. Now that she understood what he wanted, she would never again make the mistake of supposing
that he cared for her. But it was hard on her--hard to think that she had given the love of
her youth to a man who valued her only for her gold; hard to know that the dream of happiness
was over, and that the brightness of her life was gone. It was no wonder that Nan's recovery
was slow, when she lay, day after day, night after night, the slow tears creeping down her
cheeks, thinking such thoughts as these. The blow seemed to have broken her heart and her will
to live. It would have been a relief to her to be told that she must die.

Her weakness was probably responsible for part of the depth and darkness of her despair. She
was a puzzle to her sister-in-law, who had been used to find in Nan a never-failing spring
of brightness and gentle mirth. Lady Pynsent began to see signs of something more than a physical
ailment. She said one day, more seriously than usual,

"I hope, Nan, you have not quarreled with your husband."

"Oh no, no," said Nan, starting and flushing guilty; "I never quarrel with Sydney."

"I fancied there was something amiss. Take my advice, Nan, and don't stand on your dignity
with your husband. A man is ready enough to console himself with somebody else if his wife
isn't nice to him. I would make it up if I were you, if there has been anything wrong."

Nan kept silence.

"He is very anxious about you. Don't you think you are well enough to see him to-day?" For
Sydney had not entered Nan's room since that unlucky time when she fainted at his appearance.

"Oh no, no--not to-day," said Nan. And then, collecting herself, she added, "At least--not
just yet--a little later in the afternoon, I mean."

"I'll tell him to look in at four," said Lady Pynsent.

So at four Sydney was admitted, and it would have been hard to say whether husband or wife
felt the more embarrassment. Sydney tried hard to behave as though nothing were amiss between
them. He kissed her and asked after her well-being; but he did so with an inward tremor and
a great uncertainty as to the reception that he should meet with. But she allowed him to kiss
her; she even kissed him in return and smiled a very little, more than once, while he was talking
to her; and he, feeling his heart grow lighter while she smiled, fancied that the shadow of
sadness in her eyes, the lifelessness of her voice and hand, came simply from bodily weakness
and from no deeper cause.

After this first visit, he saw her each day for longer intervals, and realized very quickly
that she had no intention of shunning him or punishing him before the world, as he had feared
that she would do. She was so quiet, so gentle to him, that, with all a man's obtuseness where
women are concerned, he congratulated himself on being let off so easily, and thought that
the matter was to be buried in oblivion. He even wondered a little at Nan's savoir-faire, and
felt a vague sense of disappointment mingling with his relief. Was he to hear no more about
it, although she had been struck down and brought almost to death's door by the discovery of
his wretched story?

It seemed to be so, indeed. For some time he was kept in continual suspense, expecting her
to speak to him on the subject; but he waited in vain. Then, with great reluctance, he himself
made some slight approach, some slight reference to it; a reference so slight that if, as he
sometimes fancied, her illness had destroyed her memory of the conversation which she had overheard
in the study, he need not betray himself. But there was no trace of lack of memory in Nan's
face, when he brought out the words which he hoped would lead to some fuller understanding
between them. She turned scarlet and then white as snow. Turning her face aside, she said,
in a low but very distinct voice,

"I want to hear no more about it, Sydney."

"But, Nan----"

"Please say no more," she interrupted. And something in her tone made him keep silence. He
looked at her for a minute or two, but she would not look at him and so he got up and left
her, with a sense of mingled injury and defeat.

No, she had not forgotten: she was not oblivious; and he doubted whether she had forgiven him
as he thought. The prohibition to speak on the subject chafed him, although he had previously
said to himself that it was next to impossible for him to mention it to her. And he was puzzled,
for he had not followed the workings of Nan's mind in the least, and the words, concerning
his marriage with her and his reasons for it had slipped past him unheeded, while his thoughts
were fixed upon other things.

CHAPTER XL.

"WHO WITH REPENTANCE IS NOT SATISFIED--."

Before the summer came, Mrs. Sydney Campion was well enough to drive out in an open carriage,
and entertain visitors; but it was painfully apparent to her friends that her health had received
a shock from which it had not by any means recovered. She grew better up to a certain point,
and there she seemed to stay. She had lost all interest in life. Day after day, when Sydney
came home, he would find her sitting or lying on a sofa, white and still, with book or work
dropped idly in her lap, her dark eyes full of an unspoken sorrow, her mouth drooping in mournful
curves, her thin cheek laid against a slender hand, where the veins looked strangely blue through
the delicate whiteness of the flesh. But she never complained. When her husband brought her
flowers and presents, as he still liked to do, she took them gently, and thanked him; but he
noticed that she laid them aside and seldom looked at them again. The spirit seemed to have
gone out of her. And in his own heart Sydney raged and fretted--for why, he said to himself,
should she not be like other women?--why, if she had a grudge against him, should she not tell
him so? She might reproach him as bitterly as she pleased; the storm would spend itself in
time and break in sunshine; but this terrible silence was like a nightmare about them both!
He wished that he had the courage to break through it, but he was experiencing the truth of
the saying that conscience makes cowards of us all, and he dared not break the silence that
she had imposed.

One day, when he had brought her some flowers, she put them away from her with a slight unusual
sign of impatience.

"Don't bring me any more," she said.

Her husband looked at her intently. "You don't care for them?"

"No."

"I thought," he said, a little mortification struggling with natural disappointment in his
breast, "that I had heard you say you liked them--or, at any rate, that you liked me to bring
them----"

"That was long ago," she answered softly, but coldly. She lay with her eyes closed, her face
very pale and weary.

"One would think," he went on, spurred by puzzled anger to put a long unspoken thought into
bare words, "that you did not care for me now--that you did not love me any longer?"

She opened her eyes and looked at him steadily. There was something almost like pity in her face.

"I am afraid it is true, Sydney. I am very sorry."

He stood staring at her a little longer, as if he could not believe his ears. The red blood
slowly mounted to his forehead. She returned his gaze with the same look of almost wistful
pity, in which there was an aloofness, a coldness, that showed him as nothing else had ever
done the extent of her estrangement from himself. Somehow he felt as though she had struck
him on the lips. He walked away from her without another word, and shut himself into his study,
where he sat for some minutes at his writing-table, seeing nothing, thinking of nothing, dumbly
conscious that he was, on the whole, more wretched than he had ever been in the course of a
fairly prosperous and successful life.

He loved Nan, and Nan did not love him. Well, there was an end of his domestic happiness. Fortunately,
there was work to be done still, success to be achieved, prizes to win in the world of men.
He was not going to sit down and despair because he had lost a woman's love. And so, with set
lips and frowning brow he once more set to work, and this time with redoubled vigor; but he
knew all the while that he was a very miserable man.

Perhaps if he had seen Nan crying over the flowers that she had just rejected, he might have
hoped that there was still a chance of recovering the place in her heart which he had lost.

But after this short conversation life went on in the old ways. Sydney appeared to be more
than ever engrossed in his work. Nan grew paler and stiller every day. Lady Pynsent became
anxious and distressed.

"Sydney, what are you doing? what are you thinking about?" she said to him one day, when she
managed to catch him for five minutes alone. "Don't you see how ill Nan is?"

"She looks ill; but she always says there is nothing the matter with her."

"That is a very bad sign. I hope you have made her consult a good doctor? There is Burrows--I
should take her to him."

"Burrows! Why, he is a specialist!"

"Nan's mother died of decline. Burrows attended her."

Sydney went away with a new fear implanted in his heart.

Dr. Burrows was sent for, and saw his patient; but he did not seem able to form any definite
opinion concerning her. He said a few words to Sydney, however, which gave him food for a good
deal of reflection during the next day or two.

At the end of that time, he came to Nan's sitting-room with a look of quiet purpose on his
face. "May I speak to you for a minute?" he began formally--he had got into the way of speaking
very formally and ceremoniously to her now. "Can you listen to me?"

"Certainly. Won't you sit down?"

But he preferred to remain standing at an angle where she could not see his face without turning
her head. "I have been talking to Dr. Burrows about you. He tells me, I am sorry to say, that
you are still very weak; but he thinks that there is nothing wrong but weakness, though that
is bad enough in itself. But he wishes me also to say--you will remember that it is he who
speaks, not I--that if you could manage to rouse yourself, Nan, if you would made an effort
to get stronger, he thinks you might do it, if you chose."

"Like Mrs. Dombey," said Nan, with a faint, cheerless smile.

"He is afraid," Sydney went on, with the air of one who repeats a lesson, "that you are drifting
into a state of hopeless invalidism, which you might still avoid. Once in that state you would
not die, Nan, as you might like to do: you would live for years in helpless, useless, suffering.
Nan, my dear, it is very hard for me to say this to you"--his voice quivering--"but I promised
Burrows, for your own sake, that I would. Such a life, Nan, would be torture to you; and you
have still within your power--you can prevent it if you chose."

"It seems to me very cruel to say so," Nan answered, quietly. "What can I do that I have not
done? I have taken all the doctors' remedies and done exactly as they bade me. I am very tired
of being ill and weak, I assure you. It is not my fault that I should like to die."

She began to cry a little as she spoke. Her mouth and chin quivered: the tears ran slowly over
her white cheeks. Sydney drew a step nearer.

"No, it isn't your fault," he said, hoarsely, "it is mine. I believe I am killing you by inches.
Do you want to make me feel myself a murderer? Could you not--even for my poor sake--try to
get stronger, Nan, try to take an interest in something--something healthy and reasonable?
That is what Dr. Burrows says you need; and I can't do this thing for you; I, whom you don't
love any longer," he said, with a sudden fury of passion which stopped her tears at once, "but
who love you with all my heart, as I never loved in all my life before--I swear it before God!"

He stopped short: he had not meant to speak of his love for her, only to urge her to make that
effort over her languor and her indifference which the great physician said she must make before
her health could be restored. Nan lay looking at him, the tears drying on her pale cheeks,
her lips parted, her eyes unusually bright; but she did not speak.

"If there was anything I could do to please you," her husband went on in a quieter tone, "I
would do it. Would you care, for instance, to live abroad? Burrows recommends a bracing air.
If you would go with me to Norway or Switzerland--at once; and then pass the winter at Davos,
or any place you liked; perhaps you would care for that? Is there nothing you would like to
do? You used to say you wanted to see India----"

"But your work!" she broke in suddenly. "You could not go: it is useless to talk of an impossibility."

"If it would make you better or happier, I would go."

"But the House?----"

"Nothing easier than to accept the Chiltern Hundreds," said Sydney.

"And your profession?" said Nan, raising herself on one arm and looking keenly at him.

She saw that he winced at the question, but he scarcely paused before he replied.

"I have thought it well over. I could go on practising when I came back to England; and in
the meantime----I suppose you would have to take me abroad, Nan: I could not well take you,"
he said with a grim sort of jocularity, which she could not help seeing was painful to him.
"If it did you good, as Burrows thinks it would, I should be quite prepared to give up everything
else."

"Give up everything else," Nan murmured. "For me?"

He drew a long breath. "Well, yes. The fact is I have lost some of my old interest in my work,
compared with other things. I have come to this, Nan--I would let my career go to the winds,
if by doing so, I could give you back strength and happiness. Tell me what I can do: that is
all. I have caused you a great deal of misery, I know: if there is any way in which I can----atone----"

He did not go on, and for a few moments Nan could not speak. There was color enough in her
cheeks now, and light in her eyes, but she turned away from him, and would not let him see
her face.

"I want to think over what you have said. Please don't think me ungracious or unkind, Sydney.
I want to do what is best. We can talk about it another time, can we not?"

"Any time you like."

And then he left her, and she lay still.

Had she been wrong all the while? Had she of her own free will allowed herself to drift into
this state of languor, and weakness, and indifference to everything? What did these doctors
know--what did Sydney himself know--of the great wave of disgust and shame and scorn that had
passed over her soul and submerged all that was good and fair? They could not understand: she
said to herself passionately that no man could understand the recoil of a woman's heart against
sensual passion and impurity. In her eyes Sydney had fallen as much as the woman whom he had
betrayed, although she knew that the world would not say so; and in his degradation she felt
herself included. She was dragged down to his level--she was dragged through the mire: that
was the thought that scorched her from time to time like a darting flame of fire. For Nan was
very proud, although she looked so gentle, and she had never before come into contact with
anything that could stain her whiteness of soul.

She had told Sydney that she loved him no longer, and in the deadness of emotion which had
followed on the first acuteness of her grief for her lost idol, and the physical exhaustion
caused by her late illness, she had thought she spoke the truth. But, after all, what was this
yearning over him, in spite of all his errors, but love? what this continual thought of him,
this aching sense of loss, even this intense desire that he should suffer for his sin, but
an awakening within her of the deep, blind love that, as a woman has said, sometimes

    "Stirreth deep below"

the ordinary love of common life, with a

                    "Hidden beating slow,
    And the blind yearning, and the long-drawn breath
    Of the love that conquers death"?

For the first time she was conscious of the existence of love that was beyond the region of
spoken words, or caresses, or the presence of the beloved: love that intertwined itself with
the fibres of her whole being, so that if it were smitten her very life was smitten too. This
was the explanation of her weariness, her weakness, her distaste for everything: the best part
of herself was gone when her love seemed to be destroyed. The invisible cords of love which
bind a mother to her child are explicable on natural grounds; but not less strong, not less
natural, though less common, are those which hold a nature like Nan's to the soul of the man
she loves. That Sydney was unworthy of such a love, need not be said; but it is the office
of the higher nature to seek out the unworthy and "to make the low nature better by its throes."

Nan lay still and looked her love in the face, and was startled to find that it was by no means
dead, but stronger than it had been before. "And he is my husband," she said to herself; "I
am bound to be true to him. I am ashamed to have faltered. What does it matter if he has erred?
I may be bitterly sorry, but I will not love him one whit the less. I could never leave him now."

But a thought followed which was a pain to her. If she loved him in spite of error, what of
her own sense of right and wrong? Was she not in danger of paltering with it in order to excuse
him? would she not in time be tempted to say that he had not erred, that he had done only as
other men do?--and so cloud the fair outlines of truth which had hitherto been mapped out with
ethereal clearness for her by that conscience which she had always regarded, vaguely but earnestly,
as in some sort the voice of God? Would she ever say that she herself had been an ignorant
little fool in her judgment of men and men's temptations, and laugh at herself for her narrowness
and the limitation of her view? Would she come to renounce her high ideal, and content herself
with what was merely expedient and comfortable and "like other people"? In that day, it seemed
to Nan that she will be selling her own soul.

No, the way out of the present difficulty was not easy. She could tell Sydney that she loved
him, but not that she thought him anything but wrong--wrong from beginning to end in the conduct
of his past life. And would he be content with a love that condemned him? How easy it would
be for her to love and forgive him if only he would give her one little sign by which to know
that he himself was conscious of the blackness of that past! Repentance would show at least
that there was no twist in his conscience, no flaw in his ethical constitution; it would set
him right with the universe, if not with himself. For the moment there was nothing Nan so passionately
desired as to hear him own himself in the wrong--not for any personal satisfaction so much
as for his own sake; also that she might then put him upon a higher pedestal than ever, and
worship him as a woman is always able to worship the man who has sinned and repented, rather
than the man who has never fallen from his high estate; to rejoice over him as angels rejoice
over the penitent more than over the just that need no repentance.

       *       *       *       *       *

Sydney was a good deal startled when his wife said to him a few days later, in rather a timid way:

"Your sister has never been here. May I ask her to come and see me?"

"Certainly, if you wish it." He had not come to approve of Lettice's course of action, but
he did not wish his disapproval to be patent to the world.

"I do wish it very much."

Sydney glanced at her quickly, but she did not look back at him. She only said:

"I have her address. I will ask her to come to-morrow afternoon."

"Very well."

So Nan wrote her note, and Lettice came.

As it happened, the two had never met. Lettice's preoccupation with her own affairs, Sydney's
first resentment, now wearing off, and Nan's subsequent illness, had combined to prevent their
forming any acquaintance. But the two women had no sooner clasped hands, and looked into each
other's eyes, than they loved one another, and the sense of mental kinship made itself plain
between them.

They sat down together on the couch in Nan's private sitting-room and fell into a little aimless
talk, which was succeeded by a short, significant silence. Then Nan put out her hand and look
Lettice's in her own.

"You know!" she said, in a whisper.

"I know--what?"

"You know all that is wrong between Sydney and myself. You know what made me ill."

"Yes."

"And you know too--that I love him--very dearly." The words were broken by a sob.

"Yes, dear--as he loves you."

"You think so--really?"

"I am quite sure of it. How could you doubt that?"

"I did doubt it for a time. I heard the man say that he married me because I was--rich."

"And you believed it?"

"I believed anything--everything. And the rest," said Nan, with a rising color in her face,
"the rest was true."

"Dear," said Lettice, gently, "there is only one thing to be said now--that he would be very
glad to undo the past. He is very sorry."

"You think he is?"

"Can you look at him and not see the marks of his sorrow and his pain upon his face? He has
suffered a great deal; and it would be better for him now to forget the past, and to feel that
you forgave him."

Nan brushed away some falling tears, but did not speak at once.

"Lettice," she said at last, in a broken whisper, "I believe I have been very hard and cold
all these long months. I thought I did not care--but I do, I do. Only--I wish I could forget--that
poor girl--and the little child----"

She burst into sudden weeping, so vehement that Lettice put both her arms round the slight,
shaken figure, and tried to calm her by caresses and gentle words.

"Is there nothing that I could do? nothing Sydney could do--to make amends?"

"Nothing," said Lettice gently, but with decision. "They are happy now, and prosperous; good
has come out of the evil, and it is better to forget the evil itself. Don't be afraid; I hear
from them, and about them, constantly, and if ever they were in need of help, our hands would
be the ones stretched out to help them. The good we cannot do to them we can do to others for
their sakes."

And Nan was comforted.

       *       *       *       *       *

Sydney came home early that evening; anxious, disquieted, somewhat out of heart. He found that
Lettice had gone, and that Nan was in her sitting-room. He generally went up to her when he
came in, and this time he did not fail; though his lips paled a little as he went upstairs,
for the thought forced itself upon him that Lettice might have made things worse, not better,
between himself and his wife.

The daylight was fading as he entered the room. Nan was lying down, but she was not asleep,
for she turned her head towards him as he entered. He noticed the movement. Of late she had
always averted her face when he came near her. He wished that he could see her more plainly,
but she was wrapped in shadow, and the room was almost dark.

He asked after her health as usual, and whether Lettice had been and gone. Then silence fell
between them, but he felt that Nan was looking at him intently, and he did not dare to turn away.

"Sydney," she said at last. "Will you come here? Close to me. I want to say something----"

"Yes, Nan?"

He bent down over her, with something like a new hope in his heart. What was she going to say
to him?

"Sydney--will you take me to Switzerland?"

"Certainly." Was that all? "When shall we go?"

"When can you leave London?"

"To-morrow. Any time."

"You really would give up all your engagements, all your prospects, for me?"

"Willingly, Nan."

"I begin to believe," she said, softly, "that you do care for me--a little."

"Nan! Oh, Nan, have you doubted it?"

Her hand stole gently into his; she drew him down beside her.

"Dear Sydney, come, here. Put your arm right round me--so. Now I can speak. I want to tell
you something--many things. It is Lettice that has made me think I ought to say all this. Do
you know, I have felt for a long, long time as if you had killed me--killed the best part of
me, I mean--the soul that loved you, the belief in all that was good and true. That is why
I have been so miserable. I did not know how to bear it. I thought that I did not love you;
but I have loved you all the time; and now--now----"

"Now?" said Sydney. She felt that the arm on which she leaned was trembling like a leaf.

"Now I could love you better than ever--if I knew one thing--if I dared ask----"

"You may ask what you like," he said, in a husky voice.

"It is not such a very great thing," she said, simply; "it is only what you yourself think
about the past: whether you think with me that it is something to be sorry about, or something
to be justified. I feel as if I could forget it if I knew that you were sorry; and if you justified
it--as some men would do--oh, I should never reproach you, Sydney, but I would much rather die!"

There was a silence. His head was on the cushion beside her, but his face was hidden, and she
could gather only from his loud, quick breathing that he was deeply moved. But it was some
time before he spoke. "I don't try to justify myself," he said, at last. "I was wrong--I know
it well enough--and--well if you must have me say it--God knows that I am--sorry."

"Ah," she said, "that is all I wanted you to say. Oh Sydney, my darling, can anything now but
death come between you and me?"

And she drew his head down upon her bosom and let it rest there, dearer in the silent shame
that bowed it before her than in the heyday of its pride.

       *       *       *       *       *

So they were reconciled, and the past sin and sorrow were slowly blotted out in waters of repentance.
Before the world, Sydney Campion is still the gay, confident, successful man that he has always
been--a man who does not make many friends, and who has, or appears to have, an overweening
belief in his own powers. But there is a softer strain in him as well. Within his heart there
is a chamber held sacred from the busy world in which he moves: and here a woman is enshrined,
with all due observance, with lights burning and flowers blooming, as his patron saint. It
is Nan who presides here, who knows the inmost recesses of his thought, who has gauged the
extent of his failures and weakness as well as his success, who is conscious of the strength
of his regrets as well as the burdensome weight of a dead sin. And in her, therefore, he puts
the trust which we can only put in those who know all sides of us, the worst side even as the
best: on her he has even come to lean with that sense of uttermost dependence, that feeling
of repose, which is given to us only in the presence of a love that is more than half divine.

CHAPTER XLI.

A FREE PARDON.

St. James' Hall was packed from end to end one summer afternoon by an eager mob of music lovers--or,
at least, of those who counted themselves as such. The last Philharmonic Concert of the season
had been announced; and as one of its items was Beethoven's Ninth Symphony, the crowd was,
as usual on such an occasion, a great and enthusiastic one.

Even the dark little gallery near the roof, fronting the orchestra, was well filled, for there
are music lovers (mostly those whose purse is lean) who declare that, though the shilling gallery
is hot, and close, and dark, there is in all the room no better place for hearing the great
waves of sound rolled out by the orchestra from the Master's mighty scores. And it was for
this reason that Lettice Campion came up the narrow stairs that afternoon at ten minutes to
three, and found, as she might have expected, that only a few seats against the wall remained
empty. Into the nearest of these she dropped, rather exhausted by her climb and the haste that
she had made; and then she noticed, as her eyes became accustomed to the dim light, that some
one beside her had half turned round, and was looking earnestly into her face.

"Alan!"

The color sprang into Lettice's face: the roll of music that she carried dropped from her lap
as she held out her hand. Alan returned her greeting, and then dived for her music, thus giving
her a moment in which to recover her self-possession. When he came up again, she was still
a little flushed, but she was smiling tranquilly.

"I am so glad to see you," she said simply.

"I don't know what impelled me to come this afternoon. I never thought that I should have this
happiness." Then in a lower tone, "You don't mind my being here? You don't want me to go away?"

"No, no, why should I? It does not matter--here."

They had not seen each other at all for weeks, and had met only two or three times, and then
for a few minutes only, since Alan left Bute Lodge in December. They corresponded freely and
frankly, but Lettice had decreed, in spite of some murmurs from Alan, that they should not
meet. Scandal had been busy with her name, and, until Alan obtained his divorce, it seemed
better to her to live a very retired life, seeing almost nobody, and especially guarding herself
against accusations of any close association with Alan Walcott.

"I had just posted a letter to you before I came out," he said. They were at the end of the
last row of seats and could talk, before the music began, without any fear of being overheard.
"It is as I expected, Lettice. There are great difficulties in our way."

She looked an interrogation.

"The length of time that has elapsed is an obstacle. We cannot find any proof of worse things
than drunkenness and brawling during the last year or two. And of the events before that time,
when I know that she was untrue to me, we scarcely see how to obtain absolute proof. You must
forgive me for mentioning these things to you, but I am obliged."

"Yes, and there is no reason why you should not tell me everything," she said, turning her
quiet eyes upon him with a look of such perfect trust that the tumult in Alan's mind was suddenly
stilled. "But you knew that there would be difficulties. Is there anything else?"

"I hardly know how to tell you. She has done what I half expected her to do--she has brought
a counter charge against me--against----"

"Ah, I understand. All the more, reason, Alan, why we should fight it out."

"My love," he said, in the lowest possible tone that could reach her ears, "if you knew how
it grieves me that you should suffer!"

"But I am suffering with you," she answered tenderly; "and don't you think that I would rather
do that than see you bear your suffering alone?"

Here the first notes of the orchestra fell upon their ear, and the conversation had to cease.
For the next hour or so they had scarcely time to do more than interchange a word or two, but
they sat side by side rapt in a strange content. The music filled their veins with intoxicating
delight; it was of a kind that Lettice rejoiced in exceedingly, and that Alan loved without
quite knowing why. The Tannhauser Overture, the Walküren-Ritt, two of Schubert's loveliest
songs, and the less exciting but more easily comprehensible productions of an earlier classical
composer, were the chief items of the first part of the concert. Then came an interval, after
which the rest of the afternoon would be devoted to the Choral Symphony. But during this interval
Alan hastened to make the most of his opportunity.

"We shall have a bitter time," he murmured in her ear, feeling, nevertheless, that nothing
was bitter which would bring him eventually to her side.

She smiled a little. "Leave it alone then," she said, half mockingly. "Go your own way and
be at peace."

"Lettice! I can never be at peace now without you."

"Is not that very unreasonable of you?" she asked, speaking lightly because she felt so deeply.
The joy of his presence was almost oppressive. She had longed for it so often, and it had come
to her for these two short hours so unexpectedly, that it nearly overwhelmed her.

"No, dearest, it is most natural. I have nobody to love, to trust, but you. Tell me that you
feel as I do, that you want to be mine--mine wholly, and then I shall fight with a better heart,
and be as brave as you have always been."

"Be brave, then," she said with a shadowy smile. "Yes, Alan, if it is any help to you to know
it, I shall be glad when we need never part."

"I sometimes wonder," he murmured, "whether that day will ever come!"

"Oh, yes, it will come," she answered gently. "I think that after our long days of darkness
there is sunshine for us--somewhere--by and by."

And then the music began, and as the two listened to the mighty harmonies, their hands met
and clasped each other under cover of the book which Lettice held, and their hearts seemed
to beat in unison as the joyous choral music pealed out across the hall--

    "Freude, schöner Götterfunken,
      Tochter aus Elysium,
    Wir betreten feuertrunken,
      Himmlische, dein Heiligthum,
    Deine Zauber binden wieder,
      Was die Mode streng getheilt;
    Alle Menschen werden Bruder,
      Wo dein sanfter Flügel weilt."

"I feel," said Alan, as they lingered for a moment in the dimness of the gallery when the symphony
was over, and the crowd was slowly filing out into Regent Street and Piccadilly, "I feel as
if that hymn of joy were the prelude to some new and happier life."

And Lettice smiled in answer, but a little sadly, for she saw no happier life before them but
one, which must be reached through tortuous courses of perplexity and pain.

The dream of joy had culminated in that brief, impulsive, unconscious transmigration of soul
and soul; but with the cessation of the music it dissolved again. The realities of their condition
began to crowd upon them as they left the hall. But the disillusion came gradually. They still
knew and felt that they were supremely happy; and as they waited for the cab, into which Alan
insisted on putting her, she looked at him with a bright and grateful smile.

"I am so glad I saw you. It has been perfect," she said.

He had made her take his arm--more for the sake of closer contact than for any necessity of
the crowd--and he pressed it as she spoke.

"It is not quite over yet," he said. "Let me take you home."

"Thank you, no. Not to-day, Alan. See, there is an empty hansom."

He did not gainsay her, but helped her carefully into the cab, and, when she was seated, leaned
forward to clasp her hand and speak a parting word. But it was not yet spoken when, with a
sharp cry, Lettice started and cast herself in front of him, as though to protect him from
a danger which he could not see.

In the confused press of men and women, horses and carriages, which filled the street at this
hour from side to side, she had suddenly caught sight of a never-forgotten face--a hungry face,
full of malice, full of a wicked exultation, keen for revenge.

Cora Walcott, crossing the road, and halting for a moment at the central landing-place, was
gazing at the people as they poured out of St. James' Hall. As Alan helped Lettice into the
hansom and bent forward to speak to her, she recognized him at once.

Without a pause she plunged madly into the labyrinth of moving carriages and cabs; and it was
then that Lettice saw her, less than three yards away, and apparently in the act of hurling
a missile from her uplifted hand.

It was all the work of an instant. The woman shrieked with impotent rage; the drivers shouted
and stormed at her; men and women, seeing her danger, cried out in their excitement; and, just
as she came within reach of her husband's cab, she was struck by the shaft of a passing brougham,
and fell beneath the horse's hoofs.

It was Lettice's hands that raised the insensible body from the mire. It was Alan who lifted
her into an empty cab, and took her to the nearest hospital--whence she never emerged again
until her last narrow home had been made ready to receive her.

Cora did not regain consciousness before she died. There was no death-bed confession, no clearing
of her husband's name from the dishonor which she had brought upon it, no reawakening of any
kind. Alan would have to go through the world unabsolved by any justification that she was
capable of giving. But with Lettice at his side, he was strong enough, brave enough, to hear
Society's verdict on his character with a smile, and to confront the world steadily, knowing
what a coward thing its censure not unfrequently is; and how conscious courage and purity can
cause it to slink, away abashed.

       *       *       *       *       *

On a certain evening, early in the session of 1885, some half-dozen men were gathered together
in a quiet angle of the members' smoking-room at the Oligarchy Club.

During the past day or two there had been unwonted jubilation in every corner of the Oligarchy,
and with reason, as the Oligarchs naturally thought; for Mr. Gladstone's second Administration
had suddenly come to an end. It had puzzled many good Conservatives to understand how that
Administration, burdened by an accumulation of blunders and disasters, was able to endure so
long; but at any rate the hour of doom had struck at last, and jubilation was natural enough
amongst those who were likely, or thought they were likely, to profit by the change.

Sir John Pynsent and his friends had been discussing with much animation the probable distribution
of the patronage which the see-saw of party government had now placed in the hands of the Conservative
leader. Sir John, whose opinion on this subject was specially valued by his political associates,
had already nominated the Cabinet and filled up most of the subordinate offices; and he had
not omitted to bestow a place of honor and emolument upon his ambitious relative, Sydney Campion.

The good-natured baronet was due that evening at the house of Lord Montagu Plumley, and he
hurried away to keep his appointment. When he had gone the conversation became less general
and more unrestrained, and there were even a few notes of scepticism in regard to some of Sir
John's nominations.

"Plumley is safe enough," said Mr. Charles Milton. "He has worked hard to bring about this
result, and it would be impossible for the new Premier to pass him over. But it is quite another
matter when you come to talk about Plumley's friends, or his friends' friends. I for one shall
be very much surprised if Campion gets the solicitorship."

"He's not half a bad sort," said Tom Willoughby, "and his name is being put forward in the
papers as though some people thought he had a very good chance."

"Ah, yes, we know how that kind of thing is worked. The point most in his favor is that there
are not half-a-dozen men in Parliament good enough for the post."

"What is the objection to him?"

"I don't say there is any objection. He is not a man who makes many friends: and I fancy some
of his best cases have been won more by luck than by judgment. Then he has made one or two
decidedly big mistakes. He will never be quite forgiven for taking up that prosecution of Walcott
for a purely personal object. I know the late Attorney was much put out when he found how he
had been utilized in that affair."

"Pynsent seems to think him pretty sure of the offer."

"Just so; and if anyone can help him to it, Pynsent is the man. That marriage was the best
thing Campion ever did for himself, in more ways than one. He wants holding in and keeping
straight; and his wife has him well in hand, as everybody can see."

"They seem a very happy couple."

"He is devoted to her, that is plain enough; and I never thought he had it in him to care for
anybody but himself. I met them last Easter at Dalton's place. They seemed to hit off extremely
well."

"Oh, she has improved him; there is no doubt about that. She is a very charming woman. What
on earth does Dalton do with himself at Angleford?"

"He has become an orchard man on a grand scale," said Willoughby. "Three years ago he planted
nearly a hundred acres with the best young stocks he could find, and he says he has every apple
in the Pomona worth eating or cooking."

"He has got over that affair with Campion's sister, I suppose?"

"I don't know that he has. Brooke Dalton's one of the finest fellows in existence: there's
a heart in him somewhere, and he does not easily forget. I came upon him and Campion one day
in the garden, and though they knew I was close to them they went on talking about her and
her husband. 'You were always too hard on her, Sydney,' Brooke was saying, 'and now you have
admitted as much.' 'I don't wish to be hard on her, but I can't bear that man,' Campion said--meaning
Walcott, of course. 'Well,' Dalton said,' I am perfectly sure that she would not have stuck
to him through thick and thin, so bravely and so purely, unless she had been convinced of his
innocence. As I believe in her, I am bound to believe in him. Don't you think so?' he said,
turning to me. 'I hope every one who knows her will show her the respect and reverence that
she deserves. Now that they have come back to England, Edith is going to call on her at once.'
Edith is his sister, you know: and she tells my mother that she called immediately."

"How did Campion take it?"

"Very well, indeed. He said, 'You were always a good fellow, Brooke, and I may have been mistaken.'
New thing to hear Campion owning up, isn't it?"

"So the Walcotts have come back?" said Milton, with some excitement. "By Jove, I shall leave
my card to-morrow. Of course, he was innocent. I knew all about it, for I defended him at the
Old Bailey.--No wonder Campion is uncomfortable about it."

The idea seemed to divert Milton very much, and he chuckled over it for two or three minutes.

"From what my mother says," Willoughby continued, "people seem disposed to take them up. Her
books, you know, are awfully popular--and didn't you see how well the papers spoke of his last
poems? You mark my words--there will be a run upon the Walcotts by and by."

"Just the way of the world!" said Charles Milton. "Three or four years ago they would have
lynched him. Poor devil! I remember when I was about the only man in London who refused to
believe him guilty."

"One thing is plain enough," said Tom Willoughby. "He would have gone to the dogs long ago
if it had not been for her. I have not come across many heroines in my time, though I have
heard of plenty from other people; but I am bound to confess that I never heard of one who
deserved the name better than Mrs. Walcott."

       *       *       *       *       *

The world bestowed its free pardon upon Alan Walcott, and for the sake of her who had taught
him to fight against despair and death he accepted graciously a gift which otherwise would
have been useless to him. Inspired by her, he had built a new life upon the ruins of his past;
and if, henceforth, he lived and labored for the world, it was only with the new motives and
the new energy which she had implanted in him.

The house at Chiswick is now their own. There Alan and Lettice crown the joys of a peaceful
existence by remembering the sorrows of other days; and there, in the years to come, they will
teach their children the faith of human sympathy, the hope of human effort, and the charity
of service and sacrifice.

THE END.