I am greatly indebted to the instruction received at various times from those venerable fathers
and authorities on all questions relating to Eden-like pursuits--Mr. Chas. Downing of Newburg,
and Hon. Marshall P. Wilder of Boston, Mr. J. J. Thomas, Dr. Geo. Thurber; to such valuable
works as those of A. S. Fuller, A. J. Downing, P. Barry, J. M. Merrick, Jr.; and some English
authors; to the live horticultural journals in the East, West, and South; and, last but not
least, to many plain, practical fruit-growers who are as well informed and sensible as they
are modest in expressing their opinions.

CORNWALL-ON-THE-HUDSON, NEW YORK.

PREFACE TO THE NEW EDITION

On page 315 of this volume will be found the following words: "To attempt to describe all the
strawberries that have been named would be a task almost as interminable as useless. This whole
question of varieties presents a different phase every four or five years. Therefore I treat
the subject in my final chapter in order that I may give revision, as often as there shall
be occasion for it, without disturbing the body of the book. A few years since certain varieties
were making almost as great a sensation as the Sharpless. They are now regarded as little better
than weeds in most localities." Now that my publishers ask me to attempt this work of revision,
I find that I shrink from it, for reasons natural and cogent to my mind. Possibly the reader
may see them in the same light. The principles of cultivation, treatment of soils, fertilizing,
etc., remain much the same; My words relating to these topics were penned when knowledge--
the result of many years of practical experience--was fresh in memory. Subsequent observation
has confirmed the views I then held, and, what is of far more weight in my estimation, they
have been endorsed by the best and most thoroughly informed horticulturists in the land. I
wrote what I then thought was true; I now read what has been declared true by highest authorities.
I have more confidence in their judgment than in my own, and, having been so fortunate as to
gain their approval, I fear to meddle with a record which, in a sense, has become theirs as
well as mine. Therefore I have decided to leave the body of the book untouched.

When I read the lists of varieties I found many that have become obsolete, many that were never
worthy of a name. Should I revise these lists, as I fully expected to do, from time to time?
At present I have concluded that I will not, for the following reasons:

When, between six and seven years ago, I wrote the descriptions of the various kinds of fruit
then in vogue, I naturally and inevitably reflected the small-fruit world as it then existed.
The picture may have been imperfect and distorted, but I gave it as I saw it. With all its
faults I would like to keep that picture for future reference. The time may come when none
of the varieties then so highly praised and valued will be found in our fields or gardens.
For that very reason I should like to look back to some fixed and objective point which would
enable me to estimate the mutations which had occurred. Originators of new varieties are apt
to speak too confidently and exultantly of their novelties; purchasers are prone to expect
too much of them. Both might obtain useful lessons by turning to a record of equally lauded
novelties of other days. Therefore I would like to leave that sketch of varieties as seen in
1880 unaltered. To change the figure, the record may become a landmark, enabling us to estimate
future progress more accurately. Should the book still meet with the favor which has been accorded
to it in the past, there can be frequent revisions of the supplemental lists which are now
given. Although no longer engaged in the business of raising and selling plants, I have not
lost my interest in the plants themselves. I hope to obtain much of my recreation in testing
the new varieties offered from year to year. In engaging in such pursuits even the most cynical
cannot suspect any other purpose than that of observing impartially the behavior of the varieties
on trial.

I will maintain my grasp on the button-hole of the reader only long enough to state once more
a pet theory--one which I hope for leisure to test at some future time. Far be it from me to
decry the disposition to raise new seedling varieties; by this course substantial progress
has been and will be made. But there is another method of advance which may promise even better
results.

In many of the catalogues of to-day we find many of the fine old varieties spoken of as enfeebled
and fallen from their first estate. This is why they decline in popular favor and pass into
oblivion. Little wonder that these varieties have become enfeebled, when we remember how ninety-nine
hundredths of the plants are propagated. I will briefly apply my theory to one of the oldest
kinds still in existence--Wilson's Albany. If I should set out a bed of Wilson's this spring,
I would eventually discover a plant that surpassed the others in vigor and productiveness--one
that to a greater degree than the others exhibited the true characteristics of the variety.
I should then clear away all the other plants near it and let this one plant propagate itself,
until there were enough runners for another bed. From this a second selection of the best and
most characteristic plants would be made and treated in like manner. It appears to me reasonable
and in accordance with nature that, by this careful and continued selection, an old variety
could be brought to a point of excellence far surpassing its pristine condition, and that the
higher and better strain would become fixed and uniform, unless it was again treated with the
neglect which formerly caused the deterioration. By this method of selection and careful propagation
the primal vigor shown by the varieties which justly become popular may be but the starting-point
on a career of well-doing that can scarcely be limited. Is it asked, "Why is not this done
by plant-growers?" You, my dear reader, may be one of the reasons. You may be ready to expend
even a dollar a plant for some untested and possibly valueless novelty, and yet be unwilling
to give a dollar a hundred for the best standard variety in existence. If I had Wilsons propagated
as I have described, and asked ten dollars a thousand for them, nine out of ten would write
back that they could buy the variety for two dollars per thousand. So they could; and they,
could also buy horses at ten dollars each, and no one could deny that they were horses. One
of the chief incentives of nurserymen to send out novelties is that they may have some plants
for sale on which they can make a profit. When the people are educated up to the point of paying
for quality in plants and trees as they are in respect to livestock, there will be careful
and capable men ready to supply the demand.

Beginning on page 349, the reader will find supplemental bits of varieties which have appeared
to me worthy of mention at the present time. I may have erred in my selection of the newer
candidates for favor, and have given some unwarranted impressions in regard to them. Let the
reader remember the opinion of a veteran fruit-grower. "No true, accurate knowledge of a variety
can be had," he said, "until it has been at least ten years in general cultivation."

I will now take my leave, in the hope that when I have something
further to say, I shall not be unwelcome.
                                             E. P. R.

    CORNWALL-ON-THE-HUDSON, N. Y.
          January 16,1886.

CONTENTS

CHAPTER

I. PRELIMINARY PARLEY

II. THE FRUIT GARDEN

III. SMALL FRUIT FARMING AND ITS PROFITS

IV. STRAWBERRIES: THE FIVE SPECIES AND THEIR HISTORY

V. IDEAL STRAWBERRIES VERSUS THOSE OF THE FIELD AND MARKET

VI. CHOICE OF SOIL AND LOCATION

VII. PREPARING AND ENRICHING THE SOIL

VIII. PREPARATION OF SOIL BY DRAINAGE

IX. THE PREPARATION OF SOILS COMPARATIVELY UNFAVORABLE--CLAY, SAND, ETC

X. COMMERCIAL AND SPECIAL FERTILIZERS

XI. OBTAINING PLANTS AND IMPROVING OUR STOCK

XII. WHEN SHALL WE PLANT?

XIII. WHAT SHALL WE PLANT? VARIETIES, THEIR CHARACTER AND ADAPTATION TO SOILS

XIV. SETTING OUT PLANTS

XV. CULTIVATION

XVI. A SOUTHERN STRAWBERRY FARM, AND METHODS OF CULTURE IN THE SOUTH

XVII. FORCING STRAWBERRIES UNDER GLASS

XVIII. ORIGINATING NEW VARIETIES--HYBRIDIZATION

XIX. RASPBERRIES--SPECIES, HISTORY, PROPAGATION, ETC

XX. RASPBERRIES--PRUNING--STAKING--MULCHING--WINTER PROTECTION, ETC

XXI. RASPBERRIES--VARIETIES OF THE FOREIGN AND NATIVE SPECIES

XXII. RUBUS OCCIDENTALS--BLACK-CAP AND PURPLE-CANE RASPBERRIES

XXIII. THE RASPBERRIES OF THE FUTURE

XXIV. BLACKBERRIES--VARIETIES, CULTIVATION, ETC.

XXV. CURRANTS--CHOICE OF SOIL, CULTIVATION, PRUNING, ETC.

XXVI. CURRANTS, CONTINUED--PROPAGATION, VARIETIES

XXVII. GOOSEBERRIES

XXVIII. DISEASES AND INSECT ENEMIES OF SMALL FRUITS

XXIX. PICKING AND MARKETING

XXX. IRRIGATION

XXXI. SUGGESTIVE EXPERIENCES FROM WIDELY SEPARATED LOCALITIES

XXXII. A FEW RULES AND MAXIMS

XXXIII. VARIETIES OF STRAWBERRIES

XXXIV. VARIETIES OF OTHER SMALL FRUITS

XXXV. CLOSING WORDS

APPENDIX

INDEX

CHAPTER I

PRELIMINARY PARLEY

In the ages that were somewhat shadowed, to say the least, when Nature indulged her own wild
moods in man and the world he trampled on rather than cultivated, there was a class who in
their dreams and futile efforts became the unconscious prophets of our own time--the Alchemists.
For centuries they believed they could transmute base metals into gold and silver. Modern knowledge
enables us to work changes more beneficial than the alchemist ever dreamed of; and it shall
be my aim to make one of these secrets as open as the sunlight in the fields and gardens wherein
the beautiful mutations occur. To turn iron into gold would be a prosaic, barren process that
might result in trouble to all concerned, but to transform heavy black earth and insipid rain-water
into edible rubies, with celestial perfume and ambrosial flavor, is indeed an art that appeals
to the entire race, and enlists that imperious nether organ which has never lost its power
over heart or brain. As long, therefore, as humanity's mouth waters at the thought of morsels
more delicious even than "sin under the tongue," I am sure of an audience when I discourse
of strawberries and their kindred fruits. If apples led to the loss of Paradise, the reader
will find described hereafter a list of fruits that will enable him to reconstruct a bit of
Eden, even if the "Fall and all our woe" have left him possessed of merely a city yard. But
land in the country, breezy hillsides, moist, sheltered valleys, sunny plains-- what opportunities
for the divinest form of alchemy are here afforded to hundreds of thousands!

Many think of the soil only in connection with the sad words of the burial service--"Earth
to earth, ashes to ashes." Let us, while we may, gain more cheerful associations with our kindred
dust. For a time it can be earth to strawberry blossoms, ashes to bright red berries, and their
color will get into our cheeks and their rich subacid juices into our insipid lives, constituting
a mental, moral, and physical alterative that will so change us that we shall believe in evolution
and imagine ourselves fit for a higher state of existence. One may delve in the earth so long
as to lose all dread at the thought of sleeping in it at last; and the luscious fruits and
bright-hued flowers that come out of it, in a way no one can find out, may teach our own resurrection
more effectually than do the learned theologians.

We naturally feel that some good saints in the flesh, even though they are "pillars of the
church," need more than a "sea-change" before they can become proper citizens of "Jerusalem
the Golden;" but having compared a raspberry bush, bending gracefully under its delicious burden,
with the insignificant seed from which it grew, we are ready to believe in all possibilities
of good. Thus we may gather more than berries from our fruit-gardens. Nature hangs thoughts
and suggestions on every spray, and blackberry bushes give many an impressive scratch to teach
us that good and evil are very near together in this world, and that we must be careful, while
seeking the one, to avoid the other. In every field of life those who seek the fruit too rashly
are almost sure to have a thorny experience, and to learn that prickings are provided for those
who have no consciences.

He who sees in the world around him only what strikes the eye lives in a poor, half-furnished
house; he who obtains from his garden only what he can eat gathers but a meagre crop. If I
find something besides berries on my vines, I shall pick it if so inclined. The scientific
treatise, or precise manual, may break up the well-rooted friendship of plants, and compel
them to take leave of each other, after the arbitrary fashion of methodical minds, but I must
talk about them very much as nature has taught me, since, in respect to out-of-door life, my
education was acquired almost wholly in the old-fashioned way at the venerable "dame's school."
Nay more, I claim that I have warrant to gather from my horticultural texts more than can be
sent to the dining table or commission merchant. Such a matter-of-fact plant as the currant
makes some attempt to embroider its humble life with ornament, and in April the bees will prove
to you that honey may be gathered even from a gooseberry bush. Indeed, gooseberries are like
some ladies that we all know. In their young and blossoming days they are sweet and pink-hued,
and then they grow acid, pale, and hard; but in the ripening experience of later life they
become sweet again and tender. Before they drop from their places the bees come back for honey,
and find it.

In brief, I propose to take the reader on a quiet and extended ramble among the small fruits.
It is much the same as if I said, "Let us go a-strawberrying together," and we talked as we
went over hill and through dale in a style somewhat in harmony with our wanderings. Very many,
no doubt, will glance at these introductory words, and decline to go with me, correctly feeling
that they can find better company. Other busy, practical souls will prefer a more compact,
straightforward treatise, that is like a lesson in a class-room, rather than a stroll in the
fields, or a tour among the fruit farms, and while sorry to lose their company, I have no occasion
to find fault.

I assure those, however, who, after this preliminary parley, decide to go further, that I will
do my best to make our excursion pleasant, and to cause as little weariness as is possible,
if we are to return with full baskets. I shall not follow the example of some thrifty people
who invite one to go "a-berrying," but lead away from fruitful nooks, proposing to visit them
alone by stealth. All the secrets I know shall become open ones. I shall conduct the reader
to all the "good places," and name the good things I have discovered in half a lifetime of
research. I would, therefore, modestly hint to the practical reader-- to whom "time is money,"
who has an eye to the fruit only, and with whom the question of outlay and return is ever uppermost--that
he may, after all, find it to his advantage to go with us. While we stop to gather a flower,
listen to a brook or bird, or go out of our way occasionally to get a view, he can jog on,
meeting us at every point where we "mean business." These points shall occur so often that
he will not lose as much time as he imagines, and I think he will find my business talks business-like--quite
as practical as he desires.

To come down to the plainest of plain prose, I am not a theorist on these subjects, nor do
I dabble in small fruits as a rich and fanciful amateur, to whom it is a matter of indifference
whether his strawberries cost five cents or a dollar a quart. As a farmer, milk must be less
expensive than champagne. I could not afford a fruit farm at all if it did not more than pay
its way, and in order to win the confidence of the "solid men," who want no "gush" or side
sentiment, even though nature suggests some warrant for it, I will give a bit of personal experience.
Five years since, I bought a farm of twenty-three acres that for several years had. been rented,
depleted, and suffered to run wild. Thickets of brushwood extended from the fences well into
the fields, and in a notable instance across the entire place. One portion was so stony that
it could not be plowed; another so wet and sour that even grass would not grow upon it; a third
portion was not only swampy, but liable to be overwhelmed with stones and gravel twice a year
by the sudden rising of a mountain stream. There was no fruit on the place except apples and
a very few pears and grapes. Nearly all of the land, as I found it, was too impoverished to
produce a decent crop of strawberries. The location of the place, moreover, made it very expensive--it
cost $19,000; and yet during the third year of occupancy the income from this place approached
very nearly to the outlay, and in 1878, during which my most expensive improvements were made,
in the way of draining, taking out stones, etc., the income paid for these improvements, for
current expenses, and gave a surplus of over $1,800. In 1879, the net income was considerably
larger. In order that these statements may not mislead any one, I will add that in my judgment
only the combined business of plants and fruit would warrant such expenses as I have incurred.
My farm is almost in the midst of a village, and the buildings upon it greatly increased its
cost. Those who propose to raise and sell fruit only should not burden themselves with high-priced
land. Farms, even on the Hudson, can be bought at quite moderate prices at a mile or more away
from centres, and yet within easy reach of landings and railroad depots.

Mr. Charles Downing, whose opinions on all horticultural questions are so justly valued, remarked
to me that no other fruit was so affected by varying soils and climates as the strawberry.
I have come to the conclusion that soil, locality, and climate make such vast differences that
unless these variations are carefully studied and indicated, books will mislead more people
than they help. A man may write a treatise admirably adapted to his own farm; but if one living
a thousand, a hundred, or even one mile away, followed the same method, he might almost utterly
fail. While certain general and foundation principles apply to the cultivation of each genus
of fruit, important modifications and, in some instances, almost radical changes of method
must be made in view of the varied conditions in which it is grown.

It is even more important to know what varieties are best adapted to different localities and
soils. While no experienced and candid authority will speak confidently and precisely on this
point, much very useful information and suggestion may be given by one who, instead of theorizing,
observes, questions, and records facts as they are. The most profitable strawberry of the far
South will produce scarcely any fruit in the North, although the plant grows well; and some
of our best raspberries cannot even exist in a hot climate or upon very light soils. In the
preparation of this book it has been my aim to study these conditions, that I might give advice
useful in Florida and Canada, New York and California, as well as at Cornwall. I have maintained
an extensive correspondence with practical fruit growers in all sections, and have read with
care contributions to the horticultural press from widely separated localities. Not content
with this, I have visited in person the great fruit-growing centres of New Jersey, Norfolk
and Richmond, Va.; Charleston, S. C.; Augusta and Savannah, Ga,; and several points in Florida.
Thus, from actual observation and full, free conversation, I have familiarized myself with
both the Northern and Southern aspects of this industry, while my correspondence from the far
West, Southwest, and California will, I hope, enable me to aid the novice in those regions also.

I know in advance that my book will contain many and varied faults, but I intend that it shall
be an expression of honest opinion. I do not like "foxy grapes" nor foxy words about them.

CHAPTER II

THE FRUIT GARDEN

Raison d'etre

Small fruits, to people who live in the country, are like heaven-- objects of universal desire
and very general neglect. Indeed, in a land so peculiarly adapted to their cultivation, it
is difficult to account for this neglect if you admit the premise that Americans are civilized
and intellectual. It is the trait of a savage and inferior race to devour .with immense gusto
a delicious morsel, and then trust to luck for another. People who would turn away from a dish
of "Monarch" strawberries, with their plump pink cheeks powdered with sugar, or from a plate
of melting raspberries and cream, would be regarded as so eccentric as to suggest an asylum;
but the number of professedly intelligent and moral folk who ignore the simple means of enjoying
the ambrosial viands daily, for weeks together, is so large as to shake one's confidence in
human nature. A well-maintained fruit garden is a comparatively rare adjunct of even stylish
and pretentious homes. In June, of all months, in sultry July and August, there arises from
innumerable country breakfast tables the pungent odor of a meat into which the devils went
but out of which there is no proof they ever came. From the garden under the windows might
have been gathered fruits whose aroma would have tempted spirits of the air. The cabbage- patch
may be seen afar, but too often the strawberry-bed even if it exists is hidden by weeds, and
the later small fruits struggle for bare life in some neglected corner. Indeed, an excursion
into certain parts of Hew England might suggest that many of its thrifty citizens would not
have been content in Eden until they had put its best land into onions and tobacco. Through
the superb scenery of Vermont there flows a river whose name, one might think, would secure
an unfailing tide from the eyes of the inhabitants. The Alpine strawberry grows wild in all
that region, but the puritan smacked his lips over another gift of nature and named the romantic
stream in its honor. To account for certain tastes or tendencies, mankind must certainly have
fallen a little way, or, if Mr. Darwin's view is correct, and we are on a slight up-grade,
a dreadful hitch and tendency to backslide has been apparent at a certain point ever since
the Hebrews sighed for the "leeks and onions of Egypt."

Of course, there is little hope for the rural soul that "loathes" the light manna of small
fruits. We must leave it to evolution for another cycle or two. But, as already indicated,
we believe that humanity in the main has reached a point where its internal organs highly approve
of the delicious group of fruits that strayed out of Paradise, and have not yet lost themselves
among the "thorns and thistles." Indeed, modern skill--the alchemy of our age--has wrought
such wonders that Eden is possible again to all who will take the trouble to form Eden- like
tastes and capacities.

The number who are doing this is increasing every year, The large demand for literature relating
to out-of-door life, horticultural journals, like the fruits of which they treat, flourishing
in regions new and remote, are proof of this. The business of supplying fruit- trees, plants,
and even flowers, is becoming a vast industry. I have been informed that one enterprising firm
annually spends thousands in advertising roses only.

But while we welcome the evidences that so many are ceasing to be bucolic heathen, much observation
has shown that the need of further enlightenment is large indeed. It is depressing to think
of the number of homes about which fruits are conspicuous only by their absence-- homes of
every class, from the laborer's cottage and pioneer's cabin to the suburban palace. Living
without books and pictures is only a little worse than living in the country without fruits
and flowers. We must respect to some extent the old ascetics, who, in obedience to mistaken
ideas of duty, deprived themselves of the good things God provided, even while we recognize
the stupidity of such a course. Little children are rarely so lacking in sense as to try to
please their father by contemptuously turning away from his best gifts, or by treating them
with indifference. Why do millions live in the country, year after year, raising weeds and
brambles, or a few coarse vegetables, when the choicest fruits would grow almost as readily?
They can plead no perverted sense of duty.

It is a question hard to answer. Some, perhaps, have the delusion that fine small fruits are
as difficult to raise as orchids. They class them with hot-house grapes. Others think they
need so little attention that they can stick a few plants in hard, poor ground and leave them
to their fate. One might as well try to raise canary-birds and kittens together as strawberries
and weeds. There is a large class who believe in small fruits, and know their value. They enjoy
them amazingly at a friend's table, and even buy some when they are cheap., A little greater
outlay and a little intelligent effort would give them an abundant supply from their own grounds.
In a vague way they are aware of this, and reproach themselves for their negligence, but time
passes and there is no change for the better. Why? I don't know. There are men who rarely kiss
their wives and children. For them the birds sing unheeded and even unheard; flowers become
mere objects, and sunsets suggest only "quitting time." In theory they believe in all these
things. What can be said of them save that they simply jog on to-day as they did yesterday,
ever dimly hoping at some time or other "to live up to their privileges"? But they usually
go on from bad to worse, until, like their neglected strawberry-beds, they are "turned under."

In cities not a hundred miles from my farm there are abodes of wealth with spacious grounds,
where, in many instances, scarcely any place is found for small fruits. "It is cheaper and
easier to buy them," it is said. This is a sorry proof of civilization. There is no economy
in the barbaric splendor of brass buttons and livery, but merely a little trouble (I doubt
about money) is saved on the choicest luxuries of the year. The idea of going out of their
rural paradises to buy half-stale fruit! But this class is largely at the mercy of the "hired
man," or his more disagreeable development, the pretentious smatterer, who, so far from possessing
the knowledge that the English, Scotch, or German gardeners acquire in their long, thorough
training, is a compound of ignorance and prejudice. To hide his barrenness of mind he gives
his soul to rare plants, clipped lawns, but stints the family in all things save his impudence.
If he tells his obsequious employers that it is easier and cheaper to buy their fruit than
to raise it, of course there is naught to do but go to the market and pick up what they can;
and yet Dr. Thurber says, with a vast deal of force, that "the unfortunate people who buy their
fruit do not know what a strawberry is."

In all truth and soberness it is a marvel and a shame that so many sane people who profess
to have passed beyond the habits of the wilderness will not give the attention required by
these unexacting fruits. The man who has learned to write his name can learn to raise them
successfully. The ladies who know how to keep their homes neat through the labors of their
"intelligent help," could also learn to manage a fruit garden even though employing the stupidest
oaf that ever blundered through life. The method is this: First learn how yourself, and then
let your laborer thoroughly understand that he gets no wages unless he does as he is told.
In the complicated details of a plant farm there is much that needs constant supervision, but
the work of an ordinary fruit garden is, in the main, straightforward and simple. The expenditure
of a little time, money, and, above all things, of seasonable labor, is so abundantly repaid
that one would think that bare self-interest would solve invariably the simple problem of supply.

As mere articles of food, these fruits are exceedingly valuable. They are capable of sustaining
severe and continued labor. For months together we might become almost independent of butcher
and doctor if we made our places produce all that nature permits. Purple grapes will hide unsightly
buildings; currants, raspberries, and blackberries will grow along the fences and in the corners
that are left to burdocks and brambles. I have known invalids to improve from the first day
that berries were brought to the table, and thousands would exchange their sallow complexions,
sick headaches, and general ennui for a breezy interest in life and its abounding pleasures,
if they would only take nature's palpable hint, and enjoy the seasonable food she provides.
Belles can find better cosmetics in the fruit garden than on their toilet tables, and she who
paints her cheeks with the pure, healthful blood that is made from nature's choicest gifts,
and the exercise of gathering them, can give her lover a kiss that will make him wish for another.

The famous Dr. Hosack, of New York City, who attended Alexander Hamilton after he received
his fatal wound from Burr, was an enthusiast on the subject of fruits. It was his custom to
terminate his spring course of lectures with a strawberry festival. "I must let the class see,"
he said, "that we are practical as well as theoretical. Linnaeus cured his gout and protracted
his life by eating strawberries."

"They are a dear article," a friend remarked, "to gratify the appetites of so many."

"Yes, indeed," replied the doctor, "but from our present mode of culture they will become cheap."

It is hard to realize how scarce this fruit was sixty or seventy years ago, but the prediction
of the sagacious physician has been verified even beyond his imagination. Strawberries are
raised almost as abundantly as potatoes, and for a month or more can be eaten as a cheap and
wholesome food by all classes, even the poorest. By a proper selection of varieties we, in
our home, feast upon them six weeks together, and so might the majority of those whose happy
lot is cast in the country. The small area of a city yard planted with a few choice kinds will
often yield surprising returns under sensible culture.

If we cultivate these beautiful and delicious fruits we always have the power of giving pleasure
to others, and he's a churl and she a pale reflection of Xantippe who does not covet this power.
The faces of our guests brighten as they snuff from afar the delicate aroma. Our vines can
furnish gifts that our friends will ever welcome; and by means of their products we can pay
homage to genius that will be far more grateful than commonplace compliments. I have seen a
letter from the Hon. Wm. C. Bryant, which is a rich return for the few strawberries that were
sent to him, and the thought that they gave him pleasure gives the donor far more. They are
a gift that one can bestow and another take without involving any compromise on either side,
since they belong to the same category as smiles, kind words, and the universal freemasonry
of friendship. Faces grow radiant over a basket of fruit or flowers that would darken with
anger at other gifts.

If, in the circle of our acquaintance, there are those shut up to the weariness and heavy atmosphere
of a sick-room, in no way can we send a ray of sunlight athwart their pallid faces more effectually
than by placing a basket of fragrant fruit on the table beside them. Even though the physician
may render it "forbidden fruit," their eyes will feast upon it, and the aroma will teach them
that the world is not passing on, unheeding and uncaring whether they live or die.

The Fruit and Flower Mission of New York is engaged in a beautiful and most useful charity.
Into tenement-houses and the hot close wards of city hospitals, true sisters of mercy of the
one Catholic church of love and kindness carry the fragrant emblems of an Eden that was lost,
but may be regained even by those who have wandered farthest from its beauty and purity. Men
and women, with faces seemingly hardened and grown rigid under the impress of vice, that but
too correctly reveal the coarse and brutal nature within, often become wistful and tender over
some simple flower or luscious fruit that recalls earlier and happier days. These are gifts
which offend no prejudices, and inevitably suggest that which is good, sweet, wholesome and
pure. For a moment, at least, and perhaps forever, they may lead stained and debased creatures
to turn their faces heavenward. There are little suffering children also in the hospitals;
there are exiles from country homes and country life in the city who have been swept down not
by evil but the dark tides of disaster, poverty, and disease, and to such it is a privilege
as well as a pleasure to send gifts that will tend to revive hope and courage. That we may
often avail ourselves of these gracious opportunities of giving the equivalent of a "cup of
cold water," we should plant fruits and flowers in abundance.

One of the sad features of our time is the tendency of young people to leave their country
homes. And too often one does not need to look far for the reason. Life at the farm-house sinks
into deep ruts, and becomes weary plodding. There are too many "one-ideaed" farmers and farms.
It is corn, potatoes, wheat, butter, or milk. The staple production absorbs all thought and
everything else is neglected. Nature demands that young people should have variety, and furnishes
it in abundance. The stolid farmer too often ignores nature and the cravings of youth, and
insists on the heavy monotonous work of his specialty, early and late, the year around, and
then wonders why in his declining years there are no strong young hands to lighten his toil.
The boy who might have lived a sturdy, healthful, independent life among his native hills is
a bleached and sallow youth measuring ribbons and calicoes behind a city counter. The girl
who might have been the mistress of a tree-shadowed country house disappears under much darker
shadows in town. But for their early home life, so meagre and devoid of interest, they might
have breathed pure air all their days.

Not the least among the means of making a home attractive would be a well-maintained fruit
garden. The heart and the stomach have been found nearer together by the metaphysicians than
the physiologists, and if the "house-mother," as the Germans say, beamed often at her children
over a great dish of berries flanked by a pitcher of unskimmed milk, not only good blood and
good feeling would be developed, but something that the poets call "early ties."

There is one form of gambling or speculation that, within proper limits, is entirely innocent
and healthful--the raising of new seedling fruits and the testing of new varieties. In these
pursuits the elements of chance, skill, and judgment enter so evenly that they are an unfailing
source of pleasurable excitement. The catalogues of plant, tree, and seed dealers abound in
novelties. The majority of them cannot endure the test of being grown by the side of our well-
known standard kinds, but now and then an exceedingly valuable variety, remarkable for certain
qualities or peculiarly adapted to special localities and uses, is developed. There is not
only an unfailing pleasure in making these discoveries, but often a large profit. If, three
or four years ago, a country boy had bought a dozen Sharpless strawberry plants, and propagated
from them, he might now obtain several hundred dollars from their increased numbers. Time only
can show whether this novelty will become a standard variety, but at present the plants are
in great demand.

The young people of a country home may become deeply interested in originating new seedlings.
A thousand strawberry seeds will produce a thousand new kinds, and, although the prospects
are that none of them will equal those now in favor, something very fine and superior may be
obtained. Be this as it may, if these simple natural interests prevent boys and girls from
being drawn into the maelstrom of city life until character is formed, each plant will have
a value beyond silver or gold.

One of the supreme rewards of human endeavor is a true home, and surely it is as stupid as
it is wrong to neglect some of the simplest and yet most effectual means of securing this crown
of earthly life. A home is the product of many and varied causes, but I have yet to see the
man who will deny that delicious small fruits for eight months of the year, and the richer
pleasure even of cultivating and gathering them, may become one of the chief contributions
to this result. I use the words "eight months" advisedly, for even now, January 29, we are
enjoying grapes that were buried in the ground last October. I suppose my children are very
material and unlike the good little people who do not live long, but they place a white mark
against the days on which we unearth a jar of grapes.

CHAPTER III

SMALL FRUIT FARMING AND ITS PROFITS

