A great many years ago the vicar of Dawlish and his clerk had been to Teignmouth to collect
tithes, and were riding home along the cliffs on a dark wet night when they lost their way.
Suddenly they came to a house that they did not remember having seen before. The windows were
bright and light, and they could hear the shouts and laughter of a very merry company within;
they were just wishing themselves inside when a window was thrown open and they were invited
to come in, an invitation they very willingly accepted, and they soon began to enjoy themselves,
drinking deeply and waxing merrier every moment, the parson singing songs that were quite unfit
for a priest, entirely forgetting the sanctity of his calling, while the clerk followed his
master's example. They stayed long, and when, with giddy heads and unsteady legs, they rose
to depart, the parson said he was sure he could not find the way, and he must have a guide,
even if it were the devil himself. The man who had invited them into the house said he would
put them on the right way for Dawlish, and led them to the top of the road, and telling them
to go straight on, immediately disappeared. When they had gone a little way, they thought the
tide uncommonly high, as it reached their feet, although a minute before they were sure they
were on dry land; and the more they attempted to ride away the faster rose the water! Boisterous
laughter now echoed around, and they shouted for help, and a bright flash of lightning revealed
the figure of their guide, who was none other than the devil himself, jeering and pointing
over the black stormy sea into which they had ridden. Morning came, and their horses were found
quietly straying on the sands, but neither the parson nor his clerk were ever seen again: but
meantime two isolated rocks, in which were seen their images, had risen in the sea as a warning
to their brethren of future generations to have no fellowship with the unfruitful works of
darkness.

From the Teignmouth side the Parson appeared seated in a pulpit the back of which was attached
to the cliff, while under him was an arch just like the entrance to a cave, through which the
sea appeared on both sides; while the poor Clerk was some distance farther out at sea and much
lower down. We thought it was a shame that the parson should be sitting up there, watching
the poor clerk with the waves dashing over him, as if perfectly helpless to save himself from
drowning. Still, that was the arrangement of the three-decker pulpit so common in the churches
of a hundred years ago--the clerk below, the parson above.

Our road terminated on the beach at Teignmouth, and near St. Michael's Church, where on a tablet
appeared the figure of a ship, and underneath the following words:

  SACRED TO THE MEMORY

          OF

    RICHARD WESTLAKE,

     AGED 27 YEARS,

  MASTER OF THE BRIG "ISLA,"

    ALSO JOHN WESTLAKE,

   HIS BROTHER, AGED 24 YEARS,

  WHO LOST THEIR LIVES IN THE SAID
  BRIG WHICH FOUNDER'D IN THE STORM
  ON THE 29TH DAY OF OCTOBER 1823
    WITHIN SIGHT OF THIS CHURCH.

  Readers be at all times ready, for you
  Know not what a day may bring forth.

Teignmouth was a strange-looking town, and the best description of it was by the poet Winthrop
Mackworth Praed, who described it as seen in his time from the top of the Ness Rock:

  A little town was there,
  O'er which the morning's earliest beam
  Was wandering fresh and fair.
  No architect of classic school
  Had pondered there with line and rule--
  The buildings in strange order lay,
  As if the streets had lost their way;
  Fantastic, puzzling, narrow, muddy,
  Excess of toil from lack of study.
  Where Fashion's very latest fangles
  Had no conception of right angles.

Possibly the irregular way in which the old portion of the town had been built was due to the
inroads of the French, who had invaded and partially destroyed the town on two occasions; for
in those days the English coast between Portland and Plymouth was practically undefended. By
way perhaps of reprisal Teignmouth contributed seven ships and 120 mariners to Edward III's
expedition to Calais in 1347.

That unfortunate young poet John Keats visited Teignmouth in 1818. He had begun to write his
poem "Endymion" in the Isle of Wight the year before, and came here to revise and finish it.
The house where he resided, with its old-fashioned door and its three quaint bow windows rising
one above another, was pointed out to us, as well as a shop at that time kept by the "three
pretty milliners" in whom poor Keats was so greatly interested. Endymion was a beautiful youth
whom Selene, the moon, wrapped in perpetual sleep that she might kiss him without his knowledge.
Keats, who was in bad health when he came to Teignmouth, was reported to have said he could
already feel the flowers growing over him, and although he afterwards went to Rome, the warmer
climate failed to resuscitate him, and he died there in 1820, when only twenty-five years old.

We had expected to have to walk thirty miles that day, via Newton Abbot, before reaching Torquay;
but were agreeably surprised to find we could reduce the mileage to twenty-three and a half
by crossing a bridge at Teignmouth. The bridge was quite a formidable affair, consisting of
no less than thirty-four arches, and measured 1,671 feet from shore to shore. It was, moreover,
built of beams of wood, and as it had been in existence since the year 1827, some of the timber
seemed rather worn. The open rails at the sides and the water below, and our solemn thoughts
about Keats, tended to give us the impression that we were not altogether safe, and we were
glad when we reached the other side, and landed safely at St. Nicholas, or rather at the villages
which formed the southern portion of Teignmouth. With the Ness Rock, a huge dark red rock with
a nose turned upwards towards the sky, to our left, we walked briskly along the coast road
towards Torquay in order to reach that town before dark, as we were obliged to find a good
inn to stay in over the Sunday. Continuing along this road, with fine views in the neighbourhood
of Anstey's Cove, we soon arrived at Torquay, of which we had heard such glowing descriptions
on our journey.

Near the entrance to the town we overtook a clergyman, with whom we entered into conversation,
telling him of our long journey, in which he was much interested. We asked him if he could
recommend us a good hotel where we could stay until Monday morning, as we did not walk on Sundays;
and he suggested that we should stay at one of the boarding-houses. We had never thought of
staying at these places, but when he said he knew of one that would just suit us, and would
be pleased to accompany us there, we were delighted to accept his kind offer.

I knew my brother was rather suspicious of boarding-houses, and when we arrived opposite the
rather nice house where the clergyman had taken us I noticed he looked rather critically at
the windows both below and above. When he saw that the curtains were drawn equally on each
side of the windows and all the blinds drawn down to almost exactly the same distance, he was
quite satisfied, as he had often said it was a sure sign that there was somebody in the house
who was looking after it, and that similar order would be certain to reign within.

The clergyman was evidently well known to the people at the house, and an introduction to the
master and mistress, and (shall we record?) to their two daughters as well, placed us immediately
upon the best of terms with the whole family. We received every attention, and after a good
tea we had a walk in and around the town, and were well pleased with the appearance of Torquay.
It was a much larger place than we had anticipated. In a stationer's shop window we saw exhibited
a small Guide to Torquay, published in Manchester, and sold for the small sum of one penny,
from which we learned that the population of Torquay had risen enormously during the past few
years, for while it registered 11,294 in 1858 and 16,682 in 1868, in 1871, the year of our
journey, it stood at 26,477; and it further informed us that the distance from there to London
was 216 miles, and that "the express which leaves Paddington at 9.15 and arrives at Torquay
at 4.34 has a third-class carriage for Torquay"--an example of the speed of express trains
in those days. The Guide must have only just been issued, evidently in advance for the coming
year, as it gave the Torquay High Water Table from May to October inclusive for 1872, and the
following precise account of Anstey's Cove.

   ANSTIS COVE

   Anstis Cove deserves a special visit. Passing from the Strand, under
   an avenue of trees opposite the Post-Office, and leaving the Public
   Gardens on the right hand, the visitor will go as straight as the
   road will permit till he comes in sight of St. Matthias' Church. The
   road to the right leads down to Anstis Cove. He will notice among the
   ferns and trees a door in the mossy bank, like the entrance to a
   hermitage in the wilderness. It is the door of the venerable Kent's
   Cavern. Persons who are now employed by the Torquay Natural History
   Society will guide the visitor and supply candles. The vast cavern is
   six hundred and fifty feet in length, with small caverns and
   corridors, which are most dangerous without a guide, rugged, wet, and
   slippery. Some years ago the skeleton of a woman who had lost her way
   was found. No one now enters without a guide. In some parts the
   cavern is so low that the visitors are obliged to crawl and squeeze,
   but in other parts it is 30 feet high. The eminent geologist, Dr.
   Buckland, here discovered the bones of rhinoceros, elephants, lions,
   wolves, bears, hippopotami, and hyaenas--beasts of prey that haunted
   the forests of prehistoric England before the times of the Celts.
   Rude implements which have been found in the cavern prove that in
   very remote times it was the resort of savage tribes. The cavern is
   now in process of careful examination by qualified persons, at the
   expense of the British Association, to whom they make periodical
   reports. Fossil remains which have been, discovered may be seen at
   the museum of the Natural History Society, in Park Street, between
   the hours of ten and four daily.

   But Anstis Cove is the object of our search. Proceeding down the
   shady lane, taking the first turning on the left hand, we find a
   gateway leading to a footpath among all kinds of bushes and shady
   trees, down to the pebbly beach. The lofty limestone cliff of Walls
   Hill is before us--such rocks as are nowhere else to be seen. They
   seem like huge monsters creeping into the ocean. Here, amongst huge
   rocks on the shore, are the bathing machines. The water is clear as
   crystal. Rowing-boats are also here for hire, and here the strata of
   the neighbouring cliffs hanging over the sea can be examined. Here is
   a cottage, too, where lobsters and picnic viands may be procured. On
   the beach the fossil Madrepore is often found.

We were the only visitors at the boarding-house, where the cleanliness and the catering were
all that could be desired. The young ladies vied with each other to make our visit a pleasant
one, and after a good supper we stayed up relating some of our adventures until the clock struck
ten, when we retired for a well-earned rest, having walked quite 179 miles that week.

(Distance walked twenty-three and a half miles.)

Sunday, November 12th.

We rose at our usual early hour this morning, and were downstairs long before our friends anticipated
our arrival, for they naturally thought that after our long walk we should have been glad of
an extra hour or two's rest; but habit, as in the time of Diogenes, had become second nature,
and to remain in bed was to us equivalent to undergoing a term of imprisonment. As boot-cleaning
in those days was a much longer operation than the more modern boot-polish has made it, we
compromised matters by going out in dirty boots on condition that they were cleaned while we
were having breakfast. It was a fine morning, and we were quite enchanted with Torquay, its
rocks and its fine sea views on one side, and its wooded hills on the other, with mansions
peeping out at intervals above the trees. We could not recall to mind any more beautiful place
that we had visited.

After breakfast we attended morning service at the church recommended by our host, but after
travelling so much in the open air the change to the closer atmosphere of a church or chapel
affected us considerably. Although we did not actually fall asleep, we usually became very
drowsy and lapsed into a dreamy, comatose condition, with shadowy forms floating before us
of persons and places we had seen in our travels. The constant changes in position during the
first part of the Church Service invariably kept us fairly well alive, but the sermon was always
our chief difficulty, as during its delivery no change of posture was required. When the service
began, however, we were agreeably surprised to find that the minister who officiated was none
other than the clergyman who had so kindly interested himself in finding us lodgings yesterday.

The preacher referred feelingly to a great storm or tornado which had visited the South Coast
about six years before, when a large number of ships, sheltering in Torbay, were swept out
by a sudden change in the wind and over forty of them were sunk. This happened in the month
of January, when drifting snow filled the eyes of the spectators, who were within hearing distance
but could render no assistance. The Brixham sailors acted most bravely and saved many lives,
but over one hundred people were drowned. We could see that some members of the congregation
still mourned the loss of friends who had perished on that sad occasion.

We were well pleased with the service, and after a short ramble returned to our lodgings for
dinner at one o'clock, afterwards adjourning to the drawing-room, where we were presently joined
by our host, who suggested a walk that afternoon to see the beautiful views in the neighbourhood,
a proposition to which we readily assented.

But while he was getting ready my brother happened to strike a few chords on the piano, which
immediately attracted the attention of the two young ladies, who told us they had seen us at
church, where they were in the choir. They were beginning to learn some pieces to sing at Christmas,
and, producing a pianoforte copy, asked my brother to play the accompaniment while they tried
them over. He made some excuses, but they said they knew he could play as soon as they heard
him strike the chords; so, as his excuses were not accepted, he had to submit to the inevitable---not
altogether unwillingly. They had only just begun when their father came into the room and claimed
our company for the promised walk, and, as I was the only member of the party ready to join
him, we went out with the understanding that they would follow us. After walking a short distance
I suggested waiting for them, but the gentleman assured me they knew the way he always went
on Sundays, and would be sure to find us. I enjoyed the company of our host, as he seemed to
know the history of the whole neighbourhood, and possessed a fund of information ready at command
concerning every object of interest we saw. He pointed out Portland in the far distance, where
convicts worked, and where the stones used for sharpening scythes were produced. He also told
me that formerly Torquay consisted merely of a few cottages inhabited by fishermen, but some
nobleman bought the place for £13,000, and let the ground in lots on short leases for building
purposes. Now that it was covered with fine houses, he received tens of thousands a year from
chief rent, while many of the houses would come to his family in a few years' time.

It surprised me greatly how much I missed my brother's company. We had never been separated
for so long a period during the whole of our journey, and at every turn I found myself instinctively
turning round to see if he were following. It was a lovely walk, but when we reached the house
on our return, neither my brother nor the young ladies were to be found, and it was nearly
time for the five-o'clock tea before they returned. They all looked very pleasant, and assured
us they had followed us as promised, and the young ladies seemed able to convince their father
that they had done so; but to my mind the matter was never satisfactorily cleared up, and I
often reminded my brother in after years about those two young ladies at Torquay, who, by the
way, were very good-looking. Many years afterwards some poetry was written by a lady who must
have been an authority on the "Little Maids of Devon," for she wrote:

  Oh! the little maids of Devon,
    They've a rose in either cheek,
  And their eyes like bits of heaven
    Meet your own with glances meek;
  But within them there are tiny imps
    That play at hide and seek!

  Oh! the little maids of Devon,
    They have skins of milk and cream,
  Just as pure and clear and even
    As a pool in Dartmoor stream;
  But who looks at them is holden
    With the magic of a dream.

  Oh! the little maids of Devon,
    They have honey-coloured hair.
  Where the sun has worked like leaven.
    Turning russet tones to fair,
  And they hold you by the strands of it,
    And drive you to despair.

  Oh! the little maids of Devon,
  They have voices like a dove,
  And Jacob's years of seven
  One would serve to have their love;
  But their hearts are things of mystery
  A man may never prove!

We all attended church again for evening service, and after supper passed the evening singing
hymns, in which I was able to join, some of them very beautiful and selected because they had
been composed by people connected with the County of Devon.

The first vicar of Lower Brixham was the Rev. Henry Francis Lyte, who at fifty-four years of
age began to suffer from consumption, and who, when he knew he had not long to live, prayed
that he might be enabled to write something that would live to the glory of God after he was
dead. As a last resource he had been ordered by the doctors to go to the Riviera, where he
died at Nice a month later.

Then there was the Rev. A.M. Toplady, for some time vicar of Broad Hembury, near Honiton.

All these hymns are sung in every part of the world where the English tongue is spoken.

The two ladies were good singers, one soprano and the other contralto, while I sang tenor and
my brother tried to sing bass; but, as he explained, he was not effective on the lower notes
(nor, as a matter of fact, on the high ones either). He said afterwards it was as much as he
could do to play the music without having to join in the singing, and at one point he narrowly
escaped finishing two bars after the vocalists. Still we spent a very pleasant evening, the
remembrance of which remained with us for many years, and we often caught ourselves wondering
what became of those pretty girls at Torquay.

NINTH WEEK'S JOURNEY

Monday, November 13th.

From time immemorial Torbay had been a favourite landing-place both for friends and foes, and
it was supposed that the Roman Emperors Vespasian, Titus, and Adrian, when on their way to
the camp on Milber Downs, had each landed near the place where Brixham now stands. Brixham
was the best landing-place in the Bay, and the nearest to the open sea. It was a fishing-place
of some importance when Torquay, its neighbour, was little known, except perhaps as a rendezvous
of smugglers and pirates. Leland, in his famous Itinerary written in the sixteenth century,
after describing the Bay of Torre as being about four miles across the entrance and "ten miles
or more in compace," says: "The Fishermen hath divers tymes taken up with theyr nettes yn Torre-bay
mussons of harts, whereby men judge that in tymes paste it hath been forest grounds." Clearly
much of England has been washed away or has sunk beneath the ocean. Is not this part of the
"Lyonesse" of the poets--the country of romance--the land of the fairies?

In 1588, when the Spanish Armada appeared outside the Bay, there was great excitement in the
neighbourhood of Torbay, which grew into frenzy when the first capture was towed in. The Rosario,
or, to give her the full name, Nuestra Señora del Rosario, was a fine galleon manned by 450
men and many gallant officers. She was the capitana, or flagship, of the squadron commanded
by Don Pedro de Valdez, who had seen much service in the West Indies and who, because of his
special knowledge of the English Channel, was of great importance in the council of the Armada.
He was a bold, skilful leader, very different from the Commander-in-Chief, and as his ship
formed one of the rearguard he took an early part in the fight with the pursuing English. He
was badly mauled, losing his foremast and suffering worse by fouling two ships, one of his
own squadron, the other a Biscayan; all three were damaged. He demanded assistance of Medina
Sidonia, but the weather was rough and the Duke refused. In the darkness the Rosario drove
off one or two English attempts to cut her off, but Drake himself in the famous Revenge lay
alongside and called upon Valdez to surrender. His reply was a demand for honourable terms,
to which Drake answered that he had no time for parley--the Spanish commander must come aboard
at once or he would rake her. The name of Drake (El Draque, the Dragon) was enough for the
Spaniard, and Valdez, in handing over his sword, took credit to himself that he yielded to
the most famous captain of his day. Drake in reply promised good treatment and all the lives
of the crew, a thing by no means usual, as can be guessed by the remark of the disgusted Sheriff,
when so many prisoners were handed over at Torbay; he wished "the Spaniards had been made into
water-spaniels." Drake sent the Roebuck to see the ship safely into Torbay, where she was left
in charge of the Brixham fishermen, her powder being secured at once and sent by the quickest
of the fishing-boats to our own ships, at that moment badly in need of it. The prisoners were
taken round to Torbay, where they were lodged in a building ever afterwards known as the "Spanish
barn."

In 1601 the first squadron organised by the East India Company sailed from Torbay, and in 1667
the Dutch fleet, commanded by De Ruyter, paid the Bay a brief but not a friendly visit, doing
some damage. In 1688 another fleet appeared--this time a friendly one, for it brought William,
Prince of Orange, who had been invited to occupy the English throne abdicated by James II.
We were informed that when his ship approached the shore he spoke to the people assembled there
in broken English--very broken--saying, "Mine goot people, mine goot people, I mean you goot;
I am come here for your goot, for your goots," and suggested that if they were willing to welcome
him they should come and fetch him ashore; whereupon one Peter Varwell ran into the sea, and
carried the new King to the shore, gaining much renown for doing so. This happened on November
5th, the date for landing doubtless having been arranged to coincide with the anniversary of
the attempt of Guy Fawkes to blow up the Houses of Parliament with gunpowder eighty-three years
before, so that bonfire day served afterwards to celebrate the two occasions. The house where
William stayed that night was still pointed out in Brixham.

In 1690 James II, who had been dethroned and exiled to France, told Tourville, the French Admiral,
that if he would take his fleet to the South of England he would find all the people there
ready to receive him back again, so he brought his ships off Torbay. Instead of a friendly
reception here, he found the people decidedly hostile to James's cause, so he detached two
or three of his galleys to Teignmouth, quite a defenceless place, where they committed great
ravages and practically destroyed the town. These galleys were a class of boat common in the
Mediterranean, where they had been employed ever since the warlike times of the Greeks and
Romans. In addition to sails, they were propelled with oars manned by slaves; and a similar
class of ship worked by convicts was used by the French down to the middle of the eighteenth
century. The men of Teignmouth, who had no wish to be captured and employed as galley slaves,
seeing that they were in a hopeless position, retreated inland. Lord Macaulay thus describes
the position in his History:

   The Beacon on the ridge above Teignmouth was kindled, Hey-Tor and
   Cawsand made answer, and soon all the hill tops of the West were on
   fire.

It was therefore no wonder that Trouville found his landing opposed by thousands of fierce
Devonshire men, who lined the shores and prevented him from landing his troops; the expedition
was a complete failure, and he returned to France.

In those days, when railways and telegraphy were unknown, the whole country could be aroused
very quickly and effectively by those beacon fires. The fuel was always kept ready for lighting
on the Beacon hills, which were chosen so that the fire on one hill could be seen from the
other. On our journey through England we passed many of these beacons, then used for more peaceful
purposes.

In 1815 another ship appeared in Torbay, with only one prisoner on board, but a very important
one. The ship was the British man-of-war the Bellerophon, and the prisoner the great Napoleon
Bonaparte. We had already come to the conclusion that Torquay, with its pretty bay, was the
most delightful place we had visited; and even Napoleon, who must have been acquainted with
the whole of Europe, and who appeared in Torbay under what must have been to him depressing
circumstances, exclaimed when he saw it, "Enfin, voilà un beau pays!" (What a beautiful country
this is!) He arrived on July 24th, five weeks after the Battle of Waterloo, and departed on
August 8th from Plymouth, having been transferred to the Northumberland for the voyage to his
prison home in St. Helena, a South Atlantic island 760 miles from any other land, and where
he died in 1821. During the few days' visit of the Bellerophon at Torbay, thousands upon thousands
of people came by land and water in the hope of seeing the great general who had so nearly
made himself master of the whole of Europe, and although very few of them saw Napoleon, they
all saw the lovely scenery there, and this, it was said, laid the foundation of the fortunes
of the future Torquay.

We had intended leaving Torquay for Totnes by the main road, which passed through Paignton,
but our host informed us that even if we passed through it, we should not see Paignton in all
its glory, as we were twelve years too early for one pudding and thirty-nine years too late
for the next. We had never heard of Paignton puddings before, but it appeared that as far back
as 1294 Paignton had been created a borough or market town, and held its charter by a White-Pot
Pudding, which was to take seven years to make, seven years to bake, and seven years to eat,
and was to be produced once every fifty years. In 1809 the pudding was made of 400 lbs. of
flour, 170 lbs. of suet, 140 lbs. of raisins, and 240 eggs. It was boiled in a brewer's copper,
and was kept constantly boiling from the Saturday morning until the Tuesday following, when
it was placed on a gaily decorated trolley and drawn through the town by eight oxen, followed
by a large and expectant crowd of people. But the pudding did not come up to expectations,
turning out rather stodgy: so in 1859 a much larger pudding was made, but this time it was
baked instead of boiled, and was drawn by twenty-five horses through the streets of the town.
One feature of the procession on that occasion was a number of navvies who happened to be working
near the town and who walked in their clean white slops, or jackets, and of course came in
for a goodly share of the pudding.

One of the notables of Paignton was William Adams, one of the many prisoners in the hands of
the Turks or Saracens in the time when the English Liturgy was compiled. It was said that the
intercession "for all prisoners and captives" applied especially to them, and every Sunday
during the five years he was a prisoner at Algiers, William Adams' name was specially mentioned
after that petition. The story of his escape was one of the most sensational of its time. Adams
and six companions made a boat in sections, and fastened it together in a secluded cove on
the seacoast; but after it was made they found it would only carry five of them, of whom Adams
was of course one. After the most terrible sufferings they at length reached "Majork," or Majorca
Island, the Spaniards being very kind to them, assisting them to reach home, where they arrived
emaciated and worn out. The two men left behind were never heard of again. We had often heard
the name "Bill Adams," and wondered whether this man could have been the original. The county
historian of those days had described him as "a very honest sensible man, who died in the year
of our Lord 1687, and his body, so like to be buried in the sea and to feed fishes, lies buried
in Paignton churchyard, where it feasteth worms."

We could see Paignton, with its ivy-covered Tower, all that was left of the old Palace of the
Bishops of Exeter, but we did not visit it, as we preferred to cross the hills and see some
other places of which we had heard, and also to visit Berry Pomeroy Castle on our way to Totnes.

Behind Torquay we passed along some of the loveliest little lanes we had ever seen. They must
have presented a glorious picture in spring and summer, when the high hedges were "hung with
ferns and banked up with flowers," for even in November they were very beautiful. These by-lanes
had evidently been originally constructed for pedestrian and horse traffic, but they had not
been made on the surface of the land, like those in Dorset and Wilts, and were more like ditches
than roads. We conjectured that they had been sunk to this depth in order that pirates landing
suddenly on the coast could see nothing of the traffic from a distance. But therein consisted
their beauty, for the banks on either side were covered with luxuriant foliage, amongst which
ferns and flowers struggled for existence, and the bushes and trees above in many places formed
a natural and leafy arch over the road below. The surface of the roads was not very good, being
naturally damp, as the drying influences of the wind and sun could scarcely penetrate to such
sheltered positions, and in wet weather the mud had a tendency to accumulate; but we did not
trouble ourselves about this as we walked steadily onwards. The roads were usually fairly straight,
but went up and down hill regardless of gradients, though occasionally they were very crooked,
and at cross-roads, in the absence of finger-posts or any one to direct us, it was easy to
take a wrong turning. Still it was a real pleasure to walk along these beautiful Devonshire lanes.

  But though 'tis so long, it is not very wide,
  For two are the most that together can ride;
  And e'en then 'tis a chance but they sit in a pother.
  And joke and cross and run foul of each other.

Late though it was in the year, there was still some autumn foliage on the trees and bushes
and some few flowers and many ferns in sheltered places; we also had the golden furze or gorse
to cheer us on our way, for an old saying in Devonshire runs--

  When furze is out of bloom
  Then love is out of tune,

which was equivalent to saying that love was never out of tune in Devonshire, for there were
three varieties of furze in that county which bloomed in succession, so that there were always
some blooms of that plant to be found. The variety we saw was that which begins to bloom in
August and remains in full beauty till the end of January.

  Beside the fire with toasted crabs
    We sit, and love is there;
  In merry Spring, with apple flowers
    It flutters in the air.
  At harvest, when we toss the sheaves,
    Then love with them is toss't;
  At fall, when nipp'd and sear the leaves,
    Un-nipp'd is love by frost.
      Golden furze in bloom!
      O golden furze in bloom!
      When the furze is out of flower
      Then love is out of tune.

Presently we arrived at Cockington, a secluded and ancient village, picturesque to a degree,
with cottages built of red cobs and a quaint forge or smithy for the village blacksmith, all,
including the entrance lodge to the squire's park, being roofed or thatched with straw. Pretty
gardens were attached to all of them, and everything looked so trim, clean, and neat that it
was hard to realise that such a pretty and innocent-looking place had ever been the abode of
smugglers or pirates; yet so it was, for hiding-holes existed there which belonged formerly
to what were jocularly known as the early "Free Traders." Near Anstey's Cove, in Torbay, we
had seen a small cave in the rocks known as the "Brandy Hole," near which was the smuggler's
staircase. This was formed of occasional flights of roughly-hewn stone steps, up which in days
gone by the kegs of brandy and gin and the bales of silk had been carried to the top of the
cliffs and thence conveyed to Cockington and other villages in the neighbourhood where the
smugglers' dens existed.

Possibly Jack Rattenbury, the famous smuggler known as "the Rob Roy of the West," escaped to
Cockington when he was nearly caught by the crew of one of the King's ships, for the search
party were close on his heels when he saved himself by his agility in scaling the cliffs. But
Cockington was peaceful enough when we visited it, and in the park, adorned with fine trees,
stood the squire's Hall, or Court, and the ivy-covered church. Cockington was mentioned in
Domesday Book, and in 1361 a fair and a market were granted to Walter de Wodeland, usher to
the Chamber of the Black Prince, who afterwards created him a knight, and it was probably about
that time that the present church was built. The screen and pews and pulpit had formerly belonged
to Tor Mohun church, and the font, with its finely carved cover and the other relics of wood,
all gave us the impression of being extremely old, and as they were in the beginning. The Cary
family were once the owners of the estate, and in the time of the Spanish Armada George Cary,
who was afterwards knighted by Queen Elizabeth, with Sir John Gilbert, at that time the owner
of Tor Abbey, took charge of the four hundred prisoners from the Spanish flagship Rosario while
they were lodged in the grange of Tor Abbey.

From Cockington we walked on to Compton Castle, a fine old fortified house, one of the most
interesting and best preserved remains of a castellated mansion in Devonshire. One small portion
of it was inhabited, and all was covered with ivy, but we could easily trace the remains of
the different apartments. It was formerly the home of the Gilbert family, of whom the best-known
member was Sir Humphrey Gilbert, a celebrated navigator and mathematician of the sixteenth
century, half-brother of Sir Walter Raleigh, and knighted by Queen Elizabeth for his bravery
in Ireland. Sir Humphrey afterwards made voyages of discovery, and added Newfoundland, our
oldest colony, to the British Possessions, and went down with the Squirrel in a storm off the
Azores. When his comrades saw him for the last time before he disappeared from their sight
for ever in the mist and gloom of the evening, he held a Bible in his hand, and said cheerily,
"Never mind, boys! we are as near to Heaven by sea as by land!"

We had a splendid walk across the hills, passing through Marldon, where the church was apparently
the burial-place of the Gilbert family, of which it contained many records, including an effigy
of Otho Gilbert, who was Sheriff of the County and who died in 1476. But the chief object of
interest at Marldon appeared to be a six-barred gate called the Gallows Gate, which stood near
the spot where the three parishes converged: Kingskerswell, Cockington, and Marldon; near this
the culprits from those three places were formerly hanged. We looked for the gate in the direction
pointed out to us, but failed to find it. Some people in the village thought its name of the
Gallows Gate was derived from an incident which occurred there many years ago. A sheep-stealer
had killed a sheep, and was carrying it home slung round his shoulders when he came to this
gate. Finding it fastened, he was climbing over, when in the dark his foot slipped and the
cord got across his neck. The weight of the carcase as it fell backwards, added to his own,
caused him to be choked, so that he was literally hanged upon the gate instead of the gallows
for what was in those days a capital offence.

After passing the Beacon Hill, we had very fine views over land and sea, extending to Dartmoor
and Dartmouth, and with a downward gradient we soon came to Berry Pomeroy, the past and present
owners of which had been associated with many events recorded in the history of England, from
the time of William the Conqueror, who bestowed the manor, along with many others, on one of
his followers named Ralph de Pomeroy. It was he who built the Castle, where the Pomeroys remained
in possession until the year 1547, when it passed into the hands of the Seymour family, afterwards
the Dukes of Somerset, in whose possession it still remained.

   After the Pomeroys disappeared the first owner of the manor and
   castle was Edward Seymour, afterwards the haughty Lord Protector
   Somerset, who first rose in royal favour by the marriage of his
   eldest sister Jane Seymour to Henry VIII, and that monarch appointed
   him an executor under his will and a member of the Council on whom
   the duty devolved of guarding the powers of the Crown during the
   minority of his son and successor Edward VI, who only reigned six
   years, from 1547 to 1553; and Seymour's father, Sir John, had
   accompanied King Henry VIII to his wars in France, and to the Field
   of the Cloth of Gold.

   Henry VIII had great faith in his brother-in-law, and after the
   King's death Seymour quickly gained ascendency over the remaining
   members of the Council, and was nominated Lord Treasurer of England,
   and created Earl of Somerset, Feb. 17, 1567; two days afterwards he
   obtained a grant of the office of Earl Marshal of England for life,
   and on the 12th of March following he procured a patent from the
   young King, who was his nephew, constituting himself the Protector of
   the Realm, an office altogether new to the Constitution and that gave
   him full regal power.

   It was about that time that the English Reformation began, and the
   free circulation of the Bible was permitted. The Latin Mass was
   abolished, and the English Liturgy substituted, and 42 Articles of
   Faith were adopted by the English Protestants. Protector Somerset was
   a Protestant, and always took advice of Archbishop Cranmer, and care
   was taken that the young King was instructed in the Reformed
   Religion. King Henry VIII had arranged in his lifetime that Edward VI
   should marry Mary, the young Queen of Scotland, and Somerset raised
   an army and went to Scotland to secure her person: but after fighting
   a battle he only just managed to win, he found that the proposed
   union was not looked upon favourably in Scotland, and that the young
   Queen had been sent away to France for greater safety.

   Meantime Somerset's brother Thomas Seymour, High Admiral of England,
   had married Catherine Parr, widow of Henry VIII, without the
   knowledge of the Protector; and this, with the fierce opposition of
   the Roman Catholics, and of the Barons, whose taking possession of
   the common lands he had opposed, and the offence given to the
   population of London through demolishing an ancient parish church in
   the Strand there, so that he could build a fine mansion for himself,
   which still bears the name of Somerset House, led to the rapid
   decline of his influence, and after causing his brother to be
   beheaded he himself shared a similar fate.

Berry Pomeroy was a lovely spot, and the foliage was magnificent as we walked up to the castle
and then to the village, while every now and then we came to a peep-hole through the dense
mass of bushes and trees showing a lovely view beyond. The ruins of the castle were covered
with ivy, moss, and creeping plants, while ferns and shrubs grew both inside and out, forming
the most picturesque view of the kind that could be imagined. We were fortunate in securing
the services of an enthusiastic and intelligent guide, who told us many stories of events that
had taken place there, some of them of a sensational character. He showed us the precipice,
then rapidly becoming obscured by bushes and trees, where the two brothers Pomeroy, with their
horses, were dashed to pieces. The castle had been besieged for a long time, and when the two
brothers found they could hold out no longer, rather than submit to the besiegers they sounded
their horns in token of surrender, and, blindfolding their horses, mounted and rode over the
battlements into the depths below! The horses seemed to know their danger, and struggled to
turn back, but they were whipped and spurred on to meet the same dreadful fate as their masters.
One look over the battlements was enough for us, as it was horrible to contemplate, but our
guide seemed to delight in piling on the agony, as most awful deeds had been done in almost
every part of the ruins, and he did not forget to tell us that ghosts haunted the place at night.

In a dismal room, or dungeon, under what was known as St. Margaret's Tower, one sister had
imprisoned another sister for years, because of jealousy, and in another place a mother had
murdered her child. He also told us a story of an old Abbot who had been concerned in some
dreadful crime, and had been punished by being buried alive. Three days were given him in which
to repent, and on each day he had to witness the digging in unconsecrated ground of a portion
of his grave. He groaned horribly, and refused to take any food, and on the third morning was
so weak that he had to be carried to watch the completion of the grave in which he was to be
buried the following day. On the fourth day, when the monks came in to dress him in his burial
garments and placed him on the bier, he seemed to have recovered a little, and with a great
effort he twisted himself and fell off. They lifted him on again, and four lay brothers carried
him to the side of the deep grave. As he was lowered into the tomb a solemn dirge was sung
by the monks, and prayers were offered for mercy on his sinful soul. The earth was being dropped
slowly on him when a faint groan was heard; for a few moments the earth above him seemed convulsed
a little, and then the grave was closed.

The ghost of the blood-stained Fontebrant and that of his assassin were amongst those that
haunted Pomeroy Castle and its lonely surroundings, and cries and groans were occasionally
heard in the village below from the shrieking shade of the guilty Eleanor, who murdered her
uncle. At midnight she was said to fly from the fairies, who followed her with writhing serpents,
their tongues glistening with poisonous venom and their pestiferous breath turning black everything
with which they came in contact, and thus her soul was tortured as a punishment for her horrible
deeds. Amongst the woods glided the pale ghosts of the Abbot Bertrand and the mother with her
murdered child.

What a difference there is in guides, and especially when no "tips" are in sight! You go into
a church, for instance, and are shown round in a general kind of a way and inquiries are answered
briefly. As you leave the building you hand the caretaker a silver coin which he did not expect,
and then, conscience-stricken, he immediately becomes loquacious and asks if you saw an object
that he ought to have shown you, and it generally ends in your turning back and seeing double
the objects of interest you saw before, and possibly those in the graveyard as well. Then there
are others whose hearts are in their work, and who insist upon your seeing all there is to
be seen and hearing the history or legends connected with the place. Such was our guide that
morning; he was most enthusiastic when giving us his stories, but we did not accept his invitation
to come some evening to see the ghosts, as we could not imagine a more lonely and "boggarty"
spot at night than amongst the thick bushes and foliage of Berry Castle, very beautiful though
it looked in the daylight; nor did we walk backwards three times round the trunk of the old
"wishing tree," and in the process wish for something that we might or might not get; but we
rewarded our guide handsomely for his services.

We had a look in the old church, where there were numerous tombs of the Seymour family; but
the screen chiefly attracted our attention. The projection of the rood-loft still remained
on the top, adorned with fan tracery, and there was also the old door which led up to it. The
lower panels had as usual been much damaged, but the carved figures could still be recognised,
and some of the original colouring in gold, vermilion, green, and white remained. The figures
were said to represent St. Matthew with his club, St. Philip with the spear, St. Stephen with
stones in his chasuble, St. Jude with the boat, St. Matthias with the battle-axe, sword, and
dagger, St. Mary Magdalene with the alabastrum, St. Barbara with the tower, St. Gudala with
the lantern, and the four doctors of the Western Church. The ancient pulpit was of the same
period as the screen, as were also the old-fashioned, straight-backed, oak pews.

The vicarage, which was as usual near the church, must have been a very healthy place, for
the Rev. John Prince, author of The Worthies of Devon, published in 1901, who died in 1723,
was vicar there for forty-two years, and was succeeded by the Rev. Joseph Fox, who died in
1781, aged eighty-four, having been vicar for fifty-eight years. He was followed by the Rev.
John Edwards, who was vicar for fifty-three years, and died in 1834 aged eighty-three. This
list was very different from that we had seen at Hungerford, and we wondered whether a parallel
for longevity in three successive vicars existed in all England, for they averaged fifty-one
years' service.

There were some rather large thatched cottages in Berry Pomeroy village, where Seymour, who
was one of the first men of rank and fortune to join the Prince of Orange, met the future King
after he had landed at Brixham on November 5th, 1688. A conference was held in these cottages,
which were ever afterwards known as "Parliament Buildings," that meeting forming William's
first Parliament. Seymour was at that time M.P. for Exeter, and was also acting as Governor
of that city. When William arrived there four days afterwards, with an army of 15,000 men,
he was awarded a very hearty reception, for he was looked upon as more of a deliverer than
a conqueror.

It was only a short distance from Berry Pomeroy to Totnes, our next stage, and we were now
to form our first acquaintance with the lovely valley of the River Dart, which we reached at
the foot of the hill on which that picturesque and quaint old town was situated. Formerly the
river had to be crossed by a rather difficult ford, but that had been done away with in the
time of King John, and replaced by a narrow bridge of eight arches, which in its turn had been
replaced in the time of William and Mary by a wider bridge of three arches with a toll-gate
upon it, where all traffic except pedestrians had to contribute towards the cost of its erection.
A short distance to the right after crossing the bridge was a monument to a former native of
the town, to whom a sorrowful memory was attached; it had been erected by subscription, and
was inscribed:

         IN HONOR OF

       WILLIAM JOHN WILLS

        NATIVE OF TOTNES
  THE FIRST WITH BURKE TO CROSS THE
      AUSTRALIAN CONTINENT

  HE PERISHED IN RETURNING, 28 JUNE
            1861

When the Australian Government offered a reward for an exploration of that Continent from north
to south, Wills, at that time an assistant in the Observatory at Melbourne, volunteered his
services along with Robert O'Hara Burke, an Irish police inspector. Burke was appointed leader
of the expedition, consisting of thirteen persons, which started from Melbourne on August 20th,
1860, and in four months' time reached the River Barco, to the east of Lake Eyre. Here it became
necessary to divide the party: Burke took Wills with him, and two others, leaving the remainder
at Cooper's Creek to look after the stores and to wait there until Burke and his companions
returned.

They reached Flinders River in February of the following year, but they found the country to
be quite a desert, and provisions failed them. They were obliged to return, reaching Cooper's
Creek on April 21st, 1861. They arrived emaciated and exhausted, only to find that the others
had given up all hope of seeing them again, and returned home. Burke and his companions struggled
on for two months, but one by one they succumbed, until only one was left--a man named King.
Fortunately he was found by some friendly natives, who treated him kindly, and was handed over
to the search-party sent out to find the missing men. The bodies of Burke and Wills were also
recovered, and buried with all honours at Melbourne, where a fine monument was erected to their
memory.

Many of the early settlers in Australia were killed by the aborigines or bushmen, and a friend
of ours who emigrated there from our native village many years ago was supposed to have been
murdered by them. He wrote letters to his parents regularly for some years, and in his last
letter told his friends that he was going farther into the bush in search of gold. For years
they waited for further news, which never arrived; and he was never heard of again, to the
great grief of his father and mother and other members of the family. It was a hazardous business
exploring the wilds of Australia in those days, and it was quite possible that it was only
the numerical strength of Burke's party and of the search-party itself that saved them from
a similar fate.

But many people attributed the misfortunes of the expedition to the number who took part in
it, as there was a great prejudice against the number thirteen both at home and abroad. We
had often, indeed, heard it said that if thirteen persons sat down to dinner together, one
of their number would die! Some people thought that the legend had some connection with the
Lord's Supper, the twelve Apostles bringing the number up to thirteen, while others attributed
it to a much earlier period. In Norse mythology, thirteen was considered unlucky, because at
a banquet in Valhalla, the Scandinavian heaven, where twelve had sat down, Loki intruded and
made the number thirteen, and Baldur was killed.

The Italians and even the Turks had strong objections to the number thirteen, and it never
appeared on any of the doors on the streets of Paris, where, to avoid thirteen people sitting
down to dinner, persons named Quatorziennes were invited to make a fourteenth:

  Jamais on ne devrait
  Se mettre a table treize,
  Mais douze c'est parfait.

My brother thought the saying was only a catch, for it would be equally true to say all would
die as one. He was quite prepared to run the risk of being the thirteenth to sit down to dinner,
but that was when he felt very hungry, and even hinted that there might be no necessity for
the others to sit down at all!

But we must return to Totnes and its bridge, and follow the long narrow street immediately
before us named Fore Street until we reach "the Arch," or East Gate. The old-fashioned houses
to the right and left were a great attraction to my brother, who had strong antiquarian predilections,
and when he saw the old church and castle, he began to talk of staying there for the rest of
the day and I had some difficulty in getting him along. Fortunately, close at hand there was
a quaint Elizabethan mansion doing duty as a refreshment house, with all manner of good things
in the windows and the word "Beds" on a window in an upper storey. Here we called for refreshments,
and got some coffee and some good things to eat, with some of the best Devonshire cream we
had yet tasted. After an argument in which I pointed out the danger of jeopardising our twenty-five-mile
average walk by staying there, as it was yet early in the forenoon, we settled matters in this
way; we would leave our luggage in Totnes, walk round the town to the objects of greatest interest,
then walk to Dartmouth and back, and stay the night on our return, thus following to some extent
the example of Brutus, the earliest recorded visitor:

  Here I stand and here I rest,
  And this place shall be called Totnes.

There was no doubt about the antiquity of Totnes, for Geoffrey of Monmouth, the author of the
famous old English Chronicle, a compilation from older authors, in his Historia Britonum, 1147,
began his notes on Totnes not in the time of the Saxons nor even with the Roman Occupation,
but with the visit of Brutus, hundreds of years before the Christian era. Brutus of Troy had
a strange career. His mother died in giving him birth, and he accidentally shot his father
with an arrow when out hunting. Banished from Italy, he took refuge in Greece, where it was
said he married a daughter of the King, afterwards sailing to discover a new country. Arriving
off our shores, he sailed up the River Dart until he could get no farther, and then landed
at the foot of the hill where Totnes now stands. The stone on which he first set foot was ever
afterwards known as Brutus's stone, and was removed for safety near to the centre of the town;
where for ages the mayor or other official gave out all royal proclamations from it, such as
the accessions to the throne--the last before our visit having been that of her most gracious
Majesty Queen Victoria.

The Charter of Totnes was dated 1205, the mayor claiming precedence over the Lord Mayor of
London, for Totnes, if not the oldest, was one of the oldest boroughs in England. It was therefore
not to be wondered at that the Corporation possessed many curios: amongst them were the original
ring to which the bull was fastened when bull-baiting formed one of the pastimes in England;
a very ancient wooden chest; the staves used by the constables in past generations; a curious
arm-chair used by the town clerk; a list of mayors from the year 1377 to the present time;
two original proclamations by Oliver Cromwell; many old placards of important events; an exceptionally
fine fourteenth-century frieze; a water-pipe formed out of the trunk of an elm tree; the old
stocks; and an engraving representing the arrival of William of Orange at Brixham.

There was a church at Totnes in the time of the Conquest, for it was mentioned in a charter
by which "Judhel de Totnais," the Norman Baron to whom the Conqueror gave the borough, granted
the "Ecclesiam Sancte Marie de Toteneo" to the Benedictine Abbey at Angers; but the present
church was built in 1432 by Bishop Lacy, who granted a forty-days' indulgence for all who contributed
to the work. His figure and coat-of-arms were still to be seen on the church tower, which was
120 feet high, with the words in raised stone letters, "I made the Tour." There was also a
figure of St. Loe, the patron Saint of artificers in brass and iron, who was shown in the act
of shoeing a horse. The corporation appeared to have had control of the church, and in 1450
had erected the altar screen, which was perhaps the most striking object there, for after the
restoration, which was in progress at the time of our visit, of nine stone screens in Devon
churches, excepting that in Exeter Cathedral, it claimed to be the most beautiful.

In the church there was also an elaborate brass candelabrum for eighteen lights with this suitable
inscription:

  Thy Word is a Lantern to my Feet
      And a light unto my Path.
      Donum Dei et Deo
            17th May 1701.

The corporation has also some property in the church in the shape of elaborately carved stalls
erected in 1636; also an ancient Bible and Prayer Book handsomely bound for the use of the
mayor, and presented April 12th, 1690, by the Honble. Lady Anne Seymour of Berry Pomeroy Castle,
whose autograph the books contain; and in the Parvise Chamber attached to the church there
were about 300 old books dating from 1518 to 1676, one a copy of Sir Walter Raleigh's History
of the World, published in 1634.

The carved stone pulpit, of the same date as the screen, had at one time been divided into
Gothic panels, on which were shields designed to represent the twelve sons of Israel: Judah
was represented by a lion couchant, Zebulon by a ship under sail, Issachar as a laden ass resting,
and Dan as a serpent coiled with head erect, and so on according to the description given of
each of the sons in the forty-ninth chapter of Genesis.

There were a number of monuments in the church, the principal being that of Christopher Blacall,
who died in 1635. He was represented as kneeling down in the attitude of prayer, while below
were shown his four wives, also kneeling.

The conductor showed us the very fine organ, which before being placed there had been exhibited
at the Great Exhibition in London in 1851; and we also saw the key of the church door, which,
as well as the lock, had been in use for quite four hundred years.

We then paid a hurried visit to the ruins of the old castle, which in the time of Henry VIII
was described by Leland the antiquary as "The Castelle waul and the strong dungeon be maintained;
but the logginges of the Castelle be cleane in ruine"; but about thirty years before our visit
the Duke of Somerset, the representative of the Seymour family, laid out the grounds and made
of them quite a nice garden, with a flight of steps of easy gradient leading to the top of
the old Norman Keep, from which we had a fine view of the country between Dartmoor and the sea.

Totnes was supposed to have been the Roman "Ad Darium," at the end of the Fosse Way, and was
also the famous harbour of the Celts where the great Vortigern was overthrown by Ambrosius.
As the seas were infested with pirates, ports were chosen well up the estuaries of rivers,
often at the limit of the tides; and Totnes, to which point the Dart is still navigated, remained
of importance from Saxon times, through the struggles with the Danes until the arrival of the
Normans; after this it was gradually superseded by Dartmouth.

At Totnes, when we asked the way to Dartmouth, the people jocularly told us that the only direct
way was by boat down the river; but our rules and regulations would not permit of our going
that way, so we decided to keep as near to the river as we could on the outward journey and
find an alternative route on our return. This was a good idea, but we found it very difficult
to carry out in the former case, owing to the streams which the River Dart receives on both
sides on its way towards the sea. Relieved of the weight of our luggage, we set off at a good
speed across fields and through woods, travelling along lanes the banks of which were in places
covered with ferns. In Cheshire we had plenty of bracken, but very few ferns, but here they
flourished in many varieties. A gentleman whom we met rambling along the river bank told us
there were about forty different kinds of ferns and what he called "fern allies" to be found
in the lanes and meadows in Devonshire. He said it was also noted for fungi, in which he appeared
to be more interested than in the ferns, telling us there were six or seven hundred varieties,
some of them being very beautiful both in colour and form; but we never cared very much for
these, as we thought them too much akin to poisonous toadstools. We asked him why the lanes
in Devonshire were so much below the surface of the land, and he said they had been constructed
in that way in very ancient times to hide the passage of cattle and produce belonging to the
British from the sight of their Saxon oppressors. He complained strongly of the destruction
of ferns by visitors from populous places, who thought they would grow in their gardens or
back-yards, and carried the roots away with them to be planted in positions where they were
sure to die. In later years, it was said, young ladies and curates advertised hampers of Devonshire
ferns for sale to eke out their small incomes; and when this proved successful, regular dealers
did the same, and devastated woods and lanes by rooting up the ferns and almost exterminating
some of the rarer kinds; but when the County Councils were formed, this wholesale destruction
was forbidden.

We had a fairly straight course along the river for two or three miles, and on our way called
to see an enormous wych-elm tree in Sharpham Park, the branches of which were said to cover
a quarter of an acre of ground. It was certainly an enormous tree, much the largest we had
seen of that variety, for the stem was about sixteen feet in girth and the leading branches
about eighty feet long and nine feet in circumference. The Hall stood on an eminence overlooking
the river, with great woods surrounding it, and the windings of the river from this point looked
like a number of meres or lakes, while the gardens and woods of Sharpham were second to none
in the County of Devon. Near the woods we passed a small cottage, which seemed to be at the
end of everywhere, and was known locally as the "World's End." The first watery obstruction
we came to was where the River Harbourne entered the River Dart, and here we turned aside along
what was known as the Bow Creek, walking in a go-as-you-please way through lovely wooded and
rocky scenery until we reached a water-mill. We had seen several herons on our way, a rather
scarce bird, and we were told there was a breeding-place for them at Sharpham, together with
a very large rookery. We passed Cornworthy, where there was an old church and a prehistoric
camp, and some ruins of a priory of Augustinian nuns which existed there in the fourteenth
century; but we had no time to explore them, and hastened on to Dittisham, where we regained
the bank of the River Dart. This was another of the places we had arrived at either too late
or too early, for it was famous for its plums, which grew in abundance at both Higher and Lower
Dittisham, the bloom on the trees there forming a lovely sight in spring. A great many plums
known as damsons were grown in Cheshire, and in olden times were allowed to remain on the trees
until the light frosts came in late September or early October, as it was considered that they
had not attained their full flavour until then; but in later times as soon as they were black
they were hurried off to market, for they would crush in packing if left until thoroughly ripe.

Dittisham was also noted for its cockles and shrimps. The river here widened until it assumed
the appearance of a lake about two miles wide, and the steamboat which plied between Totnes
and Dartmouth landed passengers at Dittisham. As it lay about half way between the two places,
it formed a favourite resort for visitors coming either way, and tea and cockles or tea and
shrimps or, at the right time, tea and damsons--might be obtained at almost any of the pleasant
little cottages which bordered the river. These luxuries could be combined with a walk through
lovely scenery or a climb up the Fire Beacon Hill, about 600 feet above sea-level; or rowing-boats
could be had if required, and we were informed that many visitors stayed about there in the season.

Across the river were several notable places: Sandbridge to the left and Greenway to the right.
At Sandbridge was born the famous navigator John Davis, who was the first to explore the Arctic
regions. On June 7th, 1575, he left Dartmouth with two small barques--the Sunshine, 50 tons,
carrying 23 men, and the Moonshine, 35 tons, and 19 men--and after many difficulties reached
a passage between Greenland and North America, which was so narrowed between the ice that it
was named Davis' Straits. He made other voyages to the Arctic regions, and was said to have
discovered Hudson's Straits. Afterwards he sailed several times to the East Indies; but whilst
returning from one of these expeditions was killed on December 27th, 1605, in a fight with
some Malay pirates on the coast of Malacca.

Greenway House, on the other hand, was at one time the residence of
those two remarkable half-brothers Sir Humphrey Gilbert and Sir Walter
Raleigh, and it was there that Sir Walter planted the first potato ever
grown in England, which he had brought from abroad. As he was the first
to introduce tobacco, it was probably at Greenway that his servant
coming in with a jug of beer, and seeing his master as he thought
burning, threw it in his face--"to put his master out," as he afterwards
explained.
  Then, alas! the land wind failed.

         *       *       *       *       *

  He sat upon the deck,
    The Book was in his hand;
  "Do not fear, Heaven is as near,"
    He said, "by water as by land!"

Beyond Dittisham the river turned towards Dartmouth through a very narrow passage, with a dangerous
rock near the centre, now called the Anchor Stone, which was covered at high water. It appeared,
however, to have been used in former times to serve the purpose of the ducking-stool, for the
men of Dartmouth and Dittisham brought scolds there and placed them on the rock at low water
for immersion with the rising tide, whence it became known-as the "Scold's Stone." One hour
on the stone was generally sufficient for a scolding woman, for she could see the approach
of the water that would presently rise well above her waist, and very few chose to remain on
the stone rather than repent, although of course it was open to them to do so.

After negotiating the intricacies of one other small creek, we entered the ancient town of
Dartmouth highly delighted with our lovely tramp along the River Dart.

We were now in a nautical area, and could imagine the excitement that would be caused amongst
the natives when the beacon fires warned them of the approach of the Spanish Armada, for Dartmouth
was then regarded as a creek of Plymouth Harbour.

Dartmouth is one of the most picturesquely situated towns in England, and the two castles,
one on either side of the narrow and deep mouth of the Dart, added to the beauty of the scene
and reminded us of the times when we were continually at war with our neighbours across the
Channel. The castles were only small, but so were the ships that crossed the seas in those
days, and they would no doubt be considered formidable fortresses then. At low tide the Dart
at that point was never less than five yards deep, and in the dark it was an easy matter for
a ship to pass through unobserved. To provide against this contingency, according to a document
in the possession of the Corporation dating from the twenty-first year of the reign of King
Edward IV, a grant of £30 per annum out of the Customs was made to the "Mayor, Bailiffs, and
Burgesses of Dartmouth, who had begonne to make a strong and myghte Toure of lyme and stone
adjoining the Castelle there," and who were also to "fynde a cheyne sufficient in length and
strength to streche and be laide over-thwarte or a travers the mouth of the haven of Dartmouth"
from Dartmouth Castle to Kingswear Castle on the opposite bank to keep out all intruders. This
"myghte cheyne" was raised across the entrance every night so that no ships could get through,
and the groove through which it passed was still to be seen.

Dartmouth Castle stood low down on a point of land on the seashore, and had two towers, the
circular one having been built in the time of Henry VIII. Immediately adjoining it was a very
small church of a much earlier date than the castle, dedicated to St. Petrox, a British saint
of the sixth century. Behind the castle and the church was a hill called Gallants' Bower, formerly
used as a beacon station, the hollow on the summit having been formed to protect the fire from
the wind. This rock partly overhung the water and served to protect both the church and the
castle. Kingswear Castle, on the opposite side of the water, was built in the fourteenth century,
and had only one tower, the space between the two castles being known as the "Narrows." They
were intended to protect the entrance to the magnificent harbour inland; but there were other
defences, as an Italian spy in 1599, soon after the time of the Spanish Armada, reported as
follows:

   Dartmouth is not walled--the mountains are its walls. Deep water is
   everywhere, and at the entrance five yards deep at low water. Bastion
   of earth at entrance with six or eight pieces of artillery; farther
   in is a castle with 24 pieces and 50 men, and then another earth
   bastion with six pieces.

The harbour was at one time large enough to hold the whole British navy, and was considered
very safe, as the entrance could be so easily defended, but its only representative now appeared
to be an enormous three-decker wooden ship, named the Britannia, used as a training-ship for
naval officers. It seemed almost out of place there, and quite dwarfed the smaller boats in
the harbour, one deck rising above another, and all painted black and white. We heard afterwards
that the real Britannia, which carried the Admiral's flag in the Black Sea early in the Crimean
War, had been broken up in 1870, the year before our visit, having done duty at Dartmouth as
a training-ship since 1863. The ship we now saw was in reality the Prince of Wales, also a
three-decker, and the largest and last built of "England's wooden walls," carrying 128 guns.
She had been brought round to Dartmouth in 1869 and rechristened Britannia, forming the fifth
ship of that name in the British navy.

It was in that harbour that the ships were assembled in 1190 during the Crusades, to join Richard
Coeur-de-Lion at Messina. In his absence Dartmouth was stormed by the French, and for two centuries
alternate warlike visits were made to the sea-coasts of England and France.

In 1338 the Dartmouth sailors captured five French ships, and murdered all their crews except
nine men; and in 1347, when the large armament sailed under Edward III to the siege of Calais,
the people of Dartmouth, who in turn had suffered much from the French, contributed the large
number of 31 ships and 757 mariners to the King's Fleet, the largest number from any port,
except Fowey and London.

In 1377 the town was partly burnt by the French, and in 1403 Dartmouth combined with Plymouth,
and their ships ravaged the coasts of France, where, falling in with the French fleet, they
destroyed and captured forty-one of the enemy.

In the following year, 1404, the French attempted to avenge themselves, and landed near Stoke
Fleming, about three miles outside Dartmouth, with a view to attacking the town in the rear;
but owing to the loquacity of one of the men connected with the enterprise the inhabitants
were forewarned and prepared accordingly. Du Chatel, a Breton Knight, was the leader of the
Expedition, and came over, as he said, "to exterminate the vipers"; but when he landed, matters
turned out "otherwise than he had hoped," for the Dartmouth men had dug a deep ditch near the
seacoast, and 600 of them were strongly entrenched behind it, many with their wives, "who fought
like wild cats." They were armed with slings, with which they made such good practice that
scores of the Bretons fell in the ditch, where the men finished them off, and the rest of the
force retreated, leaving 400 dead and 200 prisoners in the hands of the English.

In 1620 the Pilgrim Fathers called at Dartmouth with their ships Speedwell and Mayflower, as
the captain of the Speedwell (who it was afterwards thought did not want to cross the Atlantic)
complained that his ship needed repairs, but on examination she was pronounced seaworthy. The
same difficulty occurred when they reached Plymouth, with the result that the Mayflower sailed
alone from that port, carrying the Fathers to form a new empire of Englishmen in the New World.

We were delighted with the old towns on the south coast--so different from those we had seen
on the west; they seemed to have borrowed some of their quaint semi-foreign architecture from
those across the Channel. The town of Dartmouth was a quaint old place and one of the oldest
boroughs in England. It contained, both in its main street and the narrow passages leading
out of it, many old houses with projecting wooden beams ornamented with grotesque gargoyles
and many other exquisite carvings in a good state of preservation. Like Totnes, the town possessed
a "Butter Walk," built early in the seventeenth century, where houses supported by granite
pillars overhung the pavement. In one house there was a plaster ceiling designed to represent
the Scriptural genealogy of our Saviour from Jesse to the Virgin Mary, and at each of the four
corners appeared one of the Apostles: St. Matthew with the bull or ox, St. Luke with the eagle,
St. Mark with the lion, and St. John with the attendant angel---probably a copy of the Jesse
stained-glass windows, in which Jesse is represented in a recumbent posture with a vine or
tree rising out of his loins as described by Isaiah, xi. I: "And there shall come forth a Rod
out of the stem of Jesse, and a Branch shall grow out of his roots."

The churches in Dartmouth were well worth a visit. St. Saviour's, built in 1372, contained
an elaborately carved oak screen, one of the finest in the county and of singular beauty, erected
in the fifteenth century. It was in perfect condition, and spread above the chancel in the
form of a canopy supporting the rood-loft, with beautiful carving and painted figures in panels.
The pulpit was of stone, richly carved and gilt, and showed the Tudor rose and portcullis,
with the thistle, harp, and fleur-de-lys; there were also some seat-ends nicely carved and
some old chandeliers dated 1701--the same date as the fine one we saw in the church at Totnes.

The chancel contained the tomb, dated 1394, of John Hawley, who died in 1408, and his two wives--Joan
who died in 1394, and Alice who died in 1403. Hawley was a rich merchant, and in the war against
France equipped at his own expense a fleet, which seemed to have been of good service to him,
for in 1389 he captured thirty-four vessels from Rochelle, laden with 1,500 tons of wine. John
Stow, a famous antiquary of the sixteenth century, mentioned this man in his Annals as "the
merchant of Dartmouth who in 1390 waged war with the navies and ships of the ports of our own
shores," and "took 34 shippes laden with wyne to the sum of fifteen hundred tunnes," so we
considered Hawley must have been a pirate of the first degree.

There was a brass in the chancel with this inscription, the moral of which we had seen expressed
in so many different forms elsewhere:

  Behold thyselfe by me,
    I was as thou art now:
  And them in time shalt be
    Even dust as I am now;
  So doth this figure point to thee
  The form and state of each degree.

The gallery at the west end was built in 1631, and there was a door in the church of the same
date, but the ironwork on this was said to be two hundred years older, having probably been
transferred to it from a former door. It was one of the most curious we had ever seen. Two
animals which we took to be lions were impaled on a tree with roots, branches, and leaves.
One lion was across the tree just under the top branches, and the other lion was across it
at the bottom just above the roots, both standing with their heads to the right and facing
the beholder; but the trunk of the tree seemed to have grown through each of their bodies,
giving the impression that they were impaled upon it. The date of the woodwork (1631) was carved
underneath the body of the lion at the top, the first figure in the date appearing to the left
and the remaining three to the right, while the leaves on the tree resembled those of the oak.
Whether the lions were connected in any way with those on the borough coat-of-arms we did not
know, but this bore a lion on either side of it, the hinder portion of their bodies hanging
over each side of an ancient boat and their faces being turned towards the spectator, while
a crowned king, evidently meant for Richard Coeur-de-Lion, was sitting between them--the lions
being intended to represent the Lions of Judah. The King was crowned, but above him, suspended
over the boat, was a much larger crown, and underneath that and in the air to the left, but
slightly above the King's crown, was the Turkish Crescent, while in a similar position to the
right was represented the Star of Jerusalem.

The original parish church of Dartmouth, on the outskirts of the town, contained two rather
remarkable epitaphs:

  Here lyeth buried the Bodie of Robert Holland who
  Departed this life 1611 beinge of
  The age of 54 years 5 months and odd dayes.
  Here lies a breathless body and doth showe
  What man is, when God claims, what man doth owe.
  His soule a guest his body a trouble
  His tyme an instant, and his breath a bubble.
                 Come Lord Jesus, come quickly.

The other was worded:

  William Koope, of Little
  Dartmouth dyed in Bilbao
  January the 30th, 1666, in the 6
  yeare of his abode there beinge
  embalmed and put into a Leaden
  Coffin, was, after Tenn Weekes
  Tossinge on the seas, here
  Below interred May ye 23
  AO. DOM. 1667 Ætates svæ 35.

Thomas Newcomen, born at Dartmouth in 1663, was the first man to employ steam power in Cornish
mines, and the real inventor of the steam engine. The first steamboat on the River Dart was
named after him.

In the time of the Civil War Dartmouth was taken by the Royalists, who held it for a time,
but later it was attacked from both land and sea by Fairfax, and surrendered to the Parliament.
Immediately afterwards a rather strange event happened, as a French ship conveying despatches
for the Royalists from the Queen, Lord Goring, and others, who were in France, entered the
port, the captain being ignorant of the change that had just taken place. On hearing that the
Parliament was in possession, he threw his despatches overboard. These were afterwards recovered
and sent up to Parliament, where they were found to be of a very important nature--in fact,
the discoveries made in them were said to have had some effect in deciding the fate of King
Charles himself.

We had now to face our return journey to Totnes, so we fortified ourselves with a substantial
tea, and then began our dark and lonely walk of twelve miles by the alternative route, as it
was useless to attempt to find the other on a dark night. We had, however, become quite accustomed
to this kind of thing, and though we went astray on one occasion and found ourselves in a deep
and narrow road, we soon regained the hard road we had left. The thought of the lovely country
we had seen that day, and the pretty places we had visited, cheered us on our way, and my brother
said he should visit that neighbourhood again before long. I did not treat his remark seriously
at the time, thinking it equivalent to the remarks in hotel books where visitors express their
unfulfilled intention of coming again. But when on May 29th, 1873, a lovely day of sunshine,
my brother departed with one of the handsomest girls in the village for what the newspapers
described as "London and the South," and when we received a letter informing us that they were
both very well and very happy, and amusing themselves by watching the salmon shooting up the
deep weir on the River Dart, and sailing in a small boat with a sail that could easily be worked
with one hand, and had sailed along the river to Dartmouth and back, I was not surprised when
I found that the postmark on the envelope was TOTNES.

In his letter to me on that occasion, he said he had received from his mother his "marching
orders" for his next long journey; and although her letter is now old and the ink faded, the
"orders" are still firmly fixed where that good old writer intended them to be, and, as my
brother said, they deserved to be written in letters of gold:

   =My earnest desire is that you may both be happy, and that whatever
   you do may be to the glory of God and the good of your
   fellow-creatures, and that at the last you may be found with your
   lamps burning and your lights shining, waiting for the coming of the
   Lord!=

(Distance walked thirty-one-miles.)

Tuesday, November 14th.

We had made good progress yesterday in consequence of not having to carry any luggage, but
we had now to carry our belongings again as usual.

Totnes, we learned, was a walled town in the time of the Domesday Survey, and was again walled
in 1265 by permission of Henry III. Of the four gates then existing, only two now remained,
the North and the East; they were represented by archways, the gates themselves having long
since disappeared. We passed under the Eastgate Archway, which supported a room in which were
two carved heads said to represent King Henry VIII and his unfortunate wife Anne Boleyn; and
with a parting glance at the ancient Butter Cross and piazzas, which reminded us somewhat of
the ancient Rows in Chester, we passed out into the country wondering what our day's walk would
have in store for us.

We had thought of crossing over the centre of Dartmoor, but found it a much larger and wilder
place than we had imagined, embracing over 100,000 acres of land and covering an area of about
twenty-five square miles, while in the centre were many swamps or bogs, very dangerous, especially
in wet or stormy weather. There were also many hills, or "tors," rising to a considerable elevation
above sea-level, and ranging from Haytor Rocks at 1,491 feet to High Willheys at 2,039 feet.
Mists and clouds from the Atlantic were apt to sweep suddenly over the Moor and trap unwary
travellers, so that many persons had perished in the bogs from time to time; and the clouds
striking against the rocky tors caused the rainfall to be so heavy that the Moor had been named
the "Land of Streams." One of the bogs near the centre of the Moor was never dry, and formed
a kind of shallow lake out of which rose five rivers, the Ockment or Okement, the Taw, the
Tavy, the Teign, and the Dart, the last named and most important having given its name to the
Moor. Besides these, the Avon, Erme, Meavy, Plym, and Yealm, with many tributary brooks, all
rise in Dartmoor.

Devonshire was peculiar in having no forests except that of Dartmoor, which was devoid of trees
except a small portion called Wistman's Wood in the centre, but the trees in this looked so
old and stunted as to make people suppose they had existed there since the time of the Conquest,
while others thought they had originally formed one of the sacred groves connected with Druidical
worship, since legend stated that living men had been nailed to them and their bodies left
there to decay. The trees were stunted and only about double the height of an average-sized
man, but with wide arms spread out at the top twisted and twined in all directions. Their roots
were amongst great boulders, where adders' nests abounded, so that it behoved visitors to be
doubly careful in very hot weather. We could imagine the feelings of a solitary traveller in
days gone by, with perhaps no living being but himself for miles, crossing this dismal moor
and coming suddenly on the remains of one of these crucified sacrificial victims.

Not far from Wistman's Wood was Crockern Tor, on the summit of which, according to the terms
of an ancient charter, the Parliament dealing with the Stannary Courts was bound to assemble,
the tables and seats of the members being hewn out of the solid rock or cut from great blocks
of stone. The meetings at this particular spot of the Devon and Cornwall Stannary men continued
until the middle of the eighteenth century. After the jury had been sworn and other preliminaries
arranged, the Parliament adjourned to the Stannary towns, where its courts of record were opened
for the administration of Justice among the "tinners," the word Stannary being derived from
the Latin "Stannum," meaning tin.

Some of the tors still retained their Druidical names, such as Bel-Tor, Ham-Tor, Mis-Tor; and
there were many remains of altars, logans, and cromlechs scattered over the moors, proving
their great antiquity and pointing to the time when the priests of the Britons burned incense
and offered human victims as sacrifices to Bel and Baal and to the Heavenly bodies.

There was another contingency to be considered in crossing Dartmoor in the direction we had
intended--especially in the case of a solitary traveller journeying haphazard--and that was
the huge prison built by the Government in the year 1808 on the opposite fringe of the Moor
to accommodate prisoners taken during the French wars, and since converted into an ordinary
convict settlement. It was seldom that a convict escaped, for it was very difficult to cross
the Moor, and the prison dress was so well known all over the district; but such cases had
occurred, and one of these runaways, to whom a little money and a change of raiment would have
been acceptable, might have been a source of inconvenience, if not of danger, to any unprotected
traveller, whom he could have compelled to change clothing.

We therefore decided to go round the Moor instead of over it, and visit the town of Plymouth,
which otherwise we should not have seen.

The whole of Dartmoor was given by Edward III to his son the Black Prince, when he gave him
the title of Duke of Cornwall after his victorious return from France, and it still belonged
to the Duchy of Cornwall, and was the property of the Crown; but all the Moor was open and
free to visitors, who could follow their own route in crossing it, though in places it was
gradually being brought into cultivation, especially in the neighbourhood of the many valleys
which in the course of ages had been formed by the rivers on their passage towards the sea.
As our road for some miles passed along the fringe of the great Moor, and as the streams crossed
it in a transverse direction, on our way to Plymouth we passed over six rivers, besides several
considerable brooks, after leaving the River Dart at Totnes. These rivers were named the Harbourne,
Avon, Lud, Erme, Yealm, and Plym, all flowing from Dartmoor; and although there was such a
heavy rainfall on the uplands, it was said that no one born and bred thereon ever died of pulmonary
consumption. The beauty of Dartmoor lay chiefly along its fringes, where ancient villages stood
securely sheltered along the banks of these streams; but in their higher reaches were the remains
of "hut circles" and prehistoric antiquities of the earliest settlers, and relics of Neolithic
man were supposed to be more numerous than elsewhere in England.

There was no doubt in our minds that the earliest settlers were those who landed on the south
coast, and in occupying the country they naturally chose positions where a good supply of water
was available, both for themselves and their cattle. The greater the number of running streams,
the greater would be the number of the settlers. Some of the wildest districts in these southern
countries, where solitude now prevailed, bore evidence of having, at one time, been thickly
populated.

We did not attempt to investigate any of these pretty valleys, as we were anxious to reach
Plymouth early in order to explore that town, so the only divergence we made from the beaten
track was when we came to Ivybridge, on the River Erme. The ivy of course flourished everywhere,
but it was particularly prolific in some parts of Devon, and here it had not only covered the
bridge, over which we crossed, but seemed inclined to invade the town, to which it had given
its name. The townspeople had not then objected to its intrusion, perhaps because, being always
green, it was considered to be an emblem of everlasting life--or was it because in Roman mythology
it was sacred to Bacchus, the God of Wine? In Egyptian mythology the ivy was sacred to Osiris,
the Judge of the Dead and potentate of the kingdom of ghosts; but in our minds it was associated
with our old friend Charles Dickens, who had died in the previous year, and whom we had once
heard reading selections from his own writings in his own inimitable way.

It is remarkable that the ivy never clings to a poisonous tree, but the trees to which it so
"closely twineth and tightly clings" it very often kills, even "its friend the huge oak tree."

Near the bridge we stayed at a refreshment house to replenish the inner man, and the people
there persuaded us to ramble along the track of the River Erme to a spot which "every visitor
went to see"; so leaving our luggage, we went as directed. We followed the footpath under the
trees that lined the banks of the river, which rushed down from the moor above as if in a great
hurry to meet us, and the miniature waterfalls formed in dashing over the rocks and boulders
that impeded its progress looked very pretty. Occasionally it paused a little in its progress
to form small pools in which were mirrored the luxuriant growth of moss and ferns sheltering
beneath the branches of the trees; but it was soon away again to form similar pretty pictures
on its way down the valley. We were pleased indeed that we had not missed this charming bit
of scenery.

Emerging from the dell, we returned by a different route, and saw in the distance the village
of Harford, where in the church a brass had been placed to the Prideaux family by a former
Bishop of Worcester. This bishop was a native of that village, and was in a humble position
when he applied for the post of parish clerk of a neighbouring village, where his application
was declined. He afterwards went to work at Oxford, and while he was there made the acquaintance
of a gentleman who recognised his great talents, and obtained admission for him to one of the
colleges. He rose from one position to another until he became Bishop of Worcester, and in
after life often remarked that if he had been appointed parish clerk he would never have become
a bishop.

We recovered our luggage and walked quickly to Plymouth, where we arrived in good time, after
an easy day's walk. We had decided to stop there for the night and, after securing suitable
apartments, went out into the town. The sight of so many people moving backwards and forwards
had quite a bewildering effect upon us after walking through moors and rather sleepy towns
for such a long period; but after being amongst the crowds for a time, we soon became accustomed
to our altered surroundings. As a matter of course, our first visit was to the Plymouth Hoe,
and our first thoughts were of the great Spanish Armada.

The position of England as the leading Protestant country, with the fact of the refusal of
Queen Elizabeth when the King of Spain proposed marriage, made war between the two countries
almost certain. Drake had also provoked hostilities, for he had sailed to the West Indies in
1587, and after defeating the Spaniards there had entered the Bay of Cadiz with thirty ships
and destroyed 10,000 tons of shipping--an achievement which he described as "singeing the whiskers
of the King of Spain." In consequence of this Philip, King of Spain, declared war on Elizabeth,
Queen of England, and raised a great army of ships to overwhelm the English.

It was on Friday, July 19, 1588, that Captain Thomas Fleming, in charge of the pinnace Golden
Hind, ran into Plymouth Sound with the news that the Spanish Armada was off the Lizard. The
English captains were playing bowls on Plymouth Hoe when Captain Fleming arrived in hot haste
to inform them that when his ship was off the French coast they had seen the Spanish fleet
approaching in the distance, and had put on all sail to bring the news. This was the more startling
because the English still believed it to be refitting in its own ports and unlikely to come
out that year. Great excitement prevailed among the captains; but Drake, who knew all that
could be known of the Spanish ships, and their way of fighting, had no fear of the enemy, and
looked upon them with contempt, coolly remarking that they had plenty of time to finish the
game and thrash the Spaniards afterwards.

The Armada consisted of 131 large ships accompanied by galleys armed with heavy guns, and many
smaller vessels, carrying 27,345 men, of whom 8,050 were seamen and 19,295 soldiers. The twelve
largest ships were named after the twelve Apostles, and a hundred priests were distributed
through the fleet, for King Philip was a very pious man, and the Armada had been blessed by
the Pope. They were under the command of the Duke of Medina Sidonia, and the Spaniards, who
were proverbially cruel, were so sure of victory that they had brought with them many strange
instruments of torture, some of which we had seen in the Tower of London on our visit there
the previous year.

The Lord High Admiral of England was Lord Charles Howard, a grandson of the Duke of Norfolk
and a cousin to Queen Elizabeth, besides being a leader of the Court circle. He had, however,
been trained as a sailor, and the advice and assistance of such brave and experienced sailors
as Drake, Hawkins, and Frobisher were sufficient to carry him through any crisis.

Drake had inspired his people so that none had any dread of the Spaniards or of their big ships,
which were constructed for fighting at close quarters only; while Drake pinned his faith on
light ships, easily managed and capable of quick manoeuvring, but armed with big cannon, so
that he could pound away at a safe distance. Compared with the small English ships, the big
ships of the Spaniards, with their huge superstructures, looked like castles floating on the
sea, and the ocean seemed to groan beneath its heavy burden. But how astonished the English
must have been, both at the vast number and size of the ships composing the Armada, proudly
floating up the Channel in a formation resembling an arc or segment of a circle extending nearly
seven miles.

When the battle commenced, Lord Howard had only got together a fleet of about a hundred ships,
but it soon became evident that the light and well-handled ships of the English, with their
more rapid sailing and clever manoeuvring, were more than a match for the much larger ships
of the Spaniards. Sir Francis Drake followed the Armada closely during the night, and came
up with a large galleon commanded by Don Pedro de Valdez that had been damaged in the fight,
and this he captured with all on board. The weather now began to grow stormy, and the strong
gale which sprang up during the night caused some of the Spanish ships to foul each other,
and the English captured several of them the next day. The wind now began to blow in all directions,
and some of the Spanish ships becoming unmanageable, their formation was broken, so that there
was no fixed order of battle. Meantime the shots from the English, whose boats were lower in
the water, had played havoc with the lofty hulls of the Spanish ships, whose shot often passed
over the English and damaged their own vessels.

The following day Howard was unable, for want of ammunition, to carry on the fight, so he took
the opportunity to divide his fleet into four parts: the first he commanded himself, in the
Ark Royal; the second he placed under Sir Francis Drake in the Revenge; the third under Sir
John Hawkins in the Victory; and the fourth under Captain Frobisher in the Triumph.

When they came opposite the Isle of Wight the storm ceased and there was a calm; but Sir John
Hawkins contrived to get his ship the Victory alongside a large Portuguese galleon, the Santa
Aña, and a single combat ensued. Both fleets watched the progress of the fight, the Spaniards
being quite certain of their comrades' victory, while the English placed their confidence in
the bravery of their champion. It was a stiff fight, in which many were killed and wounded,
but at last the English were seen swarming like ants up the sides of their opponents' great
ship, and in a few moments her brave captain was seen handing his sword to Sir John Hawkins.
The flag of Spain on the mast of the Santa Aña descended, and the white flag and red cross
of St. George soon floated in its place. Then arose a mighty cheer, and the triumphant hurrahs
of the English proclaimed the victory to the anxious watchers on shore. But three huge Spanish
galleons were rowed to the scene to recover the Portuguese ship, and Howard towed the Ark Royal
and the Golden Lion to fight them. It was a desperately unequal fight, and the boats were for
a time hidden from view by the smoke, but in the end the cheers of the English announced that
the galleons had been driven off and the Santa Aña lost to Spain.

The Armada continued its progress towards the Straits of Dover, with the English hanging on,
and anchored off Calais; but by this time the English fleet had been reinforced by many ships
raised by private gentlemen and others, which brought the number to about 140. Howard now decided
to draw the Spanish fleet from its anchorage, and Drake, turning eight of his oldest ships
into fire-ships, distributed them in the night amongst the enemy, ordering the crews to set
them on fire and then return in their small boats. The ships were piled up with inflammable
material, with their guns loaded, and when these exploded, the Spaniards were so terrified
that they unfurled their sails, cut their cables, and so lost their anchors. They fled in confusion,
many being seriously damaged in collision, but only to encounter the English ships Revenge,
Victory, Mary Rose, and Dreadnought, which immediately attacked. Some of the Spanish vessels
were captured and some were lost on the shores of France and Holland; but the main body, much
battered and with their crews badly out of spirits, sailed on into the North Sea. Howard was
close up to them east of the Firth of Forth, but shortage of water and provisions, as well
as of munitions, kept him from attacking, and with bad weather threatening he made for the
Channel ports, and on August 7th, 1588, the Lord High Admiral returned to England with his
victorious fleet.

The remaining ships of the Armada encountered furious storms off the coast of Ireland, where
ten were sunk; and it was not until the end of September that the battered remnants of the
once great fleet reached the coast of Spain.

Queen Elizabeth went in state to St. Paul's Cathedral to offer up thanks to the Almighty for
the safety of her Kingdom and herself, and caused a medal to be struck bearing on it a fleet
scattered by a tempest and the words:

   He blew with His winds and they were scattered.

Plymouth Hoe is an elevation between that town and the sea, and its history dates back to legendary
ages, when Brutus and Corineus came to Albion with their Trojan warriors, and found the land
inhabited by great giants, who terrified their men with their enormous size and horrid noises.
Still they were enabled to drive them away by hurling darts and spears into their bodies. The
leader of the giant race of Albion was Gogmagog, who was the biggest of them all, but they
wounded him badly in the leg, as the story goes, and dragged him to Plymouth Hoe, where they
treated him kindly and healed his wounds. But the question arose who should be king, and it
was decided to settle the matter by a wrestling match, the winner to be king. The giants selected
Gogmagog as their champion and the Trojans chose Corineus, brute strength and size on the one
hand being matched by trained skill on the other. On the day fixed for the combat the giants
lined one side of the Hoe and the Trojans the other. At length Corineus succeeded in forcing
Gogmagog to the ground. He fell on his back, the earth shaking with his weight and the air
echoing with the noise of his mighty groan as the breath was forced from his body. Then, after
breathing a minute, Corineus rushed upon his fallen foe, dragged him with a great effort to
the edge of the cliff, and pushed him over. The giant fell on the rocks below, and his body
was broken in pieces.

Michael Drayton, whose birthplace we had passed in the Midlands, wrote in his Polyolbion that
there was a deadly combat between two giants "upon that lofty place the Hoe," which took place
after the arrival of the Trojans under Brutus of Troy, and that the figures of the two wrestlers,
one bigger than the other, with clubs in their hands, were cut out in the turf on Plymouth
Hoe, being renewed as time went on. They vanished when the citadel was built by King Charles
II, though in the digging of the foundations the great jaws and teeth of Gogmagog were found.

It was supposed that the last of the giants were named Gog and Magog, and were brought to London
and chained in the palace of Bruté, which stood on the site of the Guildhall there; their effigies
were standing in the Guildhall in the reign of Henry V, but were destroyed in the Great Fire
of London. The present Gog and Magog in the Guildhall, 14 feet high, were carved by Richard
Saunders in 1708, and are known as the "City Giants."

We had often heard and read about Brutus, one of those mysterious men whose history we could
not fathom, for as far north as York we read in a book there that "Brutus settled in this country
when the Prophet Eli governed Israel and the Ark was taken from the Philistines, about 1140
B.C., or a century and a half later than when David was singing Psalms in Jerusalem"; then
the writer went on to say that a direct descendant of Brutus, King Ebrancus, anxious to find
occupation for his twenty sons and thirty daughters, built two cities, one of which was York;
so possibly the other city might have been London.

Plymouth Hoe in the time of Drake was a piece of hilly common land with a gallows standing
at one corner, and nearer the sea a water tower and a beacon to signal the approach of enemies.
But it was also a place of recreation, and used for drilling soldiers and sailors. There were
archery butts, and there must also have been a bowling green, on which the captains of the
fleet were playing bowls when the news reached them of the approach of the Spanish Armada.
Amongst the English captains were one from Cheshire, George de Beeston, of Beeston, and a near
relative of his, Roger Townshend. Both had charge of leading ships, and were knighted on board
the Ark by Lord Howard for their services.

When we visited Plymouth Hoe we found it laid out with broad walks and large plots of grass,
where sailors and soldiers were much in evidence. In later years the greater portion of the
old Eddystone Lighthouse was re-erected there, from the cage on the top of which was a very
fine view over Plymouth Sound, one of the most beautiful in England. Besides the town and the
famous Hoe there could be seen, seawards, Drake's or St. Nicholas' Island, the famous Breakwater,
and the still more famous Eddystone Lighthouse, while on the Cornish side were the beautiful
woods of Mount Edgcumbe reaching down to the water's edge. Then there was the estuary of the
River Tamar, called the Hamoaze, with the huge railway bridge crossing it to Saltash, the frame
of the general picture being formed by the hills which surrounded Plymouth, including those
of Dartmoor in the background.

  O the fair Town of Plymouth is by the sea-side,
  The Sound is so blue and so still and so wide,
  Encircled with hills, and with forests all green,
  As a crown of fresh leaves on the head of a queen.
  O dear Plymouth town, and O blue Plymouth Sound!
  O where is your equal on earth to be found?

Eddystone Lighthouse, the top of which could just be seen from the Hoe, stood on a group of
rocks nine miles from the Cornish Coast and fourteen miles from Plymouth. These rocks were
covered at high water by the sea, and were so dangerous to ships moving in and out of Plymouth
or along the coast, that a lighthouse of wood was built on them in the year 1700, which was
washed away by a great storm three years afterwards, when the lighthouse people perished as
well as the unfortunate architect, Winstanley, who happened to be there on a visit at the time.
In 1709 a second and a stronger wooden lighthouse was built by Rudyard, but the progress of
the work was delayed owing to the workmen being carried on to France by a French ship and lodged
in a prison there. King Louis XIV, when he heard of this, chivalrously ordered the Englishmen
to be liberated and their captors to be put in the prison in their places, remarking that "though
he was at war with England, he was not at war with mankind." So the lighthouse was completed,
and remained until 1755, when it was destroyed by fire. It was the work of years to construct
and build a lighthouse on a rock in the midst of the stormy seas, but a third was built by
Smeaton in 1759, this time made of granite and Portland stone, and modelled after the shape
of the trunk of an old oak tree. The stones had been prepared on land, and were sent to the
rock as required for the various positions, and so the lighthouse was raised in about four months.

This one was strongly built, and braved the storms for more than a hundred years, and was still
in position when we visited Plymouth; but a portion of the rock on which it was built was causing
some anxiety, as it showed signs of giving way. A fourth lighthouse was therefore prepared
during the years 1879-82, being built wholly of granite, the old lighthouse doing duty meanwhile.
This was designed and carried out by Sir James Douglas, at a cost of about £80,000. It was
a substantial structure, and built on a different foundation 133 feet high, being 50 feet taller
than its predecessor, and containing a number of rooms. It had two 2-ton bells at the top to
sound in foggy weather, and the flash-lights could be seen from a distance of many miles.

The greater portion of the old lighthouse built by Smeaton was carefully taken down and removed
to Plymouth, where it was re-erected on the Hoe as a lasting memorial to the man whose wonderful
genius had conferred such a benefit on the sailors of all nations--for it was impossible to
calculate how many lives had been saved during the 120 years his lighthouse had been protecting
the ships of all nations from the dangerous reef on which it stood. The old lighthouse now
forms a conspicuous object on the Hoe, and contains some interesting relics, and in the lantern
are the candlesticks in which the lights were placed that guided the mariners across the stormy
ocean in past ages. Over the lantern are the words "24 August 1759" and "Laus Deo" (Praise
to God), for the goodness of the Almighty was always acknowledged in those days both in construction
of great works and otherwise, and another inscription also appears which seems very appropriate:

   Except the Lord build the house, they labour in vain that build it.

Plymouth at first sight had the appearance of a new town, with so many new buildings to attract
the eye of a stranger. Elihu Burritt, however, when he, like ourselves, was journeying to Land's
End, described it as "the Mother Plymouth sitting by the Sea." The new buildings have replaced
or swamped the older erections; but a market has existed there since 1253, and members have
been returned to Parliament since 1292, while its list of mayors is continuous from the year
1439. It was to Plymouth that the Black Prince returned with his fleet after his great victories
in France in the reign of Edward III.

In the sixteenth and seventeenth centuries Plymouth was the port from which expeditions were
sent out to explore and form colonies in hitherto unknown places abroad, and in these some
of the most daring sailors the world has ever known took part.

Sir Martin Frobisher, the first navigator to attempt to find the north-west passage to India,
and from whom comes the name Frobisher's Strait, to the south of Baffin Land, was knighted,
along with Townshend and Beeston, for his services in the defeat of the Spanish Armada.

Sir Francis Drake, the great Admiral of Queen Elizabeth's time, made many adventurous voyages,
partly for discovery and partly for plunder, and was the first Englishman to sail round the
world. He brought news of the existence of gold in some places where he had been, and when
he returned his well-filled ship stimulated others to emulate the Spaniards in that direction.

Sir Walter Raleigh, who was described as a scholar, courtier, soldier, sailor, and statesman,
discovered Virginia in 1584. He was in great favour at Court, but he quarrelled with Queen
Elizabeth, who had granted him a Patent for the discovery and settlement of unknown countries
in the West. When James I ascended the throne he was suspected of being a conspirator and was
sentenced to death, but the sentence was altered to imprisonment in the Tower of London, where
during his twelve years' confinement he wrote his History of the World. In 1615 James set him
at liberty, and put him at the head of an expedition to Guinea to find gold, but, being unsuccessful,
on his return he was beheaded in Old Palace Yard in 1618--a sad ending to a great career. It
was at Virginia that he discovered tobacco, and possibly the potato, for he introduced both
these plants into England; and "Virginia Leaf" tobacco is still the finest produced in America.
Sir Walter explored the place when it was named Pamlico Sound, but it was afterwards named
"Virginia" by Queen Elizabeth herself, and to Sir Walter Raleigh's efforts to colonise this
and other places we owe many of our possessions to-day. In the struggle for independence Virginia
took the lead, and the first Representative Assembly in America was held there, while in the
war between the North and South it was the scene of the last battle and the final surrender.

Captain James Cook, whose book Voyages round the World is now a classic, made many discoveries
for Great Britain, including that of the Sandwich Islands; and he sailed from Plymouth on two
occasions, 1768 and 1772. He made three voyages round the world, but on the third was murdered
by natives at Hawaii. He discovered Botany Bay in New South Wales in 1770, which was afterwards
made a penal colony, whither early in the year 1787 eleven ships sailed from Plymouth, with
800 criminals, over 200 officials, and many free settlers.

But the most important departure from the port was in 1620, when the Mayflower sailed for America
with the "Pilgrim Fathers" on board. She was only a little barque of 180 tons, and was sadly
tossed about by the big waves in the Atlantic. But after enduring many hardships, the emigrants
landed on the barren shores of Massachusetts Bay, and named the spot where they landed "New
Plymouth," that being no doubt what Elihu Burritt had in his mind when he described Plymouth
as "the Mother Plymouth sitting by the Sea," for so many emigrants had gone from there to America
and other places that there were now quite forty places named Plymouth in different parts of
the world. The place whence the "Fathers" left the port on their perilous journey was afterwards
marked with a stone. This we went to see, but we were driven off the Hoe by a heavy shower of rain.

Plymouth was also the last port of call in Europe of the ship Northumberland bound for St.
Helena, with Napoleon Bonaparte on board; and we thought it a strange incident of travel that
the list of distinguished visitors here in 1871 should have included (in addition to ourselves
of course!) the names of the unfortunate Emperor Napoleon III, and his still more unfortunate
son, who had been there about a fortnight before we arrived. During that year the French agreed
to pay the great indemnity which the Germans demanded, and which it was said laid the foundation
of the prosperity of the German Empire.

(Distance walked twenty-three and a half miles.)

Wednesday, November 15th.

We left our hotel at daylight this morning, having made special arrangements last night for
a good breakfast to be served in time for an early start, for we had a heavy day's walk, before
us. We were now in sight of Cornwall, the last county we should have to cross before reaching
Land's End. We had already traversed thirteen counties in Scotland and fourteen in England
since leaving John O' Groat's. But an arm of the sea named the Hamoaze separated us from Cornwall,
and as our rules prevented us from crossing it either by boat or train, the question arose
how we were to get across the water, which was one of the greatest naval anchorages in the
world, and near the great dockyards in which the Government employed some thousands of men.
We had come that way in the hope of seeing some of the big warships near Devonport, and at
length we came to the great railway bridge at Saltash. The thought occurred to us that we might
reach the Cornish coast by walking over the bridge to the other side. We had walked across
a railway bridge on one occasion in Scotland to enable us to reach Abbotsford, the former residence
of the great Sir Walter Scott, so why not adopt a similar plan here? We were some time before
we could find a place where we could scale the embankment, but ultimately we got on the railway
and walked to the entrance of the bridge; but when we reached the path at the side of the bridge
it looked such a huge affair, and such a long way across the water, that we decided not to
venture without asking some advice. We waited until we saw coming along the railway track a
workman, to whom we confided our intention. He strongly advised us not to make the attempt,
since we should run great bodily risk, as well as make ourselves liable to the heavy fine the
railway company had power to inflict. We rather reluctantly returned to the road we had left,
but not before seeing some of the big ships from the bridge--the finest and last of the iron
tubular bridges built by the famous engineer Brunel, the total length, including approaches,
being 2,200 feet. It had been opened by H.R.H. the Prince Consort in 1859, and was named after
him the "Royal Albert" Bridge. We had now to leave the main road and find our way across country,
chiefly by means of by-lanes, until we reached Tavistock, where there was a bridge by which
we could cross the River Tavy. We had become quite accustomed to this kind of experience, and
looked upon it as a matter of course, for repeatedly in Scotland we had been forced to make
a circuit to find the "head of the loch" because we objected to cross the loch itself by a ferry.

We had only proceeded a mile or two beyond the great bridge at Saltash, when we came in sight
of the village of St. Budeaux, at the entrance of which we came upon a large number of fine-looking
soldiers, who, we were informed, were the 42nd Highlanders, commonly known as the Black Watch.
They were crossing a grass-covered space of land, probably the village green, and moving in
the same direction as ourselves, not marching in any regular order, but walking leisurely in
groups. We were surprised to see the band marching quietly in the rear, and wondered why they
were not marching in front playing their instruments. The soldiers, however, were carrying
firearms, which quite alarmed my brother, who never would walk near a man who carried a gun--for
if there was one thing in the world that he was afraid of more than of being drowned, it was
of being shot with a gun, the very sight of which always made him feel most uncomfortable.
He had only used a gun once in all his life, when quite a boy, and was so terrified on that
occasion that nothing could ever induce him to shoot again. He was staying at a farm in the
country with a cousin, who undertook to show him how to shoot a bird that was sitting on its
nest. It was a very cruel thing to do, but he loaded the gun and placed it in my brother's
hand in the correct position, telling him to look along the barrel of the gun until he could
see the bird, and then pull the trigger. He did so, and immediately he was on the ground, with
the gun on top of him. His cousin had some difficulty in persuading him that the gun had not
gone off at the wrong end and that he was not shot instead of the bird. It was one of the old-fashioned
shot-guns known as "kickers," and the recoil had sent him flying backwards at the moment of
the noise of the discharge--a combination which so frightened him that he avoided guns ever
afterwards.

We were obliged to walk quickly, for we knew we had a long walk before us that day and must
get past the Highlanders, who fortunately were in no hurry. We passed one group after another
until we reached the narrow road along which we had been directed to turn. Here we saw the
soldiers going the same way, now walking in twos and threes, and presently the road developed
into one of the deep, narrow lanes so common in Devonshire. We continued to pass the soldiers,
but there was now a greater distance between the small groups. Presently we were accosted by
a sergeant, one of the most finely proportioned men we had ever seen--a giant, as we thought,
amongst giants, for all the soldiers were very big men--who said to us, "Now, my lads! if you
see any of the enemy, tell them we are two or three miles away, will you?" We wondered what
he meant, but as he smiled, we considered it a joke, and replied, "All right!" as we moved
on. We had passed all the soldiers except the first two, who were about fifty yards ahead.
They had climbed up the high bank on the left-hand side of the lane, and were apparently looking
over the country and shading their eyes with their hands so as to get a better view, when we
saw a number of others belonging to the same regiment file quietly down-the opposite side.
Crossing the lane, they ran up the bank where the two soldiers were still standing, and almost
before they realised what was happening their bonnets had been taken off their heads and they
found themselves prisoners. It was a clever capture, and as it took place immediately before
our eyes, we remained standing there looking on with astonishment, for we had no idea what
was about to happen.

But immediately the scene changed, and soldiers appeared in front, both in the lane and high
up above the road. But the worst feature was that they began firing their guns; so here we
were in a deep lane from which there was no escape, and, as we afterwards ascertained, between
the two halves of one of the most famous regiments in the British army, one ambuscaded by the
other! We were taken completely by surprise, as we had never seen or heard of a sham fight
before, and it appeared a terrible thing to us, as the fiery eyes and fierce countenances of
the soldiers were fearful to see, and we became greatly alarmed, expecting every minute to
be taken prisoners. I consoled my brother by telling him the guns were only loaded with blank
cartridges, but his only remark was, "But suppose one of them isn't, and we get shot," and
he began to walk onwards more quickly than I had ever seen him walk before. Keeping as near
one side the road as possible, and dodging between the soldiers, with myself following closely
behind his heels, perspiring profusely with fear and exertion until there was scarcely a dry
thread upon us, we managed at last to escape, and were profoundly thankful when we got clear
of the Black Watch and so ended one of the most exciting adventures we ever had. It reminded
my brother of the Charge of the Light Brigade, a story he was very familiar with, an Irish
friend of his named Donoghue being one of the trumpeters who sounded it, and of Tennyson's words:

  Cannon to right of them.
  Cannon to left of them,
  Cannon in front of them,
    Volley'd and thundered.

In our case, he said, we had guns at our back in addition.

We did not know at that time that the 42nd Highlanders were so famous, but a friend of ours,
an officer in the army, has since handed us a description of that regiment, bringing its history
down to a later period.

   The 42nd Highlanders were originally formed from the independent
   companies raised in the year 1729 to keep the King's peace among the
   Highland Hills; the Black Watch, so called from the dark hue of its
   tartan, was first paraded as a regiment of the British army in 1740.
   They had distinguished themselves in all parts of the world: America,
   India, Flanders, Egypt, Corunna, Waterloo, Sevastopol, Indian Mutiny,
   Ashantee, Egypt, Nile, and South Africa, and lost heavily at
   Ticonderago, Toulouse, Waterloo, and afterwards in the Boer War. They
   were amongst our bravest soldiers, and were famous as being one of
   the four regiments named for distinction by Wellington at Waterloo;
   twice they had been specially called upon, once at the Battle of
   Alexandria, when the Commander-in-Chief, Sir Ralph Abercromby, called
   for a special effort at a critical period in the fight, saying, "My
   brave Highlanders! Remember your forefathers! Remember your country!"
   and victory immediately ensued; and again at the Battle of Corunna,
   when Sir John Moore in the thick of the fight, before being mortally
   wounded, exclaimed, "Highlanders! Remember Egypt!" and the foe was
   scattered in all directions. In Egypt, after storming Tel-el-Kebir
   and taking part in the battles that followed, such was the conduct of
   the Black Watch that Lord Wolseley sent the following telegram:

   "Well done, old comrades of the Black Watch."

Such we may venture to say were the men among whom we found ourselves on that occasion. In
after life we always took a deep interest in the doings of that famous regiment, and we noticed
that when any hard fighting had to be done, the Black Watch nearly always assisted to do it--so
much so that sometimes we regretted that we had not had the honour of having been taken prisoner
by them on that ever-memorable occasion!

The next village we came to was Tamerton Foliot, in a lovely situation, standing at the end
of a creek which fills with the tide. At that point the waters of the Tavy join those of the
larger River Tamar, and eventually assist to form the Hamoaze. Tamerton was a very old settlement,
as Gilbert Foliot, who was Bishop of London from 1163 to 1188, and one of the most prominent
opponents of Thomas a Becket, Archbishop of Canterbury, was a native of that village. There
was a recumbent effigy in the church dating from the year 1346; but beyond that the great object
of interest in the village was an old oak tree named the Coppleston Oak, because of a very
sorrowful incident which occurred near the church one Sunday morning many centuries ago. It
appeared that a local squire named Coppleston, a man of bad temper and vile disposition, when
at dinner made some gross remarks which were repeated in the village by his son. He was so
enraged when he heard of it, on the Sunday, that as they were leaving the church he threw his
dagger at the lad, wounding him in the loins so that he fell down and died. An oak tree was
planted near the spot, and was still pointed out as the Coppleston Oak. The father meanwhile
fled to France, and his friends obtained a conditional pardon for him; but to escape being
hanged he had to forfeit thirteen manors in Cornwall.

We were now fairly off the beaten track, but by devious ways, with lovely wooded and river
scenery to the left and the wild scenery of Dartmoor to the right, we managed to reach Buckland
Abbey. This abbey was founded in 1278 by the Countess of Baldwin-de Redvers, Earl of Devon,
and we expected to find it in ruins, as usual. But when Henry VIII dissolved the monasteries,
he gave Buckland to Sir Richard Grenville, who converted it into a magnificent mansion, although
some few of the monastic buildings still remained. He formed the great hall so as to be under
the great central tower of the old abbey, and the dining-room he formed out of a portion of
the nave, while the drawing-room was at the end of a long gallery upstairs; so that altogether
it formed a unique structure. In 1581, however, it was sold to Sir Francis Drake, and the mansion
contained some relics of his, amongst which were two drums; there were also a chair and a table
made out of one of his old ships, the Pelican, and a fine portrait of Sir Francis by Jansen,
dated 1594. The gardens were very beautiful, as the trees in this sheltered position grew almost
without let or hindrance; there were some of the finest tulip trees there that we had ever
seen. We were informed that when Sir Francis Drake began to make some alteration in his new
possessions, the stones that were built up in the daytime were removed during the night or
taken down in some mysterious manner. So one moonlight night he put on a white sheet, and climbed
a tree overlooking the building, with the object of frightening any one who might come to pull
down the stones. When the great clock which formerly belonged to the old abbey struck the hour
of twelve, he saw the earth open below, and about twenty little black devils came out and started
to pull down the wall. Sir Francis began to move his arms about and flap them as if they were
wings, and then crowed like a cock. The devils, when they heard the white bird crowing, looked
up, and, thinking the morning must be close at hand, immediately disappeared to the regions
below. We could not learn if or how often these performances were repeated, but it seemed a
very unlikely thing for Sir Francis Drake to do, and the story sounded as if it belonged to
a far remoter period than that of the Spanish Armada.

Drake was idolised in Plymouth and the surrounding country, where his
name was held in everlasting remembrance, and his warlike spirit
pervaded the British navy. At a much later period than that of our visit
even his drum was not forgotten. Whether it was one of those that were
preserved in the old abbey or not we did not know, but it is the subject
of a stirring poem by Sir Henry Newbolt.
  Yarnder lumes the island, yarnder lie the ships,
    Wi' sailor lads a-dancin' heel-an'-toe,
  An' the shore-lights flashin', an' the night-tide dashin',
    He sees et arl so plainly as he saw et long ago.

  Drake he was a Devon man, an' ruled the Devon seas,
    (Capten, art tha' sleepin' there below?),
  Rovin' tho' his death fell, he went wi' heart at ease,
    An' dreamin' arl the time o' Plymouth Hoe.

In olden times there existed a much older abbey than Buckland, named Buckfast Abbey, but it
was right on the other side of Dartmoor, and the abbots and monks formerly crossed from one
to the other. In those remote times there were no proper roads, and the tracks between the
two places were mainly made by the feet of the monks, with crosses placed at intervals to prevent
their losing the way, especially when the hills were covered with snow. The track still existed,
being known as the "Abbots' Way." The distance between the two abbeys was about sixteen miles
as the crow flies, but as the track had to go partially round some of the tors, which there
rose to an elevation of about 1,500 feet above sea-level, and were directly in the way, it
must have involved a walk of quite twenty miles from one abbey to the other. Buckfast Abbey
is one of the oldest in Britain, and ultimately became the richest Cistercian house in the
West of England. The last abbot was Gabriel Donne, who received his appointment for having
in 1536 captured Tyndale the Reformer, who was in the same year put to death by strangling
and burning.

One of the earliest stories of the "lost on the moors" was connected with that road. Childe,
the "Hunter of Plymstock," had been hunting in one of the wildest districts on Dartmoor, and
was returning home at night, when a heavy snowstorm came on and the night became bitterly cold.
Having completely lost his way, and as his tired horse could go no farther, he stopped at one
of the ancient crosses and dismounted. His blood, however, began to freeze within him, and
to try to save his own life he killed his horse, and, cutting a great hole in its body, crept
inside. When daylight came in the morning, knowing he was dying, and that some of the monks
would probably find his body when they came to the cross, he dipped his fingers in his horse's
blood and scribbled on the stone:

  They fyrste that fyndes and brings mee to my grave,
  The Priorie of Plymstocke they shall have.

His body was found by the "monks of Tavystoke," and buried in their abbey at Tavistock; and
from that time to the dissolution of the monasteries the Abbey of Tavistock had possession
of the manor of Plymstock, Childe having no children to follow him.

We were sorry that we had been unable to explore Dartmoor itself instead of only its fringes,
so we decided to make an effort to see Dartmoor Prison, which we were given to understand was
only a few miles away. We changed our course a little and passed on to Walkhampton, where we
were advised to follow the by-road above the Walkham river, from which the village took its
name, this being the easiest and most pleasant way. We had a nice walk along the valley until
we reached Merridale, but there we succumbed to the attractions of the small inn. We felt that
we should never be able to wait for food until we reached Tavistock, as the mountain air and
the exertion of climbing up the hill had been too much for us, so we ordered refreshments there
instead of at Tavistock, as originally intended. We had loitered a little on our way up the
hill, stopping to look at the views behind us, which were better than those in front--a necessary
procedure, for we were rather inclined at times "to keep our noses too near the grindstone,"
or perhaps, like Othello, to be "led by the nose as asses are," and to toil up the hills with
the wilderness before us, in total forgetfulness of the lovely scenes behind. We therefore
advise all tourists on a walking expedition to look back occasionally, since much of the pleasure
and beauty of the tour may otherwise be lost.

We had a short walk in the direction of Princetown, where the prison was situated, but we were
not at all favourably impressed by the appearance of the country, without a house in sight
except the inn where our refreshments were being prepared. Presently we met an official in
uniform, who told us the prisoners were not always kept inside the prison, but were employed
in making and repairing roads and fences and in cultivating land. He pointed out some men a
long distance away who were so employed, and strongly advised us not to go any farther in that
direction. The only objects of interest on the Moor, beyond the tors and the views from their
summits, were the antiquities, which in that part were particularly numerous, for without leaving
the road between the prison and Merridale there could be seen a cluster of hut circles, a kistvaen,
a menhir, and a double line of stone rows, and within a short radius many other relics of prehistoric
man, as well as one or two logans or rocking-stones. We therefore returned with him to the
inn--for even an antiquary cannot live on stones; he ought to be well supported with both food
and clothing to enable him fully to explore and appreciate the ancient relics of Dartmoor.
Our refreshments were quite ready and were soon put out of sight, and, as we had a downward
gradient to the River Tavy, we had made up for our delay when we crossed the bridge over the
river and entered the town of Tavistock.

The earliest history of Tavistock was no doubt associated with the prehistoric remains on the
hills above, if that had been written; but as early as the tenth century Orgarius, Earl of
Devon, in consequence of a dream, decided to build a magnificent abbey there, and to dedicate
it to St. Mary. He began to build it in 961, but as he died before it was completed, his son
Ordulph completed it in 981 and endowed it with the manor of Tavistock and others. Ordulph
was also a nephew of King Ethelred, and, according to tradition, was a giant able to stride
across a river ten feet wide. Orgarius had not only left a gigantic son, but he had also left
a daughter of such surpassing beauty that her fame spread all over England; and Edgar, who
by that time was king, hearing of the wonderful beauty of Elfrida, sent his favourite--Athelwold--to
her father's castle to ascertain if her beauty was such as had been reported. Athelwold went
on his mission, but was so struck and bewildered with Elfrida's beauty that he fell violently
in love with her himself, and when he returned he told Edgar that Elfrida was not so beautiful,
but was rich and more fit to be the wife of a subject than a king. Edgar therefore consented
to his favourite's marriage with her; but the king, discovering that he had been deceived,
insisted on paying Athelwold a visit at his home in Devonshire. Athelwold craved permission
to go home and prepare for the king's visit, which was granted, and with all possible haste
he went and, kneeling before his wife, confessed all, and asked her to help him out of his
difficulties by putting on an old dress and an awkward appearance when the king came, so that
his life might be spared. Elfrida was, however, disappointed at the loss of a crown, and, instead
of obscuring her beauty, she clothed herself so as to appear as beautiful as possible, and,
as she expected, captivated the royal Edgar. A few days afterwards Athelwold was found murdered
in a wood, and the king married his widow. But the union, beginning with crime, could not be
other than unhappy, and ended disastrously, the king only surviving his marriage six or seven
years and dying at the early age of thirty-two. He was buried at Glastonbury, an abbey he had
greatly befriended.

