Putting no emphasis on the mere technicalities of religion, he made his pulpit flame with its
power. He was the special inspiration of young men, and the disheartened took courage under
the touch of his words and rose up healed. It will take all time and all eternity to tell the
results of his Christian utterances. There were some who thought that there was here and there
an unsafe spot in his theology. As for ourselves we never found anything in the man or in his
utterances that we did not like.

Although fully realising that I was approaching a crisis of some sort in my own career, it
was with definite thankfulness for the mercies that had upheld me so long that I forged ahead.
My state of mind at this time was peaceful and contented. I find in a note-book of this period
of my life the following entry, which betrays the trend of my heart and mind during the last
milestone of my ministry in Brooklyn:

"Here I am in Madison, Wisconsin, July 23, 1893. I have been attending Monona Lake Chautauqua,
lecturing yesterday, preaching this morning. This Sabbath afternoon I have been thinking of
the goodness of God to me. It began many years before I was born; for as far back as I can
find anything concerning my ancestry, both on my father's and mother's sides, they were virtuous
and Christian people. Who shall estimate the value of such a pedigree? The old cradle, as I
remember it, was made out of plain boards, but it was a Christian cradle. God has been good
in letting us be born in a fair climate, neither in the rigours of frigidity nor in the scorching
air of tropical regions. Fortunate was I in being started in a home neither rich nor poor,
so that I had the temptations of neither luxury nor poverty. Fortunate in good health--sixty
years of it. I say sixty rather than sixty-one, for I believe the first year or two of my life
compassed all styles of infantile ailments, from mumps to scarlet fever.

"A quarter of a century ago, looking at a pile of manuscript sermons, I said again and again
to my wife: 'Those sermons were not made only for the people who have already heard them. They
must have a wider field.' The prophecy came true, and every one of those sermons through the
press has come to the attention of at least twenty-five million people. I have no reason to
be morose or splenetic. 'Goodness and mercy have followed me all the days of my life.' Here
I am at 61 years of age without an ache, a pain, or a physical infirmity. Now closing a preaching
and lecturing tour from Georgia to Minnesota and Wisconsin, I am to-morrow morning to start
for my residence at the seaside where my family are awaiting me, and notwithstanding all the
journeying and addressing of great audiences, and shaking hands with thousands of people, after
a couple of days' rest will be no more weary than when I left home. 'Bless the Lord, O my soul!'"

My ordinary mode of passing vacations has been to go to East Hampton, Long Island, and thence
to go out for two or three preaching and lecturing excursions to points all the way between
New York and San Francisco, or from Texas to Maine. I find that I cannot rest more than two
weeks at a time. The Presbyterian church here was his first pastoral settlement. When a boy
in grammar school and college I visited him and his wife, my sister Mary. The place is gradually
submitting to modern notions, but East Hampton, whether in its antiquated shape or epauletted
and frilled and decorated by the hand of modern enterprise, has always been to me a semi-Paradise.

As I approach it my pulse is slackened and a delicious somnolence comes over me. I dream out
the work for another year.

My most useful sermons have been born here. My most successful books were planned here. In
this place, between the hours of somnolence, there come hours of illumination and ecstasy.
It seems far off from the heated and busy world. East Hampton has been a great blessing to
my family. It has been a mercy to have them here, free from all summer heats. When nearly grown,
the place is not lively enough for them, but an occasional diversion to White Sulphur, or Alum
Springs, or a summer in Europe, has given them abundant opportunity. All my children have been
with us in Europe, except my departed son, DeWitt, who was at a most important period in school
at the time of our going, or he would have been with us on one of our foreign tours.

I have crossed the ocean twelve times, that is six each way, and like it less and less. It
is to me a stomachic horror. But the frequent visits have given educational opportunity to
my children. Foreign travel, and lecturing and preaching excursions in our own country have
been to me a stimulus, while East Hampton has been to me a sedative and anodyne. For this beautiful
medicament I am profoundly thankful.

But I am writing this in the new house that we have builded in place of our old one. It is
far more beautiful and convenient and valuable than the old one, but I doubt if it will be
any more useful. And a railroad has been laid out, and before summer is passed the shriek of
a locomotive will awaken all the Rip Van Winkles that have been slumbering here since before
the first almanac was printed.

The task of remembering the best of one's life is a pleasant one. Under date of December 20,
1893, I find another recollection in my note-book that is worth amplifying.

"This morning, passing through Frankfort, Kentucky, on my way from Lexington, at the close
of a preaching and lecturing tour of nearly three weeks, I am reminded of a most royal visit
that I had here at Frankfort as the guest of Governor Blackburn, at the gubernatorial mansion
about ten years ago.

"I had made an engagement to preach twice at High Bridge, Ky., a famous camp meeting. Governor
Blackburn telegraphed me to Brooklyn asking when and where I would enter Kentucky, as he wished
to meet me on the border of the State and conduct me to the High Bridge services. We met at
Cincinnati. Crossing the Ohio River, we found the Governor's especial car with its luxurious
appointments and group of servants to spread the table and wait on every want. The Governor,
a most fascinating and splendid man, with a warmth of cordiality that glows in me every time
I recall his memory, entertained me with the story of his life which had been a romance of
mercy in the healing art, he having been elected to his high office in appreciation of his
heroic services as physician in time of yellow fever.

"At Lexington a brusque man got on our car, and we entered with him into vigorous conversation.
I did not hear his name on introduction, and I felt rather sorry that the Governor should have
invited him into our charming seclusion. But the stranger became such an entertainer as a colloquialist,
and demonstrated such extraordinary intellectuality, I began to wonder who he was, and I addressed
him, saying, "Sir, I did not hear your name when you were introduced." He replied, 'My name
is Beck--Senator Beck.' Then and there began one of the most entertaining friendships of my
life. Great Scotch soul! Beck came a poor boy from Scotland to America, hired himself out for
farm work in Kentucky, discovered to his employer a fondness for reading, was offered free
access to his employer's large library, and marched right up into education and the legal profession
and the Senate of the United States."

That day we got out of the train at High Bridge. My sermon was on "The Divinity of the Scriptures."
Directly in front of me, and with most intense look, whether of disapprobation or approval
I knew not, sat the Senator. On the train back to Lexington, where he took me in his carriage
on a long ride amid the scenes of Clayiana, he told me the sermon had re-established his faith
in Christianity, for he had been brought up to believe the Bible as most of the people in Scotland
believe it. But I did not know all that transpired that day at High Bridge until after the
Senator was dead, and I was in Lexington, and visited his grave at the cemetery where he sleeps
amid the mighty Kentuckians who have adorned their State.

On this last visit that I speak of, a young man connected with the Phoenix Hotel, Lexington,
where Senator Beck lived much of the time, and where he entertained me, told me that on the
morning of the day that Senator Beck went with me to High Bridge he had been standing in that
hotel among a group of men who were assailing Christianity, and expressing surprise that Senator
Beck was going to High Bridge to hear a sermon. When we got to the hotel that afternoon the
same group of men were standing together, and were waiting to hear the Senator's report of
the service, and hoping to get something to the disadvantage of religion. My informant heard
them say to him, "Well, how was it?" The Senator replied, "Doctor Talmage proved the truth
of the Bible as by a mathematical demonstration. Now talk to me no more on that subject."

On Sunday morning I returned to High Bridge for another preaching service. Governor Blackburn
again took us in his especial car. The word "immensity" may give adequate idea of the audience
present. Then the Governor insisted that I go with him to Frankfort and spend a few days. They
were memorable days to me. At breakfast, lunch and dinner the prominent people of Kentucky
were invited to meet me. Mrs. Blackburn took me to preach to her Bible Class in the State Prison.
I think there were about 800 convicts in that class. Paul would have called her "The elect
lady," "Thoroughly furnished unto all good works." Heaven only can tell the story of her usefulness.
What days and nights they were at the Governor's Mansion. No one will ever understand the heartiness
and generosity and warmth of Kentucky hospitality until he experiences it.

President Arthur was coming through Lexington on his way to open an Exposition at Louisville.
Governor Blackburn was to go to Lexington to receive him and make a speech. The Governor read
me the speech in the State House before leaving Frankfort, and asked for my criticism. It was
an excellent speech about which I made only one criticism, and that concerning a sentence in
which he praised the beautiful women and the fine horses of Kentucky. I suggested that he put
the human and the equine subjects of his admiration in different sentences, and this suggestion
he adopted.

We started for Lexington and arrived at the hotel. Soon the throngs in the streets showed that
the President of the United States was coming. The President was escorted into the parlour
to receive the address of welcome, and seeing me in the throng, he exclaimed, "Dr. Talmage!
Are you here? It makes me feel at home to see you." The Governor put on his spectacles and
began to read his speech, but the light was poor, and he halted once or twice for a word, when
I was tempted to prompt him, for I remembered his speech better than he did himself.

That day I bade good-bye to Governor Blackburn, and I saw him two or three times after that,
once in my church in Brooklyn and once in Louisville lecture hall, where he stood at the door
to welcome me as I came in from New Orleans on a belated train at half-past nine o'clock at
night when I ought to have begun my lecture at 8 o'clock; and the last time I saw him he was
sick and in sad decadence and near the terminus of an eventful life. One of my brightest anticipations
of Heaven is that of seeing my illustrious Kentucky friend.

That experience at Frankfort was one of the many courtesies I have received from all the leading
men of all the States. I have known many of the Governors, and Legislatures, when I have looked
in upon them, have adjourned to give me reception, a speech has always been called for, and
then a general hand-shaking has followed. It was markedly so with the Legislatures of Ohio
and Missouri. At Jefferson City, the capital of Missouri, both Houses of Legislature adjourned
and met together in the Assembly Room, which was the larger place, and then the Governor introduced
me for an address.

It is a satisfaction to be kindly treated by the prominent characters of your own time. I confess
to a feeling of pleasure when General Grant, at the Memorial Services at Greenwood--I think
the last public meeting he ever attended, and where I delivered the Memorial Address on Decoration
Day--said that he had read with interest everything that appeared connected with my name. President
Arthur, at the White House one day, told me the same thing.

Whenever by the mysterious laws of destiny I found myself in the cave of the winds of displeasure,
there always came to me encouraging echoes from somewhere. I find among my papers at this time
a telegram from the Russian Ambassador in Washington, which illustrates this idea.

This message read as follows:--

    "Washington, D.C., May 20, 1893.

    "To Rev. T. DeWitt Talmage, Bible House, New York.

    "I would be very glad to see you on the 27th of May in Philadelphia
    on board the Russian flagship 'Dimitry Donskoy' at eleven o'clock,
    to tender to you in presence of our brilliant sailors and on Russian
    soil, a souvenir His Majesty the Emperor ordered me to give in his
    name to the American gentleman who visited Russia during the trying
    year 1892.

    "CANTACUZENE."

Gladly I obeyed this request, and was presented, amid imperial ceremonies, with a magnificent
solid gold tea service from the Emperor Alexander III. These were the sort of appreciative
incidents so often happening in my life that infused my work with encouragements.

The months preceding the close of my ministry in Brooklyn developed a remarkable interest shown
among those to whom my name had become a symbol of the Gospel message. There was a universal,
world-wide recognition of my work. Many regretted my decision to leave the Brooklyn Tabernacle,
some doubted that I actually intended to do so, others foretold a more brilliant future for
me in the open trail of Gospel service they expected me to follow.

All this enthusiasm expressed by my friends of the world culminated in a celebration festival
given in honour of the twenty-fifth anniversary of my pastorate in Brooklyn. The movement spread
all over the country and to Europe. It was decided to make the occasion a sort of International
reception, to be held in the Tabernacle on May 10 and 11, 1894.

I had made my plans for a wide glimpse of the earth and the people on it who knew me, but whom
I had never seen. I had made preparations to start on May 14, and the dates set for this jubilee
were arranged on the eve of my farewell. I was about to make a complete circuit of the globe,
and whatever my friends expected me to do otherwise I approached this occasion with a very
definite conclusion that it would be my farewell to Brooklyn.

I recall this event in my life with keen contrasts of feeling, for it is mingled in my heart
with swift impressions of extraordinary joy and tragic import. All of it was God's will--the
blessing and the chastening.

The church had been decorated with the stars and stripes, with gold and purple. In front of
the great organ, under a huge picture of the pastor, was the motto that briefly described my
evangelical career:--

"Tabernacle his pulpit; the world his audience."

The reception began at eight o'clock in the evening with a selection on the great organ, by
Henry Eyre Brown, our organist, of an original composition written by him and called, in compliment
to the occasion, "The Talmage Silver Anniversary March." On the speaker's platform with me
were Mayor Schieren, of Brooklyn, Mr. Barnard Peters, Rev. Father Sylvester Malone, Rev. Dr.
John F. Carson, ex-Mayor David A. Boody, Rev. Dr. Gregg, Rabbi F. De Sol Mendes, Rev. Dr. Louis
Albert Banks, Hon. John Winslow, Rev. Spencer F. Roche, and Rev. A.C. Dixon--an undenominational
gathering of good men. There is, perhaps, no better way to record my own impressions of this
event than to quote the words with which I replied to the complimentary speeches of this oration.
They recall, more closely and positively, the sensibilities, the emotions, and the inspiration
of that hour:

    "Dear Mr. Mayor, and friends before me, and friends behind me, and
    friends all around me, and friends hovering over me, and friends in
    this room, and the adjoining rooms, and friends indoors and
    outdoors--forever photographed upon my mind and heart is this scene
    of May 10, 1894. The lights, the flags, the decorations, the
    flowers, the music, the illumined faces will remain with me while
    earthly life lasts, and be a cause of thanksgiving after I have
    passed into the Great Beyond. Two feelings dominate me
    to-night--gratitude and unworthiness; gratitude first to God, and
    next, to all who have complimented me.

    "My twenty-five years in Brooklyn have been happy years--hard work,
    of course. This is the fourth church in which I have preached since
    coming to Brooklyn, and how much of the difficult work of church
    building that implies you can appreciate. This church had its mother
    and its grandmother, and its great-grandmother. I could not tell the
    story of disasters without telling the story of heroes and heroines,
    and around me in all these years have stood men and women of whom
    the world was not worthy. But for the most part the twenty-five
    years have been to me a great happiness. With all good people here
    present the wonder is, although they may not express it, 'What will
    be the effect upon the pastor of this church; of all this scene?'
    Only one effect, I assure you, and that an inspiration for better
    work for God and humanity. And the question is already absorbing my
    entire nature, 'What can I do to repay Brooklyn for this great
    uprising?' Here is my hand and heart for a campaign of harder work
    for God and righteousness than I have ever yet accomplished. I have
    been told that sometimes in the Alps there are great avalanches
    called down by a shepherd's voice. The pure white snows pile up
    higher and higher like a great white throne, mountains of snow on
    mountains of snow, and all this is so delicately and evenly poised
    that the touch of a hand or the vibration of air caused by the human
    voice will send down the avalanche into the valleys with
    all-compassing and overwhelming power. Well, to-night I think that
    the heavens above us are full of pure white blessings, mountains of
    mercy on mountains of mercy, and it will not take much to bring down
    the avalanche of benediction, and so I put up my right hand to reach
    it and lift my voice, to start it. And now let the avalanche of
    blessing come upon your bodies, your minds, your souls, your homes,
    your churches, and your city.

On the next day, May 11, the reception was continued. Among the speakers was the Hon. William
M. Evarts, ex-Secretary of State, who, though advanced in years, honoured us with his presence
and an address. Senator Walsh, of Georgia, spoke for the South; ex-Congressman Joseph C. Hendrix
of Brooklyn, Rev. Charles L. Thompson, Murat Halstead, Rev. Dr. I.J. Lansing, General Tracey,
were among the other speakers of the evening.

From St. Petersburg came a cable, signed by Count Bobrinsky, saying:--"Heartfelt congratulations
from remembering friends."

Messages from Senator John Sherman, from Governor McKinley (before he became President), from
Mr. Gladstone, from Rev. Joseph Parker, and among others from London, the following cable,
which I shall always prize among the greatest testimonials of the broad Gospel purpose in England--

    "Cordial congratulations; grateful acknowledgment of splendid
    services in ministry during last twenty-five years. Warm wishes for
    future prosperity.

    "(Signed)
    ARCHDEACON OF LONDON,
    CANON WILBERFORCE.
    THOMAS DAVIDSON.
    PROFESSOR SIMPSON.
    JOHN LOBB.
    BISHOP OF LONDON."

Appreciation, good cheer, encouragement swept around and about me, as I was to start on what
Dr. Gregg described as "A walk among the people of my congregation" around the world.

The following Sunday, May 13, 1894, just after the morning service, the Tabernacle was burned
to the ground.

THE SEVENTEENTH MILESTONE

1895-1898

Among the mysteries that are in every man's life, more or less influencing his course, is the
mystery of disaster that comes upon him noiselessly, suddenly, horribly. The destruction of
the New Tabernacle by a fire which started in the organ loft was one of these mysteries that
will never be revealed this side of eternity. The destruction of any church, no matter how
large or how popular, does not destroy our faith in God. Great as the disaster had been, much
greater was the mercy of Divine mystery that prevented a worse calamity in the loss of human
life. The fire was discovered just after the morning service, and everyone had left the building
but myself, Mrs. Talmage, the organist, and one or two personal friends. We were standing in
the centre aisle of the church when a puff of smoke suddenly came out of the space behind the
organ. In less than fifteen minutes from that discovery the huge pipe organ was a raging furnace,
and I personally narrowly escaped the falling debris by the rear door of my church study. The
flags and decoration which had been put up for the jubilee celebration had not been moved,
and they whetted the appetite of the flames. It was all significant to me of one thing chiefly,
that at some points of my life I had been given no choice. At these places of surprise in my
life there was never any doubt about what I had to do. God's way is very clear and visible
when the Divine purpose is intended for you.

I had delivered that morning my farewell sermon before departing on a long journey around the
world. My prayer, in which the silent sympathy of a vast congregation joined me, had invoked
the Divine protection and blessing upon us, upon all who were present at that time, upon all
who had participated in the great jubilee service of the preceding week. On the tablets of
memory I had recalled all the kindnesses that had been shown our church by other churches and
other pastors on that occasion. The general feeling of my prayer had been an outpouring of
heartfelt gratitude for myself and my flock. As I have said before, God speaks loudest in the
thunder of our experiences. There were several narrow escapes, for the fire spread with great
rapidity, but, fortunately, all escaped from the doomed building in time. Mr. Frederick W.
Lawrence and Mr. T.E. Matthews, both of them trustees of the church, were exposed to serious
danger and their escape was providential. Mr. Lawrence crept out on his hands and knees to
the open air, and Mr. Matthews was almost suffocated when he reached the street.

The flames spread rapidly in the neighbourhood and destroyed the Hotel Regent, adjoining the
church. At my home that day there were many messages of sympathy and condolence brought to
me, and neighbouring churches sent committees to tender the use of their pulpits. In the afternoon
the Tabernacle trustees met at my house and submitted the following letter, which was adopted:--

    "DEAR DR. TALMAGE.--With saddened hearts, but undismayed, and with
    faith in God unshaken and undisturbed, the trustees of the Brooklyn
    Tabernacle have unanimously resolved to rebuild the Tabernacle. We
    find that after paying the present indebtedness there will be
    nothing left to begin with.

    "But if we can feel assured that our dear pastor will continue to
    break the bread of life to us and to the great multitudes that are
    accustomed to throng the Tabernacle, we are willing to undertake the
    work, firmly believing that we can safely count upon the blessing of
    God and the practical sympathy of all Christian people.

    "Will you kindly give us the encouragement of your promise to serve
    the Tabernacle as its pastor, if we will dedicate a new building
    free from debt, to the honour, the glory, and the service of God?

    "TRUSTEES OF THE TABERNACLE."

On reading this letter, or rather hearing it read to me, in the impulse of gratitude I replied
in like sympathy. I thanked them, and remembering that I had buried their dead, baptised their
children and married the young, my heart was with them. I sincerely felt then, and perhaps
I always did feel, that I would rather serve them than any other people on the face of the
earth. It was my conclusion that if the trustees could fulfil the conditions they had mentioned,
of building a new Tabernacle, free of debt, I would remain their pastor.

My date for beginning my journey around the world had been May 14, the day following the disaster.
Before leaving, however, I dictated the following communication to my friends and the friends
of my ministry everywhere:--

    "Our church has again been halted by a sword of flame. The
    destruction of the first Brooklyn Tabernacle was a mystery. The
    destruction of the second a greater--profound. The third calamity we
    adjourn to the Judgment Day for explanation. The home of a vast
    multitude of souls, it has become a heap of ashes. Whether it will
    ever rise again is a prophecy we will not undertake. God rules and
    reigns and makes no mistake. He has His way with churches as with
    individuals. One thing is certain: the pastor of the Brooklyn
    Tabernacle will continue to preach as long as life and health last.
    We have no anxieties about a place to preach in. But woe is unto us
    if we preach not the Gospel! We ask for the prayers of all good
    people for the pastor and people of the Brooklyn Tabernacle.

    "T. DEWITT TALMAGE."

At half past nine o'clock on the night of May 14, 1894, I descended the front steps of my home
in Brooklyn, N.Y. The sensation of leaving for a journey around the world was not all bright
anticipation. The miles to be travelled were numerous, the seas to be crossed treacherous,
the solemnities outnumbered the expectations. My family accompanied me to the railroad train,
and my thought was should we ever meet again? The climatic changes, the ships, the shoals,
the hurricanes, the bridges, the cars, the epidemics, the possibilities hinder any positiveness
of prophecy. I remembered the consoling remark at my reception a few evenings ago, made by
the Hon. William M. Evarts.

He said: "Dr. Talmage ought to realise that if he goes around the world he will come out at
the same place he started."

The timbers of our destroyed church were still smoking when I left home. Three great churches
had been consumed. Why this series of huge calamities I knew not. Had I not made all the arrangements
for departure, and been assured by the trustees of my church that they would take all further
responsibilities upon themselves, I would have postponed my intended tour or adjourned it for
ever; but all whom I consulted told me that now was the time to go, so I turned my face towards
the Golden Gate.

In a book called "The Earth Girdled," I have published all the facts of this journey. It contains
so completely the daily record of my trip that there is no necessity to repeat any of its contents
in these pages.

I returned to the United States in the autumn of 1894 and entered actively into a campaign
of preaching wherever a pulpit was available. Of course there was much curiosity and interest
to know how I was going to pursue my Gospel work, having resigned my pastorate in Brooklyn.
On Sunday, January 6, 1895, I commenced a series of afternoon Gospel meetings in the Academy
of Music, New York, every Sunday. Because the pastors of other churches had written me that
an afternoon service was the only one that would not interfere with their regular services,
I selected that time, otherwise I would much have preferred the morning or the evening. I decided
to go to New York because for many years friends over there had been begging me to come. I
regarded it as absurd and improbable to expect the people of Brooklyn to build a fourth Tabernacle,
so I went in the direction that I felt would give me the largest opportunity in the world.

I continued to reside in Brooklyn pending future plans. I liked Brooklyn immensely--not only
the people of my own former parish, but prominent people of all churches and denominations
there are my warm personal friends. Any particular church in which I preached thereafter was
only the candlestick. In different parts of the world my sermons were published in more than
ten million copies every week. How many readers saw them no one can say positively. Those sermons
came back to me in book form in almost every language of Europe.

My arrangements at the Academy of Music were not the final plans for my Gospel work. I expected,
however, to gather from these Gospel meetings sufficient guidance to decide my field of work
for the rest of my life. I felt then that I was yet to do my best work free from all hindrances.
I looked forward to fully twenty years of good hard work before me.

Over nine churches in my own country, and several in England, had made very enthusiastic offers
to me to accept a permanent pastoral obligation. For some reason or other I became more and
more convinced, however, that the divine intention in my life from this time on would be different
from any previous plan. The only reason that I declined to accept these offers was because
there was enough work for me to do outside a permanent pulpit.

My literary work became extensive in its demand upon my time, and my weekly sermons were like
a sacred obligation that I could not forego. I never found any difficulty in finding a pulpit
from which to preach every Sunday of my life. There were some ministers who preferred to sandwich
me in between regular hours of worship, if possible, so as to maintain the even course of their
way and avoid the crowds. I never could avoid them and I never wanted to. I was never nervous,
as many people are, of a crowded place--of a panic.

The sudden excitement to which we give the name of "panic" is almost always senseless and without
foundation, whether this panic be a wild rush in the money market or the stampede of an audience
down the aisles and out of the windows. My advice to my family when they are in a congregation
of people suddenly seized upon by a determination to get out right away, and to get out regardless
as to whether others are able to get out, is to sit quiet on the supposition that nothing has
happened, or is going to happen.

I have been in a large number of panics, and in all the cases nothing occurred except a demonstration
of frenzy. One night in the Academy of Music, Brooklyn, while my congregation were worshipping
there, at the time we were rebuilding one of our churches, there occurred a wild panic. There
was a sound that gave the impression that the galleries were giving way under the immense throngs
of people. I had been preaching about ten minutes when at the alarming sound aforesaid, the
whole audience rose to their feet except those who fainted. Hundreds of voices were in full
shriek. Before me I saw strong men swoon. The organist fled the platform. In an avalanche people
went down the stairs. A young man left his hat and overcoat and sweetheart, and took a leap
for life, and it is doubtful whether he ever found his hat or coat, although, I suppose, he
did recover his sweetheart. Terrorisation reigned. I shouted at the top of my voice, "Sit down!"
but it was a cricket addressing a cyclone. Had it not been that the audience for the most part
were so completely packed in, there must have been a great loss of life in the struggle. Hoping
to calm the multitude I began to sing the long meter doxology, but struck it at such a high
pitch that by the time I came to the second line I broke down. I then called to a gentleman
in the orchestra whom I knew could sing well: "Thompson, can't you sing better than that?"
whereupon he started the doxology again. By the time we came to the second line scores of voices
had joined, and by the time we came to the third line hundreds of voices enlisted, and the
last line marshalled thousands. Before the last line was reached I cried out, "As I was saying
when you interrupted me," and then went on with my sermon. The cause of the panic was the sliding
of the snow from one part of the roof of the Academy to another part. That was all. But no
one who was present that night will ever forget the horrors of the scene.

On the following Wednesday I was in the large upper room of the college at Lewisburg, Pa.;
I was about to address the students. No more people could get into this room, which was on
the second or third storey. The President of the college was introducing me when some inflammable
Christmas greens, which had some six months before been wound around a pillar in the centre
of the room, took fire, and from floor to ceiling there was a pillar of flame. Instantly the
place was turned from a jolly commencement scene, in which beauty and learning and congratulation
commingled, into a raving bedlam of fright and uproar. The panic of the previous Sunday night
in the Academy of Music, Brooklyn, had schooled me for the occasion, and I saw at a glance
that when the Christmas greens were through burning all would be well.

One of the professors said to me, "You seem to be the only composed person present." I replied,
"Yes, I got prepared for this by something which I saw last Sunday in Brooklyn."

So I give my advice: On occasions of panic, sit still; in 999 cases out of a thousand there
is nothing the matter.

I was not released from my pastorate of the Brooklyn Tabernacle by the Brooklyn Presbytery
until December, 1894, after my return from abroad. Some explanation was demanded of me by members
of the Presbytery for my decision to relinquish my pastorate, and I read the following statement
which I had carefully prepared. It concerns these pages because it is explanatory of the causes
which carried me over many crossroads, encountered everywhere in my life:

    "To the Brooklyn Presbytery--

    "Dear Brethren,--After much prayer and solemn consideration I apply
    for the dissolution of the pastoral relation existing between the
    Brooklyn Tabernacle and myself. I have only one reason for asking
    this. As you all know, we have, during my pastorate, built three
    large churches and they have been destroyed. If I remain pastor we
    must undertake the superhuman work of building a fourth church. I do
    not feel it my duty to lead in such an undertaking. The plain
    providential indications are that my work in the Brooklyn Tabernacle
    is concluded. Let me say, however, to the Presbytery, that I do not
    intend to go into idleness, but into other service quite as arduous
    as that in which I have been engaged. Expecting that my request will
    be granted I take this opportunity of expressing my love for all the
    brethren in the Presbytery with whom I have been so long and so
    pleasantly associated, and to pray for them and the churches they
    represent the best blessings that God can bestow.--Yours in the
    Gospel,

    "T. DEWITT TALMAGE."

The following resolution was then offered by the Presbytery as follows:

    "Resolved--That the Presbytery, while yielding to Dr. Talmage's
    earnest petition for the dissolution of the relationship existing
    between the Brooklyn Tabernacle and himself, expresses its deep
    regret at the necessity for such action, and wishes Dr. Talmage
    abundant success in any field in which in the providence of God he
    may be called to labour. Presbytery also expresses its profound
    sympathy with the members of the Tabernacle Church in the loss of
    their honoured and loving pastor, and cordially commends them to go
    forward in all the work of the church."

In October, 1895, I accepted the call of the First Presbyterian Church in Washington. My work
was to be an association with the Rev. Dr. Byron W. Sunderland, the President's pastor. It
was Dr. Sunderland's desire that I should do this, and although there had been some intention
in Dr. Sunderland's mind to resign his pastorate on account of ill-health I advocated a joint
pastorate. There were invitations from all parts of the world for me to preach at this time.
I had calls from churches in Melbourne, Australia; Toronto, Canada; San Francisco, California;
Louisville, Kentucky; Chicago, Illinois; New York City; Brooklyn, N.Y. London had pledged me
a larger edifice than Spurgeon's Tabernacle. All these cities, in fact, promised to build big
churches for me if I would go there to preach.

The call which came to me from Washington was as follows:

    "Rev. Dr. T. DeWitt Talmage--

    "The congregation of the First Presbyterian Church, of Washington,
    D.C., being on sufficient grounds well satisfied of the ministerial
    qualifications of you, the Rev. Dr. T. DeWitt Talmage, and having
    good hopes from our knowledge of your past eminent labours that your
    ministrations in the Gospel will be profitable to our spiritual
    interests, do earnestly, unanimously, harmoniously and heartily, not
    one voice dissenting, call and desire you to undertake the office of
    co-pastor in said congregation, promising you in the discharge of
    your duty all proper support, encouragement and obedience in the
    Lord. And that you may be free from worldly cares and avocations,
    considering your well and wide-known ability and generosity, we do
    not assume to specify any definite sum of money for your recompense,
    but we do hereby promise, pledge and oblige ourselves, to pay to you
    such sums of money and at such times as shall be mutually
    satisfactory during the time of your being and remaining in the
    relation to said church to which we do hereby call you."

On September 23, 1895, accompanying this call, I received the following dispatch from Dr. Sunderland:

    "T.D.W. Talmage, 1, South Oxford Street.

    "Meeting unanimous and enthusiastic. Call extended, rising vote, all
    on their feet in a flash. Call mailed special delivery.

    "B. SUNDERLAND."

On September 26, 1895, I accepted the call in the following letter:

    "The call signed by the elders, deacons, trustees, and members of
    the congregation of the First Presbyterian Church of Washington is
    before me. The statement contained in that call that you 'do
    earnestly, unanimously, harmoniously and heartily, not one voice
    dissenting,' desire me to become co-pastor in your great and
    historical church has distinctly impressed me. With the same
    heartiness I now declare my acceptance of the call. All of my
    energies of body, mind, and soul shall be enlisted in your Christian
    service. I will preach my first sermon Sabbath evening, October 27."

Washington was always a beautiful city to me, the climate in winter is delightful. President
Cleveland was a personal friend, as were many of the public men, and I regarded my call to
Washington as a national opportunity. It had been my custom in the past, when I was very tired
from overwork, to visit Washington for two or three days, stopping at one of the hotels, to
get a thorough rest. For a long time I was really undecided what to do, I had so many invitations
to take up my home and life work in different cities. While preaching was to be the main work
for the rest of my life, my arrangements were so understood by my church in Washington that
I could continue my lecture engagements.

I delivered a farewell sermon before leaving for Washington, at the Lafayette Avenue Presbyterian
Church, in Brooklyn, before an audience of five thousand people. My text was 2 Samuel xii.
23: "I shall go to Him."

I still recall the occasion as one of deep feeling--a difficult hour of self-control. I could
not stop the flow of tears that came with the closing paragraph. The words are merely the outward
sign of my inner feelings:

    "Farewell, dear friends. I could wish that in this last interview I
    might find you all the sons and daughters of the Mighty. Why not
    cross the line this hour, out of the world into the kingdom of God?
    I have lived in peace with all of you. There is not among all the
    hundreds of thousands of people of this city one person with whom
    I could not shake hands heartily and wish him all the happiness for
    this world and the next. If I have wronged anyone let him appear at
    the close of this service, and I will ask his forgiveness before I
    go. Will it not be glorious to meet again in our Father's house,
    where the word goodbye shall never be spoken? How much we shall then
    have to talk over of earthly vicissitudes! Farewell! A hearty,
    loving, hopeful, Christian farewell!"

I was installed in the First Presbyterian Church in Washington on October 23, 1895. My first
sermon in the new pulpit in Washington was preached to a crowded church, with an overflow of
over three thousand persons in the street outside. The text of my sermon was, "All Heaven is
looking on."

In a few days, by exchange of my Brooklyn property, I had obtained the house 1402 Massachusetts
Avenue, in Washington, for my home. It had at one time been the Spanish Legation, and was in
a delightful part of the city. Shortly after my arrival in Washington I received my first introduction
at the White House, with my daughters, to Mrs. Cleveland. Our reception was cordial and gracious
in the extreme. I had engaged a suite of rooms at the Arlington Hotel for a year. We remained
there till our lease was up before entering our new home. There was a desire among members
of the congregation of the First Presbyterian Church to have me preach at the morning as well
as the evening services. With three ministers attached to one church there was some difficulty
in the arrangement of the sermons. Eventually it was decided that I should preach morning and
evening.

In 1896 I made an extensive lecturing tour, in which I discussed my impressions of the world
trip I had recently made.

The world was getting better in spite of contrasting opinions from men who had thought about
it. God never launched a failure.

In 1897 I made an appeal for aid for the famine in India. I always believed it was possible
to evangelise India.

My life in Washington was not different from its former course. I had known many prominent
people of this country, and some of the great men of other lands.

I had known all the Presidents of the United States since Buchanan. I had known Mr. Gladstone,
all the more prominent men in the bishoprics, and in high commercial, financial and religious
position. I had been presented to royalty in more than one country.

Legislatures in the North and South have adjourned to give me reception. The Earl of Kintore,
a Scottish peer, entertained us at his house in London in 1879. I found his family delightful
Christian people, and the Countess and their daughters are very lovely. The Earl presided at
two of my meetings. He took me to see some of his midnight charities--one of them called the
"House of Lords" and the other the "House of Commons," both of them asylums for old and helpless
men. We parted about two o'clock in the morning in the streets of London. As we bade each other
good-bye he said, "Send me a stick of American wood and I will send you a stick." His arrived
in America, and is now in my possession, a shepherd's crook; but before the cane I purchased
for him reached Scotland the good Earl had departed this life. I was not surprised to hear
of his decease. I said to my wife in London, "We will never see the Earl again in this world.
He is ripe for Heaven, and will soon be taken." He attended the House of Lords during the week,
and almost every Sabbath preached in some chapel or church.

I shall not forget the exciting night I met him. I was getting out of a carriage at the door
of a church in London where I was to lecture when a ruffian struck at me, crying, "He that
believeth not shall be damned." The scoundrel's blow would have demolished me but for the fact
that a bystander put out his arm and arrested the blow. From that scene I was ushered into
the ante-room of the church where the Earl of Kintore was awaiting my arrival. From that hour
we formed a friendship. He had been a continuous reader of my sermons, and that fact made an
introduction easy. I have from him five or six letters.

Lord and Lady Aberdeen had us at their house in London in the summer of 1892. Most gracious
and delightful people they are. I was to speak at Haddo House, their estate in Scotland, at
a great philanthropic meeting, but I was detained in St. Petersburg, Russia, by an invitation
of the Emperor, and could not get to Scotland in time. Glad am I that the Earl is coming to
Canada to be Governor-General. He and the Countess will do Canada a mighty good. They are on
the side of God, and righteousness, and the Church. Since his appointment--for he intimated
at Aberdeen, Scotland, when he called upon me, that he was to have an important appointment--I
have had opportunity to say plauditory things of them in vast assemblages in Ottawa, Montreal,
Toronto, London and Grimsby Park.

In a scrap book in which I put down, hurriedly, perhaps, but accurately, my impressions of
various visits to the White House during my four years pastorate in Washington, I find some
notes that may be interesting. I transmit them to the printed page exactly as I find them written
on paper:

    "May 1, 1896. Had a long talk this afternoon with Mrs. Cleveland at
    Woodley. I always knew she was very attractive, but never knew how
    wide her information was on all subjects. She had her three children
    brought in, and the two elder ones sang Easter songs for me. Mrs.
    Cleveland impresses me as a consecrated Christian mother. She passes
    much of her time with her children, and seems more interested in her
    family than in anything else. The first lady of the land, she is
    universally admired. I took tea with her and we talked over many
    subjects. She told me that she had joined the church at fourteen
    years of age. Only two joined the church that day, a man of eighty
    years old and herself. She was baptised then, not having been
    baptised in infancy. She said she was glad she had not been baptised
    before because she preferred to remember her baptism.

    "She said she did not like the great crowds attending the church
    then, because she did not like to be stared at as the President's
    wife. But I told her she would get used to that after a while. She
    said she did not mind being stared at on secular occasions, but
    objected to it at religious service. She said she had long ago
    ceased taking the Holy Communion at our church because of the fact
    that spectators on that day seemed peculiarly anxious to see how she
    looked at the Communion.

    "My first meeting with Mrs. Cleveland was just after her marriage.
    She was at the depot, in her carriage, to see Miss Rose Cleveland,
    the President's sister, off on the train. Dr. Sunderland introduced
    me at that time, when I was just visiting Washington. Mrs.
    Cleveland invited me to take a seat in her carriage. I accepted the
    invitation, and we sat there some time talking about various things.
    I saw, as everyone sees who converses with her, that she is a very
    attractive person, though brilliantly attired, unaffected in her
    manner as any mountain lass.

    "March 3, 1897. Made my last call this afternoon on Mrs. Cleveland.
    Found her amid a group of distinguished ladies, and unhappy at the
    thought of leaving the White House, which had been her home off and
    on for nearly eight years. Her children have already gone to
    Princeton, which is to be her new home. She is the same beautiful,
    unaffected, and intelligent woman that she has always been since I
    formed her acquaintance. She is an inspiration to anyone who
    preaches, because she is such an intense listener. Her going from
    our church here will be a great loss. It is wonderful that a woman
    so much applauded and admired should not have been somewhat spoiled.
    More complimentary things have been said of her than of any living
    woman. She invited me to her home in Princeton, but I do not expect
    ever to get there. Our pleasant acquaintance seems to have come to
    an end. Washington society will miss this queen of amiability and
    loveliness.

    "February 4, 1897. Had one of my talks with President Cleveland.

    "As I congratulated him on his coming relief from the duties of his
    absorbing office, he said:

    "'Yes! I am glad of it; but there are so many things I wanted to
    accomplish which have not been accomplished.'

    "Then he went into extended remarks about the failure of the Senate
    to ratify the Arbitration plan. He said that there had been much
    work and anxiety in that movement that had never come to the
    surface; how they had waited for cablegrams, and how at the same
    time, although he had not expressed it, he had a presentiment that
    through the inaction of the Senate the splendid plan for the
    pacification of the world's controversies would be a failure.

    "He dwelt much upon the Cuban embroglio, and said that he had told
    the Committee on Foreign Relations that if they waited until spring
    they had better declare war, but that he would never be responsible
    for such a calamity.

    "He said that he had chosen Princeton for his residence because he
    would find there less social obligation and less demand upon his
    financial resources than in a larger place. He said that in all
    matters of national as well as individual importance it was a
    consolation to him to know that there was an overwhelming
    Providence. When I congratulated him upon his continuous good
    health, notwithstanding the strain upon him for the eight years of
    his past and present administration, he said:

    "'Yes! I am a wonder to myself. The gout that used to distract me is
    almost cured, and I am in better health than when I entered office.'

    "He accounted for his good health by the fact that he had
    occasionally taken an outing of a few days on hunting expeditions.

    "I said to him, 'Yes! You cannot think of matters of State while out
    shooting ducks.'

    "He answered:

    "'No, I cannot, except when the hunting is poor and the ducks do not
    appear.'

    "May 21, 1896. This morning when I entered President Cleveland's
    room at the White House, he said: 'Good morning, I have been
    thinking of you this morning.'

    "The fact is he had under consideration the recall of a minister
    plenipotentiary from a European Government. I had an opportunity of
    saying something about a gentleman who was proposed as a substitute
    for the foreign embassy, and the President said my conversation with
    him had given him a new idea about the whole affair, and I think it
    kept the President from making a mistake that might have involved
    our Government in some entanglement with another nation.

    "The President read me a long letter that he had received on the
    subject. I felt that my call had been providential, although I went
    to see him merely to say good-bye before he went away on his usual
    summer trip to Gray Gables, Buzzards Bay, Massachusetts.

    "The President is in excellent health although he says he much needs
    an outing. He is very fond of his children, and seemed delighted to
    hear of the good time I had with them at Woodley. When I told how
    Ruth and Esther sang for me he said he could not stand hearing them
    sing, as it was so touching it made him cry. I told him how the
    baby, Marian, looked at me very soberly and scrutinisingly as long
    as I held her in my arms, but when I handed her to her mother, the
    baby, feeling herself very safe, put out her hands to me and wanted
    to play. But what a season of work and anxiety it had been to the
    President, important question after question to be settled.

    "March 1, 1897. I have this afternoon made my last call on President
    Cleveland. With Dr. Sunderland and the officers of our church I went
    to the White House to bid our retiring President goodbye.
    Notwithstanding appointments he had made, Thurber, his private
    secretary, informed us that the President could not see us because
    of a sudden attack of rheumatism. But after Thurber had gone into
    the President's room, he returned saying that the President would
    see Dr. Sunderland and myself. Indeed, afterwards, he saw all our
    church officers. But he could not move from his chair. His doctor
    had told him that if he put his foot to the floor he would not be
    able to attend the inauguration of Major McKinley on the following
    Thursday.

    "After Dr. Sunderland and the officers of the church had shaken
    hands for departure, the President said to me:

    "'Doctor, remain, I want to see you.'

    "The door closed, he asked me if I had followed the Chinese
    Immigration Bill that was then under consideration. We discussed it
    fully. The President read to me the veto which he was writing. He
    stated to me his objection to the bill. Our conversation was
    intimate, but somewhat saddened by the thought that perhaps we might
    not meet again. With an invitation to come and see him at Princeton,
    we parted.

    "During a conversation of an earlier period at the White House, I
    congratulated the President upon his improved appearance since
    returning from one of his hunting expeditions.

    "'Oh! Yes!' he said, 'I cannot get daily exercise in Washington. It
    is impossible, so I am compelled to take these occasional outings. I
    approach the city on my return with a feeling that work must be
    pulled down over me, like a nightcap,' and as he said this he made
    the motion as of someone putting on a cap over his head.

    "I congratulated him on the effect of his proclamation on the Monroe
    Doctrine as it would set a precedent, and really meant peace. He
    agreed with me, saying:

    "'Yes, but they blame me very much for the excitement I have caused
    in business circles, and the failures consequent. But no one failed
    who was doing a legitimate business, only those collapsed who were
    engaged in unwarranted speculations. I wish more of those people
    would fail.'

    "'Mr. President,' I said, 'I do not want to pry into State secrets,
    but I would like to know how many ducks you did shoot?' He laughed,
    and said, 'Eleven. The papers said thirteen. Indeed, the country
    papers before I began to shoot said I had shot a hundred and
    twenty.' I spoke of the brightness and beauty of his children again.
    I remarked that the youngest one, then four months old, had the
    intelligence of a child a year old, and the President said:

    "'Yes, she is a great pleasure to us, and seems to know everything.'

    "March 3, 1896. Started from Washington for the great Home
    Missionary meeting to be held in Carnegie Hall, New York, President
    Cleveland to preside. We left on the eleven o'clock train, by
    Pennsylvania railroad. I did not go to the President's private car
    until we had been some distance on our way, although he told me when
    I went in that he had looked for me at the depot, that I might as
    well have been in his car all the way. No one was with him except
    Mrs. Cleveland and his private secretary, Mr. Thurber, who is also
    one of my church. We had an uninterrupted conversation. The servants
    and guards were at the front end of the car, and we were at the
    rear.

    "I asked the President if he found it possible to throw off the
    cares of office for a while. He laughed, and said:

    "'They call a trip of this kind a vacation;' then with a countenance
    of sudden gravity he added: 'We no sooner get through one great
    question than another comes.' It made me think of the tension on
    the President's mind at that time. There was the Venezuelan
    question. There were suggestions of war with England, and then there
    was the Cuban matter with suggestions of war with Spain, and all the
    time the overshadowing financial questions.

    "During our conversation the President referred to the conditions
    ever and anon inflicted upon him by newspaper misrepresentations,
    particularly those of inebriety, of domestic quarrels, of turning
    Mrs. Cleveland out of doors at night so that she had to flee for
    refuge to the house of Dr. Sunderland, my pastoral associate,
    passing the night there; and then the reports that his children were
    deaf and dumb, or imbecile, when he knew I had seen them and
    considered them the brightest and healthiest children I had known.

    "All these attacks and falsehoods concerning the President and his
    family I saw hurt him as deeply as they would any of us, but he is
    in a position which does not allow him to make reply. I assured him
    that he was only in the line of misrepresentation that had assailed
    all the Presidents, George Washington more violently than himself,
    and that the words cynicism, jealousy, political hatred, and
    diabolism in general would account for all. I do think, however,
    that the factories of scandal had been particularly busy with our
    beloved President. They were running on extra time.

    "If I were asked who among the mighty men at Washington has most
    impressed me with elements of power I would say Grover Cleveland.

    "June 25, 1896. It seems now that Major McKinley, of Canton, Ohio,
    will be elected President of the United States. I was in Canton
    about three weeks ago and called at Major McKinley's house. He was
    just starting from his home to call on me. He presided at the first
    lecture I delivered at Canton in 1871. On my recent visit he
    recalled all the circumstances of that lecture, remembering that he
    went to my room afterwards in the hotel, and had a long talk with
    me, which he said made a deep impression upon him.

    "My visit at Canton three weeks ago was to lecture. Major McKinley
    attended and came upon the platform afterwards to congratulate me.
    He is a Christian man and as genial and lovable a man as I ever
    met."

    "September 21, 1897. Had a most delightful interview with President
    McKinley in the White House.

    "I congratulated him on the peaceful opening of his administration.
    He said:

    "'Yes! I hope it is not the calm before a storm.'

    "He said that during the last six weeks at least a half million of
    people had passed before him, and they all gave signs of their
    encouragement. Especially, he said, the women and children looked
    and acted as though they expected better times.

    "The President looked uncommonly well. I told him that during the
    past summer I had travelled in many of the states, and that from the
    people everywhere I gathered hopeful feelings. I told him that they
    were expecting great prosperity would come to the country through
    his administration."

Of course these are merely scraps torn from old note-books, but I cannot help commending the
value of first impressions, of the first-hand reports, which are made in this way. There is
in the unadorned picture of any incident in the past a sort of hallowed character that no ornate
frame can improve.

So the pages of these recollections are but a string of impressions torn from old note-books
and diaries.

       *       *       *       *       *

From scrap books and other sources, some other person may set up the last milestones of my
journey through life, and think other things of enough importance to add to the furlongs I
have already travelled; and I give permission to add that biography to this autobiography.

A BIOGRAPHICAL SKETCH OF DR. TALMAGE'S LAST MILESTONES

BY

MRS. T. DEWITT TALMAGE

1898-1902

THE LAST MILESTONES

BY

MRS. T. DEWITT TALMAGE

1898-1902

The wishes of Doctor Talmage reign paramount with me; otherwise I should not dare to add these
imperfect memoirs to the finished and eloquent, yet simple, narration of his life-work which
has just charmed the reader from his own graphic pen. Dr. Talmage did not consider his autobiography
of vital importance to posterity; his chief concern was for his sermons and other voluminous
writings. The intimate things of his life he held too sacred for public view, and he shrank
from any intrusion thereupon. His autobiography, therefore, was a concession to his family,
his friends, and an admiring public.

So many people all over the world have paid homage to his personality, and to his remarkable
influence, that it seemed evident not only to us but to many others, that his own recollections
would give abiding pleasure. I remember when we were travelling to Washington after our marriage,
many men of prominence, who were on the Congressional Limited, said to Dr. Talmage: "Doctor,
why don't you write your memoirs? They would be especially interesting because you have bridged
two centuries in your life." Then, turning to me, they urged me to use my influence over him.
Later on I did so, placing over his desk as a reminder, in big letters, the one word--"Autobiography."

His celebrity was something so unique, and so widespread, that it is difficult to write of
it under the spell which still surrounds his memory. Many still remember seeing and feeling
almost with awe the tremendous grasp of success which Dr. Talmage had all his life. A reminiscence
of my girlhood will be pardoned: My father was his great admirer many years before I ever met
the Doctor. Whenever I went with my father from my home in Pittsburg on a visit to New York,
I was taken over to Brooklyn every Sunday morning, unwillingly I must confess, to hear Dr.
Talmage. At that time there were other things which I found more pleasant, for I had many young
friends to visit and to entertain. However, my father's wishes were always uppermost with me,
and his admiration of the great preacher inspired me also with reverence. The Doctor soon became
one of the great men of my life.

Dr. Talmage was among the builders of his century--a watchman of his period. He was a man of
philanthropy and enterprise. His popularity was world-wide; his extraordinary power was exerted
over people of all classes and conditions of life. His broad human intellectuality, his constant
good humour, his indomitable energy, threw a glamour about him. His happy laughter, which attested
the deep peace of his heart, rang everywhere, through his home, in social meetings with his
friends, in casual encounters even with strangers.

No one who ever knew the Doctor thought of him as an old man. He himself almost believed that
he would live for ever. "Barring an accident," he often said, "I shall live for ever." The
frankness and buoyancy of his spirit were like youth: were the enchantment of his personality.
Even to-day, when memories begin to grow cold in the shadow of his tomb, I am constantly reminded
by those who remember him of the strange magical eternity that was in him. He had been so active
and busy through all the years of his life, keeping pace with each one in its seemingly increasing
speed, that his heart remained ever young, living in the glory of things that were present,
searching with eager vigour the horizon of the future.

Wherever I am, whether in this country or in Europe, but especially in England, Dr. Talmage's
name still brings me remembrance of his distinguished career from the men of prominence who
knew him. They come to me and tell me about him with unabated affection for his memory. He
attracted people by a kind of magnetism, and held them afterwards with ties of deep friendship
and respect. The standards of his youth were the standards of his whole life.

My appreciation of Dr. Talmage in these printed pages may not be wholly in harmony with his
ideas of the privacy of his home life; but it is difficult to think of him at all in any mood
less intimately reverent.

As I look over the scrapbook, my scrapbook (as he and I always called it), I feel the reserve
about it that he himself did. My share in the Doctor's life, however, belongs to these last
years of his distinguished career, and I am a contributor by special privilege.

I met him first at East Hampton, Long Island, in the summer of 1896, when I was visiting friends.
The other day, while in reminiscent struggle with my scrapbook, I was visited by an old friend
of Dr. Talmage, who recalled the following incident:

"It was Dr. Talmage's custom," he said, "to take long drives out into the country round about
Washington. Sometimes he sent for me to drive with him. One afternoon I received a specially
urgent call to be sure and drive with him that day, because he had something of great importance
to discuss with me. On our way back, towards evening, I asked him what it was. He said, 'I
work hard, very hard. Sometimes I come back to my home tired, very tired--lonely. I open my
door and the house is dark, silent. The young folks are out somewhere and there is no one to
talk to.' Then he became silent himself. I said to him: 'Have you any one in mind whom you
would like to talk to?' 'I have,' he said positively. 'If so,' I said, 'go to her at once and
tell her so.' 'I will,' he replied briskly--and the next night he went to Pittsburg."

We were married in January, 1898.

The first reception given in our home on Massachusetts Avenue was in the nature of a greeting
between the Doctor's friends and myself. His own interest in the social side of things in Washington
was an agreeable interruption rather than a part of his own activities. His friends were men
and women from every highway and byway of the world. My father, a man of unusual intellectual
breadth and heart, had been my companion of many years, so that I was, to some degree, accustomed
to mature conceptions of people and affairs. But the busy whirl in the life of a celebrity
was entirely new.

It was soon quite evident that Dr. Talmage relied upon me for the discretionary duties of a
man besieged by all sorts of demands. From the first I feared that Dr. Talmage was over-taxing
his strength, undiminished though it was at a time when most men begin to relinquish their
burdens. Therefore, I entered eagerly into my new duties of relieving the strain he himself
did not realise.

His was a full and ample life devoted to the gospel of cheerfulness; and to me, I think, was
given the best part of it--the autumn. When I knew him he had already impressed the wide world
of his hearers with his striking originality of thought and style. He had already established
a form of preaching that was known by his name--Talmagic. Its character was the man himself,
broad, brilliant, picturesque, keen with divine and human facts, told simply, always with an
uplift of spiritual beauty.

In March, 1898, Dr. Talmage was called West for lecture engagements, and I went with him. What
strange and delightful events that spring tour brought into my life! The Doctor lectured every
night in what was to me some new and undiscovered country. We were always going to an hotel,
to a train, to an opera house, to another hotel, another train, another opera house. Our experiences
were not less exciting than the trials of one-night stands. I had never travelled before without
a civilised quota of trunks; but the Doctor would have been overwhelmed with them in the rush
to keep his engagements. So we had to be content with our bags. When we were not studying time
tables the Doctor was striding across the land, his Bible under his arm, myself in gasping
haste at his side. What primitive hotels we encountered; what antiquated trains we had to take!
Frequently a milk train was the only means of reaching our destination, and, alas! a milk train
always leaves at the trying hour of 4 a.m. Once we had to ride on a special engine; and frequently
the caboose of a freight train served our desperate purpose. I began to understand something
of the loneliness of the Doctor's life in experiences like these.

I insisted upon sitting in the front row at every one of Dr. Talmage's lectures, which I soon
knew by heart. He used to laugh when I would repeat certain parts of them to him.

Then he would beg me to stay away that I might not be bored by listening to the same thing
over again. I would not have missed one of his lectures for the world. These were the great
moments of his life; the combined resources of his character came to the surface whenever he
went into the pulpit or on to the platform. These were the moments that inspired his life,
that gave it an ever-increasing vigour of human and divine perception. The enthusiasm of his
reception by the crowds in these theatres keyed me up so that each new audience was a new pleasure.
There were no preliminaries to his lectures. Frequently he had time only to drop his hat and
step on to the stage as he had come from the train. After every lecture it was his custom to
shake hands with hundreds of people who came up to the platform. This was very exhausting,
but these were to him the moments of fruition--the spiritual harvest of the Christian seeds
he had scattered over the earth. They were wonderful scenes, dramatic in their earnestness,
remarkable in the evidence they brought out of his universal influence upon the hearts of men
and women. Everywhere the same testimony prevailed:

"You saved my father, God bless you!" "You saved my brother, thank God!" "You made a good woman
of me!" "You gave me my first start in life!" In these words they told him their gratitude,
as they grasped his hand.

On these occasions the Doctor's face was wonderful to see as, with the silent pressure of his
hand, he looked into the eyes that were filled with tears. Sometimes people would come to me
and whisper the same truths about him, and when I would tell him, his answer was characteristic:
"Eleanor, this is what gives me strength. It is worth living to hear people tell me these things."

Dr. Talmage's instincts were big, evangelical impulses. I often used to urge him to relinquish
his pastorate; but he would reply that after all the Church was his candlestick; that he must
have a place to hold his candle while he preached to a world of all nations. Yet he often said
he would rather have been an unfettered evangelist, bent on saving the world, than the pastor
of any one flock or church. To preach to the people was the breath of his life. It was the
restless energy of his soul that kept him for ever young. He would put all his strength into
every sermon he preached, and every lecture he delivered.

Dr. Talmage had absolutely no personal vanity. He was a man absorbed in ideas, indifferent
to appearances. He lived in the opportunities of his heart and mind to help others; although
he had been one of the most tried of men, he had never spared himself to help others. He never
lost faith in anyone. There were many shrewd enough to realise this characteristic in him,
who would put a finger on his heart and draw out of him all he had to give.

On one occasion we were travelling through Iowa, when a big snow storm made it evident that
we could not make connections to meet an engagement he had made to lecture that evening in
Marietta, Ohio. He had just said to me that after all he was glad, because he was very tired
and needed the rest. Will Carleton was on the same train, bound for Zanesville, Ohio, to give
a lecture that night. He was very much afraid that he, too, would miss his engagement. He asked
the Doctor to telegraph to the railroad officials to hold the limited at Chicago Junction,
which the Doctor did. The result was that we were whisked in a carriage across Chicago and
whirled on a special car to the junction, where the limited was held for us, much to the disgust
of the other passengers.

He saw the mercy of God in every calamity, the beauty of faith in Him in every mood of earth
or sky. One spring day we were sitting in the room of a friend's house. There were flowers
in the room, and Dr. Talmage loved these children of nature. He always said that flowers were
appropriate for all occasions. Some one said to him, "Doctor, how have you kept your faith
in people, your sweet interpretation of human nature, in spite of the injustice you have sometimes
been shown?" Looking at a great bunch of sweet peas on the table, he said: "Many years ago
I learned not to care what the world said of me so long as I myself knew I was right and fair,
and how can one help but believe when the good God above us makes such beautiful things as
these flowers?"

His creed, as I learned it, was perfect faith, and the universal commands of human nature to
live and let live. Although I was destined to share less than five years of his life, there
was in the whole of it no chapter or incident with which he did not acquaint me. He was not
a man of theory. No one could live near him without awe of his genius.

We returned to Washington after this spring lecturing tour, where the Doctor resumed his preaching
twice on Sunday, and his mid-week lecture, till June. Then, according to Dr. Talmage's custom,
we went to Saratoga for a few weeks before the crowds came for the season. The Doctor found
the Saratoga Springs beneficial and made it a rule to go there for a time each summer. On July
3, 1898, we started for the Pacific coast on what Dr. Talmage called a summer vacation. On
his desk there was always a great number of invitations to preach and lecture awaiting his
acknowledgment or refusal. The greatest problem of the last years of his life was how to find
time for all the things he was asked to do and wanted to do. In vain I tried to make him conform
to the usual plans of a summer outing. He asked me if he might take a "few lectures" on our
route to California, and he did, but he always managed to slip in a few extra ones without
my knowledge. When I would protest about these additional engagements he would say that the
people wanted to hear him, that they were new people he had never seen, which meant more to
him than anything else; then, of course, I had to yield my judgment.

It had been Dr. Talmage's original plan to go to Europe during this first summer of our marriage,
but the outbreak of the Spanish war made him afraid he might not be able to get back in time
for his church work in October. Although ostensibly this was a vacation trip, it was so only
in the spirit and gaiety of the Doctor's moods. Three times a week Dr. Talmage lectured, and
preached once, sometimes twice, every Sunday. From Cincinnati westward to Denver, we zigzagged
over the country, keeping in constant pursuit of the Doctor's engagements. No argument on our
part could alter these working plans which my husband had made before we left Washington. He
was so happy, however, in the midst of his energies, that we forgot the exertion of his labours.

The three places where, by agreeable lapses, Dr. Talmage really enjoyed a rest, were Colorado
Springs, the Yellowstone Park, and Coronado Beach in California. Aside from these points, we
were travelling incessantly in the Doctor's reflected glory, which was our vacation, but by
no means his. While at Colorado Springs, where we stayed two weeks, Dr. Talmage preached once,
and once in Denver, but he did not lecture.

In Salt Lake City the Doctor preached in the Tabernacle, the throne room of polygamy, that
he had so often attacked in previous years. That was a remarkable feature of these last milestones
of his life, that all conflicts were forgotten in a universal acknowledgment of his evangelism.
His grasp of every subject was always close to the hearts of others, and it was instinctive,
not studied.

During our visit in the West, he talked much of the effect of the Spanish war, regarding our
victory in Cuba and the Philippines as an advance to civilisation.

We entered the Yellowstone Park at Minado and drove through the geyser country. We stopped
at Dwelly's, a little log-cabin famous to all travellers, just before entering the park. On
leaving there, we had been told that there were occasional hold-ups of parties travelling in
private vehicles, as we were. The following day, while passing along a lonely road, a man suddenly
leaped from the bushes and seized the bridles of the horses. The Doctor appeared to be terribly
frightened, and we were all very much excited when we saw that the driver had missed his aim
when he fired at the bandit. The robber was of the appearance approved in dime novels; he wore
a sacking over his head with eye-holes cut in it through which he could see, and looked in
all other respects a disreputable cut-throat. Just as we were about to surrender our jewels
and money, Dr. Talmage confessed that he had arranged the hold-up for our benefit, and that
it was a practical joke of his. He was always full of mischief, and took delight in surprising
people.

On Sunday Dr. Talmage preached in the parlours of the Fountain Hotel. The rooms were crowded
with the soldiers who were stationed in the park. The Doctor's sermon was on garrison duty;
he said afterwards that he found it extremely difficult to talk there because the rooms were
small, and the people were too close to him. We paid a visit to Mr. Henderson, who was an official
of the Yellowstone Park at that time, and whose brother was Speaker of the House in Washington.
He begged Dr. Talmage to use his influence with members of Congress to oppose a project which
had been started, to build a trolley line through the Yellowstone Park. The Doctor promised
to do so, and I think the trolley line has not been built. We left the Yellowstone Park, at
Cinabar, and went direct to Seattle. During our stay in Seattle the whole town was excited
one morning by the arrival of a ship from the Klondike, that region of golden romance and painful
reality. The Doctor and I went down to the wharf to see the great ship disembark these gold-diggers;
but for several hours the four hundred passengers had been detained on board because $24,000
in gold dust, carried by two miners, had been stolen; and though a search had been instituted,
to which everyone had been compelled to submit, no clue to the thief had been found. Dr. Talmage
was profoundly impressed by the misfortune of these two men, who after months of exposure and
fatigue were now obliged to walk ashore penniless. A number of these four hundred passengers
had brought back an aggregate of about $4,000,000 from the Klondike; but many among them had
brought back only disappointment, and their haggard faces were pitiful to see; indeed, the
Doctor told me that out of the thousands who went fortune hunting to Alaska, only about 3 per
cent. came back richer than when they started.

In the early part of September Dr. Talmage lectured in San Francisco on International Policies.
His admiration of the Czar's manifesto for disarmament of the nations was unbounded, and he
emphasised it whenever he appeared in public. He prophesied the millennium as if he looked
forward to personal experiences of it; this came from his remarkable confidence in the life
forces nature had given him. At Coronado Beach we determined upon a rest for two weeks; but
the Doctor could in no wise be induced to forego his lecture at San Diego. A pleasant visit
to Los Angeles was followed by a delightful sojourn of a few days at Santa Barbara, the floral
paradise of the Golden Coast; here the Doctor was met at the station by carriages, and we were
literally smothered in flowers; even our rooms in the hotel were banked high with roses. In
the afternoon we accepted an invitation to drive through Santa Barbara, hoping against hope
that we might do so inconspicuously. But the same flower-laden carriages came for us, and we
were driven through the city like a miniature flower parade. Much to the Doctor's regret he
was followed about like a circus; but his courtesy never failed.

On our route East we again stopped in San Francisco. An announcement had been made that Dr.
Talmage would preach for the Sunday evening service at Calvary Presbyterian Church, on the
corner of Powell and Geary Streets. Never had I seen such a crowd before. As we made our way
to the church, we found the adjoining streets packed so solidly with people that we had to
call a policeman to make an opening for us. Once inside, we saw the church rapidly filling,
till at last, as a means of protection, the doors were locked against the surging crowd. But
Dr. Talmage had scarcely begun his sermon when the doors were literally broken down by the
crowd outside. Quick to see the danger the Doctor sent out word to the people that he would
speak in Union Square immediately after the church service. This had the desired effect, and
the great crowd waited patiently for him a block away till nine o'clock. It was rather a raw
evening because of a fog that had come up from the sea, and for this reason the Doctor asked
permission to keep his hat on while he talked from the band stand. It was the first time I
ever heard him speak out of doors, and I was amazed to hear how clearly every word travelled,
and with what precision his voice carried the exact effect. It was a coincidence that the theme
of his sermon should have been, "There is plenty of room in Heaven."

The tremendous enthusiasm, the almost worshipful interest with which he was received, could
easily have spoiled any man, but with Dr. Talmage such an ovation as we had witnessed seemed
only to intensify the simplicity of his character. He lost his identity in the elements of
inspiration, and when he had finished preaching it was not to himself but to the power that
had been given him, he gave all the credit of his influence. He was always simple, direct,
unpretentious.

During a short stay in Chicago Dr. Talmage preached in his son's church, and then hurried home
to begin his duties in his own church. Duty was the Doctor's master key; with it he locked
himself away from the mediocre, and unlocked his way to ultimate freedom of religious impulse.
For a long while he had formed a habit of preaching without recompense, as he would have desired
to do all his life, because he felt that the power of preaching was a gift from God, a trust
to be transmitted without cost to the people. He never missed preaching on Sunday, paying his
own expenses to whatever pulpit he was invited to occupy. There were so many invitations that
he was usually able to choose. It was this conviction that led to his ultimate resignation
from his church in Washington, that he might be free to expound the Scriptures wherever he was.

He was always so happy it was hard to believe that he was overworking; yet I feared his labour
of love would end in exhaustion and possible illness. Everything in the world was beautiful
to him, and yet beauty was not a matter of externals with him. It radiated from him, even when
it was not about him. Especially was this noticeable when we were away together on one of his
short lecturing trips. At these times we were quite alone, and then, without interruptions,
in the sequestered domain of some country hotel he would admit me into the wonderland of his
inner hopes, his plans for the future, his ideas of life and people and happiness. Once we
were staying in one of these country hotels obviously pretentious, but very uncomfortable--the
sort of hotel where the walls of the room oppress you, and the furniture astonishes you, and
there are no private baths. He sat down in the largest chair, literally beaming with delight.

"Isn't it beautiful?" he said; "now I take my home with me; before I used to be so much alone.
Now I have someone to talk to."

There was nothing comparative in his happiness; everything was made perfect for him by the
simplicity of his appreciation. I used to look forward to these trips as one might look forward
to an excursion into some new and unexpected transport of existence, for he always had new
wonders of heart and mind to reveal in these obscure byways we explored together. They were
all too short, and yet too full for time to record them in a diary. These were the hours that
one puts away in the secret chamber of unwritten and untold feeling. I turn again to the pages
of our scrap book, as one turns to the dictionary, for reserve of language.

In November of 1898 I find there a clipping that reminds me of the day Dr. Talmage and I spent
at the home of Senator Faulkner, in Martinsburg, West Virginia. The Anglo-American Commission
was in session in Washington then, and during the following winter. The Joint High Commission
was the official title, and we were invited by Senator Faulkner with these men to get a glimpse
of that rare Americanism known the world over as Southern hospitality. The foreign members
of the Commission were Lord Herschel, Sir Wilfred Laurier, Sir Louis Davis, and Sir Richard
Cartwright. Our host was one of the Americans on the Commission.

We left Washington about noon, lunched on the train, and reached the old ancestral home in
a snow storm. All of the available carriages and carry-alls were at our disposal, however,
and we were quickly driven to the warm fireside of a true Southerner, who, more than any other
kind of man, knows how to brand the word "Home" upon your memory. We dined with true Southern
sumptuousness. Never shall I forget the resigned and comfortable expression of that little
roast pig as it was laid before us. To the Englishmen it was a rare chance to understand the
cordial relations between England and America, in an atmosphere of Colonial splendour. The
house itself has not undergone any change since it was built; it stands a complete example
of an old ancestral estate. As we were leaving, our host insisted that no friend should leave
his house without tasting the best egg-nog ever made in Virginia. The doctor and I drove to
the station in a carriage with Lord Herschel. He was a man of great reserve and high breeding.
On the way he showed us a letter that he had just received from his daughter, a little girl
in England, telling him to be sure and come home for the Christmas holidays, and not to let
those rich Americans keep him away.

This was the beginning of a series of dinners given by members of the Joint High Commission
in Washington during the winter, to which we were often invited. A few months later Lord Herschel
died in Washington. Dr. Talmage was almost the last man to see him alive. He called at his
hotel to invite him to stay at his house, but he was then too ill to be moved.

During the early Fall of 1898 the Doctor lectured at Annapolis. It was his first visit to the
old historic town, and he was received with all the honour of the place. We were the guests
of Governor Lowndes at the executive mansion, where we were entertained in the evening at dinner.
Just before the Christmas holidays, Dr. Talmage made a short lecturing trip into Canada, and
I went with him; it was my privilege to accompany him everywhere, even for a brief journey
of a day.

In Montreal, while sitting in a box with some Canadian friends, during one of the Doctor's
lectures, they told me how deep was the affection and regard for him in England.

"Wait till you see how the English people receive him," they said; "you will be surprised at
the hold that he has on them over there." The following year I went to England with him, and
experienced with pride and pleasure the truth of what they had said.

The end of our first year together seemed to be only the prelude to a long lifetime of companionship
and happiness, without age, without sorrow, without discord.

THE SECOND MILESTONE

1899-1900

In his study no wasted hours ever entered. With the exception of the stenographer and his immediate
family no one was admitted there. It was his eventful laboratory where he conceived the greatest
sermons of his period. I merely quote the opinions of others, far more important than my own,
when I say this. It is a sort of haunted room to-day which I enter not with any fear, but I
can never stay in it very long. It has no ghostly associations, it is too full of vital memories
for that; but it is a room that mystifies and silences me, not with mere regrets, for that
is sorrow, and there is nothing sad about the place to me. I can scarcely convey the impression;
it is as though I expected to see him come in at the door at any moment and hear him call my
name. The room is empty, but it makes me feel that he has only just stepped out for a little
while. The study is at the top of the house, a long, wide, high-ceilinged room with many windows,
from which the tops of trees sway gently in the breeze against the sky above and beyond. I
spent a great deal of time with him in it. Sometimes he would talk with me there about the
themes of his sermons which were always drawn from some need in modern life.

With the Bible open before him he would seek for a text.

"After forty years of preaching about all the wonders of this great Book," he would say, "I
am often puzzled where to choose the text most fitting to my sermon."

His habits were methodical in the extreme; his time punctually divided by a fixed system of
invaluable character. His inspirations were part of his eternal spirit, but he lived face to
face with time, obedient to the law of its precision. I think of him always as of one whose
genius was unknown to himself.

We could always tell the time of day by the Doctor's habits. They were as regular as a clock
that never varies. At 7.30 to the second he was at the breakfast table. It was exactly one
o'clock when he sat down to dinner. At 6.30 his supper was before him. Some of our household
would have preferred dining in the evening, but in that case the Doctor would have dined alone,
which was out of the question.

Every day of his life, excepting Friday, Saturday and Sunday, the Doctor walked five miles.
In bad weather he went out muffled and booted like a sailor on a stormy sea. His favourite
walk was always from our house to the Capitol, around the Library of Congress and back. He
never varied this walk for he had no bump of locality, and he was afraid of losing his way.
If he strayed from the beaten path into any one of the beautiful squares in Washington he was
sure to have to ask a policeman how to get home.

Fridays and Saturdays Dr. Talmage spent entirely in his study, dictating his sermons. How many
miles he walked these days he himself never knew, but all day long he tramped back and forth
the length of his study, composing and expounding in a loud voice the sermon of the week. He
could be heard all over the house. We had a new servant once who came rushing downstairs to
my room one morning in great fear.

"Mrs. Talmage, ma'am, there is a crazy man in that room on the top floor," she cried. She had
not seen nor heard the Doctor, and did not know that that room was his study. On these weekend
days we always drove after dark. An open carriage was at the door by 8 o'clock, and no matter
what the weather might be we had our drive. In the dead of winter, wrapped in furs and rugs,
we have driven in an open carriage just as if it were summer. Usually we went up on Capitol
Hill because the Doctor was fond of the view from that height.

My share in the Doctor's labours were those of a watchful companion, who appreciated his genius,
but could give it no greater light than sympathy and admiration. Occasionally he would ask
me to select the hymns for the services, and this I did as well as I could. Sunday was the
great day of the week to me. It has never been the same since the Doctor died. Our friendships
were always mutual, and we shared them with equal pleasure. The Doctor's friendship with President
McKinley was an intimate mutual association that ended only with the great national disaster
of the President's assassination. Very often, we walked over in the morning to the White House
to call on the President for an informal chat. A little school friend, who was visiting my
daughter that winter, told my husband how anxious she was to see a President.

"Come on with me, I will show you a real President," said Dr. Talmage one morning, and over
we went to the White House. While we were talking with the President, Mrs. McKinley came in
from a drive and sent word that she wished to see us.

"I want to show you the President's library and bedroom," she said, "that you may see how a
President lives." Then she took us upstairs and showed us their home.

While we did not keep open house, there was always someone dropping in to take dinner or supper
informally, and I was somewhat surprised when Dr. Talmage told me one day that he thought we
ought to give some sort of entertainment in return for our social obligations. It was not quite
like him to remember or think of such things. On January 23, 1899, we gave an evening reception,
to which over 300 people came. It was the first social affair of consequence the Doctor had
ever given in his house in Washington.

My husband's memory for names was so uncertain that when he introduced me to people he tactfully
mumbled. On this occasion Senator Gorman very kindly stood near me to identify the people for
me. I remember a very dapper, very little man in evening clothes, who was passed on to me by
the Doctor, with the usual unintelligible introduction, and I had just begun to make myself
agreeable when, pointing to a medal on his coat, the little man said:

"I am the only woman in the United States who has been honoured with one of these medals."

I was very much mystified and looked up helplessly at Senator Gorman, who relieved me at once
by saying, "Mrs. Talmage, this is the celebrated Dr. Mary Walker, of whom you have heard so often."

It was difficult for Dr. Talmage to assimilate the social obligations of life with the broader
demands of his life mission, which seemed to constantly extend and increase in scope into the
far distances of the world. More and more evident it became that the candlestick of his religious
doctrine could no longer be maintained in one church, or in one pulpit. The necessity of breaking
engagements out of town so as to be in Washington every Sunday became irksome to him. He felt
that he could do better in the purposes of his usefulness as a preacher if he were to bear
the candle of his Gospel in a candlestick he could carry everywhere himself. I confess that
I was not sorry when he reached this decision and submitted his resignation to the First Presbyterian
Church in the spring of 1899, after our return from a short vacation in Florida.

On our trip South I remember Admiral Schley was on the train with us part of the way. The Admiral
told the Doctor the whole story of the Santiago victory, and commented upon the official investigation
of the affair. My husband was very fond of him, and his comment was summed up in his reassuring
answer to the Admiral--"But you were there."

It was during our stay in Florida that Dr. Talmage and Joseph Jefferson, the actor, renewed
their acquaintance. The Doctor never saw him act because he had made it a rule after he entered
the ministry in his youth never to go to the theatre to see a play. In crossing the ocean he
had frequently appeared with stage celebrities, at the usual entertainments given on board
ship for the benefit of seamen, and in this way had made some friends among actors. He was
particularly fond of Madame Modjeska, whom he had met on the steamer, and whose character and
spirit he greatly admired.

Jefferson was a great fisherman, and most of his day was spent on the water or on the pier.
There we used to meet him, and he and Dr. Talmage would exchange reminiscences, serious and
ludicrous. One of the Doctor's favourite stories was an account of a terrific fight he saw
in India, between a mongoose and a cobra. Mr. Jefferson also had a story, a sort of parody
of this, which described a man in delirium tremens watching in imaginary terror a similar fight.
Years before this, when the Doctor had delivered his famous sermon in Brooklyn against the
stage, Jefferson was among the actors who went to hear him. Recalling this incident, Mr. Jefferson
said:--

"When I entered that church to hear your sermon, Doctor, I hated you. When I left the church,
I loved you." He talked very little of the theatre, and seemed to regard his stage career with
less importance than he did his love of painting. He never grew tired of this subject.

When we were leaving Palm Beach, Mr. Jefferson said to me, "I know Dr. Talmage won't come and
see me act, but when I am in Washington I will send you a box, and I hope the Doctor will let
you come."

Dr. Talmage's resignation from his church in Washington took place in March, 1899. I quote
his address to the Presbytery because it was a momentous event occurring in the gloaming of
what seemed to us all, then, the prime of his life:

    "March 3, 1899.

    "To the Session of the First Presbyterian Church of Washington.

    "Dear Friends--

    "The increasing demands made upon me by religious journalism, and
    the continuous calls for more general work in the cities, have of
    late years caused frequent interruption of my pastoral work. It is
    not right that this condition of affairs should further continue.
    Besides that, it is desirable that I have more opportunity to meet
    face to face, in religious assemblies, those in this country and in
    other countries to whom I have, through the kindness of the printing
    press, been permitted to preach week by week, and without the
    exception of a week, for about thirty years. Therefore, though very
    reluctantly, I have concluded, after serving you nearly four years
    in the pastoral relation, to send this letter of resignation....

    "T. DEWITT TALMAGE."

I had rather expected that the Doctor's release from his church would have had the desired
effect of reducing his labours, but he never accomplished less than the allotment of his utmost
strength. Rest was a problem he never solved, and he did not know what it meant. My life had
not been idle by any means, but it seemed to me that the Doctor's working hours were without
end. When I told him this, he would say:--

"Why, Eleanor, I am not working hard at all now. This is very tame compared to what I have
done in the years gone by."

His weekly sermon was always put in the mail on Saturday night, as also his weekly editorials.
Sunday the sermon was preached, and on Monday morning the syndicate of newspapers in this country
printed it. He made always two copies of his sermon. One he sent to his editorial offices in
New York, the other was delivered to the Washington Post. I was told a little while ago that
a prominent preacher called on the editor of this newspaper and asked him to publish one of
his own sermons. This was refused, even when the aforesaid preacher offered to pay for the
privilege.

"But you print Talmage's sermons!" said the preacher.

"We do," replied the editor, "because we find that our readers demand them. We tried to do
without them, but we could not."

Dr. Talmage's acquaintance with men of national reputation was very wide, but he never seemed
to consider their friendship greater than any others. He was a great hero worshipper himself,
always impressed by a man who had done something in the world. There was a great deal of praise
being bestowed about this time on Mr. Carnegie's library gifts. Dr. Talmage admired the Scottish-American
immensely, having formed his acquaintance while crossing the ocean. Five or six years later,
during the winter of 1899, the Doctor met him in one of the rooms of the White House. He tells
this anecdote in his own words, as follows:--

    "I was glad I was present that day, when Mr. Andrew Carnegie decided
    upon the gift of a library to the city of Washington. I was in one
    of the rooms of the White House talking with Governor Lowndes, of
    Maryland, and Mr. B.H. Warner, of Washington, who was especially
    interested in city libraries. Mr. Carnegie entered at the opposite
    end of the room. We greeted each other with heartiness, not having
    met since we crossed the ocean together some time before. I asked
    Mr. Carnegie to permit me to introduce him to some friends. After
    each introduction the conversation immediately turned upon
    libraries, as Mr. Carnegie was then constantly presenting them in
    this and other lands. Before the conversation ended that day, Mr.
    Carnegie offered $250,000 for a Washington library. I have always
    felt very happy at having had anything to do with that interview,
    which resulted so gloriously."

Dr. Talmage's opinions upon the aftermath of the Spanish war were widely quoted at this time.

    "The fact is this war ought never to have occurred," he said. "We
    have had the greatest naval officer of this century, Admiral Schley,
    assailed for disobeying orders, and General Shatter denounced for
    being too fat and wanting to retreat, and General Wheeler attacked
    because of something else. We are all tired of this investigating
    business. I never knew a man in Church or State to move for an
    investigating committee who was not himself somewhat of a hypocrite.
    The question is what to do with the bad job we have on hand. I say,
    educate and evangelise those islands."

As he wrote he usually talked, and these words are recollections of the subjects he talked
over with me in his quieter study hours. They were virile talks, abreast of the century hurrying
to its close, full of cheerfulness, faith, and courage for the future.

He was particularly distressed and moved by the death of Chief Justice Field, in April, 1899.
It was his custom to read his sermons to me in his study before preaching. He chose for his
sermon on April 16, the decease of the great jurist, and his text was Zachariah xi, 2: "Howl
fir tree, for the cedar has fallen." Many no doubt remember this sermon, but no one can realise
the depths of feeling with which the Doctor read it to me in the secret corner of his workroom
at home. But his heart was in every sermon. He said when he resigned from his church:--

"The preaching of the Gospel has always been my chosen work, I believe I was called to it,
and I shall never abandon it."

During this season in Washington we gave a few formal dinners. My husband wished it, and he
was a cheerful, magnetic host, though he accepted few invitations to dinner himself. No wine
was served at these dinners, and yet they were by no means dull or tiresome. Our guests were
men of ideas, men like Justice Brewer, Speaker Reed, Senator Burrows, Justice Harlan, Vice-President
Fairbanks, Governor Stone, and Senators who have since become members of the old guard. It
was said in Washington at the time that Dr. Talmage's dinner parties were delightful, because
they were ostensible opportunities to hear men talk who had something to say. The Doctor was
liberal-minded about everything, but his standards of conduct were the laws of his life that
no one could jeopardise or deny.

A very prominent society woman came to Dr. Talmage one day to ask the favour that he preach
a temperance sermon for the benefit of Sir Wilfrid Laurier, whom she wanted to interest in
temperance legislation. She promised to bring him to the Doctor's church for that purpose.

"Madame, I shall be very glad to have Sir Wilfrid Laurier attend my church," said the Doctor,
"but I never preach at anybody. Your request is something I cannot agree to." The lady was
a personal friend, and she persisted. Finally the Doctor said to her:

"Mrs. G----, my wife and I are invited to meet Sir Wilfrid Laurier at a dinner in your house
next week. Will you omit the wines at that dinner?" The lady admitted that that would be impossible.

"Then you see, Madame, how difficult it would be for me to alter my principles as a preacher."
In May, 1899, Dr. Talmage and I left Washington and went to East Hampton--alone. Contrary to
his usual custom of closing his summer home between seasons, the Doctor had allowed a minister
and his family to live there for three months. Diphtheria had developed in the family during
that time and the Doctor ordered everything in the house to be burned, and the walls scraped.
So the whole house had to be refurnished, and the Doctor and I together selected the furniture.
It was a joyous time, it was like redecorating our lives with a new charm and sentiment that
was intimately beautiful and refreshing. I remember the tenderness with which the Doctor showed
me a place on the door of the barn where his son DeWitt, who died, had carved his initials.
He would never allow that spot to be touched, it was sacred to the memory of what was perhaps
the most absorbing affection of his life. He always called East Hampton his earthly paradise,
which to him meant a busy Utopia. He was very fond of the sea bathing, and his chief recreation
was running on the beach. He was 65 years old, yet he could run like a young man. These few
weeks were a memorable vacation.

In June, Dr. Talmage made an engagement to attend the 60th commencement exercises of the Erskine
Theological College in Due West, South Carolina. This is the place where secession was first
planned, as it is also the oldest Presbyterian centre in the United States. We were the guests
of Dr. Grier, the president of the college. It was known that Rev. David P. Pressly, Presbyterian
patriarch and graduate of this college, had been my father's pastor in Pittsburg, and this
association added some interest to my presence in Due West with the Doctor. The Rev. E.P. Lindsay,
my brother's pastor in Pittsburg, had also been born there, and his mother, when I met her
in 1899, was still a vigorous Secessionist. Her greatest disappointment was the fact that her
son had abandoned the sentiments of Secession and had gone to preach in a Northern church.
She told us that she had once hidden Jefferson Davis in her house for three days. Due West
was a quiet little village inhabited by some rich people who lived comfortably on their plantations.
The graduating class of the college were entertained at dinner by Dr. Grier and the Doctor.
There was a great deal of comment upon the physical vigour and strength of Dr. Talmage's address,
most of which reached me. A gentleman who was present was reminded of the remarkable energy
of the Rev. Dr. Pressly, who preached for over fifty years, and was married three times. When
asked about his health, Dr. Pressly always throughout his life made the same reply, "Never
better; never better." After he had won his third wife, however, he used to reply to this question
with greater enthusiasm than before, saying, "Better than ever; better than ever." Another
resident of Due West, who had heard both the Booths in their prime, said, "Talmage has more
dramatic power than I ever saw in Booth." This visit to Due West will always remain in my memory
as full of sunshine and warmth as the days were themselves.

We returned to East Hampton for a few days, and on July 4, 1899, the Doctor delivered an oration
to an immense crowd in the auditorium at Ocean Grove. This was the beginning of a summer tour
of Chautauquas, first in Michigan, then up the lakes near Mackinaw Island, and later to Jamestown,
New York.

In the Fall of 1899 we made a trip South, including Nashville, Memphis, Chattanooga, Birmingham,
and New Orleans. One remarkable feature of Dr. Talmage's public life was the way in which he
was sought as the man of useful opinions upon subjects that were not related to the pulpit.
He was always being interviewed upon political and local issues, and his views were scattered
broadcast, as if he were himself an official of national affairs. He never failed to be ahead
of the hour. He regarded the affairs of men as the basis of his evangelical purpose. The Spanish
war ended, and his views were sought about the future policy in the East. The Boer war came,
and his opinions of that issue were published. Nothing moved in or out of the world of import,
during these last milestones of his life, that he was not asked about its coming and its going.
His readiness to penetrate the course of events, to wrap them in the sacred veil of his own
philosophy and spiritual fabric, combined to make him one of the foremost living characters
of his time.

Dr. Talmage was the most eager human being I ever knew, eager to see, to feel the heart of
all humanity. I remember we arrived in Birmingham, Alabama, the day following the disaster
that visited that city after the great cyclone. The first thing the Doctor did on our arrival
was to get a carriage and drive through those sections of the city that had suffered the most.
It was a gruesome sight, with so many bodies lying about the streets awaiting burial. But that
was his grasp of life, his indomitable energy, always alert to see and hear the laws of nature
at close range.

We were entertained a great deal through the South, where I believe my husband had the warmest
friends and a more cordial appreciation than in any other part of the country. There was no
lack of excitement in this life that I was leading at the elbow of the great preacher, and
sometimes he would ask me if the big crowds did not tire me. To him they were the habit of
his daily life, a natural consequence of his industry. However, I think he always found me
equal to them, always happy to be near him where I could see and hear all.

In October of this year we returned to Washington, when the Pan-Presbyterian Council was in
session, and we entertained them at a reception in our house till late in the evening. The
International Union of Women's Foreign Missionary Societies of the Presbyterian and Reformed
Churches were also meeting in Washington at this time, and they came. At one of the meetings
of the Council Dr. Talmage invited them all to his house from the platform in his characteristic
way.

"Come all," he said, "and bring your wives with you. God gave Eve to Adam so that when he lost
Paradise he might be able to stand it. She was taken out of man's side that she might be near
the door of his heart, and have easy access to his pockets. Therefore, come, bringing the ladies
with you. My wife and I shall not be entertaining angels unawares, but knowing it all the while.
To have so much piety and brain under one roof at once, even for an hour or two, will be a
benediction to us all the rest of our lives. I believe in the communion of saints as much as
I believe in the life everlasting."

In November, 1899, Dr. Talmage installed the Rev. Donald McLeod as succeeding pastor of the
First Presbyterian Church in Washington, and delivered the installation address, the subject
of which was, "Invitation to Outsiders." There had been some effort to inspire the people of
Washington to build an independent Tabernacle for the Doctor after his resignation, but he
himself was not in sympathy with the movement because of the additional labour and strain it
would have put upon him.

As the winter grew into long, gray days, we were already planning a trip to Europe for the
following year of 1900, and we were anticipating this event with eager expectancy as the time
grew near.

THE THIRD MILESTONE

1900-1901

So much has been written about Dr. Talmage the world over, that I am tempted to tell those
things about him that have not been written, but it is difficult to do. He stood always before
the people a sort of radiant mystery to them. He was never really understood by those whom
he most influenced. A writer in an English newspaper has given the best description of his
appearance in 1900 I ever saw. It is so much better than any I could make that I quote it,
regretting that I do not know the author's name:--

"A big man, erect and masterful in spite of advancing years, with an expressive and mobile
mouth that seems ever smiling, and with great and speaking eyes which proclaim the fervent
soul beneath."

This portrait is very true, with a suggestion of his nature that makes it a faithful transcript
of his presence. It is a picture of him at 66 years of age. His strength overwhelmed people,
and yet he was very simple, easily affected by the misfortunes of others, direct in all his
impressions; but no one could take him by surprise, because his faith in the eternal redemption
of all trials was beyond the ways of the world. His optimism was simple Christianity. He always
said he believed there was as great a number out of the Church as there was in it that followed
the teaching of Christianity. He was among the believers, with his utmost energy alert to save
and comfort the unbelievers. He believed in everything and everyone. The ingenuousness of his
nature was childlike in its unchallenged faith and its tender instincts. His unworldliness
was almost legendary in its belief of human nature. I remember he was asked once whether he
believed in Santa Claus, and in his own beautiful imagery he said:

"I believe in Santa Claus. Haven't I listened when I was a boy and almost heard those bells
on the reindeer; haven't I seen the marks in the snow where the sleigh stopped at the door
and old Santa jumped out? I believed in him then and I believe in him now--believe that children
should be allowed to believe in the beautiful mythical tale. It never hurt anyone, and I think
one of the saddest memories of my childhood is of a day when an older brother told me there
was no Santa Claus. I didn't believe him at first, and afterwards when I saw those delightful
mysterious bundles being sneaked into the house, way down deep in my heart I believed that
Santa Claus as well as my father and mother had something to do with it."

In the last years of his life music became the greatest pleasure to Dr. Talmage. An accumulation
of work made it necessary for me to engage a secretary. We were fortunate in securing a young
lady who was an exquisite pianist. In the evening she would play Liszt's rhapsodies for the
Doctor, who enjoyed the Hungarian composer most of all. He said to me once that he felt as
if music in his study, when he was at work, would be a great inspiration. So my Christmas present
to him that year was a musical box, which he kept in his study.

The three months preceding our trip to Europe were spent in the usual busy turmoil of social
and public life. In truth we were very full of our plans for the European tour, which was to
be devoted to preaching by Dr. Talmage, and to show me the places he had seen and people he
had met on previous visits. There was something significant in the welcome and the ovations
which my husband received over there. Neither the Doctor nor myself ever dreamed that it would
be his farewell visit. And yet it seems to me now that he was received everywhere in Europe
as if they expected it to be his last.

I must confess that we looked forward to our jaunt across the water so eagerly that the events
of the preceding months did not seem very important. With Dr. Talmage I went on his usual lecture
trip West, stopping in Chicago, where the Doctor preached in his son's church. Everywhere we
were invited to be the guests of some prominent resident of the town we were in. It had been
so with Dr. Talmage for years. He always refused, however, because he felt that his time was
too imperative a taskmaster. For thirty years he had never visited anyone over night, until
he went to my brother's house in Pittsburg. But we were constantly meeting old friends of his,
friends of many years, in every stopping place of our journeys. I remember particularly one
of these characteristic meetings which took place in New York, where the Doctor, had gone to
preach one Sunday. We had just entered the Waldorf Hotel, where we were stopping, when a little
man stepped up to the Doctor and began picking money off his coat. He seemed to find it all
over him. Dr. Talmage laughed, and introduced me to Marshall P. Wilder.

"Dr. Talmage started me in life," said Mr. Wilder, and proceeded to tell me how the Doctor
had filled him with optimism and success. He was always doing this, gripping young men by the
shoulders and shaking them into healthful life. And then men of political or national prominence
were always seeking him out, to gain a little dynamic energy and balance from the Doctor's
storehouse of experience and philosophy. He was a giant of helpfulness and inspiration, to
everyone who came into contact with him.

In January we dined with Governor Stone at the executive mansion in Harrisburg, where Dr. Talmage
went to preach, and on our return from Europe Governor Stone insisted upon giving us a great
reception and welcome. Of course, those years were stirring and enjoyable, and never to be
forgotten. The reflected glory is a personal pleasure after all.

In April, 1900, we sailed on the "Kaiser Wilhelm der Grosse" bound for London. The two points
of interest the Doctor insisted upon making in Europe were the North Cape, to see the Midnight
Sun, and the Passion Play at Ober-Ammergau. Hundreds of invitations had been sent to him to
preach abroad, many of which he accepted, but he could not be persuaded to lecture.

There was never a jollier, more electric companion de voyage than Dr. Talmage during the whole
of his trip. He was the life of the party, which included his daughter, Miss Maud Talmage,
and my daughter, Miss Rebekah Collier.

On a very stormy Sunday, on board ship going over, Dr. Talmage preached, holding on to a pillar
in the cabin. There were some who wondered how he escaped the tortures of mal-de-mer, from
which he had always suffered. It was a family secret. Once, when crossing with Mrs. Vanderbilt,
she had given Dr. Talmage an opium plaster, which was absolute proof against the disagreeable
consequences of ocean travel. With the aid of this plaster the Doctor's poise was perfect.
Disembarking at Southampton we did not reach London until 3 a.m., going to the hotel somewhat
the worse for wear. Temporarily we stopped at the Langham, moving later to the Metropole. Before
lunch the same day the Doctor drove to Westminster Abbey to see the grave of Gladstone. It
was his first thought, his first duty. It had been his custom for many years to visit the graves
of his friends whenever he could be near them. It was a characteristic impulse of Dr. Talmage's
to follow to the edge of eternity those whom he had known and liked. When he was asked in England
what he had come to do there, he said:

"I am visiting Europe with the hope of reviving old friendships and stimulating those who have
helped me in the old gospel of kindness."

His range of vision was always from the Gospel point of view, not necessarily denominational.
I remember he was asked, while in England, if there was an organisation in America akin to
the Evangelical Council of Free Churches, and he said, while there was no such body, "there
was a common platform in the United States upon almost every subject."

The principal topic in England then was the Boer War, which aroused so much hostility in our
country. The Doctor's sympathies were with the Boers, but he tactfully evaded any public expression
of them in England, although he was interviewed widely on the subject. He never believed in
rumours that were current, that the United States would interfere in the Transvaal, and prophesied
that the American Government would not do so--"remembering their common origin."

"The great need in America," he said, "is of accurate information about the Transvaal affairs.
A great many Democratic politicians are trying to make Presidential capital out of the Boer
disturbances, but it is doubtful how far these politicians will be permitted to dictate the
policy of even their own party."

I remember the candidature for President of Admiral Dewey was discussed with Dr. Talmage, who
had no very emphatic views about the matter, except to declare Admiral Dewey's tremendous popularity,
and to acknowledge his support by the good Democrats of the country. The Doctor was convinced
however that Mr. McKinley would be the next President at this time.

The first service in England which Dr. Talmage conducted was in Cavendish Chapel at Manchester.
The next was at Albert Hall in Nottingham, under the auspices of the Y.M.C.A. He was described
in the Nottingham newspapers as the "most alive man in the United States." A great crowd filled
the hall at Nottingham, and as usual he was compelled to hold an open-air meeting afterwards.
The first lecture he ever delivered in England was given in this place twenty-one years before.

Nothing interfered with the routine of the Doctor's habits of industry during all this European
trip. He had taken over with him the proofs of about 20 volumes of his selected sermons for
correction, and all his spare moments were spent in perfecting and revising these books for
the printer. His sermons were the only monument he wished to leave to posterity. It has caused
me the deepest regret that these books have not been perpetuated as he so earnestly wished.
In addition to this work he wrote his weekly sermon for the syndicate, employing stenographers
wherever he might be in Europe two days every week for that purpose. And yet he never lost
interest in the opportunities of travel, eagerly planning trips to the old historic places near by.

Near Nottingham is the famous Byron country which Dr. Talmage had never found time to visit
when he was in Europe before. We were told, at the hotel in Nottingham, that no visitors were
allowed inside Newstead Abbey, so that when we ordered a carriage to drive there the hotel
people shrugged their shoulders at what they regarded as our American irreverence. The rain
was coming down in torrents when we started, the Doctor more than ever determined to overthrow
British custom in his quiet, positive way. Through slush and mud, under dripping trees, across
country landscapes veiled in the tender mist of clouds, we finally arrived at the Abbey. The
huge outer gates were open, but the driver, with proper British respect for the law, stopped
his horses. The Doctor leaned his head out of the carriage window and told him to drive into
the grounds. Obediently he did so, and at last we reached the great heavy doors of the entrance.
Dr. Talmage jumped out and boldly rang the bell. A sentry appeared to inform us that no one
was allowed inside the Abbey.

"But we have come all the way from America to see this place," the Doctor urged. The sentry,
with wooden militarism, was adamant.

"Is there no one inside in authority?" the Doctor finally asked. Then the housekeeper was called.
She told us that the Abbey belonged to an Army officer and his wife, that her master was away
at the war in South Africa where his wife had gone with him, and that her orders were imperative.

"Look here, just let us see the lower floor," said Dr. Talmage; "we have come all the way from
New York to see this place," and he slipped two sovereigns into her hand. Still she was unmoved.
My daughter, who was then about 14, was visibly disappointed. England was to her hallowed ground,
and she was keenly anxious to walk in the footsteps of all its romance, which she had eagerly
absorbed in history. Turning to the Doctor, she said, almost tearfully:

"Why, Doctor Talmage, how can they refuse you?"

The housekeeper caught the name.

"Who did you say this was?" she asked.

"Doctor Talmage," said my daughter.

"Dr. Talmage, I was just reading the sermon you preached on Sunday in the Nottingham newspaper,
I am sure if my mistress were at home she would be glad to receive you. Come in, come in!"

So we saw Newstead Abbey. The housekeeper insisted that we should stay to tea, and made us
enter our names in the visitors' book, and asked the Doctor to write his name on a card, saying,
"I will send this to my mistress in South Africa."

In the effort to remember many of the details of our stay in England and Scotland, I find it
necessary to take refuge for information in my daughter's diary. It amused Dr. Talmage very
much as he read it page by page. I find this entry made in Manchester, where she was not well
enough to attend church:--

"Sunday, A.M.--Doctor Talmage preached and I was disappointed that I could not go. The people
went wild about the Doctor, and he had to make an address after church out-of-doors for those
who could not get inside. Several policemen stood around the church door to keep away the crowd.
I saw the High Sheriff driving home from church. He was inside a coach that looked as though
it had been drawn out of a fairy tale--a huge coach painted red and gold, with crowns or something
like them at each of the four corners. Two footmen dressed in George III. liveries were hanging
behind by ribbons, and two on the box, all wearing powdered wigs. To be sure, I didn't see
much of the Sheriff, but then the coach was the real show after all."

Many of the details of the side trips which we made through England and Scotland have escaped
my memory. In looking over my daughter's diary I find them amplified in the manner of girlhood,
now lightly touched with fancy, now solemn with historical responsibility, now charmed with
the glamour of romance. Dr. Talmage thought so well of them that they will serve to show the
trail of his footsteps through the gateways of ancestral England.

We went to Haddon Hall with Dr. Wrench, physician to the Duke of Devonshire. We drove from
Bakewell. In this part of my daughter's diary I read:--

"It was a most beautiful drive. Derbyshire is called the Switzerland of England. The hills
were quite high and beautifully wooded, and our drive lay along the river's edge--a brook we
would call it in the States, but it is a river here--and winds in and out and through the fields
and around the foot of the highest hill of all, called the Peak of Derbyshire. We passed picturesque
little farmhouses, built of square blocks of rough, grey stone covered with ivy. We drove between
hawthorn hedges, through beautiful green fields and orchards. From the midst of a little forest
of grand old trees we caught sight of the highest tower of the castle, then we crossed over
a little stone bridge and passed through the gates. Another short drive across the meadow and
we stopped at the foot of a little hill, looking up at Haddon Hall.

"We walked up to the castle and stood before the great iron-studded oak door, which has been
there since the days of Queen Elizabeth. It had not been opened for years, but a smaller one
had been cut in it through which visitors passed. For over 200 years no one had lived in the
castle. It was built by the Normans and given by William the Conqueror to one of his Norman
Barons. Finally by marriage it became the property of Sir George Vernon, who had two daughters,
famous for their beauty. Margaret Vernon married a Stanley, and on the night of the wedding
Dorothy Vernon eloped with Mr. John Manners. The story is very romantic. The ballroom from
which Dorothy stole away when the wedding party was at its height is still just as it was then,
excepting for the furniture. From the windows you can see the little stone bridge where Manners
waited for her with the horses. Haddon Hall became the property of Dorothy Manners and has
remained in the hands of the Rutland family, being now owned by the Duke of Rutland.

"That is the romance of Haddon Hall, but one could make up a hundred to oneself when one walks
through the different rooms. What a queer feeling it gives me to go through the old doorways,
to stop and look through the queer little windows, and on the courtyard, wondering who used,
long ago, to look out of the same windows. I wonder what they saw going on in the courtyard?

"We climbed to the top of the highest tower. The stairway wound upward with stone steps about
three feet high cut out of the wall. At intervals we found little square rooms, very possibly
where the men at arms slept. What a view at the top! The towers and roofs and courtyards of
the castle lay before us. All around us the lovely English country, and as far as the eye could
see, hills, woodland, and the winding river. It was glorious. Maud and I danced a two-step
in the ballroom.

"If stones could only talk! Well, if they could I should want a long confab with each one in
the old courtyard of Haddon Hall. Who can tell, William the Conqueror himself may have stepped
on some of them."

We drove from Haddon Hall to the Peacock Inn for luncheon, going over to Chatsworth for the
afternoon. Again I turn a few leaves of the diary:

"Chatsworth is one of the homes of the Duke of Devonshire. The park is fourteen miles across
and I don't know how big it is, but Dr. Wrench told me the number of acres, and I think it
was three or four thousand. We drove five miles through the park before reaching the gates
of Chatsworth--shall I call it house or castle? I have pictures of it, and it is a good thing
for I could not describe it. Dr. Wrench, being the Duke's physician, was able to take us through
the private rooms. On entering the Hall, a broad marble staircase leads to the corridors above,
from which others branch out through different parts of the house. We walked miles, it seems,
until we got to the Duke's private library. When you are once in the room the doors are shut.
You cannot tell how you got in or how you will get out. On every wall the bookcases are built
in and there is not an opening of any kind; not a break in the rows and rows of books. The
explanation is simply this: the doors themselves are made to look like book shelves, painted on.

"Chatsworth is so large that were I living there I should want a Cook's guide every time I
moved. One picture gallery is full of sketches by Hogarth, and pictures of almost every old
master you ever heard of, and some you never heard of. Opening out of this gallery are great
glass doors leading into halls into which the different bedrooms open. In one bedroom the walls
and ceiling were covered with oil paintings, not hanging but literally painted on them. The
bed was a huge four-poster. The curtains were of heavy brocaded satin. The windows looked out
on terraces, garden and fountains. I like this room best of all. We were taken through the
state apartments where I saw on a throne a huge chair of state on a platform, with canopy over
it, with the Duke's crest in gold woven upon it. In one of the drawing-rooms we saw a life-size
portrait of Henry VIII., a real true one painted from life, and one of Philip II. of Spain,
and of Charles V., and of Anne of Austria. The Duke had sent special word from London to have
the fountains in the park play for us, and we watched them from the window. They are beautiful.
Such nice shower baths for the marble statues on the terrace!

"The Prince of Wales has often visited Chatsworth, and a funny story was told about one of
his visits. It was after dinner and the drawing-room was full of people. Whenever Royalty is
present it is expected that the men will wear all their decorations. Well, the Earl of Something-or-other
had forgotten one of his, and someone reported this fact to the Prince who sent for the culprit
to be brought before him. At the time the Prince was seated on one of the huge lounges, on
which only a giant could sit and keep his feet on the floor. The Prince was sitting far back
and his feet stuck straight out in the air. When the guilty man was brought up to be reprimanded
the attitude of the Prince was far from dignified. His Royal Highness was not really angry,
but he told the poor Earl of Something-or-other that he must write out the oath of the Order
that he had forgotten to wear. It was a long oath and the Earl's memory was not so long."

We went from Nottingham to Glasgow. The date, I find, is May 1, 1900. It was always Dr. Talmage's
custom to visit the cemetery first, so we drove out to the grave of John Knox. In Glasgow the
Doctor preached at the Cowcaddens Free Church to the usual crowded congregation, and he was
compelled to address an overflow meeting from the steps of the church after the regular service.
The best part of Dr. Talmage's holiday moods, which were as scarce as he could make them because
of the amount of work he was always doing, were filled with the delight of watching the eager
interest in sightseeing of the two girls, Miss Maud Talmage and my daughter. In Glasgow we
encountered the usual wet weather of the proverbial Scottish quality, and it was Saturday of
the week before we ventured out to see the Lakes. My daughter naively confesses the situation
to her journal as follows:--

"This A.M.--Got up at the usual starting hour, 7 o'clock, and as it looked only dark we decided
to go. At breakfast it started to rain again and Mamma and the Doctor began to back out, but
Maud and I talked to some advantage. We argued that if we were going to sit around waiting
for a fair day in this country we might just as well give up seeing anything more interesting
than hotel parlours and dining-rooms.

"We started, and just as a 'send off' the old sky opened and let down a deluge of water. It
rained all the time we were on Loch Lomond, but that didn't prevent us from being up on deck
on the boat. From under umbrellas we saw the most beautiful scenery in Scotland. Part of this
trip was made by coach, always in the pouring rain. We drove on and on through the hills, seeing
nothing but sheep, sheep, sheep. Doctor Talmage asked the driver what kind of vegetables they
raised in the mountains and the driver replied--'mutton.' We had luncheon at a very pretty
little hotel on Loch Katrine, and here boarded a little steamer launch, 'Rob Roy,' for a beautiful
sail. I never, no matter where I travel, expect to look upon a lake more beautiful. The mountains
give wildness and romance to the calm and quiet of the lake, and the island. Maud read aloud
to us parts of 'The Lady of the Lake' as we sat out on deck."

In Edinburgh Dr. Talmage preached his well-known sermon upon unrequited services, at the request
of Lord Kintore, the son of the Earl of Kintore, who had suggested the theme to him some years
before. In fact the Doctor wrote this sermon by special suggestion of the Earl of Kintore.

Incidents great and small were such a large part of the eventful trip to Europe that it is
difficult to make those omissions which the disinterested reader might wish. The Doctor, like
ourselves, saw with the same rose-coloured glasses that we did. We were very pleasantly entertained
in Edinburgh by Lord Kintore and others, but the most interesting dinner party I think was
when we were the guests of Sir Herbert Simpson, brother of the celebrated Sir James Y. Simpson,
the man who discovered the uses of chloroform as an anæsthetic. We dined in the very room where
the discovery was first tested. When Dr. Simpson had decided upon a final experiment of the
effects of chloroform as an anæsthetic, he invited three or four of his colleagues and friends
to share the test with him. They met in the very room where we dined with Sir Herbert Simpson
and his family. The story goes that when everything had been prepared for the evening's work,
Dr. Simpson informed "Sandy," an old servant, that he must not be disturbed under any circumstances,
telling him not to venture inside the door himself until 5 a.m. Then, if no one had left the
room, he was to enter. "Sandy" obeyed these instructions to the letter, and came into the room
at 5 in the morning. He was very much shocked to find his master and the others under the table
in a stupor. "I never thought my master would come to this," said Sandy. He was still in the
employ of the family, being a very old man.

Dr. Talmage's engagements took him from Edinburgh to Liverpool, where he preached. It was while
there that we made a visit to Hawarden to see Mrs. Gladstone. The Doctor had been to Hawarden
before as the guest of Mr. Gladstone, and was disappointed to find that Mrs. Gladstone was
too ill to be seen by anyone. We were entertained, however, by Mrs. Herbert Gladstone. I remember
how much the Doctor was moved when he saw in the hall at Hawarden a bundle of walking sticks
and three or four hats hanging on the hat-rack, as Mr. Gladstone had left them when he died.

From Liverpool we went to Sheffield, where Dr. Talmage preached to an immense congregation.
It was in May, the time when all England is flower-laden, when the air is as sweet as perfume
and the whole countryside is as fascinating as a garden. It was the coaching season, too, and
the Doctor entered into the spirit of these beautiful days very happily. We took a ten days'
trip from Leamington after leaving Sheffield, coaching through the exquisite scenery around
about Warwick, Kenilworth, and the Shakespeare country in Stratford-on-Avon. Most of these
reminiscences are full of incidents too intimate for public interest. Like a dream that lifts
one from prosaic life into the places of precious remembrance I recall these long, happy days
in the glorious sunset of his life.

We returned to London in time for the Doctor's first preaching engagement there on May 28,
1900. The London newspapers described him as "The American Spurgeon."

"And now before the services opened at St. James' Hall a congregation of 3,000 people waited
to hear Dr. Talmage," says a London newspaper. Then it goes on to say further:--

"Dr. Talmage, who has preached from pulpits all over the world, may be described as an 'American
Spurgeon.' None of our great English speakers is less of an orator. Dr. Talmage is a great
speaker, but his power as an orator is not by any means that of a Gladstone or a Bright. It
lies more in the matter than in the manner, in his wonderful imagery, the vividness with which
he conjures up a picture before the congregation. He is a great artist in words. Dr. Talmage
affects nothing; he is naturalness itself in the pulpit, and the manner of his speech suggests
that he is angry with his subject. The sermon on this occasion lent itself well to a master
of metaphor such as Dr. Talmage, it being a review of the last great battle of the world, when
the forces of right and wrong should meet for the final mastery."

Dr. Talmage rarely preached this sermon because it was a great tax on his memory. It included
a suggestion of all the great battles of the earth, a vivid description of the armies of the
world marching forward in the eternal human struggle of right against wrong until they were
masked for the last great battle of all, when "Satan would take the field in person, in whose
make-up nothing bad was left out, nothing good was put in."

It is very remarkable to see the universal acknowledgments of the Doctor's genius in England,
one of the London newspapers going so far as to describe him in its headlines as "America's
Apostle." Nothing I could write about him could be more in eulogy, more in sympathy in comprehension
of his brilliant sacred message to the world. England proclaimed him as he was, with deep sincerity
and reverence.

His favourite sermon, and it was mine also, was upon the theme of unrequited services, the
text being from I Samuel xxx. 24, "But as his part is that goeth down to the battle, so shall
his part be that tarrieth by the stuff." It was in this sermon that Dr. Talmage made reference
to Florence Nightingale, in the following words:--

"Women, your reward in the eternal world will be as great as that of Florence Nightingale,
the Lady of the Lamp." While in London he preached this sermon, and the following day to our
surprise the Doctor received the following note at his hotel:--

    "June 3, 1900.
    "10, South Street,
    "Park Lane.

    "Dear Sir--
    "I could gladly see you to-morrow (Monday) at 5.--Yours faithfully,
    "FLORENCE NIGHTINGALE.
    "T. DeWitt Talmage, of America."

I have carefully kept the letter in my autograph album.

Dr. Talmage and I called at the appointed time. It was a beautiful summer day and we found
the celebrated woman lying on a couch in a room at the top of the house, the windows of which
looked out on Hyde Park. She was dressed all in white. Her face was exquisitely spiritual,
calm, sweet with the youth of a soul that knew no age. She had never known that she had been
called 'The Lady of the Lamp' by the soldiers of the Crimea till she read of it in the Doctor's
sermon. She was curious to be told all about it. In conversation with the Doctor she made many
inquiries about America and the Spanish war, making notes on a pad of what he said. The Doctor
told her that she looked like a woman who had never known the ordinary conflicts of life, as
though she had always been supremely happy and calm in her soul. I remember she replied that
she had never known a day's real happiness till she began her work as a nurse on the battlefield.

"I was not always happy," she said; "I had my idle hours when I was a girl." I may not remember
her exact words, but this is the sense of them. She was past 82 years of age at the time.

Enjoying the intervals of sight-seeing, such as the Tower, the Museum, Westminster Abbey, and
the usual wonders of historical London, we remained in town several weeks. I remember a visit
which Mr. Choate, the American Ambassador, made us with a view to extending any courtesy he
could for the Doctor while we were in England. I told him that I was more anxious to see the
British Parliament in session than anything else.

"I should think, as Dr. Talmage has with him a letter from the President of the United States,
this request could be arranged," I said.

Mr. Choate gracefully replied that Dr. Talmage required no introduction anywhere, not even
from the President, and arranged to have the Charge d'Affaires, Mr. White, who was later Ambassador
to France, take us over to the Houses of Parliament, where we were permitted a glimpse of the
Members at work from the cage enclosure reserved for lady visitors.

The Doctor's friends in England did their best to make us feel at home in London. We were dined
and lunched, and driven about whenever Dr. Talmage could spare time from his work. Sir Alfred
Newton, the Lord Mayor, and Lady Newton gave us a luncheon at the Mansion House on June 5,
1900. I remember the date because it was an epoch in the history of England. During the luncheon
the news reached the Lord Mayor of the capture of Pretoria. He ordered a huge banner to be
hung from the Mansion House on which were the words--

"THE BRITISH FLAG FLIES AT PRETORIA."

This was the first intimation of the event given to Londoners in that part of the city. Side
by side with it another banner proclaimed the National prayer, "God Save the Queen," in big
red letters on the white background. A scene of wild enthusiasm and excitement followed. Every
Englishman in that part of London, I believe, began to shout and cheer at the top of his lungs.
An immense crowd gathered in the adjoining streets around the Mansion House. The morning war
news had only indicated a prolonged struggle, so that the capture of Pretoria was a great and
joyous surprise to the British heart. Suddenly all hats were off, and the crowds in the streets
sang the National Anthem. There were loud calls for the Lord Mayor to make a speech. We watched
it all from the windows in the parlour of the Mansion House, at the corner of Queen Victoria
Street. Dr. Talmage was as wildly enthusiastic as any Englishman, cheering and waving his arm
from the open windows in hearty accord with the crowd below. There was no sleep for anyone
in London that night. Around our hotel, the blowing of horns and cheering lasted till the small
hours of the morning. It seemed very much like the excitement in America after the capture
of the Spanish Fleet.

We left London finally with many regrets, having enjoyed the hospitality of what is to me the
most attractive country in the world to visit. We went direct to Paris to attend the opening
ceremonies of the Paris Exposition of 1900. It seems like a very old story to tell anything
to-day of this event, and to Dr. Talmage it was chiefly a repetition of the many Fairs he had
seen in his life, but he found time to write a description of it at the time, which recalls
his impressions. He regarded it as "An Object Lesson of Peace and a Tableau of the Millennium."

His defence of General Peck, the American Commissioner-General, who was criticised by the American
exhibitors, was made at length. He considered these criticisms unjust, and said so. During
our stay in Paris Dr. Talmage preached at the American churches.

Fearing that it would be difficult to secure rooms in Paris during the Exposition, the Doctor
had written from Washington during the winter and engaged them at the hotel which a few years
before had been one of the best in Paris. Many changes had occurred since he had last been
abroad, however, and we found that the hotel where we had engaged rooms was far from being
suitable for us. The mistake caused some amusement among our American friends, who were surprised
to find Dr. Talmage living in the midst of a Parisian gaiety entirely too promiscuous for his
calling. We soon moved away from this zone of oriental music and splendour to a quieter and
more remote hotel in the Rue Castiglione.

Dr. Talmage was restless, however, to reach the North Cape in the best season to see the Midnight
Sun in its glory, and we only remained in Paris a few days, going from there to the Hague,
Amsterdam, and thence to Copenhagen in Denmark. In all the cities abroad we were always the
guests of the American Embassy one evening during our stay, and this frequently led to private
dinner parties with some of the prominent residents, which the Doctor greatly enjoyed, because
it gave him an opportunity to know the foreign people in their homes. I remember one of these
invitations particularly because as we drove into the grounds of our host's home he ordered
the American flag to be hoisted as we entered. The garden was beautiful with a profusion of
yellow blossoms, a national flower in Denmark known as "Golden Rain." We admired them so much
that our host wanted to present me with sprigs of the trees to plant in our home at East Hampton.
Dr. Talmage said he was sure that they would not grow out there so near the sea. Remembering
Judge Collier's grounds in Pittsburg, where every sort of flower grows, I suggested that they
would thrive there. Our host took my father-in-law's address, and to-day this "Golden Rain"
of Denmark is growing beautifully in his garden in Pittsburg.

We saw and explored Copenhagen thoroughly. The King of Denmark was absent from the capital,
but we stood in front of his palace with the usual interest of visitors, little expecting to
be entertained there, as afterwards we were. It all came as a surprise.

We were on our way to the station to leave Copenhagen, when Mr. Swenson, the American Minister,
overtook us and informed us that the Crown Prince and Princess desired to receive Dr. Talmage
and his family at the summer palace. Though it may be at the risk of lèse majesté to say it,
some persuasion was necessary to induce the Doctor to remain over. Our trunks were already
at the station and Dr. Talmage was anxious to get up to the North Cape. However, the American
Minister finally prevailed upon the Doctor to consider the importance of a request from royalty,
and we went back to the hotel into the same rooms we had just left.

Our presentation took place the next day at the summer palace, which is five miles from Copenhagen.
It was the most informally delightful meeting. The formalities of royalty that are sometimes
made to appear so overwhelming to the ordinary individual, were so gracefully interwoven by
the Crown Prince and the Princess with cordiality and courtesy, that we were as perfectly at
ease, as if there had been crowns hovering over our own heads. The royal children were all
present, too, and we talked and walked and laughed together like a family party. The Crown
Princess said to me, "Come, let me show you my garden," and we strolled in the beautiful grounds.
The Crown Prince said, "Come, let me show you my den," and there gave us the autographs of
himself and the Princess. We left regretfully. As we drove away the royal party were gathered
at the front windows of the palace waving their handkerchiefs to us in graceful adieus. I remember
my little daughter was very much surprised with the simplicity of the whole affair, saying
to me as we drove away, "Why, it was just like visiting Grandpa's home."

On our way to Tröndhjem from Copenhagen we stayed over a few days at Christiania, where we
were the guests of Nansen, the Arctic explorer. His home, which stood out near the water's
edge, was like a bungalow made of pine logs. There were no carpets on the floors, which were
covered with the skins of animals he had himself killed. Trophies of all sorts were in evidence.
It was a very memorable afternoon with the simple, brave, scientific Nansen.

At Tröndhjem we took the steamer "Köng Harald" for the North Cape. A party of American friends
had just returned from there with the most lugubrious story about the bad weather and their
utter failure to see the sun. As it was pouring rain when we started, it would not have taken
much persuasion to induce us to give it all up. But we had started with a purpose, and silently
but firmly we went on with it. Dr. Talmage never turned back at any cross road in his whole
life. In a few hours after leaving Tröndhjem we were in the raw, cold Arctic temperature where
a new order of existence begins.

We lose all sense of ordinary time, for our watches indicate midnight, and there is no darkness.
The over-hanging clouds draw slowly apart, and the most brilliant, dazzling midnight sun covers
the waters and sets the sky on fire. It neither rises from the horizon or sinks into it. It
stays perfectly, immovably still. After a while it rises very slowly. The meals on board are
as irregular as the time; they are served according to the adaptability of one's appetite to
the strangeness of the new element of constant daytime. We scarcely want to sleep, or know
when to do so. Fortunately our furs are handy, for there is snow and ice on the wild, barren
rocks on either side of us.

On July 1, at 8 p.m., we sighted this northernmost land, the Cape, and were immediately induced
to indulge in cod fishing from the decks of our steamer. It is the custom, and the cod seem
to accept the situation with perverse indiscretion, for many of them are caught. Our lines
and bait are provided by sailors. Dinner is again delayed to enable us to indulge in this sport,
but we don't mind because we have lost all the habitual tendencies of our previous normal state.

At 10 p.m., in a bright daylight, the small boats full of passengers begin to leave the steamer
for the shore. In about fifteen minutes we are landed at the base of that towering Cape. There
are some who doubt the wisdom of Dr. Talmage's attempting to climb at his age. He has no doubts,
however, and no one expresses them to him. He is among the first to take the staff, handed
to him as to all of us, and starts up at his usual brisk, striding gait. It is a test of lungs
and heart, of skill and nerve to climb the North Cape, and let no one attempt it who is unfitted
for the task. Steep almost as the side of a house, rocky as an unused pathway, it is a feat
to accomplish. We were the first party of the season to go up, and the paths had not been entirely
cleared of snow, which was two and three feet deep in places, the path itself sometimes a narrow
ledge over a precipice. A rope guard was the only barrier between us and a slippery catastrophe.
Every ten or fifteen minutes we sat down to get our breath. It took us two hours to reach the
top. It was a few minutes after midnight when the sun came out gloriously.

Coming down was much more perilous, but we got back in safety to the "Köng Harald" at 2 a.m.
On our way down to Tröndhjem we celebrated the Fourth of July on board. The captain decorated
the ship for the occasion and we all tried to sing "The Star Spangled Banner," but we could
not remember the words, much to our mutual surprise and finally we compromised by singing "America,"
and, worst of all, "Yankee Doodle." Dr. Talmage made a very happy address, and we came into
port finally, pledged to learn the words of "The Star Spangled Banner" before the year was up.

In our haste to reach the North Cape we had passed hurriedly through Sweden, so, on our return
we went from Tröndhjem to Stockholm, where we arrived on July 7, 1900.

When in London Dr. Talmage had accepted an invitation to preach in the largest church in Sweden,
with some misgiving, because, as he himself said when asked to do this, "Shall I have an audience?"
Of course the Doctor did not speak the Swedish language. Dr. Talmage had been told in England
that his name was known through all Sweden, which was a fact fully sustained by a publisher
in Stockholm who came to the hotel one afternoon and brought copies of ten of the Doctor's
books translated into Swedish. This insured a cordial greeting for the Doctor, but how was
he to make himself understood?

The Immanuel Church in Stockholm, one of the largest I ever saw, with two galleries and three
aisles, was filled to its capacity. Dr. Talmage was to preach through an interpreter, himself
a foremost preacher in his own country. The Doctor had preached through interpreters three
times in his life; once when a theological student addressing a congregation of American Indians,
once in a church in Hawaii, and once in Ceylon through an interpreter standing on each side
of him, one to translate into Cingalese, and the other to translate into Hindustan. No one
who was present at that morning Sabbath service on July 8, 1900, will forget the strange impressions
that translated sermon preached by Dr. Talmage made upon everyone. Sentence by sentence the
brilliant interpreter repeated the Doctor's words in the Swedish language, while the congregation
in eager silence studied Dr. Talmage's face while listening to the translation of his ideas.

"Whether I did them any good or not they did me good," said the Doctor after the service.

While in Stockholm we dined with Mr. Wyndham, Secretary of the American Legation, and were
shown through the private rooms of the royal palace, of which my daughter took snapshots with
surreptitious skill. The Queen was a great invalid and scarcely ever saw anyone, but while
driving to her summer palace we caught a glimpse of her being lifted from her little horse,
on which she had been riding, seated in a sort of armchair saddle. With a groom to lead the
horse Her Majesty took the air every day in this way. She was a very frail little woman.

From Stockholm we started by steamer for St. Petersburg, but the crowd was so great that we
found our staterooms impossible, and we disembarked at Alba, the first capital in Finland.
We were curious to see the new capital, Helsingfors, and stopped over a day or two there. From
Helsingfors we went by rail to the Russian capital.

Dr. Talmage had been in Russia years before, on the occasion of his presentation of a shipload
of flour from the American people to the famine sufferers. At that time he had been presented
to Emperor Alexander III., as well as the Dowager Empress. It was his intention to pay his
respects again to the new Emperor, whose father he had known, so that we looked forward to
our stay in St. Petersburg as eventful. The Crown Prince of Denmark had urged the Doctor to
see his brother-in-law, the Czar, while in St. Petersburg, and we learned later that he had
written a letter to the Court concerning our coming to St. Petersburg.

On July 23, 1900, we received the following note from Dr. Pierce, the American Charge d'Affaires
in St. Petersburg:--

    "July 23, 1900.
    "Embassy of the United States, St. Petersburg.

    "Dear Dr. Talmage--

    "I take much pleasure in informing you that you and Mrs. Talmage and
    your daughters will be received by Their Majesties the Emperor and
    Empress on Wednesday next, at 2½ p.m.

    "Yours very sincerely,
    "HERBERT H.D. PIERCE.

    "P.S.--I will let you know the details later."

Mr. Pierce called in full court dress and informed Dr. Talmage that it would be necessary for
him to appear in like regalia. As the Doctor was not accustomed to wearing swords, or cocked
hats, or brass buttons on his coat, he received these instructions with some distress of mind.
Later, we received from the Grand Master of Ceremonies of the Russian Court a formal invitation
to be presented at Peterhof, the summer palace.

On Wednesday, July 25, 1900, I find this irreverent entry in my American girl's diary:--

"I can't think of any words sufficiently high sounding with which to begin the report of this
day, so shall simply write about breakfast first, and gradually lead up to the great event.
In spite of the coming honour and the present excitement we all ate a hearty breakfast."

"As our train was to leave for Peterhof about noon we spent the morning dressing.

"After all," writes my irreverent daughter in her diary, "dressing for royalty is not more
important than dressing for a dance or dinner. It can't last for much over an hour. When we
had everything on we sat opposite each other as stiff as pokers--waiting."

My daughter took a snapshot picture of us while waiting. Mrs. Pierce had kindly given us some
instructions about curtseying and backing away from royalty, a ceremony which neither the Czar
nor the Czarina imposed upon us, however. The trip to Peterhof was made on one of the Imperial
cars. The distance by rail from St. Petersburg was only half-an-hour. A gentleman from the
American Embassy rode with us. We were met at the station by footmen in royal livery and conducted
to a carriage with the Imperial coat-of-arms upon it. Sentinels in grey coats saluted us.

We were driven first to the Palace of Peterhof, where more footmen in gold lace, and two other
officials in gorgeous uniform, conducted us inside, through a corridor, past a row of bowing
servants, into a dining-room where the table was set for luncheon, with gold and silver plates,
cut glass and rare china. A more exquisite table setting I never saw. Three dressing-rooms
opened off this big room, and these we promptly appropriated.

The luncheon was perfect, though we would have enjoyed it better after the strain of our presentation
had been over. The four different kinds of wine were not very liberally patronised by any of
our party. After luncheon we were driven through the royal park which was literally filled
with mounted Cossacks on guard everywhere, to the abode of the Emperor. Through another double
line of liveried servants we were ushered into a small room where the Master of Ceremonies
and a lady-in-waiting greeted us. We waited about five minutes when an officer came to the
Doctor and took him to see the Emperor. A little later we were ushered into another room into
the presence of the Empress of Russia. She came forward very graciously with outstretched hands
to meet us. The Czarina is the most beautiful woman I ever saw, aristocratic, simple, extremely
sensitive. She was dressed in a black silk gown with white polka dots. Slightly taller than
the Czar, the Empress was most affable, girlish in her manner. As she talked the colour came
and went on her pale, fair cheeks, and she gave me the impression of being a very sensitive,
reserved, exquisitely rare nature. Her smile had a charming yet half melancholy radiance. We
all sat down and talked. I remember the little shiver with which the Empress spoke of a race
in the Orient whom she disliked.

"They would stab you in the back," she said, her voice fading almost to a whisper. She looked
to be about twenty-eight years old. Once when we thought it was time to go, and had started
to make our adieus, the Czarina kept on talking, urging us to stay. She talked of America chiefly,
and told us how enthusiastic her cousin was who had just returned from there. When, finally,
we did leave we were spared the dreaded ceremony of backing out of the room, for the Empress
walked with us to the door, and shook hands in true democratic American fashion.

Dr. Talmage's interview with the Czar was quite as cordial. The Emperor expressed his faith
in the results of the Peace movement at the Hague, for he was himself at peace with all the
world. During the interview the Doctor was asked many questions by the Emperor about the heroes
of the Spanish war, especially concerning Admiral Dewey. His Majesty laughed heartily at the
Doctor's story of a battle in which the only loss of life was a mule.

"How many important things have happened since we met," the Czar said to the Doctor; "I was
twenty-four when you were here before, now I am thirty-two. My father is gone. My mother has
passed through three great sorrows since you were here--the loss of my father, of my brother,
and during this last year of her own mother, the Queen of Denmark. She wishes to see you in
her own palace."

The Czar is about five feet ten in height, is very fair, with blue eyes, and seemed full of
kindness and good cheer.

As we were leaving, word came from the Dowager Empress that she would see us, and we drove
a mile or two further through the royal park to her palace. She greeted Dr. Talmage with both
hands outstretched, like an old friend. Though much smaller in stature than the Empress of
Russia, the Dowager Empress was quite as impressive and stately. She was dressed in mourning.
Her room was like a corner in Paradise set apart from the grim arrogance of Imperial Russia.
It was filled with exquisite paintings, sweet with a profusion of flowers and plants. She seemed
genuinely happy to see the Doctor, and her eyes filled with tears when he spoke of the late
Emperor, her husband. At her neck she was wearing a miniature portrait of him set in diamonds.
Very simply she took it off to show to us, saying, "This is the best picture ever taken of
my husband. It is such a pleasure to see you, Dr. Talmage, I heard of your being in Europe
from my brother in Denmark."

The Dowager Empress was full of remembrances of the Doctor's previous visit to Russia, eight
years before.

"How did you like the tea service which my husband sent you?" she asked Dr. Talmage; "I selected
it myself. It is exactly like a set we use ourselves."

The informal charm of the Empress's manner was most friendly and kind.

"Do you remember the handful of flowers I picked for you, and asked you to send them to your
family?" she said.

"You stood here, my husband there, and I with my smaller children stood here. How well I remember
that day; but, oh, what changes!"

The Dowager Empress invited us to come to her palace next day and meet the Queen of Greece,
her niece by marriage, and her sister-in-law who was visiting Russia just then, but we were
obliged to decline because of previous plans. Very graciously she wrote her autograph for us
and promised to send me her photograph, which later on I received. We were driven back to the
station in the Imperial carriage, where a representative of the American Embassy met us and
rode back to St. Petersburg with us.

So ended a day of absorbing interest such as I shall never experience again. There is a touch
of humour always to the most important events in life. I shall never forget Dr. Talmage's real
distress when he found that the sword which he had borrowed from Mr. Pierce, the Charge d'Affaires
of the American Embassy, had become slightly bent in the course of its royal adventure. I can
see his look of anxiety as he tried to straighten it out, and was afraid he couldn't. He always
abhorred borrowed things and hardly ever took them. Fortunately, the sword was not seriously
damaged.

Our objective point after leaving Russia was Ober-Ammergau, where Dr. Talmage wanted to witness
the Passion Play. We travelled in that direction by easy stages, going from St. Petersburg
first to Moscow, where we paid a visit to Tolstoi's house. From Moscow we went to Warsaw, and
thence to Berlin. The Doctor seemed to have abandoned himself completely to the lure of sightseeing
by this time. Churches, picture galleries, museums were our daily diet. While in Berlin we
returned from a drive one day to the hotel and found ourselves the objects of unusual solicitude
and attention from the hotel proprietor and his servants. With many obsequious bows we were
informed that the Russian Ambassador had called upon us in our absence, and had informed the
hotel people that he had a special package from the Czar to deliver to me. He left word that
he would be at the hotel at 2 p.m. the following day to carry out his Imperial Master's instructions.
At the time appointed the next day the Russian Ambassador called and formally presented to
me, in the name of the Emperor, a package that had been sent by special messenger. I immediately
opened it and found a handsome Russian leather case. I opened that, and inside found the autographs
of the Emperor and Empress of Russia, written on separate sheets of their royal note paper.

We had a very good time in Berlin. The presence of Sousa and his band there gave it an American
flavour that was very delightful. The Doctor's interest was really centred in visiting the
little town of Württemberg, famous for its Luther history. Dr. Dickey, Pastor of the American
Church in Berlin, became our guide on the day we visited the haunts of Luther. One day we went
through the Kaiser's Palace at Potsdam, where my daughter managed to use her kodak with good
effect.

From Berlin we went to Vienna, and thence to Munich, arriving at the little village of Ober-Ammergau
on August 25, 1900.

Dr. Talmage's impressions of the Passion Play, which he wrote at Ober-Ammergau on this occasion,
were never published in this country, and I herewith include them in these last milestones
of his life.

THE PASSION PLAY AT OBER-AMMERGAU

By Rev. T. DeWitt Talmage, D.D.

About fifteen years ago the good people of America were shocked at the proposition to put on
the theatrical stage of New York the Passion Play, or a dramatic representation of the sufferings
of Christ. It was to be an imitation of that which had been every ten years, since 1634, enacted
in Ober-Ammergau, Germany. Every religious newspaper and most of the secular journals, and
all the pulpits, denounced the proposition. It would be an outrage, a sacrilege, a blasphemy.
I thought so then; I think so now. The attempt of ordinary play actors amid worldly surroundings,
and before gay assemblages, to portray the sufferings of Christ and His assassination would
have been a horrible indecency that would have defied the heavens and invoked a plague worse
than that for the turning back of which the Passion Play at Ober-Ammergau was established.
We might have suggested for such a scene a Judas, or a Caiaphas, or a Pilate, or a Herod. But
who would have been the Christ?

The Continental protest which did not allow the curtain of that exhibition to be hoisted was
right, and if a similar attempt should ever be made in America I hope it may be as vehemently
defeated. But as certain individuals may have an especial mission which other individuals are
not caused to exercise, so neighbourhoods and provinces and countries may have a call peculiar
to themselves.

Whether the German village of Ober-Ammergau which I have just been visiting, may have such
an especial ordination, I leave others to judge after they have taken into consideration all
the circumstances. The Passion Play, as it was proposed for the theatrical stage in New York,
would have been as different from the Passion Play as we saw it at Ober-Ammergau a few days
ago as midnight is different from mid-noon.

Ober-Ammergau is a picture-frame of hills.

The mountains look down upon the village, and the village looks up to the mountains. The river
Ammer, running through the village, has not recovered from its race down the steeps, and has
not been able to moderate its pace. Like an arrow, it shoots past. Through exaltations and
depressions of the rail train, and on ascending and descending grades, we arrived at the place
of which we had heard and read so much. The morning was as glorious as any other morning that
was let down out of the heavens. Though many thousands of people from many quarters of the
earth had lodged that night in Ober-Ammergau, the place at dawn was as silent as a hunter's
cabin in any of the mountains of Bavaria. The Ammergauers are a quiet people. They speak in
low tones, and are themselves masters of the art of silence. Their step, as well as their voice,
is quiet. Reverence and courtesy are among their characteristics. Though merry enough, and
far from being dolorous, I think the most of them feel themselves called to a solemn duty,
that in some later time they will be called to take part in absorbing solemnities, for about
700 performers appear in the wonderful performance; there are only about 1,400 inhabitants.

While the morning is still morning, soon after 7 o'clock, hundreds and thousands of people,
nearly all on foot, are moving in one direction, so that you do not have to ask for the place
of mighty convocation. Through fourteen large double doors the audience enter. Everything in
the immense building is so plain that nothing could be plainer, and the seats are cushionless,
a fact which becomes thoroughly pronounced after you have for eight hours, with only brief
intermissions, been seated on them.

All is expectancy!

The signal gun outside the building sounds startlingly. We are not about to witness an experiment,
but to look upon something which has been in preparation and gathering force for two hundred
and sixty-six years. It was put upon the stage not for financial gain but as a prayer to God
for the removal of a Destroying Angel which had with his wings swept to death other villages,
and was then destroying Ober-Ammergau. It was a dying convulsion in which Widowhood and Orphanage
and Childlessness vowed that if the Lord should drive back that Angel of Death, then every
ten years they would in the most realistic and overwhelming manner show the world what Christ
had done to save it.

They would reproduce His groan. They would show the blood-tipped spear. They would depict the
demoniac grin of ecclesiastics who gladly heard perjurers testify against the best Friend the
world ever had, but who declined to hear anything in His defence. They would reproduce the
spectacle of silence amid wrong; a silence with not a word of protest, or vindication, or beseechment;
a silence that was louder than the thunder that broke from the heavens that day when at 12
o'clock at noon was as dark as 12 o'clock at night.

Poets have been busy for many years putting the Passion Play into rhythm. The Bavarian Government
had omitted from it everything frivolous. The chorus would be that of drilled choirs. Men and
women who had never been out of the sight of the mountains which guarded their homes would
do with religious themes what the David Garricks and the Macreadys and the Ristoris and the
Charlotte Cushmans did with secular themes. On a stage as unpretentious as foot ever trod there
would be an impersonation that would move the world. The greatest tragedy of all times would
find fit tragedian. We were not there that August morning to see an extemporised performance.
As long ago as last December the programme for this stupendous rendering was all made out.
No man or woman who had the least thing objectionable in character or reputation might take part.

The Passion Council, made up of the pastor of the village church and six devout members, together
with the Mayor and ten councillors selected for their moral worth, assembled. After special
Divine service, in which heaven's direction was sought, the vote was taken, and the following
persons were appointed to appear in the more important parts of the Passion Play: Rochus Lang,
Herod; John Zwink, Judas; Andreas Braun, Joseph of Arimathea; Bertha Wolf, Magdalen; Sebastian
Baur, Pilate; Peter Rendi, John; William Rutz, Nicodemus; Thomas Rendi, Peter; Anna Flunger,
Mary; Anton Lang, Christ.

The music began its triumphant roll, and the curtains were divided and pulled back to the sides
of the stage. Lest we repeat the only error in the sacred drama, that of prolixity, we will
not give in minutiæ what we saw and heard. The full text of the play is translated and published
by my friend, the Reverend Doctor Dickey, pastor of the American Church of Berlin, and takes
up 169 pages, mostly in fine print.

I only describe what most impressed me.

There is a throng of people of all classes in the streets of Jerusalem, by look and gesture
indicating that something wonderful is advancing. Acclamations fill the air. The crowd parts
enough to allow Christ to pass, seated on the side of a colt, which was led by the John whom
Jesus especially loved. The Saviour's hands are spread above the throng in benediction, while
He looks upon them with a kindness and sympathy that win the love of the excited multitude.
Arriving at the door of the Temple, Jesus dismounts and, walking over the palm branches and
garments which are strewn and unrolled in His way, He enters the Temple, and finds that parts
of that sacred structure are turned into a marketplace, with cages of birds and small droves
of lambs and heifers which the dealers would sell to those who wanted to make a "live offering"
in the Temple. Indignation gathers on the countenance of Christ where gentleness had reigned.
He denounces these merchants, who stood there over-reaching in their bargains and exorbitantly
outrageous in their charges. The doors of the cages holding the pigeons are opened, and in
their escape they fly over the stage and over the audience. The table on which the exchangers
had been gathering unreasonable percentage was thrown down, and the coin rattled over the floor,
and the place was cleared of the dishonest invaders, who go forth to plot the ruin and the
death of Him who had so suddenly expelled them.

The most impressive character in all the sacred drama is Christ.

The impersonator, Anton Lang, seems by nature far better fitted for this part than was his
predecessor, Josef Mayr, who took that part in 1870, 1880, and 1890. Mayr is very tall, brawny,
athletic. His hair was black in those days, and his countenance now is severe. He must have
done it well, but I can hardly imagine him impersonating gentleness and complete submission
to abuse. But Anton Lang, with his blonde complexion, his light hair, blue eyes and delicate
mouth, his exquisiteness of form and quietness of manner, is just like what Raphael and many
of the old masters present. When we talked with Anton Lang in private he looked exactly as
he looked in the Passion Play. This is his first year in the Christ character, and his success
is beyond criticism. In his trade as a carver of wood he has so much to do in imitating the
human countenance that he understands the full power of expression. The way he listens to the
unjust charges in the court room, his bearing when the ruffians bind him, and his manner when,
by a hand, thick-gloved so as not to get hurt, a crown of thorns was put upon his brow, and
the officers with long bands of wood press it down upon the head of the sufferer, all show
that he has a talent to depict infinite agony.

No more powerful acting was ever seen on the stage than that of John Zwink, the Judas. In repose
there is no honester face in Ober-Ammergau than his. Twenty years ago he appeared in the Passion
Play as St. John; one would suppose that he would do best in a representation of geniality
and mildness. But in the character of Judas he represents, in every wrinkle of his face, and
in every curl of his hair, and in every glare of his eye, and in every knuckle of his hand
with which he clutches the money bag, hypocrisy and avarice and hate and low strategy and diabolism.
The quickness with which he grabs the bribe for the betrayal of the Lord, the villainous leer
at the Master while seated at the holy supper, show him to be capable of any wickedness. What
a spectacle when the traitorous lips are pressed against the pure cheek of the Immaculate One,
the disgusting smack desecrating the holy symbol of love.

But after Judas has done his deadly work then there comes upon him a remorse and terror such
as you have never seen depicted unless you have witnessed the Passion Play at the foot of the
Bavarian mountains. His start at imaginary sounds, his alarm at a creaking door, his fear at
nothing, the grinding teeth and the clenched fist indicative of mental torture, the dishevelled
hair, the beating of his breast with his hands, the foaming mouth, the implication, the shriek,
the madness, the flying here and there in the one attempt to get rid of himself, the horror
increased at his every appearance, whether in company or alone, regarded in contrast with the
dagger scene of "Macbeth" makes the latter mere child's play. That day, John Zwink, in the
character of Judas, preached fifty sermons on the ghastliness of betrayal. The fire-smart of
ill-gotten gain, the iron-beaked vulture of an aroused conscience; all the bloodhounds of despair
seemed tearing him. Then, when he can endure the anguish no longer, he loosens the long girdle
from his waist and addresses that girdle as a snake, crying out:--

"Ha! Come, thou serpent, entwine my neck and strangle the betrayer," and hastily ties it about
his neck and tightens it, then rushes up to the branch of a tree for suicide, and the curtain
closes before the 4,000 breathless auditors.

Do I approve of the Passion Play at Ober-Ammergau?

My only answer is that I was never so impressed in all my life with the greatness of the price
that was paid for the redemption of the human race. The suffering depicted was so awful that
I cannot now understand how I could have endured looking upon its portrayal. It is amazing
that thousands in the audience did not faint into a swoon as complete as that of the soldiers
who fell on the stage at the Lord's reanimation from Joseph's mausoleum.

Imagine what it would be to see a soldier seemingly thrust a spear into the Saviour's side,
and to see the crimson rush from the laceration.

Would I see it acted again? No. I would not risk my nerves again under the strain of such a
horror. One dreams of it nights after.

When Christ carrying His cross falls under it, and you see Him on His hands and knees, His
forehead ensanguined with the twisted brambles, and Veronica comes to Him offering a handkerchief
to wipe away the tears, and sweat and blood, your own forehead becomes beaded with perspiration.
As the tragedy moves on, solemnity is added to solemnity. Not so much as a smile in the eight
hours, except the slight snicker of some fool, such as is sure to be found in all audiences,
when the cock crew twice after Peter had denied him thrice.

What may seem strange to some, I was as much impressed with Christ's mental agony as with his
physical pangs. Oh! what a scene when in Gethsemane He groaned over the sins of the world for
which He was making expiation, until the angelic throngs of heaven were so stirred by His impassioned
utterance that one of their white-winged number came out and down to comfort the Angel of the
New Covenant!

Some of the tableaux or living pictures between the acts of this drama were graphic and thrilling,
such as Adam and Eve expelled from arborescence into homelessness; Joseph, because of his picturesque
attire sold into serfdom, from which he mounts to the Prime Minister's chair; the palace gates
shut against Queen Vashti because she declines to be immodest; manna snowing down into the
hands of the hungry Israelites; grapes of Eshcol so enormous that one cluster is carried by
two men on a staff between them; Naboth stoned to death because Ahab wants his vineyard; blind
Samson between the pillars of the Temple of Dagon, making very destructive sport for his enemies.
These tableaux are chiefly intended as a breathing spell between the acts of the drama. The
music rendered requires seven basses and seven tenors, ten sopranos and ten contraltos. Edward
Lang has worked thirty years educating the musical talent of the village. The Passion Play
itself is beyond criticism, though it would have been mightier if two hours less in its performance.
The subtraction would be an addition.

The drama progresses from the entering into Jerusalem to the condemnation by the Sanhedrim,
showing all the world that crime may be committed according to law as certainly as crime against
the law.

Oh, the hard-visaged tribunal; countenances as hard as the spears, as hard as the spikes, as
hard as the rocks under which the Master was buried! Who can hear the metallic voice of that
Caiaphas without thinking of some church court that condemned a man better than themselves?
Caiaphas is as hateful as Judas. Blessed is that denomination of religionists which has not
more than one Caiaphas!

On goes the scene till we reach the goodby of Mary and Christ at Bethany. Who will ever forget
that woman's cry, or the face from which suffering has dried the last tear? Who would have
thought that Anna Flunger, the maiden of twenty-five years, could have transformed her fair
and happy face into such concentration of gloom and grief and woe? Mary must have known that
the goodbye at Bethany was final, and that the embrace of that Mother and Son was their last
earthly embrace. It was the saddest parting since the earth was made, never to be equalled
while the earth stands.

What groups of sympathetic women trying to comfort her, as only women can comfort!

On goes the sacred drama till we come to the foot-washing. A few days before, while we were
in Vienna, we had explained to us the annual ceremony of foot washing by the Emperor of Austria.
It always takes place at the close of Lent. Twelve very old people are selected from the poorest
of the poor. They are brought to the palace. At the last foot-washing the youngest of the twelve
was 86 years of age, and the oldest 92. The Imperial family and all those in high places gather
for this ceremony. An officer precedes the Emperor with a basin of water. For many days the
old people have been preparing for the scene. The Emperor goes down on one knee before each
one of these venerable people, puts water on the arch of the foot and then wipes it with a
towel. When this is done a rich provision of food and drink is put before each one of the old
people, but immediately removed before anything is tasted. Then the food and the cups and the
knives and the forks are put in twelve sacks and each one has his portion allotted him. The
old people come to the foot-washing in the Emperor's carriage and return in the same way, and
they never forget the honour and splendour of that occasion.

Oh, the contrast between that foot-washing amid pomp and brilliant ceremony and the imitated
foot-washing of our Lord at Ober-Ammergau. Before each one of the twelve Apostles Christ comes
down so slowly that a sigh of emotion passes through the great throng of spectators. Christ
even washes the feet of Judas. Was there in all time or eternity past, or will there be in
all time or eternity to come, such a scene of self-abnegation? The Lord of heaven and earth
stooping to such a service which must have astounded the heavens more than its dramatisation
overpowered us! What a stunning rebuke to the pride and arrogance and personal ambition of
all ages!

The Hand of God on Human Foot in Ablution!

No wonder the quick-tempered Peter thought it incongruous, and forbade its taking place, crying
out: "Thou shalt never wash my feet!" But the Lord broke him down until Peter vehemently asked
that his head and his hands be washed as well as his feet.

During eight hours on that stage it seems as though we were watching a battle between the demons
of the Pit and the seraphs of Light, and the demons triumph. Eight hours telling a sadness,
with every moment worse than its predecessor. All the world against Him, and hardly any let
up so that we feel like leaving our place and rushing for the stage and giving congratulations
with both hands to Simon of Cyrene as he lightens the Cross from the shoulder of the sufferer,
and to Nicodemus who voted an emphatic "No" at the condemnation, and to Joseph of Arimathea
who asks the honour of being undertaker at the obsequies.

Scene after scene, act after act, until at the scourging every stroke fetches the blood; and
the purple mantle is put upon Him in derision, and they slap His face and they push Him off
the stool upon which He sits, laughing at His fall. On, until from behind the curtain you hear
the thumping of the hammers on the spikes; on, until hanging between two bandits, He pledges
Paradise within twenty-four hours to the one, and commits His own broken-hearted mother to
John, asking him to take care of her in her old age; and His complaint of thirst brings a sponge
moistened with sour wine on the end of a staff; and blasphemy has hurled at Him its last curse,
and malice has uttered concerning Him its last lie, and contempt has spit upon Him its last
foam, and the resources of perdition are exhausted, and from the shuddering form and white
lips comes the exclamation, "It is finished!"

At that moment there resounded across the river Ammer and through the village of Ober-Ammergau
a crash that was responded to by the echoes of the Bavarian mountains. The rocks tumbled back
off the stage, and the heavens roared and the graves of the dead were wrecked, and it seemed
as if the earth itself had foundered in its voyage through the sky. The great audience almost
leaped to its feet at the sound of that tempest and earthquake.

Look! the ruffians are tossing dice for the ownership of the Master's coat. The darkness thickens.
Night, blackening night. Hark! The wolves are howling for the corpse of the slain Lord. Then,
with more pathos and tenderness than can be seen in Rubens' picture, "Descent from the Cross,"
in the cathedral at Antwerp, is the dead Christ lowered, and there rises the wailing of crushed
motherhood, and with solemn tread the mutilated body is sepulchred. But soon the door of the
mausoleum falls and forth comes the Christ and, standing on the shoulder of Mount Olivet, He
is ready for ascension. Then the "Hallelujah Chorus" from the 700 voices before and behind
the scenes closes the most wonderful tragedy ever enacted.

As we rose for departure we felt like saying with the blind preacher, whom William Wirt, the
orator of Virginia, heard concluding his sermon to a backwoods congregation:

"Socrates died like a philosopher, but Jesus died like a God!"

I have been asked whether this play would ever be successfully introduced into America or England.
I think there is some danger that it may be secularised and turned into a mercenary institution.
Instead of the long ride by carriages over rough mountain roads for days and days, as formerly
was necessary in order to reach Ober-Ammergau, there are now two trains a day which land tourists
for the Passion Play, and among them may appear some American theatrical manager who, finding
that John Zwink of Ober-Ammergau impersonates the spirit of grab and cheat and insincerity
better than any one who treads the American stage, and only received for his wonderful histrionic
ability what equals forty-five pounds sterling for ten years, may offer him five times as much
compensation for one night. If avarice could clutch Judas with such a relentless grasp at the
offer of thirty pieces of silver, what might be the proportionate temptation of a thousand
pieces of gold!

The impression made upon Dr. Talmage by the Passion Play was stirring and reverent. He described
it as one of the most tremendous and fearful experiences of his life.

"I have seen it once, but I would not see it again," he said, "I would not dare risk my nerves
to such an awful, harrowing ordeal. Accustomed as I am to think almost constantly on all that
the Bible means, the Passion Play was an unfolding, a new and thrilling interpretation, a revelation.
I never before realised the capabilities of the Bible for dramatic representation."

We went from Ober-Ammergau to that modern Eden for the overwrought nerves of kings and commoners--Baden-baden,
where we spent ten days. At the end of this time we returned to Paris to enjoy the Exposition
at our leisure. Paris is always a place of brightness and pleasure. King Leopold of Belgium
was among the distinguished guests of the French capital, whom we saw one day while driving
in the Bois. We made visits to Versailles and the palace of Fontainebleau. The Doctor enjoyed
these trips into the country, and always manged to make his arrangements so that he could go
with us. From Paris we went to London for a farewell visit. Dr. Talmage had promised to preach
in John Wesley's chapel in the City Road, known as "The Cathedral of Methodism."

On Sunday, September 30, 1900, the crowd was so great that had come to hear Dr. Talmage that
a cordon of police was necessary to guard the big iron gates after the church was filled. The
text of his sermon that day was significant. It may have been a conception of his own life
work--its text. It was taken from a passage in the eleventh chapter of Daniel:--

"The people that do know their God shall be strong and do exploits."

It is difficult to conceive of the enthusiasm that Dr. Talmage aroused everywhere the immense
crowds that gathered to see and hear him. During our stay in London this time, after a preaching
service in a church in Piccadilly, the wheels of our carriage were seized and we were like
a small island in a black sea of restless men and women. The driver couldn't move. The Doctor
took it with great delight and stood up in the carriage, making an address. From where he was
standing he could not see the police charging the crowd to scatter them. When he did, he realised
that he was aiding in obstructing the best regulated thoroughfare in London. Stopping his address,
he said, "We must recognise the authority of the law," and sat down. It was said that Dr. Talmage
was the only man who had ever stopped the traffic in Piccadilly.

From London Dr. Talmage and I went together for a short visit to the Isle of Wight, and later
to Swansea where he preached; we left the girls with Lady Lyle, at Sir John Lyle's house in London.

It had become customary whenever the Doctor made an address to ask me to sit on the platform,
and in this way I became equal to looking a big audience in the face, but one day the Doctor
over-estimated my talents. He came in with more than his usual whir, and said to me:

"Eleanor, I have been asked if you won't dedicate a new building at the Wood Green Wesleyan
Church in North London. I said I thought you would, and accepted for you. Won't you please
do this for me?"

There was no denying him, and I consented, provided he would help me with the address. He did,
and on the appointed day when we drove out to the place I had the notes of my speech held tightly
crumpled in my glove. There was the usual crowd that had turned out to hear Dr. Talmage who
was to preach afterwards, and I was genuinely frightened. I remember as we climbed the steps
to the speaker's platform, the Doctor whispered to me, "Courage, Eleanor, what other women
have done you can do." I almost lost my equilibrium when I was presented with a silver trowel
as a souvenir of the event. There was nothing about a silver trowel in my notes. However, the
event passed off without any calamity but it was my first and last appearance in public.

As the time approached for us to return to America the Doctor looked forward to the day of
sailing. It had all been a wonderful experience even to him who had for so many years been
in the glare of public life. He had reached the highest mark of public favour as a man, and
as a preacher was the most celebrated of his time. I wonder now, as I realise the strain of
work he was under, that he gave me so little cause for anxiety considering his years. He was
a marvel of health and strength. There may have been days when his genius burned more dimly
than others, and often I would ask him if the zest of his work was as great if he was a bit
tired, hoping that he would yield a little to the trend of the years, but he was as strong
and buoyant in his energies as if each day were a new beginning. His enjoyment of life was
inspiring, his hold upon the beauty of it never relaxed.

From London we went to Belfast, on a very stormy day. Dr. Talmage was advised to wait a while,
but he had no fear of anything. That crossing of the Irish Channel was the worst sea trip I
ever had. We arrived in Belfast battered and ill from the stormy passage, all but the Doctor,
who went stoically ahead with his engagements with undiminished vigour. Going up in the elevator
of the hotel one day, we met Mrs. Langtry. Dr. Talmage had crossed the ocean with her.

"Won't you come and see my play to-night?" she asked him.

"I am very sorry, Madame, but I am speaking myself to-night," said the Doctor courteously.
He told me afterwards how fortunate he felt it to be that he was able to make a real excuse.
Invitations to the theatre always embarrassed him.

From Belfast we went to Cork for a few days, making a trip to the Killarney lakes before sailing
from Queenstown on October 18, 1900, on the "Oceanic."

"Isn't it good to be going back to America, back to that beautiful city of Washington," said
the Doctor, the moment we got on board.

Whatever he was doing, whichever way he was going, he was always in pursuit of the joy of living.
Although the greatest year of my life was drawing to a close, it all seemed then like an achievement
rather than a farewell, like the beginning of a perfect happiness, the end of which was in
remote perspective.

THE LAST MILESTONE

1900-1902

There was no warning of the divine purpose; there was no pause of weakness or illness in his
life to foreshadow his approaching end. Until the last sunset hours of his useful days he always
seemed to me a man of iron. He had stood in the midst of crowds a towering figure; but away
from them his life had been a studied annihilation, an existence of hidden sacrifice to his
great work. He used to say to me: "Eleanor, I have lived among crowds, and yet I have been
much of the time quite alone." But alone or in company his mind was ever active, his great
heart ever intent on his apostolate of sunshine and help towards his fellow-men. And the good
things he said were not alone the utterances of his public career; they came bubbling forth
as from a spring during the course of his daily life, in his home and among his friends, even
with little children. Books have been written styled, "Conversations of Eminent Men"; and I
have often thought had his ordinary conversations been reported, or, better, could the colossal
crowds who admired him have been, as we, his privileged listeners, they would have been no
less charmed with his brilliant talk than with the public displays of eloquence with which
they were so captivated.

Immediately after his return from Europe in the autumn of 1900, Dr. Talmage took up his work
with renewed vigour and enthusiasm. He stepped back into his study as if a new career of preaching
awaited him. Never, indeed, had a Sunday passed, since our union, on which he had not given
his divine message from the pulpit; never had he missed a full, arduous, wearisome day's work
in his Master's vineyard. But I think Dr. Talmage now wrote and preached more industriously
and vigorously than I had ever seen him before. His work had become so important an element
in the character of American life, and in the estimate of the American people--I might add,
in that of many foreign peoples, too--that his consciousness of it seemed to double and treble
his powers; he was carried along on a great wave of enthusiasm; and in the joy of it all, we,
with the thousands who bowed before his influence, looked naturally for a great many years
of a life of such wide-spread usefulness. Over him had come a new magic of autumnal youth and
strength that touched the inspirations of his mind and increased the optimism of his heart.
No one could have suspected that the golden bowl was so soon to be broken; that the pitcher,
still so full of the refreshing draughts of wisdom, was about to be crushed at the fountain.
But so it was to be.

Invigorated by his delightful foreign trip, Dr. Talmage now resumed his labours with happy
heart and effervescing zeal. He used to say: "I don't care how old a man gets to be, he never
ought to be over eighteen years of age." And he seemed now to be a living realisation of his
words. He had given up his regular pastorate at the First Presbyterian Church in Washington,
that he might devote himself to broader responsibilities, which seemed to have fallen upon
him because of his world-wide reputation. I cannot forbear quoting here--as it reveals so much
the character of the man--a portion of his farewell letter, the mode he took of giving his
parting salutation:

    "The world is full of farewells, and one of the hardest words to
    utter is goodby. What glorious Sabbaths we have had together! What
    holy communions! What thronged assemblages! Forever and forever we
    will remember them.... And now in parting I thank you for your
    kindness to me and mine. I have been permitted, Sabbath by Sabbath,
    to confront, with the tremendous truths of the Gospel, as genial and
    lovely, and cultivated and noble people as I ever knew, and it is a
    sadness to part with them.... May the richest blessing of God abide
    with you! May your sons and daughters be the sons and daughters of
    the Lord Almighty! And may we all meet in the heavenly realms to
    recount the divine mercies which have accompanied us all the way,
    and to celebrate, world without end, the grace that enabled us to
    conquer! And now I give you a tender, a hearty, a loving, a
    Christian goodby.

    "T. DEWITT TALMAGE."

Apart from his active literary and editorial work, he was now to devote himself to sermons
and lectures which should have for audience the whole country. As a consequence, on re-entering
his study after his long absence, he found accumulated on his desk an immense number of invitations
to preach, applications from all parts of the land. He smiled, and expressed more than once
his conviction that God's Providence had marked out his way for him, and here was direct proof
of His divine call and His fatherly love.

At a monster meeting in New York this year Dr. Talmage revived national interest in his presence
and his Gospel. Ten thousand people crowded to the Academy of Music to hear his words of encouragement
and hope. It was the twentieth anniversary of the Bowery Mission, of which Dr. Talmage was
one of the founders. "This century," he said in part, "is to witness a great revival of religion.
Cities are to be redeemed. Official authority can do much, but nothing can take the place of
the Gospel of God.... No man goes deliberately into sin; he gets aboard the great accommodation
train of Temptation, assured that it will stop at the depot of Prudence, or anywhere else he
desires, to let him off. The conductor cries: 'All aboard' and off he goes. The train goes
faster and faster, and presently he wants to get off. 'Stop'! he calls to the conductor; but
that official cries back: 'This is the fast express and does not stop until it reaches the
Grand Central Station of Smashupton.'" The sinner can be raised up, he insists. "The Bible
says God will forgive 490 times. At your first cry He will bend down from his throne to the
depths of your degradation. Put your face to the sunrise."

Faith in God was his armour; his shield was hope; his amulet was charity. He harnessed the
events of the world to his chariot of inspiration, and sped on his way as in earlier years.
He had become a foremost preacher of the Gospel because he preached under the spell of evangelical
impulse, under the control of that remarkable faith which comes with the transformation of
all converted men or women. The stillness of the vast crowds that stood about the church doors
when he addressed them briefly in the open air after services was a tribute to the spell he
cast over them by the miracle of that converting grace. He was quite unconscious of the attention
he attracted outside the pulpit, on the street, in the trains. His celebrity was not the consequence
of his endeavours to obtain it, nor was it won, as some declared, by studied dramatic effects;
it was the result of his moments of inspiration, combined with continual and almost superhuman
mental labour--labour that was a fountain of perennial delight to him, but none the less labour.

If "Genius is infinite patience," as a French writer said, Dr. Talmage possessed it in an eminent
degree. Every sermon he ever wrote was an output of his full energies, his whole heart and
mind; and while dictating his sermons in his study, he preached them before an imaginary audience,
so earnest was his desire to reach the hearts of his hearers and produce upon them a lasting
influence. His sermons were born not of the crowd, but for the crowd, in deep religious fervour
and conviction. His lectures, incisive and far-reaching as they were in their conceptions and
in their moral and social effects, were not so impressive as his sermons, with their undertone
of divine inspiration.

In accord with an invitation sent to us in Paris, from the Governor of Pennsylvania, we went
to Harrisburg as the guests at the Executive Mansion, where a dinner and reception were given
Dr. Talmage in honour of his return from abroad. During this dinner, the Rev. Dr. John Wesley
Hill, then pastor of the church in Harrisburg in which Dr. Talmage preached, told us of a rare
autograph letter of Lincoln, which he owned. It was his wish that Dr. Talmage should have it
in his house, where he thought more people would see it. The next day, Dr. Hill sent this letter
to us:--

    "GENTLEMEN,--In response to your address, allow me to attest the
    accuracy of its historical statements; indorse the sentiments it
    expresses; and thank you, in the nation's name, for the sure promise
    it gives.

    "Nobly sustained as the government has been by all the churches, I
    would utter nothing which might, in the least, appear invidious
    against any. Yet, without this, it may fairly be said that the
    Methodist Episcopal Church, not less devoted than the best, is, by
    its greater numbers, the most important of all. It, is no fault in
    others that the Methodist Church sends more soldiers to the field,
    more nurses to the hospitals, and more prayers to Heaven than any.
    God bless the Methodist Church--bless all the churches--and blessed
    be God, Who, in this our great trial, giveth us the churches.

    "A. LINCOLN.

    "May 18th, 1864."

A great welcome was given Dr. Talmage in Brooklyn, in November, 1900, when he preached in the
Central Presbyterian Church there. It was the Doctor's second appearance in a Brooklyn church
after the burning of the Tabernacle in 1894.

It was urged in the newspapers that he might return to his old home. The invitation was tempting,
judging by the thousands who crowded that Sunday to hear him. In my scrapbook I read of this
occasion:

"Women fainted, children were half-crushed, gowns were torn and strong men grew red in the
face as they buffeted the crowds that had gathered to greet the Rev. T. DeWitt Talmage at the
Central Presbyterian Church in Brooklyn."

In the autumn of 1900, an anniversary of East Hampton, N.Y., was held, and the Doctor entered
energetically and happily into the celebration, preaching in the little village church which
had echoed to his voice in the early days of his ministry. It was a far call backward over
nearly five decades of his teeming life. And he, whose magic style, whether of word or pen,
had enchanted millions over the broad world--how well he remembered the fears and misgivings
that had accompanied those first efforts, with the warning of his late professors ringing in
his ears: "You must change your style, otherwise no pulpit will ever be open to you."

Now he could look back over more than a quarter of a century during which his sermons had been
published weekly; through syndicates they had been given to the world in 3,600 different papers,
and reached, it was estimated, 30,000,000 people in the United States and other countries.
They were translated into most European and even into Asiatic languages. His collected discourses
were already printed in twenty volumes, while material remained for almost as many more. His
style, too, in spite of his "original eccentricities," had attracted hundreds of thousands
of readers to his books on miscellaneous subjects--all written with a moral purpose. Among
a score of them I might mention: From Manger to Throne; The Pathway of Life; Crumbs Swept Up;
Every-day Religion; The Marriage Ring; Woman: her Powers and Privileges.

Dr. Talmage edited several papers beginning with The Christian at Work; afterwards he took
charge, successively, of the Advance, Frank Leslie's Sunday Magazine, and finally The Christian
Herald, of which he continued to be chief editor till the end of his life. He spoke and wrote
earnestly of the civilising and educational power of the press, and felt that in availing himself
of it and thereby furnishing lessons of righteousness and good cheer to millions, he was multiplying
beyond measure his short span of life and putting years into hours. He said: "My lecture tours
seem but hand-shaking with the vast throngs whom I have been enabled to preach to through the
press."

His editorials were often wrought out in the highest style of literary art. I am pleased to
give the following estimate from an author who knew him well: "As an editorial writer, Dr.
Talmage was versatile and prolific, and his weekly contributions on an immense variety of topics
would fill many volumes. His writing was as entertaining and pungent as his preaching, and
full of brilliant eccentricities--'Talmagisms,' as they were called. He coined new words and
invented new phrases. If the topic was to his liking, the pen raced to keep time with the thought....
Still, with all this haste, nothing could exceed the scrupulous care he took with his finished
manuscript. He once wired from Cincinnati to his publisher in New York instructions to change
a comma in his current sermon to a semicolon. He had detected the error while reading proof
on the train."

Dr. Talmage's personal mail was thought to be the largest of any man in the country, outside
of some of the public officers. Thousands, men and women, appealed to him for advice in spiritual
things, revealing to him intimate family affairs, laying their hearts bare before him as before
a trusted physician of the soul. I have seen him moved to the depths of his nature by some
of these white missives bearing news of conversion to faith in Christ wrought by his sermons;
of families rent asunder united through his words of love and broadmindedness; of mothers whose
broken hearts he had healed by leading back the prodigal son; of prisoners whose hope in life
and trust in a loving Father had been awakened by a casual reading of some of his comforting
paragraphs.

The life of Dr. Talmage was by no means the luxurious one of the man of wealth and ease it
was sometimes represented to be. He could not endure that men should have this aspect of him.
He was a plain man in his tastes and his habits; the impression that he was ambitious for wealth,
I know, was a false one. I do not believe he ever knew the value of money. The possession of
it gave him little gratification except for its use in helping to carry on the great work he
had in hand; and, indeed, he never knew how little or how much he had. He never would own horses
lest he should give people reason to accuse him of being arrogantly rich. We drove a great
deal, but he always insisted on hiring his carriages. If he accepted remuneration for his brain
and heart labour, Scripture tells us, "The labourer is worthy of his hire." He was foremost
in helping in any time of public calamity, not only in our own country but more than once in
foreign lands. And when volumes of his sermons were pirated over the country, and he was urged
to take legal steps to stop the injustice, he said: "Let them alone; the sermons will go farther
and do more good."

Dr. Talmage's opinions were sought eagerly, and upon all subjects of social, political, or
international interest. He was a student of men, and kept ever in close touch with the progress
of events. A voluminous and rapid reader, he was quick to grasp the aim and significance of
what he read and apply it to his purpose. His library in Washington contained a large and valuable
collection of classics, ancient and modern; and his East Hampton library was almost a duplicate
of this. He never travelled very far without a trunkful of books. I remember, in the first
year of our marriage, his interest in some books I had brought from my home that were new to
him. Many of them he had not had time to read, so, in the evenings, I used to read them aloud
to him. Tolstoi's works were his first choice; together we read a life of the great Russian,
which the Doctor enjoyed immensely.

The Bible was ever held by Dr. Talmage in extreme reverence, which grew with his continual
study and meditation of the sacred pages. He repudiated the "higher criticism" with a vehemence
that caused him to be sharply assailed by modern critics--pronounced infidels or of infidel
proclivities--who called him a "bibliolater." He asserted and reasserted his belief in its
divine inspiration: "The Bible is right in its authenticity, right in its style, right in its
doctrine, and right in its effects. There is less evidence that Shakespeare wrote 'Hamlet,'
that Milton wrote 'Paradise Lost,' or that Tennyson wrote 'The Charge of the Light Brigade,'
than that the Bible is God's Word, written under inspiration by evangelists and prophets. It
has stood the bombardment of ages, but with the result of more and more proof of its being
a book divinely written and protected." "Science and Revelation are the bass and soprano of
the same tune," he said. He defied the attempts of the loud-mouthed orators to destroy belief
in the Bible. "I compare such men as Ingersoll, in their attacks on the Bible, to a grasshopper
upon a railway-line with the express coming thundering along."

His living portraits of Jesus, the Saviour of men, his studies of that divine life, of the
words, the actions of the Son of God, especially of His sufferings and death, merging into
the glory of His resurrection and ascension, are all well known to those who were of his wide
audience. The sweetness, gentleness, and sympathy of the Saviour were favourite themes with
him. In a sermon on tears, he says: "Jesus had enough trials to make him sympathetic with all
sorrowful souls. The shortest verse in the Bible tells the story: 'Jesus wept.' The scar on
the back of either hand, the scar in the arch of either foot, the row of scars along the line
of the hair, will keep all Heaven thinking. Oh, that Great Weeper is the One to silence all
earthly trouble, to wipe all the stains of earthly grief. Gentle! Why, His step is softer than
the step of the dew. It will not be a tyrant bidding you hush your crying. It will be a Father
who will take you on His left arm, His face beaming into yours, while with the soft tips of
the fingers of the right hand He shall wipe away all tears from your eyes." And here is a word
of appeal to those gone astray: "The great heart of Christ aches to have you come in; and Jesus
this moment looks into your eyes and says: 'Other sheep I have that are not of this fold.'"

Dr. Talmage was at times acutely sensitive to the thrusts of sharp criticism dealt to him through
envy or misunderstanding of his motives. A great writer has said somewhere: "Accusations make
wounds and leave scars"; but even the scars were soon worn off his outraged feelings by the
remembrance of his divine Master's gentleness and forgiveness. How often have I seen the mandate,
"Love your enemies; do good to them that hate you," verified in Dr. Talmage. He could not bear
detraction or uncharitableness. His heart was so broad and loving that he seemed to have room
in it for the whole world; and his greeting of strangers on an Australian platform, amid the
heathers of Scotland, or in the Golden Gate of California, was so free and cordial that each
one might have thought himself a dear friend of the Doctor, and he would have been right in
thinking so. Again, his sense of humour was so great that he could laugh and "poke fun" at
his critics with such ease and good humour that their arrows passed harmlessly over his head.
"Men have a right to their opinions," he would genially say. "There are twenty tall pippin
trees in the orchard to one crab apple tree. There are a million clover blooms to one thistle
in the meadow."

His will power was extraordinary; it was endowed with a persistence that overcame every obstacle
of his life; there was an air of supreme confidence, of overwhelming vitality, about his every
act. Nothing seemed to me more wonderful in him than this; and it entered into all his actions,
from those that were important and far-reaching in their consequences to the workings of his
daily life in the home. Though his way through these last milestones, during which I travelled
with him, was chiefly through the triumphal archways he had raised for himself upon the foundations
of his work, there were indications that their cornerstone was the will power of his nature.

Many incidents of the years before I knew him justify this opinion. One in particular illustrates
the extraordinary perseverance of Dr. Talmage's character. When his son DeWitt was a boy, in
a sudden mood of adventure one day, he enlisted in the United States Navy. Shortly afterwards
he regretted having done so. Some one went to his father and told him that the boy was on board
a warship at Hampton Roads, homesick and miserable. Dr. Talmage went directly to Washington,
straight into the office of Mr. Thompson, the Secretary of the Navy. "I am Dr. Talmage," he
said promptly; "my son has enlisted in the Navy and is on a ship near Norfolk. I want to go
to him and bring him home. He is homesick. Will you write me an order for his release?" The
Secretary replied that it had become an impression among rich men's sons that they could take
an oath of service to the U.S. Government, and break it as soon as their fathers were ready,
through the influence of wealth, to secure their release. He was opposed to such an idea, he
said; and, therefore, though he was very sorry, he could not grant Dr. Talmage's request. The
Doctor immediately took a chair in the office, and said firmly: "I shall not leave this office,
Mr. Secretary, until you write out an order releasing my son."

The hour for luncheon came. The Secretary invited the Doctor to lunch with him. "I shall not
leave this office, Mr. Secretary, until I get that order," was the Doctor's reply. The Secretary
of the Navy left the office; after an absence of an hour and a half, he returned and found
Dr. Talmage still sitting in the same place. The afternoon passed. Dinner time came round.
"Dr. Talmage, will you not honour me by coming up to my house to dine, and staying with us
over night?" asked the Secretary. "I shall not leave this office until you write out that order
releasing my son, Mr. Secretary," was the calm, persistent reply. The Secretary departed. The
building was empty, save for a watchman, to whom the Secretary said in passing, "There is a
gentleman in my room. When he wishes to leave let him out of the building."

About nine o'clock at night the Secretary became anxious. Telephones were not common then,
so he went down to the office to investigate; and sitting there in the place where he had been
all day was Dr. Talmage. The order was written that night. This incident was told me by a friend
of the Doctor's. There can be no doubt that Dr. Talmage was justified in this demand of paternal
love and sympathy, since numbers of such concessions had been made by the Secretary and his
predecessors. His daring and his pertinacity were overwhelming forces of his genius.

In the winter months of this year I enjoyed another lecturing tour with him through Canada
and the West. The lecture bureau that arranged his tours must have counted on his herculean
strength, for frequently he had to travel twenty-four hours at a stretch to keep his engagements.
Occasionally he was paid in cash at the end of the lecture an amount fixed by the lecture bureau.
I have seen him with perhaps $2,000 in bills and gold stuffed away carelessly in his pocket,
as if money were merely some curious specimen of no special value. Sometimes he would receive
his fee in a cheque, and, as happened once in a small Western town, he would have very little
money with him. I remember an occasion of this kind, because it was amusing. The cheque had
been given the Doctor as usual at the end of his lecture. It was about eleven at night, and
we were compelled to take a midnight train out to reach his next place of engagement. At the
hotel where we stayed they did not have money enough to cash the cheque. We walked up the street
to the other hotel, but found there an equal lack of the circulating medium. It was a bitter
cold night.

"Here we are out in the world without a roof over our heads, Eleanor," said the Doctor, merrily.
"What a cold world it is to the unfortunate." Finally Dr. Talmage went to the ticket office
of the railroad and explained the situation to the young man in charge. "I can't give you tickets,
but I will buy them for you, and you can send me the money," the clerk said promptly. As we
had an all-day ride before us and a drawing room to secure, the amount was not inconsiderable.
I think it was on this trip that William Jennings Bryan got on the train and enlivened the
journey for us. The stories he and the Doctor hammered out of the long hours of travel were
entertaining. We exchanged invitations to the dining car so as not to stop the flow of conversation
between Mr. Bryan and the Doctor. We would invite him to lunch, and Mr. Bryan would ask us
to dinner, or vice versâ, so that the social amenities were delightfully extended to keep us
in mutual enjoyment of the trip. Dr. Talmage and myself agreed that Mr. Bryan's success on
the platform was much enhanced by his wonderful voice. The Doctor said he had never heard so
exquisite a speaking voice in a man as Mr. Bryan's. He always spoke in eloquent support of
the masses, denouncing the trusts with vehemence.

Travelling was always a kind of luxury to me, when we were not obliged to stop over at some
wretched hotel. The Pullman cars were palatial in comfort compared to the hotels we had to
enter. But Dr. Talmage was always satisfied; no hotel, however poor, could alter the cheerfulness
of his temperament.

In January, 1901, Queen Victoria died, and Dr. Talmage's eulogy went far and wide. I quote
again from my scrap-book a part of his comment on this world event:

"While Queen Victoria has been the friend of all art, all literature, all science, all invention,
all reform, her reign will be most remembered for all time, all eternity, as the reign of Christianity.

"I believe that no throne since the throne of David and the throne of Hezekiah and the throne
of Esther, has been in such constant touch with the throne of heaven as the throne of Victoria.
Sixty-three years of womanhood enthroned!"

In March of 1901 Dr. Talmage inaugurated a series of Twentieth Century Revival Meetings in
the Academy of Music, in New York. It was a great Gospel campaign in which thousands were powerfully
impressed for life. The Doctor seemed to have made a new start in a defined evangelical plan
of saving the world. Indeed, to save was his great watchword, to save sinners, but most of
all to save men from becoming sinners. One of his famous themes--and thousands remember his
burning words--was "The Three Greatest Things to Do--Save a Man, Save a Woman, Save a Child."
There was a certain anxiety in my mind about Dr. Talmage in this sixty-eighth year of his life,
and I used to tell him that he had reached the top of all religious obligations as he himself
felt them, that there was nothing greater for him to do, and that he might now move with softer
measure to the inspired impulses of his life. But he never delayed, he never tarried, he never
waited. He marched eagerly ahead, as if the milestones of his life stretched many years beyond.

Our social life in Washington was subservient to Dr. Talmage's reign of preaching. We never
accepted invitations without the privilege of qualifying our acceptance, making them subject
to the Doctor's religious duties. The privilege was gracefully acknowledged by all our friends.
We were away from Washington, too, a great deal. In the spring of this year, 1901, the Doctor
made a lecturing tour through the South, that was full of oratorical triumphs for him, but
no less marked by delightful social incidents. There was a series of dinners and receptions
in his honour that I shall never forget, in those beautiful homes of Mississippi, Alabama,
and Tennessee. Because of his Gospel pilgrimage of many years in these places, Dr. Talmage
had grown to be a household god among them.

When winter had shed his garland of snow over nature, or when we were knee deep in summer's
verdure and flowers, East Hampton was the Doctor's headquarters. From there we made our summer
trips. It was after a short season at East Hampton in the summer of 1901, that the Doctor went
to Ocean Grove, where he delivered a Fourth of July oration, the enormous auditorium being
crowded to its utmost capacity. A few days later we went to Buffalo, where, in a large tent
standing in the Exposition ground, Dr. Talmage lectured, his powerful voice triumphing over
the fireworks that, from a place near by, went booming up through the heavens. After a series
of Chautauqua lectures through Michigan and Wisconsin, the Doctor finished his course at Lake
Port, Maryland, near picturesque Deer Park. These are merely casual recollections, too brief
to serve otherwise than as evidence of Dr. Talmage's tremendous industry and energy.

In September, 1901, came the assassination of President McKinley. Dr. Talmage had an engagement
to preach at Ocean Grove the day following the disaster. On our arrival at the West End Hotel,
Long Branch, the Doctor went in to register while we remained in the carriage at the door.
Suddenly he came out, and I could see that he was very much agitated. He had just received
the news of the tragedy.

"I cannot preach to-morrow," he said. "This is too horrible. McKinley has been shot. What shall
I do?" And he stood there utterly stunned; unable to think. "Well, we will stop at the hotel
to-night, at any rate," I said, "let us go in."

Later the Doctor tried to explain to those in charge at Ocean Grove that he could not preach,
but they prevailed upon him to deliver the sermon he had with him, which he did, prefacing
it with appropriate remarks about the national disaster of the hour.

The following telegram was immediately sent to the Chief of the Nation, cut off so ruthlessly
in his career of honour and usefulness:--

    "Long Branch, September 6th.

    "President McKinley, Buffalo, N.Y.

    "The Nation is in prayer for your recovery. You will be nearer and
    dearer to the people than ever before after you have passed this
    crisis. Mrs. Talmage joins me in sympathy.

    "T. DEWITT TALMAGE."

After the death of the President the Doctor preached his sermon "Our Dead President" for the
first time in the little church at East Hampton, where it had been written in his study. In
October the Doctor was called upon to preach at the obsequies of the Rev. Dr. Sunderland, for
many years pastor of the First Presbyterian Church in Washington. What a long season of obsequies
Dr. Talmage solemnised! And yet, with what supreme optimism he defied the unseen arrow in his
own life that came to pierce him with such suddenness in April, 1902.

The Doctor had been a good traveller, and he was fond of travelling; but, toward the end of
his life, there were moments when he felt its fatiguing influences. He never complained or
appeared apprehensive, but I remember the first time he showed any weariness of spirit. I almost
recall his words: "I have written so much about everything, that now it becomes difficult for
me to write. I am tired." It frightened me to hear him say this, he was so wonderful in endurance
and strength; and I could not shake off the effect that this first sign of his declining years
made upon me. He was then sixty-nine years old, and the last of the twelve children, save his
sister.

The last sermon he ever wrote was preached in February, 1902. The text of this was from Psalms
xxxiii. 2: "Sing unto Him with the Psaltery, and an instrument of ten strings." This was David's
harp of gratitude and praise. After some introductory paragraphs on the harp, its age, the
varieties of this "most consecrated of all instruments," its "tenderness," its place in "the
richest symbolism of the Holy Scriptures," he writes: "David's harp had ten strings, and, when
his great soul was afire with the theme, his sympathetic voice, accompanied by exquisite vibrations
of the chords, must have been overpowering.... The simple fact is that the most of us, if we
praise the Lord at all, play upon one string or two strings, or three strings, when we ought
to take a harp fully chorded, and with glad fingers sweep all the strings. Instead of being
grateful for here and there a blessing we happen to think of, we ought to rehearse all our
blessings, and obey the injunction of my text to sing unto Him with an instrument of ten strings."
"Have you ever thanked God for delightsome food?" he asks; and for sight for "the eye, the
window of our immortal nature, the gate through which all colours march, the picture gallery
of the soul?" He enumerates other blessings--hearing, sleep, the gift of reason, the beauties
of nature, friends. "I now come," he continues, "to the tenth and last. I mention it last that
it may be more memorable--heavenly anticipation. By the grace of God we are going to move into
a place so much better than this, that on arriving we will wonder that we were for so many
years so loath to make the transfer. After we have seen Christ face to face, and rejoiced over
our departed kindred, there are some mighty spirits we will want to meet soon after we pass
through the gates." As his graphic pen depicts the scene--the meeting with David and the great
ones of Scripture, "the heroes and heroines who gave their lives for the truth, the Gospel
proclaimers, the great Christian poets, all the departed Christian men and women of whatever
age or nation"--he seems to have already a foretaste of the wonderful vision so soon to open
to his eyes. "Now," he concludes, "take down your harp of ten strings and sweep all the chords.
Let us make less complaint and offer more thanks; render less dirge and more cantata. Take
paper and pen and write in long columns your blessings.... Set your misfortunes to music, as
David opened his dark sayings on a harp.... Blessing, and honour and glory and power be unto
Him that sitteth upon the throne and unto the Lamb for ever. Amen!"

I recall that when Dr. Talmage first read this sermon to me in his study, he said: "That is
the best I can do; I shall never write a better sermon." I have been told that when a man says
he has reached the topmost effort of his abilities, it presages his end, and the march of events
seemed to verify the axiom.

Dr. Talmage's last journey came about through the invitation of the Mexican minister in Washington.
The latter met Dr. Talmage at dinner, and on hearing that he had never preached in Mexico he
urged him to go there. When the Doctor's plans had all been made, some friends tried to dissuade
him from going, secretly fearing, perhaps, the tax it would be on his strength. Yet there was
no evidence at this time to support their fears, and the Doctor himself would have been the
last to listen to any warning. He was very busy during the few days that preceded our departure
from Washington in attending the meetings of the Committee of distinguished clergymen who were
in session to revise the creed of the Presbyterian Church.

The day before we left for Mexico, the Doctor told me he desired to entertain these gentlemen,
as had been his custom during all important gatherings of representative churchmen who visited
Washington. He was in great spirits. His ideas of a social affair were definite and generous,
as we discovered that day, much to our amusement.

"Eleanor," he said, "I feel as though I would like to have these gentlemen to luncheon at my
house to-morrow. Can you arrange it? I could not possibly leave Washington without showing
them some special courtesy. Now, I want a real meal, something to sit down to. None of your
floating oysters, or little daubs of meat in pastry, but real food, whole turkeys, four or
five of them--a substantial meal." The Doctor's respect for chicken patties, creamed oysters,
and the usual buffet reception luncheon, was clearly not very great.

The luncheon was given at 1.30 on the day appointed; the distinguished guests all came, two
by two, into our house. A few weeks later, they came again in a body, two by two, into the
house of mourning.

Besides the visiting clergy, Dr. Talmage had also invited for this luncheon other representative
men of Washington. It was the last social gathering which the Doctor ever attended in his own
home, and perhaps for that reason becomes a significant event in my memory. After the rest
had departed, Dr. Henry Van Dyke remained for an hour or two to talk with my husband in his
study. Dr. Talmage so often referred to the great pleasure this long interview had given him,
that I am sure it was one of the supreme enjoyments of his last spiritual milestone.

The night before we left Washington an incident occurred that directly concerns these pages.
We had gone down into the basement of the house to look for some papers the Doctor kept there
in the safe, and in taking them out he picked up the manuscript of his autobiography. As we
went upstairs I said to the Doctor, "What a pity that you have not completed it entirely."

The Doctor replied, "All the obscure part of my life is written here, and a great part of the
rest of it. When I return from Mexico I will finish it. If anything should happen, however,
it can be completed from scrapbooks and other data."

We went into his study and the Doctor had just begun to read it to me when we were interrupted
by a call from Senator Hanna. Dr. Talmage particularly admired Senator Hanna, and, as they
were great friends, the autobiography was forgotten for the rest of the evening. Knowing that
the Doctor was about to leave Washington the Senator had come to wish him goodby, and to urge
him to visit his brother at Thomasville, Georgia, where we were to stop on our way to Mexico.
I remember Senator Hanna said to the Doctor, "You will find the place very pretty; we own a
good deal of property there, so much so that it could easily be called Hannaville." The next
morning we started for the City of Mexico, going direct to Charleston, where the Doctor preached.
He was entertained a good deal there, and we witnessed the opening of the Charleston Exposition.

From Charleston we went to Thomasville, Georgia, where we spent a week, during which time the
Doctor preached and lectured twice at nearby places. It was here that we met the first accident
of our journey. Just as we were steaming into Thomasville we ran into a train ahead, and there
was some loss of life and great damage. Fortunately we were in the last Pullman car of the
train. I have always believed that the shock of this accident was the beginning of the end
for Dr. Talmage. He showed no fear, and he gave every assistance possible to others; but, in
the tension of the moment, in his own self-restraint for the sake of others, I think that he
overtaxed his strength more than he realised. I never wanted to see a train again, and begged
the Doctor to let us remain in Thomasville the rest of our lives. The next morning, however,
Dr. Talmage started out on a preaching engagement in the neighbourhood by train, but we remained
behind. Our stay in Thomasville was made very enjoyable by the relatives of Senator Hanna,
whose beautiful estates were a series of landscape pictures I shall always remember. Although
the Doctor was obliged to be away on lecturing engagements three times during the week he enjoyed
the drives about Thomasville with us while he was there. Our destination after leaving Thomasville
was New Orleans, where Dr. Talmage was received as if he had been a national character. He
was welcomed by a distinguished deputation with the utmost cordiality. The Christian Herald
said of this occasion: "When he went on the following Sunday to the First Presbyterian Church
he found a great multitude assembled, the large building densely packed within and a much vaster
gathering out of doors unable to obtain admittance. Thousands went away disappointed. He spoke
with even more than usual force and conviction." Never were we more royally entertained or
fêted than we were here. From New Orleans we went to San Antonio, where we stopped off for
two or three days' sight-seeing. The Doctor was urged to preach and lecture while he was there;
but he excused himself on the ground of a previous engagement, promising, however, to lecture
in San Antonio on his return trip to Washington.

On our way from San Antonio to the City of Mexico our train ran into one of the sand-storms,
for which the Mexican country is famous at certain times of the year; and we were at a standstill
on a side track at a small station for twenty-four hours. The food was execrable, the wind
and sand were choking, and the whole experience trying in the extreme. We were warned against
thieves of the neighbourhood, and, during the night we were locked in the cars to ensure the
safety of our belongings. In spite of these precautions a shawl which the Doctor valued, because
it had been presented to him by the citizens of Melbourne, Australia, was stolen during the
night through an open window. They were not bashful those thieves of the sandstorm. From a
private car attached to the rear of our train they stole a refrigerator bodily off the platform.

The Doctor had long been suffering from his throat, and all these annoyances had the effect
of increasing the painful symptoms to such a degree that when we finally got into the city
of Mexico on Saturday, March 1st, it was necessary to call a physician. Dr. Talmage had brought
with him a number of letters of introduction from Washington to people in the City of Mexico,
but the Mexican minister had written ahead of us, and on the day we arrived people left their
cards and extended invitations that promised to keep us socially busy every day of our week's
visit.

The Doctor was ailing a little, I thought, but not seriously. He had a slight cold. Although
he had planned to preach only in the Presbyterian Church a week from our arrival, the people
of the other Protestant denominations urged him with such importunity that he agreed to preach
for them on the first Sunday, the day after our arrival. This was an unexpected strain on Dr.
Talmage after a very trying journey; but he never could refuse to preach, no matter how great
his fatigue. On the following Tuesday a luncheon was given Dr. Talmage by General Porfirio
Diaz, the President of the Mexican Republic, at his palace in Chapultepec. The Doctor enjoyed
a long audience with the aged statesman, during which the mutual interests and prospects of
the two countries were freely discussed, President Diaz manifesting himself, as always, a friend
and admirer of our government and people. During the afternoon a cold wind had come up, and
the drive home increased the Doctor's indisposition, so that he was obliged to confine himself
to his room. Still he was up and about, and we felt no alarm whatever. On Thursday night, he
complained of a pain at the base of his brain, and at about four in the morning I was awakened
by him:--

"Eleanor," he said, "I seem to be very ill; I believe I am dying." The shock was very great,
it was such a rare thing for him to be ill. We sent for the best American physician in the
city of Mexico, Dr. Shields, who diagnosed the Doctor's case as grippe. He at once allayed
my fears, assuring me that it would not be serious.

Dr. Talmage had promised to lecture on Friday, March 7th, and we had some trouble to prevent
him from keeping this engagement. Dr. Shields insisted that Dr. Talmage should not leave his
room, declaring that the exertion would be too much for him. Not until Dr. Shields had assured
Dr. Talmage that the people could be notified by special handbills and the newspapers would
he consent to break the engagement.

On Friday night Dr. Talmage grew worse; and finally he asked to be taken home, personally making
arrangements with Dr. Shields to travel with us as far as the Mexican border, as my knowledge
of Spanish was very limited. Eventually it became necessary for Dr. Shields to go all the way
with us. In the great sorrow that the people of Mexico felt over the sudden illness of Dr.
Talmage, their regret at his cancelled engagements was swallowed up, and there was one great
wave of sympathy which touched us not a little.

The journey to Washington was a painful one. Dr. Talmage kept growing worse. All day long he
lay on the couch before me in our drawing-room on the train, saying nothing--under the constant
care of the physician. Telegrams and letters followed the patient all the way from Mexico to
the Capital city. At every station silent, awe-stricken crowds were gathered to question of
the state of the beloved sufferer. In New Orleans we had to stay over a day, so as to secure
accommodation on the train to Washington. While there many messages of condolence were left
at the hotel, a party of ladies calling especially to thank me for the "great care I was taking
of their Dr. Talmage."

On our route to the national city, I remember the Doctor drew me down beside him to speak to
me. He was then extremely weak and his voice was very low: "Eleanor, I believe this is death,"
he said.

The long journey, in which years seemed compressed into days, at last came to a close. The
train pulled up in Washington, and our own physician, Dr. Magruder, met us at the station.
Dr. Talmage was borne into his home in a chair, and upstairs into his bedroom, where already
the angel of death had entered to welcome and guard him, though, alas! we knew it not, and
still hoped against hope. Occasional rallies took place; but evidences of cerebral inflammation
appeared, and the patient sank into a state of unconsciousness, which was only a prelude to
death. Bulletins were given to the public daily by the attending physicians; and if aught could
have assuaged the anguish of such moments it would have been the universal interest and sympathy
shown from all parts of the world.

Readers will pardon me if I reproduce from The Christian Herald a record of the last scene.
It is hard "to take down the folded shadows of our bereavement" and hold it even to the gaze
of friends.

"After a painful illness, lasting several weeks, America's best-beloved preacher, the Reverend
Thomas DeWitt Talmage, passed from earth to the life above, on April 12th, 1902. Ever since
his return from Mexico, where he was prostrated by a sudden attack which rapidly assumed the
form of cerebral congestion, he had lain in the sick chamber of his Washington home, surrounded
by his family and cared for by the most skilful physicians. Each day brought its alternate
hopes and fears. Much of the time was passed in unconsciousness; but there were intervals when,
even amid his sufferings, he could speak to and recognise those around him. No murmur or complaint
came from his lips; he bore his suffering bravely, sustained by a Higher Power. The message
had come which sooner or later comes to all, and the aged servant of God was ready to go; he
had been ready all his life.

"Occasional rallies took place, raising hopes which were quickly abandoned. From April 5th
to April 12th these rallies occurred at frequent intervals, always followed by a condition
of increased depression, more or less augmented fever and partial unconsciousness. On Saturday,
April 12th, a great change became apparent. For many hours the patient had been unconscious.
As the day wore on, it became evident that he could not live through another night. All of
Dr. Talmage's family--his wife, his son, the Rev. Frank DeWitt Talmage, of Chicago; Mrs. Warren
G. Smith and Mrs. Daniel Mangam, of Brooklyn; Mrs. Allen E. Donnan, of Richmond; and Mrs. Clarence
Wycoff and Miss Talmage, were gathered in the chamber of death. Dr. G.L. Magruder, the principal
physician, was also in attendance at the last. At 9.25 o'clock p.m., the soul took flight from
the inanimate clay, and the spirit of the world's greatest preacher was released."

The Rev. T. Chalmers Easton, an old and valued friend of Dr. Talmage, was in frequent attendance
upon him, and never ceased his ministrations until the eyes of the beloved one were closed
in death. Can we compress the ocean into a dewdrop? No more is it possible to condense into
one brief hour what is due to the memory of our beloved and illustrious friend. His moral courage
was only equalled by his giant frame and physical strength. He was made of the very stuff that
martyrs are made of: one of the most remarkable individualities of our time. A man of no negative
qualities, aggressive and positive.

"His whole soul was full of convictions of right and duty. A firm friend, a man of ready recognition,
a human magnet in his focalising power. He was true in every deed, and never needed a veil
to be drawn.... If, as his personal friend for more than twenty years, I should attempt to
open up the treasures of his real greatness, where shall we find more of those sterling virtues
that poets have sung, artists portrayed, and historians commended? He was truly a great man--a
man of God!

"The last years of his life were full of happiness in the living companionship of her who so
sadly mourns his departure. He frequently spoke to me of the great inspiration brought into
these years by her ceaseless devotion to all his plans and work, making what was burdensome
in his accumulating literary duties a pleasure.... The last fond look of recognition was given
to his beloved wife, and the last word that fell from his lips, when far down in the valley,
was the sweetest music to his ears--'Eleanor.'

"It was said once by an eminent writer that when Abraham Lincoln, the forest-born liberator,
entered Heaven, he threw down at God's throne three million yokes as the trophies of his great
act of emancipation; as great as that was, I think it was small, indeed, compared with the
tens of thousands of souls Talmage redeemed from the yokes of sin and shame by the glorious
Gospel preached with such fervour and power of the Holy Ghost. What a mighty army stood ready
to greet him at the gates of the heavenly city as the warrior passed in to be crowned by his
Sovereign and King!"

The funeral services were held at the Church of the Covenant, Washington, on April 15th. The
ceremony began at 5 p.m., with the "Dead March from Saul," and lasted considerably over an
hour. The coffin rested immediately in front of the pulpit, and over it was a massive bed of
violets. On a silver plate was the inscription:

    THOMAS DEWITT TALMAGE,
    JANUARY 7TH, 1832-APRIL 12TH, 1902

The floral offerings were numerous, including a wreath of white roses and lilies of the valley
sent by President and Mrs. Roosevelt. The officiating clergymen were the Rev. Dr. T.S. Hamlin,
pastor of the Church; the Rev. Dr. T. Chalmers Easton, of Washington; and the Rev. Drs. S.J.
Nicols, and James Demarest, of Brooklyn. A male quartette sang: "Lead, Kindly Light," a favourite
hymn of Dr. Talmage; "Beyond the Smiling and the Weeping"; and "It is well with my Soul." The
addresses of the Reverend Doctors were eulogistic of the dead preacher, of whom they had been
intimate friends for more than a quarter of a century. The body lay in state four hours, during
which thousands passed in review around it.

At midnight the remains of Dr. Talmage were conveyed by private train to Brooklyn, where the
burial took place in Greenwood Cemetery. The funeral cortége arrived about ten o'clock in the
morning; hundreds were already in the cemetery, waiting to behold the last rites paid to one
they revered and loved. The Episcopal burial service was read by the Rev. Dr. Howard Suydam,
an old friend and classmate of Dr. Talmage, who made a brief address, and concluded the simple
ceremonies by the recital of the Lord's Prayer.

Tributes were paid to the illustrious dead all over the civilised world, and in many languages;
while thousands of letters of condolence and telegrams assured the family in those days of
affliction that human hearts were throbbing with ours and fain would comfort us.

INDEX

Abbott, Emma, her bequest to the Brooklyn Tabernacle, 244;
  character, 244.
Aberdeen, Lord and Lady, 299.
Adams, Edwin, 71.
Adams, John, his administration, 8.
Adler, Dr., 118.
Agnus, General Felix, 223.
Alba, 368.
Albany, intemperance, 45;
  bribery, 46;
  lobbyists driven out, 132.
Alice, Princess, her death, 90.
Allen, Barbara, case of, 82.
"America," s.s., length of voyage, 135.
Ames, Coates, 74.
Amoy, 19.
Anarchists, execution of, 198.
Anglo-American Commission, members of the, 325.
Annapolis, 326.
Arkell, W.J., 224.
Arthur, Chester A., elected President, 115;
  relinquishes office, 143;
  at Lexington, 188, 278;
  his death, 188.
Astor, Mrs. William, 55;
  her death, 200;
  will, 200.
Atlantic, passage across, reduction, 99.
Austen, Colonel, 221, 241.
Avery, Miss Mary, her marriage, 25 note.

Baden-baden, 388.
Bakewell, 351.
Ball club, a ministerial, 49.
Banks, Rev. Dr. Louis Albert, 281.
Barnes, Rev. Alfred, 48.
Barnes, General Alfred C., 241.
Barnes, Alfred S., 207.
Bartholdi statue, 149, 150.
Baskenridge, 4.
Bayne, John, heroism of, 134.
Beaconsfield, Lord, 104;
  amount given for his "Endymion," 107, 109.
Beck, Senator, 276.
Bedloe's Island, 149.
Beecher, Rev. Henry Ward, his views on theology, 119;
  celebration of his fortieth year of pastoral service, 186;
  character of his discourses, 187.
Belfast, 391.
Belgium, King Leopold of, in Paris, 388.
Belleville, Reformed Church at, 18.
Bellows, Rev. Dr., 116.
Benton, Thomas H., 104.
Berg, Rev. Dr., 48.
Bergh, Professor Henry, his defence of animals, 100;
  opposition to vivisection, 100;
  his death, 208.
Berlin, 374.
Bethune, George W., 186.
Betting, practice of, in America, 147.
Bible, Higher Criticism, 253.
Bill, Buffalo, 261.
Bird, Mrs., 244.
Birds, the slaughter of, 184.
Birmingham, 267.
Birmingham, Alabama, cyclone at, 340.
Blackburn, Governor, 275;
  his reception of Dr. Talmage, 276;
  speech, 278.
Blackburn, Mrs., 278.
Blaine, James G., candidate for the Presidency, 138;
  reports against, 138;
  his vigour and exhaustion, 139;
  reception at the White House, 144;
  cartoons of, 175.
Boardman, Rev. Dr., 48.
Bobolinks, number of, killed, 184.
Bobrinsky, Count, 263, 283.
Boer War, 347.
Bond, Mr., 72.
Bonnet & Co., failure of, 76.
Bonynge, Mrs., 261.
Boody, Hon. David A., 241, 281.
Boston, conflagration of 1872, 231;
  Union Church of 49.
Bound Brook, 9.
Bowery Mission, anniversary, 395.
Bowles, Samuel, 131.
Brainerd, Dr., 38.
Branch, F.H., 269.
Brewer, Justice, 337.
Brewers' Association, demand, 162.
Bribery, practice of, 165-167.
Briggs, Dr., 245.
Brighton Beach, races at, 147.
Broadhead, Rev. Dr., 91.
Brooklyn, corrupt condition, 64, 69, 75;
  custom of carrying firearms, 75;
  standard of commerce, 75;
  Bill for a new city charter, 78;
  number crossing the ferries, 78;
  Lafayette Avenue railroad scheme, 79, 88;
  police force, 82;
  management of public taxes, 82;
  spread of communism, 83;
  reign of terror, 87;
  bridge, 99;
  cost, 120;
  opened, 122;
  improvement in local administration, 99;
  number of pastors, 120;
  pool rooms opened, 147;
  railway strike, 167;
  establishment of a labour exchange, 167;
  new jail, 175;
  pulpit builders, 186;
  committee of investigation, 193;
  ovation on the return of Dr. Talmage, 241.
Brooklyn, the central Church of, 49, 50, 53;
  alterations, 57.
Brooklyn Tabernacle, the first, 55;
  dedication, 3, 61, 62, 249;
  enlarged, 62;
  rededication, 62;
  amount of collections, 62, 63;
  burnt down, 65, 229, 231, 284-286;
  size of the new, 67, 252;
  law-suit, 94;
  prosperity, 162;
  appeal for funds to rebuild, 232;
  trustees, 233;
  subscribers, 234;
  consecration of the ground, 234;
  cost, 242;
  position, 242;
  rent of pews, 243;
  corner-stone laid, 245;
  contents, 245;
  opened, 249;
  financial difficulties, 268;
  celebration festival of the 25th anniversary of Dr. Talmage's
    pastorate, 280-283;
  letter from the Trustees, 287.
Brooks, Erastus, 131.
Brooks, Phillips, 261, 272.
Brower, Commissioner George V., 241.
Brown, Henry Eyre, 281.
Brown, Dr. John, 60.
Brown, Dr., amount of his salary, 247.
Brown, Senator, of Georgia, 110.
Bryan, William Jennings, 406;
  his wonderful voice, 406.
Bryant, William Cullen, his death, 85;
  incident of, 85;
  "Thanatopsis," 86;
  his noble character, 86.
Buchanan, James, President, his reply cablegram to Queen Victoria, 250.
Buckley, Dr., 120.
Buffalo, 408.
Bunker Hill, 156.
Burnside, Senator, 115.
Burr, Aaron, his infamy, 8.
Burrows, Senator, 337.
Bush, Dr., his advice to students, 208.
Bushnell, Giles F., 234.
Butler, Ben F., nominated Governor of Massachusetts, 88;
  candidate for the Presidency, 121.
Butter, Rev. T.G., 62.
Byrnes, Inspector, at the Press Club, 223.

Cable service, a cheaper, 135.
Cablegram, the first, 250.
Campbell, Superintendent, 81.
Canada, 326, 405.
Canton, Ohio, 306.
Carey, Senator, 256;
  at Cheyenne, 104.
Carleton, Will, 317.
Carlisle, Mr., 128.
Carlyle, Thomas, his house, 97;
  portrait, 98;
  library, 98;
  death-bed, 110;
  his opinion of Americans, 184.
Carnegie, Andrew, his gift of a library to Washington, 335.
Carpenter, Samuel, 223.
Carroll, Mr., 102.
Carson, Rev. Dr. John F., 281.
Carson, Joseph E., 234.
Cartwright, Sir Richard, 325.
Case, James S., 224.
Catlin, General, 157.
"Central-America," sinks, 134.
Chambers, Rev. Dr., 3.
Chapin, Mayor, 241.
Charleston, 414;
  earthquake at, 178.
Chase, Salmon P., his death, 188.
Chatsworth, 353-355.
Chattanooga, 339.
Chelsea, 97.
Cheyenne, 104;
  fashions in, 106.
Chicago, 99;
  Calvary Church of, 49;
  spread of communism, 83;
  railway strike, 167;
  execution of anarchists, 198;
  conflagration of 1871, 231.
Chili, war with Peru, 117.
Chinese, legislative effort to exclude, 90;
  exclusion of, 173;
  dress, 173;
  immigration Bill, 304.
Chloroform, first use of, 207, 356.
Choate, Mr., 360.
Cholera, experiments on, 162.
Christian Herald, extract from,
    on the illness and death of Dr. Talmage, 419.
Christiania, 365.
Chrysanthemum, rage for the, 158.
Church fairs, pastoral letter against, 72:
Cincinnati, 276;
  differences in clock time, 189.
"City of Paris," 235.
"City of Rome," 133.
Civil War, 38;
  result, 42, 74.
Clarion, Mdme, 72.
Clay, Henry, 104;
  his death, 188.
Clement, Judge, 241.
Cleveland, Grover, candidate, 117;
  elected Governor of New York, 121;
  candidate for the Presidency, 138;
  elected, 140;
  his mother's Bible, 144;
  reception of Mr. Blaine, 144;
  cartoons, 175;
  marriage, 176;
  his exercise of the right of veto, 180;
  tour, 198;
  message to Congress, 200;
  his intercourse with Dr. Talmage, 301-306;
  attack of rheumatism, 303;
  objections to the Chinese Immigration Bill, 304;
  attacks against, 306.
Cleveland, Mrs., 297;
  her characteristics, 300, 301.
Cleveland, Miss Rose, 300.
Clinton, DeWitt, 102.
Coates, A.E., 234.
Cockerill, Col. John A., at the Press Club, 223.
Colfax, Schuyler, 141.
Collier, Judge, 363.
Collier, Miss Rebekah, 346;
  her diary, 350.
Collins, Mr. and Mrs. John, 261.
Collyer, Dr. Robert, amount of his salary, 247.
Colorado springs, 320.
Colquitt, Senator, 256.
Commons, House of, dynamite explosion, 142.
Communism, theory of, 83.
Coney Island, 147, 179.
Conkling, Senator Roscoe, his opposition to the Silver Bill, 80;
  characteristics, 209;
  death, 209.
Constantinople, earthquake, 191.
Converse, Charles Cravat, 50.
Coombs, Mr., 257.
Cooper, Fenimore, 85.
Cooper, Peter, 55, 57, 70.
Copenhagen, 363
Corbit, Rev. William P., 33-35.
Cork, 391.
Coronado Beach, 320, 322.
Corrigan, Archbishop, 191.
Courtney, Judge, 241.
Cox, Rev. Dr. Samuel H., 186.
Cox, Mr., 128;
  appointed minister to Turkey, 146;
  his nicknames, 146.
Cradle, the family, 2.
Creeds, revision of the, 244.
Crosby, Dr., his ecclesiastical trial, 101.
Croy, Peter, 17.
Crystal Palace, banquet given to Dr. Talmage at, 267.
Cuba, victory in, 320.
Culver, John Y., 241.
Curry, Daniel, 196.

Dana, Richard Henry, his death, 93;
  literary works, 94.
Daniel, Senator, 256.
Darling, Charles S., 233, 269.
Davenport, E.L., 71.
Davis, Jefferson, 339.
Davis, Sir Louis, 325.
Deer Park, 409.
Demarest, Rev. Dr. James, at the funeral of Dr. Talmage, 422.
Democratic party, 46.
Denmark, the national flower "Golden Rain," 363.
Denmark, Crown Prince and Princess of, receive Dr. Talmage, 364.
Denver, 99, 320;
  its age, 105;
  picture galleries, 106.
Depau, Mr., his bequest to religion, 194.
Depew, Chauncey M., 223.
Derbyshire, 351.
Dewey, Admiral, 348.
DeWitt, Dr., 187.
DeWitt, Gasherie, 31.
Diaz, Gen. Porfirio, President of Mexico, 417;
  his interview with Dr. Talmage, 417.
Dickens, Charles, result of insomnia, 62.
Dickey, Dr., 374.
Dilke, Sir Charles, 179.
Divorce, views on, 237.
Dix, John A., 102.
Dix, Dr. Morgan, amount of his salary, 247.
Dixon, Rev. A.C., 281.
Dodge, William E., 55, 57.
Donnan, Mrs. Allen E., 420.
Doty, Ethan Allen, 224.
"Dow Junior's Patent Sermons," 16.
Dowling, Rev. Dr. John, 26.
"Dream, The Celestial," sketch, 423.
Due West, 338.
Duncan, John, 31.
Duncan, William, 31.

"Earth Girdled, The," publication of, 289.
Earthquake at Charleston, 178;
  Constantinople, 191.
East Hampton, 57, 274, 338, 408.
Eastern, Rev. T. Chalmers, on the death of Dr. Talmage, 420;
  at his funeral, 422.
Edinburgh, 60, 97, 356.
Edison, Prof. Thomas, 89.
Education, views on, 152.
Ellis, Hon. E.J., 81.
Erskine Theological College, Due West, 338.
Evarts, Hon. William M., 283, 288.
Ewer, Rev. Dr., 123.

Fairbanks, Vice-president, 337.
Fairchild, Benjamin L., 234.
Falls, Samuel B., 38.
Far-Rockaway, First Presbyterian Church at, 229.
Farwell, Senator, 261.
Faulkner, Senator, 325.
Ferguson, James B., 269.
Ferron, Dr., his experiments with cholera, 162.
Field, Cyrus W., lays the cable, 249.
Field, Chief Justice, his death, 336.
Finney, Dr., his revival meetings, 4.
Fish, Rev. Dr., 29.
Fish, Hamilton, Secretary to
  General Grant, 70.
Fiske, Steven, 223.
"Florida," disaster of, 133.
Flower, Roswell P., 223.
Folger, Mr., 117.
Food, adulteration of, 131.
Foster, John, 53.
Fox, George L., 71.
Fox, G.V., 266.
Frankfort, Kentucky, 275.
Franklin, Benjamin, 173.
Frazer, Dr., 120.
Free trade question, 128.
Freeman, Mr., 94.
Frelinghuysen, Dominie, 149.
Frelinghuysen, Frederick, 149.
Frelinghuysen, Frederick T., 115, 144;
  his death, 149.
Frelinghuysen, Gen. John, 149.
Frelinghuysen, Senator Theodore, 149.
Fulton Ferry, new bridge at, 99.
Funk, Dr., 157.

Gallagher, Dr., 120.
Gallows, death by the, 198.
Gambling Pool Bill, protest against, 194.
Gambetta, 122.
Garcelon, Governor, 102.
Garfield, President, his election, 106;
  attempt on his life, 111, 112;
  views on Mormonism, 113;
  reforms, 113;
  result of his death, 113;
  sermons, 114;
  characteristics, 115.
Garfield, Mrs., amount subscribed, 145.
Gateville, 9.
Gedney, Judge, 224.
Geogheghan, the poet, 224.
George, Henry, 223.
Gettysburg, battle of, 38.
Gilbert, Judge, 193.
Gilmore, Pat, 224.
Gladstone, Mrs., 240;
  her portrait, 240;
  illness, 357.
Gladstone, Mrs. Herbert, 357.
Gladstone, Rt. Hon. W.E., 104, 150;
  his policy of Home Rule for Ireland, 173, 239;
  reception of Dr. Talmage, 236;
  American stories, 237;
  view on divorce, 237;
  religion, 238;
  library, 240;
  congratulations, 284.
Glasgow, 355.
Goldsmith, Oliver, his struggles as an author, 108.
Gordon, Senator, 256.
Gorman, Senator, 331.
Gough, John B., his gift of oratory, 164;
  dramatic power, 164.
Gould, Jay, 172.
Grace, Mr., Mayor of New York, 121.
Grain, failure of, in Europe, 103;
  blockade in the United States, 103.
Grant, General, President, 92, 279;
  his pension, 145;
  malady, 145, 148.
Grant, Mayor, at the Press Club, 223.
Greeley, Horace, 131, 175;
  his sufferings from insomnia, 62.
Greenport, 50 note.
Greenwood cemetery, 422.
Greenwood, Judge, 199.
Greer, Dr., amount of his salary, 247.
Gregg, Rev. Dr., 281.
Grévy, President, his resignation, 200.
Grier, Dr., President of the Erskine Theological College, Due West, 338.
Grinnell, Moses H., 57.
Guiteau, assassinates President Garfield, 113.

Haddon Hall, 351-353;
  romance of, 352.
Hagerstown, 221.
Hall, Rev. Dr., 154.
Hall, Dr. John, amount of his salary, 247.
Hall, Rev. Dr. Newman, 97;
  at the Mansion House, 260.
Hall, Robert, 53.
Halstead, Murat, 283.
Hamilton, Rev. J. Benson, 241.
Hamilton Club, 224.
Hamlin, Rev. Dr. T.S., at the funeral of Dr. Talmage, 422.
Hampton, Governor Wade, 81.
Hancock, John, 173.
Handy, Moses P., 223.
Hanna, Rev. Dr., his death, 254.
Hanna, Senator, 414.
Hardman, Dr., 21,
  his method of examining Dr. Talmage, 22.
Harlan, Justice, 337.
Harper, E.B., 224.
Harrisburg, 396;
  intemperance, 45;
  bribery, 46.
Harrison, President Benjamin, 257.
Harrison, Rev. Leon, 241.
Harrison, William Henry, 114, 257.
Hatch, A.S., President of the New York Exchange, 135.
Hatch, Rufus, 224.
Hawarden, 236, 357.
Hawthorne, Nathaniel, 107.
Hayes, President, 70;
  character of his message, 74.
Hazlitt, William, his struggles as an author, 108.
Helsingfors, 368.
Henderson, Mr., 321.
Hendricks, Thomas A., Vice-president, 158;
  his character, 159;
  invulnerability to attacks, 159;
  religious views, 160.
Hendrix, Joseph C., 124, 241, 283.
Hermann, 223.
Herschel, Lord, 325;
  his illness and death, 326.
Hewitt, Abram S., elected Mayor of New York, 188.
Hicks-Lord case, 76.
High Bridge, 275, 276.
Hill, Rev. Dr. John Wesley, 396.
Hill, Rowland, 97.
Hill, Senator, 105.
Hilton, Judge Henry, 116, 223.
Holy Land, 235.
Holyrood Palace, 59.
Home Missionary meeting, in Carnegie Hall, 305.
Howard, Joseph, 224.
Howell, Mayor, his report on the condition of Brooklyn, 81.
Hudson, 37.
Hugo, Victor, 107.
Hull, Isaac, 125.
Huntington, Dr., amount of his salary, 247.
Hutchinson, Dr. Joseph, 196.
Hydrophobia, inoculations against, 162.

India, famine in, 298.
Indiana, elections, 124.
Ingersoll, Colonel Robert, 70.
Inness, Fred, 221.
Insomnia, sufferings from, 62.
Iowa, prohibition in, 193.
Ireland, Home Rule for, 173, 239.
Irish Channel, crossing the, 391.
Irving, Washington, 85;
  "Knickerbocker," 94;
  appointed Minister to Spain, 146.
Isle of Wight, 389.

Jackson, Gen. Andrew, 156.
Jaehne, Mr., his incarceration, 175.
Jamaica, Long Island, synodical trial at, 101.
James, General, his reforms in the Post Office, 113.
Jamestown, 339.
Jefferson, Joseph, 332.
Jefferson, Thomas, inaugurated, 174.
Jews, persecution of, in Russia, 118;
  settle in America, 119.
Johnson, Andrew, President, charges against, 157.
Johnson, Dr. Samuel, 53;
  his epitaph, 210.
Johnstown, result of the flood at, 228.

"Kaiser Wilhelm der Grosse," 346.
Kansas, 193;
  its age, 105;
  prohibition in, 193.
Katrine, Loch, 356.
Kean, Edmund, 71.
Keeley, Dr. Leslie, 254.
Keller, John W., 224.
Kennedy, Dr., 187.
Killarney lakes, 391.
King, Gen. Horatio C., 224, 241.
Kingsley, Mr., 207.
Kinsella, Thomas, 100, 130.
Kintore, Earl of, 298, 356.
Klondike, arrival of gold-diggers from, 321.
Knox, E.M., 234.
Knox, John, his grave, 355.
Knox, J. Amory, 224, 234.
Krebs, Dr., 187.

Lafayette Avenue, railroad scheme, defeat of, 79.
Lake Port, Maryland, 409.
Lamb, Col. Albert P., 224.
Lamb, Charles, on the adulteration of food, 131.
Lambert, Dr., case of, 75.
Lang, Anton, takes part in the Passion Play, 380.
Langtry, Mrs., 391.
Lansing, Rev. Dr. I.J., 283.
Laurence, Amos, 55.
Laurier, Sir Wilfred, 325.
Lawrence, E.H., 233.
Lawrence, F.W., 286.
Leadville, its age, 105;
  number of telephones, 105;
  vigilance committee, 106.
Leamington, 358.
Lectures, fees for, 40.
Lee, General, his invasion of Pennsylvania, 38.
Leeds, collection at, 97.
Lennox, James, 55, 194.
Leslie, Frank, the pioneer of pictorial journalism, 102.
Lexington, 188, 275, 276.
Liberty, statue of, 148-150.
Lies, system of, 197.
Lincoln, Abraham, 37;
  violation of his sepulchre, 161;
  his letter, 397.
Lincoln, Robert, Secretary of War, 113.
Lind, Jenny, 14.
Lindsay, Rev. E.P., 338.
Liverpool, 357;
  addresses given at, 97.
Locke, Commissioner of Appeals, 107.
Lodge, Henry Cabot, 224.
Lomond, Loch, 355.
London, Lord Mayor of, his banquet at the Mansion House, 260.
Long Island, 229.
Los Angeles, 322.
Louisiana, State of, 80.
Low, Seth, Mayor of Brooklyn, 121, 133.
Lowell, James Russell, 145.
Lowndes, Governor, 326.
Lyle, Lady, 389.

Macaulay, Lord, 188.
Mackenzie, Dr., his death, 254.
Mackey, Mrs., 261.
Mackinaw Island, 339.
Madison, 273.
Magruder, Dr. G.L., 418, 420.
Maine, outbreak in, 102.
Malone, Rev. Father Sylvester, 281.
Manchester, Cavendish Chapel, 348.
Manderson, Senator, 256;
  his Bill for the arbitration of strikes, 172.
Mangam, Mrs. Daniel, 420.
Manning, Daniel, his death, 200.
Marietta, Ohio, 317.
Marriages, number of elopements, 137.
Martin, Mrs. Bradley, 261.
Martin, Pauline E., 234.
Mathews, Charles, his death, 85;
  story of, 85.
Matthews, T.E., 286.
McAdam, Judge David, 224.
McCauley, Jerry, 136.
McCormick, Cyrus, 194.
McDonald, Senator, 261.
McElroy, Dr., 187.
McGlynn, Father, 191.
McKean, John, 125.
McKinley, President, his congratulations, 284;
  election, 306;
  friendship with Dr. Talmage, 330;
  assassination, 409.
McLean, Alexander, 233.
McLean, Andrew, 241.
McLeod, Rev. Donald, installed pastor of the First Presbyterian
    Church in Washington, 341.
Mead, W.D., 269.
Memphis, 339.
Mendes, Rabbi F. De Sol, 281.
Merigens, George T., 38.
Mershon, Rev. S.L., 57, 274.
Mexico, 416.
Michigan, 339, 409.
Middlebrook, New Jersey, 1.
Minado, 320.
Ministers, amount of salaries, in the United States, 63.
Minneapolis, 99.
Mitchell, Dr., 120.
Mitford, 108.
Modjeska, Mdme., 332.
Molière, the comedian, 72.
Monona Lake, 273.
Monroe Doctrine, 304.
Montauk Point, purchase of, 99.
Montreal, 326.
Moore, Charles A., 224.
Moore, DeWitt, 39, 43.
Morey, forgeries, 106.
Morrisey, John, 69.
Moscow, 374.
Mott, Lucretia, the quakeress, 106.
Munich, 375.
Murphy, Mr., 207.

Nagle, Dr., 224.
Nansen, the explorer, 365.
Napier, Lord, his story of a wounded soldier, 239.
Nashville, 339.
Neilson, Judge Joseph, 133, 193, 204.
New, Mrs., 261.
New Brunswick Theological Seminary, 15.
New Orleans, 340, 415, 418;
  victory, 8.
New York, corrupt condition, 64; 69;
  spread of Communism, 83;
  Historical Society, gift to the library, 109;
  Passion Play, attempt to present, 121;
  pool rooms opened, 147;
  conflagration of 1835, 231;
  revival meetings, 407.
New York University, 14.
"New York," 258.
Newark, 19.
Newspaper reporter, day with a, 211-220.
Newspapers, reduction in the price, 123.
Newstead Abbey, 349.
Newton, Lady, 361.
Newton, Sir Alfred, Lord Mayor, 361.
Nichols, Governor, 81.
Nicols, Rev. Dr. S.J., at the funeral of Dr. Talmage, 422.
Nightingale, Florence, note from, 359;
  receives Dr. Talmage, 360.
North Cape, view from, of the Midnight Sun, 365, 366.
North River, first steamer, 8.
Northern Pacific Railroad Co., 126.
Nottingham, 260;
  Albert Hall, 348.
Nutting, A.J., 234.

Oakley, Rev. Mr., 51.
Ober-Ammergau Passion Play, 375;
  impressions of, 375-388;
  actors, 378.
Ocean Grove, 408.
"Oceanic," 391.
Ochiltree, Colonel Tom, 261;
  at the Press Club, 223.
Ogden, 104
Ohio, elections, 124;
  River, 276.
Olcott, George M., 224.
Omaha, 99,104;
  picture galleries, 106.
Osborne, Truman, 16.
"Our Dead President," sermon on, 410.

Packer, Asa D., 194.
Paine, Tom, 71.
Palmer, A.M., 261.
Panics, view on, 290-293.
Paris, 60, 236;
  Exposition of 1900, 362, 388.
Parker; Rev. Dr. Joseph, 259;
  his description of Dr. Talmage's sermon, 259;
  congratulations, 284.
Parkhurst, Dr., 258;
  amount of his salary, 247.
Parnell, C.S., in New York, 102;
  triumph on his return to England, 163.
Passaic River, 29.
Pasteur, Dr., his inoculations against hydrophobia, 162.
Patten, Dr., 120.
Paxton, Dr., amount of his salary, 247.
Payne, Mr., his song "Home, Sweet Home," 108.
Peabody, George, his will, 73.
Peace Jubilee, a national, 43.
Peck, General, defence of, 362.
Penn, William, 156.
Pennsylvania, invasion, 38;
  election, 124.
Peru, war with Chili, 117.
Peterhof, Palace of, 370.
Peters, Barnard, 281.
Phelps, Mr., 145.
Philadelphia, Second Reformed Church of, 37.
Phillips, Wendell, 127.
Pierce, Dr., 369.
Pierce, Mrs., 370.
Pierce. President, opens the World's Fair, 195.
Pierce, Senator, his Bill for a new city charter for Brooklyn, 78.
Piermont, 25.
Pilgrim Fathers, in New England, 156.
Pius IX., Pope, 77.
Policies, International, lecture on, 322.
Polk, Mrs., her pension, 145.
Pollock, Robert, ex-Governor, 22;
  report of his speech, 41.
"Pomerania," s.s., loss of, 89.
Pomeroy, Rev. C.S., 51.
Pond, Major, 96.
Poor, problem of the, 143.
Potomac, the, 38.
Pratt, Judge C.R., 133, 224.
Prayer, the influence of, 148.
Prentice, Mr., 207.
Press Club, dinners at, 223.
Pressly, Rev. David P., 338.
Preston, William C., 104.
Pretoria, capture of, 361.
Prime, Rev. Dr., 71.
Princeton, 301.

Queenstown, 391.

Railway strike, 166.
Rainsford, Dr., amount of his salary, 247.
Randall, Mr., 128.
Raymond, Henry J., 131.
Reed, Joseph, 166.
Reed, Speaker, 337.
"Rehypothication," crime of, 76.
Reid, Dr., 120.
Republican party, 46.
Reynolds, Judge, 193.
Rhode Island, 115.
Richards, Rev. Dr., 27.
Ridgeway, James W., 124.
Riley, his "Universal Philosophy," 107.
River and Harbour Bill, 143.
Robinson, Lincoln, 102.
Robinson, William E., 241, 253.
Roche, Rev. Spencer F., 281.
Rockport, new cable landed at, 135.
Rockwell, Rev. J.E., 50.
Roebling, Mr., 207.
Roosevelt, Theodore, 224, 422.
Roosevelt, Mrs., 422.
Rosa, Parepa, 43.
Roswell, Mr., 205.
Ruskin, John, 261;
  his literary works, 262.
Russia, 263;
  defeats Turkey, 77;
  persecution of the Jews, 118;
  famine, 264.
Russia, Alexander III.; Czar of, receives Dr. Talmage, 263-266;
  gift to him, 280.
Russia, Nicholas II., Czar of, receives Dr. Talmage, 371.
Russia, Czarina of, receives Mrs. Talmage, 371;
  her appearance, 371.
Russia, Dowager Empress of, receives Dr. Talmage, 372.
Russia, Nicholas, Grand Duke, 264.

Sacramento, 104;
  picture galleries, 106.
Sage, Russell, his loan to Brooklyn Tabernacle, 268.
Sailors, character of, 133.
St. Louis railway strike, 167.
Salt Lake City, 104, 320.
Salvation Army, meetings in Brooklyn, 222.
San Antonio, 415.
San Francisco, 322;
  the first Presbyterian Church of, 49;
  its age, 105;
  picture galleries, 106;
  amount paid by Chinese, 174.
Sand, George, character of her writings, 64.
Sanderson, driver of the stage coach, 11.
Sand-storm, a Mexican, 415.
Sanitary Protective League, organisation of, 143.
Santa Barbara, 322.
Saratoga, 319.
Scenery Chapel, 97.
Schenck, Dr. Noah Hunt, 141.
Schieren, Major, 281.
Schiller, the famous comedian, 72.
"Schiller," the, sinks, 134.
Schley, Admiral, 332, 336.
Schroeder, Frederick A., 99, 224.
Schuylkill River, 25 note.
Scott, Rev. James W., 22;
  his kindness to Dr. Talmage, 22-24;
  death, 24.
Scudder, Dr., 120.
Seattle, 321.
Seavey, George L., 135;
  his gift to the library of the Historical Society, New York, 109.
Seward, William H., 102;
  his death, 188.
Shafter, General, 336.
Shaftesbury, Lord, his funeral, 155;
  last public act, 155;
  President of various societies, 156.
Shannon, Patrick, 69.
Sharon Springs, 57.
Sharpsburg, 221.
Sheepshead Bay, races at, 147.
Sheffield, 357.
Shelbyville, 160.
Sheridan, Mr. and Mrs., 108.
Sherman, James, 97.
Sherman, John, 256, 284.
Sherman, Gen. William T., 242.
Shields, Dr., 417;
  attends Dr. Talmage, 417;
  accompanies him home, 418.
Siberia, 263.
Silver Bill, passed, 80.
Simpson, Bishop, 136.
Simpson, Sir Herbert, 356.
Simpson, Sir James Y., his use of chloroform, 207, 356.
Skillman, Dr., 11.
Slater, Mr., 194.
Slocum, General, 133.
Smith, Charles Emory, 223.
Smith, Rev. J. Hyatt, 189;
  his life of self-sacrifice, 190.
Smith, Mrs. Warren G., 420.
Somerville, 3, 9.
Soudan war, 146.
Soulard, A.L., 268.
Southampton, 347.
South Carolina, 81.
Spain, war with the United States, 320;
  investigation into, 336.
Speer, Dr. Samuel Thayer, 186.
Spencer, Dr., 54.
Spencer, Rev. W. Ichabod, 186.
Spring, Dr. Gardiner, 54, 187.
Spurgeon, Rev. Charles H., 253;
  his death, 254.
Stafford, Marshal, 241.
Stanley, Dean, 116.
Staten Island, 161.
Stead, Mr., his crusade against crime, 153.
Steele, Dr., 120.
Steele, Commissioner of stamps, 107.
Stephens, Alexander H., 80.
Stevens, Mrs. Paran, 261.
Stevens, W., 30.
Stewart, Samuel B., 116.
Stillman, Benjamin A., 224.
Stockholm, Immanuel Church, 367.
Stone, Rev. Dr., 187.
Stone, Governor, 337, 346.
Storrs, Rev. R.S., pastor of the Church of Pilgrims, 186.
Stranahan, J.S.T., 120, 133, 224.
Stratford-on-Avon, 358;
  the "Red Horse Hotel," 97.
Strikes, 167;
  Bill for the arbitration of, 172.
Stuart, Francis H., 234.
Stuart, George H., 38.
Sullivan-Ryan prize fight, 117.
Summerfield, Dr. John, 187.
Sunderland, Rev. Dr. Byron W., 294, 410.
Suydam, Rev. Dr. Howard, at the burial of Dr. Talmage, 422.
Swansea, 267, 389.
Sweden, 367.
Swenson, Mr., 364.
Syracuse, 35.

Talmage, Catherine, her character, 3;
  conversion, 5;
  covenant with her neighbours, 5;
  death, 6.
Talmage, Daisy, 50 note.
Talmage, Daniel, 10.
Talmage, David, his Christian principles, 3;
  conversion, 5;
  mode of conducting prayer-meetings, 6;
  fearlessness, 7;
  sheriff, 7;
  scenes of his life, 8;
  death, 9;
  sons, 9.
Talmage, Edith, 50 note.
Talmage, Mrs. Eleanor, her Biographical Sketch of Dr. Talmage, 311;
  first meeting, 313;
  marriage, 314;
  accompanies him in his travels, 315, 319;
  attends his lectures, 316;
  held up in Yellowstone Park, 320;
  received by the Czarina, 371;
  dedicates the Wood Green Wesleyan Church, 390.
Talmage, Rev. Frank DeWitt, 50 note, 420.
Talmage, Rev. Goyn, 9.
Talmage, Rev. James R., 9.
Talmage, Jehiel, his conversion, 5.
Talmage, Jessie, 25 note.
Talmage, Rev. John Van Nest, 9;
  missionary at Amoy, 19;
  devotion to the Chinese, 91;
  death, 91;
  reticence, 92;
  work, 93.
Talmage, Mrs. Mary, 25 note.
Talmage, Maud, 50 note, 346, 355,420.
Talmage, May, 50 note, 235.
Talmage, Mrs. Susan, 50 note, 235.
Talmage, Thomas DeWitt, his birth, 1;
  ancestors, 2;
  father, 3;
  mother, 3;
  the family Bible, 3;
  conversion of his grand-parents and parents, 4;
  home, 9;
  childhood, 10;
  early religious tendencies, 10;
  at New York University, 14;
  New Brunswick Theological Seminary, 19;
  conversion, 16;
  first sermon, 19;
  ordination, 21-23;
  pastorate at Belleville, 25;
  marriage, 25 note;
  children, 25 note, 50 note;
  his first baptism, 26;
  first pastoral visitation, 27;
  first funeral, 29;
  pastorate at Syracuse, 35;
  first literary lecture, 36;
  call to Philadelphia, 37;
  amounts received for his lectures, 40, 96;
  at the National peace jubilee, 43;
  his fear of indolence, 48;
  ministerial ball club, 49;
  second marriage, 50 note;
  call to Brooklyn, 50;
  installed, 51;
  charges against, 51, 58, 94;
  character of his sermons, 53, 58, 315, 323, 395;
  establishes the first Brooklyn Tabernacle, 55;
  vacations at East Hampton, 57, 274, 338, 408;
  visits to Europe, 59, 153, 258, 346;
  impressions on hearing the organ at Freyburg, 59;
  meeting with Dr. John Brown, 60;
  in Paris, 60, 362, 388;
  sermons, 62, 220, 273, 286, 290, 296, 323, 336, 348, 356,
    358, 359, 389, 396, 410-412;
  on the size of the heavenly Jerusalem, 66;
  his opinion of Church fairs, 72;
  lecturing tours, 80, 84, 143, 159, 297, 326, 339, 348, 405, 408;
  opposes the effort to exclude the Chinese, 90;
  death of his brother John, 91;
  Gospel meetings, 96, 289;
  visits to the house of T. Carlyle, 97;
  trip to the West, 104, 172, 189;
  views on betting, 147;
  on education, 152;
  his numerous letters, 153-155;
  on the demands of Society, 169-171;
  views on war, 181;
  at Lexington, 188;
  protest against the Gambling Pool Bill, 194;
  proposal of a World's Fair, 195;
  on execution by electricity, 198;
  advocates free trade, 200;
  advice on books, 202-204;
  a day with a newspaper reporter, 212-220;
  his study, 212, 328;
  correspondence, 213-215;
  visitors, 215-218;
  appearance, 218, 343;
  pastoral visit, 219;
  chaplain of the "Old Thirteenth" Regiment, 221;
  his income, 221, 225, 246;
  dinners at the Press Club, 223;
  at the Hamilton Club, 224;
  restlessness, 226;
  mode of life, 226, 329;
  squib on, 228;
  on the result of the flood at Johnstown, 228;
  on the lessons learnt from conflagrations, 231;
  appeal for funds, 232;
  consecration of the ground, 234;
  his visit to the Holy Land, 235;
  attack of influenza, 236;
  visit to Mr.