ARCHÆOLOGICAL ESSAYS

ARCHÆOLOGICAL ESSAYS

BY THE LATE

SIR JAMES Y. SIMPSON, BART.

M.D., D.C.L.

ONE OF HER MAJESTY'S PHYSICIANS FOR SCOTLAND, AND PROFESSOR OF MEDICINE AND MIDWIFERY IN THE
UNIVERSITY OF EDINBURGH

EDITED BY

JOHN STUART, LL.D.

SECRETARY OF THE SOCIETY OF ANTIQUARIES OF SCOTLAND

VOL. I.

EDINBURGH

EDMONSTON AND DOUGLAS

PUBLISHERS TO THE SOCIETY OF ANTIQUARIES

MDCCCLXXII

Printed by R. & R. CLARK, Edinburgh.

THE EDITOR'S PREFACE.

The late Sir James Simpson, in the midst of his anxious professional labours, was wont to seek
for refreshment in the pursuit of subjects of a historical and archæological character, and
to publish the results in the Transactions of different Societies and in scientific journals.

Some of these papers are now scarce, and difficult of access; and a desire having been expressed
in various quarters for their appearance in a collected and permanent form, I was consulted
on the subject by Sir Walter Simpson, who put into my hands copies of the various essays, with
notes on some of them by his father, which seemed to indicate that he himself had contemplated
their republication.

Having for a long time been acquainted with their merits, I did not hesitate to express a strong
opinion in favour of their publication; and I accepted with pleasure the duty of editing them,
which Sir Walter requested me to perform.

The papers in question were the fruit of inquiries begun indeed as a relief from weightier
cares; but as it was not in their author's nature to rest satisfied with desultory and superficial
results in his treatment of any subject, so his archæological papers more resemble the exhaustive
treatises of a leisurely student, than the occasional efforts of one overwhelmed in professional
occupations.

In the present work will be found all the more important archæological papers of Sir James
Simpson, collected from the various sources indicated in the Table of Contents.

The subjects to the antiquities of which Sir James first directed his attention were connected
with his own profession; but, as time went on, his interest in historical pursuits deepened
and expanded, and the questions discussed by him became more varied.

It has been thought best to arrange the papers of a general historical scope in the first volume,
and those connected with professional antiquities in the second; but readers, who may wish
to trace the order in which they were written by the author, will find their various dates
in the Table.

The first paper, entitled "Archæology, its Past and its Future Work," was prepared as a lecture
to the Society of Antiquaries of Scotland. This was done with a care and elaboration which
are not always associated with such efforts; and, whether in indicating the object and end
of the archæological student's pursuits,--sketching the past progress of the study,--and specifying
the lines of research from which Scottish inductive archæology may be expected to derive additional
data and facts,--nothing more thoroughly practical could be desired; while in his resumé of
the difficulties and enigmas peculiar to Scottish antiquities, he may be said to have left
none of them untouched, his passing allusions being, in many instances, suggestive of their
solution.

The paper on "An old Stone-roofed Cell or Oratory in the Island of Inchcolm" affords an instance
of the author's careful observation, and his fertility of illustration.