In the beginning of the eighth century Guernsey was a favoured spot. Around, over the Continent
and the British Isles, had swept successive conquests with their grim train of sufferings for
the conquered; but these storm-clouds had not burst over the island. The shocks which preceded
the fall of the Roman Empire had not been felt, nor had the throes which inaugurated the birth
of Frankish rule in Gaul and Saxon supremacy in Britain, disturbed the prevailing tranquillity.
Occasional descents of pirates, Northmen from Scandinavian homes or Southmen from the Iberian
peninsula, had hitherto had a beneficial effect by keeping alive the martial spirit and the
vigilance necessary for self-defence. In the third century three Roman ships had been driven
on shore and lost; the legionaries who escaped had established themselves in the island, having
indeed for the moment no alternative. When their commander succeeded in communicating with
Gaul he suggested a permanent occupation, being secretly influenced by tales of mineral wealth
to which he had lent an ear. Disillusioned and recalled, he was followed by a sybarite, whose
palate was tickled by banquets of fish of which he wrote in raptures to his friends at Capri
and Brindisi. This excellent man, dying of apoplexy in his bath, was replaced by a rough soldier,
who lost no time in procuring the evacuation of a post where he saw with a glance that troops
were uselessly locked up. From this time nothing had been heard of the Romans; their occupation
had lasted forty years, and in another forty the only physical traces of it remaining were
a camp at Jerbourg, the nearly obliterated tessellated pavement and fragments of wall belonging
to the sybarite's villa, which occupied the site in the King's Mills Valley where the Moulin
de Haut now stands, the pond in the Grand Mare in which the voluptuary had reared the carp
over which, dressed with sauces the secret of which died with him, he dwelt lovingly when stretched
on his triclinium, and the basins at Port Grat in which he stored his treasured mullet and
succulent oysters. The islanders were of one mind in speeding the parting guests, but the generation
which saw them go were better men than their fathers who had trembled at the landing of the
iron-thewed demi-gods. Compelled to work as slaves, they had learnt much from their masters;
a knowledge of agriculture and of the cultivation of the grape, the substitution of good weapons
and implements of husbandry for those of their Celtic ancestors, improved dwellings, and some
insight into military discipline,--these were substantial benefits which raised them in some
respects above their Continental and British neighbours, among whom patriotism had, on the
disappearance of the civilization of the Romans, revived the more congenial barbarism. Arrivals
among them of Christian monks, scanty at first, more frequent since the landing of S. Augustine
in Britain, had also had a certain effect. The progress of conversion was, however, slow; the
people were bigoted, and the good fathers were compelled, as in Brittany, to content themselves
with a few genuine converts, wisely endeavouring rather to leaven the mass by grafting Christian
truths on the old superstitions than to court certain defeat, possible expulsion or massacre,
by striving to overthrow at once all the symbols of heathenism.

The island was larger in extent than it is at present, as, in addition to the Vale district,
the islet of Lihou, Vazon Bay, and the rock group known as the Hanois formed part of it. It
is with the events that altered this configuration that the following legend deals.

CHAPTER II.

SUPERSTITION.

    "Awestruck, the much-admiring crowd
    Before the virgin vision bowed,
    Gaz'd with an ever-new delight,
    And caught fresh virtues at the sight."

    EDWARD MOORÉ'S Fables.

On the 24th of June, in the year 708, merry crowds were thronging to Vazon Forest. It was a
lovely spot. The other portions of the island were bare and somewhat rugged; here the humidity
of the soil favoured the growth of fine, vigorous timber. On the low ground flourished oak
and sycamore, torn and bent near the shore where the trees met the force of the Atlantic gales,
growing freely and with rich verdure where better protected. On the higher slopes were massed
beech, birch, and the sweet chestnut which was even then domesticated in the island. Glades,
bursting with a wealth of flowers nurtured by the mildness of the climate, penetrated the wood
in every direction; streams bubbling up from springs, and forming little cascades where their
course was checked by granite boulders, lent an additional charm. Towards the centre of the
forest these streams united to form a lake, or rather a natural moat, surrounding an island
in the midst of which stood a gigantic oak. This was the only tree on the island; round it,
at even distances, were placed twelve stones, beyond which a meadow glittering with varied
hues extended to the surrounding water.

It was to this island that the holiday-makers were wending their way: young men and maidens,
and such elders as had vigour enough to traverse the rough tracks leading from the interior.
They were a small race, lithe and active, with strong black hair and dark eyes now twinkling
with merriment They poured over the wooden bridges into the precincts of the towering oak,
under which the elders seated themselves with the musicians, the younger people streaming off
to the clear ground between the stones and the water.

When all were assembled the music struck up at a signal from an elder. The instruments were
akin to the goat-skin pipes of Lower Brittany; the music wild, weird, appealing to the passion
if not melodious to the ear. At any rate the effect was inspiriting. First, the men danced,
the maidens seating themselves round the dancers and chanting the following words, to the rhythm
of which they swayed their bodies gracefully:--

    "Mille Sarrazins, mille Sarmates,
    Un jour nous avons tués.
    Mille, mille, mille, mille, mille Perses,
    Nous cherchons à present."

The dance, footed to this truculent chant, had no warlike features; beginning with a march,
or rather a tripping walk, it ended with feats in which each dancer defied his neighbour to
out-spring him; nor did the vocalists appear to expect representations of strife and doughty
deeds. The words, Roman by origin, as is clear from the allusion to the Persians, had been
adapted to a native air by the conquerors, and had been left by them as a legacy to the islanders.
Next, the maidens trod a measure, the men standing round and applauding; the dance was quiet
and soft, consisting principally of graceful movements of the body as if the dancers were getting
themselves into training for greater efforts; in this case the dancers themselves chanted words
suitable to the music. This ended, there was a pause before the principal business of the day
began, the dance in which both sexes joined, to be followed by the bestowal of a wreath on
the loveliest of the maidens.

During the pause it was evident that an unusual incident had occurred. The best-looking of
the girls were pouting, the attention of the youths was distracted. During the latter part
of the dance the applause had been intermittent; towards the close it had almost ceased. The
elders, looking about under their shaggy eyebrows, had not been long in discovering the cause,
and when they had found it allowed their attention to wander also.

