But next day the generals introduced the embassy to the army, and the soldiers passed a resolution
in the sense proposed: between themselves and the Paphlagonians there was to be a mutual abstinence
from injuries. After this the ambassadors went on their way, and the Hellenes, as soon as it
was thought that sufficient vessels had arrived, went on board ship, and voyaged a day and
a night with a fair breeze, keeping Paphlagonia on their left. And on the following day, arriving
at Sinope, they came to moorings in the harbour of Harmene, near Sinope (5). The Sinopeans,
though inhabitants of Paphlagonia, are really colonists of the Milesians. They sent gifts of
hospitality to the Hellenes, three thousand measures of barley with fifteen hundred jars of
wine. At this place Cheirisophus rejoined them with a man-of-war. The soldiers certainly expected
that, having come, he would have brought them something, but he brought them nothing, except
complimentary phrases, on the part of Anaxibius, the high admiral, and the rest, who sent them
their congratulations, coupled with a promise on the part of Anaxibius that, as soon as they
were outside the Euxine, pay would be forthcoming.

 (5) Harmene, a port of Sinope, between four and five miles (fifty
    stades) west of that important city, itself a port town. See
    Smith, "Dict. Geog.," "Sinope"; and Kiepert, op. cit. chap. iv.
    60.

At Harmene the army halted five days; and now that they seemed to be    17 so close to Hellas,
the question how they were to reach home not empty-handed presented itself more forcibly to
their minds than heretofore. The conclusion they came to was to appoint a single general, since
one man would be better able to handle the troops, by night or by day, than was possible while
the generalship was divided. If secrecy were desirable, it would be easier to keep matters
dark, or if again expedition were an object, there would be less risk of arriving a day too
late, since mutual explanations would be avoided, and whatever approved itself to the single
judgement would at once be carried into effect, whereas previously the generals had done everything
in obedience to the opinion of the majority.

With these ideas working in their minds, they turned to Xenophon, and the officers came to
him and told him that this was how the soldiers viewed matters; and each of them, displaying
a warmth of kindly feeling, pressed him to accept the office. Xenophon partly would have liked
to do so, in the belief that by so doing he would win to himself a higher repute in the esteem
of his friends, and that his name would be reported to the city written large; and by some
stroke of fortune he might even be the discoverer of some blessing to the army collectively.

These and the like considerations elated him; he had a strong desire to hold the supreme command.
But then again, as he turned the matter over, the conviction deepened in his mind that the
issue of the future is to every man uncertain; and hence there was the risk of perhaps losing
such reputation has he had already acquired. He was in sore straights, and, not knowing how
to decide, it seemed best to him to lay the matter before heaven. Accordingly, he led two victims
to the altar and made sacrifice to Zeus the King, for it was he and no other who had been named
by the oracle at Delphi, and his belief was that the vision which he had beheld when he first
essayed to undertake the joint administration of the army was sent to him by that god. He also
recalled to mind a circumstance which befell him still earlier, when    23 setting out from
Ephesus to associate himself with Cyrus (6);--how an eagle screamed on his right hand from
the east, and still remained perched, and the soothsayer who was escorting him said that it
was a great and royal omen (7); indicating glory and yet suffering; for the punier race of
birds only attack the eagle when seated. "Yet," added he, "it bodes not gain in money; for
the eagle seizes his food, not when seated, but on the wing."

 (6) Cf. "Cyrop." II. i. 1; an eagle appears to Cyrus on the frontiers
    of Persia, when about to join his uncle Cyaxares, king of Media,
    on his expedition against the Assyrian.

 (7) It is important to note that the Greek word {oionos}, a solitary
    or lone-flying bird, also means an omen. "It was a mighty bird and
    a mighty omen."

Thus Xenophon sacrificed, and the god as plainly as might be gave him a sign, neither to demand
the generalship, nor, if chosen, to accept the office. And that was how the matter stood when
the army met, and the proposal to elect a single leader was unanimous. After this resolution
was passed, they proposed Xenophon for election, and when it seemed quite evident that they
would elect him, if he put the question to the vote, he got up and spoke as follows:--

"Sirs, I am but mortal, and must needs be happy to be honoured by you. I thank you, and am
grateful, and my prayer is that the gods may grant me to be an instrument of blessing to you.
Still, when I consider it closer, thus, in the presence of a Lacedaemonian, to be preferred
by you as general, seems to me but ill conducive either to your interests or to mine, since
you will the less readily obtain from them hereafter anything you may need, while for myself
I look upon acceptance as even somewhat dangerous. Do I not see and know with what persistence
these Lacedaemonians prosecuted the war till finally they forced our State to acknowledge the
leadership of Lacedaemon? This confession once extorted from their antagonists, they ceased
warring at once, and the siege of the city was at an end. If, with these facts before my eyes,
I seem to be doing all I can to neutralise their high self-esteem, I cannot escape the reflection
that personally I may be taught wisdom by a painful process. But with your own idea that under
a single general there will be less factiousness than when there were many, be assured   29
that in choosing some other than me you will not find me factious. I hold that whosoever sets
up factious opposition to his leader factiously opposes his own safety. While if you determine
to choose me, I should not be surprised were that choice to entail upon you and me the resentment
of other people."

After those remarks on Xenophon's part, many more got up, one after another, insisting on the
propriety of his undertaking the command. One of them, Agasias the Stymphalian, said: It was
really ridiculous, if things had come to this pass that the Lacedeamonians are to fly into
a rage because a number of friends have met together to dinner, and omitted to choose a Lacedaemonian
to sit at the head of the table. "Really, if that is how matters stand," said he, "I do not
see what right we have to be officers even, we who are only Arcadians." That sally brought
down the plaudits of the assembly; and Xenophon, seeing that something more was needed, stepped
forward again and spoke, "Pardon, sirs," he said, "let me make a clean breast of it. I swear
to you by all the gods and goddesses; verily and indeed, I no sooner perceived your purpose,
than I consulted the victims, whether it was better for you to entrust this leadership to me,
and for me to undertake it, or the reverse. And the gods vouchsafed a sign to me so plain that
even a common man might understand it, and perceive that from such sovereignty I must needs
hold myself aloof."

