"In November, 1873, seven months after you sent me away." McTavish did not question this. Acting
on Donald's advice, he had observed the half-breed closely, and had detected unmistakable signs
of McTavish blood. Furthermore, the man looked his age.

The commissioner turned to Seguis, and questioned him in regard to certain events he would
remember, had he been alive at the time Maria claimed.

He answered correctly in all regards, and with a naturalness that showed he had not been coached.
The commissioner was satisfied that here was his first-born, and the pang that went through
his heart was like a red-hot arrow. But he turned his mind to the necessities of the occasion,
not yielding to its griefs.

"Maria," he said despairingly, "you know we were never married. You know you came to me willingly
and gladly, when I offered you the only life I would permit myself to offer an Indian. You
came as my companion until such time as we should see fit to separate; in fact, you were the
first to put the idea into my mind. That paper shows me you have done something very wrong.
I can't now disprove the statements there: that will come later. But what I want to say now
is that you are forcing through one of the dirtiest pieces of work that ever took place in
the Company."

Fitzpatrick feebly pawed his beard, and his eyes glittered with triumph. This was what he had
waited for--to see the commissioner slowly come to his knees before a filthy squaw, and plead
for his life!

"You don't hate me," McTavish continued, "for I never wronged you. When you left me, I gave
you enough to make you comfortable. Why did you not tell me of this child?

"Factors have too many ways of getting such things out of the way," Maria mumbled.

"Fool! Do you think I am a murderer at heart? You lie when you say that. It was ambition that
changed you from a pretty Indian girl to a ruthless fiend; ambition for your child that would
take him and you up to the heights, perhaps. But not by the open road! The dirty back alleys
were what you used to climb, and now you're nearly there. But you never did it alone, never.
You enlisted the help of a man that hates me and mine, as a trapper hates a wolverene. A man
who has lied to me and tried to deceive me for years; a man who, boasting of his devotion to
the Company, has let personal animus sway every thought and action for twenty years.

"Yes, I mean, Fitzpatrick. You!" snarled the commissioner, shaking a swift, accusing finger
at the factor, who had raised himself on his elbow, his face purple. "You think you have gone
on unobserved; and wonder why you were never promoted to York factory, and why honors never
came to you as you grew older. Know now that I was watching you and that I knew everything
you did--almost the thoughts that passed in your mind. You have persecuted my son, you would
have succeeded in taking his life, if your own pretender, Seguis there, hadn't defeated you.
Under a mask of loyalty, you've been the one accursed rebel in the Company's ranks, and, if
I were a commissioner of the old regime, I'd have you taken out and hanged to a tree this afternoon.
But I won't do that. Your own life has been its own punishment. For years, you haven't known
a happy day or a contented hour; your venom has eaten your own heart away, and what life remains
to you will be more miserable still, because, after all, you go down in defeat, dishonored
and disgraced. You are hereby removed from any office and any connection with the Company,
and are commanded to leave its territories as soon as you can travel."

The commissioner ceased speaking abruptly, his eyes blazing with fury, and his outstretched
arm trembling. The factor cowered before the accusing presence, like a boy caught in a theft,
and sank back upon his blankets, shame and pain struggling on the scarred battlefield of his
face. For him, life had come to a bitter and inglorious end, and, during all that followed,
he never spoke again.

There was a minute's pause while the commissioner recovered himself. Then, the thought of his
own helplessness and the inevitable ruin that faced him and his returned, and his face grew
drawn and hopeless. The triumphant and gleeful chortling of the old squaw attracted his stunned
senses.

"Maria," he said quietly, "you have it in your power to ruin and disgrace me--and my boy. Perhaps,
it is the punishment for the evil thing I did so many years ago. If so, I accept it. I shall
not beg you, or try to buy you, or humble myself. The document you have is a lie, and you know
it. Neither you nor your son shall ever receive a cent of money from me. All you can claim
is the dirty honor of ruining me. If you want that, take it. I have spoken my last word on
the subject." He ceased, and sat, a picture of misery.

Suddenly, there was a choking sound from the opposite side of the tent where Seguis lay.

"I can't stand this!" the half-breed cried. "Listen to me, commissioner! All of you listen!
That certificate is a lie, and I can prove it. I--"

There was a raucous scream, and Maria leaped upon the wounded man, and buried her talons in
his throat. Rainy and the commissioner seized her, and tore her from her helpless victim violently,
hurling her back across the tent, screeching.

"Silence!" roared McTavish. "Or I'll gag you with your own fist."

The woman subsided, but Rainy took his place beside her, and relieved her of two knives that
she made an effort to reach.

"Now, go on, Seguis."

"I didn't know, sir," said the half-breed, "until the other day, that--what I was. Then, Donald
McTavish told me, by accident or design, I don't know which. I asked my mother, and she confessed
that Donald had spoken the truth. So great was her elation at the success of her claims for
me that she showed me that certificate, signed by the missionary. I was as delighted as she.

"Then the next day she told me how she got it, and since then I have been in hell. Oh, sir,
you don't know what an existence like mine can be. All my life I have been torn by two natures.
I have wanted things that a man of my standing has no right to wish. I have brains, I have
intelligence; I want to rise above my handicaps--to be something besides a common half-breed
rover of the woods. I headed the free-traders because it gave me an opportunity to do something
for myself. When my mother showed me that paper I thought my way was clear, and that I had
not worked in vain. But--but, when she told me how she got it--then, the struggle started.

"I am a McTavish, sir, and I am proud of it; but it is that honorable blood that is this minute
sending me back to the life I hate, and the oblivion I loathe. I can't lie here, and see you
and Captain McTavish ruined. The Indian part of me says, 'Yes, take it; no one will ever know.'
But the McTavish of me rebels, and I can't do it."

"Yes, yes," cried the commissioner feverishly, "but about the certificate? What about that?"

"I was getting to it, sir. Years ago, I don't know how many, my mother and I were living in
a little cabin by a lake during the winter. I was small then, and did not realize the significance
of things. One night, we heard faint noises in the woods near by, and my mother went out to
see what made them. She found Burns Riley, the missionary, half-insane with suffering, his
features frozen, and almost at the point of starvation. He had had a similar adventure to Captain
McTavish's this winter.

"My mother saw his plight, and the vague plan that had been in her mind took shape. There,
in the snow, she forced the missionary at the price of his miserable life to agree to write
that certificate, and, as soon as his fingers could hold the pen and dip it in the soot-ink
of the chimney, he did it, and before him sat the food that his words would purchase. Burns
Riley was a square man, but his life was at stake, for my mother would have turned him out
into the snow as he was, if he had not done as she wished--and he knew it."

"But why didn't he come and tell me?" demanded McTavish.

"Because he was on his way to a mission, at Fort Chimo, on the Koksook River, near Ungava Bay.
He didn't come back until shortly before he died, and he never saw you. No doubt he was afraid
to trust the story of the disgrace of his cloth to a messenger. That, Mr. McTavish, is the
story of the certificate. I'm glad I've told it; I'm glad I've relinquished my claims; I'm
glad that I am still as honest as the best blood in me. But now," he added drearily, "what
is there for me? Commissioner, you have done me the irreparable wrong of making me what I am.
All our two lives there can never be any righting of that wrong. I am a half-breed, and must
forever yearn vainly for better things that I know I can never attain."

During his words, which were evenly spoken, without excitement, but with intense feeling, the
head of Douglas McTavish remained sunk upon his breast. He realized now the irreparable injury
that his youth had wrought, and in the depths of his heart he admired this heroic half-breed,
who, in the exercise of the truest nobility, was a better man than he. The selfish gratitude
for his deliverance was secondary to shame for his own unworthy life and humble worship of
Seguis's sterling character.

"Seguis," he said at last, quietly, "you are right; I never can undo the wrong I have done
you. But will say this: I admire your spirit and your manhood. I admire the way you sought
to defeat us in honorable competition on the hunting-grounds, and the skill with which you
managed it. The position of factor at Fort Severn is open, and I wish you to take it. You are
one of my most valued men. This appointment will be ratified in the usual form when the time
comes."

He rose and walked across the tent: Then, he took the left hand of Seguis and pressed it warmly.

"You will accept?" he asked.

The half-breed's only response was a return pressure and a look of glorious gratitude.

"What is to become of me, father?" asked Donald in a half-serious tone of injury.

"You're to come down to civilization as soon as spring opens. I had already decided that this
would be your last year in the woods. I need you there to learn the ins and outs of the administrative
end. Of course, I'll give you a factory if you want it, but I don't think you need the experience."

"No, I don't think I do," replied Donald. "And then, besides, I have other reasons for wishing
to live in a civilized community. I wonder what is the current price of house-furniture?"

A month later Jean Fitzpatrick, her sister, Laura, and Donald McTavish sat in the luxurious
drawing-room of the factor's house at Fort Severn. The two women were in black, and Laura dabbed
at her eyes occasionally, but with considerable care lest the penciling of her eyebrows should
smear... Out in the cold, a little distance away, a fresh mound lay, dun-colored, under the
oblique rays of the setting sun.

"Poor father," said Jean softly, slipping her hand into Donald's, "I'm glad he's at rest. His
life was a bitter one."

"Yes, princess, it is better so. That last sledge ride to the camp in response to orders was
the final straw. He never spoke again, did he? Even in regard to our marriage?"

"No, dear, he didn't, and I'm glad, for my mind was made up already. I suppose Seguis will
take possession here now?"

