This is my journal; no one will ever see it; I can be honest. I impressed Miss Raggles. I think
I impressed every one that I met. I realized that on the mere making a good impression depended
my success in the future. To talk, to dance, to flirt, to eat ice-cream, at the rate of three
or four dollars an hour--for the present this was my profession. Why not elevate it, glorify
it, by doing these things better than any one else had ever done them? There was an exhilaration
in the thought. It positively inspired me. I was in constant demand, and was presented to almost
every one. Toward the end of the evening Mrs. Slater asked me to sing. I thought it odd for
a large party, but I sang my best. One thing damped my spirits. I had been standing in the
doorway, when I suddenly became aware of two waiters who were whispering together at a short
distance. In a lull of the music their words reached me.

"Which did yer say he was?" said one in a loud whisper.

"That's him--him there by the door, the good-lookin' fellow. Looks as if he didn't have nothin'
in the world to do but stand there all the evening," answered the other.

"You don't say!" ejaculated the first; "and he gets fifteen dollars for doin' the likes of
that? You and me has missed our vocation, Bill."

I could have knocked down the impertinent fellows, but, after all, what right had I to do it?
It was all true. "Noblesse oblige," I muttered through my clinched teeth; and catching Mrs.
Slater's stern glance, I went to do my duty by taking my partner to supper.

At the close of the evening Mr. Slater came up to me. He was certainly a dignified-looking
old fellow, but he seemed unhappy. "Well, Mr. Valentine," he said, with rather a melancholy
smile, "you have done remarkably well. Been quite the life of the evening. Trying thing to
entertain a party of this size. This is the first time we have done it. How do you think it
went off? Your candid opinion now."

"Remarkably well," I said.

I noticed that his manner to me was secret and confidential, as if we had entered into some
dark partnership of crime.

"Mrs. Slater," he continued, "is an ambitious woman, and it was her idea having you. She wanted
a different style of young man from those we have been accustomed to, and"--looking at me with
a sad pride--"she got it--she got it."

As I looked at him his face seemed to grow more familiar. At this moment Miss Raggles, who
had gone up-stairs to get her cloak, made her appearance. I bade a hurried good-night to Mr.
and Mrs. Slater, and accompanied the young lady home. She lived in that part of Fifth Avenue
which is on the confines of both New York and Harlem. She treated me as a distinguished stranger,
and ended by inviting me to call. Unsuspecting Miss Raggles! Her mother had apparently gone
home hours before. In the Slater set they managed things in this way.

I wonder when I am to be paid.

January 22d.--I have discovered where I have seen Mr. Slater before. I stopped at Stewart's
yesterday to buy some gloves (I was paid the morning after the Slater party), and as I walked
down the shop one of the individuals popularly known as "walkers" approached me.

"What do you desire, sir?" I heard a pompous voice say. "Where may I direct you?"

"Gloves," I said, mechanically.

"Third section on the right hand, Fourth Avenue side, sir."

I looked at my guide, as a familiar tone struck my ear. It was Mr. Slater. At the same instant
he recognized me. A moment before we had been independent human beings--at the next our consciousness
of the mutual knowledge we possessed of each other destroyed our comfort. Mr. Slater walked
away in one direction and I in another. Still, it was a comfort to know where I had seen him
before.

January 27th.--I find that a whole week has elapsed since I have written anything in my journal.
The truth is, I have been too miserable. This occupation is degrading. Everywhere I go some
fresh humiliation awaits me. The very servants look on me with suspicion. At one place the
butler followed me around all the evening as if I were a thief. I don't think any one noticed
it, yet I could not rid myself of the feeling that Morton, who happened to be there, looked
at me suspiciously once or twice. Suppose he were to discover everything, and tell it at the
club! It is too hideous to be thought of.

At another house, where I had been obliged to sing comic songs and make a buffoon of myself
for two hours, my host--an enormously rich and illiterate person--presented me with a check
for twenty-five dollars as I left the house. I returned it indignantly, but he pressed it into
my hand, saying, heartily:

"I ain't goin' to take it back, so you may as well keep it. You done first-rate this evening--first-rate!
'Tain't charity, but because what you done is worth more than fifteen dollars by a long shot;
and when I have pleasure, I expect to pay for it, like I do for everything else."

To avoid a scene, I had to keep the money. I am certainly richer than I was. I have been able,
by my honest exertions, to supply myself with the luxuries without which I cannot exist; and
when my present income is doubled, I shall be able to pay something on account for my board
bill here, and settle some of my other bills. The question that now troubles me is, Are they
honest exertions?

Since the evening at Mr. Griddle's (the rich manufacturer who gave me the check) I have been
to several places, at all of which, among others that I knew, I saw Morton. His manner is becoming
most unpleasant. He said to me the other night, with that satirical grin of his:

"You're getting to be quite a society man, Valentine. Never used to see you about so much.
It's always been my way, but it's something new for you."

I felt sure he suspected something. Another time he said:

"By the way, I thought you were going out of town to live? As you seem to have changed your
mind, I suppose it is all right about the Amsterdam?"

I would not dare to join a club now. I stammered out something about talking it over another
time, and left the room. I begin to hate him. He suspects the truth, and knows that I am in
his power, and enjoys it.

February 4th.--Added to the mortifications I am exposed to, the feeling that I am a sham grows
on me. I impose on every one wherever I go. This thought has robbed me of my peace of mind.
However poor I was before, I had nothing to be ashamed of. Now I am a man with a Secret.

February 5th.--I have realized this too late. Last night I was sent for to fill a place at
a dinner-table where fourteen had been expected, and at the last minute one had failed. Mr.
Courtland, the gentleman at whose house the dinner was given, treated me politely before his
guests, yet with him I felt all the odium of my position. I was there as a convenience, and
nothing else. My relation to him was purely a business one. The house was on Washington Square,
and was old-fashioned but magnificent. The dining-room was hung with tapestry, and we sat around
the dinner-table in carved arm-chairs. I made a pretence of talking to the old lady whom I
took in to dinner, and whom I had met before, but in reality my attention was absorbed by a
beautiful young girl who sat opposite to me. She had dark hair, brilliant coloring, and deep-set
brown eyes. She wore an oddly old-fashioned gown of yellow satin, cut square in the neck. I
found that she was Mr. Courtland's niece and heiress, and lived with him. He was a widower
without any children. After dinner, when the men went into the drawing-room, I determined to
leave. Mr. Courtland's manner was too much for my self-respect. Miss Courtland stood by the
piano, and every one was begging her to sing.

"My music has gone to be bound," she said, "and I cannot sing without it."

Her uncle would not accept this refusal, and produced a portfolio of old music. His niece selected
a duet for soprano and tenor, and said that she would sing if any one would take the tenor;
she stood with the music in her hand, looking dubiously at the circle of men around her. Not
one could sing. Mrs. Delancey, my companion at the dinner-table, looked at me.

"Mr. Valentine sings, Helen. I am sure he will be happy to sing with you."

Miss Courtland turned to me with a smile that was positively bewildering. "Will you sing this
duet with me, Mr. Valentine?"

Mr. Courtland flashed a furious glance at me, which said, "Don't dare to sing with my niece."
Of all my humiliations this stung me the most. Mr. Courtland, however, seemed to regret having
shown so much feeling, for his manner changed.

"I hope you will oblige us by singing, Mr. Valentine," he said, stiffly.

Of course I sang, although I was tempted to refuse, and leave the house instead. How could
I refuse Miss Courtland? Her voice was exquisite--sympathetic. It made me feel as though I
could confide in her. What if I should! Yes, and be cut the next time we met. I felt painfully
the chasm that divided us, gentle and cordial as she was, and left as soon as the song was
over. I wonder whether I shall see her again?

February 13th.--I have been out several times this week, and twice have met Miss Courtland.
Her uncle never goes out, and Mrs. Delancey chaperons her. She always seems glad to see me,
and certainly has the most charming manners. Never mind the fact of my being a whited sepulchre.
Let me enjoy the goods the gods have sent me. That confounded Morton! he is always at Miss
Courtland's elbow, and when he succeeds in engaging her to dance before I do, he looks at me
with his insolent smile.

February 15th.--Morton's malice is unspeakable. Feeling convinced as I do that he suspects
my secret, it is positive torture to see him talk to Miss Courtland as he did last night. He
evidently spoke of me, and she listened to him, looking at me meanwhile with a surprised expression.
That man has me in his power.

February 20th.--I feel that it is unprincipled to send Miss Courtland flowers, for two reasons--first,
because I cannot do it and pay my bills as well; secondly, because it adds to my deception
in making a friend of her, and yet I cannot resist the temptation to show her my admiration.

February 21st.--Matters are coming to a climax. Last night Miss Courtland said, with a dignified
sweetness that was irresistible: "Mr. Valentine, I have noticed that you have never been to
see me. I have not asked you, because I supposed you would feel at liberty to come after having
dined with my uncle."

"I assure you, Miss Courtland," I said, "I should of course have done so, but the truth is
I have had a slight misunderstanding with your uncle, and I do not feel that I can go to his
house."

Of course I added a lie to the rest of my duplicity. Her face was lighted with a charming smile.
"That is no reason for not coming; you owe my uncle a call at all events. I will be at home
to-morrow--no, Thursday afternoon. Come in about five o'clock, and I will give you a cup of
tea. My uncle is never at home until six o'clock, and when he does come in, never sees visitors.
Even if you do meet him, it will be a good opportunity to make your peace with him."

In a kind of dream I recklessly consented.

Morton came pushing up at that moment.

"By the way, Miss Courtland," he said, "will you be at home Thursday afternoon? If so, with
your permission, I will call upon you."

Of course he had overheard me, and wished to irritate me. Fortunately some one spoke to Miss
Courtland at that moment, and she turned away without having heard Morton. For once my anger
flamed out. I caught him by the arm, and held it like a vise.

"Be careful," I said, between my teeth. "This sort of thing may go too far."

He gave me a furious look, and shaking me off, left the room.

February 22d. TWO A.M.--My brain is reeling. My world is upside down. There is no use in trying
to sleep. I will write down what has happened. It may calm me. This evening when I entered
the house where I was to entertain others at the expense of my self-respect, I found I was
before the time. The rooms were empty, with the exception of my hostess, a very old lady, who
held a formidable ear-trumpet in her hand. Preceding me down the brightly lighted room was
a gentleman. There was something unpleasantly familiar in the cut of his coat and the carriage
of his head. It was my evil genius, Morton. I made up my mind to wait until some one else came,
before going in. As I stood in the background this scene was enacted before me:

Morton bowed. The old lady looked blankly at him.

"I am Mr. Morton, madam," said he.

She continued to stare at him, and then held out her trumpet. Morton took it, and repeated
his words into its depths.

"Horton?" she said, interrogatively.

"Morton," he called.

"Oh yes, Lawton--Mr. Lawton."

"Morton!" he fairly shouted.

"Oh yes," she said, intelligence breaking over her face. "Morton--Mr. Morton, from the Globe
office. Where's the other? There were to have been two. Just take care of yourself, please,
for a moment. I have to go and see about something."

She tottered out of the room, and Morton, turning, confronted me. He saw that I had overheard
all. Before I could speak he came toward me with an air of desperation.

"For Heaven's sake don't betray me, Valentine, now that you know my secret," he exclaimed.
"I have felt from the first that you suspected--that I was in your power. I throw myself on
your mercy. In your safe and prosperous condition you don't know--you can't know--what a frightful
position I am in."

My face must have changed in some ghastly manner as he spoke, for he stopped and looked at
me with deepening consternation.

"What is it? What's the matter?" he asked.

I saw my mistake, and tried to look unconcerned, but at that moment the old lady came back
into the room.

"Oh, there's the other," she said, as she saw me. "His name's Valentine, so that's all right."

Several people came into the room, and she went forward to greet them. Morton looked at me
in dazed silence for a minute; then he seemed to master his astonishment by a mighty effort.

"So," he said, huskily, "we are quits. I am in your power, but you are equally in mine. Be
careful how you interfere with me."

We did not speak again together during the evening. What is to be the end of this? To-morrow
I go to see Miss Courtland, and I have made up my mind to confess everything. Perhaps she will
think no worse of me. The queen still loved Ruy Blas after she found he was a lackey.

What nonsense am I dreaming of?

February 23d.--The game is up. I went this afternoon to Mr. Courtland's house, and found Miss
Courtland at home, alone. She was in a dim little room, with the firelight nickering on her
beautiful face. She saw that I was constrained and anxious, and at once asked me the reason.
Something in her kind manner broke down my composure.

"Miss Courtland," I said, "how would you feel if I were to confess that I have been deceiving
you--that I am not what I seem to be?"

"What do you mean?" she asked, anxiously.

"Tell me first," I said, "that whatever I tell you, you will still be my friend, and will believe
me when I say that I have not wished to deceive you--that I have bitterly regretted it."

She looked at me with a frank smile. "You may depend upon me."

In a few words I told her everything from the time of my going to the Globe office up to that
moment. She listened gravely; then she turned to me again with a smile.

"You have told me nothing dishonorable (although you can surely find something better to do),
and I will still be your friend. I am glad you told me, for Mr. Morton said some things about
you last night that made me fear--"

This was too hard, and I interrupted her.

"Morton!" I said. "Morton is the last person to dare to say anything against me."

Here I checked myself, but Miss Courtland's curiosity was aroused.

"What do you mean?" she asked.

"Nothing," I said. "I will not talk of Morton; it is enough that you are still my friend."

"Certainly I am," she said.

She held out her hand as she spoke, and I took it and raised it to my lips. At the same moment
two people entered the room by different doors. One was Mr. Courtland; the other, Morton. Mr.
Courtland seemed stupefied with astonishment, for he stood motionless, but Morton strode toward me.

"How dare you!" he gasped. "I will expose you."

His audacity was too much for my self-control.

"Morton," I said, in a low tone, "as your position is the same as mine, I warn you to be careful
of what you say."

I spoke louder than I intended, and Miss Courtland heard my words. She gave Morton a keen look.

"Ah! now I understand!" she exclaimed, as if involuntarily.

As she said this Morton became very white, and muttering something about a broken engagement,
with a hasty good-by to Mr. Courtland, left the room. He had gone a step too far at last. Mr.
Courtland had by this time recovered from his astonishment.

"What do you mean by this astounding impertinence!" he exclaimed, coming toward me. He turned
to his niece: "Helen, do you know on what terms this man first came here? I hired him--hired
him from the Globe Employment Bureau to fill an empty place at my dinner-table. I did not warn
you against him, for I thought you would not meet him again. I trusted also to his sense of
decency, but I was mistaken. Your honesty was guaranteed, sir. You have not taken my silver,
but you have done worse. This shall be reported to the Globe Employment Bureau immediately.
First, leave this house. I shall go at once to the Globe office."

He paused for an instant.

"My dear uncle," said Miss Courtland, quietly, "Mr. Valentine has just told me all this himself.
He only came here because I asked him to come."

Mr. Courtland would not listen to any explanations, but only repeated his assertion that he
would report me at the Globe office. There was nothing for me to do but to go.

I gave Miss Courtland one look of gratitude, then I left the house. I have but two consolations:
one, that Miss Courtland still trusts me; the other, that Morton is as badly off as I am--rather
worse.

My dismissal from the Globe has just come. It is a relief to be free from this bondage, but
I am as much in debt as usual, and what am I to do in the future?

February 24th.--A light is beginning to break on my dark horizon. I have just received a note
from Miss Courtland telling me that her uncle has been pacified by her explanations; that as
I am no longer in the employ of the Globe, I am at liberty to come to his house; and that she
is sure I will find something better to do in the future.

I can't help thinking of Ruy Blas and the queen again. I feel like Ruy Blas come back to life,
and my queen is not married.

STELLA GRAYLAND.

BY JAMES T. MCKAY.

Scribner's Monthly, March, 1877.

"So Miss Brainard's father's gone, Doctor." It was the young minister's clear, hearty voice
that spoke. "I feel very sorry for Miss Brainard, very sorry indeed. He has been a great care
to her, and it's a release to both, no doubt; but it leaves a great void. She's very good and
useful, and she has been a faithful daughter. She's very much overcome; it seems to her as
if she were alone in the world."

Dr. Enfield's heart smote him. He knew Cora Brainard much better than the minister, who had
not been very long in the place, but his thought of her had not been gentle of late. The picture
of her in such trouble affected him with a remorseful tenderness. He turned his horse and drove
to her door.

He found her alone; she had been crying, and looked tremulous and downcast, but was trim and
pretty, as always. She called him Lawrence and asked him in, then nestled herself childishly
in the corner of the sofa and dried her eyes. Enfield stood before her, remembering many things.

"I am very sorry, Cora," he said. "Can I do anything for you?"

He spoke low and with something like contrition.

"You're long in coming to show it," she complained. "You've been very unkind."

"I used to come quick enough and often enough," he rejoined in the subdued tone.

"Yes, and then you stayed away of a sudden, and when I asked you the reason, you laughed at
me and deserted me altogether, when you knew I looked to you for advice and assistance, and
had most need of them."

Her reproach stung him. The charge of unfaithfulness to a friend was one he took keenly. There
was a mingled sternness and entreaty in his voice when he replied:

"Won't you let that go now? This is no time for bandying reproaches. I think I was your faithful
friend for a long while. If I failed in my duty to you, I am sure I did not know it. And if
I changed, it was because I thought I had been mistaken and had been going for years with my
eyes shut. I thought I had been a fool and it was time----but that's of no account now. I am
your friend still; let me prove it."

But she persisted in her high, child-like complaint.

"Was it my fault, then, you had not seen me, truly? I never tried to deceive you. I always
put confidence in you and talked frankly to you, as I never did to any one else. And you know
I've had a hard time. I was never meant for the tiresome, lonely life I've had. I never wanted
to be a pattern and model of usefulness and self-forgetfulness, but they would have me so,
and I couldn't go out in the streets and tell them I was not. I've had to play the part till
I'm tired. I've had to walk demurely, and talk and smile to people I despised, and do all sorts
of miserable things. But I never pretended to you. You knew I was not satisfied or happy. I
used to tell you all my troubles and ask your advice about everything. And you know you said
harsh things to me sometimes. You knew me better than any one else, and I did not think you
would ever treat me so. Did you think only of what was due to yourself, and that our long friendship
and the reliance you had encouraged me to place in you gave me no claim upon you?"

Her words hurt and agitated him greatly. Was she right? and had he been doubly blind? In this
grieved, reproachful, petulant humor, she seemed a different being from the Cora Brainard he
had had in his thought these last months; she was the little girl that the big boy, Lawrence
Enfield, had protected and drawn on his sled, the maiden he had cherished in his heart for
many a day; and he had been purer and braver for the thought of her. Did he owe her nothing
for that? He was very sensitive to people's claims upon him. His heart bled and was afraid
for her. He could not see her way. He knew she had had a hard time,--harder than people dreamed.
They thought her long service and support of her invalid father were made easy by a love of
duty and by exceptional ability. Enfield knew that, though she had rare tact and succeeded
admirably, all sordid care and labor were extremely repugnant to her. She had said she never
had anything she liked; he would have expressed it, that she never liked anything she had.
He thought that a very melancholy case. That she liked the society of spirited young men, he
had learned to his sorrow more than once or twice; or, at least, that they were very apt to
like her; but they were all sent (or went) about their business one after another.

Enfield had a friend named Loramer, who had been one of the spirited fellows at one time, and
the episode had been a severe strain upon their friendship. It was a summer vacation of Loramer's,
when he made Miss Brainard's acquaintance, and he had found her bright, piquant face, and light,
laughing chatter very appetizing. He met her upon riding and sailing parties, sat and walked
and drove with her. Enfield avoided them both awhile, then spoke offensively to Loramer, and
got scornful laughter in reply. They did not meet again for some time.

One evening Loramer brought Cora home from a drive. He lifted her out, and they stood talking
there together under the trees. He made an appointment to go rowing with her the next day,
and they parted, with some show of reluctance on his part, and low laughter on hers.

He scratched a match and lighted a cigar, as he drove down the street. As he passed through
the town, he saw some one going before him on the foot-path. He let his horse walk, and watched
the man till he turned a corner. He turned the horse after him, overtook him, and stopped opposite
and said:

"Enfield, come and ride."

He stood by a tree a minute or two, looking, then came and got in.

They rode along, each in his corner.

"Have a cigar?" said Loramer.

"No," answered Enfield.

Loramer took his own from his mouth and flung it away. He struck the horse with the whip, Enfield
put his hand on the reins, and said, steadily:

"Don't do that, the mare's willing enough; she's tired."

Loramer pulled her up, and let her walk a mile or more, up among the hills; then he turned
her and rattled back toward the village, and stopped before his own lodging. He asked Enfield
to hold the horse and went in. In a little while he came out and put a valise in the wagon.

"What time does the night train pass?"

"12.05."

He drove to the station, gave Enfield the reins, and put the valise on the platform, then stood
on the step of the wagon.

"Drive the horse to Mitchel's for me and tell him to send me his bill."

He lingered a moment, then offered his hand.

"Good-night, Lawrence!"

"Good-night!" and they held each other's hands firmly but gravely.

"Will you take a cigar now, Lawrence?"

"Yes!"

Loramer thrust his cigar-case into his hand, wheeled round and marched into the waiting-room,
holding the valise with a strong grasp, and putting his head a little on one side.

That affair was a part of the long, slow process of Enfield's alienation from Cora, but only
one of many steps. He was tenacious and slow to change, and she held him by cords of memory
and dependence as well as affection. But by degrees he came to see clearly that he had been
wilfully blind, that he had always known but would not regard that she was not at all the girl
he had enshrined. The end was but a trifle--the proverbial last straw. And though he laughed
when she took him to task and felt a barbarous enjoyment in their reversed relations, and in
her show of something like consternation, he more than once afterward felt the yearning of
the converted heathen toward his broken gods.

Loramer and Enfield spent a week together on Cape Cod the same summer and took refuge from
a storm in one of the huts provided for ship-wrecked people. Listening to the deafening roar
of the wind and the surf, they spoke of Cora Brainard. Loramer congratulated Lawrence upon
his freedom. And he went on:

"I don't know what there is in the little minx. All the old ladies in Elmtree think her a kind
of saint, but she didn't strike me in that light. She came near making a ---- fool of me, but
I can't remember anything she said, only how she laughed and her eyes sparkled."

"I can't laugh at her," Enfield answered. "She hasn't made herself and she hasn't had a good
time. She doesn't know anything and doesn't care for anything. She has a wonderful tact, an
eye for color, and an instinct for the current fashion in what goes for literature and art.
But she has no appreciation of anything permanent and no lasting enjoyment of anything. I think
that is terrible. I can't think of anything much more pitiable."

Enfield lounged against the wall; Loramer watched him awhile, listening to the storm booming
without, as he lay stretched on the straw. Then he went on:

"Do you think she's a good girl, Lawrence? It wouldn't be quite safe for her to run on with
some fellows as she did with me."

He caught Enfield's eye.

"No, it wasn't quite safe for her to run on so with me. She's either very innocent, or very
artful, or very reckless, I don't know which. If she is good, she's very, very good."

He laughed, but Lawrence smoked soberly and silent.

"Young Harlow, the ensign, was her last capture, wasn't he?"

Enfield nodded, gravely.

"They say he was over his head, and would have given up the navy and flouted his people and
everything, if she would have taken him, but she wouldn't let him sacrifice himself. That was
a strange affair of theirs--being lost on a sleigh-ride and snowed up two days across the mountain.
I never could understand it; both of them knew the country, and none of the rest of the party
found much trouble."

"I don't know," Enfield answered, slowly. "I wasn't taking as much interest in her movements
just then as I had been. I cut adrift about the time she took Harlow in tow; I suppose she
thought I was jealous, and perhaps I was. I don't know how they managed it, but he left very
suddenly, and she was sick about that time."

       *       *       *       *       *

All these things, and many more, surged through Enfield's mind now, as he stood before her
and was swayed by her unrestrained upbraiding. She said that he had stood in her way, that
she had put her trust in him and given him such a near place that others had been kept from
her. He found that hard to swallow. He turned from her and threw himself into an arm-chair,
with his face away from her, and chewed the bitter accusation.

Finally she came slowly and stood beside him a minute or two, then said sadly, laying her hand
on his arm:

"Forgive me, Lawrence, if I have said too much; I am in trouble; you will help me, will you not?"

"Yes, I will do anything I can for you," he answered. "Have you made any plans?"

She shook her head slowly.

"No; I don't know what I am to do. I can't live alone, and there's no one here I can live with.
They don't know me and yet think they do, and they expect me to be always playing the character
they have invented for me. I'm tired to death, and I want you to tell me what to do."

He sat with her awhile longer, then went away, and thought of her all night, and went back
to her in the morning.

Loramer made him a visit soon after that. They sat up late together. When they were separating
at Loramer's door, he laid his arm across Enfield's shoulder, and they looked into each other's
eyes.

"Are you going to marry Cora Brainard, Lawrence?" he asked.

"Yes."

They continued to look at each other for a long breath.

"Are my eyes sound?" asked Enfield, but neither smiled.

"Yes, sound and true," answered Loramer, "but too deep for me."

The wedding came off a month later. Enfield had insisted upon Loramer standing up with him.
"This must make no difference between you and me, Harry," he had said. Cora looked very pretty,
and bore herself with a demure dignity which Loramer could not but admire. He got an idea of
her then which he found hard to reconcile with his recollections. Enfield himself discovered
an unsuspected capacity for enjoyment in her.

They came back from the wedding-journey, and she took command of his house. And as they settled
into the routine of home life and occupations, Enfield began to think of carrying out certain
plans which he had had in mind.

Two or three months before his return to Cora, he had met a young lady whom he had known slightly
for some years, named Stella Grayland. She was not strikingly beautiful, but of very pleasing
appearance, fresh, rosy, and intelligent. But the charm Enfield found in her was her manner
and what it suggested. Though entirely simple, her walking, standing, sitting, speaking, were
perfectly poised. In all her motions and attitudes she made you think of some smooth and balanced
mechanism which, however it turned, or went, or stopped, was still in no danger of going awry.
She could stand still and sit still, and to see her do either was good for the eyes. She was
not fluent in speech, but when she began you might be sure she would get to the end of what
she set out to say and stop when she got to the end. The simplest things took a rhythmical
quality in her mouth, and clung to the memory with an agreeable tenacity.

Happy, thoughtful, modest, steadfast Stella Grayland had struck Enfield as the reverse of Cora
Brainard, and he found the secret of the salient difference in the fact that Stella had had
a thorough training in one direction. Her father was a musician, and his daughter had inherited
his faculty and cultivated it by assiduous study at home and abroad. Coming away from her,
Enfield had reflected how any ennobling pursuit broadens and deepens the whole character, as
a journey up the latitudes on any side of the world gives one the main features of all, and
makes the rest intelligible.

If Cora had had the guidance of some strong, wise hand to set her right at the start, and lead
her along the arduous beginning of some such path, until her feet found their strength and
the growing joy of walking, and her eyes learned the delight of the ever-widening and brightening
prospect!--the thought of what might have been filled him with strong regret and pity. She
had only had the training of sordid care and uncongenial tasks and associations. He was estranged
from her then, and had been thinking hardly of her; but when he heard of her in trouble at
her father's death, the pitiful yearning swept away all unkindness, and brought him back to
her side. And that night, after she had appealed to him in such an abandoned humor, she seemed
to him quite the child still and fit to learn of one who understood her, and had her confidence
and the right to be with her a great deal. Who was there that knew her or could help her but
he? It was in no proud spirit that he had answered. He wandered under the stars, and was humble
enough and lonely enough, God knew. He went back through the years, and gathered all the forgotten
tenderness and trust between them. He felt again the purifying stimulus of his thought of her,
and perceived how it had fostered all of him that was brave and of good report. Whether or
not he had deceived himself; whether she were truly the girl he had seen or not, the fact remained
that he owed her, or his thought of her, a great deal. What was truth? Are there not as many
worlds as eyes that see them? Are we sure there is any world outside the eye? Does not truth
consist in standing by what one's eyes report? What better proof could there be of a thing's
reality than that it had held you long, shaped and lifted and led you? Cora Brainard had been
the most powerful modifying circumstance of his life.

It seemed to him that night that God had set before him a solemn trust, and that there was
every reason why he should assume it. And slowly and reverently he took it up.

