Since the establishment of the bureau here, it has been found necessary to issue rations to
freedmen, as follows:

To citizen employees                          46
To helpless and infirm                      236
To sick and hospital attendants           1,169
                                          -----
Total issued                              1,451
                                          =====

The number fed by the government to-day is as follows:

Men                                           7
Women                                         6
Children                                     10
                                             --
Total number infirm and helpless rationed    23

Number sick at hospital                      40
Number hospital attendants                   24
Number citizen employees rationed              1
                                             --
Total number supplied with rations           88
                                             ==

None but the helpless and infirm and sick have been fed at the expense of the government, and
these only in cases of absolute necessity. Many planters who abandoned their homes on the Mississippi
and carried away their slaves to Texas have returned to this city, and with a coolness amounting
to audacity have demanded transportation for their former slaves to various points from the
mouth of the Red river to Lake Providence. Finding that the officers of the government would
not oblige them in this particular, they left behind the aged and infirm to provide for themselves
as best they could. This and the abuses on plantations have caused the principal suffering
among the freedmen, and have brought many to the city who otherwise would have remained upon
the plantation, but, all things being considered, comparatively few have congregated about
town. There has been such a demand for day labor in the city that I have deemed it a false
philanthropy to feed those who temporarily sought refuge from oppression.

The permanent residents are orderly and industrious, and desire very much to have schools established
for their children. I cannot here refrain from mentioning the fact that the presence of negroes
in town possessing free papers is extremely disagreeable to the citizens.

The tax collected of planters has thus far been sufficient to defray office and printing expenses.
The hire of a surgeon and nurses for the hospital, amounting in July to $204.46, is the only
bill which it is necessary to refer to you for payment. All the property and money which has
come into my hands on account of the bureau has been accounted for to the proper departments,
according to regulations.

By Special Orders No. 140, dated at headquarters northern division of Louisiana, June 21, 1865,
Chaplain Thomas Callahan, 48th United States colored infantry, was assigned to duty with me
as my assistant, and he has had charge of the department of complaints. He is a very capable
and efficient officer, and his services are very valuable to the bureau.

Again, I have occasion to return acknowledgments to Brigadier General J.C. Veatch for his cordial
assistance in aiding me to carry out the measures of the bureau, and also to Colonel Crandal
and Lieutenant Colonel McLaughlin, post commandants, for valuable aid; and to Brevet Major
General J.P. Hawkins we are indebted for that which makes the colored man in reality a free man.

Believing that with proper management and kind treatment the freedmen in western Louisiana
will be found to be as industrious as laborers in other sections of the country,

I have the honor to be, with much respect, your obedient servant,

W.B. STICKNEY, Lieutenant and Assistant Superintendent Freedmen.

THOMAS W. CONWAY, Assistant Commissioner Bureau of Freedmen. &c.

No. 33.

FREEDMEN'S BUREAU,

Shreveport, Louisiana, August 26, 1865.

Sir: I have the honor to report, in accordance with orders, that in the district under my supervision,
comprising eight parishes in Louisiana and two counties in Texas, and an area of about 13,764
square miles, 3,105 contracts have been made, and 27,830 laborers enrolled since the first
of July. The work of making contracts is now nearly completed, but the returns for the month
of August from the officers acting in the different parishes have not as yet been received.
From the data already collected it will be safe to estimate the whole number of laborers working
under the contract system in the district at not less than 32,000, 25,000 of whom are in Louisiana.

The experience of two months has demonstrated the fact that the negro will work well when he
is well paid and kindly treated; and another principle in the nature of the contracting parties
has been equally as clearly elucidated, i.e., the planters are disposed to pay the freedmen
the least possible sum for their labor, and that for much compensation the freedmen make an
offset by making as little as possible. To acknowledge the right of the negro to freedom, and
to regard him as a free man entitled to the benefits of his labor and to all the privileges
and immunities of citizenship, is to throw aside the dogmas for which the south have been contending
for the last thirty years, and seems to be too great a stride for the people to take at once,
and too unpalatable a truth for the aristocratic planter to comprehend, without the interposition
of the stern logic of the bayonet in the hands of a colored soldier. Duty to my government
compels me to report the following well-authenticated facts:

1. Nineteen-twentieths of the planters have no disposition to pay the negro well or treat him well.

2. In the same proportion the planting aristocracy proffers obedience to the government, and
at the same time do all in their power to make trouble.

3. The planters evince a disposition to throw all the helpless and infirm freedmen upon the
hands of the government possible, in order to embarrass us and compel us to return them to
slavery again.

4. A majority of the planters desire to prevent the success of the free-labor system, that
they may force Congress to revive slavery, or, what is more, a system of peonage.

5. The belief is general among the planters that without some means of "controlling" the persons
of the laborers they cannot succeed; and for this reason they desire to have the military force
removed, and the privilege of enacting such laws as will enable them to retain this power.

6. To defraud, oppress, and maltreat the freedmen seems to be the principle governing the action
of more than half of those who make contracts with them.

7. The lives of the freedmen are frequently threatened, and murders are not of uncommon occurrence.

8.

About the 15th of July Corporal J.M. Wallace, of company B, forty-seventh Indiana Veteran volunteer
infantry, was on duty with this bureau, and engaged in making contracts upon Red river, in
the parish of Caddo. He visited Mr. Daniel's plantation, and, as it is stated, started for
Mr. White's place, but never reached it. Being absent unaccountably, a sergeant and a detail
of four men were sent to look him up, but could find no trace of him. Without doubt he was
murdered. He was a young man of unexceptionable habits and character, and was highly esteemed
by the officers of his regiment. The circumstances of the case are such as to lead to the belief
that the planters in the vicinity connived at his death. Captain Hoke, another agent of the
bureau, was stopped by a highwayman within eight miles of Shreveport. One of my assistants
reports as follows: "In the northern part of this parish (Cuddo) there are men armed and banded
to resist the law." These facts prove that the presence of a military force is needed in every
parish. Instead of the present system of districts, I would recommend that the officer for
each parish report direct to headquarters at New Orleans for instructions, and that each officer
be furnished with at least twenty men, ten of whom should be mounted. I apprehend that at the
commencement of the next year the planters will endeavor to load us down with the aged and
infirm, and those with large families. To meet this and other difficulties that may arise,
I recommend that at least five thousand acres of land be confiscated in every parish, and an
opportunity given the freedmen to rent or purchase the land, and that every facility be afforded
planters in the lower part of the State to obtain laborers from western Louisiana. Another
remedy has been suggested, and as it meets with my approval I quote the recommendations of
the officer in his own words: "Let the white troops on duty in this department be mustered
out; they are greatly dissatisfied with remaining in the service after the close of the war;
let black troops be mustered in their stead. In urging this matter, I suggest that the government
has the first right to the services of the freedmen, and he needs the discipline of the army
to develop his manhood and self-reliance. Such a course of recruiting black soldiers will act
as a powerful restraint upon the abuses practiced by the planters on the freedmen, and will
also compel the payment of better wages. If the planter wishes the services of a shrewd, enterprising
freedman, he must out-bid the government. Lastly, the country needs the soldiers. Politicians
may say what they may; western Louisiana is no more loyal now than when the State adopted the
ordinance of secession."

The statistics given at the commencement prove that we have experienced less difficulty with
the freedmen than could have been expected. At times it has been necessary to adopt stringent
measures to stem the tide of freedmen that seemed to be setting in toward Shreveport, and many
of them have such vague ideas of the moral obligations of a contract that it has been necessary
to strengthen them by imprisonment and hard labor; but the great and insuperable difficulty
which meets us at every step is, that the planters and the freedmen have no confidence in and
respect for each other. The planters inform us that they are the best friends of the negro,
but the freedmen fail to see the matter in that light. I am well assured that as a general
rule the old planters and overseers can never succeed with the freedmen; that there must be
an entire change in either laborers or proprietors before the country will again be prosperous.
The plan of renting lands to the freedmen, as proposed by a few planters, I am of the opinion
will prove very profitable to both parties. While, as a general rule, there is constant difficulty
between the freedmen and their old masters and overseers, my agents and northern men have no
trouble with them; and should the planters employ practical farmers from the north as business
managers, it seems to be well demonstrated that the free-labor system, as it now is, with but
slight modifications, would be a grand success. In this connexion I cannot refrain from noticing
the assertion of a southern politician to the effect "that were the freedmen enfranchised,
nine out of ten of them would vote for their old masters," which assertion every freedman will
pronounce a wilful and malignant falsehood.

The country is full of arms, and their use upon the freedmen is so frequent, and the general
disposition of the people such, that I would strongly recommend, as a measure to secure the
safety of life and property, that all classes of arms be taken from the citizens, not to be
returned until an entirely different disposition is evinced.

The system to be made binding for the next year should be published as early as the 15th of
October, and the matter of contracting be commenced as soon thereafter as the parties desire
to do so. I would respectfully suggest the propriety for calling of such statistical matter
upon the back of the contract as will enable the officer in charge of the educational interests
to determine the whole number of freedmen residing in the different parishes, and also the
number of children of school age.

The establishment of schools will be met by the most venomous opposition, and a military force
will be required to protect the teacher and scholars from insult and injury unless the tone
of public sentiment improves very rapidly.

The civil authorities, so far as my knowledge extends, are not willing to grant the freedmen
the rights to which their freedom entitles them. In fact it became necessary, as will be seen
by a former report, for the military authorities to interfere to prevent their being virulently
oppressed. In consequence of this I have kept an officer constantly on duty adjusting the difficulties
arising between the whites and negroes, but important cases have been referred to the military
authorities.

Chaplain Thomas Callahan, the officer referred to above, in his last report says:

"To many of the planters the idea of a negro's testimony being as good as a white man's is
very unpleasant, and occasional attempts are made to bully and browbeat a colored witness upon
the stand. The attempt is never made twice. Once I pitted a lawyer against a negro witness,
held the parties on the cross-examination, and the lawyer was badly beaten. Some of the freedmen
can conduct a case with uncommon shrewdness."

I cannot urge upon your attention too strongly the importance of keeping an officer in every
parish and of providing him with a sufficient guard to command respect and enforce obedience
to the laws. The presence of a military force, with judicious and discreet officers to command
it, is the only means of securing to the freedmen their rights and of giving proper security
to life and property.

Ordinance relative to the police of recently emancipated negroes or freedmen within the corporate
limits of the town of Opelousas.

Whereas the relations formerly subsisting between master and slave have become changed by the
action of the controlling authorities; and whereas it is necessary to provide for the proper
police and government of the recently emancipated negroes or freedmen in their new relations
to the municipal authorities:

SECTION 1. Be it therefore ordained by the board of police of the town of Opelousas, That no
negro or freedman shall be allowed to come within the limits of the town of Opelousas without
special permission from his employers, specifying the object of his visit and the time necessary
for the accomplishment of the same. Whoever shall violate this provision shall suffer imprisonment
and two days' work on the public streets, or shall pay a fine of two dollars and fifty cents.

SECTION 2. Be it further ordained, That every negro freedman who shall be found on the streets
of Opelousas after 10 o'clock at night without a written pass or permit from his employer shall
be imprisoned and compelled to work five days on the public streets, or pay a fine of five
dollars. Any one violating the provisions of this, section shall be imprisoned and forced to
work for two days on the public streets.

SECTION 5. No public meetings or congregations of negroes or freedmen shall be allowed within
the limits of the town of Opelousas under any circumstances or for any purpose without the
permission of the mayor or president of the board. This prohibition is not intended, however,
to prevent the freedmen from attending the usual church services conducted by established ministers
of religion. Every freedman violating this law shall be imprisoned and made to work five days
on the public streets.

SECTION 6. No negro, or freedman shall be permitted to preach, exhort, or otherwise declaim
to congregations of colored people without a special permission from the mayor or president
of the board of police under the penalty of a fine of ten dollars or twenty days' work on the
public streets.

SECTION 7. No freedman who is not in the military service shall be allowed to carry firearms,
or any kind of weapons, within the limits of the town of Opelousas without the special permission
of his employer, in writing, and approved by the mayor or president of the board of police.
Any one thus offending shall forfeit his weapons and shall be imprisoned and made to work for
five days on the public streets or pay a fine of five dollars in lieu of said work.

SECTION 9. Any freedman found drunk within the limits of the town shall be imprisoned and made
to labor five days on the public streets, or pay five dollars in lieu of said labor.

SECTION 10. Any freedman not residing in Opelousas who shall be found within the corporate
limits after the hour of 3 p.m. on Sunday without a special permission from his employer or
the mayor shall be arrested and imprisoned and made to work two days on the public streets,
or pay two dollars in lieu of said work.

SECTION 11. All the foregoing provisions apply to freedmen and freedwomen, or both sexes.

SECTION 12. It shall be the special duty of the mayor or president of the board to see that
all the provisions of this ordinance are faithfully executed.

SECTION 13. Be it further ordained, That this ordinance to take effect from and after its first
publication.

Ordained the 3d day of July, 1865.

E.D. ESTILLETTE, President of the Board of Police.

JOS. D. RICHARDS, Clerk.

Official copy:

J. LOVELL, Captain and Assistant Adjutant General.

No. 35.

An ordinance relative to the police of negroes recently emancipated within the parish of St.
Landry.

Whereas it was formerly made the duty of the police jury to make suitable regulations for the
police of slaves within the limits of the parish; and whereas slaves have become emancipated
by the action of the ruling powers; and whereas it is necessary for public order, as well as
for the comfort and correct deportment of said freedmen, that suitable regulations should be
established for their government in their changed condition, the following ordinances are adopted,
with the approval of the United States military authorities commanding in said parish, viz:

SECTION 1. Be it ordained by the police jury of the parish of St. Landry, That no negro shall
be allowed to pass within the limits of said parish without a special permit in writing from
his employer. Whoever shall violate this provision shall pay a fine of two dollars and fifty
cents, or in default thereof shall be forced to work four days on the public road, or suffer
corporeal punishment as provided hereinafter.

SECTION 2. Be it further ordained, That every negro who shall be found absent from the residence
of his employer after 10 o'clock at night, without a written permit from his employer, shall
pay a fine of five dollars, or in default thereof, shall be compelled to work five days on
the public road, or suffer corporeal punishment as hereinafter provided.

SECTION 3. Be it further ordained, That no negro shall be permitted to rent or keep a house
within said parish. Any negro violating this provision shall be immediately ejected and compelled
to find an employer; and any person who shall rent, or give the use of any house to any negro,
in violation of this section, shall pay a fine of five dollars for each offence.

SECTION 4. But said employer or former owner may permit said negro to hire his own time by
special permission in writing, which permission shall not extend over seven days at any one
time. Be it further ordained, That no public meetings or congregations of negroes shall be
allowed within said parish after sunset; but such public meetings and congregations may be
held between the hours of sunrise and sunset, by the special permission in writing of the captain
of patrol, within whose beat such meetings shall take place. This prohibition, however, is
not intended to prevent negroes from attending the usual church services, conducted by white
ministers and priests. Be it further ordained, That no negro who is not in the military service
shall be allowed to carry fire-arms, or any kind of weapons, within the parish, without the
special written permission of his employers, approved and indorsed by the nearest or most convenient
chief of patrol. Be it further ordained, That no negro shall sell, barter, or exchange any
articles of merchandise or traffic within said parish without the special written permission
of his employer, specifying the articles of sale, barter or traffic. Be it further ordained,
That all the foregoing provisions shall apply to negroes of both sexes.

SECTION 11.

SECTION 12. Be it further ordained, That the aforesaid penalties shall be summarily enforced,
and that it shall be the duty of the captains and chiefs of patrol to see that the aforesaid
ordinances are promptly executed.

SECTION 13. Be it further ordained, That all sums collected from the aforesaid fines shall
be immediately handed over to the parish treasurer.

SECTION 14. Be it further ordained, That the corporeal punishment provided for in the foregoing
sections shall consist in confining the body of the offender within a barrel placed over his
or her shoulders, in the manner practiced in the army, such confinement not to continue longer
than twelve hours, and for such time within the aforesaid limit as shall be fixed by the captain
or chief of patrol who inflicts the penalty.

SECTION 15. Be it further ordained, That these ordinances shall not interfere with any municipal
or military regulations inconsistent with them within the limits of said parish.

SECTION 16. Be it further ordained, That these ordinances shall take effect five days after
their publication in the Opelousas Courier.

Official copy:

J. LOVELL, Captain and Assistant Adjutant General.

At a meeting of the citizens of the parish of St. Mary, held at the court-house in the town
of Franklin, on Saturday, the 15th instant, P.C. Bethel, Esq., was called to the chair, when
a committee was appointed to report upon certain matters submitted to the consideration of
the meeting, which committee reported by their chairman the following, which was unanimously
adopted:

REPORT OF THE COMMITTEE.

The committee appointed for the purpose of embodying the views and objects of the meeting of
the citizens of the parish of St. Mary, assembled at the court-house of said parish on the
15th day of July, A.D. 1865, to deliberate concerning the discipline of colored persons or
freedmen, respectfully report that they recommend to the town council of the town of Franklin
the adoption of the ordinance of the board of police of the town of Opelousas, passed on the
third day of the present month, with such alterations and modifications as may suit the wants
and necessities of this locality; also the ordinance of the same board of police passed on
the same day, relative to the town of Opelousas; which ordinances are herewith presented for
reference. And they furthermore recommend to the police jury of the parish of St. Mary, whenever
convened, to make such regulations with regard to the discipline and management of the freedmen
or colored population for the entire parish as may be most conducive to the quiet, tranquillity,
and productiveness of said parish generally. The committee further recommend to all well-disposed
citizens to co-operate with the authorities and with each other in producing a return to civil
rule and good order within the shortest delay possible, that the State of Louisiana may be
restored to her proper condition as regards internal political stability and tranquillity,
as well as the representation she is entitled to in the councils of the nation, which representation
is more important to her now than at any previous period of her history.

W.T. PALFREY, Chairman.

Proceedings of the Mayor and Council of the town of Franklin.

Friday, July 28, 1865.

Pursuant to call of the major commanding, the mayor and council met this day. Present: A.S.
Tucker, mayor; Wilson McKerall, Alfred Gates, John C. Gordy, and J.A. Peterman, members of
the council.

The following was unanimously adopted, viz:

ORDINANCE relative to the police of negroes or colored persons within the corporate limits
of the town of Franklin.

SEC. 1.

SEC. 2. Be it further ordained.

SEC. 3.

SEC. 4.

SEC. 5. No public meetings or congregations of negroes or colored persons shall be allowed
within the limits of the town of Franklin, under any circumstances or for any purpose, without
the permission of the mayor. This prohibition is not intended, however, to prevent negroes
or colored persons from attending the usual church service, conducted by established ministers
of religion. Every negro or colored person violating this law shall be imprisoned and put to
work five days on the public streets.

SEC. 6.

SEC. 7.

SEC. 8.

SEC. 9.

SEC. 10.

SEC. 11. All the foregoing provisions apply to negroes or colored persons of both sexes.

SEC. 12. It shall be the special duty of the town constable, under direction of the mayor,
to see that all the provisions of this ordinance are faithfully executed.

SEC. 13. Whoever in Franklin shall sell or give to any negro or colored person any intoxicating
liquors, or shall exchange or barter for the same with any such negro or colored person, without
special permission from the mayor or employer of said negro or colored person, shall, on conviction
thereof before the mayor or justice of the peace in and for the seventh ward of the parish
of St. Mary, pay a fine of twenty-five dollars and costs of prosecution, and in default of
the payment of said fine and costs the person thus offending shall suffer imprisonment in the
parish jail for ten days.

A.S. TUCKER, Mayor.

R.W. McMILLAN, Clerk.

Approved: GEO. R. DAVIS, Major Third Rhode Island Cavalry, Commanding Post.

[Telegram.]

New Orleans, August 10, 1865. The negroes are as free as other people. This ordinance, if enforced,
would be slavery in substance, which can never be. Attend to this matter with all the vigor
at your command. I have consulted General Canby, who concurs with me in the matter.

THOMAS W. CONWAY, Ass't. Comm. Bureau of Refugees, Freedmen, &c., State of Louisiana.

Lieutenant S.E. SHEPARD, Provost Marshal, Parish of St. Mary, Brashear City, or Franklin, La.

Official copy:

D.V. FENNO, First Lieutenant and A.A.A. General.

No. 36.

BUREAU REFUGEES, FREEDMEN AND ABANDONED LANDS, OFFICE ASSISTANT COMMISSIONER FOR STATE OF MISSISSIPPI,

Vicksburg, Miss., September 28, 1865.

General: I enclose a copy of the city ordinances. You will see that negroes who sell vegetables,
cakes, &c., on the street are required to pay ten dollars ($10) per month for the privilege
of doing so.

To illustrate the workings of this ordinance I will give you an actual occurrence in this city.

About a year ago an old negro man named Henderson, crippled with over-work, about seventy years
of age, was sent to me for support by the military authorities. I issued him rations for himself
and wife, an old negro woman, incapable of doing anything but care for herself. I continued
this till about January 1, 1865, when the old man came to me and informed me that if I would
allow him to sell apples and cakes to the soldiers on a corner of the street near my office,
under a large tree that grew there, he thought he could care for himself and make enough to
support himself and wife. I immediately gave him permission and an order to protect him. I
had but little faith in his being able to do it, as he was compelled to go on crutches and
was bent nearly double, owing to a severe whipping his old master had given him some years ago.

He commenced his work, and, much to my surprise, made enough to support himself, and asked
for no more assistance from me.

When the city authorities took charge of the city matters the marshal of the city ordered him
to pay the ten dollars per month for the privilege of supporting himself or desist from such trade.

The old man told him that all his profits would not amount to ten dollars per month, and that
in some months he did not make that amount of sales, but, as Colonel Thomas provided him with
a place to live, he could barely support himself by such trade. The marshal of the city informed
him that the tax must be paid by all, and that Colonel Thomas could take care of him, as it
was his duty to do so.

The old man came to my office and told me the whole affair. I wrote a letter to the mayor setting
forth the whole case, and that the collection of this tax on such old cripples would compel
me to support them, as they could not pay the city ten dollars per month and make their support.
In fact, ten dollars per month is the common wages for negro labor. The mayor refused to allow
the negro to continue his sales, and I was compelled to take charge of him. I would have refused
to allow the city authorities to interrupt him had it not been for General Orders No. 10, from
headquarters department of Mississippi, allowing the mayor to take charge of such matters.

I am, general, very respectfully,

SAMUEL THOMAS,

Colonel, Assistant Commissioner Freedmen's Bureau, State of Mississippi.

Major General C. SCHURZ.

Proceedings of the City Council.

At a regular meeting of the board of mayor and council of the city of Vicksburg, held at the
City Hall, on Monday, August 7, 1865: Present--T.J. Randolph, mayor; Messrs. Stites, Royall,
Johnson, Bender, Spengler, Manlove, and Porterfield, councilmen.

Mr. Stites introduced the following ordinance, which was read; and, on motion of Mr. Bender,
the rules were suspended, the ordinance read a second time; and, on motion of Mr. Manlove,
the rules were again suspended, the ordinance read a third time by its title, and passed.

Mr. Johnson called for the ayes and noes on the passage of the ordinance, which were taken:

Ayes--Stites, Royall, Bender, Spengler, Manlove, and Porterfield--6.

Nay--Johnson--1.

AN ORDINANCE to raise revenue for the city of Vicksburg.

SEC. 1. That there shall be assessed, levied, and collected upon the landholders, freeholders,
and householders of the city of Vicksburg, for the year commencing July 9, 1865, upon the ad
valorem worth of all houses, lots and parts of lots, and lands, and on all goods, wares, and
merchandise, on all moneys loaned at interest in said city, whether by a resident or nonresident
or a corporation, a general tax of fifty cents on every one hundred dollars' value thereof;
that said valuation or assessment shall be assessed from the 9th day of July, A.D. 1865, and
shall be for one year, but the tax so assessed shall be payable in advance.

SEC. 2. That on all goods, wares, and merchandise, produce, &c., contained or sold on board
any flatboat, or other water craft, there shall be assessed, levied, and collected upon the
ad valorem worth a general tax of fifty cents on every one hundred dollars' value thereof.

SEC. 3. That there shall be assessed, levied, and collected a poll tax of two dollars upon
every male inhabitant of said city over the age of twenty-one years.

SEC. 4. That the rate for license for the houses, business, &c., be assessed as follows, payable
as set forth in section 1: On all family groceries, porter-houses, eating-houses, oyster houses,
and restaurants, per year $40; on all auction stores, per year, $200; on all public auctioneers,
$50; on all banks, brokers, and exchange offices, $500; on all insurance companies having agents
in this city, $100; on all express companies, $200; on all wholesale and retail stores and
commission houses, $50; on all drays and carts, $20; on all hacks, $25; on all private boarding-houses
having ten or more boarders, $20; on all hotels, $100; on all rooms where billiard tables are
kept for playing, $200; on all rooms where bagatelle or pigeonhole tables are kept for playing,
$25; on all alleys known as ten-pin or nine-pin alleys, $200; on all livery stables, $50; on
all wagon yards, $40; on all barber shops, for each chair, $40; on all manufactories of ale,
porter, or soda-water per year, $75; on all bakeries, $25; on all theatres, circuses, animal
shows, or any public performance or exhibition where compensation is paid in money, each day,
$25; on all bar-rooms, or other places where vinous or spirituous liquors are sold in less
quantities than one gallon, per year, $500; on all confectionary, fruit or ice cream, soda
water or vegetable stores, $50; on all cigar stores, $50; on all shops where fresh meat is
sold, $50; on all street peddlers of goods, wares, or merchandise, fruit &c., except from market
carts from the country, per month, $10; on all live stock sold in this city, one-half of one
per cent, ad valorem.

SEC. 5. That all ordinances in any way conflicting with the provisions of this ordinance be,
and the same are hereby, repealed.

SEC. 6. That this ordinance take effect from and after its passage.

Vicksburg, Mississippi, August 7, 1865.

AN ORDINANCE to regulate the mode of obtaining licenses within the city of Vicksburg.

SEC. 1. That, before license shall be granted to any one to keep a family grocery, porter-house,
oyster-house, eating-house, or restaurant in this city, the person or persons so applying shall
execute a bond in the penal sum of $500, with one or more securities, payable to the mayor
of the city of Vicksburg and his successors in office, conditioned that he, she, or they will
keep an orderly and well-conducted house, and will not permit any riotous or disorderly conduct,
or any gaming in or about the same, and will not sell any vinous or spirituous liquors to any
one in less quantity than one gallon during the continuance of his or her license.

SEC. 2. That before any person or persons shall be licensed to retail vinous or spirituous
liquors within this city, he, she, or they shall produce before the board of mayor and council
of said city the written recommendation of five freeholders of his or her neighborhood, setting
forth that he or she is of good reputation and a suitable person to receive such license.

SEC. 3.

SEC. 4. That the bonds provided for in this ordinance shall be submitted to, and approved by,
the board of mayor and council before said license shall be issued.

SEC. 5. That if any person shall retail any vinous or spirituous liquors within this city in
less quantity than one gallon without first having procured license to do so, pursuant to the
provisions of this ordinance, or in any way violate the provisions of this ordinance, he shall,
upon conviction before the mayor of the city, be fined in a sum not less than one hundred nor
more than five hundred dollars.

SEC. 6. That before issuing license to any person or persons for the privilege of running a
public dray, cart, or hack in this city, the party so applying shall first file with the mayor
of the city a bond, with good and sufficient security, to be approved by the mayor, in the
penal sum of $500, conditioned for the faithful performance of their duties as public carriers.

SEC. 7. That all ordinances in any way conflicting with the provisions of this ordinance be,
and the same are hereby, repealed.

SEC. 8.

SEC. 1. That from and after the passage of this ordinance it shall not be lawful for any person
or persons to sell or expose for sale in the market-house of Vicksburg, after the hour of 9
o'clock a.m., any lemonade, ice-cream, cakes, pies, fruit, or vegetables, or other articles
usually sold in market, under the penalty of $10 for each and every offence.

SEC. 2. That it shall not be lawful for any person or persons trading in the market to buy
or bargain for, during market hours, or receive from any person or persons not renting a stall
in the market, any meat, fish, poultry, butter, eggs, vegetables, or fruits, and offer the
same for sale in the market again within ten days, under a penalty of $10 for each and every
offence.

SEC. 3. That it shall not be lawful for any person or persons to buy from any person on their
way to market, within the city, during market hours, any of the articles named in the second
section, or prevent such person from going to market with aforesaid articles, under a penalty
of $10 for each and every offence.

SEC. 4. That it shall be the duty of the day police of each ward to arrest and bring before
the mayor all persons found violating any section of the above ordinance.

SEC. 5. That all ordinances or parts of ordinances conflicting with this ordinance be, and
the same are hereby, repealed. 1. That all ferry-boats crossing the Mississippi river and landing
in the city limits shall pay the sum of $25 per week.

SEC. 2. That this ordinance shall be in force from and after its passage.

On motion of Mr. Manlove, the following resolution was adopted: Resolved, That hereafter it
shall be lawful for the city marshal to charge for prisoners committed to workhouse for board,
per day, sixty cents.

On motion of Mr. Spangler, the following resolution was adopted: Resolved, That the city marshal
notify the owners of property to have their side-walks and gutters repaired on Washington street,
between second corner of East to Depot street, in thirty days; and if not done, the city marshal
have it done, at the expense of the property.

On motion of Mr. Manlove, the following resolution was adopted: Resolved, That the mayor be
authorized to pay the policemen the amounts due them respectively to date, according to the
report by the city marshal.

On motion of Mr. Spangler, the following resolution was adopted: Resolved, That the overseers
of street hands' pay shall be $100 per month.

On motion of Mr. Manlove, the following resolution was adopted: Resolved, That the salary of
the city marshal shall be $1,200 per annum, the salary of the deputy marshal be $900 per annum,
and the salary of the policemen $60 per month, all of which shall be paid monthly.

On motion of Mr. Manlove, the following resolution was adopted: Resolved, That a committee
of two be appointed to receive proposals to publish the proceedings of the city council to
the third Monday in March next, and also inquire on what terms the city printing can be done,
and report to next meeting of this council.

The mayor appointed Messrs. Manlove and Bender on said committee.

On motion of Mr. Bender, the board adjourned till Thursday evening, August 10, at six o'clock.

T.J. RANDOLPH, Mayor.

No. 37.

FREEDMEN'S BUREAU, STATE OF MISSISSIPPI,

Office State Superintendent of Education,

Vicksburg, Miss., September 28, 1865.

