Halicarnassus was there before me (in the garden, I mean, not in the spot last alluded to).
It has been the one misfortune of my life that Halicarnassus got the start of me at the outset.
With a fair field and no favor I should have been quite adequate to him. As it was, he was
born and began, and there was no resource left to me but to be born and follow, which I did
as fast as possible; but that one false move could never be redeemed. I know there are shallow
thinkers who love to prate of the supremacy of mind over matter,--who assert that circumstances
are plastic as clay in the hands of the man who knows how to mould them. They clench their
fists, and inflate their lungs, and quote Napoleon's proud boast,--"Circumstances! I make circumstances!"
Vain babblers! Whither did this Napoleonic Idea lead? To a barren rock in a waste of waters.
Do we need St. Helena and Sir Hudson Lowe to refute it? Control circumstances! I should like
to know if the most important circumstance that can happen to a man isn't to be born? and if
that is under his control, or in any way affected by his whims and wishes? Would not Louis
XVI. have been the son of a goldsmith, if he could have had his way? Would Burns have been
born a slaving, starving peasant, if he had been consulted beforehand? Would not the children
of vice be the children of virtue, if they could have had their choice? and would not the whole
tenor of their lives have been changed thereby? Would a good many of us have been born at all,
if we could have helped it? Control circumstances, forsooth! when a mother's sudden terror
brings an idiot child into the world,--when the restive eye of his great-grandfather, whom
he never saw, looks at you from your two-year-old, and the spirit of that roving ancestor makes
the boy also a fugitive and a vagabond on the earth! No, no. We may coax circumstances a little,
and shove them about, and make the best of them, but there they are. We may try to get out
of their way; but they will trip us up, not once, but many times. We may affect to tread them
under foot in the daylight, but in the night-time they will turn again and rend us. All we
can do is first to accept them as facts, and then reason from them as premises. We cannot control
them, but we can control our own use of them. We can make them a savor of life unto life, or
of death unto death.

Application.--If mind could have been supreme over matter, Halicarnassus should, in the first
place, have taken the world at second-hand from me, and, in the second place, he should not
have stood smiling on the front-door steps when the coach set me down there. As it was, I made
the best of the one case by following in his footsteps,--not meekly, not acquiescently, but
protesting, yet following,--and of the other, by smiling responsive and asking pleasantly,--

"Are the things planted yet?"

"No," said Halicarnassus.

This was better than I had dared to hope. When I saw him standing there so complacent and serene,
I felt certain that a storm was brewing, or rather had brewed, and burst over my garden, and
blighted its fair prospects. I was confident that he had gone and planted every square inch
of the soil with some hideous absurdity which would spring up a hundred-fold in perpetual reminders
of the one misfortune to which I have alluded.

So his ready answer gave me relief, and yet I could not divest myself of a vague fear, a sense
of coming thunder. In spite of my endeavors, that calm, clear face would lift itself to my
view as a mere "weather-breeder"; but I ate my supper, unpacked my trunks, took out my papers
of precious seeds, and sitting in the flooding sunlight under the little western porch, I poured
them into my lap, and bade Halicarnassus come to me. He came, I am sorry to say, with a pipe
in his mouth.

"Do you wish to see my jewels?" I asked, looking as much like Cornelia as a little woman, somewhat
inclined to dumpiness, can.

Halicarnassus nodded assent.

"There," said I, unrolling a paper, "that is Lychnidea acuminala. Sometimes it flowers in white
masses, pure as a baby's soul. Sometimes it glows in purple, pink, and crimson, intense, but
unconsuming, like Horeb's burning bush. The old Greeks knew it well, and they baptized its
prismatic loveliness with their sunny symbolism, and called it the Flame-Flower. These very
seeds may have sprung centuries ago from the hearts of heroes who sleep at Marathon; and when
their tender petals quiver in the sunlight of my garden, I shall see the gleam of Attic armor
and the flash of royal souls. Like heroes, too, it is both beautiful and bold. It does not
demand careful cultivation,--no hot-house, tenderness"--

"I should rather think not," interrupted Halicarnassus. "Pat Curran has his front-yard full of it."

I collapsed at once, and asked humbly,--

"Where did he get it?"

"Got it anywhere. It grows wild almost. It's nothing but phlox. My opinion is, that the old
Greeks knew no more about it than that brindled cow."

Nothing further occurring to me to be said on the subject, I waived it and took up another
parcel, on which I spelled out, with some difficulty, "Delphinium exaltatum. Its name indicates
its nature."

"It's an exalted dolphin, then, I suppose," said Halicarnassus.

"Yes!" I said, dexterously catching up an argumentum ad hominem, "It is an exalted dolphin,--an
apotheosized dolphin,--a dolphin made glorious. For, as the dolphin catches the sunbeams and
sends them back with a thousand added splendors, so this flower opens its quivering bosom and
gathers from the vast laboratory of the sky the purple of a monarch's robe and the ocean's
deep, calm blue. In its gracious cup you shall see"--

"A fiddlestick!" jerked out Halicarnassus, profanely. "What are you raving about such a precious
bundle of weeds for? There isn't a shoemaker's apprentice in the village that hasn't his seven-by-nine
garden overrun with them. You might have done better than bring cartloads of phlox and larkspur
a thousand miles. Why didn't you import a few hollyhocks, or a sunflower or two, and perhaps
a dainty slip of cabbage? A pumpkin-vine, now, would climb over the front-door deliciously,
and a row of burdocks would make a highly entertaining border."

The reader will bear me witness that I had met my first rebuff with humility. It was probably
this very humility that emboldened him to a second attack. I determined to change my tactics
and give battle.

"Halicarnassus," said I, severely, "you are a hypocrite. You set up for a Democrat"--

"Not I," interrupted he; "I voted for Harrison in '40, and for Fremont in '56, and"--

"Nonsense!" interrupted I, in turn; "I mean a Democrat etymological, not a Democrat political.
You stand by the Declaration of Independence, and believe in liberty, equality, and fraternity,
and that all men are of one blood; and here you are, ridiculing these innocent flowers, because
their brilliant beauty is not shut up in a conservatory to exhale its fragrance on a fastidious
few, but blooms on all alike, gladdening the home of exile and lightening the burden of labor."

Halicarnassus saw that I had made a point against him, and preserved a discreet silence.

"But you are wrong," I went on, "even if you are right. You may laugh to scorn my floral treasures,
because they seem to you common and unclean, but your laughter is premature. It is no ordinary
seed that you see before you. It sprang from no profane soil. It came from the--the--some kind
of an office at WASHINGTON, Sir! It was given me by one whose name stands high on the scroll
of fame,--a statesman whose views are as broad as his judgment is sound,--an orator who holds
all hearts in his hand,--a man who is always found on the side of the feeble truth against
the strong falsehood,--whose sympathy for all that is good, whose hostility to all that is
bad, and whose boldness in every righteous cause make him alike the terror and abhorrence of
the oppressor, and the hope and joy and staff of the oppressed."

"What is his name?" said Halicarnassus, phlegmatically.

"And for your miserable pumpkin-vine," I went on, "behold this morning-glory, that shall open
its barbaric splendor to the sun and mount heavenward on the sparkling chariots of the dew.
I took this from the white hand of a young girl in whose heart poetry and purity have met,
grace and virtue have kissed each other,--whose feet have danced over lilies and roses, who
has known no sterner duty than to give caresses, and whose gentle, spontaneous, and ever active
loveliness continually remind me that of such is the kingdom of heaven."

"Courted yet?" asked Halicarnassus, with a show of interest.

I transfixed him with a look, and continued,--

"This Maurandia, a climber, it may be common or it may be a king's ransom. I only know that
it is rosy-hued, and that I shall look at life through its pleasant medium. Some fantastic
trellis, brown and benevolent, shall knot supporting arms around it, and day by day it shall
twine daintily up toward my southern window, and whisper softly of the sweet-voiced, tender-eyed
woman from whose fairy bower it came in rosy wrappings. And this Nemophila, 'blue as my brother's
eyes,'--the brave young brother whose heroism and manhood have outstripped his years, and who
looks forth from the dank leafiness of far Australia lovingly and longingly over the blue waters,
as if, floating above them, he might catch the flutter of white garments and the smile on a
sister's lip"--

"What are you going to do with 'em?" put in Halicarnassus again.

I hesitated a moment, undecided whether to be amiable or bellicose under the provocation, but
concluded that my ends would stand a better chance of being gained by adopting the former course,
and so answered seriously, as if I had not been switched off the track, but was going on with
perfect continuity,--

"To-morrow I shall take observations. Then, where the situation seems most favorable, I shall
lay out a garden. I shall plant these seeds in it, except the vines and such things, which
I wish to put near the house to hide as much as possible its garish white. Then, with every
little tender shoot that appears above the ground, there will blossom also a pleasant memory
or a sunny hope or an admiring thrill."

"What do you expect will be the market-value of that crop?"

"Wealth which an empire could not purchase," I answered, with enthusiasm. "But I shall not
confine my attention to flowers. I shall make the useful go with the beautiful. I shall plant
vegetables,-- lettuce, and asparagus, and--so forth. Our table shall be garnished with the
products of our own soil, and our own works shall praise us."

There was a pause of several minutes, during which I fondled the seeds and Halicarnassus enveloped
himself in clouds of smoke. Presently there was a cessation of puffs, a rift in the cloud showed
that the oracle was opening his mouth, and directly thereafter he delivered himself of the
encouraging remark,--

"If we don't have any vegetables till we raise 'em, we shall be carnivorous some time to come."

It was said with that provoking indifference more trying to a sensitive mind than downright
insult. You know it is based on some hidden obstacle, palpable to your enemy, though hidden
from you,--and that he is calm because he know that the nature of things will work against
you, so that he need not interfere. If I had been less interested, I would have revenged myself
on him by remaining silent; but I was very much interested, so I strangled my pride and said,--

"Why not?"

"Land is too old for such things. Soil isn't mellow enough."

I had always supposed that the greater part of the main-land of our continent was of equal
antiquity, and dated back alike to the alluvial period; but I suppose our little three acres
must have been injected through the intervening strata by some physical convulsion, from the
drift, or the tertiary formation, perhaps even from the primitive granite.

"What are you going to do?" I ventured to inquire. "I don't suppose the land will grow any
younger by keeping."

"Plant it with corn and potatoes for at least two years before there can be anything like a
garden."

And Halicarnassus put up his pipe and betook himself to the house, and I was glad of it, the
abominable bore! to sit there and listen to my glowing schemes, knowing all the while that
they were soap-bubbles. "Corn and potatoes," indeed! I didn't believe a word of it. Halicarnassus
always had an insane passion for corn and potatoes. Land represented to him so many bushels
of the one or the other. Now corn and potatoes are very well in their way, but, like every
other innocent indulgence, carried too far, become a vice; and I more than suspected he had
planned the strategy simply to gratify his own weakness. Corn and potatoes, indeed!

But when Halicarnassus entered the lists against me, he found an opponent worthy of his steel.
A few more such victories would be his ruin. A grand scheme fired and filled my mind during
the silent watches of the night, and sent me forth in the morning, jubilant with high resolve.
Alexander might weep that he had no more worlds to conquer; but I would create new. Archimedes
might desiderate a place to stand on before he could bring his lever into play; I would move
the world, self-poised. If Halicarnassus fancied that I was cut up, dispersed, and annihilated
by one disaster, he should weep tears of blood to see me rise, Phoenix-like, from the ashes
of my dead hopes, to a newer and more glorious life. Here, having exhausted my classics, I
took a long sweep down to modern times, and vowed in my heart never to give up the ship.

Halicarnassus saw that a fell purpose was working in my mind, but a certain high tragedy in
my aspect warned him to silence; so he only dogged me around the corners of the house, eyed
me askance from the wood-shed, and peeped through the crevices of the demented little barn.
But his vigilance bore no fruit. I but walked moodily "with folded arms and fixed eyes," or
struck out new paths at random, so long as there were any vestiges of his creation extant.
His time and patience being at length exhausted, he went into the field to immolate himself
with ever new devotion on the shrine of corn and potatoes. Then my scheme came to a head at
once. In my walking, I had observed a box about three feet long, two broad, and one foot deep,
which Halicarnassus, with his usual disregard of the proprieties of life, had used to block
up a gate-way that was waiting for a gate. It was just what I wanted. I straightway knocked
out the few nails that kept it in place, and, like another Samson, bore it away on my shoulders.
It was not an easy thing to manage, as any one may find by trying,--nor would I advise young
ladies, as a general thing, to adopt that form of exercise,--but the end, not the means, was
my object, and by skilful diplomacy I got it up the backstairs and through my window, out upon
the roof of the porch directly below. I then took the ash-pail and the fire-shovel and went
into the field, carefully keeping the lee side of Halicarnassus. "Good, rich loam" I had observed
all the gardening books to recommend; but wherein the virtue or the richness of loam consisted
I did not feel competent to decide, and I scorned to ask. There seemed to be two kinds: one
black, damp, and dismal; the other fine, yellow, and good-natured. A little reflection decided
me to take the latter. Gold constituted riches, and this was yellow like gold. Moreover, it
seemed to have more life in it. Night and darkness belonged to the other, while the very heart
of sunshine and summer seemed to be imprisoned in this golden dust. So I plied my shovel and
filled my pail again and again, bearing it aloft with joyful labor, eager to be through before
Halicarnassus should reappear; but he got on the trail just as I was whisking up-stairs for
the last time, and shouted, astonished,--

"What are you doing?"

"Nothing," I answered, with that well-known accent which says, "Everything! and I mean to keep
doing it."

I have observed, that, in managing parents, husbands, lovers, brothers, and indeed all classes
of inferiors, nothing is so efficacious as to let them know at the outset that you are going
to have your own way. They may fret a little at first, and interpose a few puny obstacles,
but it will be only a temporary obstruction; whereas, if you parley and hesitate and suggest,
they will but gather courage and strength for a formidable resistance. It is the first step
that costs. Halicarnassus understood at once from my one small shot that I was in a mood to
be let alone, and he let me alone accordingly.

I remembered he had said that the soil was not mellow enough, and I determined that my soil
should be mellow, to which end I took it up by handfuls and squeezed it through my fingers,
completely pulverizing it. It was not disagreeable work. Things in their right places are very
seldom disagreeable. A spider on your dress is a horror, but a spider outdoors is rather interesting.
Besides, the loam had a fine, soft feel that was absolutely pleasant; but a hideous black and
yellow reptile with horns and hoofs, that winked up at me from it, was decidedly unpleasant
and out of place, and I at once concluded that the soil was sufficiently mellow for my purposes,
and smoothed it off directly. Then, with delighted fingers, in sweeping circles, and fantastic
whirls, and exact triangles, I planted my seeds in generous profusion, determined, that, if
my wilderness did not blossom, it should not be from niggardliness of seed. But even then my
box was full before my basket was emptied, and I was very reluctantly compelled to bring down
from the garret another box, which had been the property of my great-grandfather. My great-grandfather
was, I regret to say, a barber. I would rather never have had any. If there is anything in
the world besides worth that I reverence, it is ancestry. My whole life long have I been in
search of a pedigree, and though I ran well at the beginning, I invariably stop short at the
third remove by running my head into a barber's shop. If he had only been a farmer, now, I
should not have minded. There is something dignified and antique in land, and no one need trouble
himself to ascertain whether "farmer" stood for a close-fisted, narrow-souled clodhopper, or
the smiling, benevolent master of broad acres. Farmer means both these, I could have chosen
the meaning I liked, and it is not probable that any troublesome facts would have floated down
the years to intercept any theory I might have launched. I would rather he had been a shoemaker;
it would have been so easy to transform him, after his lamented decease, into a shoe-manufacturer,--and
shoe-manufacturers, we all know, are highly respectable people, often become great men, and
get sent to Congress. An apothecary might have figured as an M.D. A greengrocer might have
been apotheosized into a merchant. A dancing-master would flourish on the family-records as
a professor of the Terpsichorean art. A taker of daguerreotype portraits would never be recognized
in "my great-grandfather the artist." But a barber is unmitigated and immitigable. It cannot
be shaded off nor toned down nor brushed up. Besides, was greatness ever allied to barbarity?
Shakspeare's father was a wool-driver, Tillotson's a clothier, Barrow's a linen-draper, Defoe's
a butcher, Milton's a scrivener, Richardson's a joiner, Burns's a farmer; but did any one ever
hear of a barber's having remarkable children? I must say, with all deference to my great-grandfather,
that I do wish he would have been considerate enough of his descendants' feelings to have been
born in the old days when barbers and doctors were one, or else have chosen some other occupation
than barbering. Barber he did, however; in this very box he kept his wigs, and, painful as
it was to have continually before my eyes this perpetual reminder of plebeian great-grand-paternity,
I consented to it rather than lose my seeds. Then I folded my hands in sweet, though calm satisfaction.
I had proved myself equal to the emergency, and that always diffuses a glow of genial complacency
through the soul. I had outwitted Halicarnassus. Exultation number two. He had designed to
cheat me out of my garden by a story about land, and here was my garden ready to burst forth
into blossom under my eyes. He said little, but I knew he felt deeply. I caught him one day
looking out at my window with corroding envy in every lineament. "You might have got some dust
out of the road; it would have been nearer." That was all he said. Even that little I did not
fully understand.

I watched, and waited, and watered, in silent expectancy, for several days, but nothing came
up, and I began to be anxious. Suddenly I thought of my vegetable-seeds, and determined to
try those. Of course a hanging kitchen-garden was not to be thought of, and as Halicarnassus
was fortunately absent for a few days, I prospected on the farm. A sunny little corner on a
southern slope smiled up at me, and seemed to offer itself as a delightful situation for the
diminutive garden which mine must be. The soil, too, seemed as fine and mellow as could be
desired. I at once captured an Englishman from a neighboring plantation, hurried him into my
corner, and bade him dig me and hoe me and plant me a garden as soon as possible. He looked
blankly at me for a moment, and I looked blankly at him,--wondering what lion he saw in the way.

"Them is planted with potatoes now," he gasped, at length.

"No matter," I returned, with sudden relief to find that nothing but potatoes interfered. "I
want it to be unplanted, and planted with vegetables,--lettuce and--asparagus--and such."

He stood hesitating.

"Will the master like it?"

"Yes," said Diplomacy, "he will be delighted."

"No matter whether he likes it or not," codiciled Conscience. "You do it."

"I--don't exactly like--to--take the responsibility," wavered this modern Faint-Heart.

"I don't want you to take the responsibility," I ejaculated, with volcanic vehemence. "I'll
take the responsibility. You take the hoe."

These duty-people do infuriate me. They are so afraid to do anything that isn't laid out in
a right-angled triangle. Every path must be graded and turfed before they dare set their scrupulous
feet in it. I like conscience, but, like corn and potatoes, carried too far, it becomes a vice.
I think I could commit a murder with less hesitation than some people buy a ninepenny calico.
And to see that man stand there, balancing probabilities over a piece of ground no bigger than
a bed-quilt, as if a nation's fate were at stake, was enough to ruffle a calmer temper than
mine. My impetuosity impressed him, however, and he began to lay about him vigorously with
hoe and rake and lines, and, in an incredibly short space of time, had a bit of square flatness
laid out with wonderful precision. Meanwhile I had ransacked my vegetable-bag, and though lettuce
and asparagus were not there, plenty of beets and parsnips and squashes, etc., were. I let
him take his choice. He took the first two. The rest were left on my hands. But I had gone
too far to recede. They burned in my pocket for a few days, and I saw that I must get them
into the ground somewhere. I could not sleep with them in the room. They were wandering shades
craving at my hands a burial, and I determined to put them where Banquo's ghost would not go,--down.
Down accordingly they went, but not symmetrically nor simultaneously. I faced Halicarnassus
on the subject of the beet-bed, and though I cannot say that either of us gained a brilliant
victory, yet I can say that I kept possession of the ground; still, I did not care to risk
a second encounter. So I kept my seeds about me continually, and dropped them surreptitiously
as occasion offered. Consequently, my garden, taken as a whole, was located where the Penobscot
Indian was born,--"all along shore." The squashes were scattered among the corn. The beans
were tucked under the brushwood, in the fond hope that they would climb up it. Two tomato-plants
were lodged in the potato-field, under the protection of some broken apple-branches dragged
thither for the purpose. The cucumbers went down on the sheltered side of a wood-pile. The
peas took their chances of life under the sink-nose. The sweet-corn was marked off from the
rest by a broomstick,--and all took root alike in my heart.

May I ask you now, O Friend, who, I would fain believe, have followed me thus far with no hostile
eyes, to glide in tranced forgetfulness through the white blooms of May and the roses of June,
into the warm breath of July afternoons and the languid pulse of August, perhaps even into
the mild haze of September and the "flying gold" of brown October? In narrating to you the
fruition of my hopes, I shall endeavor to preserve that calm equanimity which is the birthright
of royal minds. I shall endeavor not to be unduly elated by success nor unduly depressed by
failure, but to state in simple language the result of my experiments, both for an encouragement
and a warning. I shall give the history of the several ventures separately, as nearly as I
can recollect in the order in which they grew, beginning with the humbler ministers to our
appetites, and soaring gradually into the region of the poetical and the beautiful.

BEETS.--The beets came up, little red-veined leaves, struggling for breath among a tangle of
Roman wormwood and garlic; and though they exhibited great tenacity of life, they also exhibited
great irregularity of purpose. In one spot there would be nothing, in an adjacent spot a whorl
of beets, big and little, crowding and jostling and elbowing each other, like school-boys round
the red-hot stove on a winter's morning. I knew they had been planted in a right line, and
I don't, even now, comprehend why they should not come up in a right line. I weeded them, and
though freedom from foreign growth discovered an intention, of straightness, the most casual
observer could not but see that skewiness had usurped its place. I repaired to my friend the
gardener. He said they must be thinned out and transplanted. It went to my heart to pull up
the dear things, but I did it, and set them down again tenderly in the vacant spots. It was
evening. The next morning I went to them. Flatness has a new meaning to me since that morning.
You can hardly conceive that anything could look so utterly forlorn, disconsolate, disheartened,
and collapsed. In fact, they exhibited a degree of depression so entirely beyond what the circumstances
demanded, that I was enraged. If they had shown any symptoms of trying to live, I could have
sighed and forgiven them; but, on the contrary, they had flopped and died without a struggle,
and I pulled them up without a pang, comforting myself with the remaining ones, which throve
on their companions' graves, and waxed fat and full and crimson-hearted, in their soft, brown
beds. So delighted was I with their luxuriant rotundity, that I made an internal resolve that
henceforth I would always plant beets. True, I cannot abide beets. Their fragrance and their
flavor are alike nauseating; but they come up, and a beet that will come up is better than
a cedar of Lebanon that won't. In all the vegetable kingdom I know of no quality better than
this, growth,--nor any quality that will atone for its absence.

PARSNIPS.--They ran the race with an indescribable vehemence that fairly threw the beets into
the shade. They trod so delicately at first that I was quite unprepared for such enthusiasm.
Lacking the red veining, I could not distinguish them even from the weeds with any certainty,
and was forced to let both grow together till the harvest. So both grew together, a perfect
jungle. But the parsnips got ahead, and rushed up gloriously, magnificently, bacchanalianly,--as
the winds come when forests are rended,--as the waves come when navies are stranded. I am,
indeed, troubled with a suspicion that their vitality has all run to leaves, and that, when
I go down into the depths of the earth for the parsnips, I shall find only bread of emptiness.
It is a pleasing reflection that parsnips cannot be eaten till the second year. I am told that
they must lie in the ground during the winter. Consequently it cannot be decided whether there
are any or not till next spring. I shall in the mean time assume and assert without hesitation
or qualification that there are as many tubers below the surface as there are leaves above
it. I shall thereby enjoy a pleasant consciousness, and the respect of all, for the winter;
and if disappointment awaits me in the spring, time will have blunted its keenness for me,
and other people will have forgotten the whole subject. You may be sure I shall not remind
them of it.

CUCUMBERS.--The cucumbers came up so far and stuck. It must have been innate depravity, for
there was no shadow of reason why they should not keep on as they began. They did not. They
stopped growing in the prime of life. Only three cucumbers developed, and they hid under the
vines so that I did not see them till they were become ripe, yellow, soft, and worthless. They
are an unwholesome fruit at best, and I bore their loss with great fortitude.

TOMATOES.--Both dead. I had been instructed to protect them from the frost by night and from
the sun by day. I intended to do so ultimately, but I did not suppose there was any emergency.
A frost came the first night and killed them, and a hot sun the next day burned up all there
was left. When they were both thoroughly dead, I took great pains to cover them every night
and noon. No symptoms of revival appearing to reward my efforts, I left them to shift for themselves.
I did not think there was any need of their dying, in the first place; and if they would be
so absurd as to die without provocation, I did not see the necessity of going into a decline
about it. Besides, I never did value plants or animals that have to be nursed, and petted,
and coaxed to live. If things want to die, I think they'd better die. Provoked by my indifference,
one of the tomatoes flared up and took a new start,--put forth leaves, shot out vines, and
covered himself with fruit and glory. The chickens picked out the heart of all the tomatoes
as soon as they ripened, which was of no consequence, however, as they had wasted so much time
in the beginning that the autumn frosts came upon them unawares, and there wouldn't have been
fruit enough ripe to be of any account, if no chicken had ever broken a shell. In consternation
I sought again my neighbor the Englishman. He assured me he had 'em on his, too,--lots of 'em.
This reconciled me to mine. Bugs are not inherently desirable, but a universal bug does not
indicate special want of skill in any one. So I was comforted. But the Englishman said they
must be killed. He had killed his. Then I said I would kill mine, too. How should it be done?
Oh! put a shingle near the vine at night and they would crawl upon it to keep dry, and go out
early in the morning and kill 'em. But how to kill them? Why, take 'em right between your thumb
and finger and crush 'em!

As soon as I could recover breath, I informed him confidentially, that, if the world were one
great squash, I wouldn't undertake to save it in that way. He smiled a little, but I think
he was not overmuch pleased. I asked him why I couldn't take a bucket of water and dip the
shingle in it and drown them. He said, well, I could try it. I did try it,--first wrapping
my hand in a cloth to prevent contact with any stray bug. To my amazement, the moment they
touched the water they all spread unseen wings and flew away, safe and sound. Of course I gave
up the design of drowning them. I called a council of war. One said I must put a newspaper
over them and fasten it down at the edges; then they couldn't get in. I timidly suggested that
the squashes couldn't get out. Yes, they could, he said,--they'd grow right through the paper.
Another said I must surround them with round boxes with the bottoms broken out; for, though
they could fly, they couldn't steer, and when they flew up, they just dropped down anywhere,
and as there was on the whole a good deal more land on the outside of the boxes than on the
inside, the chances were in favor of their dropping on the outside. Another said that ashes
must be sprinkled on them. A fourth said lime was an infallible remedy. I began with the paper,
which I secured with no little difficulty; for the wind--the same wind, strange to say--kept
blowing the dirt at me and the paper away from me; but I consoled myself by remembering the
numberless rows of squash-pies that should crown my labors, and May took heart from Thanksgiving.
The next day I peeped under the paper and the bugs were a solid phalanx. I reported at head-quarters,
and they asked me if I killed the bugs before I put the paper down. I said no, I supposed it
would stifle them,--in fact, I didn't think anything about it, but if I thought anything, that
was what I thought. I wasn't pleased to find I had been cultivating the bugs and furnishing
them with free lodgings. I went home and tried all the remedies in succession. I could hardly
decide which agreed best with the structure and habits of the bugs, but they throve on all.
Then I tried them all at once and all o'er with a mighty uproar. Presently the bugs went away.
I am not sure that they wouldn't have gone just as soon, if I had let them alone. After they
were gone, the vines scrambled out and put forth some beautiful, deep golden blossoms. When
they fell off, that was the end of them. Not a squash,--not one,--not a single squash,--not
even a pumpkin. They were all false blossoms.

APPLES.--The trees swelled into masses of pink and white fragrance. Nothing could exceed their
fluttering loveliness or their luxuriant promise. A few days of fairy beauty, and showers of
soft petals floated noiselessly down, covering the earth with delicate snow; but I knew, that,
though the first blush of beauty was gone, a mighty work was going on in a million little laboratories,
and that the real glory was yet to come. I was surprised to observe, one day, that the trees
seemed to be turning red. I remarked to Halicarnassus that that was one of Nature's processes
which I did not remember to have seen noticed in any botanical treatise. I thought such a change
did not occur till autumn. Halicarnassus curved the thumb and forefinger of his right hand
into an arch, the ends of which rested on the wrist of his left coat-sleeve. He then lifted
the forefinger high and brought it forward. Then he lifted the thumb and brought it up behind
the forefinger, and so made them travel up to his elbow. It seemed to require considerable
exertion in the thumb and forefinger, and I watched the progress with interest. Then I asked
him what he meant by it.

"That's the way they walk," he replied.

"Who walk?"

"The little fellows that have squatted on our trees."

"What little fellows do you mean?"

"The canker-worms."

"How many are there?"

"About twenty-five decillions, I should think, as near as I can count."

"Why! what are they for? What good do they do?"

"Oh! no end. Keep the children from eating green apples and getting sick."

"How do they do that?"

"Eat 'em themselves."

A frightful idea dawned upon me. I believe I turned a kind of ghastly blue.

"Halicarnassus, do you mean to tell me that the canker-worms are eating up our apples and that
we shan't have any?"

"It looks like that exceedingly."

That was months ago, and it looks a great deal more like it now. I watched those trees with
sadness at my heart. Millions of brown, ugly, villanous worms gnawed, gnawed, gnawed, at the
poor little tender leaves and buds,--held them in foul embrace,--polluted their sweetness with
hateful breath. I could almost feel the shudder of the trees in that slimy clasp,--could almost
hear the shrieking and moaning of the young fruit that saw its hope of happy life thus slowly
consuming; but I was powerless to save. For weeks that loathsome army preyed upon the unhappy,
helpless trees, and then spun loathsomely to the ground, and buried itself in the reluctant,
shuddering soil. A few dismal little apples escaped the common fate, but when they rounded
into greenness and a suspicion of pulp, a boring worm came and bored them, and they, too, died.
No apple-pies at Thanksgiving. No apple-roasting in winter evenings. No pan-pie with hot brown
bread on Sunday mornings.

CHERRIES.--They rivalled the apple-blooms in snowy profusion, and the branches were covered
with tiny balls. The sun mounted warm and high in the heavens and they blushed under his ardent
gaze. I felt an increasing conviction that here there would be no disappointment; but it soon
became palpable that another class of depredators had marked our trees for their own. Little
brown toes could occasionally be seen peeping from the foliage, and little bare feet left their
print on the garden-soil. Humanity had evidently deposited its larva in the vicinity. There
was a schoolhouse not very far away, and the children used to draw water from an old well in
a distant part of the garden. It was surprising to see how thirsty they all became as the cherries
ripened. It was as if the village had simultaneously agreed to breakfast on salt fish. Their
wooden bucket might have been the urn of the Danaïdes, judging from the time it took to fill
it. The boys were as fleet of foot as young zebras, and presented upon discovery no apology
or justification but their heels,--which was a wise stroke in them. A troop of rosy-cheeked,
bright-eyed little snips in white pantalets, caught in the act, reasoned with in a semi-circle,
and cajoled with candy, were as sweet as distilled honey, and promised with all their innocent
hearts and hands not to do so any more. But the real pièce de résistance was a mass of pretty
well developed crinoline which an informal walk in the infested district brought to light,
engaged in a systematic raid upon the tempting fruit. Now, in my country, the presence of unknown
individuals in your own garden, plucking your fruit from your trees, without your knowledge
and against your will, is universally considered as affording presumptive evidence of--something.
In this part of the world, however, I find they do things differently. It doesn't furnish presumptive
evidence of anything. If you think it does, you do so at your own risk. I thought it did, and
escaped by the skin of my teeth. I hinted my views, and found myself in a den of lions, and
was thankful to come out second-best. Second? nay, third-best, fourth-best, no best at all,
not even good,--very bad. In short, I was glad to get out with my life. Nor was my repulse
confined to the passing hour. The injured innocents come no more for water. I am consumed with
inward remorse as I see them daily file majestically past my house to my neighbor's well. I
have resolved to plant a strawberry-bed next year, and offer them the fruit of it by way of
atonement, and never, under any provocation, hereafter, to assert or insinuate that I have
any claim whatever to anything under the sun. If this course, perseveringly persisted in, does
not restore the state of quo, I am hopeless. I have no further resources.

The one drop of sweetness in the bitter cup was, that the cherries, being thus let severely
alone, were allowed to hang on the trees and ripen. It took them a great while. If they had
been as big as hogsheads, I should think the sun might have got through them sooner than he
did. They looked ripe long before they were so; and as they were very plenty, the trees presented
a beautiful appearance. I bought a stack of fantastic little baskets from a travelling Indian
tribe, at a fabulous price, for the sake of fulfilling my long-cherished design of sending
fruit to my city friends. After long waiting, Halicarnassus came in one morning with a tin
pail full, and said that they were ripe at last, for they were turning purple and falling off;
and he was going to have them gathered at once. He had brought in the first-fruits for breakfast.
I put them in the best preserve-dish, twined it with myrtle, and set it in the centre of the
table. It looked charming,--so ruddy and rural and Arcadian. I wished we could breakfast out-doors;
but the summer was one of unusual severity, and it was hardly prudent thus to brave its rigor.
We had cup-custards at the close of our breakfast that morning,--very vulgar, but very delicious.
We reached the cherries at the same moment, and swallowed the first one simultaneously. The
effect was instantaneous and electric. Halicarnassus puckered his face into a perfect wheel,
with his mouth for the hub. I don't know how I looked, but I felt badly enough.

"It was unfortunate that we had custards this morning," I remarked. "They are so sweet that
the cherries seem sour by contrast. We shall soon get the sweet taste out of our mouths, however."

"That's so!" said Halicarnassus, who will be coarse.

We tried another. He exhibited a similar pantomime, with improvements. My feelings were also
the same, intensified.

"I am not in luck to-day," I said, attempting to smile. "I got hold of a sour cherry this time."

"I got hold of a bitter one," said Halicarnassus.

"Mine was a little bitter, too," I added.

"Mine was a little sour, too," said Halicarnassus.

"We shall have to try again," said I.

We did try again.

"Mine was a good deal of both this time," said Halicarnassus. "But we will give them a fair trial."

"Yes," said I, sepulchrally.

We sat there sacrificing ourselves to abstract right for five minutes. Then I leaned back in
my chair, and looked at Halicarnassus. He rested his right elbow on the table, and looked at me.

"Well," said he, at last, "how are cherries and things?"

"Halicarnassus," said I, solemnly, "it is my firm conviction that farming is not a lucrative
occupation. You have no certain assurance of return, either for labor or capital invested.
Look at it. The bugs eat up the squashes. The worms eat up the apples. The cucumbers won't
grow at all. The peas have got lost. The cherries are bitter as wormwood and sour as you in
your worst moods. Everything that is good for anything won't grow, and everything that grows
isn't good for anything."

"My Indian corn, though," began Halicarnassus; but I snapped him up before he was fairly under
way. I had no idea of travelling in that direction.

"What am I to do with all those baskets that I bought, I should like to know?" I asked, sharply.

"What did you buy them for?" he asked in return.

"To send cherries to the Hudsons and the Mavericks and Fred Ashley," I replied promptly.

"Why don't you send 'em, then? There's plenty of them,--more than we shall want."

"Because," I answered, "I have not exhausted the pleasures of friendship. Nor do I perceive
the benefit that would accrue from turning life-long friends into life-long enemies."

"I'll tell you what we can do," said Halicarnassus. "We can give a party and treat them to
cherries. They'll have to eat 'em out of politeness."

"Halicarnassus," said I, "we should be mobbed. We should fall victims to the fury of a disappointed
and enraged populace."

"At any rate," said he, "we can offer them to chance visitors."

The suggestion seemed to me a good one,--at any rate, the only one that held out any prospect
of relief. Thereafter, whenever friends called singly or in squads,--if the squads were not
large enough to be formidable,--we invariably set cherries before them, and with generous hospitality
pressed them to partake. The varying phases of emotion which they exhibited were painful to
me at first, but I at length came to take a morbid pleasure in noting them. It was a study
for a sculptor. By long practice I learned to detect the shadow of each coming change, where
a casual observer would see only a serene expanse of placid politeness. I knew just where the
radiance, awakened by the luscious, swelling, crimson globes, faded into doubt, settled into
certainty, glared into perplexity, fired into rage. I saw the grimace, suppressed as soon as
begun, but not less patent to my preternaturally keen eyes. No one deceived me by being suddenly
seized with admiration of a view. I knew it was only to relieve his nerves by making faces
behind the window-curtains.

I grew to take a fiendish delight in watching the conflict, and the fierce desperation which
marked its violence. On the one side were the forces of fusion, a reluctant stomach, an unwilling
oesophagus, a loathing palate; on the other, the stern, unconquerable will. A natural philosopher
would have gathered new proofs of the unlimited capacity of the human race to adapt itself
to circumstances, from the débris that strewed our premises after each fresh departure. Cherries
were chucked under the sofa, into the table-drawers, behind the books, under the lamp-mats,
into the vases, in any and every place where a dexterous hand could dispose of them without
detection. Yet their number seemed to suffer no abatement. Like Tityus's liver, they were constantly
renewed, though constantly consumed. The small boys seemed to be suffering from a fit of conscience.
In vain we closed the blinds and shut ourselves up in the house to give them a fair field.
Not a cherry was taken. In vain we went ostentatiously to church all day on Sunday. Not a twig
was touched. Finally I dropped all the curtains on that side of the house, and avoided that
part of the garden in my walks. The cherries may be hanging there to this day, for aught I know.

But why do I thus linger over the sad recital? "Ab uno disce omnes." (A quotation from Virgil:
means, "All of a piece.") There may have been, there probably was, an abundance of sweet-corn,
but the broomstick that had marked the spot was lost, and I could in no wise recall either
spot or stick. Nor did I ever see or hear of the peas,--or the beans. If our chickens could
be brought to the witness-box, they might throw light on the subject. As it is, I drop a natural
tear, and pass on to

THE FLOWER-GARDEN.--It appeared very much behind time,--chiefly Roman wormwood. I was grateful
even for that. Then two rows of four-o'clocks became visible to the naked eye. They are cryptogamous,
it seems. Botanists have hitherto classed them among the Phaenogamia. A sweet-pea and a china-aster
dawdled up just in time to get frost-bitten. "Et praeterea nihil." (Virgil: means, "That's
all.") I am sure it was no fault of mine. I tended my seeds with assiduous care. My devotion
was unwearied. I was a very slave to their caprices. I planted them just beneath the surface
in the first place, so that they might have an easy passage. In two or three days they all
seemed to be lying round loose on the top, and I planted them an inch deep. Then I didn't see
them at all for so long that I took them up again, and planted them half-way between. It was
of no use. You cannot suit people or plants that are determined not to be suited.

Yet, sad as my story is, I cannot regret that I came into the country and attempted a garden.
It has been fruitful in lessons, if in nothing else. I have seen how every evil has its compensating
good. When I am tempted to repine that my squashes did not grow, I reflect, that, if they had
grown, they would probably have all turned into pumpkins, or if they had stayed squashes, they
would have been stolen. When it seems a mysterious Providence that kept all my young hopes
underground, I reflect how fine an illustration I should otherwise have lost of what Kossuth
calls the solidarity of the human race,--what Paul alludes to, when he says, if one member
suffer, all the members suffer with it. I recall with grateful tears the sympathy of my neighbors
on the right hand and on the left,--expressed not only by words, but by deeds. In my mind's
eye, Horatio, I see again the baskets of apples, and pears, and tomatoes, and strawberries,--squashes
too heavy to lift,--and corn sweet as the dews of Hymettus, that bore daily witness of human
brotherhood. I remember, too, the victory which I gained over my own depraved nature. I saw
my neighbor prosper in everything he undertook. Nihil tetigit quod non crevit. Fertility found
in his soil its congenial home, and spanned it with rainbow hues. Every day I walked by his
garden and saw it putting on its strength, its beautiful garments. I had not even the small
satisfaction of reflecting that amid all his splendid success his life was cold and cheerless,
while mine, amid all its failures, was full of warmth,--a reflection which, I have often observed,
seems to go a great way towards making a person contented with his lot,--for he had a lovely
wife, promising children, and the whole village for his friends. Yet, notwithstanding all these
obstacles, I learned to look over his garden-wall with sincere joy.

There is one provocation, however, which I cannot yet bear with equanimity, and which I do
not believe I shall ever meet without at least a spasm of wrath, even if my Christian character
shall ever become strong enough to preclude absolute tetanus; and I do hereby beseech all persons
who would not be guilty of the sin of Jeroboam who made Israel to sin, who do not wish to have
on their hands the burden of my ruined temper, to let me go quietly down into the valley of
humiliation and oblivion, and not pester me, as they have hitherto done from all parts of the
North-American continent, with the infuriating question, "How did you get on with your garden?"

       *       *       *       *       *

LYRICS OF THE STREET.

I.

THE TELEGRAMS.

  Bring the hearse to the station,
    When one shall demand it, late;
  For that dark consummation
    The traveller must not wait.
  Men say not by what connivance
    He slid from his weight of woe,
  Whether sickness or weak contrivance,
    But we know him glad to go.
            On, and on, and ever on!
                     What next?

  Nor let the priest be wanting
    With his hollow eyes of prayer,
  While the sexton wrenches, panting,
    The stone from the dismal stair.
  But call not the friends who left him,
    When Fortune and Pleasure fled;
  Mortality hath not bereft him,
    That they should confront him, dead.
            On, and on, and ever on!
                     What next?

  Bid my mother be ready:
    We are coming home to-night:
  Let my chamber be still and shady,
    With the softened nuptial light.
  We have travelled so gayly, madly,
    No shadow hath crossed our way;
  Yet we come back like children, gladly,
    Joy-spent with our holiday.
             On, and on, and ever on!
                      What next?

  Stop the train at the landing,
    And search every carriage through;
  Let no one escape your handing,
    None shiver or shrink from view.
  Three blood-stained guests expect him,
    Three murders oppress his soul;
  Be strained every nerve to detect him
    Who feasted, and killed, and stole.
              On, and on, and ever on!
                       What next?

  Be rid of the notes they scattered;
    The great house is down at last;
  The image of gold is shattered,
    And never can be recast.
  The bankrupts show leaden features,
    And weary, distracted looks,
  While harpy-eyed, wolf-souled creatures
    Pry through their dishonored books.
              On, and on, and ever on!
                       What next?

  Let him hasten, lest worse befall him,
    To look on me, ere I die:
  I will whisper one curse to appall him,
    Ere the black flood carry me by.
  His bridal? the friends forbid it;
    I have shown them his proofs of guilt:
  Let him hear, with my laugh, who did it;
    Then hurry, Death, as thou wilt!
              On, and on, and ever on!
                       What next?

  Thus the living and dying daily
    Flash forward their wants and words,
  While still on Thought's slender railway
    Sit scathless the little birds:
  They heed not the sentence dire
    By magical hands exprest,
  And only the sun's warm fire
    Stirs softly their happy breast.
              On, and on, and ever on!
                       God next!

THE SOUTH BREAKER.

IN TWO PARTS.

PART I.

Just a cap-full of wind, and Dan shook loose the linen, and a straight shining streak with
specks of foam shot after us. The mast bent like eel-grass, and our keel was half out of the
water. Faith belied her name, and clung to the sides with her ten finger-nails; but as for
me, I liked it.

"Take the stick, Georgie," said Dan, suddenly, his cheeks white. "Head her up the wind. Steady.
Sight the figurehead on Pearson's loft. Here's too much sail for a frigate."

But before the words were well uttered, the mast doubled up and coiled like a whip-lash, there
was a report like the crack of doom, and half of the thing crashed short over the bows, dragging
the heavy sail in the waves.

Then there came a great laugh of thunder close above, and the black cloud dropped like a curtain
round us: the squall had broken.

"Cut it off, Dan! quick!" I cried. "Let it alone," said he, snapping together his jack-knife;
"it's as good as a best bower-anchor. Now I'll take the tiller, Georgie. Strong little hand,"
said he, bending so that I didn't see his face. "And lucky it's good as strong. It's saved
us all.--My God, Georgie! where's Faith?"

I turned. There was no Faith in the boat. We both sprang to our feet, and so the tiller swung
round and threw us broadside to the wind, and between the dragging mast and the centre-board
drowning seemed too good for us.

"You'll have to cut it off," I cried again; but he had already ripped half through the canvas
and was casting it loose.

At length he gave his arm a toss. With the next moment, I never shall forget the look of horror
that froze Dan's face.

"I've thrown her off!" he exclaimed. "I've thrown her off!"

He reached his whole length over the boat, I ran to his side, and perhaps our motion impelled
it, or perhaps some unseen hand; for he caught at an end of rope, drew it in a second, let
go and clutched at a handful of the sail, and then I saw how it had twisted round and swept
poor little Faith over, and she had swung there in it like a dead butterfly in a chrysalis.
The lightnings were slipping down into the water like blades of fire everywhere around us,
with short, sharp volleys of thunder, and the waves were more than I ever rode this side of
the bar before or since, and we took in water every time our hearts beat; but we never once
thought of our own danger while we bent to pull dear little Faith out of hers; and that done,
Dan broke into a great hearty fit of crying that I'm sure he'd no need to be ashamed of. But
it didn't last long; he just up and dashed off the tears and set himself at work again, while
I was down on the floor rubbing Faith. There she lay like a broken lily, with no life in her
little white face, and no breath, and maybe a pulse and maybe not. I couldn't hear a word Dan
said, for the wind; and the rain was pouring through us. I saw him take out the oars, but I
knew they'd do no good in such a chop, even if they didn't break; and pretty soon he found
it so, for he drew them in and began to untie the anchor-rope and wind it round his waist.
I sprang to him.

"What are you doing, Dan?" I exclaimed.

"I can swim, at least," he answered.

"And tow us?--a mile? You know you can't! It's madness!"

"I must try. Little Faith will die, if we don't get ashore."

"She's dead now, Dan."

"What! No, no, she isn't. Faith isn't dead. But we must get ashore."

"Dan," I cried, clinging to his arm, "Faith's only one. But if you die so,--and you will!--I
shall die too."

"You?"

"Yes; because, if it hadn't been for me, you wouldn't have been here at all."

"And is that all the reason?" he asked, still at work.

"Reason enough," said I.

"Not quite," said he.

"Dan,--for my sake"----

"I can't, Georgie. Don't ask me. I mustn't"--and here he stopped short, with the coil of rope
in his hand, and fixed me with his eye, and his look was terrible--"we mustn't let Faith die."

"Well," I said, "try it, if you dare,--and as true as there's a Lord in heaven, I'll cut the rope!"

He hesitated, for he saw I was resolute; and I would, I declare I would have done it; for,
do you know, at the moment I hated the little dead thing in the bottom of the boat there.

Just then there came a streak of sunshine through the gloom where we'd been plunging between
wind and water, and then a patch of blue sky, and the great cloud went blowing down river.
Dan threw away the rope and took out the oars again.

"Give me one, Dan," said I; but he shook his head. "Oh, Dan, because I'm so sorry!"

"See to her, then,--fetch Faith to," he replied, not looking at me, and making up with great
sturdy pulls.

So I busied myself, though I couldn't do a bit of good. The instant we touched bottom, Dan
snatched her, sprang through the water and up the landing. I stayed behind; as the boat recoiled,
pushed in a little, fastened the anchor and threw it over, and then followed.

Our house was next the landing, and there Dan had carried Faith; and when I reached it, a great
fire was roaring up the chimney, and the tea-kettle hung over it, and he was rubbing Faith's
feet hard enough to strike sparks. I couldn't understand exactly what made Dan so fiercely
earnest, for I thought I knew just how he felt about Faith; but suddenly, when nothing seemed
to answer, and he stood up and our eyes met, I saw such a haggard, conscience-stricken face
that it all rushed over me. But now we had done what we could, and then I felt all at once
as if every moment that I effected nothing was drawing out murder. Something flashed by the
window, I tore out of the house and threw up my arms, I don't know whether I screamed or not,
but I caught the doctor's eye, and he jumped from his gig and followed me in. We had a siege
of it. But at length, with hot blankets, and hot water, and hot brandy dribbled down her throat,
a little pulse began to play upon Faith's temple and a little pink to beat up and down her
cheek, and she opened her pretty dark eyes and lifted herself and wrung the water out of her
braids; then she sank back.

"Faith! Faith! speak to me!" said Dan, close in her ear. "Don't you know me?"

"Go away," she said, hoarsely, pushing his face with her flat wet palm. "You let the sail take
me over and drown me, while you kissed Georgie's hand."

I flung my hand before her eyes.

"Is there a kiss on those fingers?" I cried, in a blaze. "He never kissed my hands or my lips.
Dan is your husband, Faith!"

For all answer Faith hid her head and gave a little moan. Somehow I couldn't stand that; so
I ran and put my arms round her neck and lifted her face and kissed it, and then we cried together.
And Dan, walking the floor, took up his hat and went out, while she never cast a look after
him. To think of such a great strong nature and such a powerful depth of feeling being wasted
on such a little limp rag! I cried as much for that as anything. Then I helped Faith into my
bedroom, and running home, I got her some dry clothes,--after rummaging enough, dear knows!
for you'd be more like to find her nightcap in the tea-caddy than elsewhere,--and I made her
a corner on the settle, for she was afraid to stay in the bedroom, and when she was comfortably
covered there she fell asleep. Dan came in soon and sat down beside her, his eyes on the floor,
never glancing aside nor smiling, but gloomier than the grave. As for me, I felt at ease now,
so I went and laid my hand on the back of his chair and made him look up. I wanted he should
know the same rest that I had, and perhaps he did,--for, still looking up, the quiet smile
came floating round his lips, and his eyes grew steady and sweet as they used to be before
he married Faith. Then I went bustling lightly about the kitchen again.

"Dan," I said, "if you'd just bring me in a couple of those chickens stalking out there like
two gentlemen from Spain."

While he was gone I flew round and got a cake into the bake-kettle, and a pan of biscuit down
before the fire; and I set the tea to steep on the coals, because father always likes his tea
strong enough to bear up an egg, after a hard day's work, and he'd had that to-day; and I put
on the coffee to boil, for I knew Dan never had it at home, because Faith liked it and it didn't
agree with her. And then he brought me in the chickens all ready for the pot, and so at last
I sat down, but at the opposite side of the chimney. Then he rose, and, without exactly touching
me, swept me back to the other side, where lay the great net I was making for father; and I
took the little stool by the settle, and not far from him, and went to work.

"Georgie," said Dan, at length, after he'd watched me a considerable time, "if any word I may
have said to-day disturbed you a moment, I want you to know that it hurt me first, and just
as much."

"Yes, Dan," said I.

I've always thought there was something real noble between Dan and me then. There was I,--well,
I don't mind telling you. And he,--yes, I'm sure he loved me perfectly,--you mustn't be startled,
I'll tell you how it was,--and always had, only maybe he hadn't known it; but it was deep down
in his heart just the same, and by-and-by it stirred. There we were, both of us thoroughly
conscious, yet neither of us expressing it by a word, and trying not to by a look,--both of
us content to wait for the next life, when we could belong to one another. In those days I
contrived to have it always pleasure enough for me just to know that Dan was in the room; and
though that wasn't often, I never grudged Faith her right in him, perhaps because I knew she
didn't care anything about it. You see, this is how it was.

When Dan was a lad of sixteen, and took care of his mother, a ship went to pieces down there
on the island. It was one of the worst storms that ever whistled, and though crowds were on
the shore, it was impossible to reach her. They could see the poor wretches hanging in the
rigging, and dropping one by one, and they could only stay and sicken, for the surf stove the
boats, and they didn't know then how to send out ropes on rockets or on cannon-balls, and so
the night fell, and the people wrung their hands and left the sea to its prey, and felt as
if blue sky could never come again. And with the bright, keen morning not a vestige of the
ship, but here a spar and there a door, and on the side of a sand-hill a great dog watching
over a little child that he'd kept warm all night. Dan, he'd got up at turn of tide, and walked
down,--the sea running over the road knee-deep,--for there was too much swell for boats; and
when day broke, he found the little girl, and carried her up to town. He didn't take her home,
for he saw that what clothes she had were the very finest,--made as delicately,--with seams
like the hair-strokes on that heart's-ease there; and he concluded that he couldn't bring her
up as she ought to be. So he took her round to the rich men, and represented that she was the
child of a lady, and that a poor fellow like himself--for Dan was older than his years, you
see--couldn't do her justice: she was a slight little thing, and needed dainty training and
fancy food, maybe a matter of seven years old, and she spoke some foreign language, and perhaps
she didn't speak it plain, for nobody knew what it was. However, everybody was very much interested,
and everybody was willing to give and to help, but nobody wanted to take her, and the upshot
of it was that Dan refused all their offers and took her himself.

His mother'd been in to our house all the afternoon before, and she'd kept taking her pipe
out of her mouth,--she had the asthma, and smoked,--and kept sighing.

"This storm's going to bring me something," says she, in a mighty miserable tone. "I'm sure of it!"

"No harm, I hope, Miss Devereux," said mother.

"Well, Rhody,"--mother's father, he was a queer kind,--called his girls all after the thirteen
States, and there being none left for Uncle Mat, he called him after the state of matrimony,--"Well,
Rhody," she replied, rather dismally, and knocking the ashes out of the bowl, "I don't know;
but I'll have faith to believe that the Lord won't send me no ill without distincter warning.
And that it's good I have faith to believe."

And so when the child appeared, and had no name, and couldn't answer for herself, Mrs. Devereux
called her Faith.

We're a people of presentiments down here on the Flats, and well we may be. You'd own up yourself,
maybe, if in the dark of the night, you locked in sleep, there's a knock on the door enough
to wake the dead, and you start up and listen and nothing follows; and falling back, you're
just dozing off, and there it is once more, so that the lad in the next room cries out, "Who's
that, mother?" No one answering, you're half lost again, when rap comes the hand again, the
loudest of the three, and you spring to the door and open it, and there's nought there but
a wind from the graves blowing in your face; and after a while you learn that in that hour
of that same night your husband was lost at sea. Well, that happened to Mrs. Devereux. And
I haven't time to tell you the warnings I've known of. As for Faith, I mind that she said herself,
as we were in the boat for that clear midnight sail, that the sea had a spite against her,
but third time was trying time.

So Faith grew up, and Dan sent her to school what he could, for he set store by her. She was
always ailing,--a little, wilful, pettish thing, but pretty as a flower; and folks put things
into her head, and she began to think she was some great shakes; and she may have been a matter
of seventeen years old when Mrs. Devereux died. Dan, as simple at twenty-six as he had been
ten years before, thought to go on just in the old way, but the neighbors were one too many
for him; and they all represented that it would never do, and so on, till the poor fellow got
perplexed and vexed and half beside himself. There wasn't the first thing she could do for
herself, and he couldn't afford to board her out, for Dan was only a laboring-man, mackerelling
all summer and shoemaking all winter, less the dreadful times when he stayed out on the Georges;
and then he couldn't afford, either, to keep her there and ruin the poor girl's reputation;--and
what did Dan do but come to me with it all?

Now for a number of years I'd been up in the other part of the town with Aunt Netty, who kept
a shop that I tended between schools and before and after, and I'd almost forgotten there was
such a soul on earth as Dan Devereux,--though he'd not forgotten me. I'd got through the Grammar
and had a year in the High, and suppose I should have finished with an education and gone off
teaching somewhere, instead of being here now, cheerful as heart could wish, with a little
black-haired hussy tiltering on the back of my chair.--Rolly, get down! Her name's Laura,--for
his mother.--I mean I might have done all this, if at that time mother hadn't been thrown on
her back, and been bedridden ever since. I haven't said much about mother yet, but there all
the time she was, just as she is to-day, in her little tidy bed in one corner of the great
kitchen, sweet as a saint, and as patient; and I had to come and keep house for father. He
never meant that I should lose by it, father didn't; begged, borrowed, or stolen, bought or
hired, I should have my books, he said: he's mighty proud of my learning, though between you
and me it's little enough to be proud of; but the neighbors think I know 'most as much as the
minister,--and I let 'em think. Well, while Mrs. Devereux was sick I was over there a good
deal,--for if Faith had one talent, it was total incapacity,--and there had a chance of knowing
the stuff that Dan was made of; and I declare to man 'twould have touched a heart of stone
to see the love between the two. She thought Dan held up the sky, and Dan thought she was the
sky. It's no wonder,--the risks our men lead can't make common-sized women out of their wives
and mothers. But I hadn't been coming in and out, busying about where Dan was, all that time,
without making any mark; though he was so lost in grief about his mother that he didn't take
notice of his other feelings, or think of himself at all. And who could care the less about
him for that? It always brings down a woman to see a man wrapt in some sorrow that's lawful,
and tender as it is large. And when he came and told me what the neighbors said he must do
with Faith, the blood stood still in my heart.

"Ask mother, Dan," says I,--for I couldn't have advised him. "She knows best about everything."

So he asked her.

"I think--I'm sorry to think, for I fear she'll not make you a good wife," said mother, "but
that perhaps her love for you will teach her to be--you'd best marry Faith."

"But I can't marry her!" said Dan, half choking; "I don't want to marry her,--it--it makes
me uncomfortable-like to think of such a thing. I care for the child plenty----Besides," said
Dan, catching at a bright hope, "I'm not sure that she'd have me."

"Have you, poor boy! What else can she do?"

Dan groaned.

"Poor little Faith!" said mother. "She's so pretty, Dan, and she's so young, and she's pliant.
And then how can we tell what may turn up about her some day? She may be a duke's daughter
yet,--who knows? Think of the stroke of good-fortune she may give you!"

"But I don't love her," said Dan, as a finality.

"Perhaps----It isn't----You don't love any one else?"

"No," said Dan, as a matter of course, and not at all with reflection. And then, as his eyes
went wandering, there came over them a misty look, just as the haze creeps between you and
some object away out at sea, and he seemed to be searching his very soul. Suddenly the look
swept off them, and his eyes struck mine, and he turned, not having meant to, and faced me
entirely, and there came such a light into his countenance, such a smile round his lips, such
a red stamped his cheek, and he bent a little,--and it was just as if the angel of the Lord
had shaken his wings over us in passing, and we both of us knew that here was a man and here
was a woman, each for the other, in life and death; and I just hid my head in my apron, and
mother turned on her pillow with a little moan.

And nobody spoke.

"Thou art my Father, my God, and the rock of my salvation. Thou wilt light my candle: the Lord
my God will enlighten my darkness. For with thee is the fountain of life: in thy light shall
we see light."

Then came the hush again, and Dan started to his feet, and began to walk up and down the room
as if something drove him; but wearying, he stood and leaned his head on the chimney there.
And mother's voice broke the stillness anew, and she said,--

"Hath God forgotten to be gracious? His mercy endureth forever. And none of them that trust
in him shall be desolate."

There was something in mother's tone that made me forget myself and my sorrow, and look; and
there she was, as she hadn't been before for six months, half risen from the bed, one hand
up, and her whole face white and shining with confident faith. Well, when I see all that such
trust has buoyed mother over, I wish to goodness I had it: I take more after Martha. But never
mind, do well here and you'll do well there, say I. Perhaps you think it wasn't much, the quiet
and the few texts breathed through it; but sometimes when one's soul's at a white heat, it
may be moulded like wax with a finger. As for me, maybe God hardened Pharaoh's heart,--though
how that was Pharaoh's fault I never could see. But Dan,--he felt what it was to have a refuge
in trouble, to have a great love always extending over him like a wing; he longed for it; he
couldn't believe it was his now, he was so suddenly convicted of all sin and wickedness; and
something sprang up in his heart, a kind of holy passion that he felt to be possible for this
great and tender Divine Being; and he came and fell on his knees by the side of the bed, crying
out for mother to show him the way; and mother, she put her hand on his head and prayed,--prayed,
oh, so beautifully, that it makes the water stand in my eyes now to remember what she said.
But I didn't feel so then, my heart and my soul were rebellious, and love for Dan alone kept
me under, not love for God. And in fact, if ever I'd got to heaven then, love for Dan'd have
been my only saving grace; for I was mighty high-spirited, as a girl. Well, Dan he never made
open profession; but when he left the house, he went and asked Faith to marry him.

Now Faith didn't care anything about Dan,--except the quiet attachment that she couldn't help,
from living in the house with him, and he'd always petted and made much of her, and dressed
her like a doll,--he wasn't the kind of man to take her fancy: she'd have maybe liked some
slender, smooth-faced chap; but Dan was a black, shaggy fellow, with shoulders like the cross-tree,
and a length of limb like Saul's, and eyes set deep, like lamps in caverns. And he had a great,
powerful heart,--and, oh, how it was lost! for she might have won it, she might have made him
love her, since I would have stood wide away and aside for the sake of seeing him happy. But
Faith was one of those that, if they can't get what they want, haven't any idea of putting
up with what they have,--God forgive me, if I'm hard on the child! And she couldn't give Dan
an answer right off, but was loath to think of it, and went flirting about among the other
boys; and Dan, when he saw she wasn't so easily gotten, perhaps set more value on her. For
Faith, she grew prettier every day; her great brown eyes were so soft and clear, and had a
wide, sorrowful way of looking at you; and her cheeks, that were usually pale, blossomed to
roses when you spoke to her, her hair drooping over them dark and silky; and though she was
slack and untidy and at loose ends about her dress, she somehow always seemed like a princess
in disguise; and when she had on any thing new,--a sprigged calico, and her little straw bonnet
with the pink ribbons, and Mrs. Devereux's black scarf, for instance,--you'd have allowed that
she might have been daughter to the Queen of Sheba. I don't know, but I rather think Dan wouldn't
have said any more to Faith, from various motives, you see, notwithstanding the neighbors were
still remonstrating with him, if it hadn't been that Miss Brown--she that lived round the corner
there; the town's well quit of her now, poor thing!--went to saying the same stuff to Faith,
and telling her all that other folks said. And Faith went home in a passion,--some of your
timid kind nothing ever abashes, and nobody gets to the windward of them,--and, being perfectly
furious, fell to accusing Dan of having brought her to this, so that Dan actually believed
he had, and was cut to the quick with contrition, and told her that all the reparation he could
make he was waiting and wishing to make, and then there came floods of tears. Some women seem
to have set out with the idea that life's a desert for them to cross, and they've laid in a
supply of water-bags accordingly,--but it's the meanest weapon! And then again, there's men
that are iron, and not to be bent under calamities, that these tears can twist round your little
finger. Well, I suppose Faith concluded 'twas no use to go hungry because her bread wasn't
buttered on both sides, but she always acted as if she'd condescended ninety degrees in marrying
Dan, and Dan always seemed to feel that he'd done her a great injury; and there it was.

I kept in the house for a time; mother was worse.--and I thought the less Dan saw of me the
better; I kind of hoped he'd forget, and find his happiness where it ought to be. But the first
time I saw him, when Faith had been his wife all the spring, there was the look in his eyes
that told of the ache in his heart. Faith wasn't very happy herself, of course, though she
was careless; and she gave him trouble,--keeping company with the young men just as before;
and she got into a way of flying straight to me, if Dan ventured to reprove her ever so lightly;
and stormy nights, when he was gone, and in his long trips, she always locked up her doors
and came over and got into my bed; and she was one of those that never listened to reason,
and it was none so easy for me, you may suppose.

Things had gone on now for some three years, and I'd about lived in my books,--I'd tried to
teach Faith some, but she wouldn't go any farther than newspaper stories,--when one day Dan
took her and me to sail, and we were to have had a clam-chowder on the Point, if the squall
hadn't come. As it was, we'd got to put up with chicken-broth, and it couldn't have been better,
considering who made it. It was getting on toward the cool of the May evening, the sunset was
round on the other side of the house, but all the east looked as if the sky had been stirred
up with currant-juice, till it grew purple and dark, and then the two light-houses flared out
and showed us the lip of froth lapping the shadowy shore beyond, and I--heard father's voice,
and he came in.

There was nothing but the fire-light in the room, and it threw about great shadows, so that
at first entering all was indistinct; but I heard a foot behind father's, and then a form appeared,
and something, I never could tell what, made a great shiver rush down my back, just as when
a creature is frightened in the dark at what you don't see, and so, though my soul was unconscious,
my body felt that there was danger in the air. Dan had risen and lighted the lamp that swings
in the chimney, and father first of all had gone up and kissed mother, and left the stranger
standing; then he turned round, saying,--

"A tough day,--it's been a tough day; and here's some un to prove it. Georgie, hope that pot's
steam don't belie it, for Mr. Gabriel Verelay and I want a good supper and a good bed."

At this, the stranger, still standing, bowed.

"Here's the one, father," said I. "But about the bed,--Faith'll have to stay here,--and I don't
see--unless Dan takes him over"----

"That I'll do," said Dan.

"All right," said the stranger, in a voice that you didn't seem to notice while he was speaking,
but that you remembered afterwards like the ring of any silver thing that has been thrown down;
and he dropped his hat on the floor and drew near the fireplace, warming hands that were slender
and brown, but shapely as a woman's. I was taking up the supper; so I only gave him a glance
or two, and saw him standing there, his left hand extended to the blaze, and his eye resting
lightly and then earnestly on Faith in her pretty sleep, and turning away much as one turns
from a picture. At length I came to ask him to sit by, and at that moment Faith's eyes opened.

Faith always woke up just as a baby does, wide and bewildered, and the fire had flushed her
cheeks, and her hair was disordered, and she fixed her gaze on him as if he had stepped out
of her dream, her lips half parted and then curling in a smile,--but in a second he moved off
with me, and Faith slipped down and into the little bedroom.

Well, we didn't waste many words until father'd lost the edge of his appetite, and then I told
about Faith.

"'F that don't beat the Dutch!" said father. "Here's Mr.--Mr."------

"Gabriel," said the stranger.

"Yes,--Mr. Gabriel Verelay been served the same trick by the same squall, only worse and more
of it,--knocked off the yacht--What's that you call her?"

"La belle Louise."

"And left for drowned,--if they see him go at all. But he couldn't 'a' sinked in that sea,
if he'd tried. He kep' afloat; we blundered into him; and here he is."

Dan and I looked round In considerable surprise, for he was dry as an August leaf.

"Oh," said the stranger, coloring, and with the least little turn of his words, as if he didn't
always speak English, "the good captain reached shore, and, finding sticks, he kindled a fire,
and we did dry our clothes until it made fine weather once more."

"Yes," said father; "but 't wouldn't been quite such fine weather, I reckon, if this 'd gone
to the fishes!" And he pushed something across the table.

It was a pouch with steel snaps, and well stuffed. The stranger colored again, and held his
hand for it, and the snap burst, and great gold pieces, English coin and very old French ones,
rolled about the table, and father shut his eyes tight; and just then Faith came back and slipped
into her chair. I saw her eyes sparkle as we all reached, laughing and joking, to gather them;
and Mr. Gabriel--we got into the way of calling him so,--he liked it best--hurried to get them
out of sight as if he'd committed some act of ostentation. And then, to make amends, he threw
off what constraint he had worn in this new atmosphere of ours, and was so gay, so full of
questions and quips and conceits, all spoken in his strange way, his voice was so sweet, and
he laughed so much and so like a boy, and his words had so much point and brightness, that
I could think of nothing but the showers of colored stars in fireworks. Dan felt it like a
play, sat quiet, but enjoying, and I saw he liked it;--the fellow had a way of attaching every
one. Father was uproarious, and kept calling out, "Mother, do you hear?--d' you hear that,
mother?" And Faith, she was near, taking it all in as a flower does sunshine, only smiling
a little, and looking utterly happy. Then I hurried to clear up, and Faith sat in the great
arm-chair, and father got out the pipes, and you could hardly see across the room for the wide
tobacco-wreaths; and then it was father's turn, and he told story after story of the hardships
and the dangers and the charms of our way of living. And I could see Mr. Gabriel's cheek blanch,
and he would bend forward, forgetting to smoke, and his breath coming short, and then right
himself like a boat after lurching,--he had such natural ways, and except that he'd maybe been
a spoiled child, he would have had a good heart, as hearts go. And nothing would do at last
but he must stay and live the same scenes for a little; and father told him 't wouldn't pay;--they
weren't so much to go through with as to tell of,--there was too much prose in the daily life,
and too much dirt, and 't wa'n't fit for gentlemen. Oh, he said, he'd been used to roughing
it,--woodsing, camping and gunning and yachting, ever since he'd been a free man. He was Canadian,
and had been cruising from the St. Lawrence to Florida, --and now, as his companions would
go on without him, he had a mind to try a bit of coast-life. And could he board here? or was
there any handy place? And father said, there was Dan,--Dan Devereux, a man that hadn't his
match at oar or helm. And Mr. Gabriel turned his keen eye and bowed again,--and couldn't Dan
take Mr. Gabriel? And before Dan could answer, for he'd referred it to Faith, Mr. Gabriel had
forgotten all about it, and was humming a little French song and stirring the coals with the
tongs. And that put father off in a fresh remembrance; and as the hours lengthened, the stories
grew fearful, and he told them deep into the midnight, till at last Mr. Gabriel stood up.

"No more, good friend," said he. "But I will have a taste of this life perilous. And now where
is it that I go?"

Dan also stood up.

"My little woman," said he, glancing at Faith, "thinks there's a corner for you, Sir."

"I beg your pardon"--And Mr. Gabriel paused, with a shadow skimming over his clear dark face.

Dan wondered what he was begging pardon for, but thought perhaps he hadn't heard him, so he
repeated,--

"My wife"--nodding over his shoulder at Faith, "she's my wife--thinks there's a"----

"She's your wife?" said Mr. Gabriel, his eyes opening and brightening the way an aurora runs
up the sky, and looking first at one and then at the other, as if he couldn't understand how
so delicate a flower grew on so thorny a stem.

The red flushed up Dan's face,--and up mine too, for the matter of that,--but in a minute the
stranger had dropped his glance.

"And why did you not tell me," he said, "that I might have found her less beautiful?"

Then he raised his shoulders, gave her a saucy bow, with his hand on Dan's arm,--Dan, who was
now too well pleased at having Faith made happy by a compliment to sift it,--and they went out.

But I was angry enough; and you may imagine I wasn't much soothed by seeing Faith, who'd been
so die-away all the evening, sitting up before my scrap of looking-glass, trying in my old
coral earrings, bowing up my ribbons, and plaiting and prinking till the clock frightened her
into bed.

The next morning, mother, who wasn't used to such disturbance, was ill, and I was kept pretty
busy tending on her for two or three days. Faith had insisted on going home the first thing
after breakfast, and in that time I heard no more of anybody,--for father was out with the
night-tides, and, except to ask how mother did, and if I'd seen the stray from the Lobblelyese
again, was too tired for talking when he came back. That had been--let me see--on a Monday,
I think,--yes, on a Monday; and Thursday evening, as in-doors had begun to tell on me, and
mother was so much improved, I thought I'd run out for a walk along the seawall. The sunset
was creeping round everything, and lying in great sheets on the broad, still river, the children
were frolicking in the water, and all was so gay, and the air was so sweet, that I went lingering
along farther than I'd meant, and by-and-by who should I see but a couple sauntering toward
me at my own gait, and one of them was Faith. She had on a muslin with little roses blushing
all over it, and she floated along in it as if she were in a pink cloud, and she'd snatched
a vine of the tender young woodbine as she went, and, throwing it round her shoulders, held
the two ends in one hand like a ribbon, while with the other she swung her white sun-bonnet.
She laughed, and shook her head at me, and there, large as life, under the dark braids dangled
my coral ear-rings, that she'd adopted without leave or license. She'd been down to the lower
landing to meet Dan,--a thing she'd done before I don't know when,--and was walking up with
Mr. Gabriel while Dan stayed behind to see to things. I kept them talking, and Mr. Gabriel
was sparkling with fun, for he'd got to feeling acquainted, and it had put him in high spirits
to get ashore at this hour, though he liked the sea, and we were all laughing, when Dan came
up. Now I must confess I hadn't fancied Mr. Gabriel over and above; I suppose my first impression
had hardened into a prejudice; and after I'd fathomed the meaning of Faith's fine feathers
I liked him less than ever. But when Dan came up, he joined right in, gay and hearty, and liking
his new acquaintance so much, that, thinks I, he must know best, and I'll let him look out
for his interests himself. It would 'a' been no use, though, for Dan to pretend to beat the
Frenchman at his own weapons,--and I don't know that I should have cared to have him. The older
I grow, the less I think of your mere intellect; throw learning out of the scales, and give
me a great, warm heart,--like Dan's.

Well, it was getting on in the evening, when the latch lifted, and in ran Faith. She twisted
my ear-rings out of her hair, exclaiming,--

"Oh, Georgie, are you busy? Can't you perse my ears now?"

"Pierce them yourself, Faith."

"Well, pierce, then. But I can't,--you know I can't. Won't you now, Georgie?" and she tossed
the ear-rings into my lap.

"Why, Faith," said I, "how'd you contrive to wear these, if your ears aren't"--

"Oh, I tied them on. Come now, Georgie!"

So I got the ball of yarn and the darning-needle.

"Oh, not such a big one!" cried she.

"Perhaps you'd like a cambric needle," said I.

"I don't want a winch," she pouted.

"Well, here's a smaller one. Now kneel down."

"Yes, but you wait a moment, till I screw up my courage."

"No need. You can talk, and I'll take you at unawares."

So Faith knelt down, and I got all ready.

"And what shall I talk about?" said she. "About Aunt Rhody, or Mr. Gabriel, or--I'll tell you
the queerest thing, Georgie! Going to now?"

"Do be quiet, Faith, and not keep your head flirting about so!"--for she'd started up to speak.
Then she composed herself once more.

"What was I saying? Oh, about that. Yes, Georgie, the queerest thing! You see, this evening,
when Dan was out, I was sitting talkin' with Mr. Gabriel, and he was wondering how I came to
be dropped down here, so I told him all about it. And he was so interested that I went and
showed him the things I had on when Dan found me,--you know they've been kept real nice. And
he took them, and looked them over, close, admiring them, and--and--admiring me,--and finally
he started, and then held the frock to the light, and then lifted a little plait, and in the
under side of the belt-lining there was a name very finely wrought,--Virginie des Violets;
and he looked at all the others, and in some hidden corner of every one was the initials of
the same name,--V. des V.

"'That should be your name, Mrs. Devereux,' says he.

"'Oh, no!' says I. 'My name's Faith.'

"Well, and on that he asked, was there no more; and so I took off the little chain that I've
always worn and showed him that, and he asked if there was a face in it, in what we thought
was a coin, you know; and I said, oh, it didn't open; and he turned it over and over, and finally
something snapped, and there was a face,--here, you shall see it, Georgie."

And Faith drew it from her bosom, and opened and held it before me; for I'd sat with my needle
poised, and forgetting to strike. And there was the face indeed, a sad, serious face, dark
and sweet, yet the image of Faith, and with the same mouth,--that so lovely in a woman becomes
weak in a man,--and on the other side there were a few threads of hair, with the same darkness
and fineness as Faith's hair, and under them a little picture chased in the gold and enamelled,
which, from what I've read since, I suppose must have been the crest of the Des Violets.

"And what did Mr. Gabriel say then?" I asked, giving it back to Faith, who put her head into
the old position again.

"Oh, he acted real queer. 'The very man!' he cried out. 'The man himself! His portrait,--I
have seen it a hundred times!' And then he told me that about a dozen years ago or more, a
ship sailed from--from--I forget the place exactly, somewhere up there where he came from,--Mr.
Gabriel, I mean,--and among the passengers was this man and his wife, and his little daughter,
whose name was Virginie des Violets, and the ship was never heard from again. But he says that
without a doubt I'm the little daughter and my name is Virginie, though I suppose every one'll
call me Faith. Oh, and that isn't the queerest. The queerest is, this gentleman," and Faith
lifted her head, "was very rich. I can't tell you how much he owned. Lands that you can walk
on a whole day and not come to the end, and ships, and gold. And the whole of it's lying idle
and waiting for an heir,--and I, Georgie, am the heir."

And Faith told it with cheeks burning and eyes shining, but yet quite as if she'd been born
and brought up in the knowledge.

"It don't seem to move you much, Faith," said I, perfectly amazed, although I'd frequently
expected something of the kind.

"Well, I may never get it, and so on. If I do, I'll give you a silk dress and set you up in
a book-store. But here's a queerer thing yet. Des Violets is the way Mr. Gabriel's own name
is spelt, and his father and mine--his mother and--Well, some way or other we're sort of cousins.
Only think, Georgie! isn't that--I thought, to be sure, when he quartered at our house, Dan'd
begin to take me to do, if I looked at him sideways,--make the same fuss that he does, if I
nod to any of the other young men."

"I don't think Dan speaks before he should, Faith."

"Why don't you say Virginie?" says she, laughing.

"Because Faith you've always been, and Faith you'll have to remain, with us, to the end of
the chapter."

"Well, that's as it may be. But Dan can't object now to my going where I'm a mind to with my
own cousin!" And here Faith laid her ear on the ball of yarn again.

"Hasten, headsman!" said she, out of a novel, "or they'll wonder where I am."

"Well," I answered, "just let me run the needle through the emery."

"Yes, Georgie," said Faith, going back with her memories while I sharpened my steel, "Mr. Gabriel
and I are kin. And he said that the moment he laid eyes on me he knew I was of different blood
from the rest of the people"--.

"What people?" asked I.

"Why, you, and Dan, and all these. And he said he was struck to stone when he heard I was married
to Dan,--I must have been entrapped,--the courts would annul it,--any one could see the difference
between us"--

Here was my moment, and I didn't spare it, but jabbed the needle into the ball of yarn, if
her ear did lie between them.

"Yes!" says I, "anybody with half an eye can see the difference between you, and that's a fact!
Nobody'd ever imagine for a breath that you were deserving of Dan,--Dan, who's so noble he'd
die for what he thought was right,--you, who are so selfish and idle and fickle and"--

And at that Faith burst out crying.

"Oh, I never expected you'd talk about me so, Georgie!" said she between her sobs. "How could
I tell you were such a mighty friend of Dan's? And besides, if ever I was Virginie des Violets,
I'm Faith Devereux now, and Dan'll resent any one's speaking so about his wife!"

And she stood up, the tears sparkling like diamonds in her flashing dark eyes, her cheeks red,
and her little fist clenched.

"That's the right spirit, Faith," says I, "and I'm glad to see you show it. And as for this
young Canadian, the best thing to do with him is to send him packing. I don't believe a word
he says; it's more than likely nothing but to get into your good graces."

"But there's the names," said she, so astonished that she didn't remember she was angry.

"Happened so."

"Oh, yes! 'Happened so' A likely story! It's nothing but your envy, and that's all!"

"Faith!" says I, for I forgot she didn't know how close she struck.

"Well,--I mean----There, don't let's talk about it any more! How under the sun am I going to
get these ends tied?"

"Come here. There! Now for the other one."

"No, I sha'n't let you do that; you hurt me dreadfully, and you got angry and took the big needle."

"I thought you expected to be hurt."

"I didn't expect to be stabbed."

"Well, just as you please. I suppose you'll go round with one ear-ring."

"Like a little pig with his ear cropped? No, I shall do it myself. See there, Georgie!" and
she threw a bit of a box into my hands.

I opened it, and there lay inside, on their velvet cushion, a pair of the prettiest things
you ever saw,--a tiny bunch of white grapes, and every grape a round pearl, and all hung so
that they would tinkle together on their golden stems every time Faith shook her head,--and
she had a cunning little way of shaking it often enough.

"These must have cost a penny, Faith," said I. "Where'd you get them?"

"Mr. Gabriel gave them to me, just now. He went up-town and bought them. And I don't want him
to know that my ears weren't bored."

"Mr. Gabriel? And you took them?"

"Of course I took them, and mighty glad to get them."

"Faith, dear," said I, "don't you know that you shouldn't accept presents from gentlemen, and
especially now you're a married woman, and especially from those of higher station?"

"But he isn't higher."

"You know what I mean. And then, too, he is; for one always takes rank from one's husband."

Faith looked rather downcast at this.

"Yes," said I,--"and pearls and calico"----

"Just because you haven't got a pair yourself! There, be still! I don't want any of your instructions
in duty!"

"You ought to put up with a word from a friend, Faith," said I. "You always come to me with
your grievances. And I'll tell you what I'll do. You used to like these coral branches of mine;
and if you'll give those back to Mr. Gabriel, you shall have the coral."

Well, Faith she hesitated, standing there trying to muster her mind to the needle, and it ended
by her taking the coral, though I don't believe she returned the pearls,--but we none of us
ever saw them afterwards.

We'd been talking in a pretty low tone, because mother was asleep; and just as she'd finished
the other ear, and a little drop of blood stood up on it like a live ruby, the door opened
and Dan and Mr. Gabriel came in. There never was a prettier picture than Faith at that moment,
and so the young stranger thought, for he stared at her, smiling and at ease, just as if she'd
been hung in a gallery and he'd bought a ticket. So then he sat down and repeated to Dan and
mother what she'd told me, and he promised to send for the papers to prove it all. But he never
did send for them,--delaying and delaying, till the summer wore away; and perhaps there were
such papers and perhaps there weren't. I've always thought he didn't want his own friends to
know where he was. Dan might be a rich man to-day, if he chose to look them up; but he'd scorch
at a slow fire before he'd touch a copper of it. Father never believed a word about it, when
we recited it again to him.

"So Faith 'a come into her fortune, has she?" said he. "Pretty child! She 'a'n't had so much
before sence she fell heir to old Miss Devereux's best chany, her six silver spoons, and her
surname."

So the days passed, and the greater part of every one Mr. Gabriel was dabbling in the water
somewhere. There wasn't a brook within ten miles that he didn't empty of trout, for Dan knew
the woods as well as the shores, and he knew the clear nights when the insects can keep free
from the water so that next day the fish rise hungry to the surface; and so sometimes in the
brightest of May noons they'd bring home a string of those beauties, speckled with little tongues
of flame; and Mr. Gabriel would have them cooked, and make us all taste them,--for we don't
care much for that sort, down here on the Flats; we should think we were famished, if we had
to eat fish. And then they'd lie in wait all day for the darting pickerel in the little Stream
of Shadows above; and when it came June, up the river he went trolling for bass, and he used
a different sort of bait from the rest,--bass won't bite much at clams,--and he hauled in great
forty-pounders. And sometimes in the afternoons he took out Faith and me,--for, as Faith would
go, whether or no, I always made it a point to put by everything and go too; and I used to
try and get some of the other girls in, but Mr. Gabriel never would take them, though he was
hail-fellow-well-met with everybody, and was everybody's favorite, and it was known all round
how he found out Faith, and that alone made him so popular, that I do believe, if he'd only
taken out naturalization-papers, we'd have sent him to General Court. And then it grew time
for the river-mackerel, and they used to bring in at sunset two or three hundred in a shining
heap, together with great lobsters that looked as if they'd been carved out of heliotrope-stone,
and so old that they were barnacled. And it was so novel to Mr. Gabriel, that he used to act
as if he'd fallen in fairy-land.

After all, I don't know what we should have done without him that summer: he always paid Dan
or father a dollar a day and the hire of the boat; and the times were so hard, and there was
so little doing, that, but for this, and packing the barrels of clam-bait, they'd have been
idle and fared sorely. But we'd rather have starved: though, as for that, I've heard father
say there never was a time when he couldn't go out and catch some sort of fish and sell it
for enough to get us something to eat. And then this Mr. Gabriel, he had such a winning way
with him, he was as quick at wit as a bird on the wing, he had a story or a song for every
point, he seemed to take to our simple life as if he'd been born to it, and he was as much
interested in all our trifles as we were ourselves. Then he was so sympathetic, he felt everybody's
troubles, he went to the city and brought down a wonderful doctor to see mother, and he got
her queer things that helped her more than you'd have thought anything could, and he went himself
and set honeysuckles out all round Dan's house, so that before summer was over it was a bower
of great sweet blows, and he had an alms for every beggar, and a kind word for every urchin,
and he followed Dan about as a child would follow some big shaggy dog. He introduced, too,
a lot of new-fangled games; he was what they called a gymnast, and in feats of rassling there
wasn't a man among them all but he could stretch as flat as a flounder. And then he always
treated. Everybody had a place for him soon,--even I did; and as for Dan, he'd have cut his
own heart out of his body, if Mr. Gabriel 'd had occasion to use it. He was a different man
from any Dan 'd ever met before, something finer, and he might have been better, and Dan's
loyal soul was glad to acknowledge him master, and I declare I believe he felt just as the
Jacobites in the old songs used to feel for royal Charlie. There are some men born to rule
with a haughty, careless sweetness, and others born to die for them with stern and dogged devotion.

Well, and all this while Faith wasn't standing still; she was changing steadily, as much as
ever the moon changed in the sky. I noticed it first one day when Mr. Gabriel'd caught every
child in the region and given them a picnic in the woods of the Stack-Yard-Gate, and Faith
was nowhere to be seen tiptoeing round every one as she used to do, but I found her at last
standing at the head of the table,--Mr. Gabriel dancing here and there, seeing to it that all
should be as gay as he seemed to be,--quiet and dignified as you please, and feeling every
one of her inches. But it wasn't dignity really that was the matter with Faith,--it was just
gloom. She'd brighten up for a moment or two and then down would fall the cloud again, she
took to long fits of dreaming, and sometimes she'd burst out crying at any careless word, so
that my heart fairly bled for the poor child,--for one couldn't help seeing that she'd some
secret unhappiness or other; and I was as gentle and soothing to her as it's in my nature to
be. She was in to our house a good deal; she kept it pretty well out of Dan's way, and I hoped
she'd get over it sooner or later, and make up her mind to circumstances. And I talked to her
a sight about Dan, praising him constantly before her, though I couldn't hear to do it; and
finally, one very confidential evening, I told her that I'd been in love with Dan myself once
a little, but I'd seen that he would marry her, and so had left off thinking about it; for,
do you know, I thought it might make her set more price on him now, if she knew somebody else
had ever cared for him. Well, that did answer awhile: whether she thought she ought to make
it up to Dan, or whether he really did grow more in her eyes, Faith got to being very neat
and domestic and praiseworthy. But still there was the change, and it didn't make her any the
less lovely. Indeed, if I'd been a man, I should have cared for her more than ever: it was
like turning a child into a woman: and I really think, as Dan saw her going about with such
a pleasant gravity, her pretty figure moving so quietly, her pretty face so still and fair,
as if she had thoughts and feelings now, he began to wonder what had come over Faith, and,
if she were really as charming as this, why he hadn't felt it before; and then, you know, whether
you love a woman or not, the mere fact that she's your wife, that her life is sunk in yours,
that she's something for you to protect and that your honor lies in doing so, gives you a certain
kindly feeling that might ripen into love any day under sunshine and a south wall.

       *       *       *       *       *

METHODS OF STUDY IN NATURAL HISTORY

XI.

Among the astounding discoveries of modern science is that of the immense periods which have
passed in the gradual formation of our earth. So vast were the cycles of time preceding even
the appearance of man on the surface of our globe, that our own period seems as yesterday when
compared with the epochs that have gone before it. Had we only the evidence of the deposits
of rock heaped above each other in regular strata by the slow accumulation of materials, they
alone would convince us of the long and slow maturing of God's work on the earth but when we
add to these the successive populations of whose life this world has been the theatre, and
whose remains are hidden in the rocks into which the mud or sand or soil of whatever kind on
which they lived has hardened in the course of time,--or the enormous chains of mountains whose
upheaval divided these periods of quiet accumulation by great convulsions,--or the changes
of a different nature in the configuration of our globe, as the sinking of lands beneath the
ocean, or the gradual rising of continents and islands above it,--or the wearing of great river-beds,
or the filling of extensive water-basins, till marshes first and then dry land succeeded to
inland seas,--or the slow growth of coral reefs, those wonderful sea-walls raised by the little
ocean-architects whose own bodies furnish both the building-stones and the cement that binds
them together, and who have worked so busily during the long centuries, that there are extensive
countries, mountain-chains, islands, and long lines of coast consisting solely of their remains,--or
the countless forests that must have grown up, flourished, died, and decayed, to fill the storehouses
of coal that feed the fires of the human race to-day,--if we consider all these records of
the past, the intellect fails to grasp a chronology for which our experience furnishes no data,
and the time that lies behind us seems as much an eternity to our conception as the future
that stretches indefinitely before us.

The physical as well as the human history of the world has its mythical age, lying dim and
vague in the morning mists of creation, like that of the heroes and demigods in the early traditions
of man, defying all our ordinary dates and measures. But if the succession of periods that
prepared the earth for the coming of man, and the animals and plants that accompany him on
earth, baffles our finite attempts to estimate its duration, have we any means of determining
even approximately the length of the period to which we ourselves belong? If so, it may furnish
us with some data for the further solution of these wonderful mysteries of time, and it is
besides of especial importance with reference to the question of permanence of Species. Those
who maintain the mutability of Species, and account for all the variety of life on earth by
the gradual changes wrought by time and circumstances, do not accept historical evidence as
affecting the question at all. The monuments of those oldest nations, all whose history is
preserved in monumental records, do not indicate the slightest variation of organic types from
that day to this. The animals that were preserved within their tombs or carved upon their walls
by the ancient Egyptians were the same as those that have their home in the valley of the Nile
today; the negro, whose peculiar features are unmistakable even in their rude artistic attempts
to represent them, was the same woolly-haired, thick-lipped, flat-nosed, dark-skinned being
in the days of the Rameses that he is now. The Apis, the Ibis, the Crocodiles, the sacred Beetles,
have brought down to us unchanged all the characters that superstition hallowed in those early
days. The stony face of the Sphinx is not more true to its past, nor the massive architecture
of the Pyramids more unchanged, than they are. But the advocates of the mutability of Species
say truly enough that the most ancient traditions are but as yesterday in the world's history,
and that what six thousand years could not do sixty thousand years might effect. Leaving aside,
then, all historical chronology, how far back can we trace our own geological period, and the
Species belonging to it? By what means can we determine its duration? Within what limits, by
what standard, may it be measured? Shall hundreds, or thousands, or hundreds of thousands,
or millions of years be the unit from which we start?

I will begin this inquiry with a series of facts which I myself have had an opportunity of
investigating with especial care respecting the formation and growth of the Coral Reefs of
Florida. But first a few words on Coral Reefs in general. They are living limestone walls that
are built up from certain depths in the ocean by the natural growth of a variety of animals,
but limited by the level of high-water, beyond which they cannot rise, since the little beings
that compose them die as soon as they are removed from the vitalizing influence of the pure
sea-water. These walls have a variety of outlines: they may be straight, circular, semicircular,
oblong, according to the form of the coast along which the little Reef-Builders establish themselves;
and their height is, of course, determined by the depth of the bottom on which they rest. If
they settle about an island on all sides of which the conditions for their growth are equally
favorable, they will raise a wall all around it, thus encircling it with a ring of Coral growth.
The Athols in the Pacific Ocean, those circular islands inclosing sometimes a fresh-water lake
in mid-ocean, are Coral walls of this kind, that have formed a ring around a central island.
This is easily understood, if we remember that the bottom of the Pacific Ocean is by no means
a stable foundation for such a structure. On the contrary, over a certain area, which has already
been surveyed with some accuracy by Professor Dana, during the United States Exploring Expedition,
it is subsiding; and if an island upon which the Reef-Builders have established themselves
be situated in that area of subsidence, it will, of course, sink with the floor on which it
rests, carrying down also the Coral wall to a greater depth in the sea. In such instances,
if the rate of subsidence be more rapid than the rate of growth in the Corals, the island and
the wall itself will disappear beneath the ocean. But whenever, on the contrary, the rate of
increase in the wall is greater than that of subsidence in the island, while the latter gradually
sinks below the surface, the former rises in proportion, and by the time it has completed its
growth the central island has vanished, and there remains only a ring of Coral Reef, with here
and there a break, perhaps, at some spot where the more prosperous growth of the Corals has
been checked. If, however, as sometimes happens, there is no such break, and the wall is perfectly
uninterrupted, the sheet of sea-water so inclosed may be changed to fresh water by the rains
that are poured into it. Such a water-basin will remain salt, it is true, in its lower part,
and the fact that it is affected by the rise and fall of the tides shows that it is not entirely
secluded from communication with the ocean outside; but the salt water, being heavier, sinks,
while the lighter rain-water remains above, and it is to all appearance actually changed into
a fresh-water lake.

I need not dwell here on the further history of such a Coral island, or follow it through the
changes by which the summit of its circular wall becomes covered with a fertile soil, a tropical
vegetation springs up on it, and it is at last perhaps inhabited by man. There is something
very attractive in the idea of these green rings inclosing sheltered harbors and quiet lakes
in mid-ocean, and the subject has lost none of its fascination since the mystery of their existence
has been solved by the investigations of several contemporary naturalists who have enabled
us to trace the whole story of their structure. I would refer all who wish for a more detailed
account of them to Charles Darwin's charming little volume on "Coral Reefs," where their mode
of formation is fully described, and also to James D. Dana's "Geological Report of the United
States Exploring Expedition."

Coral Reefs are found only in tropical regions: although Polyps, animals of the same class
as those chiefly instrumental in their formation, are found in all parts of the globe, yet
the Reef-Building Polyps are limited to the Tropics. We are too apt to forget that the homes
of animals are as definitely limited in the water as on the land. Indeed, the subject of the
geographical distribution of animals according to laws that are established by altitude, by
latitude and longitude, by pressure of atmosphere or pressure of water, already alluded to
in a previous article, is exceedingly interesting, and presents a most important field of investigation.
The climatic effect of different degrees of altitude upon the growth of animals and plants
is the same as that of different degrees of latitude; and the slope of a high mountain in the
Tropics, from base to summit, presents, in a condensed form, an epitome, as it were, of the
same kind of gradation in vegetable growth that may be observed from the Tropics to the Arctics.
At the base of such a mountain we have all the luxuriance of growth characteristic of the tropical
forest,--the Palms, the Bananas, the Bread-trees, the Mimosas; higher up, these give way to
a different kind of growth, corresponding to our Oaks, Chestnuts, Maples, etc.; as these wane,
on the loftier slopes comes in the Pine forest, fading gradually, as it ascends, into a dwarfish
growth of the same kind; and this at last gives way to the low creeping Mosses and Lichens
of the greater heights, till even these find a foothold no longer, and the summit of the mountain
is clothed in perpetual snow and ice. What have we here but the same series of changes through
which we pass, if, travelling northward from the Tropics, we leave Palms and Pomegranates and
Bananas behind, where the Live-Oaks and Cypresses, the Orange-trees and Myrtles of the warmer
Temperate Zone come in, and these die out as we reach the Oaks, Chestnuts, Maples, Elms, Nut-trees,
Beeches, and Birches of the colder Temperate Zone, these again waning as we enter the Pine
forests of the Arctic borders, till, passing out of these, nothing but a dwarf vegetation,
a carpet of Moss and Lichen, fit food for the Reindeer and the Esquimaux, greets us, and beyond
that lies the region of the snow and ice fields, impenetrable to all but the daring Arctic voyager?

I have thus far spoken of the changes in the vegetable growth alone as influenced by altitude
and latitude, but the same is equally true of animals. Every zone of the earth's surface has
its own animals, suited to the conditions under which they are meant to live; and with the
exception of those that accompany man in all his pilgrimages, and are subject to the same modifying
influences by which he adapts his home and himself to all climates, animals are absolutely
bound by the laws of their nature within the range assigned to them. Nor is this the case only
on land, where river-banks, lake-shores, and mountain-ranges might be supposed to form the
impassable boundaries that keep animals within certain limits; but the ocean as well as the
land has its faunae and florae bound within their respective zoölogical and botanical provinces;
and a wall of granite is not more impassable to a marine animal than that ocean-line, fluid
and flowing and ever-changing though it be, on which is written for him, "Hitherto shalt thou
come, but no farther." One word as to the effect of pressure on animals will explain this.

We all live under the pressure of the atmosphere. Now thirty-two feet under the sea doubles
that pressure, since a column of water of that height is equal in weight to the pressure of
one atmosphere. At the depth of thirty-two feet, then, any marine animal is under the pressure
of two atmospheres,--that of the air which surrounds our globe, and of a weight of water equal
to it; at sixty-four feet he is under the pressure of three atmospheres, and so on,--the weight
of one atmosphere being always added for every thirty-two feet of depth. There is a great difference
in the sensitiveness of animals to this pressure. Some fishes live at a great depth and find
the weight of water genial to them, while others would be killed at once by the same pressure,
and the latter naturally seek the shallow waters. Every fisherman knows that he must throw
a long line for a Halibut, while with a common fishing-rod he will catch plenty of Perch from
the rocks near the shore; and the differently colored bands of sea-weed revealed by low tide,
from the green line of the Ulvas through the brown zone of the common Fucas to the rosy and
purple hued sea-weeds of the deeper water show that the florae as well as the faunae of the
ocean have their precise boundaries. This wider or narrower range of marine animals is in direct
relation to their structure, which enables them to bear a greater or less pressure of water.
All fishes, and, indeed, all animals having a wide range of distribution in ocean-depths, have
a special apparatus of water-pores, so that the surrounding element penetrates their structure,
thus equalizing the pressure of the weight, which is diminished from without in proportion
to the quantity of water they can admit into their bodies. Marine animals differ in their ability
to sustain this pressure, just as land animals differ in their power of enduring great variations
of climate and of atmospheric pressure.

Of all air-breathing animals, none exhibits a more surprising power of adapting itself to great
and rapid changes of external influences than the Condor. It may be seen feeding on the sea-shore
under a burning tropical sun, and then, rising from its repast, it floats up among the highest
summits of the Andes and is lost to sight beyond them, miles above the line of perpetual snow,
where the temperature must be lower than that of the Arctics. But even the Condor, sweeping
at one flight from tropic heat to arctic cold, although it passes through greater changes of
temperature, does not undergo such changes of pressure as a fish that rises from a depth of
sixty-four feet to the surface of the sea; for the former remains within the air that surrounds
our globe, and therefore the increase or diminution of pressure to which it is subjected must
be confined within the limits of one atmosphere, while the latter, at a depth of sixty-four
feet, is under a weight equal to that of three such atmospheres, which is reduced to one when
it reaches the sea-level. The change is even much greater for those fishes that come from a
depth of several hundred feet. These laws of limitation in space explain many facts in the
growth of Coral Reefs that would be otherwise inexplicable, and which I will endeavor to make
clear to my readers.

For a long time it was supposed that the Coral animals inhabited very deep waters, for they
were sometimes brought up on sounding-lines from a depth of many hundreds or even thousands
of feet, and it was taken for granted that they must have had their home where they were found;
but the facts recently ascertained respecting the subsidence of ocean-bottoms have shown that
the foundation of a Coral wall may have sunk far below the place where it was laid, and it
is now proved beyond a doubt that no Reef-Building Coral can thrive at a depth of more than
fifteen fathoms, though Corals of other kinds occur far lower, and that the dead Reef-Corals
sometimes brought to the surface from much greater depths are only broken fragments of some
Reef that has subsided with the bottom on which it was growing. But though fifteen fathoms
is the maximum depth at which any Reef-Builder can prosper, there are many which will not sustain
even that degree of pressure, and this fact has, as we shall see, an important influence on
the structure of the Reef.

Imagine now a sloping shore on some tropical coast descending gradually below the surface of
the sea. Upon that slope, at a depth of from ten to twelve or fifteen fathoms, and two or three
or more miles from the main-land, according to the shelving of the shore, we will suppose that
one of those little Coral animals to whom a home in such deep waters is genial has established
itself. How it happens that such a being, which we know is immovably attached to the ground
and forms the foundation of a solid wall, was ever able to swim freely about in the water till
it found a suitable resting-place, I shall explain hereafter, when I say something of the mode
of reproduction of these animals. Accept, for the moment, my unsustained assertion, and plant
our little Coral on this sloping shore some twelve or fifteen fathoms below the surface of
the sea. The internal structure of such a Coral corresponds to that of the Sea-Anemone: the
body is divided by vertical partitions from top to bottom, leaving open chambers between, while
in the centre hangs the digestive cavity connecting by an opening in the bottom with all these
chambers; at the top is an aperture which serves as a mouth, surrounded by a wreath of hollow
tentacles, each one connecting at its base with one of the chambers, so that all parts of the
animal communicate freely with each other. But though the structure of the Coral is identical
in all its parts with that of the Sea-Anemone, it nevertheless presents one important difference.
The body of the Sea-Anemone is soft, while that of the Coral is hard. It is well known that
all animals and plants have the power of appropriating to themselves and assimilating the materials
they need, each selecting from the surrounding elements whatever contributes to its well-being.
The plant takes carbon, the animal takes oxygen, each rejecting what the other requires. We
ourselves build our bones with the lime that we find unconsciously in the world around us;
much of our nourishment supplies us with it, and the very vegetables we eat have, perhaps,
themselves been fed from some old lime strata deposited centuries ago. We all represent materials
that have contributed to construct our bodies. Now Corals possess, in an extraordinary degree,
the power of assimilating to themselves the lime contained in the salt water around them; and
as soon as our little Coral is established on a firm foundation, a lime deposit begins to form
in all the walls of its body, so that its base, its partitions, and its outer wall, which in
the Sea-Anemone remain always soft, become perfectly solid in the Polyp Coral and form a frame
as hard as bone. It may naturally be asked where the lime comes from in the sea which the Corals
absorb in such quantities. As far as the living Corals are concerned the answer is easy, for
an immense deal of lime is brought down to the ocean by rivers that wear away the lime deposits
through which they pass. The Mississippi, whose course lies through extensive lime regions,
brings down yearly lime enough to supply all the animals living in the Gulf of Mexico. But
behind this lies a question not so easily settled, as to the origin of the extensive deposits
of limestone found at the very beginning of life upon earth. This problem brings us to the
threshold of astronomy, for limestone is metallic in character, susceptible therefore of fusion,
and may have formed a part of the materials of our earth, even in an incandescent state, when
the worlds were forming. But though this investigation as to the origin of lime does not belong
either to the naturalist or the geologist, its suggestion reminds us that the time has come
when all the sciences and their results are so intimately connected that no one can be carried
on independently of the others. Since the study of the rocks has revealed a crowded life whose
records are hoarded within them, the work of the geologist and the naturalist has become one
and the same, and at that border-land where the first crust of the earth condensed out of the
igneous mass of materials which formed its earliest condition their investigation mingles with
that of the astronomer, and we cannot trace the limestone in a little Coral without going back
to the creation of our solar system, when the worlds that compose it were thrown off from a
central mass in a gaseous condition.

When the Coral has become in this way permeated with lime, all parts of the body are rigid,
with the exception of the upper margin, the stomach, and the tentacles. The tentacles are soft
and waving, projected or drawn in at will, and they retain their flexible character through
life, and decompose when the animal dies. For this reason the dried specimens of Corals preserved
in museums do not give us the least idea of the living Corals, in which every one of the millions
of beings composing such a community is crowned by a waving wreath of white or green or rose-colored
tentacles.

As soon as the little Coral is fairly established and solidly attached to the ground, it begins
to bud. This may take place in a variety of ways, dividing at the top or budding from the base
or from the sides, till the primitive animal is surrounded by a number of individuals like
itself, of which it forms the nucleus, and which now begin to bud in their turn, each one surrounding
itself with a numerous progeny, all remaining, however, attached to the parent. Such a community
increases till its individuals are numbered by millions; and I have myself counted no less
than fourteen millions of individuals in a Coral mass measuring not more than twelve feet in
diameter. These are the so-called Coral heads which form the foundation of a Coral wall, and
their massive character and regular form seem to be especially adapted to give a strong, solid
base to the whole structure. They are known in our classifications as the Astraeans, so named
on account of the star-shaped form of the little pits that are crowded upon the surface, each
one marking the place of a single individual in such a community.

Thus firmly and strongly is the foundation of the reef laid by the Astraeans; but we have seen
that for their prosperous growth they require a certain depth and pressure of water, and when
they have brought the wall so high that they have not more than six fathoms of water above
them, this kind of Coral ceases to grow. They have, however, prepared a fitting surface for
different kinds of Corals that could not live in the depths from which the Astraeans have come,
but find their genial home nearer the surface; such a home being made ready for them by their
predecessors, they now establish themselves on the top of the Coral wall and continue its growth
for a certain time. These are the Mandrinas, or the so-called Brain-Corals, and the Porites.
The Mandrinas differ from the Astraeans by their less compact and definite pits. In the Astraeans
the place occupied by the animal in the community is marked by a little star-shaped spot, in
the centre of which all the partition-walls meet. But in the Mandrinas, although all the partitions
converge toward the central opening, as in the Astraeans, these central openings elongate,
run into each other, and form waving furrows all over the surface, instead of the small round
pits so characteristic of the Astraeans. The Porites resemble the Astraeans, but the pits are
smaller, with fewer partitions and fewer tentacles, and their whole substance is more porous.

But these also have their bounds within the sea: they in their turn reach the limit beyond
which they are forbidden by the laws of their nature to pass, and there they also pause. But
the Coral wall continues its steady progress; for here the lighter kinds set in,--the Madrepores,
the Millepores, and a great variety of Sea-Fans and Corallines, and the reef is crowned at
last with a many-colored shrubbery of low feathery growth. These are all branching in form,
and many of them are simple calciferous plants, though most of them are true animals, resembling,
however, delicate Algae more than any marine animals; but, on examination of the latter, one
finds them to be covered with myriads of minute dots, each representing one of the little beings
out of which the whole is built.

I would add here one word on the true nature of the Millepores, long misunderstood by naturalists,
because it throws light not only on some interesting facts respecting Coral Reefs, especially
the ancient ones, but also because it tells us something of the early inhabitants of the globe,
and shows us that a class of Radiates supposed to be missing in that primitive creation had
its representatives then as now. In the diagram of the geological periods introduced in a previous
article, I have represented all the three classes of Radiates, Polyps, Acalephs, and Echinoderms,
as present on the first floor of our globe that was inhabited at all. But it is only recently
that positive proofs have been found of the existence of Acalephs or Jelly-Fishes, as they
are called, at that early period. Their very name indicates their delicate structure; and were
there no remains preserved in the rocks of these soft, transparent creatures, it would yet
be no evidence that they did not exist. Fragile as they are, however, they have left here and
there some faint record of themselves, and in the Museum at Carlsruhe, on a slab from Solenhofen,
I have seen a very perfect outline of one which remains undescribed to this day. This, however,
does not carry them farther back than the Jurassic period, and it is only lately that I have
satisfied myself that they not only existed, but were among the most numerous animals in the
first representation of organic life.

The earliest Corals correspond in certain features of their structure to the Millepores. They
differ from them as all early animals differ from the succeeding ones, every geological period
having its special set of representatives. But still they are always true to their class, and
have a certain general correspondence with animals of like kind that follow them in later periods.
In this sense the Millepores are in our epoch the representatives of those early Corals called
by naturalists Tabulata and Rugosa,--distinguished from the Polyp Corals by the horizontal
floors, waving in some, straight in others, which divide the body transversely at successive
heights through its whole length, and also by the absence of the vertical partitions, extending
from top to bottom of each animal, so characteristic of the true Polyps. As I have said, they
were for a long time supposed, notwithstanding these differences, to be Polyps, and I had shared
in this opinion, till, during the winter of 1857, while pursuing my investigations on the Coral
Reefs of Florida, one of these Millepores revealed itself to me in its true character of Acaleph.
It is by its soft parts alone--those parts which are seen only in its living state, and when
the animal is fully open--that its Acalephian character can be perceived, and this accounts
for its being so long accepted as a Polyp, when studied in the dry Coral stock. Nothing could
exceed my astonishment when for the first time I saw such an animal fully expanded, and found
it to be a true Acaleph. It is exceedingly difficult to obtain a view of them in this state,
for, at any approach, they draw themselves in, and remain closed to all investigation. Only
once, for a short hour, I had this opportunity; during that time one of these little creatures
revealed to me its whole structure, as if to tell me, once for all, the story of its existence
through all the successive epochs from the dawn of Creation till now, and then withdrew. With
my most patient watching, I have never been able to see one of them open again. But to establish
the fact that one of the Corals represented from the earliest period till now, and indeed far
more numerous in the beginning than any other, was in truth no Polyp, but an Acaleph, the glimpse
I had was all-sufficient. It came out as if to bear witness of its class,--as if to say, "We,
too, were among the hosts of living beings with which God first peopled His earth."

With these branching Corals the reef reaches the level of high-water, beyond which, as I have
said, there can be no further growth, for want of the action of the fresh sea-water. This dependence
upon the vivifying influence of the sea accounts for one unfailing feature in the Coral walls.
They are always abrupt and steep on the seaward side, but have a gentle slope towards the land.
This is accounted for by the circumstance that the Corals on the outer side of the reef are
in immediate contact with the pure ocean-water, while by their growth they partially exclude
the inner ones from the same influence,--the rapid growth of the latter being also impeded
by any impurity or foreign material washed away from the neighboring shore and mingling with
the water that fills the channel between the main-land and the reef. Thus the Coral Reefs,
whether built around an island, or concentric to a rounding shore, or along a straight line
of coast, are always shelving toward the land, while they are comparatively abrupt and steep
toward the sea. This should be remembered, for, as we shall see hereafter, it has an important
bearing on the question of time as illustrated by Coral Reefs.

I have spoken of the budding of Corals, by which each one becomes the centre of a cluster;
but this is not the only way in which they multiply their kind. They give birth to eggs also,
which are carried on the inner edge of their partition-walls, till they drop into the sea,
where they float about, little, soft, transparent, pear-shaped bodies, as unlike as possible
to the rigid stony structure they are to assume hereafter. In this condition they are covered
with vibratile cilia or fringes, that are always in rapid, uninterrupted motion, and keep them
swimming about in the water. It is by means of these little germs of the Corals, swimming freely
about during their earliest stages of growth, that the reef is continued, at the various heights
where special kinds die out, by those that prosper at shallower depths; otherwise it would
be impossible to understand how this variety of building material, as it were, is introduced
wherever it is needed. This point, formerly a puzzle to naturalists, has become quite clear
since it has been found that myriads of these little germs are poured into the water surrounding
a reef. There they swim about till they find a genial spot on which to establish themselves,
when they become attached to the ground by one end, while a depression takes place at the opposite
end, which gradually deepens to form the mouth and inner cavity, while the edges expand to
form the tentacles, and the productive life of the little Coral begins: it buds from every
side, and becomes the foundation of a new community.

I should add, that, beside the Polyps and the Acalephs, Mollusks also have their representatives
among the Corals. There is a group of small Mollusks called Bryozoa, allied to the Clams by
their structure, but excessively minute when compared to the other members of their class,
which, like the other Corals, harden in consequence of an absorption of solid materials, and
contribute to the formation of the reef. Besides these, there are certain plants, limestone
Algae,--Corallines, as they are called,--which have their share also in the work.

I had intended to give some account of the Coral Reefs of Florida, and to show what bearing
they have upon the question of time and the permanence of Species; but this cursory sketch
of Coral Reefs in general has grown to such dimensions that I must reserve a more particular
account of the Florida Reefs and Keys for a future article.

       *       *       *       *       *

SPIRITS.

"Did you ever see a ghost?" said a gentleman to his friend.

"No, but I once came very nigh seeing one," was the facetious reply.

The writer of this article has had still better luck,--having twice come very nigh seeing a
ghost. In other words, two friends, in whose veracity and healthy clearness of vision I have
perfect confidence, have assured me that they have distinctly seen a disembodied spirit.

If I had permission to do so, I would record the street in Boston, and the number of the house,
where the first of these two apparitions was seen; but that would be unpleasant to parties
concerned. Years ago, the lady who witnessed it told me the particulars, and I have recently
heard her repeat them. A cousin, with whom her relations were as intimate as with a brother,
was in the last stages of consumption. One morning, when she carried him her customary offering
of fruit or flowers, she found him unusually bright, his cheeks flushed, his eyes brilliant,
and his state of mind exceedingly cheerful. He talked of his recovery and future plans in life
with hopefulness almost amounting to certainty. This made her somewhat sad, for she regarded
it as a delusion of his flattering disease, a flaring up of the life-candle before it sank
in the socket. She thus reported the case, when she returned home. In the afternoon she was
sewing as usual, surrounded by her mother and sisters, and listening to one who was reading
aloud. While thus occupied, she chanced to raise her eyes from her work and glance to the opposite
corner of the room. Her mother, seeing her give a sudden start, exclaimed, "What is the matter?"
She pointed to the corner of the room and replied, "There is Cousin ------!" They all told
her she had been dreaming, and was only half wakened. She assured them she had not even been
drowsy; and she repeated with great earnestness, "There is Cousin ------, just as I saw him
this morning. Don't you see him?" She could not measure the time that the vision remained;
but it was long enough for several questions and answers to pass rapidly between herself and
other members of the family. In reply to their persistent incredulity, she said, "It is very
strange that you don't see him; for I see him as plainly as I do any of you." She was so obviously
awake and in her right mind, that the incident naturally made an impression on those who listened
to her. Her mother looked at her watch, and despatched a messenger to inquire how Cousin ------
did. Word was soon brought that he died at the same moment he had appeared in the house of
his relatives. The lady who had this singular experience is too sensible and well-informed
to be superstitious. She was not afflicted with any disorder of the nerves, and was in good
health at the time.

To my other story I can give "a local habitation and a name" well known. When Harriet Hosmer,
the sculptor, visited her native country a few years ago, I had an interview with her, during
which our conversation happened to turn upon dreams and visions.

"I have had some experience in that way," said she. "Let me tell you a singular circumstance
that happened to me in Rome. An Italian girl named Rosa was in my employ for a long time, but
was finally obliged to return to her mother, on account of confirmed ill-health. We were mutually
sorry to part, for we liked each other. When I took my customary exercise on horseback, I frequently
called to see her. On one of these occasions, I found her brighter than I had seen her for
some time past. I had long relinquished hopes of her recovery, but there was nothing in her
appearance that gave me the impression of immediate danger. I left her with the expectation
of calling to see her again many times. During the remainder of the day I was busy in my studio,
and I do not recollect that Rosa was in my thoughts after I parted from her. I retired to rest
in good health and in a quiet frame of mind. But I woke from a sound sleep with an oppressive
feeling that some one was in the room. I wondered at the sensation, for it was entirely new
to me; but in vain I tried to dispel it. I peered beyond the curtain of my bed, but could distinguish
no objects in the darkness. Trying to gather up my thoughts, I soon reflected that the door
was locked, and that I had put the key under my bolster. I felt for it, and found it where
I had placed it. I said to myself that I had probably had some ugly dream, and had waked with
a vague impression of it still on my mind. Reasoning thus, I arranged myself comfortably for
another nap. I am habitually a good sleeper, and a stranger to fear; but, do what I would,
the idea still haunted me that some one was in the room. Finding it impossible to sleep, I
longed for daylight to dawn, that I might rise and pursue my customary avocations. It was not
long before I was able dimly to distinguish the furniture in my room, and soon after I heard,
in the apartments below, familiar noises of servants opening windows and doors. An old clock,
with ringing vibrations, proclaimed the hour. I counted one, two, three, four, five, and resolved
to rise immediately. My bed was partially screened by a long curtain looped up at one side.
As I raised my head from the pillow, Rosa looked inside the curtain, and smiled at me. The
idea of anything supernatural did not occur to me. I was simply surprised, and exclaimed, 'Why,
Rosa! How came you here, when you are so ill?' In the old familiar tones, to which I was so
much accustomed, a voice replied, 'I am well, now.' With no other thought than that of greeting
her joyfully, I sprang out of bed. There was no Rosa there! I moved the curtain, thinking she
might perhaps have playfully hidden herself behind its folds. The same feeling induced me to
look into the closet. The sight of her had come so suddenly, that, in the first moment of surprise
and bewilderment, I did not reflect that the door was locked. When I became convinced there
was no one in the room but myself, I recollected that fact, and thought I must have seen a vision.

"At the breakfast-table, I said to the old lady with whom I boarded, 'Rosa is dead.' 'What
do you mean by that?' she inquired. 'You told me she seemed better than common when you called
to see her yesterday.' I related the occurrences of the morning, and told her I had a strong
impression Rosa was dead. She laughed, and said I had dreamed it all. I assured her I was thoroughly
awake, and in proof thereof told her I had heard all the customary household noises, and had
counted the clock when it struck five. She replied, 'All that is very possible, my dear. The
clock struck into your dream. Real sounds often mix with the illusions of sleep. I am surprised
that a dream should make such an impression on a young lady so free from superstition as you
are.' She continued to jest on the subject, and slightly annoyed me by her persistence in believing
it a dream, when I was perfectly sure of having been wide awake. To settle the question, I
summoned a messenger and sent him to inquire how Rosa did. He returned with the answer that
she died that morning at five o'clock."

I wrote the story as Miss Hosmer told it to me, and after I had shown it to her, I asked if
she had any objection, to its being published, without suppression of names. She replied, "You
have reported the story of Rosa correctly. Make what use you please of it. You cannot think
it more interesting, or unaccountable, than I do myself."

A remarkable instance of communication between spirits at the moment of death is recorded in
the Life of the Rev. Joseph S. Buckminster, written by his sister. When he was dying in Boston,
their father was dying in Vermont, ignorant of his son's illness. Early in the morning, he
said to his wife, "My son Joseph is dead." She told him he had been dreaming. He calmly replied,
"I have not slept, nor dreamed. He is dead." When letters arrived from Boston, they announced
that the spirit of the son had departed from his body the same night that the father received
an impression of it.

Such incidents suggest curious psychological inquiries, which I think have attracted less attention
than they deserve. It is common to explain all such phenomena as "optical illusions" produced
by "disordered nerves." But is that any explanation? How do certain states of the nerves produce
visions as distinct as material forms? In the two cases I have mentioned, there was no disorder
of the nerves, no derangement of health, no disquietude of mind. Similar accounts come to us
from all nations, and from the remotest periods of time; and I doubt whether there ever was
a universal superstition that had not some great, unchangeable truth for its basis. Some secret
laws of our being are wrapt up in these occasional mysteries, and in the course of the world's
progress we may perhaps become familiar with the explanation, and find genuine philosophy under
the mask of superstition. When any well-authenticated incidents of this kind are related, it
is a very common inquiry, "What are such visions sent for?" The question implies a supposition
of miraculous power, exerted for a temporary and special purpose. But would it not be more
rational to believe that all appearances, whether spiritual or material, are caused by the
operation of universal laws, manifested under varying circumstances? In the infancy of the
world, it was the general tendency of the human mind to consider all occasional phenomena as
direct interventions of the gods, for some special purpose at the time. Thus, the rainbow was
supposed to be a celestial road, made to accommodate the swift messenger of the gods, when
she was sent on an errand, and withdrawn as soon as she had done with it. We now know that
the laws of the refraction and reflection of light produce the radiant iris, and that it will
always appear whenever drops of water in the air present themselves to the sun's rays in a
suitable position. Knowing this, we have ceased to ask what the rainbow appears for.

That a spiritual form is contained within the material body is a very ancient and almost universal
belief. Hindoo books of the remotest antiquity describe man as a triune being, consisting of
the soul, the spiritual body, and the material body. This form within the outer body was variously
named by Grecian poets and philosophers. They called it "the soul's image," "the invisible
body," "the aërial body," "the shade." Sometimes they called it "the sensuous soul," and described
it as "all eye and all ear,"--expressions which cannot fail to suggest the phenomena of clairvoyance.
The "shade" of Hercules is described by poets as dwelling in the Elysian Fields, while his
body was converted to ashes on the earth, and his soul was dwelling on Olympus with the gods.
Swedenborg speaks of himself as having been a visible form to angels in the spiritual world;
and members of his household, observing him at such times, describe the eyes of his body on
earth as having the expression of one walking in his sleep. He tells us, that, when his thoughts
turned toward earthly things, the angels would say to him, "Now we are losing sight of you":
and he himself felt that he was returning to his material body. For several years of his life,
he was in the habit of seeing and conversing familiarly with visitors unseen by those around
him. The deceased brother of the Queen of Sweden repeated to him a secret conversation, known
only to himself and his sister. The Queen had asked for this, as a test of Swedenborg's veracity;
and she became pale with astonishment when every minute particular of her interview with her
brother was reported to her. Swedenborg was a sedate man, apparently devoid of any wish to
excite a sensation, engrossed in scientific pursuits, and remarkable for the orderly habits
of his mind. The intelligent and enlightened German, Nicolai, in the later years of his life,
was accustomed to find himself in the midst of persons whom he knew perfectly well, but who
were invisible to others. He reasoned very calmly about it, but arrived at no solution more
satisfactory than the old one of "optical illusion," which is certainly a very inadequate explanation.
Instances are recorded, and some of them apparently well authenticated, of persons still living
in this world, and unconscious of disease, who have seen themselves in a distinct visible form,
without the aid of a mirror. It would seem as if such experiences had not been confined to
any particular part of the world; for they have given birth to a general superstition that
such apparitions are a forerunner of death,--or, in other words, of the complete separation
of the spiritual body from the natural body. A friend related to me the particulars of a fainting-fit,
during which her body remained senseless an unusually long time. When she was restored to consciousness,
she told her attendant friends that she had been standing near the sofa all the time, watching
her own lifeless body, and seeing what they did to resuscitate it. In proof thereof she correctly
repeated to them all they had said and done while her body remained insensible. Those present
at the time corroborated her statement, so far as her accurate knowledge of all their words,
looks, and proceedings was concerned.

The most numerous class of phenomena concerning the "spiritual body" relate to its visible
appearance to others at the moment of dissolution. There is so much testimony on this subject,
from widely separated witnesses, that an unprejudiced mind, equally removed from superstition
and skepticism, inclines to believe that they must be manifestations of some hidden law of
our mysterious being. Plato says that everything in this world is merely the material form
of some model previously existing in a higher world of ethereal spiritual forms; and Swedenborg's
beautiful doctrine of Correspondences is a reappearance of the same idea. If their theory be
true, may not the antecedent type of that strange force which in the material world we call
electricity be a spiritual magnetism. As yet, we know extremely little of the laws of electricity,
and we know nothing of those laws of spiritual attraction and repulsion which are perhaps the
cause of electricity. There may be subtile and as yet unexplained causes, connected with the
state of the nervous system, the state of the mind, the accord of two souls under peculiar
circumstances, etc., which may sometimes enable a person who is in a material body to see another
who is in a spiritual body. That such visions are not of daily occurrence may be owing to the
fact that it requires an unusual combination of many favorable circumstances to produce them;
and when they do occur, they seem to us miraculous simply because we are ignorant of the laws
of which they are transient manifestations.

Lord Bacon says,--"The relations touching the force of imagination and the secret instincts
of Nature are so uncertain, as they require a great deal of examination ere we conclude upon
them. I would have it first thoroughly inquired whether there be any secret passages of sympathy
between persons of near blood,--as parents, children, brothers, sisters, nurse-children, husbands,
wives, etc. There be many reports in history, that, upon the death of persons of such nearness,
men have had an inward feeling of it. I myself remember, that, being in Paris, and my father
dying in London, two or three days before my father's death I had a dream, which I told to
divers English gentlemen, that my father's house in the country was plastered all over with
black mortar. Next to those that are near in blood, there may be the like passage and instincts
of Nature between great friends and great enemies. Some trial also would be made whether pact
or agreement do anything: as, if two friends should agree, that, such a day in every week,
they, being in far distant places, should pray one for another, or should put on a ring or
tablet one for another's sake, whether, if one of them should break their vow and promise,
the other should have any feeling of it in absence."

This query of Lord Bacon, whether an agreement between two distant persons to think of each
other at a particular time may not produce an actual nearness between their spirits, is suggestive.
People partially drowned and resuscitated have often described their last moments of consciousness
as flooded with memories, so that they seemed to be surrounded by the voices and countenances
of those they loved. If this is common when soul and body are approaching dissolution, may
not such concentration of loving thoughts produce an actual nearness, filling the person thought
of with "a feeling as if somebody were in the room"? And if the feeling thus induced is very
powerful, may not the presence thus felt become objective, or, in other words, a vision?

The feeling of the nearness of spirits to when the thoughts are busily occupied with them may
have led to the almost universal belief among ancient nations that the souls of the dead came
back on the anniversary of their death to the places where their bodies were deposited. This
belief invested their tombs with peculiar sacredness, and led the wealthy to great expense
in their construction. Egyptians, Greeks, and Romans built them with upper apartments, more
or less spacious. These chambers were adorned with vases, sculptures, and paintings on the
walls, varying in costliness and style according to the means or taste of the builder. The
tomb of Cestius in Rome contained a chamber much ornamented with paintings. Ancient Egyptian
tombs abound with sculptures and paintings, probably representative of the character of the
deceased. Thus, on the walls of one a man is pictured throwing seed into the ground, followed
by a troop of laborers; farther on, the same individual is represented as gathering in the
harvest; then he is seen in procession with wife, children, friends, and followers, carrying
sheaves to the temple, a thank-offering to the gods. This seems to be a painted epitaph, signifying
that the deceased was industrious, prosperous, and pious. It was common to deposit in these
tombs various articles of use or ornament, such as the departed ones had been familiar with
and attached to, while on earth. Many things in the ancient sculptures indicate that Egyptian
women were very fond of flowers. It is a curious fact, that little china boxes with Chinese
letters on them, like those in which the Chinese now sell flower-seeds, have been discovered
in some of these tombs. Probably the ladies buried there were partial to exotics from China;
and perhaps friends placed them there with the tender thought that the spirit of the deceased
would be pleased to see them, when it came on its annual visit. Sometimes these paintings and
sculptures embodied ideas reaching beyond the earthly existence, and "the aërial body" was
represented floating among stars, escorted by what we should call angels, but which they named
"Spirits of the Sun." Families and friends visited these consecrated chambers on the anniversary
of the death of those whose bodies were placed in the room below. They carried with them music
and flowers, cakes and wine. Religious ceremonies were performed, with the idea that the "invisible
body" was present with them and took part in the prayers and offerings. The visitors talked
together of past scenes, and doubtless their conversation abounded with touching allusions
to the character and habits of the unseen friend supposed to be listening. It was, in fact,
an annual family-gathering, scarcely sadder in its memories than is our Thanksgiving festival
to those who have travelled far on the pilgrimage of life.

St. Paul teaches that "there is a natural body, and there is a spiritual body." The early Christians
had a very vivid faith, that, when the soul dropped its outer envelope of flesh, it continued
to exist in a spiritual form. When any of their number died, they observed the anniversary
of his departure by placing on the altar an offering to the church, in his name. On such occasions,
they partook of the sacrament, with the full belief that his unseen form was present with them,
and shared in the sacred rite, as he had done while in the material body. On the anniversary
of the death of martyrs, there were such commemorations in all the churches; and that their
spirits were believed to be present is evident from the fact that numerous petitions were addressed
to them. In the Roman Catacombs, where many of the early Christians were buried, are apartments
containing sculptures and paintings of apostles and martyrs. They are few and rude, because
the Christians of that period were poor, and used such worldly goods as they had more for benevolence
than for show. But these memorials, in such a place, indicate the same feeling that adorned
the magnificent tombs of Egypt, Greece, and Rome. These subterranean apartments were used for
religious meetings in the first centuries of our era, and it is generally supposed that they
were chosen as safe hiding-places from persecution. Very likely it was so; but it is not improbable
that the spot had peculiar attractions to worshippers, from the feeling that they were in the
midst of an unseen congregation, whose bodies were buried there. If it was so, it would be
but one of many proofs that the early Christians mixed with their new religion many of the
traditions and ceremonies of their forefathers, who had been educated in other forms of faith.
Even in our own time, threads of these ancient traditions are more or less visible through
the whole warp and woof of our literature and our customs. Many of the tombs in the Cemetery
of Père la Chaise have pretty upper apartments. On the anniversary of the death of those buried
beneath, friends and relatives carry thither flowers and garlands. Women often spend the entire
day there, and parties of friends assemble to partake of a picnic repast.

Most of the ancient nations annually observed a day in honor of the Souls of Ancestors. This
naturally grew out of the custom of meeting in tombs to commemorate the death of relatives.
As generations passed away, it was unavoidable that many of the very old sepulchres should
be seldom or never visited. Still it was believed that the "shades" even of remote ancestors
hovered about their descendants and were cognizant of their doings. It was impossible to observe
separately the anniversaries of departed millions, and therefore a day was set apart for religious
ceremonies in honor of all ancestors. Hindoo and Chinese families have from time immemorial
consecrated such days; and the Romans observed a similar anniversary under the name of Parentalia.

Christians retained this ancient custom, but it took a new coloring from their peculiar circumstances.
The ties of the church were substituted for ties of kindred. Its members were considered spiritual
fathers and brothers, and there was an annual festival in honor of spiritual ancestors. The
forms greatly resembled those of the Roman Parentalia. The gathering-place was usually at the
tomb of some celebrated martyr, or in some chapel consecrated to his memory. Crowds of people
came from all quarters to implore the spirits of the martyrs to send them favorable seasons,
good crops, healthy children, etc., just as the old Romans had been accustomed to invoke the
names of their ancestors for similar blessings. Prayers were repeated, hymns sung, and offerings
presented to the church, as aforetime to the gods. A great banquet was prepared, and wine was
drunk to the souls of the martyrs so freely that complete intoxication was common. In view
of this and other excesses, the pious among the bishops exerted their influence to abolish
the custom. But it was so intertwined with the traditional faith of the populace, and so gratifying
to their social propensities, that it was a long time before it could be suppressed. A vestige
of the old anniversaries in honor of the Souls of Ancestors remains in the Catholic Church
under the name of All-Souls' Day.

In France, the Parentalia of the ancient Romans is annually observed under the name of "Le
Jour des Morts." All Paris flock to the cemeteries, bearing bouquets, crosses, and garlands
to decorate the tombs of departed ancestors, relatives, and friends. The gay population is,
for that day, sobered by tender and solemn memories. Many a tear glistens on the wreaths, and
the passing traveller notices many a one whose trembling lips and swollen eyelids indicate
that the soul is immersed in recollections of departed loved ones. The "cities of the dead"
bloom with fresh flowers, in multifarious forms of crosses, crowns, and hearts. From all the
churches prayers ascend for those who have dropped their earthly garment of flesh, and who
live henceforth in the "spiritual body," which becomes more and more beautiful with the progress
of the soul,--it being, as the ancients called it, "the soul's image."

THE TITMOUSE.
  Didst steal the glow that lights the West? Ve-ni, Vi-di, Vi-ci."

       *       *       *       *       *

SALTPETRE AS A SOURCE OF POWER.

Every element of strength in a civilized community demands special notice. The present material
progress of nations brings us every day in contact with the application of power under various
conditions, and the most thoughtless person is to some extent influenced mentally by the improvements,
taking the places of older means and ways of adaptation, in the arts of life.

We travel by the aid of steam-power, and we think and speak of a locomotive or a steamboat
as we once thought and spoke of a horse or a man; and no little feeling of self-sufficiency
is engendered by the conclusion that this new source of power has been brought under control
and put to work in our day.

It is also true that we do not always entertain the most correct view of what we term the new
power of locomotive and steamboat; and as it may aid us in some further steps connected with
the subject of my remarks, a familiar object, such as a steamboat, may be taken as illustrative
of the application of power, and we may thus obtain some simple ideas of what power truly is,
in Nature.

My travelled friend considers a steamboat as a ship propelled by wheels, the shaft to which
they are attached being moved by the machinery. He follows back to the piston of the engine
and finds the motor there,--satisfied that he has discovered in the transference of rectilinear
to rotatory motion the reason for the progress of the boat. A more inquisitive friend does
not rest here, but assumes that the power of the steam flowing through the machine sets in
action its parts; and he rests from farther pursuit of the power, where the larger number of
those who give any observation to the application of steam are found,--gratified with the knowledge
accumulated, and the readiness with which an explanation of the motion of the boat can be traced
to the power of steam as its source.

We must proceed a little farther on our backward course from the point where the power is applied,
and in our analysis consider the steam as only the vehicle or carrier of the power; and examining
the conditions, we find that water acted on by fire, while contained in a suitable vessel,
after some time takes up certain properties which enable it to go forward and move the ponderous
machinery of the boat. The water evidently here derives its new character of steam from the
fire, and we have now reached the source of the movement of steam, and traced it to the fire.
In fact, we have found the source of power, in this most mechanical of all mechanical machines,
to be removed from the department of knowledge which treats of machines!

But we need not pause here, although we must now enter a little way into chemical, instead
of mechanical science. The fire prepares the water to act as a carrier of power; it must contain
power, therefore; and what is it which we call fire? In placing on the grate coal or wood,
and providing for the contact of a continuous current of air, we intend to bring about certain
chemical actions as consequent on a disposition which we know coal and wood to possess. When
we apply fire, the chemical actions commence and the usual effects follow. Now, if we for a
moment dismiss the consideration of the means adopted, it becomes apparent to every one, that,
as the fire will continue to increase with successive additions of fuel, or as it will continue
indefinitely with a regular supply, there must be something else than mere motor action here.
We cannot call it chemical action, and dismiss the thought, and neglect further inquiry, unless
we would place ourselves with those who regard the movement of the steamboat as being due to
the machinery.

Our farther progress in this analysis will soon open a wide field of knowledge and inquiry;
but it is sufficient for our present purpose, if, by a careful study of the composition and
chemical disposition of the proximate compounds of the coal and the wood fuel, we arrive at
the conclusion that both are the result of forces which, very slight in themselves at any moment,
yet when acting through long periods of time become laid up in the form of coal and wood. All
that effort which the tree has exhibited during its growth from the germ of the seed to its
state of maturity, when taken as fuel, is pent up in its substance, ready, when fire is applied,
to escape slowly and continuously. In the case of the coal, after the growth of the plant from
which it was formed, the material underwent changes which enabled it to conserve more forces,
and to exhibit more energy when fire is applied to its mass; and hence the distinction between
wood and coal.

Our analysis thus far has developed the source of the power moving the steamboat as existing
in the gradual action of forces influencing vegetation, concentrated and locked up in the fuel.
For the purpose of illustrating the subject of this essay, we require no farther progress in
this direction. A moment of thought at this point and we shall cease to consider steam-power
as new; for, long before man appeared on this earth, the vegetation was collecting and condensing
those ordinary natural powers which we find in fuel. In our time, too, the rains and dews,
heat, motion, and gaseous food, are being stored up in a wondrous manner, to serve as elements
of power which may be used and applied now or hereafter.

In this view, too, we may include the winds, the falling of rain, the ascent and descent of
sap, the condensation of gases,--in short, the natural powers, exerted before,--as the cause
of motion in the steamboat.

Passing from these considerations not unconnected with the subject, let us inquire what saltpetre
is, and how it is formed.

The term Saltpetre is applied to a variety of bodies, distinguished, however, by their bases,
as potash saltpetre, soda saltpetre, lime saltpetre, etc., which occur naturally. They are
all compounds of nitric acid and bases, or the gases nitrogen and oxygen united to bases, and
are found in all soils which have not been recently washed by rains, and which are protected
from excessive moisture.

The decomposition of animal and of some vegetable bodies in the soil causes the production
of one constituent of saltpetre, while the earth and the animal remains supply the other. Evaporation
of pure water from the surface of the earth causes the moisture which rises from below to bring
to the surface the salt dissolved in it; and as this salt is not volatile, the escape of the
moisture leaves it at or near the surface. Hence, under buildings, especially habitations of
men and animals, the salt accumulates, and in times of scarcity it may be collected. In all
cases of its extraction from the earth several kinds of saltpetre are obtained, and the usual
course is to decompose these by the addition of salts of potash, so as to form from them potash
saltpetre, the kind most generally consumed.

In this decomposition of animal remains and the formation of saltpetre the air performs an
important part, and the changes it effects are worthy of our attention.

Let us consider the aërial ocean surrounding our earth and resting upon it, greatly larger
in mass and extent than the more familiar aqueous ocean below it, and more closely and momentarily
affecting our well-being.

The pure air, consisting of 20.96 volumes of oxygen gas and 79.04 volumes of nitrogen gas,
preserves, under all the variations of climate and height above the surface of the earth, a
remarkable constancy of composition,--the variation of one one-hundredth part never having
been observed. But additions and subtractions are being constantly made, and the atmosphere,
as distinguished from the pure air, is mixed with exhalations from countless sources on the
land and the sea. Wherever man moves, his fire, his food, the materials of his dwellings, the
soil he disturbs, all add their volatile parts to the atmosphere. Vegetation, death, and decay
pour into it copiously substances foreign to the composition of pure air. The combustion of
one ton of coal adds at least sixteen tons of impurity to the atmosphere; and when we estimate
on the daily consumption of coal the addition from this source alone, the amount becomes enormous.

Experiments have been made for the purpose of estimating these additions, and the results of
those most carefully conducted show how very slightly the combined causes affect the general
composition of our atmosphere; and although the present refined methods of chemists enable
them to detect the presence of an abnormal amount of some substances, no research has yet been
successful in determining how far this varies from the natural quantity at all times necessarily
present in the atmosphere.

It is, however, the comparatively minute portions of nitrogenous matter in the atmosphere that
we are to consider as the source of the nitrous acids formed there, and of part of that found
in the earth. From some experiments made during the day and night it has been found, that,
under the most favorable circumstances, six millions six hundred and seventy thousand parts
of air afford one part of nitrogenous bodies, if the whole quantity be abstracted! A portion
only of this quantity can be withdrawn in natural operations, such as the falling of rain and
the deposition of dew,--the larger part always remaining behind.

When the oxygen of our atmosphere is exposed, while in its usual hygrometric state, to the
influence of bodies attracting a portion of it, such as decomposing substances, or when it
forms the medium of electrical discharges, it suddenly assumes new powers, acquires a greatly
increased activity, affects our organs of smell, dissolves in fluids, and has been mistaken
for a new substance, and even named "ozone." Among the new characters thus conferred on it
is the power of uniting with or burning many substances. This ozonized oxygen, when brought
into mixture with many nitrogenized bodies, forms with them nitrous acids, completely destroying
their former condition and composition; hence, in the atmosphere, this part of the oxygen becomes
a purifier of the whole mass, from which it removes putrescent exhalations, miasmatic vapors,
and the effluvia from every source of sea or land. Very curious are the effects of this active
oxygen, which is ever present in some portion of the atmosphere. Moved by the wind, mixed with
the impure upward currents rising from cities, it seizes on and changes rapidly all foulness,
and if the currents are not too voluminous, the impure air becomes changed to pure. As ozonized
oxygen can be easily detected, we may pass from the city, where (overpowered by the exhalations)
it does not exist, and find it in the air of the vicinity; and moving away several miles, ascertain
that a normal amount there prevails, and that step by step, on our return to abodes of a dense
population, the quantity diminishes and finally all disappears.

We are now prepared to answer the second part of the question which was suggested, and to find
that nitrous acids formed in the atmosphere by direct oxidation of nitrogenous matter may unite
with the ammonia present to produce one kind of saltpetre; and when the rains or the dews carry
this to the earth, the salts of lime, potash, and soda there found will decompose this ammoniacal
saltpetre, and set the ammonia free, to act over again its part. So in regard to decomposing
organic matters in the soil: ozonized oxygen changes them in the same way. The earth and calcareous
rocks of caves, penetrated by the air, slowly produce saltpetre, and before the theory of the
action was understood, artificial imitation of natural conditions enabled us to manufacture
saltpetre. Animal remains, stratified with porous earth or the sweepings of cities, and disposed
in long heaps or walls, protected from rain, but exposed to the prevailing winds, soon form
nitrous salts, and a large space covered with these deposits carefully tended forms a saltpetre
plantation. France, Prussia, Sweden, Switzerland, and other countries, have been supplied with
saltpetre from similar artificial arrangements.

But the atmosphere is washed most thoroughly by the rains falling in and near tropical countries,
and the changes there are most rapid, so that the production of saltpetre, favored by moisture
and hot winds, attains its highest limit in parts of India and the bordering countries.

During the prevalence of dry winds, the earth in many districts of India becomes frosted over
with nitrous efflorescences, and the great quantity shipped from the commercial ports, and
that consumed in China, is thus a natural production of that region. The increased amount due
to tropical influences will be seen in the instances here given of the produce from the rich
earths of different countries:--

Natural.

  France, Church of Mousseau,            5-3/8 per cent.
    "     Cavern of Fouquières,          3-1/2  "
  U. States, Tennessee, dirt of caves,   0.86   "
  Ceylon, Cave of Memoora,               3-1/10 "
  Upper Bengal, Tirhoot, earth simply,   1-6/10 "
  Patree in Guzerat, best sweepings,     8-7/10 "

In each case the salt is mixed saltpetres.

Artificial.

  France, 100 lbs. earth from
       plantations afford                 8 to 9 oz.
  Hungary and Sweden, from
       the same,                          1/2 to 2-3/10 per cent.

It may be calculated that the flesh of animals, free from bone, carefully decomposed, will
afford ninety-five pounds of saltpetre for one thousand pounds thus consumed.

In the manufacture of saltpetre, the earths, whether naturally or artificially impregnated,
are mixed with the ashes from burnt wood, or salts of potash, so that this base may take the
place of all others, and produce long prisms of potash saltpetre.

In this country there are numerous caves of great extent in Kentucky, Tennessee, and Missouri,
from which saltpetre has been manufactured. Under the most favorable conditions of abundance
of labor, obtainable at a low price, potash saltpetre can be made at a cost about one-fourth
greater than the average price of India saltpetre, and those sources of supply are the best
natural deposits known on this side of the Rocky Mountains. Where there is an insufficient
supply of manure in a country, resort to the artificial production of saltpetre is simply a
robbery committed on the resources of the agriculturists, and it is only during the pressure
of a great struggle like that of the wars of Napoleon, that the conversion into saltpetre of
materials which can become food for the community would be permitted.

Hitherto, in peaceful times, our supply of saltpetre has come from India through commercial
channels; but twice within a few years this course of trade has been interrupted by the British
Government, and the price of a necessary article has been greatly enhanced,--leading reflecting
minds to the inquiry after other sources whence to draw the quantity required for an increasing
consumption. On the boundary between Peru and Chili, in South Peru, about forty miles from
the ports of Conception and Iquique, is a depression in the general surface of a saline desert,
where a bed of soda saltpetre, about two and a half feet thick and one hundred and fifty miles
long, exists. The salt is massive, and, occurring in a rainless climate, it is dry, and contains
about sixty per cent. of pure soda saltpetre. In Brazil, on the San Francisco, the same salt
is found extending sixty or seventy miles,--and again near the town of Pilao Arcado, the beds
being about two hundred and forty miles from Bahia, but at present inaccessible for want of
roads. The Peruvian native saltpetre is rudely refined in the desert, and then transported
on the backs of mules to the shipping-port. As found in commerce, it is less impure than India
saltpetre; and it might be usefully substituted for the latter in the manufacture of gunpowder,
were it less deliquescent in damp atmospheres. For chemical purposes it now replaces India
saltpetre, but the larger consumption is perhaps as a fertilizer of land, in the cool and humid
climate of England, the low price it bears in the market permitting this consumption.

We have found that the various saltpetres of natural production, or those obtained in artificial
arrangements, are converted by the use of potash salts into potash saltpetre, and among the
products so changed is natural soda saltpetre. Now to us in this country, so near the sources
of abundant supply of soda saltpetre, this substitution becomes a matter of great interest.
We possess and can produce the alkaline salt of potash in almost unlimited quantity, and, excepting
for some special purposes, it is consumed for its alkaline energy alone. When soda saltpetre
in proper proportion is dissolved and thus mixed with potash salt, an exchange of bases takes
place, and no loss of alkaline energy follows. The soda in a quite pure state is eliminated
from the soda saltpetre, and will serve for the manufactures of glass and soap; while the potash,
taking the oxygen compound of the soda saltpetre, produces, as a final result, a pure and beautiful
prismatic saltpetre, most economically and abundantly.

Instead of working on a hundred pounds of earth to obtain at most eight or nine pounds of saltpetre,
a hundred pounds of soda saltpetre will afford more than one hundred and nine pounds of potash
saltpetre, when skilfully treated. Here, then, we have, by simple chemical treatment of an
imported, but very cheap salt, a result constituting a source of abundant supply of potash
saltpetre, without the loss of the agent concerned in the transformation.

We have traced slightly in outline the formation of saltpetre to the action of ozonized oxygen
on nitrogen compounds, in the atmosphere, or in the earth,--the conditions being the same in
both cases. If we pursue the study of this action of ozonized oxygen farther, we shall not
restrict its combining disposition to these compounds, but prove that it has the power of uniting
directly with the nitrogen naturally forming part of the pure air. While nitrogenized bodies
are present, however, in the atmosphere, or in the humid artificial heaps of saltpetre plantations,
the action of ozonized oxygen is on these, and the nitrous compounds formed unite with the
bases lime, soda, and potash, also present, to form saltpetre.

Under all the conditions necessary, we see the permanent gases, oxygen and nitrogen, leaving
the atmosphere and changing from their gaseous to a solid dry state, when they become chemically
combined with potash, and there are 53-46/100 parts of the gaseous matter and 46-54/100 parts
of the potash in 100 parts of the saltpetre by weight.

Having now found what saltpetre is and how it is formed, let us advance to the consideration
of it as a source of power.

Through the exertion of chemical attraction the gaseous elements of the atmosphere have become
solid in the saltpetre; and as we know the weight of this part in a cubic inch of saltpetre,
the volume of the gases combined is easily ascertained to be about eight hundred times that
of the saltpetre. Hence, as every cubic inch of condensation represents an atmosphere as large
as the cubic inch of saltpetre formed, we may roughly estimate that the condensing force arising
from chemical attraction in this case is 800 times 15 lbs., or 12,000 lbs.!

Strictly speaking, only about four-tenths of a cubic inch of potash holds this enormous power
in connection with it so as to form a cubic inch of saltpetre, which we may handle and bruise,
may melt and cool, dissolve and crystallize, without explosion or change. It contains conserved
a force which represents the aggregate result of innumerable minute actions, taking place among
portions of matter which escape our senses from their minuteness and excite our wonder by their
transformation. Closely similar are these actions to the agencies in vegetation which build
up the wood of the tree or the material of the coal destined to serve for the production of
fire in all the applications of steam which we have briefly noticed in illustration.

In availing ourselves of the concentrated power accumulated in saltpetre, we resort to bodies
which easily kindle when fire is applied, such as sulphur and finely powdered charcoal: these
substances are most intimately mixed with the saltpetre in a powdered state, and the dampened
mass subjected to great pressure is afterwards broken into grains of varied size, constituting
gunpowder.

The substances thus added to the saltpetre have both the disposition and the power of burning
with and decomposing the nitrous element of the saltpetre, and in so doing they do not simply
open the way for the energetic action of the gases escaping, but, owing to the high temperature
produced, a new force is added.

If the gases escaped from combination simply, they would exert for every cubic inch of saltpetre,
as we have here considered it, the direct power of 12,000 lbs.; but under the new conditions,
the volume of escaping gas has a temperature above 2,000° Fahrenheit, and consequently its
force in overcoming resistance is more than four times as great, or at least 48,000 lbs.

Such, then, is the power which can be obtained from a cubic inch of saltpetre, when it is so
compounded as to form some of the kinds of gunpowder; and the fact of greatest importance in
this connection is the control we have over the amount of the force exerted and the time in
which the energy can be expended, by variations in the proportions of the eliminating agents
employed.

We have used the well-known term Gunpowder to express the compound by which we easily obtain
the power latent in saltpetre; and the use of the term suggests the employment of guns, which
is secondary to the main point we are illustrating. As the enormous consumption of power takes
place during peaceful times, so the consumption of saltpetre during a state of war is much
lessened, because the prosecution of public and private works is then nearly suspended.

The value and importance of saltpetre as a source of power is seen in the adaptation of its
explosive force to special purposes. It performs that work well which we cannot carry on so
perfectly by means of any other agent, and the great mining and engineering works of a country
are dependent on this source for their success, and for overcoming obstacles where other forces
fail. With positive certainty the engineer can remove a portion of a cliff or rock without
breaking it into many parts, and can displace masses to convenient distances, under all the
varying demands which arise in the process of mining, tunnelling, or cutting into the earth.

In all these cases of application we see that the powder contains within itself both the material
for producing force and the means by which that force is applied, no other motor being necessary
in its application.

Modern warfare has become in its simplest expression the intelligent application of force,
and that side will successfully overcome or resist the other which can in the shortest time
so direct the greater force. In artillery as well as infantry practice, the control over the
time necessary in the decomposition of the powder has been obtained through the refinements
already made in the manufacture, and the best results of the latest trials confirm in full
the conclusion that saltpetre is a source of great and easily controlled power, which can act
through short or extended space.

Under the view here presented, it is evident that saltpetre is indispensable to progress in
the arts of civilization and peace, as well as in military operations, and that no nation can
advance in material interests, or even maintain strict independence, without possessing within
its boundaries either saltpetre or the sources from which it can be drawn at all times. In
its use for protecting the property of a nation from the attacks of an enemy, and as the means
of insuring respect, we may consider saltpetre as an element of strength in a State, and as
such deserving a high place in the consideration of those who direct the counsels or form the
policy of a country.

Has the subject of having an exhaustless supply of this important product or the means of producing
it been duly considered?

       *       *       *       *       *

WEATHER IN WAR.

It is not very flattering to that glory-loving, battle-seeking creature, Man, that his best-arranged
schemes for the destruction of his fellows should often be made to fail by the condition of
the weather. More or less have the greatest of generals been "servile to all the skyey influences."
Upon the state of the atmosphere frequently depends the ability of men to fight, and military
hopes rise and fall with the rising and falling of the metal in the thermometer's tube. Mercury
governs Mars. A hero is stripped of his plumes by a tempest, and his laurels fly away on the
invisible wings of the wind, and are seen no more forever. Empires fall because of a heavy
fall of snow. Storms of rain have more than once caused monarchs to cease to reign. A hard
frost, a sudden thaw, a "hot spell," a "cold snap," a contrary wind, a long drought, a storm
of sand,--all these things have had their part in deciding the destinies of dynasties, the
fortunes of races, and the fate of nations. Leave the weather out of history, and it is as
if night were left out of the day, and winter out of the year. Americans have fretted a little
because their "Grand Army" could not advance through mud that came up to the horses' shoulders,
and in which even the seven-league boots would have stuck, though they had been worn as deftly
as Ariel could have worn them. They talked as if no such thing had ever before been known to
stay the march of armies; whereas all military operations have, to a greater or a lesser extent,
depended for their issue upon the softening or the hardening of the earth, or upon the clearing
or the clouding of the sky. The elements have fought against this or that conqueror, or would-be
conqueror, as the stars in their courses fought against Sisera; and the Kishon is not the only
river that has through its rise put an end to the hopes of a tyrant. The condition of rivers,
which must be owing to the condition of the weather, has often colored events for ages, perhaps
forever. The melting of the snows of the Pyrenees, causing a great rise of the rivers of Northern
Spain, came nigh bringing ruin upon Julius Caesar himself; and nothing but the feeble character
of the opposing general saved him from destruction.

The preservation of Greece, with all its incalculable consequences, must be credited to the
weather. The first attempt to conquer that country, made by the Persians, failed because of
a storm that disabled their fleet. Mardonius crossed the Hellespont twelve or thirteen years
before that feat was accomplished by Xerxes, and he purposed marching as far as Athens. His
army was not unsuccessful, but off Mount Athos the Persian fleet was overtaken by a storm,
which destroyed three hundred ships and twenty thousand men. This compelled him to retreat,
and the Greeks gained time to prepare for the coming of their enemy. But for that storm, Athens
would have been taken and destroyed, the Persians having an especial grudge against the Athenians
because of their part in the taking and burning of Sardis; and Athens was destined to become
Greece for all after-time, so that her as yet dim light could not have been quenched without
darkening the whole world. When Xerxes himself entered Europe, and was apparently about to
convert Hellas into a satrapy, it was a storm, or a brace of storms, that saved that country
from so sad a fate, and preserved it for the welfare of all after generations of men. The Great
King, in the hope of escaping "the unseen atmospheric enemies which howl around that formidable
promontory," had caused Mount Athos to be cut through, but, as the historian observes, "the
work of destruction to his fleet was only transferred to the opposite side of the intervening
Thracian sea." That fleet was anchored on the Magnesian coast, when a hurricane came upon it,
known to the people of the country as the Hellespontias, and which blew right upon the shore.
For three days this wind continued to blow, and the Persians lost four hundred warships, many
transports and provision craft, myriads of men, and an enormous amount of matériel. The Grecian
fleet, which had fled before that of Persia, now retraced its course, believing that the latter
was destroyed, and would have fled again but for the arts and influence of Themistocles. The
sea-fights of Artemisium followed, in which the advantage was, though not decisively, with
the Greeks; and that they finally retreated was owing to the success of the Persians at Thermopylae.
Between the first and second battle of Artemisium the Persians suffered from another storm,
which inflicted great losses upon them. These disasters to the enemy greatly encouraged the
Greeks, who believed that they came directly from the gods; and they made it possible for them
to fight the naval battle of Salamis, and to win it. So great was the alarm of Xerxes, who
thought that the victors would sail to the Hellespont, and destroy the bridge he had thrown
over that strait, that he ordered his still powerful fleet to hasten to its protection. He
himself fled by land, but on his arrival at the Hellespont he found that the bridge had been
destroyed by a storm; and he must have been impressed as deeply as Napoleon was in this century,
that the elements had leagued themselves with his mortal enemies. After his flight, and the
withdrawal of his fleet from the war, the Persians had not a chance left, and the defeat of
his lieutenant Mardonius, at Plataea, was of the nature of a foregone conclusion.

It is not possible to exaggerate the importance of the assistance which the Greeks received
from the storms mentioned, and it is not strange that they were lavish in their thanks and
offerings to Poseidon the Saviour, or that they continued piously to express their gratitude
in later days. Mankind at large have reason to be thankful for the occurrence of those storms;
for if they had not happened, Greece must have been conquered, and all that she has been to
the world would have been that world's loss. It was not until after the overthrow of the Persians
that Athens became the home of science, literature, art, and commerce; and if Athens had been
removed from Greece, there would have been little of Hellenic genius left for the delight of
future days. Not only was most of that which is known as Greek literature the production of
the years that followed the failure of Xerxes, but the success of the Greeks was the means
of preserving all of their earlier literature. The Persians were not barbarians, and, had they
achieved their purpose, they might have promoted civilisation in Europe; but that civilization
would have been Asiatic in its character, and it might have been as fleeting as the labors
of the Carthaginians in Europe and Africa. Nor would they have felt any interest in the preservation
of the works of those Greeks who wrote before the Marathonian time, which they would have regarded
with that contempt with which most conquerors look upon the labors of those whom they have
enslaved. That most brilliant of ages, the age of Pericles, could never have come to pass under
the dominion of Persia; and the Greeks of Europe, when ruled by satraps from Susa, would have
been of as little weight in the ancient world as, under that kind of rule, were the Greeks
of Ionia. All future history was involved in the decision of the Persian contest, and we may
well feel grateful that the event was not left for the hands of men to decide, but that the
winds and the waves of the Grecian seas so far equalized the power of the combatants as to
enable the Greeks, who fought for us as well as for themselves, to roll back the tide of Oriental
conquest. We might not have had even the Secession War, if there had been no storms in the
Thracian seas in a summer the roses of which perished more than two thousand three hundred
years ago.[A]

[Footnote A: When the Athenian patriots under Thrasybulus occupied Phyle, they would have been
destroyed by the forces of the Thirty Tyrants, had not a violent snow-storm happened, which
compelled the besiegers to retreat. The patriots characterized this storm as Providential.
Had the weather remained fair, the patriots would have been beaten, the democracy would not
have been restored, and we should never have had the orations of Demosthenes; and perhaps even
Plato might not have written and thought for all after time.]

The modern contest which most resembles that which was waged between the Greeks and the Persians
is that war between England and Spain which came to a crisis in 1588, when the Spanish Armada
was destroyed by the tempests of the Northern seas, after having been well mauled by the English
fleet. The English seamen behaved well, as they always do; but the Spanish loss would not have
been irreparable, if the weather had remained mild. What men had begun so well storms completed.
A contrary wind prevented the Spanish Admiral from pursuing his course in a direction that
would have proved favorable to his second object, which was the preservation of his fleet.
He was forced to stand to the North, so that he rushed right into the jaws of destruction.
He encountered in those remote and almost unknown waters tempests that were even more merciless
than the fighting ships and fireships of the island heretics. Philip II. bore his loss with
the same calmness that he bore the victory of Lepanto. As, on hearing of the latter, he merely
said, "Don John risked a great deal," so, when tidings came to him that the Invincible Armada
had been found vincible, he quietly remarked, "I sent it out against men, and not against the
billows." Down to the very last year, it had been the common, and all but universal opinion,
that, if the Spaniards had succeeded in landing in England, they would have been beaten, so
resolute were the English in their determination to oppose them, and so extensive were their
preparations for resistance. Elizabeth at Tilbury had been one of the stock pieces of history,
and her words of defiance to Parma and to Spain have been ringing through the world ever since
they were uttered after the Armada had ceased to threaten her throne. We now know that the
common opinion on this subject, like the common opinion respecting some other crises, was all
wrong, a delusion and a sham, and based on nothing but plausible lies. Mr. Motley has put men
right on this point, as on some others; and it is impossible to read his brilliant and accurate
narrative of the events of 1588 without coming to the conclusion that Elizabeth was in the
summer of that year in the way to receive punishment for the cowardly butchery which had been
perpetrated, in her name, if not by her direct orders, in the great hall of Fotheringay. She
was saved by those winds which helped the Dutch to blockade Parma's army, in the first instance,
and then by those Orcadian tempests which smote the Armada, and converted its haughty pride
into a by-word and a scoffing. The military preparations of England were of the feeblest character;
and it is not too much to say, that the only parallel case of Governmental weakness is that
which is afforded by the American history of last spring, when we had not an efficient company
or a seaworthy armed ship with which to fight the Secessionists, who had been openly making
their preparations for war for months. The late Mr. Richard Rush mentions, in the second series
of his "Residence at the Court of London," that at a dinner at the Marquis of Lansdowne's,
in 1820, the conversation turned on the Spanish Armada; and he was surprised to find that most
of the company, which was composed of members of Parliament and other public men, were of the
opinion that the Spaniards, could they have been landed, would have been victorious. With genuine
American faith in English invincibility, he wondered what the company could mean, and also
what the English armies would have been about. It was not possible for any one then to have
said that there were no English armies at that time to be about anything; but now we see that
those armies were but imaginary bodies, having not even a paper existence. Parma, who was even
an abler diplomatist than soldier,--that is, he was the most accomplished liar in an age that
was made up of falsehood,--had so completely gulled the astute Elizabeth that she was living
in the fools' paradise; and so little did she and most of her counsellors expect invasion,
that a single Spanish regiment of infantry might, had it then been landed, have driven the
whole organized force of England from Sheerness to Bristol. Those Englishmen who sneer so bitterly
at the conduct of our Government but a year ago would do well to study closely the history
of their own country in 1588, in which they will find much matter calculated to lessen their
conceit, and to teach them charity. The Lincoln Government of the United States had been in
existence but little more than thirty days when it found itself involved in war with the Rebels;
the Elizabethan Government had been in existence for thirty years when the Armada came to the
shores of England, to the astonishment and dismay of those "barons bold and statesmen old in
bearded majesty" whom we have been content to regard as the bravest and the wisest men that
have lived since David and Solomon. Elizabeth, who had a beard that vied with Burleigh's,--the
evidence of her virgin innocence,--felt every hair of her head curling from terror when she
learned how she had been "done" by Philip's lieutenant; and old Burleigh must have thought
that his mistress was in the condition of Jockey of Norfolk's master at Bosworth,--"bought
and sold." Fortunately for both old women, and for us all, the summer gales of 1588 were adverse
to the Spaniards, and protected Old England. We know not whence the wind cometh nor whither
it goeth, but we know that its blows have often been given with effect on human affairs; and
it never blew with more usefulness, since the time when it used up the ships of Xerxes, than
when it sent the ships of Philip to join "the treasures that old Ocean hoards." Had England
then been conquered by Spain, though but temporarily, Protestant England would have ceased
to exist, and the current of history would have been as emphatically changed as was the current
of the Euphrates under the labors of the soldiers of Cyrus. We should have had no Shakspeare,
or a very different Shakspeare from the one that we have; and the Elizabethan age would have
presented to after centuries an appearance altogether unlike that which now so impressively
strikes the mind. As that was the time out of which all that is great and good in England and
America has proceeded, in letters and in arms, in religion and in politics, we can easily understand
how vast must have been the change, had not the winds of the North been so unpropitious to
the purposes of the King of the South.

The English are very proud of the victories of Crécy and Agincourt, as well they may be; for,
though gained in the course of as unjust and unprovoked and cruel wars as ever were waged even
by Englishmen, they are as splendid specimens of slaughter-work as can be found in the history
of "the Devil's code of honor." But they owe them both to the weather, which favored their
ancestors, and was as unfavorable to the ancestors of the French. At Crécy the Italian cross-bow
men in the French army not only came into the field worn down by a long march on a hot day
in August, but immediately after their arrival they were exposed to a terrible thunder-storm,
in which the rain fell in absolute torrents, wetting the strings of their bows, and rendering
them unserviceable. The English archers, who carried the far more useful long-bow, kept their
bows in their cases until the rain ceased, and then took them out dry, and in perfect condition;
besides which, even if the strings of the long-bows had been wetted, they could not have been
materially injured, as they were thin and pliable, while those of the cross-bows were so thick
and unpliable that they could not be tightened or slackened at pleasure. In after-days this
defect in the cross-bow was removed, but it existed in full force in 1346. When the battle
began, the Italian quarrel was found to be worthless, because of the strings of the arbalists
having absorbed so much moisture, while the English arrows came upon the poor Genoese in frightful
showers, throwing them into a panic, and inaugurating disaster to the French at the very beginning
of the action. The day was lost from that moment, and there was not a leader among the French
capable of restoring it.

At Agincourt the circumstances were very different, but quite as fatal to the French. That
battle was fought on the 25th of October, 1415, and the French should have won it according
to all the rules of war,--but they did not win it, because they had too much valor and too
little sense. A cautious coward makes a better soldier than a valiant fool, and the boiling
bravery of the French has lost them more battles than any other people have lost through timidity.
Henry V.'s invasion of France was the most wicked attack that ever was made even by England
on a neighboring nation, and it was meeting with its proper reward, when French folly ruined
everything. The French overtook the English on the 24th of October, and by judicious action
might have destroyed them, for they were by far the more numerous,--though most English authorities,
with characteristic "unveracity," grossly exaggerate the inequality of numbers that really
did exist between the two armies. On the night of the 24th the rain fell heavily, making the
ground quite unfit for the operations of heavy cavalry, in which the strength of the French
consisted, while the English had their incomparable archers, the worthy predecessors of the
English infantry of to-day, one of whom was calculated to do more efficient service than could
have been expected, as the circumstances of the field were, from ten knights cumbered with
bulky mail. Sir Harris Nicolas, the most candid English historian of the battle, and who prepared
a very useful, but unreadable volume concerning it, after speaking of the bad arrangements
adopted by the French, proceeds to say,--"The inconveniences under which the French labored
were much increased by the state of the ground, which was not only soft from heavy rains, but
was broken up by their horses during the preceding night, the weather having obliged the valets
and pages to keep them in motion. Thus the statement of French historians may readily be credited,
that, from the ponderous armor with which the men-at-arms were enveloped, and the softness
of the ground, it was with the utmost difficulty they could either move or lift their weapons,
notwithstanding their lances had been shortened to enable them to fight closely,--that the
horses at every step sunk so deeply into the mud, that it required great exertion to extricate
them,--and that the narrowness of the place caused their archers to be so crowded as to prevent
them from drawing their bows." Michelet's description of the day is the best that can be read,
and he tells us, that, when the signal of battle was given by Sir Thomas Erpingham, the English
shouted, but "the French army, to their great astonishment, remained motionless. Horses and
knights appeared to be enchanted, or struck dead in their armor. The fact was, that their large
battle-steeds, weighed down with their heavy riders and lumbering caparisons of iron, had all
their feet completely sunk in the deep wet clay; they were fixed there, and could only struggle
out to crawl on a few steps at a walk," Upon this mass of chivalry, all stuck in the mud, the
cloth-yard shafts of the English yeomen fell like hailstones upon the summer corn. Some few
of the French made mad efforts to charge, but were annihilated before they could reach the
English line. The English advanced upon the "mountain of men and horses mixed together," and
butchered their immovable enemies at their leisure. Plebeian hands that day poured out patrician
blood in torrents. The French fell into a panic, and those of their number who could run away
did so. It was the story of Poitiers over again, in one respect; for the Black Prince owed
his victory to a panic that befell a body of sixteen thousand French, who scattered and fled
without having struck a blow. Agincourt was fought on St. Crispin's day, and a precious strapping
the French got. The English found that there was "nothing like leather." It was the last battle
in which the oriflamme was displayed; and well it might be; for, red as it was, it must have
blushed a deeper red over the folly of the French commanders.

The greatest battle ever fought on British ground, with the exceptions
of Hastings and Bannockburn,--and greater even than Hastings, if numbers
are allowed to count,--was that of Towton, the chief action in the Wars
of the Roses; and its decision was due to the effect of the weather on
the defeated army. It was fought on the 29th of March, 1461, which was
the Palm-Sunday of that year. Edward, Earl of March, eldest son of the
Duke of York, having made himself King of England, advanced to the North
to meet the Lancastrian army. That army was sixty thousand strong, while
Edward IV. was at the head of less than forty-nine thousand. After some
preliminary fighting, battle was joined on a plain between the villages
of Saxton and Towton, in Yorkshire, and raged for ten hours. Palm-Sunday
was a dark and tempestuous day, with the snow falling heavily. At first
the wind was favorable to the Lancastrians, but it suddenly changed, and
blew the snow right into their faces. This was bad enough, but it was
not the worst, for the snow slackened their bow-strings, causing their
arrows to fall short of the Yorkists, who took them from the ground, and
sent them back with fatal effect. The Lancastrian leaders then sought
closer conflict, but the Yorkists had already achieved those advantages
which, under a good general, are sure to prepare the way to victory. It
was as if the snow had resolved to give success to the pale rose. That
which Edward had won he was resolved to increase, and his dispositions
were of the highest military excellence; but it is asserted that he
would have been beaten, because of the superiority of the enemy in men,
but for the coming up, at the eleventh hour, of the Duke of Norfolk, who
was the Joseph Johnston of 1461, doing for Edward what the Secessionist
Johnston did for Beauregard in 1861. The Lancastrians then gave way,
and retreated, at first in orderly fashion, but finally falling into
a panic, when they were cut down by thousands. They lost twenty-eight
thousand men, and the Yorkists eight thousand. This was a fine piece of
work for the beginning of Passion-Week, bloody laurels gained in civil
conflict being substituted for palm-branches! No such battle was ever
fought by Englishmen in foreign lands.
  Crécy was to this but sport,
  Poitiers but a pageant vain,
  And the work of Agincourt
  Only like a tournament.
  Half the blood which there was spent
  Had sufficed to win again
  Anjou and ill-yielded Maine,
  Normandy and Aquitaine."

Edward IV., it should seem, was especially favored by the powers of the air; for, if he owed
victory at Towton to wind and snow, he owed it to a mist at Barnet. This last action was fought
on the 14th of April, 1471, and the prevalence of the mist, which was very thick, enabled Edward
so to order his military work as to counterbalance the enemy's superiority in numbers. The
mist was attributed to the arts of Friar Bungay, a famous and most rascally "nigromancer."
The mistake made by Warwick's men, when they thought Oxford's cognizance, a star paled with
rays, was that of Edward, which was a sun in full glory, (the White Rose en soleil,) and so
assailed their own friends, and created a panic, was in part attributable to the mist, which
prevented them from seeing clearly; and this mistake was the immediate occasion of the overthrow
of the army of the Red Rose. That Edward was enabled to fight the Battle of Barnet with any
hope of success was also owing to the weather. Margaret of Anjou had assembled a force in France,
Louis XI. supporting her cause, and this force was ready to sail in February, and by its presence
in England victory would unquestionably have been secured for the Lancastrians. But the elements
opposed themselves to her purpose with so much pertinacity and consistency that it is not strange
that men should have seen therein the visible hand of Providence. Three times did she embark,
but only to be driven back by the wind, and to suffer loss. Some of her party sought to persuade
her to abandon the enterprise, as Heaven seemed to oppose it; but Margaret was a strong-minded
woman, and would not listen to the suggestions of superstitious cowards. She sailed a fourth
time, and held on in the face of bad weather. Half a day of good weather was all that was necessary
to reach England, but it was not until the end of almost the third week that she was able to
effect a landing, and then at a point distant from Warwick. Had the King-maker been the statesman-soldier
that he has had the credit of being, he never would have fought Edward until he had been joined
by Margaret; and he must have known that her non-arrival was owing to contrary winds, he having
been himself a naval commander. But he acted like a knight-errant, not like a general, gave
battle, and was defeated and slain, "The Last of the Barons." Having triumphed at Barnet, Edward
marched to meet Margaret's army, which was led by Somerset, and defeated it on the 4th of May,
after a hardly-contested action at Tewkesbury. It was on that field that Prince Edward of Lancaster
perished; and as his father, Henry VI., died a few days later, "of pure displeasure and melancholy,"
the line of Lancaster became extinct.

