SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION--BUREAU OF ETHNOLOGY.

ZUÑI FETICHES.

BY

FRANK HAMILTON CUSHING.

CONTENTS.

Zuñi philosophy                                      9
  Worship of animals                                11
  Origin of Zuñi Fetichism                          12
  The Zuñi Iliad                                    12
    The Drying of the World                         13
  Power of the Fetiches                             15
Prey Gods of the Six Regions                        16
  Their origin                                      16
    Pó-shai-aŋ-k'ia                                 16
  Their power as mediators                          18
    Mí-tsi                                          18
  Their worship                                     19
Prey Gods of the Hunt                               20
  Their relation to the others                      20
  Their origin                                      20
    The distribution of the animals                 21
  Their varieties                                   24
    The Mountain Lion--Hunter God of the North      25
    The Coyote--Hunter God of the West              26
    The Wild Cat--Hunter God of the South           27
    The Wolf--Hunter God of the East                28
    The Eagle--Hunter God of the Upper Regions      29
    The Mole--Hunter God of the Lower Regions       30
    The Ground Owl and the Falcon                   30
  Their relative values                             30
  Their custodian                                   31
  The rites of their worship                        32
    The Day of the Council of the Fetiches          32
    Ceremonials of the hunt                         33
  Their power                                       39
Prey Gods of the Priesthood of the Bow              40
  The Knife-Feathered Monster, the Mountain Lion,
                           and the Great White Bear 40
  Their resemblance to the Prey Gods of the Hunt    41
  The rites of their worship                        41
Other Fetiches                                      44
  Fetiches of Navajo origin                         44
    The pony                                        44
    The sheep                                       44
Amulets and charms                                  44

ILLUSTRATIONS

Plate I.--Prey God fetiches                                   12
     II.--Prey God fetiches of the Six Regions                16
    III.--Prey God fetiches of the hunt                       20
     IV.--Mountain Lion fetiches of the chase                 24
      V.--Coyote fetiches of the chase                        26
     VI.--Wild Cat fetiches of the chase                      27
    VII.--Wolf fetiches of the chase                          28
   VIII.--Eagle fetiches of the chase                         29
     IX.--Mole and Ground Owl fetiches                        30
      X.--Shield and fetich of the Priesthood of the Bow      40
     XI.--Shield and fetich of the Priesthood of the Bow      40

Fig  1.--Concretion                                           45
     2.--Mineral fetich                                       45
     3.--Fossil fetich                                        56

ZUÑI FETICHES.

BY FRANK H. CUSHING.

ZUÑI PHILOSOPHY.

The Á-shi-wi, or Zuñis, suppose the sun, moon, and stars, the sky, earth, and sea, in all their
phenomena and elements; and all inanimate objects, as well as plants, animals, and men, to
belong to one great system of all-conscious and interrelated life, in which the degrees of
relationship seem to be determined largely, if not wholly, by the degrees of resemblance. In
this system of life the starting point is man, the most finished, yet the lowest organism;
at least, the lowest because most dependent and least mysterious. In just so far as an organism,
actual or imaginary, resembles his, is it believed to be related to him and correspondingly
mortal; in just so far as it is mysterious, is it considered removed from him, further advanced,
powerful, and immortal. It thus happens that the animals, because alike mortal and endowed
with similar physical functions and organs, are considered more nearly related to man than
are the gods; more nearly related to the gods than is man, because more mysterious, and characterized
by specific instincts and powers which man does not of himself possess. Again, the elements
and phenomena of nature, because more mysterious, powerful and immortal, seem more closely
related to the higher gods than are the animals; more closely related to the animals than are
the higher gods, because their manifestations often resemble the operations of the former.

In consequence of this, and through the confusion of the subjective with the objective, any
element or phenomenon in nature, which is believed to possess a personal existence, is endowed
with a personality analogous to that of the animal whose operations most resemble its manifestation.
For instance, lightning is often given the form of a serpent, with or without an arrow-pointed
tongue, because its course through the sky is serpentine, its stroke instantaneous and destructive;
yet it is named Wí-lo-lo-a-ne, a word derived not from the name of the serpent itself, but
from that of its most obvious trait, its gliding, zigzag motion. For this reason, the serpent
is supposed to be more nearly related to lightning than to man; more nearly related to man
than is lightning, because mortal and less mysterious. As further illustrative of the interminable
relationships which are established on resemblances fancied or actual, the flint arrow-point
may be cited. Although fashioned by man, it is regarded as originally the gift or "flesh" of
lightning, as made by the power of lightning, and rendered more effective by these connections
with the dread element; pursuant of which idea, the zigzag or lightning marks are added to
the shafts of arrows. A chapter might be written concerning this idea, which may possibly help
to explain the Celtic, Scandinavian, and Japanese beliefs concerning "elf-shafts," and "thunder-stones,"
and "bolts."

In like manner, the supernatural beings of man's fancy--the "master existences"--are supposed
to be more nearly related to the personalities with which the elements and phenomena of nature
are endowed than to either animals or men; because, like those elements and phenomena, and
unlike men and animals, they are connected with remote tradition in a manner identical with
their supposed existence to-day, and therefore are considered immortal.

To the above descriptions of the supernatural beings of Zuñi Theology should be added the statement
that all of these beings are given the forms either of animals, of monsters compounded of man
and beast, or of man. The animal gods comprise by far the largest class.

In the Zuñi, no general name is equivalent to "the gods," unless it be the two expressions
which relate only to the higher or creating and controlling beings--the "causes," Creators
and Masters, "Pí-kwain=á-hâ-i" (Surpassing Beings), and "Á-tä-tchu" (All-fathers), the beings
superior to all others in wonder and power, and the "Makers" as well as the "Finishers" of
existence. These last are classed with the supernatural beings, personalities of nature, object
beings, etc., under one term--

a. Í-shothl-ti-mon=á-hâ-i, from í-shothl-ti-mo-na=ever recurring, immortal, and á-hâ-i=beings.

Likewise, the animals and animal gods, and sometimes even the supernatural beings, having animal
or combined animal and human personalities, are designated by one term only--

b. K'ia-pin=á-hâ-i, from k'ia-pin-na=raw, and á-hâ-i=beings. Of these, however, three divisions
are made:

(1.) K'ia-pin-á-hâ-i=game animals, specifically applied to those animals furnishing flesh to man.

(2.) K'iä-shem-á-hâ-i, from k'iä-we=water, she-man=wanting, and á-hâ-i=beings, the water animals,
specially applied not only to them, but also to all animals and animal gods supposed to be
associated sacredly with water, and through which water is supplicated.

(3.) Wé-ma-á-hâ-i, from we-ma=prey, and á-hâ-i=beings, "Prey Beings," applied alike to the
prey animals and their representatives among the gods. Finally we have the terms--

c. Ak-na=á-hâ-i, from ák-na=done, cooked, or baked, ripe, and á-hâ-i=beings, the "Done Beings,"
referring to mankind; and

d. Äsh-i-k'ia=á-hâ-i, from ä′sh-k'ia=made, finished, and á-hâ-i=beings, "Finished Beings,"
including the dead of mankind.

That very little distinction is made between these orders of life, or that they are at least
closely related, seems to be indicated by the absence from the entire language of any general
term for God. True, there are many beings in Zuñi Mythology godlike in attributes, anthropomorphic,
monstrous, and elemental, which are known as the "Finishers or makers of the paths of life,"
while the most superior of all is called the "Holder of the paths (of our lives)," Hâ′-no-o-na
wí-la-po-na. Not only these gods, but all supernatural beings, men, animals, plants, and many
objects in nature, are regarded as personal existences, and are included in the one term á-hâ-i,
from á, the plural particle signifying "all," and hâ-i, being or life,="Life," "the Beings."

THE WORSHIP OF ANIMALS.

It naturally follows from the Zuñi's philosophy of life, that his worship, while directed to
the more mysterious and remote powers of nature, or, as he regards them, existences, should
relate more especially to the animals; that, in fact, the animals, as more nearly related to
himself than are these existences, more nearly related to these existences than to himself,
should be frequently made to serve as mediators between them and him. We find this to be the
case. It follows likewise that in his inability to differentiate the objective from the subjective,
he should establish relationships between natural objects which resemble animals and the animals
themselves; that he should even ultimately imitate these animals for the sake of establishing
such relationships, using such accidental resemblances as his motives, and thus developing
a conventionality in all art connected with his worship. It follows that the special requirements
of his life or of the life of his ancestors should influence him to select as his favored mediators
or aids those animals which seemed best fitted, through peculiar characteristics and powers,
to meet these requirements. This, too, we find to be the case, for, preeminently a man of war
and the chase, like all savages, the Zuñi has chosen above all other animals those which supply
him with food and useful material, together with the animals which prey on them, giving preference
to the latter. Hence, while the name of the former class is applied preferably as a general
term to all animals and animal gods, as previously explained, the name of the latter is used
with equal preference as a term for all fetiches (Wé-ma-we), whether of the prey animals themselves
or of other animals and beings. Of course it is equally natural, since they are connected with
man both in the scale of being and in the power to supply his physical wants more nearly than
are the higher gods, that the animals or animal gods should greatly outnumber and even give
character to all others. We find that the Fetiches of the Zuñis relate mostly to the animal
gods, and principally to the prey gods.

ORIGIN OF ZUÑI FETICHISM.

This fetichism seems to have arisen from the relationships heretofore alluded to, and to be
founded on the myths which have been invented to account for those relationships. It is therefore
not surprising that those fetiches most valued by the Zuñis should be either natural concretions
(Plate I, Fig. 6), or objects in which the evident original resemblance to animals has been
only heightened by artificial means (Plate IV, Fig. 7; Plate V, Fig. 4; Plate VI, Figs. 3,6,
8; Plate VIII, Figs. 1, 3, 4, 5; Plate IX, Fig. 1).

Another highly prized class of fetiches are, on the contrary, those which are elaborately carved,
but show evidence, in their polish and dark patina, of great antiquity. They are either such
as have been found by the Zuñis about pueblos formerly inhabited by their ancestors or are
tribal possessions which have been handed down from generation to generation, until their makers,
and even the fact that they were made by any member of the tribe, have been forgotten. It is
supposed by the priests (Á-shi-wa-ni) of Zuñi that not only these, but all true fetiches, are
either actual petrifactions of the animals they represent, or were such originally. Upon this
supposition is founded the following tradition, taken, as are others to follow, from a remarkable
mythologic epic, which I have entitled the Zuñi Iliad.

THE ZUÑI ILIAD.

Although oral, this epic is of great length, metrical, rythmical even in parts, and filled
with archaic expressions nowhere to be found in the modern Zuñi. It is to be regretted that
the original diction cannot here be preserved. I have been unable, however, to record literally
even portions of this piece of aboriginal literature, as it is jealously guarded by the priests,
who are its keepers, and is publicly repeated by them only once in four years, and then only
in the presence of the priests of the various orders. As a member of one of the latter, I was
enabled to listen to one-fourth of it during the last recitation, which occurred in February,
1881. I therefore give mere abstracts, mostly furnished from memory, and greatly condensed,
but pronounced correct, so far as they go, by one of the above-mentioned priests.

THE DRYING OF THE WORLD.

In the days when all was new, men lived in the four caverns of the lower regions (Á-wi-tën
té-huthl-na-kwïn=the "Four Wombs of the World"). In the lowermost one of these men first came
to know of their existence. It was dark, and as men increased they began to crowd one another
and were very unhappy. Wise men came into existence among them, whose children supplicated
them that they should obtain deliverance from such a condition of life. For them he made also
a shield like unto his own, of magic power, and a knife of flint, the great magic war knife
(Sá-wa-ni-k'ia ä′-tchi-ë-ne). The shield (Pí-al-lan-ne) was a mere network of sacred cords
(Pí-tsau-pi-wi,=cotton) on a hoop of wood, and to the center of this net-shield was attached
the magic knife.

They listened to the supplications of the priests. They built a ladder to the roof of the first
cave and widened with their flint knife and shield the aperture through which they had entered.
Then they led men forth into the second cavern, which was larger and not quite so dark.

Ere long men multiplied and bemoaned their condition as before. Again they besought their priests,
whose supplications were once more listened to by the divine children. As before, they led
all mankind into the third world. Here it was still larger and like twilight, for the light
of the Sun himself sifted down through the opening. To these poor creatures (children) of the
dark the opening itself seemed a blazing sun.

But as time went on men multiplied even as they had before, and at last, as at first, bemoaned
their condition. Again the two children listened to their supplications, and it was then that
the children of men first saw the light of their father, the Sun.

The world had been covered with water. It was damp and unstable. Earthquakes disturbed its
surface. Strange beings rose up through it, monsters and animals of prey. As upon an island
in the middle of a great water, the children of men were led forth into the light of their
father, the Sun. It blinded and heated them so that they cried to one another in anguish, and
fell down, and covered their eyes with their bare hands and arms, for men were black then,
like the caves they came from, and naked, save for a covering at the loins of rush, like yucca
fiber, and sandals of the same, and their eyes, like the owl's, were unused to the daylight.

Eastward the two children began to lead them, toward the Home of the Sun-father.

Now, it happened that the two children, saw that the earth must be dried and hardened, for
wherever the foot touched the soil water gathered--as may be seen even in the rocks to-day--and
the monsters which rose forth from the deep devoured the children of men. Therefore they consulted
together and sought the advice of their creator, the Sun-father. By his directions, they placed
their magic shield upon the wet earth. They drew four lines a step apart upon the soft sands.
Then the older brother said to the younger, "Wilt thou, or shall I, take the lead?"

"I will take the lead," said the younger.

"Stand thou upon the last line," said the older.

And when they had laid upon the magic shield the rainbow, and across it the arrows of lightning,
toward all the quarters of the world, the younger brother took his station facing toward the
right. The older brother took his station facing toward the left. When all was ready, both
braced themselves to run. The older brother drew his arrow to the head, let fly, and struck
the rainbow and the lightning arrows midway, where they crossed. Instantly, thlu-tchu! shot
the arrows of lightning in every direction, and fire rolled over the face of the earth, and
the two gods followed the courses of their arrows of lightning.

Now that the surface of the earth was hardened, even the animals of prey, powerful and like
the fathers (gods) themselves, would have devoured the children of men; and the Two thought
it was not well that they should all be permitted to live, "for," said they, "alike will the
children of men and the children of the animals of prey multiply themselves. The animals of
prey are provided with talons and teeth; men are but poor, the finished beings of earth, therefore
the weaker."

Whenever they came across the pathway of one of these animals, were he great mountain lion
or but a mere mole, they struck him with the fire of lightning which they carried in their
magic shield. Thlu! and instantly he was shriveled and burnt into stone.

Then said they to the animals that they had thus changed to stone, "That ye may not be evil
unto men, but that ye may be a great good unto them, have we changed you into rode everlasting.
By the magic breath of prey, by the heart that shall endure forever within you, shall ye be
made to serve instead of to devour mankind."

Thus was the surface of the earth hardened and scorched and many of all kinds of beings changed
to stone. Thus, too, it happens that we find, here and there throughout the world, their forms,
sometimes large like the beings themselves, sometimes shriveled and distorted. And we often
see among the rocks the forms of many beings that live no longer, which shows us that all was
different in the "days of the new."

Of these petrifactions, which are of course mere concretions or strangely eroded rock-forms,
the Zuñis say, "Whomsoever of us may be met with the light of such great good fortune may see
(discover, find) them and should treasure them for the sake of the sacred (magic) power which
was given them in the days of the new. For the spirits of the We-ma-á-hâ-i still live, and
are pleased to receive from us the Sacred Plume (of the heart--Lä-sho-a-ni), and sacred necklace
of treasure (Thlâ-thle-a); hence they turn their ears and the ears of their brothers in our
direction that they may hearken to our prayers (sacred talks) and know our wants."

POWER OF THE FETICHES.

This tradition not only furnishes additional evidence relative to the preceding statements,
but also, taken in connection with the following belief, shows quite clearly to the native
wherein lies the power of his fetiches. It is supposed that the hearts of the great animals
of prey are infused with a spirit or medicine of magic influence over the hearts of the animals
they prey upon, or the game animals (K'ia-pin-á-hâ-i); that their breaths (the "Breath of Life"--Hâ-i-an-pi-nan-ne--and
soul are synonymous in Zuñi Mythology), derived from their hearts, and breathed upon their
prey, whether near or far, never fail to overcome them, piercing their hearts and causing their
limbs to stiffen, and the animals themselves to lose their strength. Moreover, the roar or
cry of a beast of prey is accounted its Sá-wa-ni-k'ia, or magic medicine of destruction, which,
heard by the game animals, is fatal to them, because it charms their senses, as does the breath
their hearts. Since the mountain lion, for example, lives by the blood ("life fluid") and flesh
of the game animals, and by these alone, he is endowed not only with the above powers, but
with peculiar powers in the senses of sight and smell. Moreover, these powers, as derived from
his heart, are preserved in his fetich, since his heart still lives, even though his person
be changed to stone.

PREY GODS OF THE SIX REGIONS.

THEIR ORIGIN.

Therefore it happens that the use of these fetiches is chiefly connected with the chase. To
this, however, there are some exceptions.

PÓ-SHAI-AŊ-K'IA.

In ancient times, while yet all beings belonged to one family, Pó-shai-aŋ-k'ia, the father
of our sacred bands, lived with his children (disciples) in the City of the Mists, the middle
place (center) of the Medicine societies of the world. There he was guarded on all sides by
his six warriors, Á-pi-thlan shí-wa-ni (pí-thlan=bow, shí-wa-ni=priests), the prey gods; toward
the North by the Mountain Lion (Long Tail); toward the West by the Bear (Clumsy Foot); toward
the South by the Badger (Black Mark Face); toward the East by the Wolf (Hang Tail); above by
the Eagle (White Cap); and below by the Mole. When he was about to go forth into the world,
he divided the universe into six regions, namely, the North (Pï′sh-lan-kwïn táh-na=Direction
of the Swept or Barren place); the West (K'iä′-li-shi-ïn-kwïn táh-na=Direction of the Home
of the Waters); the South (Á-la-ho-ïn-kwïn táh-na=Direction of the Place of the Beautiful Bed);
the East (Té-lu-a-ïn-kwïn táh-na=Direction of the Home of Day); the Upper Regions (Í-ya-ma-ïn-kwïn
táh-na=Direction of the Home of the High); and the Lower Regions (Ma-ne-lam-ïn-kwïn táh-na=Direction
of the Home of the Low)."

All, save the first of these terms, are archaic. The modern names for the West, South, East,
Upper and Lower Regions signifying respectively--"The Place of Evening," "The Place of the
Salt Lake" (Las Salinas), "The Place whence comes the Day," "The Above," and "The Below."

In the center of the great sea of each of these regions stood a very ancient sacred place (Té-thlä-shi-na-kwïn),
a great mountain peak. In the North was the Mountain Yellow, in the West the Mountain Blue,
in the South the Mountain Red, in the East the Mountain White, above the Mountain All-color,
and below the Mountain Black.

We do not fail to see in this clear reference to the natural colors of the regions referred
to--to the barren north and its auroral hues, the west with its blue Pacific, the rosy south,
the white daylight of the east, the many hues of the clouded sky, and the black darkness of
the "caves and holes of earth." Indeed, these colors are used in the pictographs and in all
the mythic symbolism of the Zuñis, to indicate the directions or regions respectively referred
to as connected with them.

Then said Pó-shai-aŋ-k'ia to the Mountain Lion (Plate II, Fig. 1), "Long Tail, thou art stout
of heart and strong of will. Therefore give I unto thee and unto thy children forever the mastership
of the gods of prey, and the guardianship of the great Northern World (for thy coat is of yellow),
that thou guard from that quarter the coming of evil upon my children of men, that thou receive
in that quarter their messages to me, that thou become the father in the North of the sacred
medicine orders all, that thou become a Maker of the Paths (of men's lives)."

Thither went the Mountain Lion. Then said Pó-shai-aŋ-k'ia to the Bear (Plate II, Fig. 2), "Black
Bear, thou art stout of heart and strong of will.

Thus it may be seen that all these animals are supposed to possess not only the guardianship
of the six regions, but also the mastership, not merely geographic, but of the medicine powers,
etc., which are supposed to emanate from them; that they are the mediators between men and
Pó-shai-aŋ-ki'a, and conversely, between the latter and men.

As further illustrative of this relationship it may not be amiss to add that, aside from representing
the wishes of men to Pó-shai-aŋ-ki'a, by means of the spirits of the prayer plumes, which,
it is supposed, the prey gods take into his presence, and which are, as it were, memoranda
(like quippus) to him and other high gods of the prayers of men, they are also made to bear
messages to men from him and his associated gods.

For instance, it is believed that any member of the medicine orders who neglects his religious
duties as such is rendered liable to punishment (Hä′-ti-a-k'ia-na-k'ia=reprehension) by Pó-shai-aŋ-ki'a
through some one of his warriors.

As illustrative of this, the story of an adventure of Mí-tsi, an Indian who "still lives, but
limps," is told by the priests with great emphasis to any backsliding member.

MÍ-TSI.

Mí-tsi was long a faithful member of the Little Fire order (Ma-ke-tsá-na-kwe), but he grew
careless, neglected his sacrifices, and resigned his rank as "Keeper of the Medicines," from
mere laziness. In vain his fathers warned him. He only grew hot with anger. One day Mí-tsi
went up on the mesas to cut corral posts. He sat down to eat his dinner. A great black bear
walked out of the thicket near at hand and leisurely approached him. Mí-tsi dropped his dinner
and climbed a neighboring little dead pine tree. The bear followed him and climbed it, too.
Mí-tsi began to have sad thoughts of the words of his fathers.

"Alas," he cried, "pity me, my father from the West-land!" In vain he promised to be a good
Ma-ke-tsá-na-kwe. Had not Pó-shai-aŋ-ki'a commanded?

So the black bear seized him by the foot and pulled until Mí-tsi screamed from pain; but, cling
as he would to the tree, the bear pulled him to the ground. Then he lay down on Mí-tsi and
pressed the wind out of him so that he forgot. The black bear started to go; but eyed Mí-tsi.
Mí-tsi kicked. Black bear came and pressed his wind out again. It hurt Mí-tsi, and he said
to himself, "Oh dear me! what shall I do? The father thinks I am not punished enough." So he
kept very still. Black bear started again, then stopped and looked at Mí-tsi, started and stopped
again, growled and moved off, for Mí-tsi kept very still. Then the black bear went slowly away,
looking at Mí-tsi all the while, until he passed a little knoll. Mí-tsi crawled away and hid
under a log. Then, when he thought himself man enough, he started for Zuñi. He was long sick,
for the black bear had eaten his foot.

THEIR WORSHIP.

The prey gods, through their relationship to Pó-shai-aŋ-k'ia, as "Makers of the Paths of Life,"
are given high rank among the gods. With this belief, their fetiches are held "as in captivity"
by the priests of the various medicine orders, and greatly venerated by them as mediators between
themselves and the animals they represent. In this character they are exhorted with elaborate
prayers, rituals, and ceremonials. Grand sacrifices of plumed and painted prayer-sticks (Téthl-na-we)
are made annually by the "Prey Brother Priesthood" (Wé-ma á-pa-pa á-shi-wa-ni) of these medicine
societies, and at the full moon of each month lesser sacrifices of the same kind by the male
members of the "Prey gentes" (Wé-ma á-no-ti-we) of the tribe.

PREY GODS OF THE HUNT.

THEIR RELATION TO THE OTHERS.

The fetich worship of the Zuñis naturally reaches its highest and most interesting development
in its relationship to the chase, for the We-ma-á-hâ-i are considered par excellence the gods
of the hunt. Of this class of fetiches, the special priests are the members of the "Great Coyote
People" (Sá-ni-a-k'ia-kwe, or the Hunting Order), their keepers, the chosen members of the
Eagle and Coyote gentes and of the Prey Brother priesthood.

The fetiches in question (Plate III) represent, with two exceptions, the same species of prey
animals as those supposed to guard the six regions. These exceptions are, the Coyote (Sús-ki,
Plate III, Fig. 2), which replaces the Black Bear of the West, and the Wild Cat (Té-pi, Plate
III, Fig. 3), which takes the place of the Badger of the South.

In the prayer-songs of the Sá-ni-a-kía-kwe, the names of all of these prey gods are, with two
exceptions, given in the language of the Rio Grande Indians. This is probably one of the many
devices for securing greater secrecy, and rendering the ceremonials of the Hunter Society mysterious
to other than members. The exceptions are, the Coyote, or Hunter god of the West, known by
the archaic name of Thlä′-k'iä-tchu, instead of by its ordinary name of Sús-ki, and the Prey
Mole or god of the Lower regions (Plate III, Fig. 5), which is named Maí-tu-pu, also archaic,
instead of K'iä′-lu-tsi. Yet in most of the prayer and ritualistic recitals of this order all
of these gods are spoken of by the names which distinguish them in the other orders of the tribe.

THEIR ORIGIN.

While all the prey gods of the hunt are supposed to have functions differing both from those
of the six regions and those of the Priesthood of the Bow, spoken of further on, they are yet
referred, like those of the first class, to special divisions of the world. In explanation
of this, however, quite another myth is given. This myth, like the first, is derived from the
epic before referred to, and occurs in the latter third of the long recital, where it pictures
the tribes of the Zuñis, under the guidance of the Two Children, and the Kâ′-kâ at Kó-thlu-ël-lon-ne,
now a marsh-bordered lagune situated on the eastern shore of the Colorado Chiquito, about fifteen
miles north and west from the pueblo of San Juan, Arizona, and nearly opposite the mouth of
the Rio Concho. This lagune is probably formed in the basin or crater of some extinct geyser
or volcanic spring, as the two high and wonderfully similar mountains on either side are identical
in formation with those in which occur the cave-craters farther south on the same river. It
has, however, been largely filled in by the débris brought down by the Zuñi River, which here
joins the Colorado Chiquito. Kó-thlu-ël-lon signifies the "standing place (city) of the Kâ′-kâ"
(from Kâ=a contraction of Kâ′-kâ, the sacred dance, and thlu-ël-lon=standing place).

THE DISTRIBUTION OF THE ANIMALS.

Men began their journey from the Red River, and the Kâ′-kâ still lived, as it does now, at
Kó-thlu-ël-lon-ne, when the wonderful Snail People (not snails, as may be inferred, but a tribe
of that name), who lived in the "Place of the Snails" (K'iá-ma-k'ia-kwïn), far south of where
Zuñi now is, caused, by means of their magic power, all the game animals in the whole world
round about to gather together in the great forked cañon-valley under their town, and there
to be hidden.

The walls of this cañon were high and insurmountable, and the whole valley although large was
filled full of the game animals, so that their feet rumbled and rattled together like the sound
of distant thunder, and their horns crackled like the sound of a storm in a dry forest. All
round about the cañon these passing wonderful Snail People made a road (line) of magic medicine
and sacred meal, which road, even as a corral, no game animal, even though great Elk or strong
Buck Deer, could pass.

Now, it rained many days, and thus the tracks of all these animals tending thither were washed
away. Nowhere could the Kâ′-kâ or the children of men, although they hunted day after day over
the plains and mountains, on the mesas and along the cañon-valleys, find prey or trace of prey.

Thus it happened that after many days they grew hungry, almost famished. Even the great strong
Shá'-la-k'o and the swift Sá-la-mo-pi-a walked zigzag in their trails, from the weakness of
hunger. At first the mighty Kâ′-kâ and men alike were compelled to eat the bones they had before
cast away, and at last to devour the soles of their moccasins and even the deer-tail ornaments
of their dresses for want of the flesh of K'iap-in-á-hâ-i, Game animals.

Still, day after day, though weak and disheartened, men and the Kâ′-kâ sought game in the mountains.
At last a great Elk was given liberty. His sides shook with tallow, his dewlap hung like a
bag, so fleshy was it, his horns spread out like branches of a dead tree, and his crackling
hoofs cut the sands and even the rocks as he ran westward. He circled far off toward the Red
River, passed through the Round Valley, and into the northern cañons. The Shá'-la-k'o was out
hunting. He espied the deep tracks of the elk and fleetly followed him. Passing swift and strong
was he, though weak from hunger, and ere long he came in sight of the great Elk. The sight
gladdened and strengthened him; but alas! the Elk kept his distance as he turned again toward
the hiding-place of his brother animals. On and on the Sha'-la-k'o followed him, until he came
to the edge of a great cañon, and peering over the brink discovered the hiding-place of all
the game animals of the world.

"Aha! so here you all are," said he. "I'll hasten back to my father, Pá-u-ti-wa,[1] who hungers
for flesh, alas! and grows weak." And like the wind the Shá'-la-k'o returned to Kó-thlu-ël-lon-ne.
Entering, he informed the Kâ′-kâ, and word was sent out by the swift Sá-la-mo-pi-a[2] to all
the We-ma-á-hâ-i for counsel and assistance, for the We-ma-á-hâ-i were now the Fathers of men
and the Kâ′-kâ . The Mountain Lion, the Coyote, the Wild Cat, the Wolf, the Eagle, the Falcon,
the Ground Owl, and the Mole were summoned, all hungry and lean, as were the Kâ'-kâ and the
children of men, from want of the flesh of the game animals. Nevertheless, they were anxious
for the hunt and moved themselves quickly among one another in their anxiety. Then the passing
swift runners, the Sá-la-mo-pi-a, of all colors, the yellow, the blue, the red, the white,
the many colored, and the black, were summoned to accompany the We-ma-á-hâ-i to the cañon-valley
of the Snail People. Well they knew that passing wonderful were the Snail People, and that
no easy matter would it be to overcome their medicine and their magic. But they hastened forth
until they came near to the cañon. Then the Shá'-la-k'o,[3] who guided them, gave directions
that they should make themselves ready for the hunt.

When all were prepared, he opened by his sacred power the magic corral on the northern side,
and forth rushed a great buck Deer.

"Long Tail, the corral has been opened for thee. Forth comes thy game, seize him!" With great
leaps the Mountain Lion overtook and threw the Deer to the ground, and fastened his teeth in
his throat.

The corral was opened on the western side. Forth rushed a Mountain Sheep.

"Coyote, the corral has been opened for thee. Forth comes thy game, seize him!" The Coyote
dashed swiftly forward. The Mountain Sheep dodged him and ran off toward the west. The Coyote
crazily ran about yelping and barking after his game, but the Mountain Sheep bounded from rock
to rock and was soon far away. Still the Coyote rushed crazily about, until the Mountain Lion
commanded him to be quiet. But the Coyote smelled the blood of the Deer and was beside himself
with hunger. Then the Mountain Lion said to him disdainfully, Satisfy thy hunger on the blood
that I have spilled, for to-day thou hast missed thy game; and thus ever will thy descendants
like thee blunder in the chase. As thou this day satisfiest thy hunger, so also by the blood
that the hunter spills or the flesh that he throws away shall thy descendants forever have being."

[Footnote 1: The chief god of the Kâ′-kâ, now represented by masks, and the richest costuming
known to the Zuñis, which are worn during the winter ceremonials of the tribe.]

[Footnote 2: The Sá-la-mo-pi-a are monsters with round heads, long snouts, huge feathered necks,
and human bodies. They are supposed to live beneath the waters, to come forth or enter snout
foremost. They also play an important part in the Kâ'-kâ or sacred dances of winter.]

[Footnote 3: Monster human bird forms, the warrior chiefs of Pá-u-ti-wa, the representatives
of which visit Zuñi, from their supposed western homes in certain springs, each New Year. They
are more than twelve feet high, and are carried swiftly about by persons concealed under their
dresses.]

The corral was opened on the southern side. An Antelope sprang forth. With bounds less strong
than those of the Mountain Lion, but nimbler, the Wild Cat seized him and threw him to the ground.

The corral was opened on the eastern side. Forth ran the Ó-ho-li (or albino antelope). The
Wolf seized and threw him. The Jack Rabbit was let out. The Eagle poised himself for a moment,
then swooped upon him. The Cotton Tail came forth. The Prey Mole waited in his hole and seized
him; the Wood Rat, and the Falcon made him his prey; the Mouse, and the Ground Owl quickly
caught him.

While the We-ma-á-hâ-i were thus satisfying their hunger, the game animals began to escape
through the breaks in the corral. Forth through the northern door rushed the Buffalo, the great
Elk, and the Deer, and toward the north the Mountain Lion, and the yellow Sá-la-mo-pi-a swiftly
followed and herded them, to the world where stands the yellow mountain, below the great northern
ocean.

Out through the western gap rushed the Mountain Sheep, herded and driven by the Coyote and
the blue Sá-la-mo-pi-a, toward the great western ocean, where stands the ancient blue mountain.

Out through the southern gap rushed the Antelope, herded and driven by the Wild Cat and the
red Sá-la-mo-pi-a, toward the great land of summer, where stands the ancient red mountain.

Out through the eastern gap rushed the Ó-ho-li, herded and driven by the Wolf and the white
Sá-la-mo-pi-a, toward where "they say" is the eastern ocean, the "Ocean of day", wherein stands
the ancient white mountain.

Forth rushed in all directions the Jack Rabbit, the Cotton Tail, the Bats, and the Mice, and
the Eagle, the Falcon, and the Ground Owl circled high above, toward the great "Sky ocean,"
above which stands the ancient mountain of many colors, and they drove them over all the earth,
that from their homes in the air they could watch them in all places; and the Sá-la-mo-pi-a
of many colors rose and assisted them.

Into the earth burrowed the Rabbits, the Bats, and the Mice, from the sight of the Eagle, the
Falcon, and the Ground Owl, but the Prey Mole and the black Sá-la-mo-pi-a thither followed
them toward the four caverns (wombs) of earth, beneath which stands the ancient black mountain.

Then the earth and winds were filled with rumbling from the feet of the departing animals,
and the Snail People saw that their game was escaping; hence the world was filled with the
wars of the Kâ′-kâ, the Snail People, and the children of men.

Thus were let loose the game animals of the world. Hence the Buffalo, the Great Elk, and the
largest Deer are found mostly in the north, where they are ever pursued by the great Mountain
Lion; but with them escaped other animals, and so not alone in the north are the Buffalo, the
Great Elk, and the Deer found.

Among the mountains and the cañons of the west are found the Mountain Sheep, pursued by the
Coyote; but with them escaped many other animals; hence not alone in the west are the Mountain
Sheep found.

Toward the south escaped the Antelopes, pursued by the Wild Cat. Yet with them escaped many
other animals; hence not alone in the south are the Antelopes found.

Toward the east escaped the Ó-ho-li, pursued by the Wolf; but with them escaped many other
animals; hence not alone in the east are the Ó-ho-li-we found.

Forth in all directions escaped the Jack Rabbits, Cotton Tails, Rats, and Mice; hence over
all the earth are they found. Above them in the skies circle the Eagle, the Falcon, and the
Ground Owl; yet into the earth escaped many of them, followed by the Prey Mole; hence beneath
the earth burrow many.

Thus, also, it came to be that the Yellow Mountain Lion is the master Prey Being of the north,
but his younger brothers, the blue, the red, the white, the spotted, and the black Mountain
Lions wander over the other regions of earth. Does not the spotted Mountain Lion (evidently
the Ocelot) live among the high mountains of the south?

Thus, too, was it with the Coyote, who is the master of the West, but whose younger brothers
wander over all the regions; and thus, too, with the Wild Cat and the Wolf.

In this tradition there is an attempt, not only to explain the special distribution throughout
the six regions, of the Prey animals and their prey, but also to account for the occurrence
of animals in regions other than those to which, according to this classification, they properly
belong.

THEIR VARIETIES.

We find, therefore, that each one of the six species of Prey animals is again divided into
six varieties, according to color, which determines the location of each variety in that one
or other of the regions with which its color agrees, yet it is supposed to owe allegiance to
its representative, whatsoever this may be or wheresoever placed. For instance, the Mountain
Lion is primarily god of the North, but he is supposed to have a representative (younger brother)
in the West (the blue Mountain Lion), another in the South (the Red), in the East (the White),
in the Upper regions (the Spotted), and in the Lower regions (the black Mountain Lion).

Hence, also, there are six varieties of the fetich representing any one of these divisions,
the variety being determined by the color, as expressed either by the material of which the
fetich is formed, or the pigment with which it is painted, or otherwise, as, for example, by
inlaying. (Plate III, Fig. 4, and Plate VII, Fig. 2.)

THE MOUNTAIN LION--HUNTER GOD OF THE NORTH.

According to this classification, which is native, the fetiches of the Mountain Lions are represented
on Plate IV. They are invariably distinguished by the tail, which is represented very long,
and laid lengthwise of the back from the rump nearly or quite to the shoulders, as well as
by the ears, which are quite as uniformly rounded and not prominent.

The fetich of the yellow Mountain Lion (Hâ′k-ti tä′sh-a-na thlúp-tsi-na), or God of the North
(Plate IV, Fig. 1), is of yellow limestone.[1] It has been smoothly carved, and is evidently
of great antiquity, as shown by its polish and patina, the latter partly of blood. The anus
and eyes are quite marked holes made by drilling. An arrow-point of flint is bound to the back
with cordage of cotton, which latter, however, from its newness, seems to have been recently added.

The fetich of the blue Mountain Lion, of the West (Hâ′k-ti tä′sh-a-na thlí-a-na), is represented
in Plate IV, Fig. 2. The original is composed of finely veined azurite or carbonate of copper,
which, although specked with harder serpentinous nodules, is almost entirely blue. It has been
carefully finished, and the ears, eyes, nostrils, mouth, tail, anus, and legs are clearly cut.

The fetich of the white Mountain Lion, of the East (Hâ′k-ti tä′sh-a-na k'ó-ha-na), is represented
by several specimens, two of which are reproduced in Plate IV, Figs. 3 and 4. The former is
very small and composed of compact white limestone, the details being pronounced, and the whole
specimen finished with more than usual elaboration. The latter is unusually large, of compact
gypsum or alabaster, and quite carefully carved. The eyes have been inlaid with turkoises,
and there is cut around its neck a groove by which the beads of shell, coral, &c., were originally
fastened. A large arrow-head of chalcedony has been bound with cords of cotton flatwise along
one side of the body.

The only fetich representing the red Mountain Lion, of the South (Hâ′k-ti tä′sh-a-na á-ho-na),
in the collection was too imperfect for reproduction.

[Footnote 1: I am indebted to Mr. S.F. Emmons, of the Geological Survey, for assisting me to
determine approximately the mineralogical character of these specimens.]

The fetich of the spotted or many-colored Mountain Lion (Hâ′k-ti tä′sh-a-na sú-pa-no-pa or
í-to-pa-nah-na-na), of the Upper regions, is also represented by two specimens (Plate IV, Figs.
5 and 6), both of fibrous aragonite in alternating thin and thick laminæ, or bands of grayish
yellow, white, and blue. Fig. 5 is by far the more elaborate of the two, and is, indeed, the
most perfect fetich in the collection. The legs, ears, eyes, nostrils, mouth, tail, anus, and
genital organs (of the male) are carefully carved, the eyes being further elaborated by mosaics
of minute turkoises. To the right side of the body, "over the heart," is bound with blood-blackened
cotton cords a delicate flint arrow-point, together with white shell and coral beads, and,
at the breast, a small triangular figure of an arrow in haliotus, or abalone.

The fetich of the black Mountain Lion (Hâ′k-ti tä′sh-a-na shí-k'ia-na) (Pl. IV, Fig. 7) is
of gypsum, or white limestone, but has been painted black by pigment, traces of which are still
lodged on portions of its surface.

THE COYOTE--HUNTER GOD OF THE WEST.

The fetiches of the Coyote, or God of the West, and his younger brothers, represented on Plate
V, are called Téthl-po-k'ia, an archaic form of the modern word Sús-k'i wé-ma-we (Coyote fetiches),
from téthl-nan,=a sacred prayer-plume, and pó-an,=an object or locality on or toward which
anything is placed, a depository, and k'ia=the active participle. They are usually distinguished
by horizontal or slightly drooping tails, pointed or small snouts, and erect ears. Although
the Coyote of the West is regarded as the master of the Coyotes of the other five regions,
yet, in the prayers, songs, and recitations of the Sá-ni-a-k'ia-kwe, and Prey Brother Priesthood,
the Coyote of the North is mentioned first. I therefore preserve the same sequence observed
in describing the Mountain Lion fetiches.

The fetich of the yellow Coyote (Sús-k'i thlúp-tsi-na), of the North, is represented in Plate
V, Fig. 1. The original is of compact white limestone stained yellow. The attitude is that
of a coyote about to pursue his prey (lá-hi-na í-mo-na), which has reference to the intemperate
haste on the part of this animal, which usually, as in the foregoing tradition, results in failure.

The fetich of the blue Coyote, of the West (Sús-k'i ló-k'ia-na--signifying in reality blue
gray, the color of the coyote, instead of blue=thlí-a-na), is shown, in Plate V, Fig. 2. This
fetich is also of compact white limestone, of a yellowish gray color, although traces of blue
paint and large turkois eyes indicate that it was intended, like Plate III, Fig. 3, to represent
the God of the West.

The fetich of the red Coyote (Sús-k'i á-ho-na), of the South, is represented by Plate V, Fig.
4, which, although of white semi-translucent calcite, has been deeply stained with red paint.

Two examples of the fetich of the white Coyote (Sús-k'i k'ó-ha-na), of the East, are shown
in Plate V, Figs. 4 and 5. They are both of compact white limestone. The first is evidently
a natural fragment, the feet being but slightly indicated by grinding, the mouth by a deep
cut straight across the snout, and the eyes by deeply drilled depressions, the deep groove
around, the neck being designed merely to receive the necklace. The second, however, is more
elaborate, the pointed chin, horizontal tail, and pricked-up ears being distinctly carved,
and yet in form the specimen resembles more a weasel than a coyote.

The fetich of the many-colored Coyote (Sús-k'i í-to-pa-nah-na-na), of the Upper regions, is
reproduced in Plate V, Fig. 6, which represents the male and female together, the latter being
indicated merely by the smaller size and the shorter tail. They are both of aragonite. This
conjoined form of the male and female fetiches is rare, and is significant of other powers
than those of the hunt.

The black Coyote (Sús-k'i shí-k'ia-na), of the Lower regions, is represented by Plate V, Fig.
7, the original of which is of compact white limestone or yellowish-gray marble, and shows
traces of black paint or staining.

THE WILD-CAT--HUNTER GOD OF THE SOUTH.

The fetiches of the Wild Cat, the principal of which is God of the South, are represented on
Plate VI. They are characterized by short horizontal tails and in most cases by vertical faces
and short ears, less erect than in the fetiches of the Coyote.

Plate VI, Fig. 1, represents the fetich of the yellow Wild Cat (Té-pi thlúp-tsi-na) of the
North. Although of yellow limestone, it is stained nearly black with blood. A long, clearly-chipped
arrow-point of chalcedony is bound with blood-stained cotton cordage along the right side of
the figure, and a necklace of white shell beads (Kó-ha-kwa), with one of black stone (Kewí-na-kwa)
among them, encircles the neck.

Plate VI, Fig. 2, represents the fetich of the blue Wild Cat (Té-pi thlí-a-na), of the West.
It is formed from basaltic clay of a grayish-blue color, and is furnished with an arrow-point
of jasper (jasp vernis), upon which, is laid a small fragment of turkois, both secured to the
back of the specimen with sinew taken from the animal represented. Plate VI, Fig. 3, likewise
represents the fetich of the Wild Cat of the West. It is a fragment from a thin vein of malachite
and azurite, or green and blue carbonate of copper, and has been but little changed from its
original condition.

Plate VI, Fig. 4, represents the red Wild Cat (Té-pi á-ho-na), of the South. Although formed
from gypsum or yellow limestone, its color has been changed by the application of paint. It
is supplied with the usual necklace and arrow-point of the perfect fetich, secured by bands
of sinew and cotton.

Both Figs. 5 and 6 of Plate VI represent the fetich of the white Wild Cat (Té pi k'ó-ha-na),
of the East, and are of compact white limestone carefully fashioned and polished, the one to
represent the perfect animal, the other the fœtus. This specimen, like Plate V, Fig. 6, has
a significance other than that of a mere fetich of the chase, a significance connected with
the Phallic worship of the Zuñis, on which subject I hope ere many years to produce interesting
evidence.

Plate VI, Fig. 7, represents the fetich of the many-colored Wild Cat (Té-pi sú-pa-no-pa), of
the Upper regions, which is made of basaltic clay, stained black with pitch and pigment, and
furnished with a flake of flint and a small fragment of chrysocolla, both of which are attached
to the back of the figure with a binding of sinew.

Plate VI, Fig. 8, represents, according to the Zuñis, a very ancient and valued fetich of the
black Wild Cat (Té-pi shí-k'ia-na), of the Lower regions. It is little more than a concretion
of compact basaltic rock, with slight traces of art. Its natural form, however, is suggestive
of an animal. Long use has polished its originally black surface to the hue of lustrous jet.

THE WOLF--HUNTER GOD OF THE EAST.

The fetiches of the Wolf, God of the East, and of his younger brothers (Iú-na-wi-ko wé-ma-we)
are represented on Plate VII. They are characterized by erect attitudes, usually oblique faces,
pricked-up ears, and "hanging tails."

Plate VII, Fig. 1, is a representation of the fetich of the yellow Wolf (Iú-na-wi-ko thlúp-tsi-na),
of the North. It is of yellow indurated clay-stone. In this example the legs are much longer
than in most specimens, for nearly all these figures are either natural fragments or concretions
slightly improved on by art, or are figures which have been suggested by and derived from such
fragments or concretions. Moreover, the ceremonials to be described further on require that
they should be "able to stand alone"; therefore they are usually furnished with only rudimentary
legs. The tail is only indicated, while in nearly all other Wolf fetiches it is clearly cut
down the rump, nearly to the gambol joint.

Plate VII, Fig. 2, represents a fetich of the blue Wolf (Iú-na-wi-ko thlí-a-na), of the West.
It is of gray sandstone, stained first red, then blue, the latter color being further indicated
by settings of green turkois on either side and along the back, as well as in the eyes.

Plate VII, Fig. 3, represents the fetich of the red Wolf (Iú-na-wi-ko á-ho-na), of the South.
It is but crudely formed from a fragment of siliceous limestone, the feet, ears, and tail being
represented only by mere protuberances. Although the material is naturally of a yellowish-gray
color, it has been stained red.

Plate VII, Fig. 4, represents the fetich of the white Wolf (Iú-na-wi-ko k'ó-ha-na), of the
East. It is of very white, compact limestone. The hanging tail, erect ears, attitude, &c.,
are better shown in this than perhaps in any other specimen of the class in the collection.
It has, however, been broken through the body and mended with black pitch.

Plate VII, Fig. 5, represents the fetich, of the many-colored Wolf (Iú-na-wi-ko í-to-pa-nah-na-na),
of the Upper regions. The original is of fine-grained sandstone of a gray color, stained in
some places faintly with red and other tints. The mouth, eyes, ear tips, and tail have been
touched with black to make them appear more prominent.

Plate VII, Fig. 6, represents the fetich of the black Wolf (Iú-na-wi-ko shí-k'ia-na), of the
Lower regions. Although uncommonly large and greatly resembling in form the bear, it possesses
the oblique face, upright ears, hanging tail, and other accepted characteristics of the Wolf.

THE EAGLE--HUNTER GOD OF THE UPPER REGIONS.

The fetiches of the Eagle, God of the Upper regions, and his younger brothers of the other
regions (K'iä′-k'iä-li wé-ma-we) are represented on Plate VIII. They are characterized merely
by rude bird forms, with wings either naturally or very conventionally carved (Figs. 3 and
6). Further details are rarely attempted, from the fact that all the other principal prey animals
are quadrupeds, and the simple suggestion of the bird form is sufficient to identify the eagle
among any of them.

Plate VIII, Fig. 1, represents the fetich of the yellow Eagle (K'iä′-k'iä-li thlúp-tsi-na),
of the Northern skies. It consists merely of the head and shoulders, very rudely formed of
white limestone and painted with yellow ocher. This specimen is doubtless a natural fragment
very little altered by art.

Plate VIII, Fig. 2, represents the fetich of the blue Eagle (K'iä′k'iä-li ló-k'ia-na), of the
Western skies. It is quite elaborately carved, supplied with a pedestal, and pierced through
the body to facilitate suspension. For during ceremonials, to be described further on, the
fetiches of the Eagle are usually suspended, although sometimes, like those of the quadrupeds,
they are placed on the floor, as indicated by the pedestal furnished to this specimen. Although
of compact white limestone, this fetich is made to represent the blue Eagle by means of turkois
eyes and a green stain over the body. A small pink chalcedony arrow-point is attached to the
back between the wings by means of a single sinew band passed around the tips of the latter
and the tail and under the wings over the shoulders.

Plate VIII, Fig. 3, represents the fetich of the red Eagle (K'iä′-k'iä-li á-ho-na), of the
Southern skies. Like Fig. 42, this is doubtless a nearly natural fragment of very fine-grained
red sandstone, the wings being indicated by deep lines which cross over the back, and the rump
grooved to receive the cord with which to secure to the back an arrow-point. The breast is
perforated.

Plate VIII, Fig. 4, is a nearly natural fragment of compact white limestone, representing the
white Eagle (K'iä′-k'iä-li k'ó-ha-na), of the Eastern skies. No artificial details, save the
eyes, which are faintly indicated, have been attempted on this specimen.

Plate VIII, Fig. 5, represents, in compact yellow limestone, the speckled Eagle (K'iä′-k'iä-li
sú-tchu-tchon-ne) of the Upper regions, the drab color of the body being varied by fragments
of pure turkois inserted into the eyes, breast, and back. A notch in the top and front of the
head probably indicates that the specimen was once supplied with a beak, either of turkois
or of white shell. It is perforated lengthwise through the breast.

Plate VIII, Fig. 6, is a representation of a thoroughly typical conventional fetich of the
black Eagle (K'iä′-k'iä-li kwín-ne) of the Lower regions. It is of calcite, stained lustrous
black. A cotton cord around the neck supplies the place of the original "necklace."

THE MOLE--HUNTER GOD OF THE LOWER REGIONS.

The fetiches of the Mole, or God of the Lower regions (K'iä′-lu-tsi wé-ma-we, in the sacred
orders; Maí-tu-pu wé-ma-we, in the order of the Hunt), are represented in the collection by
only two specimens, Plate II, Fig. 6, and Plate IX, Fig. 1. The figure of a third specimen,
taken from one of my sketches of the original in Zuñi, is given on Plate III, Fig. 5.

These fetiches being unpopular, because considered less powerful than those of the larger gods
of prey, are very rare, and are either rude concretions with no definite form (Plate II, Fig.
6), or almost equally rude examples of art, as in Plate IX, Fig. 1, which represents the fetich
of the white Mole (Maí-tu-pu kó-ha-na) of the Eastern Lower regions. It consists merely of
a natural slab of fine white limestone.

Nevertheless, value is sometimes attached to the Mole, from the fact that it is able by burrowing
to lay traps for the largest game of earth, which it is supposed to do consciously. For this
reason it is sometimes represented with surprising fidelity, as in Plate III, Fig. 5.

THE GROUND OWL AND THE FALCON.

The fetiches of the Ground Owl (the Prairie Dog variety--Thlá-po-po-ke'-a' wé-ma-we) of all
regions, are still more rarely represented and even less prized than those of the Mole. The
only example in the collection is reproduced in Plate IX, Fig. 2. The original is quite carefully
formed of soft white limestone, and is perforated to facilitate suspension.

The Falcon fetiches (Pí-pi wé-ma-we) are included in the Eagle species, as they are called
the younger brothers of the Eagle, and supply the place of the red Eagle which variety is met
with very rarely.

THEIR RELATIVE VALUES.

The relative value of these varieties of fetiches depends largely upon the rank of the Animal
god they represent. For instance, the Mountain Lion is not only master of the North, which
takes precedence over all the other "ancient sacred spaces" (Té-thlä-shi-na-we) or regions,
but is also the master of all the other Prey gods, if not of all other terrestrial animals.
Notwithstanding the fact that the Coyote, in the Order of the Hunt (the Coyote society or the
Sá-ni-a-k'ia-kwe), is given for traditional reasons higher sacred rank than the Mountain Lion,
he is, as a Prey Being, one degree lower, being god of the West, which follows the North, in
order of importance. Hence we find the Mountain Lion and Coyote fetiches far more prized than
any of the others, and correspondingly more numerous. The Coyote in rank is younger brother
of the Mountain Lion, just as the Wild Cat is younger brother of the Coyote, the Wolf of the
Wild Cat, and so on to the Mole, and less important Ground Owl. In relationship by blood, however,
the yellow Mountain Lion is accounted older brother of the blue, red, white, spotted, and black
Mountain Lions; the blue Coyote, older brother of the red, white, yellow, mottled or spotted,
and black Coyotes. So the Wild Cat of the South is regarded as the older brother of the Wild
Cats of all the other five regions. And thus it is respectively with, the Wolf, the Eagle,
and the Mole. We find, therefore, that in the North all the gods of Prey are represented, as
well as the Mountain Lion, only they are yellow. In the West all are represented, as well as
the Coyote, only they are blue; and thus throughout the remaining four regions.

The Mountain Lion is further believed to be the special hunter of the Elk, Deer, and Bison
(no longer an inhabitant of New Mexico). His fetich is, therefore, preferred by the hunter
of these animals. So, also, is the fetich of the Coyote preferred by the hunter of the Mountain
Sheep; that of the Wild Cat, by the hunter of the Antelope; that of the Wolf, by the hunter
of the rare and highly-valued Ó-ho-li; those of the Eagle and Falcon, by the hunter of Rabbits;
and that of the Mole, by the hunter of other small game.

The exception to this rule is individual, and founded upon the belief that any one of the gods
of Prey hunts to some extent the special game of all the other gods of Prey. Hence, any person
who may discover either a concretion or natural object or an ancient fetich calling to mind
or representing any one of the Prey gods will regard it as his special fetich, and almost invariably
prefer it, since he believes it to have been "meted to" him (ań-ik-tchi-a-k'ia) by the gods.

THEIR CUSTODIAN.

Although these fetiches are thus often individual property, members of the Sá-ni-a-k'ia-kwe,
and of the Eagle and Coyote gentes, as well as priests included in the Prey God Brotherhood,
are required to deposit their fetiches, when not in use, with the "Keeper of the Medicine of
the Deer" (Nál-e-ton í-lo-na), who is usually, if not always, the head member of the Eagle gens.

It rests with these memberships and these alone to perfect the fetiches when found, and to
carry on at stated intervals the ceremonials and worship connected with them.

When not in use, either for such ceremonials or for the hunt, these tribal fetiches are kept
in a very ancient vessel of wicker-work, in the House of the Deer Medicine (Nál-e-ton ín-kwïn),
which is usually the dwelling place of the keeper.

THE RITES OF THEIR WORSHIP.

THE DAY OF THE COUNCIL OF THE FETICHES.

The principal ceremonial connected with the worship of the Prey Beings takes place either a
little before or after the winter solstice or national New Year.

This is due to the fact that many of the members of the above-mentioned associations also belong
to other societies, and are required on the exact night of the New Year to perform other religious
duties than those connected with the fetich worship. Hence, the fetiches or gods of prey have
their special New Year's day, called Wé-ma-a-wa ú-pu-k'ia té-wa-ne ("The day of the council
of the fetiches").

On this occasion is held the grand council of the fetiches. They are all taken from their place
of deposit and arranged, according to species and color, in front of a symbolic slat altar
on the floor of the council chamber in a way I have attempted to indicate, as far as possible,
by the arrangement of the figures on the plates, the quadrupeds being placed upright, while
the Eagles and other winged fetiches are suspended from the rafters by means of cotton cords.
Busily engaged in observing other ceremonials and debarred from actual entrance, until my recent
initiation into the Priesthood of the Bow, I have unfortunately never witnessed any part of
this ceremonial save by stealth, and cannot describe it as a whole. I reserve the right, therefore,
to correct any details of the following at some future day.

The ceremonials last throughout the latter two-thirds of a night. Each member on entering approaches
the altar, and with prayer-meal in hand addresses a long prayer to the assembly of fetiches,
at the close of which he scatters the prayer-meal over them, breathes on and from his hand,
and takes his place in the council. An opening prayer-chant, lasting from one to three hours,
is then sung at intervals, in which various members dance to the sound of the constant rattles,
imitating at the close of each stanza the cries of the beasts represented by the fetiches.

At the conclusion of the song, the "Keeper of the Deer Medicine," who is master priest of the
occasion, leads off in the recitation of a long metrical ritual, in which he is followed by
the two warrior priests with shorter recitations, and by a prayer from another priest (of uncertain
rank). During these recitations, responses like those of the litany in the Church of England
may be heard from the whole assembly, and at their close, at or after sunrise, all members
flock around the altar and repeat, prayer-meal in hand, a concluding invocation. This is followed
by a liberal feast, principally of game, which is brought in and served by the women, with
additional recitations and ceremonials. At this feast, portions of each kind of food are taken
out by every member for the Prey gods, which portions are sacrificed by the priests, together
with the prayer plume-sticks, several of which are supplied by each member.

CEREMONIALS OF THE HUNT.

Similar midnight ceremonials, but briefer, are observed on the occasion of the great midwinter
tribal hunts, the times for which are fixed by the Keeper of the Deer Medicine, the master
and warrior priests of the Sá-ni-a-k'ia-kwe; and the religious observances accompanying and
following which would form one of the most interesting chapters connected with the fetich worship
of the Zuñi's.

These ceremonials and tribal hunts are more and more rarely observed, on account of the scarcity
of game and of the death a few years since of the warrior priest above mentioned, without whose
assistance they cannot be performed. This position has been recently refilled, and I hope during
the coming winter to be enabled, not only to witness one of these observances, but also to
join in it; a privilege which will be granted to me on account of my membership in the order
of the Priesthood of the Bow.

Any hunter, provided he be one privileged to participate in the above described ceremonials--namely,
a Prey brother--supplies himself, when preparing for the chase, not only with his weapons,
&c., but also with a favorite or appropriate prey fetich. In order to procure the latter he
proceeds, sooner or later before starting, to the House of the Deer Medicine (Nál-e-ton ï′n-kwïn),
where the vessel containing the fetiches is brought forth by the Keeper or some substitute,
and placed before him. Pacing in the direction of the region to which belongs the particular
fetich which he designs to use, he sprinkles into and over the vessel sacred prayer or medicine
meal. Then holding a small quantity of the meal in his left hand, over the region of his heart,
he removes his head-band and utters the following prayer:

 Ma: Lú-k'ia yät-ton-né, hom tä-tchú, hom tsi-tá,      tom lithl hâ
Why!    This        day,  my  father,  my mother, (to)thee  here  I

  té-kwïn-te  té-ä-tip, o-ná ël-le-te-k'iá.  Hothl     yam   á-tä-tchú
unexpectedly      have trail     overtaken. Soever  for my     Fathers
                       (by) road

       Kâ-kâ A′-shi-wa-ní,  wé-ma    á-shi-wa-ní, K'ia-pin-a-hâ-í
sacred dance  priest-(gods),   Prey  priest-(gods),    the     gods
                                                    animal   beings

  awën hâ lithl      yam       te-li-ki-ná  yel-le-te-u-k'o-ná
theirs  I  here       my     sacred things  made ready (which)
                for them    (plumes, etc.,
                       literally relatives
                           of the species)

  te-li-ki-ná i-thle-a-nán  tom lithl hâ o-ná ël-le-te-k'iá;  tom
sacred things    with (me) unto  here  I road     overtaken; unto
                  bringing thee            by         (have) thee
                                        trail

lithl hâ häl-lo-wa-ti-nán  thle-a-ú  tom  an   té-ap-k'o-nan
 here  I     good fortune (ad)dress  thy own wherewith (thou
                                                 hast being)

ä′n-ti-shem-án a-k'iá   yam á-wi-te-lin  tsi-tá, hâ lithl
     wishing for hence, to my   all earth   mother  I  here

        té-u-su a-k'iá  ó-ne yâthl kwai-k'ia-ná.
  (with prayer) hence, trail  over go out shall.
(-from), prayer

    Lé-we     ú-lokh nan thla-ná tom   te-ap-k'o-nán  sho-hi-tá tom
Thus much   (of the)       great thy wherewith (thou (the) deer thy
               world                     hast being)

    pi-nan a-k'iá    a-u-la-shó.  Awen shi-nán,  awen k'iáh-kwïn
      wind     by encircle about Their    flesh their life fluid
breath (of  hence wander around.                         (blood)
     life)

 hothl án-ti-she-mán a-k'iá,   le-hok té-u-su a k'iá hâ  ó-ne
soever       wanting   hence   yonder  prayer  hence  I trail
                            (from me)           with

  kwaí k'ia-ná.
go out (shall).

Kwa-í-no-ti-nam  hothl    yam    té-ap-k'o-nán     a-k'iá   hom   tâ
   Without fail where-    thy  wherewith (thou hence (by) to me thou
  (unfailingly) soever for me      hast being)

ke-tsä-ti-k'ia-ná.     Hom   tâ té-k'o-ha-ná an-ík tchi-a-tú.
 happy (make, do). Unto me thou  (the) light  meet with (do).

FREE TRANSLATION.

Why (of course)--

This day, my father (or, my mother), here I, (as if) unexpectedly, meet thee with whatsoever
I have made ready of the sacred things of my fathers, the priest gods of the sacred dances,
the priest gods of the Prey (beings). These sacred things bringing I have here overtaken thee,
and with their good fortune I here address thee. Wishing for that whereby thou hast being,
I shall go forth from here prayerfully upon the trails of my earth-mother.

Throughout the whole of this great country, they whereby thou hast being, the deer, by the
command of thy wind of life (breath), wander about. It is wishing for their flesh and blood
that I shall go forth yonder prayerfully out over the trails.

Let it be without fail that thou shall make me happy with that whereby thou hast being. Grant
unto me the light of thy favor.

Then scattering forth the prayer-meal in the direction he proposes to take on the hunt, he
chooses from the vessel the fetich, and pressing it to or toward his lips breaths from, it
and exclaims:

Ha! é-lah-kwá, hom tä-tchú (hom tsi-tá), lú-k'ia yät-ton-né   o-né Ah!    Thanks,  my father,
(my mother),    this        day trails

yäthl ëh-kwé ta-pan hâ té-u-su a-k'iá,    o-né  yäthl kwaí-k'ia-ná.
 over  ahead taking  I  prayer    with  trails   over go out shall.

FREE TRANSLATION.

Ah! Thanks, my father (or, my mother), this day I shall follow (thee) forth over the trails.
Prayerfully over the trails I shall go out.

Should a party be going to the hunt together, all repair to the House of the Deer Medicine,
repeating, one by one, the above prayers and ceremonial as the fetiches are drawn.

The fetich is then placed in a little crescent-shaped bag of buckskin which the hunter wears
suspended over the left breast (or heart) by a buckskin thong, which is tied above the right
shoulder. With it he returns home, where he hangs it up in his room and awaits a favorable
rain or snow storm, meanwhile, if but a few days elapse, retaining the fetich in his own house.
If a hunter be not a member of the orders above mentioned, while he must ask a member to secure
a fetich for him, in the manner described, still he is quite as privileged to use it as is
the member himself, although his chances for success are not supposed to be so good as those
of the proper owner.

During his journey out the hunter picks from the heart of the yucca, or Spanish bayonet, a
few thin leaves, and, on reaching the point where an animal which he wishes to capture has
rested, or whence it has newly taken flight, he deposits, together with sacrifices hereinafter
to be mentioned, a spider knot (hó-tsa-na mu kwí-ton-ne), made of four strands of these yucca
leaves. This knot must be tied like the ordinary cat-knot, but invariably from right to left,
so that the ends of the four strands shall spread out from the center as the legs of a spider
from its body. The knot is further characterized by being tied quite awkwardly, as if by a
mere child. It is deposited on the spot over which the heart of the animal is supposed to have
rested or passed. Then a forked twig of cedar is cut and stuck very obliquely into the ground,
so that the prongs stand in a direction opposite to that of the course taken by the animal,
and immediately in front, as it were, of the fore part of its heart, which is represented as
entangled in the knot.

This process, in conjunction with the roar of the animal, which the
fetich represents, and which is imitated by the hunter on the conclusion
of these various ceremonials, is supposed to limit the power of flight
of the animal sought, to confine him within a narrow circle, and,
together with an additional ceremonial which is invariably performed,
even without the other, is supposed to render it a sure prey. This is
performed only after the track has been followed until either the animal
is in sight, or a place is discovered where it has lain down. Then, in
exactly the spot over which the heart of the animal is supposed to have
rested, he deposits a sacrifice of corn pollen (tâ-ón-ia), sacred black
war paint (tsú-ha-pa)--a kind of plumbago, containing shining particles,
and procured by barter from the Ha-va-su-paí (Coçoninos), and from
sacred mines toward the west--and prayer or sacred meal, made from white
seed-corn (emblematic of terrestrial life or of the foods of mankind),
fragments of shell, sand from the ocean, and sometimes turkois or
green-stone, ground very fine, and invariably carried in pouches by all
members of the sacred societies of Zuñi. To this mixture sacred shell
beads or coral are sometimes added. Then, taking out the fetich, he
breathes on it and from it, and exclaims "Si!", which signifies "the
time has come," or that everything is in readiness. The exact meaning
may, perhaps, be made clearer by an example. When all preparations have
been made complete for a ceremonial, the word "Si!", uttered by the
master priest of the occasion, is a signal for the commencement of the
ceremonials. It is therefore substituted for "Ma!", used in the
foregoing prayer, whenever any preparations, like sacrifices and
ceremonials, precede the prayer.   Hothl
      one          night  thy own trail  over  round about  However
                                             (even) though.

  yam á-wi-te-lin    tsi-tau-án to-pin-té i-te-tchu-ná   hom   tâ
to me       earth mother (with)       one         step to me thou
 your

   an-k'o-ha-ti-ná. Tom  an k'iah-kwïn an-ti-shi-ma-ná, tom  an
shalt grant(favor). Thy own      blood         wanting, thy own
                            life-fluid

shi-i-nán án-ti-shi-mán  a-k'iá     tom lithl hâ häl-lo-wa-ti-nán
    flesh       wanting,  hence to thee, here  I    good fortunes

á-thle-a-ú     thlâ á-thle-a-ú.     Lé-we    tá-kuthl po-ti′  hom
(ad)dress, treasure  (ad)dress. Thus much woods round  filled to me
                                  all the       about

  an tom yä′t-ti-na tsú-ma-k'ie-ná. Hom   á-tä-tchú,   hom ton
mine you     grasping   strong shall.  My all-fathers, to me you

án-k'o-ha-ti-na-wá.   Hom ton  té-k'o-ha-na án-ik-tchi-a-nap-tú.
    favor do (all). To me you light (favor) meet with do.

FREE TRANSLATION.

All ye woods that fill (the country) round about me, (do) grasp for me strongly. [This expression
beseeches that the logs, sticks, branches, brambles, and vines shall impede the progress of
the chased animal.] My fathers, favor me. Grant unto me the light of your favor, do.

The hunter then takes out his fetich, places its nostrils near his lips, breaths deeply from
them, as though to inhale the supposed magic breath of the God of Prey, and puffs long and
quite loudly in the general direction whither the tracks tend. He then, utters three or four
times a long low cry of, "Hu-u-u-u!" It is supposed that the breath of the god, breathed in
temporarily by the hunter, and breathed outward toward the heart of the pursued animal, will
overcome the latter and stiffen his limbs, so that he will fall an easy prey; and that the
low roar, as of the beast of prey, will enter his consciousness and frighten him so as to conceal
from him the knowledge of any approach.

The hunter then rises, replaces his fetich, and pursues the trail with all possible ardor,
until he either strikes the animal down by means of his weapons, or so worries it by long-continued
chase that it becomes an easy capture.   Hom   tâ    tâ-sho-na-né, All!    Thanks!  my  father,
my   child. To me thou seeds (of earth)

 k'iä-she-ma án-ik-tchi-a-nap-tú.   Hom   tâ té-k'o-ha-na, o-né, yäthl
water (want)     meet (grant) do. To me thou        light trail   over
                                                        (favor)

k'ok-shi, án-ik-tchi-a-nap-tú.
    good      meet (grant) do.

FREE TRANSLATION.

As soon as the animal is dead he lays open its viscera, cuts through the diaphragm, and makes
an incision in the aorta, or in the sac which incloses the heart. He then takes out the prey
fetich, breathes on it, and addresses it thus:

Si! Hom tä-tchú, lú-k'ia yät-ton-né, lithl k'ia-pin-hâ-i an k'iáh-kwïn
Si! My  father   this       day      here  Game animal   its life-fluid
                                                              (blood)

a-k'iá  tâs       í-k'iah-kwi-ná,  tâs i′-ke-i-nan a-k'iá
 hence thou shalt dampen thyself, thou   shalt (thy)  hence
  with,                                        heart   with

i'-te-li-a-u-ná:
       add unto:

FREE TRANSLATION.

Si! My father, this day of the blood of a game being thou shalt drink (water thyself). With
it thou shalt enlarge (add unto) thy heart:

He then dips the fetich into the blood which the sac still contains, continuing meanwhile the
prayer, as follows:

----les-tik-lé-a ak'n' hâ-i′, k'ia-pin-hâ-i an k'iáh-kwïn, likewise cooked being, game being
its fluid done raw (of life)

shí-i-nan a-k'iá hâ's lithl yam í-ke-i-nan í-te-li-a-u-ná. flesh hence I shall here my heart
add unto (enlarge). with */

FREE TRANSLATION.

--- likewise, I, a "done" being, with the blood, the flesh of a raw being (game animal), shall
enlarge (add unto) my heart.

Which finished, he scoops up, with his hand, some of the blood and sips it; then, tearing forth
the liver, ravenously devours a part of it, and exclaims, "É-lah-kwá!" (Thanks).

While skinning and quartering the game he takes care to cut out the tragus or little inner
lobe of its ear, the clot of blood within the heart (ä′-te mul ú-li-k'o-na), and to preserve
some of the hair. Before leaving, he forms of these and of the black paint, corn pollen, beads
of turkois or turkois dust, and sacred shell or broken shell and coral beads before mentioned,
a ball, and on the spot where the animal ceased to breathe he digs a grave, as it were, and
deposits therein, with prayer-meal, this strange mixture, meanwhile saying the following prayer:

Si! Lú-k'ia yät-ton-né, k'ia-pin-hâ-í, tó-pin-ta yät-ton-né tó-pin-ta
Si!    This        day     game being,       one        day,      one
                                  raw

teh-thli-na-né,     lé-we tom  o-né yäthl ú-lap-na-k'ia tap-té lú-k'ia
         night, thus much thy trail  over circled about though    this
                                                 (even)

yät-ton-né  te-kwïn-té te-ä-ti-pá, tom lithl hâ an-ah-ú'-thla-k'iá.
       day     (as if)     was it thou  here  I     upward pulling
          unexpectedly                                    embraced.

    Tom lithl hâ hä′l-lo-a-ti-nán thle-a-ú.     Tom lithl hâ
To thee  here, I       good fortune  address  To thee  here  I

    ó-ne-an   thle-a-ú.     Tom lithl hâ     thlâ thle-a-ú.    Yam
corn pollen    address. To thee  here  I treasure  address. By thy
 the yellow

an-i-kwan-a-k'iá hä′l-lo-wa-ti-nan,    ó-ne-an,     thlâ
 knowledge-hence        good fortune, the yellow, treasure

        í-thle-a-u-ná   tâ thli-mon  hâ-i   í-ya-k'ia-nan  hom  an
(thyself) shall dress thou      new  being making shall be  my own
                                 (thyself)

té u-su=pé-nan a-k'iá   tâ yä′-shu-a i-tú loh    k'ia-ná.
 prayer-speech  hence thou  conversing come and go (shall).
                with,

K'ia-pin-á-hâ-i         á-te-kwi  a-k'iá. Kwa  hom i′-no-ti-nam tun
    Game beings      relative to    with.   Hom   tâ té-k'o-ha-na an′-ik-tchi-a-nap-tú.  O-né
   (have) all  To me thou        light        grant (meet) do. Trail
    addressed.

yäthl k'ok-shi   hom   tâ   tcháw' il-lü′p ó-na  yá-k'ia-nap-tú.
 over     good to me thou children  together with, finish, do.
                                             trail

FREE TRANSLATION.

Si! This day, game animal, even though, for a day and a night, thy trail above (the earth)
circled about--this day it has come to pass that I have embraced thee upward (from it). To
thee here I address good fortune. To thee here I address the (sacred) pollen. To thee here
I address treasure. By thy (magic) knowledge dressing thyself with this good fortune, with
this yellow, with this treasure, do thou, in becoming a new being, converse with (or, of) my
prayer as you wander to and fro.

That I may become unfailing toward the Game animals all, I have here addressed unto thee good
fortune, the yellow and treasure.

Grant unto me the light of thy favor.

Grant unto me a good (journey) over the trail of life, and, together with children, make the
road of my existence, do.

During the performance of these ceremonials the fetich is usually placed in a convenient spot
to dry, and at their conclusion, with a blessing, it is replaced in the pouch. The hunter either
seeks further for game, or making a pack of his game in its own skin by tying the legs together
and crossing them over his forehead like a burden strap, returns home and deposits it either
at the door or just within. The women then come, and, breathing from the nostrils, take the
dead animal to the center of the room, where, placing its head toward the East, they lay on
either side of its body next to the heart an ear of corn (significant of renewed life), and
say prayers, which, though short, are not less interesting and illustrative of the subject
than those already given, but which, unfortunately, I cannot produce word for word.

The fetich is returned to the Keeper of the Deer Medicine with thanksgiving and a prayer, not
unlike that uttered on taking it forth, but which also I am unable to reproduce. It contains
a sentence consigning the fetich to its house with its relatives, speaking of its quenched
thirst, satisfied hunger, and the prospects of future conquests, etc.

THEIR POWER.

It is believed that without recourse to these fetiches or to prayers and other inducements
toward the game animals, especially the deer tribe, it would be useless to attempt the chase.
Untrammeled by the Medicine of the Deer, the powers of the fetiches, or the animals of prey
represented, the larger game is unconquerable; and no man, however great his endurance, is
accounted able to overtake or to weary them. It thus happens that few hunters venture forth
without a fetich, even though they belong to none of the memberships heretofore mentioned.
Indeed, the wearing of these fetiches becomes almost as universal as is the wearing of amulets
and "Medicines" among other nations and Indian tribes; since they are supposed to bring to
their rightful possessors or holders, not only success in the chase and in war (in the case
of the Warriors or Priests of the Bow), but also good fortune in other matters.

The successful hunter is typical of possession, since the products of his chase yield him food,
apparel, ornament, and distinction. It is therefore argued with strange logic that, even though
one may not be a hunter, there must exist a connection between the possessions of the hunter
and the possessions of that one, and that principally through the fetiches. A man therefore
counts it the greatest of good fortune when he happens to find either a natural or artificial
object resembling one of the animals of prey. He presents it to a proper member of the Prey
Brotherhood, together with the appropriate flint arrow-point and the desirable amount of ornaments
(thlâ-â) for dressing (thlé-a-k'ia-na) and finishing (í-ya-k'ia-na), as soon as possible.

PREY GODS OF THE PRIESTHOOD OF THE BOW.

The Priesthood of the Bow possesses three fetiches, two of which are of the We-ma-á-hâ-i, (Plate
X, Fig. 2, and Plate XI, Fig. 2.) The other is sometimes classed with these, sometimes with
the higher beings, and may be safely said to form a connecting link between the idolatry proper
of the Zuñis and their fetichism. These three beings are, the Mountain Lion (Plate X, Pig.
2), the great White Bear (Plate XI, Fig. 2), (Áiŋ-shi k'ó-ha-na--the god of the scalp-taking
ceremonials), and the Knife-feathered Monster (Á-tchi-a lä-to-pa), (Plate X, Fig. 1).

This curious god is the hero of hundreds of folklore tales, and the tutelar deity of several
of the societies of Zuñi. He is represented as possessing a human form, furnished with flint
knife-feathered pinions, and tail. His dress consists of the conventional terraced cap(representative
of his dwelling-place among the clouds), and the ornaments, badge, and garments of the Kâ′-kâ.
His weapons are the Great Flint-Knife of War, the Bow of the Skies (the Rain-bow), and the
Arrow of Lightning, and his guardians or warriors are the Great Mountain Lion of the North
and that of the Upper regions.

He was doubtless the original War God of the Zuñis, although now secondary, in the order of
war, to the two children of the Sun mentioned at the outset.

Anciently he was inimical to man, stealing and carrying away to his city in the skies the women
of all nations, until subdued by other gods and men of magic powers. At present he is friendly
to them, rather in the sense of an animal whose food temporarily satisfies him than in the
beneficent character of most of the gods of Zuñi.

Both the Great White Bear and the Mountain Lion of the War Priesthood are, as well as the Knife-feathered
Demon, beings of the skies. For this reason the fetich of the Mountain Lion of the skies (of
aragonite) is preferred by a Priest of the Bow above all other kinds or colors. Unfortunately,
none of the fetiches of this priesthood are to be found in the collections of the Bureau, and
but one, with its pouch, has been reproduced from the original, which is in my possession.
It was not presented to me with my other paraphernalia on the night of the final ceremonials
of my initiation into the Priesthood of the Bow, but some months afterward when I was about
to start on a dangerous expedition. At this time I was charged with carefully preserving it
during life as my special fetich, and instructed in the various usages connected with it. The
other was drawn from a sketch made by myself of a fetich in Zuñi.

These fetiches--more usually of the Mountain Lion than of the others; very rarely of the Knife-feathered
Demon--are constantly carried by the warriors when abroad in pouches like those of the Hunters,
and in a similar manner. They are, however, not returned to the headquarters of the society
when not in use; but, being regarded, with the other paraphernalia of their possessor, as parts
of his Sá-wa-ni-k'ia, are always kept near him.

RESEMBLANCE TO THE PREY GODS OF THE HUNT.

The perfect fetich of this order differs but little from those of the Hunters, save that it
is more elaborate and is sometimes supplied with a minute heart of turkois bound to the side
of the figure with sinew of the Mountain Lion, with which, also, the arrow-point is invariably
attached, usually to the back or belly. The precious beads of shell, turkois, coral, or black
stone, varied occasionally with small univalves from the ocean, are bound over all with a cotton
cord. These univalves, theoliva (tsu-i-ke-i-nan-ne=heartshell), are, above all other shells,
sacred; and each is emblematic of a god of the order. The wrist badges of the members are also
made of these shells, strung on a thong of buckskin taken from the enemy. The arrow-point,
when placed on the back of the fetich, is emblematic of the Knife of War (Sá-wa-ni-k'ia ä′-tchi-ën-né),
and is supposed, through the power of Sá-wa-ni-k'ia or the "magic medicine of war" (?) to protect
the wearer from the enemy from behind or from other unexpected quarters. When placed "under
the feet" or belly, it is, through the same power, considered capable of effacing the tracks
of the wearer, that his trail may not be followed by the enemy.

THE RITES OF THEIR WORSHIP.

The ceremonial observed by a Priest of the Bow, when traveling alone in a country where danger
is to be apprehended from the enemy, may be taken as most illustrative of the regard in which
the fetiches of his order are held.

Under such circumstances the warrior takes out his fetich from the pouch, and, scattering a
pinch or two of sacred flour toward each of the four quarters with his right hand, holds it
in his left hand over his breast, and kneels or squats on the ground while uttering the accompanying
prayer:

Si!    This        day,  my  Fathers,  Animal Beings,    (all)
                                                     thus much

    í-na-kwe   pó-ti-tap-té hom ton   té-hi-a-na-wé. Ethl
(by) enemies filled through  me  ye precious render   Not
                                           (all do).

   tel-i-kwën-te thlothl        tchu-a í-na-kwe hom kwa'-hothl a-k'iá
that (in any)way  soever whom (of the)    enemy  my whatsoever   with
      unexpected

     a-tsu-ma-na-wam-i-k'ia-ná. Lú-k'ia yät-ton-né   hom to lé'-na
daring (existence) (pl.) shall.    This        day to me ye   thus

[At this point, while-still continuing the prayer, he scratches or cuts in the earth or sands
with the edge of the arrow-point, which is lashed to the back or feet of the fetich, a line
about five or six inches in length].

    ai′-yäl-la-na-wá. Ethl  thlothl-tchu-á       í-na-kwe
shelter(pl.)shall give.  Not that whomsoever (of the) enemy
                shield

      í-pi-kwai-nam-tun   a-k'iá   hom  ton     aí-yäl-la-na-wá.
pass themselves through to hence to me   ye shelter shield (pl.)
                                                   shall (give),

[Here he scratches a second line.]       Hâk-ti-tä′sh-a-ná,
                                   Tail-long (Mountain Lion),

[scratches a third line.] Ä-tchi-a-lä′-to-pá, [scratches a fourth
                               Knife-feathered,

line] hom ton í-ke-i-nan     aí-yäl-la-na-wá.
       my  ye      heart   shelter shield(pl.)
                                  shall give.

[These lines, although made immediately in front of the speaker, relate to the four points
of the compass, the other two regions not being taken into account, since it is impossible
for the enemy to bring harm from either above or below the plane on which the subject moves.
It may be well to add, also, that four (the number of the true fingers) is the sacred numeral
of the Zuñis, as with most all Indian tribes and many other lower races.]

FREE TRANSLATION.

Si! This day, my fathers, ye animal gods, although this country be filled with enemies, render
me precious. That my existence may not be in any way so ever unexpectedly dared by the enemy,
thus, O! shelter give ye to me (from them). (In order) that none of the enemy may pass through
(this line) hence, O! shelter give ye to me (from them). Long Tail [Mountain Lion], Knife-feathered
[God of the Knife Wings], O! give ye shelter of my heart from them.

On the conclusion of this prayer the fetich is breathed upon and replaced, or sometimes withheld
until after the completion of the war-song and other chants in which the three gods mentioned
above are, with others, named and exhorted, thereby, in the native belief, rendering protection
doubly certain. I am of course thoroughly familiar with these war chants, rituals, etc. They
abound in archaic terms and are fraught with great interest, but belong more properly to another
department of Zuñi worship than that of the mere fetichism; as, indeed, do most other recitations,
chants, etc., of the War society, in any way connected with this worship.

Before following the trail of an enemy, on rinding his camp, or on overtaking and destroying
him, many ceremonials are performed, many prayers are uttered, much the same as those described
relative to the chase, save that they are more elaborate and more irrelevant to the subject
in hand. As with the Hunter, so with the Warrior, the fetich is fed on the life-blood of the slain.

OTHER FETICHES.

FETICHES OF NAVAJO ORIGIN.

THE PONY.

Among other specimens in the collection to which these notes relate are several pieces representing
the horse and domesticated sheep, of which Plate IX, Figs. 3 and 4, are the best examples.
Both are of Navajo importation, by which tribe they are much prized and used. The original
of Fig. 3 represents a saddled pony, and has been carefully carved from a small block of compact
white limestone veined like Italian marble. This kind of fetich, according to the Zuñis, is
manufactured at will by privileged members of the Navajo nation, and carried about during hunting
and war excursions in "medicine bags," to insure the strength, safety, and endurance of the
animals they represent.

THE SHEEP.

Plate IX, Fig. 4, represents a superb large sheep fetich of purplish-pink fluorspar, the eyes
being inlaid with small turkoises. Such are either carried about by the shepherds or kept in
their huts, and, together with certain ceremonials, are supposed not only to secure fecundity
of the flocks, but also to guard them against disease, the animals of prey, or death by accident.

AMULETS AND CHARMS.

In addition to the animal fetiches heretofore described, many others are found among the Zuñis
as implements of their worship, and as amulets or charms for a variety of purposes. The painted
and plumed prayer-sticks are of this character.

The amulets proper may be roughly divided into three classes:

1. Concretions and other strange rock formations, which, on account of their forms, are thought
to have been portions of the gods, of their weapons, implements, and ornaments, their té-ap-ku-na-we
(the wherewithals of Being).

2. The sacred relics of the gods, which are supposed to have been given to man directly by
their possessors, in the "days of the new," and include the "Gifts of the Gods" (yél-le-te-li-we).

3. The magic "medicines" which are used as protective, curative, and productive agencies, and
are known as the é tâ-we and á-kwa-we (the "contained" and the "medicines").

One object, a mere concretion, will have something about it suggesting an organ of the human
body. (See, for example, Fig. 1.) It will then be regarded as the genital organ of some ancient
being, and will be highly prized, not only as a means of approaching the spirit of the god
to whom it is supposed to have once belonged, but also as a valuable aid to the young man in
his conquests with the women, to the young woman in her hope to bear male children.

Again, certain minerals (Fig. 2), or fossils, etc. (Fig. 3), will be regarded as belonging
to, or parts of, the gods, yet will be used as medicines of war or the chase, or by means of
which water may be produced or crops stimulated, to say nothing of their efficacy as cures,
or sources of strength, etc. For instance, Fig. 2 is of aragonite, hence referred to the Upper
regions, and therefore valuable to give efficacy to the paint with which plume-sticks of rain
prayers are decorated; while Fig. 3, from its shape, is supposed to represent the relic of
the weapon or tooth of a god, and therefore endowed with the power of Sá-wa-ni-k'ia, and hence
is preserved for generations--with an interminable variety of other things--in the Order of
the Warriors, as the "protective medicine of war" (Shom-i-tâ-k'ia). A little of it, rubbed
on a stone and mixed with much water, is a powerful medicine for protection, with which the
warrior fails not to anoint his whole body before entering battle.

These amulets and implements of worship are well illustrated in the National Museum, and the
subject merits extensive treatment. The facts connected with them will throw much light upon
the mental characteristics and beliefs of the Zuñis. At some future time I hope to set this
matter forth more fully.

       *       *       *       *       *

NOTE.--It is to be regretted that the haste in which this paper was prepared by the author,
before his departure for New Mexico, to resume his researches among the Zuñis, made it impossible
for him to discuss further this interesting subject. The abundant material in his possession,
gained from actual membership in the order or society under discussion, would have rendered
this comparatively easy under other circumstances.--Ed.

INDEX.

Amulets of the Zuñis, 44
Animal carvings, worship, Zuñi, 11
A′shi-wa-ni or priests of Zuñi, 12
A′shi-wa or Zuñi, 9
Bear fetich, White, Zuñi, 40
Ceremonials of the hunt, Zuñi, 33
Charmes of the Zuñis, 44
Coyote fetich, Zuñi, 26
Distribution of the animals; Zuñi myth, 21
Drying of the world; Zuñi myth, 13
Eagle fetich, Zuñi, 29
Falcon fetich, Zuñi, 30
Fetich ceremonies connected with hunting, Zuñi, 33
      , Coyote; Zuñi hunter god of the west, 26
      , Eagle; Zuñi hunter god of the upper regions, 29
      , Mole; Zuñi hunter god of the lower regions, 30
      , Mountain lion; Zuñi hunter god of the north, 25, 40
      , Navajo pony, 44
               sheep, 44
      , Wild cat; Zuñi hunter god of the south, 27
      , Wolf; Zuñi hunter god of the east, 28
      , Zuñi falcon and ground owl, 30
             ground owl and falcon, 30
             knife feathered monster, 40
             white bear, 40
Fetiches, Material used by Zuñis in making, 25, 40
        , Material used by Zuñis in ornamenting, 25, 40
          of Navajo origin, 44
        , Zuñi, 12
        , Council of the, 32
        , Custodianship of the, 30
          of the prey gods of the hunt, 20
          of the prey gods of the priesthood of the bow, 40
Fetiches, Zuñi, of the prey gods of the six regions, 19
              , Place of deposit of, 31
              , Power of the, 15, 33
              , Relative value of the, 30
Fetichism, Origin of Zuñi, 12
God, Zuñi hunter, of the east, 28
                    lower regions, 30
                    north, 25
                    south, 29
                    upper regions, 29
                    west, 26
Gods, Zuñi prey, of the hunt, 20
                 priesthood of the bow, 40
                 six regions, 16
Hunting, Zuñi ceremonials preceding, 33
Iliad, the Zuñi, 12
Knife-feathered monster fetich, Zuñi, 40
Lucas, J. D., Shell gorget collected by, 29
Medicine, Iroquois myth giving origin of, 18
Mí-tsi, Zuñi myth of, 18
Mole fetich, Zuñi, 30
Mountain lion fetich, Zuñi, 25, 40
Myth, Zuñi, of distribution of the animals, 21
               drying of the world, 13
               Mí-tsi, 18
               Pó-shai-an-kia; prey god, 16
Navajo fetiches, 44
Owl fetich, Zuñi, 30
Philosophy, Zuñi, 9
Pony fetich, Navajo, 44
Po′-shai-an-k'ia; Prey god; Zuñi myth, 16
Power of the Zuñi fetiches, 15, 33
                  prey gods, 18
Prayers of the Zuñi priesthood of the bow, 42
             , Zuñi, preparatory to the hunt, 33
Prey gods, Zuñi, Ceremony attending worship of, 32
                 of the hunt, Number of the, 25
               , Origin of the, 20
               , Relation of, to others, 20
                 resemble prey gods of priesthood of the bow, 41
               , Worship of the, 33
Prey gods of the six regions,  Zuñi, Number of the, 16
                                  , Origin of the, 16
                                  , Power of the, as mediators, 18
                                  , Varieties of the, 24
                                  , Worship of the, 19
                                    priesthood of the bow, Zuñi, 40
                                  , Number of the, 40
                                  , Resemble prey god of the hunt, 41
                                  , Worship of the, 41, 43
Priesthood of the bow, Prey gods of the Zuñi, 40
           ; Zuñi Prey Brother, 19
Priests of Zuñi or A′-shi-wa-ni, 12
Sheep fetich, Navajo, 44
We-ma-we, Zuñi name for all fetiches, 12
White bear fetich, Zuñi, 40
Wolf fetich, Zuñi, 28
World, Zuñi myth of drying of the, 12
Worship of animals, Zuñi, 11
Zuñi prey gods, Ceremony attending, 32
                of priesthood of the bow, 41, 43
                the six regions, 19
Zuñi animal worship, 11
     fetiches, by F. H. Cushing, 1
     fetichism, Origin of, 12
     Iliad, 12
     mythology, 11
     or Á-shi-wi, 9
     philosophy, 9
     priest or Á-shi-wi-ni, 12

