I wish I knew more about architecture! I thought Rosslyn a gem, and should have described it
as a thing of unique perfection; but Somerled, who knows all about such things, said no, it
was far from right artistically, though beautiful in spite of faults. My description would
briefly be: whole chapel like great carved jewel-casket for a queen; ornamentation simply dazzling
in intricacy and delicate detail; extraordinary pale rose-flush in shadow on stone pillars,
which have the rich cream tints of carved ivory. No two alike: Spanish spirit visible here.
Reminded me of detail in Burgos Cathedral. Nice story about the Prentice's Pillar. I looked
it up when I found we were going to Rosslyn, and told it to Barrie before Somerled had a chance
to open his mouth. Showed her the sculptured head of presumptuous man who dared finish the
column according to design of his own, while this master was unsuspectingly studying up ideas
for it in Rome. She thought the pillar more beautiful than the "horrid master's" work, and
almost cried to hear that the prentice had died from the mallet-stroke of the jealous avenger.
Barrie with tears in her eyes is a danger to beholders. She was particularly adorable just
then, as her hair was wet with rain (our first rain) and curled on her forehead in little tendrils.
This rain, by the way, came on worse later, and was perhaps the original, if indirect, cause
of what might be called our villainhood--Aline's and mine.

We were pretty well drenched getting from Dragon to Chapel and from Chapel to Dragon, though
the distance was nothing, but the downpour severe. Then, we three passengers were safely housed
in the closed car while Somerled and Vedder the chauffeur had the full benefit of the storm.
They were protected by a glass screen, but the waterspouts seemed to find them out, and Mrs.
James and Barrie were so sorry for the two men that I felt a "luxurious slave" to cringe in
shelter while others soaked.

Vedder, by the way, interests me as a type. I thought Aline and I had used up nearly all possible
types of chauffeurs, but he's a new one, and may prove valuable in case of future need. I understand
that he was distinguished in his remote past as a prize-fighter, then as a Cockney coachman
in London. Somerled rescued him from something or other--prison, probably, judging by the shape
of his nose (think it must have been broken and mended in absent-minded moment by amateur)
and the look he gives me occasionally from corner of eye--like vicious horse cowed by owner
and dangerous to strangers. Barrie and Mrs. James think him such a "quiet, nice man." It is
not their business to judge character, luckily for their illusions. My opinion of Vedder--who
looks exactly like the frog footman in Tenniel's illustrations of "Alice in Wonderland"--is
that he's a smouldering volcano. He never speaks unless absolutely necessary, then uses as
few words as possible, but his thoughts seethe in language unfit for publication except where
his worshipped master is concerned. He also, in his way, is a victim of Barrie MacDonald. He
has mentally apportioned her to Somerled, as spoil of battle. His vicious wall-eyes regard
with distrust and hatred other male creatures who dare to contend for the prize. If he could
arrange an accident to the Dragon without injuring it (an idol only second in his heart to
Somerled) or any one under its wing, except me and himself, I feel sure he would risk his own
bones for the sake of cracking mine. As for my sister, he does not approve of her. In looking
Aline-ward, his face seems to become perfectly flat, like a slab of stone, features almost
disappearing, except his slit of a mouth. "Nice, quiet man! So contented with his uncomfortable
perch at his master's feet!" But--when the slightest mishap befalls the Dragon, and his services
are needed as doctor or surgeon, he lets bottled-up steam escape. Without a word, he sets to
work like a demon, accomplishing what he has to do in about half the time our best chauffeurs
have taken. I should not be surprised at any moment to see ears, eyes, and nose emit lambent
flames. Chauffeurs are a strange race, and Vedder is the strangest of the lot.

Drawing near Edinburgh, and encountering the first tram lines, it was pretty to watch Barrie's
excitement. To understand, one had to remember that this was by far the biggest town the child
had ever seen, so that even the outskirts impressed her as something stupendous.

As if for her pleasure, the rain stopped. "The nice, quiet man" uncovered us pampered passengers,
and as we went on again, Edinburgh the beautiful, lying before us like a shadowy blue and purple
map, began to take shape as a city of spires and monuments and gardens, and reveal its unique
marvels. At this moment, I had my uses. Though it was my first sight of the Athens of Great
Britain, I've fagged it all up so faithfully for the book that I know what everything is and
what most things mean. I ventured to point out the Salisbury Crags, and Arthur's Seat watching
over the town and Castle like a guardian lion. It was all very well for Barrie to come to Edinburgh
to find her mother, but I didn't want her to miss realizing that she was entering perhaps the
most beautiful city in the world, and one of the most historic, after Rome. I knew if I didn't
give her this impression Somerled would, and wickedly I wished her to be primed by me before
he got his chance. The only trouble was that I hadn't enough time to make her see fully all
the glorious contrasts which ought to strike the mind at first sight of Edinburgh, where Yesterday
and To-day gaze at and criticise each other across a gulf material and imaginary. Even though
Somerled brought the Dragon down to snail's pace, I couldn't do the subject justice, with my
best eloquence snatched at random from notebooks. Mrs. James would keep interrupting with quotations
from "the doctor's" famous unfinished MSS. I would almost have preferred the silent Vedder
as a chaperon. But there was some comfort in the certainty that Somerled was envying me the
place to which I'd been appointed by himself. As he was driving through traffic, and couldn't
glance round, he was unable to see how Barrie's eyes wandered from the points I indicated to
others which she selected for herself.

My dramatic announcement, that where now rises the solid gray mass of old Edinburgh once crouched
the wattled houses of the first inhabitants, scarcely caught her attention. She would gaze
dreamily at Arthur's Seat, because Mrs. James had just unfolded a meretricious legend to the
effect that King Arthur used to sit there and watch his troops. And the dark crag of the Castle,
with its thousand years of history, its crowning walls and towers, its chasms of purple shadow,
riveted her fancy when I would have discoursed on the modern charm of Princes Street--that
"half a street" so much more splendid than any whole street ever planned.

"The doctor told me, I remember," said Mrs. James, "that at the end of the eighteenth century,
when they wanted to build the new Edinburgh, they had to bribe people by giving them large
tracts of land in order to make them move out of the old town, or they wouldn't budge. Sometimes
a quarter of what they presented to one man in those days is worth a hundred thousand pounds now."

In spite of the girl's excited admiration of the goddess-town, her first question on getting
out of the car was to Somerled about her mother. "I think, if she stops at a hotel, she's likely
to choose this one," he said. "That's why I've brought you here."

"Thank you," she answered. "Thank you for everything." Then it was my turn to envy him.

She was pale, her face drained of colour, and extraordinarily spiritual as she stood in the
big hall, waiting to hear what Somerled would be told at the desk. He came back soon, and announced
that Mrs. Ballantree MacDonald had engaged a suite at this hotel, but it was not known whether
she would arrive that night or on Monday morning.

"Meanwhile, I've taken a room for you adjoining Mrs. James, as usual," Somerled said. "When
your mother arrives and you have met, she can make any new arrangement for you she chooses."

"And you--will go on--with the others?" asked Barrie, catching her breath in that engaging
way she has when she is excited and trying to control emotion.

"I shall go on--sooner or later," replied Somerled. "But--I shall have a look round Edinburgh
first, and see what has happened to my old haunts."

I thought her face brightened.

"Aline and I must 'do' Edinburgh too, of course," said I.

She smiled, but as if she were thinking of something else. And it was then that suddenly, for
the first time, I felt capable of developing into an able-bodied villain--in fact, committing
any crime which could transfer from him to me the kind of look she had given Somerled.

"I must of course go back to Carlisle and my work, as soon as I have paid my respects to Mrs.
Ballantree MacDonald," remarked Mrs. James.

"We'll talk of all that to-morrow," said Somerled, who, I suppose, engaged her at so much a
thousand words--I mean, so much a day--as chaperon for his "ward." "Whatever happens, you must
see Edinburgh while you're here. And besides, it's on the cards that I may be able to give
you a pleasant little surprise before you leave Scotland. I rather hoped for details of it
to-day; but there's nothing interesting in the mail they handed me at the desk" (he said this
like a native-born American), "so we must have patience till to-morrow."

"A surprise!" echoed Mrs. James, looking quite pretty and young, as she surprisingly does sometimes.
"Does Barrie know?"

"No," said Somerled. "Barrie doesn't know."

There was just time to go to our new rooms and make ourselves respectable for church, no light
thing in Scotland. Aline and the Vannecks hadn't turned up yet, but, knowing them and knowing
Blunderbore, I thought nothing strange of the delay. Aline's game was, of course, to make Somerled
jealous of George Vanneck, her old and well-worn chattel, whom she at heart despises, and to
seem not too eager for his (Somerled's) society, while I, attached to his party by special
arrangement, could protect her interests--and my own.

Somerled had ordered Vedder to wait with the Dragon when the luggage had been taken down, and
thus we saved ourselves some minutes which we should have lost in walking. We left the car
as soon as possible, however, and plunged into the beauty and squalor of the High Street on
foot. I annexed Barrie as a companion, and Somerled did not fight for her. Quietly he contented,
or seemed to content, himself with Mrs. James, and my impression was confirmed that, whether
he wanted Barrie or not, he was deliberately standing aside in my favour, giving me my "chance"--perhaps
to test Barrie or me--or both. Who could tell? Not I. Somerled is hard to read, even for a
professional character-vivisectionist.

"Are you too much excited, and taken up with thoughts of your mother, to care about all this?"
I asked the girl.

She admitted that she was excited, and perhaps a little absent-minded; but "all this," as I
called it, was too wonderful not to capture her interest in spite of everything.

"Think of Queen Mary and her four Maries, and Darnley, and Rizzio, and Bothwell, and John Knox
passing along as we pass now, on their way up to Holyrood?" said I.

"Yes. Oh, yes! I do think of them," she answered obediently, her eyes straying into the shadows
of wynd or close, or tracing out the detail of some carved gargoyle on an old façade.

"Only you think of yourself more----"

"Not myself exactly. But----"

"What then?"

"Well--one thinks of queer things in a place like this, full of romances and--and love stories.
I was wondering----"

"Yes. Don't be afraid to tell me. We're fellow-authors, you know--brother and sister of the pen."

"That's it! Brother and sister, aren't we? How nice!"

"Of the pen," I amended hastily.

"Story writers must know all about love," she hesitated.

"We do," I encouraged her to go on.

"Then how, if you were writing a story (I'm thinking I may want to do one), would you make
a girl sure whether she'd fallen in love with somebody?"

"I should make her," I answered cautiously, with an earthquake in my heart, "I should make
her feel--er--a sort of electric thrill when he touched her, or looked into her eyes. I should
make her feel that nothing was worth doing unless the man was with her."

"I know!" the girl murmured. "She would feel, wouldn't she, as if he must be there--as if she
just couldn't go on living if he weren't."

"That's it," I said. "You've described it graphically."

She regarded me with sudden suspicion. "Thank you very much," she replied primly. "I'll take
your advice and have it like that in my story, if I ever write it. What a wonderful old street
this is! It's full of ghosts of kings and queens, and noblemen and great ladies, and soldiers
and robbers, every one of them more important than the people we see."

I couldn't tempt her back to the dangerous subject and soon I prudently ceased to try. But
she had given me what I've heard described as a "nasty jar." Barrie MacDonald wouldn't have
appealed to Basil Norman for a definition of love if she'd thought of him as a man and not
a brother! The side of me nearest my heart hated Somerled, marching on ahead, looking singularly
attractive and gallant, much too interesting for a mere millionaire. And the side of me which
has telephonic communication with my brain liked and approved of him, understanding how and
why his personality made a strong appeal to most women. "You've had pretty well everything
you've asked life to give you so far," I said to his back, "but this girl isn't your kind of
girl. It's my sister you ought to want."

Suddenly, as we drew near to the crowned church of St. Giles--the old High Kirk--there came
to our ears the skirling of pipes. Barrie started and stopped. Somerled glanced round quickly,
his eyes keen. Would she prove her Highland blood? Would her heart beat for the pipes? That
was the question in his look.

The girl was taken by surprise. We others knew what we had come for, and what to expect. She
had no idea, except that she was being conducted decently to church.

At the first wail of the pipes the blood of her ancestors sprang to her face. She clasped her
hands together, listening in silence to the barbaric music, her lips apart, her eyes aglow.
And all this for the call of the pipes! Not yet had she caught her first glimpse of the pipers;
but an instant later the tall figures came swinging proudly into sight, plaids swaying like
tartan tassels, kilts moving with that wave-about-to-break rhythm given to their garments only
by inspired pipers.

Even I felt a thrill as if each nerve in my body were a string drawn suddenly taut, but I was
gloomily conscious that the Celtic souls of Somerled and Barrie felt more than I was capable
of feeling, a mysterious something which drew the two together at this instant. Physically,
I stood between them, but I knew that my body was no obstacle to the lightning flash between
their spirits.

Not a word said one of us as the goodly company of soldiers swept by in a rich-coloured cloud
of their own music. But when all had disappeared into the church, Somerled and Barrie looked
at each other. His eyes praised her for a braw and bonnie lassie who had responded in fine
style to her first-heard pipes, her first-seen kilt; yet his lips had nothing to say but, "Well,
what do you think of them?"

"Think?" echoed Barrie. "I think it's perfectly unbelievable how any girl can ever marry a
man who isn't a Highlander and has no right to the kilt!"

There was one for Somerled and one against me; but it only got my blood up. Many a girl says
a certain thing, and does another when her time comes.

"If I were rich," she went on, "I'd live in a castle in the Highlands, and I'd have it full,
simply swarming, with pipers, playing me awake in the morning and to sleep at night."

"I should like you to see your own castle of Dunelin at Dhrum. There are plenty of pipers there.
I've kept them all on, meaning them to play for me some day," said Somerled, who had just then
forgotten, I think, the existence of myself and Mrs. James, and failed to observe that in the
distance all Miss Barribel MacDonald's missing young men were assembling, as if to the call
of the blood--the soldier from Carlisle, who had collected a friend, and the American contingent
of four.

"My own castle?" Barrie repeated.

"You know what I mean. It would be yours if you'd been a boy. As you aren't----"

"It's yours!" laughed she.

"Not by right of blood. Only by right of money."

"Well, that's the sovereign right," she insisted, pleased with her own pun.

Then the victims of our miniature Circe arrived in the foreground, shook hands, bandied jokes,
and became the most prominent figures in the picture. For the first time I was glad to see
them, nor did I bear the youths ill-will for separating me from our beneficent enchantress
in the stately church with historic banners. They had separated her from Somerled as well.

After service was over, we stopped only for a look at the stones which mark in the pavement
the old Heart of Midlothian, and then hurried back to the hotel, escaping the Americans, but
clung to by Douglas and his cousin, another Douglas, who hospitably bade us all to visit him
at all his houses. He mentioned several, dotted about in various parts of the country; but
when he heard that Miss MacDonald was retiring from the party in a day or two, he ceased to
press the general invitation.

There was news of Mrs. Bal at the Caledonian. A maid had arrived who thought that her mistress
would not follow until the evening: Somerled asked Barrie, therefore--rather wistfully, I thought--if
she would care to go out again in the afternoon. "It will make the time pass for you," he added.
I sympathized with him against my will. It was to be his last day of "guardianship," yet he
was generous enough to invite me; and not only that, but to let me sit in the car with Barrie
and Mrs. James, on the way to Arthur's Seat. After this effort, however, human nature had its
way, and he kept her to himself for the rest of the afternoon. It was the first time he had
done this since I fastened myself upon the party. To-day, it was evidently by deliberate intention,
not accident. It was as if he said to himself, "These last hours shall be mine." And I wondered
if indeed he actually meant them to be last hours. For my part, I certainly meant nothing of
the sort. Mrs. Bal, or no Mrs. Bal, Aline or no Aline, Book or no Book, I didn't intend to
walk out of Barrie's life without trying to win a foothold in it for the future.

If I had an opinion on such matters, I should have said, up to a week ago, that I didn't approve
of marriage for a girl under twenty, as she couldn't possibly know her own mind; but Barrie
is the kind of exception to prove any rule. She ought to have a man to take care of her.

Before five we started back, for Mrs. James thought Barrie needed a nap. It appeared that she
hadn't slept the night before, owing to the excitement of suspense; and now "her eyes must
be bright for their first look at her mother."

Drawn up at the pavement in front of the hotel as we slowed down was a big blue car, and another
smaller one close behind, both of the same make, and evidently belonging to the same people.
We had to choose between waiting for them to disgorge passengers and unload luggage, or get
out at a distance from the entrance. We took the latter course, but at the hotel door Barrie
stopped us. She wore no veil; and though it was to Somerled, not me, she spoke, I could see
that her face was pale, her eyes dilated.

"Do you think that can be my mother arriving?" she asked in a low voice.

He looked back at the lady who, at this instant, was springing from the blue car to the pavement,
her hand in that of a man who offered unnecessary help. It was a tall figure in a long cloak
the colour of a duck's egg, and it gave the effect of willowy slimness despite the disguising
mantle. A close-fitting toque of greenish grayish blue covered the small head, and the face
was practically invisible behind a thick veil of the same mystic colour; but as the lady turned
her long throat for a look at the other car, there was a glimpse of banded red hair under the
toque, and a curl or two at the nape of the neck.

The two women in the smaller car also had red hair. They were not veiled, and their neat black
hats and jackets somehow advertised them unmistakably as ladies' maids. Neither was pretty,
in spite of her flaming crown of glory; and neither was young.

The remembrance of an "interview" with Mrs. Bal which I had read in some paper flashed back
to my mind. She had told the reporter that "only red-haired servants could understand the moods
of a red-haired mistress," and that, after disastrous experiences with "dull creatures who
had no temperament themselves, and couldn't live with any one who had," she decided to engage
only red-haired maids.

Perhaps Somerled knew of this idiosyncrasy, or else he recognized the tall form in spite of
its wrappings, for he said, "Yes, I think very likely it is your mother, Barrie. But we can't
be sure; and in any case I strongly advise you not to try and speak to her here in the street."

"Oh, I won't till she gets her veil off," said Barrie breathlessly, "but I must wait and see
her come into the hall. I----"

Somerled gently but firmly drew the girl into the hotel. Mrs. James and I followed. Evidently
Somerled wanted to persuade Barrie that it would be better to keep out of the lady's way as
she entered, and meet later, if indeed this were Mrs. Ballantree MacDonald; but the girl seemed
hardly to hear his murmured arguments. She did yield far enough to let him lead her a little
aside, but she took up her stand again where she could see the blue figure enter. She did not
speak, or insist upon her own way, yet I think it would have been impossible to move her without
using brute force. Somerled realized that nothing was to be done with the child for the moment,
and accordingly did nothing, except to stand beside her. Mrs. James and I took our places mechanically
on the girl's other side, though no word passed between us.

Never had I seen Barrie so beautiful. Though a brilliant colour burned on her cheeks, she looked
curiously spiritual. Her lovely body seemed a crystal lamp through which shone the light of
an eager soul.

A minute of this silent suspense, and the lady in the blue-gray cloak came in, followed by
the two red-haired maids carrying such valued possessions as no hotel porter must be allowed
to touch: little handbags, gold monogrammed; a long coat of blue Russian fox; silk-covered
air cushions, and delicately bound books. Behind came employes of the hotel, bearing rugs and
other luggage; but the big man who had helped the lady from the car did not appear. We had
seen his back only, yet the impression lingered in my mind that he was no servant, but a gentleman,
a personage of worldly as well as physical magnitude.

The lady went toward the desk, then paused, and with an imperious and impatient little gesture
directed one of her maids to untie her thick blue veil. The knot was loosened with a skilful
touch, and the face of Mrs. Ballantree MacDonald was revealed. For a moment or two we saw it
only in profile, as she talked with the people at the desk, and bade the elder of her two women
write in the visitors' book. Then, as she turned away to go to the lift, we were favoured with
the full blaze of her celebrated beauty.

It is three years since I saw her last, in America, but she has not changed, unless to look
younger. She might not be a day over twenty-five, and her figure is as slender, as spirited,
and as graceful as a girl's. She advanced more or less in our direction, though without seeing
us, and her walk was peculiarly attractive--slightly self-conscious and suggestive of the actress,
perhaps, but light as a smoke wreath. If she makes up off the stage, she is so skilful that
she beats Nature at Nature's own game. Her complexion, with the gray-blue veil flowing in folds
on either side her face, looked pearly, and the rippling lines of her red hair glittered like
new copper. It was impossible she should not know that every one in the big hall was gazing
at her; but such was her self-control, gained in long experience as a beauty and popular favourite,
that she seemed not to see any one. Hers was not a morose remoteness, however. That might have
offended admirers and kept money out of the theatre. It was the radiant unawareness of a passing
sunbeam.

A few more seconds and this charming figure, framed in floating clouds of chiffon, would have
reached the door of the lift, to be wafted out of sight like a pantomime fairy. But Barrie
could no longer be held within bounds, for the great moment of her life had come. She darted
away from us, her figure as tall, more youthful, more willowy, and more charming than the other,
though singularly like in movement and in outline. The resemblance between the beautiful woman
and the beautiful girl produced the effect of contrast, and ruthlessly dug a chasm of years
between them. Suddenly, as they stood face to face, Mrs. Bal--who had been young as morning--reached
the rich maturity of summer noon.

The thing Somerled would have prevented had happened; but the reins were out of his hands,
and it would do more harm than good to snatch at them. None of us moved, but we were nearer
than any one else to the mother and daughter, near enough to hear every word they said to each
other.

"Oh, mother, it's I--your daughter Barrie, come to find you," the girl faltered. "You know--Barribel.
You named me. I've run away from Grandma----"

"My goodness--gracious!" gasped Mrs. Bal, her brown eyes immense. In her groping bewilderment,
her blank amaze, she looked younger again, her rather full face very round, almost childish,
her dimples deepening in the peachy flush of her cheeks. She stared at Barrie as if the girl
were a doll come alive--an extremely complicated, elaborate, embarrassing doll, copied from
herself and let loose upon the world. And Barrie did not take her eyes from the beautiful,
surprised face for an instant. In her wistful suspense she scarcely breathed. "Oh, do love
me--do be glad to see me!" her soul implored through its wide-open windows.

The silence, falling after Mrs. Bal's astonished gasp, lasted but an instant, though it seemed
long to us who waited. To others at a distance, others who knew nothing of the story, whose
sight and hearing were not morbidly sharpened, the little scene probably meant no more than
a surprise meeting between the well-known actress and a very pretty girl enough like her to
be a sister. But to us who did know the story--and something of Mrs. Bal--the pause was like
the pause in court while the jury is absent.

Mrs. Bal was thinking, observing, making up her mind. Suddenly she broke out laughing--a nervous,
yet impish laugh, and seized the girl by both hands. At the same time she bent forward--not
down, for Barrie is as tall as she--kissed the girl on both cheeks, and whispered something.

It was a brief whisper. She could have said no more than half a dozen words, but they stupefied
Barrie. She threw back her head, almost as if to avoid a blow. Tears sprang to her eyes, and
she pressed her lips together in a spasmodic effort at self-control. The bright rose-red of
excitement was drained from her face; but she did not draw away from her mother, who still
held the girl's hands. All she did was to turn her head with a bird-like quickness and fling
one glance at Somerled.

I don't know whether or not she meant it as a call. Probably she didn't herself know what she
meant. Only, she was in need of help, of comfort, and involuntarily turned to the strongest,
most dependable personality in her small world. I would have given all my faculty as a writer--my
dearest possession--to have been in Somerled's place--to have had her appealing to me while
her air-castle crumbled.

He went to her at once, and spoke to Mrs. Bal, who had not seen him till that instant. She
blushed slightly at sight of him, I noticed; and I wondered whether she had flirted, or tried
to flirt, in the past with the artist-millionaire. It was impossible to guess whether she were
pleased or displeased, but evidently his appearance on the scene was ruffling in one way or
another to the lady's emotions. "This is a surprise!" I heard her say, in a softer, fuller
tone than she had had time to put into her first sharp exclamation at sight of Barrie.

Then both voices dropped. The two talked together while the girl stood by in silence, pale
and expectant, depending on Somerled. Mrs. Bal said something which made Somerled laugh--one
of his cynical laughs, such as I hadn't heard from him lately. Not once had he looked at Barrie.
All his attention was for the mother. She asked a question. Answering it, he indicated Mrs.
James and me.

"Oh, please introduce them!" Mrs. Bal commanded pleasantly.

This was a signal for us to approach.

"Mr. Basil Norman," she said. "You are the author, of course. How nice to meet you! Of course
I read your books. And your sister who collaborates--where is she?"

"I don't know yet whether she's arrived or not," I explained. "I meant to ask at the desk----"

"I want to know her. Please tell her so. And this is Mrs. James. Why, yes, of course! I remember
you--in the days of my captivity." She laughed a childlike, impish laugh. (Barrie has one rather
like it, but more spontaneous, less effective.) "You haven't changed."

"Oh, thank you, dear Mrs. MacDonald," exclaimed the little woman, radiant with pleasure--for
I've found out that her two great desires are to keep her youthful looks, and to be intellectually
worthy of the vanished doctor. "I'm sure you are not in the least altered, though it must be
seventeen years----"

"Oh, my dear Mrs. James, don't--please don't!" cried Mrs. Bal, laughing and dimpling, and holding
up both gloved hands in mock prayer. "Don't mention the number of years. This is getting to
be simply awful. Shock after shock!" She laughed again, glancing roguishly at Barrie. "I want
you all to come to my sitting-room--this very minute--to hold a council of war. It's most necessary.
You dear, pretty child"--this adorably to her daughter--"how much more mischief have you done
already? How many people have you let into the ghastly secret?"

Barrie hung her head, and looked down. She must have known that sympathetic eyes were on her,
and have wished to avoid them. "There's only Mrs. West and--and--I suppose her friends the
Vannecks--and Mr. Douglas--a Lieutenant Douglas----"

"Horror! Their name is legion. What a scrape. Well, I must appeal to their mercy. Please come
up with me, everybody, and we'll talk it over and see what's to be done. There isn't a moment
to lose."

By this time I began to guess what she was driving at, though the dazed expression of Mrs.
James told me that she was still in the dark.

We got into the lift and were shot up to the next floor, nothing being said on the way except
a conventional word or two about the motoring weather. "I came in a friend's car--I'll tell
you all about it," Mrs. Bal added as she led the way to her rooms.

The two maids had arrived on the scene already. Doors were open; luggage was being taken in
under the direction of the red-haired ones; but in the large sitting-room there was no sign
of confusion. Quantities of flowers adorned it, in tall glass vases and gilded baskets tied
with ribbons. Signed photographs of royalties and generals and judges, the latest aviators
and successful explorers, all in monogrammed silver frames, were scattered on mantel and tables
and piano-top. There were plump cushions of old brocade on the several sofas and lounges. The
largest table had a strip of rare Persian embroidery laid across it, and was graced rather
than laden with novels, boxes of sweets, and silver bonbonnières. Evidently the maid who had
come in advance had had her hands full!

"I must have pretty things to give me a home feeling. Touring would be too horrid without that,"
she laughed. (Mrs. Bal laughs often in private life; what clever woman with dimples does not?)
"Now, sit down, and let us discuss this desperate situation. But first--come here, Barribel.
I want to look at you."

Barrie came. Mrs. Bal caught the girl's hands, and held her out at arm's length.

"You pretty creature!" she exclaimed. "Oh!" and she threw an appeal to us. "To think I should
be the mother of THAT! Isn't it simply appalling? But I can't be, you know. I can't be her
mother. Now can I? I've told her already--I had to decide in a flash. I admire her immensely,
and we're going to be fond of each other and the greatest chums. But we must be sisters."

Then I knew what she had whispered to make Barrie start and blanch. She had said, "I won't
be your mother." And Barrie had turned involuntarily to Somerled because she had felt herself
unwanted and her heart was breaking.

All this was preparing me for a career of villainy, though I must say in self-defence that
it was Aline who lit the match. "The woman tempted me, and I did eat!"

"Come and sit by me, lovely doll," said Mrs. Bal, pulling the girl down beside her on the most
cushiony and comfortable sofa. "So you are the baby! I haven't forgotten you. I've thought
of you a lot--really a lot. But you never seemed mine, you know. They wouldn't let me feel
you belonged to me. They were so good! Of course I had to leave you for--for them to take care
of. They thought they knew everything about babies. I dare say they were right. I had to escape.
I couldn't have lived with them another day, in that awful house. But I've been oh, so proper,
and good, really. Even they could have hardly been shocked. And I've hired three red-haired
watch-dogs. But it isn't only myself I want to talk about--it's you. I do think you're the
prettiest thing I ever saw--though I oughtn't to say so, perhaps, because I believe we're alike.
Aren't we, Somerled?"

"In some ways, not in others," dryly returned the gentleman addressed.

"Oh, I know the differences are in her favour--Diogenes! All the more reason why I can't possibly
own her for a daughter. My yearly profits would go down a hundred per cent. And although she's
perfectly darling, and I'm going to love her--as a sister--she couldn't have come to me at
a worse moment."

"Oh--why?" pleaded Barrie, speaking for the first time.

"Because--you may as well hear this, all of you, since I've called you to a council of war.
I want you to realize"--and she gave each of us a look in turn: a lovely, characteristic "Mrs.
Bal" look--"that I'm on my knees to you. I've thrown myself on your mercy. You've got to help
me out. The truth is"--she began taking off her gloves and looking down at her own hands, her
rings sparkling as the pink and white fingers were bared--"the truth is, I'm a little--a tiny
little bit--tired of acting. I'd like to leave the stage in a blaze of glory while everybody
wants me and there's no one to take my place. There's only one trouble--I'm so horribly extravagant.
I always have been. I'm afraid I always shall be. I make heaps of money, but I can't save.
If I say good-bye to the theatre, I shall want millions. I don't feel I can rub along on less.
So that means--I shall have to marry somebody else's millions, for I haven't got the ghost
of one of my own."

As she explained her position she looked deliberately past Somerled and out at the window.
This made me sure that a vague suspicion of mine was founded on fact. Mrs. Bal had angled for
Somerled, and he had been one of her few failures. She couldn't be pleased at encountering
him again as her daughter's self-appointed guardian and champion. It seemed to me that the
situation complicated itself, to Somerled's disadvantage; therefore--it might be--to the advantage
of the next nearest man, myself.

"There is some one," Mrs. Bal went on, with a slight but lessening constraint, "who--rather
likes me, and I rather like him--better than I can remember liking anybody. He's got lots of
money. His name is Morgan Bennett. Somerled--you know him."

"Yes," said Somerled. "I thought his back looked familiar."

So the big fellow who helped Mrs. Bal out of the blue car (also big, in proportion to the size
of the owner and his fortune) was Morgan P. Bennett of New York, the Tin Trust millionaire.
Somerled's puny horde of millions dwindle into humble insignificance beside Morgan Bennett's
pile. If Somerled has made two millions out of his mines and successful speculations, and a
few extra thousands out of his pictures, M. P. Bennett has made twenty millions out of tin--and
unlimited cheek. He is so big that his pet name in Wall Street used to be "The Little Tin Soldier."

"He has been--dangling lately," Mrs. Bal went on. "Oh, nothing settled! I confess I wish it
were. I mean to take him if he asks me, and I think he will. You wouldn't believe it, but he's
a shy man with women. I do believe he's frightened to propose. He's bought a house in London,
in my favourite square. And now he's taken a shooting-lodge in Forfarshire--such an amusing
place: a huge round house with as many eyes as in a peacock's tail, all staring cheerfully,
and high chimneys grouped together like bundles of asparagus. I've just been staying there
with his sister, Mrs. Payne, whom I believe he imported from America on purpose to play gooseberry.
You know--or perhaps you don't--I tried my new play for the first time in Dundee, just one
night, and it went gorgeously. This house of his isn't far off, and I was motored back and
forth for rehearsals and so on, while the company stayed in town. I simply fell in love with
the place; and he's trying to buy it--to please me, I hope. There's a round porter's lodge
and a round garage: and the round house stands on a round lawn with a round road running round
it like a belt, so that it all seems the centre of a round world with the sun moving round
it. He brought me from there to Edinburgh to-day, and two of my maids in another car. He won't
stop here in the same hotel with me, of course, but he'll drop in now and then--naturally--and
he's taken his box at the theatre for the whole week. We must arrange this sister business
before he calls. I've confessed to him that I'm twenty-nine, and it's perfectly true. I've
been twenty-nine for several years. But he'd hardly believe me so old. And what should I do--I
ask you all--if a grown-up--oh, but an extremely grown-up--daughter suddenly loomed over my
horizon? Even if I put back her clock to fifteen instead of--never mind!--I couldn't manage
to be less than thirty-one, and that with the greatest difficulty. Now you see how I am placed."

"Shall I go away and--and save you all the bother?" asked Barrie, in a very small voice.

"Oh, no, no, dear child; nothing of the sort, of course," protested Mrs. Bal, patting the hands
which Barrie held tightly clasped together in her lap. "You mustn't be naughty and misunderstand.
I don't want to lose you like that, now you've taken all the trouble to find me--with the help
of our good Somerled. But--will you be a sister to me?--as popular men have to say in Leap Year."

"I'll do whatever you want me to do," Barrie answered in the same little voice, like that of
a chidden child. "Am I--would you like me to stay with you here, or----"

"Why, I suppose"--Mrs. Bal showed that she was startled--"I suppose we must fix up a place
for you--for a few days. But I don't see how you can go with me on tour. It wouldn't be good
for you at all. The best way is for us to have a nice little visit together, and get acquainted
with each other, and then perhaps I'd better send you to--er--to my flat in London, or--to
boarding-school, or somewhere. I quite understand you wouldn't go back to your grandmother
at any price, would you?"

"I'd rather do that than be a trouble to you," said Barrie. "Only, I don't think she'd take
me back. But I could try----"

"Certainly Mrs. Ballantree MacDonald won't hear of your going back to live in Carlisle, I'm
sure," said Somerled, looking somehow formidable to reckon with as his eyes met Mrs. Bal's.
Then, to the girl's mother: "I am connected with her father's family in a way, you know, and
I took advantage of the connection to make Mrs. MacDonald's acquaintance at Hillard House,
after I'd met--her granddaughter. The arrangement between us was that I should play guardian
pro tem. So if you want any advice about--Miss MacDonald's future, perhaps you'll be good enough
to let me help you."

"Thanks, oh, thanks! I accept gratefully," replied Mrs. Bal, who had no doubt already heard
downstairs some few words explaining Barrie's presence with our party in Scotland. "And you'll
tell everybody she's my sister, won't you?"

"I'll not say anything to the contrary," he promised grimly.

"And you, Mr. Norman? You, dear Mrs. James?"

"I'll protect the secret with my life," said I, laughing. If I were a woman, I should have
been hysterical by this time.

"I'll keep my mouth shut," replied Mrs. James, with pitying eyes that said to the girl, "If
I were your mother, dear child, young as I like to look, I'd be proud to own you!"

"What about your American victims?" I inquired of Barrie.

Mrs. Bal pricked up her ears. "What victims?" she asked before her daughter had time to speak.

"Four young men who have prostrated themselves under Miss MacDonald's chariot," I explained.
"All who see her do this." In adding the little tribute I meant well; but I saw in an instant
that I'd been tactless. Mrs. Bal regarded the girl reflectively; and that uncomfortable faculty
I have for reading people's thoughts told me she was repeating to herself, "Ah, so all the
men who see this child fall in love with her, do they? H'm!"

"They--I never talked to them about--about having a--mother," Barrie stammered.

"And this Mr. Douglas?" Mrs. Bal asked. "Is he too a 'victim?'"

"He appears to be something of the sort," I was obliged to answer, as she appealed to me. "The
Douglas Heart, you know! And he has a cousin with whom he's staying----"

"Oh, do, dear Mr. Norman, like an angel of mercy 'square' them for me, will you, and all the
others who know?" Mrs. Bal implored, ostentatiously ignoring Somerled, who had too evidently
gone over to the younger generation. "Your sister, too--and her friends? Will you go and see
if they have come, and if they have, bring them here--or plead my cause eloquently, or something?"

"I'll go at once," I agreed, rising. On principle, I disliked and despised the gorgeous, selfish
creature; but there was that in me which longed to please her, and delighted in being chosen
as her defender, over the head of Somerled, so to speak. I was not sorry to escape from the
scene which Barrie's pale face and o'er-bright eyes made very trying; also I was really anxious
to find out if Aline had come. If she had not, I should begin to worry about her and the poor
old car--to say nothing of the tribe of Vanneck.

As I went out, I heard Mrs. Bal exclaim, "Oh, by the way, if she's to be my sister, she can't
be a MacDonald, She'll have to take the name of Ballantree. It was my maiden name, you know."

A disagreeable surprise awaited me outside. I learned that, while we'd been out after luncheon,
my sister and the Vannecks had come, but that Aline had had a mishap. She'd been wearing a
motor-mask veil, according to her custom, in order to protect her complexion. The talc front
over her face had been damaged in the morning's storm, and somehow her eyes were injured. I
should have received the news sooner had I gone to the desk instead of following Mrs. Ballantree
MacDonald upstairs.

Off I hurried to Aline's room, where I found Mrs. Vanneck with my sister, and an oculist whom
George had hurried out to fetch. The poor girl was suffering, and a good deal frightened, though
we tried to console her. As she went to the window to be examined by the specialist, I could
see that her face and hair and lilac silk blouse were covered with a powder of talc, which
sparkled like diamond dust. Her eyes and lids were full of the stuff, it proved, and she cried
with nervousness and pain as the oculist proceeded to get it all out.

It was impossible to speak to her of Barrie and Mrs. Ballantree MacDonald, but I told Maud
Vanneck, who, though mildly horrified, promised for herself and her brothers that the secret
should not be revealed.

When I returned to Mrs. Bal's sitting-room, I found Somerled and Mrs. James gone. Barrie was
alone with her newly found--sister, and a more forlorn little figure than our young goddess
it would be hard to imagine. Andromeda chained to her rock could not have looked more dismally
deserted by her friends. A room had been taken for her, and she was now transformed into Miss
Barribel Ballantree. "What a good thing I wouldn't let her be called Barbara after me," said
Mrs. Bal. "We should have had to change her whole name, and that would have been really awkward!"

I should have retired at once, when my errand was done, but Mrs. Bal would not let me go. I
think, for one thing, she wasn't at ease with Barrie alone; and for another, she wanted to
see if I too were a victim of this young person who might perhaps turn out a formidable rival
as well as an inconvenient daughter. Barrie evidently wished me to stay; and I made no effort
to conceal my real feeling for the girl from either of them. I thought that now was the time
to let myself go. Barrie was inwardly yearning for comfort and love, and I opened the door
of my heart for her to see that it and all within were hers. I was on the spot, and Somerled
wasn't; so I hoped that Barrie might be thankful even for her "brother of the pen." Mrs. Bal's
bright, observant eyes saw and understood.

Presently she announced that she was rather tired, and would lie down, as there would be rehearsing
to-morrow in the theatre; and though she'd opened in Dundee, she would be almost as nervous
in Edinburgh as on a first night. Her maid was rung for. The eldest and reddest one came. Barrie
and I went out together, I longing for a few words in the corridor, or at least a friendly
pressure of the hand. But I saw that she was in no condition to be spoken to. The reaction
was coming on, and I let her go at once. She almost ran down the passage to a room not far
away, and slammed the door.

       *       *       *       *       *

Neither Mrs. Bal nor Barrie appeared again that evening. Presumably they had dinner together
in Mrs. Bal's quarters; and the heather moon shone as through a glass darkly for the rest of
us. Aline was ordered to keep her room for the next few days, which settled our plans--or hers,
at all events. And we were a party of men dining that night, the two Vannecks and Somerled
and I, for Mrs. James "had a headache," and Maud kept Aline company.

The great Somerled was reflective if not morose. I wondered what his schemes were concerning
Barrie, for I imagined uneasily that he was working with some idea; and if I didn't mean to
sit still and let him cage the dove while it fluttered homeless and forlorn, I must come out
of my corner into the open to fight for it.

After dinner Aline sent for me, and her message included Somerled, if he could "spare her a
few minutes." He could and did with a good grace. We went together to the small sitting-room,
which looked dull compared with Mrs. Bal's decorated background, though George Vanneck and
I had done our best, on an Edinburgh Sunday, in the way of roses. Somerled had forgotten to
incarnate his sympathy in flower form, and I read remorse in his eyes as they fell upon Aline,
piteous and prostrate.

Electric light was not permitted, and the room was lit only by a few green-shaded candles which
made the invalid ethereally pale. She reclined on a sofa and wore her best tea-gown, or whatever
women call those loose classic-looking robes nowadays. It was white, and becoming. She had
built up a wall of cushions, against which she leaned, and her hair was done in two long plaits
under a fetching lace cap which gave her a Marie Antoinette effect. This hair-arrangement interested
me scientifically, because when I breakfast with Aline in our private sitting-room at a hotel,
she often has her hair hanging down, and it has never looked so long nor so thick as it did
on this occasion. She must have had some clever way of plumping it out. Her eyes being tender
and inflamed had temporarily lost their beauty, so she had tied over them a folded lace handkerchief
or small scarf.

"You look like a model for a classic figure of Justice," said Somerled--"all but your smart
Paris cap."

"Why, was Justice blind? I thought that was Love," said Maud Vanneck, gayly airing her ignorance.
I couldn't help thinking--nor could Somerled, I'm sure--that Aline looked more like Love-in-a-mist
than stern Justice; but I feared that he had definitely ceased to regard her from the love
point of view, if ever he'd inclined to it.

Aline, who had heard nothing yet about Mrs. Bal, was anxious for the story. I saw that Somerled
desired me to speak, but I threw the responsibility on him. I wanted to know how he would tell
the story; but I might have guessed that he would be as laconic, as non-committal as possible,
and that, much as he might yearn to do so, he would not criticise Barrie's mother.

"I think she admired her daughter," he said quietly, "but being what she is, and looking no
more than twenty-five, what can one expect? Of course the sister fraud will be found out sooner
or later; but the important thing in Mrs. Bal's mind seems to be that it shall be later."

"Is it right for us to help her deceive poor Mr. Bennett?" asked Maud Vanneck, who is a person
of earnest convictions.

I chuckled at hearing the big chap called "poor," perhaps for the first time in his life; and
even Somerled smiled.

"None of us are pledging ourselves to lie for the lady," said he. "We simply hold our tongues.
If Bennett asks Mrs. Bal to be his wife, he's not the sharp man of affairs he's supposed to
be if he expects to find her a mirror of truth. When he discovers that she has a grown-up daughter
he'll shrug his shoulders, and perhaps never even let her know she's been found out. I'm not
very well acquainted with Bennett, but I've met him a few times, and his most agreeable social
quality seems to me his strong, rather rough sense of humour. I expect he'll see the funny
side of being hoodwinked by Mrs. Bal. And a few years more or less on her age--what do they
matter to him? He's forty-five; and on the whole he couldn't get a wife to suit him better."

"I have a sneaking sympathy with Mrs. Bal," confessed Aline, in her gentlest voice. "She's
conquered all of you men, and has no further fear of you; but I feel that she's trembling in
her shoes because of Maud and me. I should love to reassure her and let her know that we're
not cats."

"Shall I take her a message?" I suggested, trying not to seem too eager. "I'm sure she'd like
to get it."

Aline smiled indulgently. "Poor boy, doesn't he want me to say 'yes?' It's too late this evening,
I'm afraid; but call on her and Barrie early to-morrow morning, and ask if she'd care to drop
in on the poor invalid, on her way to rehearsal. I'd better see Mrs. Bal alone. She may want
to say things she wouldn't wish Barrie to hear--don't you think so, Mr. Somerled? And, by the
way, now your little ward is--more or less--safe in other hands, have you settled your future
plans?"

"I expect to have something mapped out to-morrow," Somerled answered.

"You'll go on with your trip--your rest cure--I suppose, as you meant to when we--that is,
before you were saddled with all this responsibility?"

"I've been looking forward to Edinburgh, from the first," said he, evasively.

Aline saw that she would get no more satisfaction, and ceased to risk irritating him; but after
her guests had bidden her good-night, she kept me for a talk.

Of course she made me describe the scene between Barrie and her mother, but she was more interested
to know how Somerled had looked, what he had said and done, than in my opinion of Mrs. Bal.

"What do you think he means to do?" she appealed to me, desperately. "Do you think he's so
infatuated with Barrie that he'll offer to take the girl off her mother's hands and marry her?"

"I've been studying Somerled for both our sakes," I said. "What I think is, he's been telling
himself the girl is too young and all that, and ought to have a chance to meet a lot of other
men. Yet he's seen how she unconsciously attracts every male creature who comes along, and
that it's a danger for her if----"

"Unconsciously attracts! But I forgot, you're infatuated too. And she doesn't attract everybody.
George Vanneck hardly considers her pretty. He can't bear this rising generation of long-legged
young colts, he says; and he calls her hair carrots."

"We'll cross George off the list. It's long enough without him, and increasing with leaps and
bounds. There'll probably be more names on it by to-morrow night" (evidently I have a prophetic
soul). "But to go back to Somerled. Of course he foresaw something of what happened to-day:
but Barrie's face when Mrs. Bal suggested being a sister to her was enough to turn a man of
marble into a man of fire; and I don't think Somerled's resolutions up to that point were as
hard even as sandstone. He must see now, as I do, that there'll be no place for the poor child
with her mother, whether Mrs. Bal marries a millionaire or goes gayly on with her career as
an actress. What is to become of a girl like Barrie, left to her own devices, with every man--well,
let's say every second man--who passes, stopping to flirt if not to propose? My fear is that
Somerled's resolutions are turning round the other way, and that he's contemplating himself
as permanent guardian--if Barrie'll take him."

"Take him! She'll snap at him. She shows her feelings in the most disgusting way. Oh, my dear
boy! I apologize. But I have feelings too--as you know only too well."

"I'm afraid she is getting to like him," I said, "but I persuade myself, anyhow, that she's
more in love with love in general than with Somerled in particular. She's under the influence
of the heather moon."

"I'm not going to let her have Somerled!" Aline cried out sharply. "I can't bear it. Can you?"

"I'm an idiot about the girl," I admitted. "I get worse every day. The more flies that collect
round the honey the more I want it myself. I didn't know I was that sort of person, but I am.
The worst of it is, she calls me her brother, which is fatal."

"No, it isn't. It shan't be," said Aline. "I shall get her for you."

"Thank you very much," said I.

"I'm not joking. An idea is on its way to me. I've been seeing it dimly for days, but its success
depended a good deal on Mrs. Bal. Now, her being afraid of me makes it easier. I can't lie
here idle, with all this going on--yet I can't let him see me as I am. My eyes look hideous.
They're pink, like an albino's. Otherwise I wouldn't listen to the oculist. But I must do something.
I begin to see what I can do, if you'll go on helping me and yourself, and not be a fool."

"I won't be more of a fool than Nature made me," I assured her, "though I may be a fool to
love that girl."

"No, for you can make her care. Of course you can. She's hardly more than a child."

"You were married at eighteen," I reminded my sister. "At least you always tell people you were."

"If you were a woman, you'd be a thorough cat! It's true--I wasn't much more, but I was mature
in mind. I'd seen the world. Barrie MacDonald will make you happy. You'll play together all
your lives, and she can take my place, helping you to write stories. It will be quite a romance
for the newspapers. And when she's out of sight, out of mind with Ian Somerled, he'll realize
that she wasn't the right one. He'll come back to me, and see that I was always meant for him."

"A woman's instinct is often right. Also many a heart is caught in the rebound," said I, falling
back on proverbs. And in this way, with the talc that entered Aline's eyes, malice entered
our hearts. Thus we took up our parts of (alleged) villain and villainess.

       *       *       *       *       *

Next morning, as early as I dared, I sent to ask if I might give Mrs. Ballantree MacDonald
a message from my sister. Word came back that she would see me at once. Five minutes later
I was knocking at the door of her sitting-room, and, obeying her "Come in," found myself in
the presence of a Vision. She was in one of those tea-gown arrangements like Aline's, only
more so. She had a cap which, I fear, would have made Aline's look, as they expressively say
on the other side, "like thirty cents." And if Morgan P. Bennett had seen the beautiful Barbara
then, he would have proposed without hesitating another second. That is, he would have done
so if Barrie hadn't come in before he began. She did come while I was giving Aline's message
to Mrs. Bal, and though she looked as if she hadn't slept, to me she was more lovable than
ever. I tried to convince myself that Aline was right; that this girl and I were made for each
other; that, if I could take her away from Somerled, she and I were bound to be happy together
forever after.

Mrs. Bal explained that she was later than usual because she had not had a good night, and
her chief maid, in reality a trained nurse, had been giving her electric massage.

"Now I feel equal," she added, "to tackling the world, the flesh, et le diable. Mrs. West is
the world. Morgan Bennett's the flesh(he weighs two hundred pounds!) and--I shall be the devil.
I always am at a rehearsal. But the mood shan't come on while I'm with your sister. Now I must
go and get dressed. I'll not be fifteen minutes. Really! You don't know what I can do in the
flying line, when I choose. You may stay and amuse--my little sister."

I knew better than to ask questions. If the girl wanted sympathy she could find it in my eyes,
but she would resent pity. I praised Mrs. Bal, and found that I'd struck the right note.

"Yes!" Barrie exclaimed. "Isn't mother--I mean Barbara--gloriously beautiful? She wants me
to call her Barbara, and I shall love it. I shall love to do whatever she wants me to do, I'm
sure, because she's such a darling. Everybody must want to do what she wants them to do, whether
it's right or wrong--though she wouldn't want anything she thought wrong, of course. Just fancy,
she's given me heaps of pretty things. I begged her not, but she would make me take them--a
string of pearls, and this ring--my very first!" (How I wish that I had put her "very first"
ring--or kiss--on the finger she displayed!) "And two bangles--and she's going to pay back
Sir S.--I mean Mr. Somerled" (so she has her own name for him!)--"the money he lent me for
my father's brooch. Barbara doesn't want the brooch. I'm to keep it. And she says she'll give
me an allowance--but she expects Grandma to leave me everything in her will. I don't--and I'd
rather not, though moth----Barbara thinks I shall some day be quite well off. I fancied we
were very poor, but Barbara says Grandma must have got back nearly all that was lost, by saving."

I guess that the girl was making talk to show me how well satisfied she was with everything;
but whenever she met my eyes she looked away, to interest herself in some photograph or ornament.

In less than the promised fifteen minutes Mrs. Bal appeared again, very lovely and ridiculously
young in a short blue serge dress, with a turned down collar that showed her firm white throat.
I was allowed to remain with Barrie while "Barbara" went up to see my sister; and the ice being
broken between us, we chatted comfortably of everyday things, I unreasonably happy because
I had got in ahead of Somerled for once. It began to seem like a game of chess between us;
I--directed by Aline--playing against Somerled. If Aline upstairs were at this minute making
the move she planned, it would be check to his queen, Barrie of course being queen.

The only questions I ventured to ask the girl, and those in a casual way, were, "Had she heard
from or seen Somerled since yesterday afternoon? And what was the programme for her, during
this week of the new play in Edinburgh?"

Her answers were that she had neither seen nor heard from Somerled, and that she didn't know
what she was to do during the week. She hoped to see something of Edinburgh. She supposed we--and
Mr. Somerled--would soon be leaving for the west or north. But she had written Mr. Douglas,
by Barbara's request, and he was very nice. He might be counted on to show her things. He was
invited to call this afternoon with his cousin. Jack Morrison had written asking to come too,
and Barbara said that he might do so--bringing his three friends. She--Barrie--must be very,
very careful always to say "Barbara" and never--the other. She could quite understand now how
the darling felt, though it had seemed queer at first.

By and by Mrs. Bal returned, and I saw by the light in her eyes and the colour on her cheeks
that the conversation with Aline had been interesting. Hardly had she arrived and begun demanding
from her various maids various things wanted at the theatre, when Somerled sent up to beg a
moment's talk with her.

"Tell the gentleman I shall be delighted," she said to the hotel servant: and I saw that she
was smiling the impish smile which Barrie has inherited.

"So glad you came before I got away!" she exclaimed, shaking hands with Somerled. "Five minutes
more and I should have missed you. I'm due at the theatre now. The poor wretches are rehearsing
without me, but I must turn up for a scene, at eleven!"

"I won't keep you five minutes," said Somerled, quietly. "I only want to ask if you'll let
Barrie--provided she'd like it--" he glanced at the girl, whose eyes brightened--"take a few
excursions with her friend Mrs. James and me, in my car this week. You'll be busy and----"

"I should have been delighted, and I'm sure Barrie would," broke in Mrs. Bal, "but you're just
too late. A new thing for you, isn't it? I've been having the most charming visit with Mrs.
West, who is better, but must keep to her rooms for two or three days. Her car will be eating
its head off unless it's used, and I've promised that her friends the Vannecks--such nice people!
I met them in Mrs. West's sitting-room--and Mr. Norman shall have Barrie for--probably--the
very excursions you have in mind. Too bad! But first come, first served! You've all been so
good to this girl, one hardly knows how to choose between you. But I thought Mrs. James was
going home at once? I understood from Barrie that she said so last night?"

"She has decided to stay until the little surprise I'm trying to arrange for her, comes off--or
on. She doesn't know what it is, but she pays me the compliment of taking it on trust. She'll
be disappointed at having to give up the motor runs she was looking forward to with Barrie."

"You've plenty of old friends in Edinburgh, I'm sure," suggested Mrs. Bal, "and you can make
up a party to console dear Mrs. James for the loss of Barrie."

"I don't believe Mrs. James can be induced to take any excursions without Barrie," said Somerled:
which meant that he didn't intend to leave Edinburgh while the girl was in it and at the mercy
of her erratic parent. I thought he was anxious Barrie should understand that he was not going
to desert her. Perhaps she did understand, for she is quick in penetration; but her own pride,
and loyalty to Mrs. Bal, kept her from showing that she felt need of protection, or even that
she supposed Somerled to be offering it. She did show, however, that it grieved her to refuse
his invitation. She took the "tip" he gave and put it all upon Mrs. James: how sorry she was
not to do any more sight-seeing with dear Mrs. James. But I knew that the name in her heart
was not the name on her tongue.

Aline had scored. I wanted to know just how, and how far, but I determined not to leave Barrie
with Somerled. I needn't have worried, however, for Mrs. Bal and I had the same thought. She
asked if Barrie would like to go to the theatre with her and watch a rehearsal. Naturally,
Barrie said yes, and Somerled and I saw them off in the smaller of the two motor-cars which
Morgan Bennett had placed at Mrs. Bal's service for the Edinburgh week. As for Bennett himself,
he was apparently "lying low," by her wish or his own; but I expected to see him at the theatre
that night. Of course, we were all going to turn out in full force for "The Nelly Affair."
Somerled had taken a box, he told me, and proceeded to invite the whole party; but there also
Aline had got in ahead. During Mrs. Bal's call upon her, they had arranged that the Vannecks
and I should sit with Barrie in stalls offered by the Star. Mrs. Bal had (she assured us fluently,
before starting off in her car) intended asking Somerled and Mrs. James too, and stalls were
provided for them. But as he had already engaged a box, she would give the seats to the two
Douglases. Perhaps he--Somerled--would have room in his box for those nice American boys, of
whom Barrie seemed so fond?

Aline was eagerly waiting for me to come back and congratulate her upon her great success.
She wanted to tell me everything; but her desire to talk was nothing compared with my yearning
to hear.

"It's all right," she began. "I've made a bargain with Mrs. Bal. I told her you were in love
with Barrie. That's the way I broke the ice, after I'd paid her compliments and she'd sympathized
about my eyes. I said I'd keep her secret, and answer for the Vannecks, if she'd give you a
chance with Barrie."

"By Jove!" I grumbled. "You didn't mince matters between you! Anything said about Somerled?"

"Why, I told her that the child was fancying herself in love with Ian, and behaving rather
foolishly. And I said that Ian was naturally flattered, but that he was the last man to marry
a baby like Barrie; and if we didn't act quickly, the poor little girl might suffer. You must
have noticed, Basil, that Mrs. Bal doesn't like Ian Somerled."

"I've noticed that she takes an impish delight in thwarting him."

"That's because he once thwarted her. She admitted as much. Or, at least she said she asked
him to paint her portrait, and he did paint it. When the picture was finished, he gave it to
her, and didn't even make himself a copy."

"Well," I replied, puzzled, "I don't see anything in that to upset her. Even for a beauty like
Mrs. Bal it's a compliment to be painted by Somerled. And surely it was a mark of regard to
make her a present of the picture, when he can get from a thousand to five thousand pounds
for anything he chooses to do."

"Oh, you man," exclaimed Aline. "And you pretend to be a student of women's characters! Of
course Mrs. Bal was furious because he didn't beg to do her portrait and then make two, one
for her, and one for himself. Fancy my having to explain! And besides, there must have been
more than that in the affair. She wouldn't have asked him to paint the picture if she hadn't
wanted to see him often alone, and make him fall in love with her. His giving her the portrait
was a kind of defiance, to show her that he didn't care that for the original."

"Oh, well, if you think so!" said I.

"Mrs. Bal thinks so. And she's enchanted to get her revenge. Not that she'd have chosen this
way, because, of course, it's a sickening thing to have Ian and all these men know that she's
old enough to be the mother of a grown-up daughter--and to be obliged to throw herself on their
mercy to help her out of the scrape. She laughs and pretends it's a joke, but she simply hates
it. I hinted to her that if you married the girl there'd be no talk ever about Barrie being
Mrs. Ballantree MacDonald's daughter. That should be forgotten, I said, though they could correspond
with each other and be good friends. Barrie would live in Canada with you, and be out of Mrs.
Bal's life altogether. And I impressed it upon her that your ideal existence was a quiet country
place. It was the same as telling her that she'd be rid of Barrie by giving her to you. Whereas,
if the girl should marry Ian, Somerled's wife would always be before the public eye, and everybody
would be sure to find out all about her. Mrs. Bal caught my meaning, you may be sure; and she
promised me that Barrie should go everywhere with us, or rather, with you and the Vannecks,
till I can get about. Anyhow, nowhere with Ian. Now, you see, I've done all I can for you."

"And for yourself," I was mean enough to add, for the thought of what we were doing together
was not a good thought, and it brought out the worst of me.

"I haven't any one to work for my interests. You have," she retorted; and as I'd no mind for
further recrimination I begged her pardon, thanked her gratefully, and proceeded to tell all
that had happened in Mrs. Bal's room. It was not pleasant for Aline to hear how prompt Somerled
had been in trying to relieve Mrs. Bal of her burden; but there was consolation in his disappointment.

"Do I look very horrid?" she questioned anxiously, "or do you think I might ask him to take
pity on me for a little while this afternoon, and sit here when you're all out sight-seeing?"

I reassured her, saying that her eyes looked no worse than if she'd been indulging in a "good
cry." She decided, however, that if Somerled came she would bandage them again and continue
to resemble Justice. I didn't ruffle her feelings by remarking that morally the resemblance
would be a parody.

When Maud Vanneck and I went, soon after luncheon, to ask if Barrie would walk in Princes Street,
with perhaps a stroll along the High Street, and on to Holyrood or the Castle, I found Mrs.
James in Mrs. Bal's sitting-room with the two Douglases and the four Americans. The mother
and daughter had returned late from rehearsal, and had just finished luncheon. Mrs. Bal had
a letter in her hand, which had evidently arrived with a box of orchids, probably a tribute
from Bennett; and the lady's desire to get us out of the way suggested the imminent arrival
of a caller worth keeping to herself.

Finally, it was arranged that we should all go out together, the Douglases assuring the rest
of us that they could open doors which would be shut to strangers.

"Where's Somerled?" I asked Mrs. James, in case he were condescending to lie in wait somewhere.

"When I saw him last," she replied, "he'd got an immense pile of foreign letters, and several
cablegrams. It looked as if he'd enough to occupy him the whole afternoon. Important business
I suppose; yet in spite of all, I believe he's been concerning himself with some surprise for
me. He may perhaps have news I shall like to hear when I get back. I expect he's been telling
some friend about those Stuart chairs I want to sell, and thinks he's got me a buyer."

The Douglases took us to see the Scotsman building, and the secret, inner workings of a great
newspaper. We descended from marble halls to vast underground regions, the lair of a monster
immeasurably more powerful than the Minotaur who ramped and raved under the Palace of Crete.
The roar of this modern Minotaur was as the noise of Niagara broken by stormy bursts of thunder.
It stunned the intelligence; it shrivelled the organs of speech like a dried kernel rattling
impotently in an old nutshell. It filled the world and made human happenings, such as individual
lives and deaths, seem of no more importance than the snapping of thumb and finger in front
of a cataract. I couldn't have lived in the tumult long and kept my wits; but we heard of an
employé who, when some tooth or nail in the enormous monster smote him, could not bear to stop
away long enough to complete his cure, because he was unable to bear the "awful stillness"
of the hospital. Persons of impregnable nerve-power let us deeper and deeper into the bowels
of the earth, showing us the dragon's brood, and his terrible wife whose business it is not
only to print the newspaper, but to cut its sheets, and eventually to lay them like eggs, at
the rate of thousands a minute: a most appalling creature she, who so battered my brain with
her accomplishments and the wild cackle she made over them, that weakly I let Barrie be snatched
from me by Donald Douglas.

In the roar and rush and riot I was incapable of caring, though vaguely I recalled the fact
that I had come out with the sole object of annexing the girl's society. Vaguely too, though
only vaguely, I resented the Douglas method; but I had my revenge almost before I recovered
sense enough to want it. There came, I know not why or how (perhaps one of the masters decreed
it, to strike our ears with the contrast), a sudden unexpected lull. It was only a comparative
lull, and it lasted no more than a few seconds; but there was time enough to hear Douglas yell
into Barrie's ear, "I must have you for my own."

The next instant he was purple through his soldier-tan. He knew the dragon and the dragon's
wicked wife had betrayed him, as he took advantage of their domestic clamour to speak in a
crowd as though he were alone with his love in the desert. What Barrie answered, or if she
had breath to answer, none of us could guess, though all, especially the four Americans, were
bursting with anxiety to know. Later, however, when we went up to the Castle (anything but
the Castle, with its thousand years of history, would have been an anticlimax after that wonderful
dragon cave), Donald Douglas walked meekly with his cousin, leaving Barrie to Jack Morrison.
As for me, I had temporarily lost my individuality, and with that roar still echoing through
my brain, vibrating through my nerves, I was glad to crawl along, talking to nobody, and picking
up dropped or untied bits of myself as I went. For the moment, frankly I didn't care how many
men proposed to Barrie, or whether she accepted them all. But afterward, it was different.
It occurred to me that Jack Morrison was not only a handsome and gallant fellow, but said to
be very rich, at least as rich as Somerled, and ten years younger. Aline and I might be mistaken
about the girl's feelings for Ian. Very likely it was no more than a romantic sort of gratitude;
and though I absolved the child from the smallest taint of mercenary motive, it was almost
impossible that a sleepless night had not given her some wise counsel. She was too sensitive
and quick-witted a girl, I reflected, not to have seen that she could not go on living with
her mother, and that it was a necessity to find a niche somewhere. All these young men saw
this also, though they knew no more than the fact that they were prayed to consider Mrs. Bal
an elder sister of "Miss Ballantree," therefore they were hastening to offer her sheltering
niches, more or less desirable. In other circumstances, they would have waited a few days,
long enough at least for Barrie to know which was which, and get their features and some of
their characteristics ticketed with the right labels; but as it was, each saw he had no time
to waste if he didn't want his friend or foe to get in ahead of him. While we were at the Castle,
looking at Mons Meg (which recalled Thrieve) and the banqueting-hall of armour with its faded
banners and fadeless memories; gaping at the mysterious place over the entrance door where,
in a bricked-up alcove, a baby skeleton was found wrapped in cloth of gold embroidered with
a royal monogram; walking through the wainscoted room where Mary of Guise died; gazing at the
long mislaid crown of Bruce ("the Honours of Scotland"); seeing sweet Queen Margaret's Chapel
where the Black Rood lay till it went in state down the hill to make Holyrood holy; peering
at the wall-stairway down which the Douglas boys were dragged after the "black dinner"; admiring
the kilted soldiers; and drinking in the view over hill and valley and mountains, towns and
nestling villages, the vast, colourful checkerboard of beautiful Mary Stuart's journeys, flights
and fightings: while beholding treasures and splendours which are as the red drops of Scotland's
heart's blood, man after man took his place at Barrie's side and became her cicerone. Each
talked with her awhile, and after a few brief minutes allowed a change of partners, the discarded
one humbly retiring to Mrs. James's side. It was really funny; or at least so it seemed until
enough self-assertion came back to admit of my entering the lists. Then I promptly lost my
sense of humour, and had no wish to look for it. I wanted only to look at Barrie, who was unusually
flushed and bright of eye.

By this time there wasn't much left to tell her about the Castle or the Castle Rock. When I
began to work off my erudition by mentioning the name of Edwin, for whom Edinburgh was named,
and who made it a royal borough in the eleventh century, she said:

"Oh, Mr. Douglas's cousin, the other Douglas, told me that!"

When I related the tale of that gallant Francis who was able to lead Sir Thomas Randolph and
thirty soldiers up the perilous rocks to surprise the Castle at night, having learned the way
when sweethearting down in the Grass-market, Barrie confessed that she had heard the story
already. Jack Morrison had found it in some old book he had bought at the shop under John Knox's
house, in the High Street. There was no use trying to work up or classify historic thrills
for her in this vast heart of Scotland; she had been given them all, with generous additional
thrills from private hearts, Scottish and American.

"Has every single one of those chaps proposed to you?" I flung the question in her face. "You
might tell your Mentor."

"Oh, not Donald Douglas's cousin!" she answered hastily. "He's engaged to some one in the Highlands."

"Good heavens, then all the rest have done it, in a bunch!"

"I think you're horrid!" she said indignantly. "I've always heard that girls don't tell such
things to any one."

"They do to their brothers--of the pen, if they have any such. Besides, you don't need to tell.
I'm a regular Sherlock Holmes where people I--like, are concerned, and I know what's been happening
to you this afternoon. A manna-rain of proposals, in the wilderness of Edinburgh Castle. Many
girls would have accepted them all, and then sorted them out to see which they liked best;
but I have a shrewd idea from the look of the gentlemen's backs that they are now one and all
your adopted brethren."

"It's almost wicked to joke on such a subject," Barrie reproached me, trying not to laugh,
"and it's not nice of you to make fun of them, just because you consider yourself superior,
as an author who is always analyzing people's minds and motives. It's not as if they were so
much in love with me that they had to propose in a hurry for their own sakes. It's not that
at all; but only because they thought it wouldn't be very convenient for--Barbara to have me
live with her, travelling about so much, or if she should marry. So they felt as if something
ought to be done for me, you know, as soon as possible."

"Sainted, unselfish young men!" I murmured. "But I don't consider myself superior, as it happens.
I'd do the same thing in a minute if I thought there were the faintest chance of your giving
me an answer different from theirs. Is there?"

"Don't talk nonsense!" she exclaimed. "But of course, I'm happy to say, I know you don't mean it."

"Well, if you're happy to say that, I'll leave you your fond illusions for the present," I
returned. "But, as girl to man, tell me; don't you rather like being proposed to?"

"It's very exciting," she admitted. "I never expected, somehow, that such a thing could happen
to me."

"Oh, didn't you? Why not?"

"Well, there's my red hair, which I always thought was fatal, until I saw my mother's portrait--and
heard Mr. Somerled say he liked painting red-haired women."

"Red hair can be fatal, though not in the way you appear to mean," said I. "Which thrilled
you more, the Castle or the proposals?"

"Oh, the Castle, of course!" she answered scornfully. "After the first one or two, they seemed
like interruptions."

All five of my rivals (there might have been six, had it not been for the girl in the Highlands)
having had their medicine, I was allowed almost as much as I wanted of Barrie's society during
the walk down from the Castle Rock, and to Holyrood. Together she and I walked through that
most romantic royal house of all the world; and long as I may live, never shall I forget those
hours. Chestnut-tressed Mary herself could not have been lovelier than the red-haired girl
who walked beside me, and when the royal beauty came on a day of chill, northern haar, to her
Scottish realm, she was only a year older than this child we all love but think too young for
love. Yet already, at nineteen, Mary was a King's widow, and had been Queen of France.

It was of Barrie's romance, Barrie's future, I thought most, as we wandered side by side through
the haunted rooms where Mary danced and loved and suffered, where her grandson Charles I of
England came, and left his ruby Coronation ring for remembrance, and where Prince Charlie,
her far-off descendant, made hearts flutter at the great ball given in his honour. But it was
the past which had all Barrie's thoughts, unless she sent a few to the man who had stayed at
home reading his letters, instead of following in her train.

We looked at Queen Mary's bed with its tattered splendour of brocade: the box filled with relics
of her short reign in Holyrood: her neat embroideries, her tear bottle, and Darnley's glove,
which Barrie thought Mary would not like to have kept with the other things: and then, having
saved the best for the last, I took the girl up to the little supper-room where Rizzio was
murdered. Barrie gazed at everything in silence: and now we could both be silent when we liked,
for the chastened ones had meekly trooped off to show Mrs. James the Abbey, or Royal Chapel,
where Mary and Darnley were married, and where a hundred things had happened, things connected
with others whose romances were as poignant if less well remembered here, than hers.

We had come up the secret stairway in the wall, because I wanted Barrie to miss no thrill this
place could give; but it was not the thought of the murder-scene which most caught her imagination.
She listened to my dramatic version of the tragedy of the room, and of the dark closet where
Rizzio tried to hide, and shuddered a little; but soon she was drawn, as if beckoned by an
unseen hand, to the bevelled mirror with scalloped edge, which Mary brought with her to Scotland
from France, a dim oval full of memories, may be, of dear, dead days at Amboise and Chenonceaux.

"What does that poor piece of blurred glass make you think of so intently?" I asked, when Barrie
had stood silently staring down the veiled vista of mystery for many minutes. "You look like
a young modern Cassandra, crystal gazing."

"So I am!" the girl almost whispered. "I'm trying to see something in the mirror--the things
she saw in it--or to see her eyes looking into mine. If anything can be haunted, it is this
mirror. Think of what has passed before it. But do you know, I don't believe it has ever really
intelligently seen anything since the day Queen Mary went away from Holyrood. I feel she ran
here, to take one last look into her mirror, and to bid it farewell as she bade farewell to
France, gazing and gazing as the land faded from her sight forever. Then, when she'd gone,
the glass she loved grew dim as it is now, and blind because it could no longer give back the
brightness of her eyes. There's nothing left in it now but sad dreams and memories of the past."

"Did you ever," I asked, "go down into the cellar at midnight on All Hallow E'en with a candle
and a mirror and wish to see the face of your future husband?"

"No, indeed," Barrie answered emphatically; "we had no such tricks at Hillard House."

"Now, in this mirror, if any in the world, you might be able to see such a vision, not only
at midnight, but on an ordinary afternoon, like this for instance," said I. "Suppose you stop
thinking of Queen Mary for a minute and concentrate on yourself. Wish with all your heart for
the face of the man you'll love, the man you'll marry, to appear under this clouded surface
of glass."

Barrie looked somewhat impressed by my mysterious tone as well as the overwhelming romance
of her surroundings. She put her face close to the mirror, and I was about to profit by the
situation I'd led up to when some one stepped between us and looked over the girl's shoulder.
It was Somerled, who must have come in just in time to overhear my advice, and take advantage
of it for himself. But he could not wholly blot me out of the mirror. Both our faces were there,
to be seen by Barrie, "as in a glass darkly." She gave a little cry of surprise, and wheeled
round to smile at Somerled.

"You came after all!" she exclaimed, forgetting or pretending to forget the solemn rite which
had engaged us. But I must admit I was in a mood to be almost superstitious about it. I had
prophesied to the girl that she would see reflected the face of the man she was destined to
love and marry. An instant later she had seen two faces, Somerled's and mine. Would she love
one man, and marry the other? Or would only one of these two men count in her life?

Perhaps Queen Mary's mirror knew. It looked capable of knowing--and keeping--any secret of
the human heart.

       *       *       *       *       *

That night--oh, my prophetic soul!--Morgan Bennett saw Barrie at the theatre, and looked at
her through his opera-glasses almost as often as he looked at Mrs. Bal in her gay, exciting
comedy-drama, "The Nelly Affair." The play had been written for the actress and suited her
exactly. In fact its whole success was made by her magnetic personality, her beauty, and her
dresses. She scarcely left the stage, and had something to do or say every minute, yet I noticed
that she found opportunities to observe where Bennett's eyes were straying. As for Barrie,
she saw nothing, heard nothing, thought of nothing, but her mother, glorious Barbara, who for
this evening was Nelly Blake, a girl of eighteen, seeming not a day older. Barrie, in a white
dress, with her hair in two long braids (Mrs. Bal thought she was too young to wear it done
up), sat among us in an ecstasy. Was ever any one so beautiful, so clever, so altogether marvellous
as darling Barbara? This was as it should be; and we who knew the girl, knowing that she had
never before seen a play, nor the inside of a theatre, thought her pathetic; but Morgan Bennett,
who did not know her, merely thought her pretty and wondered how he could get to know her.
The very flash of his opera-glasses was interested and eager; and when I proudly took the girl
behind the scenes to compliment Mrs. Bal after the first act, I was far from surprised to see
Bennett appear almost immediately in the same mystic region. Barrie and I were with Barbara
in a little room which she intended to use as a boudoir for the week of her engagement; and
when an employé of the theatre announced Mr. Bennett, she looked annoyed. For an instant she
hesitated visibly; but as he was probably aware that she had visitors, there was no good excuse
for sending him away. Part of Mrs. Bal's success with men consists in knowing what kind of
snubs they will meekly endure from a lovely spoiled woman, what kind they neither forget nor
forgive. She sent word to Mr. Bennett that he might come in.

He accepted the invitation promptly, and Barbara, with quick presence of mind, introduced him
to her little "sister Barribel."

"Barribel! That's a pretty name," he said, shaking hands with Barrie, his eyes on her face.
"Miss Barribel Ballantree, I suppose."

"You may suppose so!" returned Mrs. Bal, laughing.

"I saw this young lady sitting out in front," he went on, instead of congratulating the actress
at once on the success of the first act, which had "gone" splendidly with the large audience.
"I said to myself there must be a relationship between you two: and I was wondering."

"Well, you needn't bother to wonder any more," broke in Mrs. Bal, very gay but slightly shrill.
"I must have spoken to you about Barrie?"

"'Barrie' is what you call her?" said he, smiling at the girl. "That's a very nice pet name,
and suits her, somehow. You surely never spoke of your sister to me. I shouldn't have forgotten."
He added the last words with a look intended as a compliment for Barrie; and any woman wishing
to monopolize his attention exclusively might have been pardoned for thinking that he had looked
at her more than often enough in the circumstances. In his big way he is attractive, to certain
types of women, very attractive indeed, and I could understand that his millions might not
be his only charm for Mrs. Bal. He has eyes which can be fierce as an eagle's; the strong,
almost cruel jaw of the predestined millionaire who will mount to success at any cost; a pleasure-loving
mouth, and--when he is pleased--a boyish smile. When he is severely displeased, I shouldn't
care to be there to see him, especially if he were displeased with me. But I suspect Mrs. Bal
to be one of those women who could not love a man unless she were afraid of him. In that may
have lain the secret of Somerled's former fascination for her, if it existed.

"If I've forgotten to mention Barrie, it's because I'm always talking about you, when we're
together," Mrs. Bal excused herself with dainty impertinence of the sort Bennett will stand
from her. "If it isn't about you, it's about your motors--or some affair of yours."

"I thought you, and your affairs were generally the subject of our conversations," retorted
the big man, still looking more at the young girl than at the woman. "Miss Ballantree is your
affair----"

"She has only just become so," Barbara hurried to explain. "Her grandmother, who thoroughly
disapproves of me and all actresses, has kept the child shut up in a moated grange all her
life. It's a wonder I didn't forget her existence! She had begun to seem like a sort of dream-sister,
until she suddenly dropped in on me yesterday, and announced that she'd run away from home.
I'm simply enchanted to have the darling with me, for my own sake, or I should be if I hadn't
such a beautiful, unselfish nature that I find I worry myself into fits about her when she's
out of my sight. To-night I couldn't half act, because I was thinking about her all the time,
and wondering what on earth I could do to make her happy. I foresee I shan't be able to study
or rehearse or anything, while she's getting into mischief in a big hotel. I shall send her
away though to-morrow, for a few days, with some very dear friends of hers, who will give her
a good time until I settle down and feel at home with this new play--in which, by the way,
you don't seem to take the slightest interest. You haven't said a word about it, or how it
went, or how I acted."

"You know better than that----" Bennett was beginning when Barrie (to whom, despite his size,
he was a figure of no importance) broke in without being aware that he was speaking.

"Oh, Barbara, you won't make me go to-morrow; You promised----"

"If she promised, we must make her stick to her promise," said Bennett, forgiving the interruption,
and perhaps willing to tease Mrs. Bal.

The beautiful Barbara, however, had gathered together her scattered wits, and was too wise
to show that she was being teased. "I know, I meant to keep you with me this Edinburgh week
anyhow," she answered the girl. "But, sweetest, you won't want to hold me to the promise, no
matter what Mr. Bennett or any one else says, if I tell you that I'm worrying over your being
here? I don't feel it's the right thing for you. And it's certain Grandma will change her will
if she hears you're living with me. It's a miracle I didn't dry up in my part to-night from
sheer anxiety and absent-mindedness. You'd hate me to fail through you, dear one, I know."

"Oh, yes--anything but that," Barrie exclaimed, tears in her eyes.

Alas, if only some other name than that of M. P. Bennett had added itself to her list of admirers,
all might have been well for Barrie with sister Barbara, at least for a little while! As it
was, the girl's fate was sealed. So much the better for me: yet my fool of a heart ached for
her disappointment, instead of leaping for joy at my own good luck.

Mrs. Bal looked at the girl with an odd expression on her charming face, painted for the stage.
There was compunction, if not remorse, in the big brown eyes, but there was no relenting. She
liked Barrie and enjoyed her childish adoration, but she loved herself, and she wanted to "land"
Morgan Bennett. The girl would have to be sacrificed; still, those rising tears gave Barbara
pain to see. She would really have been glad to make Barrie happy, if the creature's youth
and beauty had not been an hourly peril for her.

"Don't look so disconsolate, dear," she said. "You're going to have a glorious time. And if
wet eyelashes are a compliment to me, they're just the opposite to Mr. Norman."

"Is it Mr. Norman the novelist?" Bennett wanted to know.

"Yes. And he's going to let Barrie help him with a story--or else he's putting her into one,
I'm not quite sure which."

Barbara threw him this bit of information with a sweetly casual air, but it was one of the
cleverest things she ever did, on the stage or off. Somehow, with a smile that flashed over
us all with a special meaning for each--affection for Barrie, a benediction for me, and a secret
understanding for Bennett--she contrived to convey to him the idea that her little sister was
already bespoken. No use his being led away by rosebud innocence! It was engaged, and if he
were wise he would be true to his love for the full-blown rose.

"Just think, pet, what an honour to be taken about by such famous people as Basil Norman and
Aline West," she went on, "and to have them for your best friends. You'd have had a horrid
dull time with them gone, for I should have had to leave you alone a lot. And next week, when
they bring you back to me at Glasgow, your future will be all beautifully arranged."

"But Mrs. West isn't well enough to go to-morrow----" Barrie pleaded.

"No. But Mrs. Vanneck will chaperon you for a few days. You ought to be frightfully happy,
seeing Scotland with those you love while your poor Barbara works for her daily bread. And
now you must go out in front again with Mr. Norman, if you don't want to miss the beginning
of the second act. Mr. Bennett has seen it, so he can stop with me five minutes if he likes,
till my call."

Barrie had been at rehearsal, and would no doubt have been quite willing to miss any part of
the play not graced by Mrs. Bal's presence on the stage; but short as was the time since she
made her mother's acquaintance, she had learned to know the lady well enough to realize when
she was not wanted. She went with me like a lamb resigned to the slaughter; and so, I was sure,
would she start with us next day. But just here, I think, is the place to write down what had
meanwhile happened to Mrs. James. If it hadn't been for that happening, perhaps we should not,
after all, have snatched the girl away so easily from Somerled. And the funny thing was--for
it had its funny side, as even he must have seen--the funny thing was, that all was his own
fault. When he planned that wonderful surprise for Mrs. James, he little thought it would be
the means of stealing his trump card from him. Generous he may be, and is, I must admit; but
it's not likely that he would have been unselfish enough to put himself in a hole for Mrs.
James's happiness, especially as he could have got just as much credit from Barrie by waiting
a few weeks--say, until the end of the "heather moon."

To have brought in the "surprise" in its proper order, I should have worked it into my notes
between our sight-seeing expedition in the afternoon, and the theatre in the evening, for it
was common property by that time. We all knew (from Mrs. James, not from himself), what a noble,
magnificent, wonderful, glorious, altogether pluperfect fellow Somerled was, to have interested
himself in her behalf, and to have given her such happiness as all her friends had thought
her mad to dream of through the dreary years.

Always, it seems, she believed that her husband, who disappeared seventeen years ago, was alive,
and only waiting for success to crown his ambitions, before returning to her. Everybody else
thought he had drowned himself, because of some professional trouble. But Mrs. James's faith
has been the great romance of her life; and Barrie (or the little woman herself, I don't know
which) told Somerled the story the day they left Carlisle in his car. Some details caught his
attention, and made him wonder if Mrs. James's instinct were not more right than other people's
reason.

When Somerled went to America as a boy, he travelled in the steerage. On board the same ship
was a man calling himself James Richard, a man of something over thirty, in whom Somerled became
interested. They made friends, though they gave each other no intimate confidences; and James
Richard made one or two remarks which suggested that he had been a doctor. Evidently he was
a man of culture, interested in many things, including chemistry and Scottish history. After
landing in New York the two met occasionally by appointment, and the older man spoke of an
invention which, if he could get the help of some millionaire to perfect it, ought to make
his fame and fortune, and revolutionize anaesthetics; but Somerled had thought little of this
at the time. So many men he met in those days had queer fads by means of which they hoped to
achieve glory. Soon, even before he himself reached success, Somerled and James Richard drifted
apart. The rising artist forgot the ship-acquaintance with whom, owing to the difference in
their ages and interests, he had never had more than casual acquaintance. It was not until
he heard the story of Mrs. James's husband, the clever doctor who loved Scottish history and
had invented a new anaesthetic just before disappearing seventeen years ago, that he remembered
his shipmate, James Richard. Then he recalled his appearance; and the descriptions tallied.
A scar on the forehead was a distinguishing mark with the man supposed to have drowned himself
and the man who had travelled to America in the steerage. Somerled cabled at once to New York,
instructing a firm of private detectives to trace James Richard, an Englishman, probably a
doctor, who had landed in New York from a certain ship on a certain date.

The first reply was not very encouraging. The man had left New York many years ago, and no
one knew where he had gone. But the next cablegram brought news that James Richard, or some
one answering to the name and description had been tracked to Chicago. There he had practised
as a doctor with some success, but had fallen seriously ill, had given up his business, and
had again disappeared. The detective "on the job" was going to Colorado to look for him, as
the climate of that state had been recommended to Richard by a fellow practitioner.

On the Monday morning after our arrival in Edinburgh, a third message had come. This announced
that the doctor had left Colorado and gone to California, where he was now living at Riverside,
with a rising practice; but that he was considered a "crank," because he constantly besieged
rich men to start a laboratory in which to work out his theories. Two or three had half promised
their help, but for some reason or other the financial schemes had fallen through. Still the
man never appeared to lose hope. Having received this news, Somerled wired direct to the doctor,
offering him as much money as he needed, if, before anything further was settled, he would
come over to Scotland and reveal himself to his wife.

Up to this time, Somerled had said nothing to Mrs. James, except that he hoped to give her
a pleasant surprise; and told her even this only because she planned to go back to Carlisle,
now that Barrie was with her mother. Naturally Somerled had several important reasons for wishing
the little woman to stay; but the one, he alleged, was his desire to see what she thought of
the "surprise" when it came.

He, of course, must have had visions of keeping this useful queen of spades up his sleeve,
that he might be ready to trump one of our knavish tricks with her, at any moment; but the
gods fought against him for once. Just before theatre-time, arrived a long cablegram from James
Richard, alias Richard James. He thanked Somerled enthusiastically (Mrs. James showed the message
to me, and to every one of us), accepted his loan, believing that eventually it could be repaid,
and was more than happy to hear news of his wife, whom he had left only for her own good, because
at that tune he considered himself disgraced and ruined. He had intended suicide, but the thought
of his invention had changed his mind and plans at the last moment. He had gone to the new
world to find what the old had denied him, and after a hundred disappointments he was to be
rewarded, through Somerled. He asked now for nothing better than to return, but only for long
enough to see his wife, and take her back to California with him. To his deep regret, however,
he could not start at once, as he had broken his leg and would not be able to travel for several
weeks at least. Would she come to him as soon as she could settle her affairs?

I imagine Somerled must have been sorely tempted not to show this message, for it would rob
him of Mrs. James and leave him where he had been after his quarrel with Aline, minus a chaperon
for Barrie, if he could contrive to snatch the girl from Mrs. Bal. But he had said too much
about the "surprise" to suppress developments now. Besides, it would have been almost inhuman
to delay the meeting of the husband and wife, so long parted. Neither would have forgiven him
if he had coolly kept them apart for his own convenience; but so grateful, so adoring to her
hero was Mrs. James, that if "the doctor" had not been ill and needing her, I think of her
own free will she would have offered to stop in Edinburgh for a few days to "see what happened."
As it was, there was no question of her staying. She and Somerled arranged that she should
leave for Carlisle by the first train possible in the morning. At home she was to settle her
few affairs temporarily, and catch a quick ship for New York, whence she would hurry on to
California.

Somerled gave her advice for the journey (and perhaps something more substantial), but he must
have seen that, though virtue might be its own reward, he was unlikely to get any other. Mrs.
Bal had lent Barrie to us, and without a woman to aid and abet him, it seemed to me that he
was powerless. Such chaperons as Mrs. James don't grow on blackberry bushes even in Scotland,
where blackberries, if not gooseberries, are the best in the world. Somerled had done for himself.

Oh, there was no doubt of it this time! Not only had we, in the game of chess we were quietly
playing with him, got his little white queen in check; we had swept her off the board.

       *       *       *       *       *

Happenings began thick and fast the morning after.

The first thing I heard was, from Aline, that at the theatre last night (probably just after
she sent us away) Mrs. Bal had told Morgan Bennett in so many words that Barrie was practically
engaged to me. After a week's trip in my society it was to be expected that she would arrive
in Glasgow to ask her elder sister's blessing.

This, Aline thought, necessitated our getting off at once, lest Bennett should contrive to
meet the girl alone somehow, and question her. If he did this, the "fat would be in the fire"
for Mrs. Bal, and perhaps for me too.

"The sooner the better," said I; for I was impatient to spirit the girl away from Somerled,
and turn her thoughts from him to me. If I prayed to the heather moon for help, I felt that
I ought to succeed; for the man who can have a girl of eighteen to himself (not counting a
few chaperons lying about loose) in a motor-car for a week, passing through the loveliest country
in the world, and can't make her forget for his sake some other fellow she's known only a few
hours longer, must be a born duffer. This I dinned into my consciousness.

It was to be my first real chance with Barrie; and though never in my life before have I made
serious love to any flesh-and-blood girl, I've made so much with my pen to the most difficult
and diverse heroines, that I had a certain belief in my own powers, once they had free play.

The second thing that happened this morning of happenings, however, was a slight setback, just
enough of a setback to let me see that the heather moon is a goddess who exacts more wooing
from her votaries than I had given. Or else, that she has her favourites, and is more ready
to look with a kindly eye on a man born to the heather than one who comes from afar to write it up.

Barrie, it appeared, had had a "scene" with Barbara. She had insisted with tears and (according
to Mrs. Bal) stampings of foot, that she would go to the Waverley station with Mrs. James and
see her off for Carlisle.

Mrs. James was to be taken to the train by Somerled, in his car; and as no one but Barrie had
been invited, this meant that the girl would return with him alone. To be sure, it would not
take five minutes for the Gray Dragon to slip from the Waverley end of Princes Street back
to the Caledonian. On the other hand, it was evident that Mrs. James must have a special reason
for choosing the Waverley station, when she could just as well have gone from our own; and
Aline and I could see only one. Somerled wanted to snatch five minutes alone with Barrie; and
he was not the man to waste a single one of the five. The question was, what use did he intend
to make of his time? None of us could guess, for Somerled is a puzzle too hard to read. Not
even Aline (who was so nervous that, figuratively speaking, she started at every sound in the
enemy's camp) believed that Somerled would try to run away with the girl. I soothed her by
saying that I thought it very doubtful whether Somerled would ask the girl to marry him, even
if everything were in his favour. I still tried to believe that in his opinion she was too
young and had seen too little of life to settle down as a married woman. He might be in love
with her--to me it was beginning to seem impossible that a man could know her and not be in
love--but with a strong, self-controlled man of Somerled's calibre, falling in love and marrying
need not be the same thing.

Mrs. Bal, after the "scene" (in which she too, apparently, played a stormy part) had angrily
consented to give Barrie her own way, but only on the girl's threat to decline making the trip
with us, if thwarted. Something in Barrie's eyes had warned the lady not to go too far, and
on her promise to return directly Mrs. James had gone, Mrs. Bal sulkily waived her objections.

"Why don't you, too, see Mrs. James off?" suggested Aline. "You've been great friends. She
ought to be complimented. And you might take her some flowers. That would please Barrie, who
is now worshipping Ian as a tin saint on wheels because he has found Mrs. James's husband and
offered to finance him to success. You ought to do something."

I thought this a good idea, and on the top of it had one of my own, which I didn't mention
to Aline, lest it should fail. Not only did I buy flowers, the prettiest and most expensive
I could find (worthy of Barrie or Mrs. Bal), but a box of sweets, another of Scotch shortbread,
a few cairngorm brooches, and amethyst and silver thistles picked up at random, and a copy
of Aline's and my last book which I found (well displayed) on the station book-stall. When
Aline sees only one copy she will not buy it, as she thinks it a pity the book should disappear
from public view; but this was an occasion of importance, and I didn't hesitate to pluck the
last fruit from the bough.

When Mrs. James, Barrie, and Somerled arrived (Vedder being left in charge of the car) there
was I waiting, laden with offerings. I stuck to the party till the end, waving my farewell
as the train slowly moved out, and then I summoned up courage (or impudence, depending on the
point of view) to ask if Somerled would take me back. "I walked here," I said, "so as to do
my little shopping for Mrs. James, and I came so fast I've hardly got my breath back."

I was prepared for some excuse to keep me out of the car; but I wronged Somerled. If any one
looked disappointed it was Barrie, not he. He said, "Certainly; with pleasure," and there was
nothing in his voice to contradict the courtesy of his words.

Thus, with surprising ease, I robbed him of the five minutes alone with Barrie which he had
planned. And though she sat in front with him--as she had come, perhaps--and I was alone in
my glory behind, they could have no private conversation.

When I went up to bid Aline good-bye (we were starting soon for Linlithgow and Stirling), I
told her of my small triumph; but it gave her no great pleasure.

"How do we know what he said to the girl going to the train?" she asked suspiciously. "If there's
anything up, it's certain that James woman is in it. I'm sure she's warned Ian against you
and me as well as Mrs. Bal. She's as shrewd as a gimlet in her own funny way. You've remarked
that yourself. And she worships Ian, and thinks Barrie a little angel abandoned in a wicked
world. So if Ian wanted to talk, he wouldn't mind Mrs. James. You'd better keep your eyes open
this week, and notice whether the girl seems dreamy and absent-minded, as if she expected something
to happen--something they may have arranged between them this morning."

I assured Aline that I needed no urging to keep my eyes on Barrie. She then told me for the
second time that she intended joining our party as soon as Somerled left Edinburgh to follow
us, as--she thought--he surely would. "He wouldn't have gone a step while that girl was here
with Mrs. Bal," she exclaimed, almost fiercely, "but in spite of all he's said about seeing
old landmarks and looking up old friends, he'll be off after you when you've taken Barrie away.
Anyhow, I'm going to see something of him while he's here if I can, for we are friends! He's
supposed to have forgiven me, and he can't refuse to come and cheer up the invalid. I shall
do the very best I can for myself--and when I find he means to be off I shall mention casually,
as a kind of coincidence, that I'm going too, the same day, to join you; that you've wired
or something, and that Maud Vanneck and her husband have accepted an invitation from Morgan
Bennett to visit his sister, at that Round House Mrs. Bal talked of. Perhaps Ian will offer
to take me with him. I do hope so. But I can't ask."

As a matter of fact, poor Aline had racked her brains how to dispose of the married Vannecks
when she should be ready to take her place in Blunderbore. As for George, she wished to keep
and play with him, of course, partly for her own amusement, partly for the moral effect upon
Somerled; but she didn't want to offend his brother and sister-in-law. Still, they had to be
got rid of eventually, as Blunderbore, with all the faults of Noah's ark, has not the ark's
accommodation for man and beast. It was a happy thought to angle for an invitation, through
Mrs. Bal, for a few days at the Round House, as Maud Vanneck particularly desired to see "Scottish
life in a private family"; and it didn't occur to her that a shooting-lodge hired by an American
millionaire would not be the ideal way of accomplishing her object.

Mrs. Bal was not out of her room when we were ready to start, at eleven, so I did not see her
again; but the plainest, oldest, and carrotiest of the three red-headed maids primly accompanied
Barrie to the hotel door with hand-luggage. By this time Blunderbore was puffing heavily in
feigned eagerness to be off, and Salomon, its owner and chauffeur, shabby and sulky as usual,
was giving the car a few last oily caresses which should have been bestowed long ago in the
privacy of the garage. Have I forgotten to mention in these rambling notes that Somerled's
Vedder regards our Salomon with a silent yet plainly visible contempt, akin to nausea? Whenever
they happen to be thrown together for a few minutes I see the smart-liveried Vedder criticizing
with his mysterious eyes the mean features of the weedy Salomon; his weak face with the curious,
splay mouth that falls far apart in speaking, almost as if the jaw were broken; his old cloth
cap, and his thin, short figure loosely wrapped in a long, linen dust coat. Neither Aline nor
I have had the courage to remonstrate with Salomon on his get up, but when Vedder regards him
I burn with the desire to discharge the creature and his car, despite our contract for a month.

Barrie and I being on the spot, we could have got off, if the Vannecks--invariably late--had
not been missing. In desperation I dashed into the hotel to look for them, and returned to
find Somerled deep in conversation with Barrie, who was in the car. I had left her standing
in the hotel doorway, with Mrs. Bal's maid: so Somerled in some way must have caused that maid
to disappear, and had then forestalled me by helping Barrie into my car, tucking her comfortably
in with the prettier of my two rugs.

I was just in time to hear him say "we shall meet"--but where and when the meeting was to be,
I did not know. That was the last of him for the moment, however, as I had secured the two
Vannecks, and we lumbered off along the good, clear road to Linlithgow. Now it was "up to me"
to make my running with Barrie.

I like driving, though in traffic I am secretly nervous; but as Blunderbore provides no convenient
perch for the chauffeur, and as Salomon trusts no man except himself, he took the wheel, and
I was free to sit behind with my three guests.

I'd been wondering what Barrie's mood would be, for I felt in my bones that she was coming
with us much against her will. She had not wanted to leave Edinburgh, and I was sure that she
could only have resigned herself to doing so with Somerled and his Gray Dragon. I asked myself
whether she guessed, or whether Mrs. James had put it into her head, that Aline and I had combined
against what the girl no doubt believed to be her "interests." I thought it not improbable
that she would openly show her distaste for the trip. As we went on, however, I began to realize
that Barrie had changed subtly in the days since meeting her mother. She seemed suddenly to
have grown up, to have become a woman.

Was it the heart-breaking disappointment Mrs. Bal's reception had given her? Or was it the
five proposals of marriage flung at her head by those mad young men who were now--thank goodness!--being
left behind us, to "dree their own wierds?" Or was it something quite different--something
which she and the heather moon alone knew?

In any case, she was quiet, even dignified in her youthful way, very polite and agreeable to
the Vannecks and to me. I might have flattered myself that she was happy enough, and glad of
my society, if I hadn't reflected that to sulk visibly would have been to blame Mrs. Bal. Already
I knew that loyalty was one of Barrie's everyday virtues. Barbara could do no wrong!

While the road (though good, and historic every step of the way) remained unalluring to the
eye, we chatted about Edinburgh, Barrie rejoicing in having seen as much as she had before
leaving the town. She had browsed a little among the thrilling shops of Princes Street. With
one eye, so to speak, cocked up at the towering Castle Rock, with the other she had scanned
the gardens, Scott's monument, and everything else worth seeing; then, with a sudden pounce,
she had concentrated her gaze on immense plate glass windows displaying Scottish jewellery,
Scottish books, Scottish cakes, and (to her) irrelevant Scottish tartans. Even without need
of them, their witching attraction had hypnotized her to buy many of these things.

"I don't know exactly what I shall do with them," she said; "but I'm glad I've got them all,
and I wish I had more!"

It was Mrs. James who had been with her in her triumphal progress through Princes Street; but
it was I who had escorted her the whole wonderful, sordid, glorious, pitiful length of the
old High Street, the Royal Mile of gorgeous ghosts. I had been there to see her face as she
caught glimpses of dark wynds where long ago men had fought to the death and helped make history,
where now colourful yet faded rags hang like ancient banners, from iron frames, giving a fantastic
likeness to side streets of Naples: I had pointed out to her the stones which marked the place
where famous ones had murdered or been murdered, or had sought sanctuary from murder. I had
taken her all over the house of John Knox. Together we had admired the oak carving in the room
where he ate his simple meals; and together we looked from the little window whence he had
poured his burning floods of eloquence upon the heads of the crowd below. In the curiosity
shop downstairs I had bought her a silver Heart of Midlothian. She had stared into the rich
dark shadows whence start out, spirit-like, faces of old oil pictures, faces of old clocks,
faces of old marble busts; and she had been so charmed by the soft voice of the young saleswoman,
whose flute-like tones would lure gold from a miser's pocket, that she would have collected
half the things in the shop if she had had the money. I wanted to give her bits of old jewellery
and miniatures of Queen Mary and Prince Charlie which she fancied, but she would accept only
the silver Heart of Midlothian, which cost no more than a few shillings; and to-day, as I took
her away from Edinburgh, she was not wearing the little ornament, as I had hoped she might.

As the road grew prettier, we tore our thoughts away from Edinburgh, and gave them to the highway
illumined by history. At least, Barrie gave hers, while I lent as many of mine as I could spare
from her. And I had to keep my wits about me, if I were to live up to the regulation of Know-All
I'd evidently attained in her eyes.

In Linlithgow we expected to see at once the famous palace where Queen Mary was born, but nothing
was visible in what the French would call the place, except the Town House, a new statue, and
a graceful copy of an old fountain. We had to turn up an unpromising side street to find at
last a beautiful little gateway between dumpy octagonal towers, such as the old masters loved
to put in the background of their pictures. Passing through was like walking into one of those
pictures, getting round the hidden corner as one always longs to do on canvas. Before our eyes
rose majestically the colossal shell of a palace, with carved golden walls, a vast courtyard,
cyclopean round towers, and wonderful windows full of sky and dreams. Close by was the noble
church where James IV had his vision warning him not to go to war with England.

Somerled had talked to Barrie about Linlithgow, doubtless in the hope of making her think of
him when there. He had called it the "finest domestic architectural ruin in all Scotland,"
and told her of Lord Rosebery's suggestion to restore and make of it a great national museum.
I was glad for every reason that Somerled wasn't with us, and, for one, because he would have
overshadowed me entirely with his knowledge of architecture, which he contrives to use picturesquely,
not ponderously. All I could do was to rhapsodize in a way Barrie likes well enough when she
can get nothing better, painting for her a rough word-picture of the palace in days when rich
gilding still glittered on the quaint wall statues, when crystal jets spouted from the lovely
fountain, green with moss now as with thick verdigris--when knights in armour rode into the
quadrangle to be welcomed by fair ladies, while varlets led tired horses to distant stables.
Those were the days when the Livingstons were keepers of the palace for the King, long before
they lost their lands and titles for love of Prince Charlie; days when the memory of Will Binnock
was honoured still, that "stout earle" who helped wrest Linlithgow from English Edward's men
by smuggling soldiers into the palace precincts, concealed in a load of hay.

We wandered almost sadly through the splendid rooms where Queen Mary first saw the light, the
week her father died: through "the King's room," with its secret staircase under a trap door,
and its view over a blue lake where swans floated like winged water-lilies. Then, when we had
bought a specially bound copy of "Marmion" (which ought to be read at Linlithgow), and post
cards and souvenirs that seemed important at the moment and useless afterward, we took the
road to Stirling.

There was no time to stop in Falkirk (when is there ever time to stop in motoring?), for the
car was running unusually well for Blunderbore. So instead of pausing to meditate over battle
scenes, as Vanneck pretended he wished to do, we sailed through the long, straight street which
seems practically to constitute the town. Here we had almost our first glimpse of industrial
Scotland as opposed to picturesque Scotland, which was in these August days becoming the playground
of Britain and America. Falkirk is a coalfield as well as a battlefield, and the murk of collieries
and iron works darkens the sky as once did the smoke of gunpowder: but the place holds its
old interest for the mind; and not far off we came to the Wallace Monument; then to Bannockburn.
Because of Barrie's love for the Bruce, we got out and walked to the Bore Stone where he stood
to direct the battle so fatal to the English. After this we were close to St. Ninian's, and
to Stirling, though the day was still young; but there was lots to see, and I wanted to go
on before dusk, to spend the night in Crieff. We lunched at one of those nice old-fashioned
hotels whose heraldic names alone are worth the money; and as we started on foot to walk through
the ancient town and mount to its high crown, the Castle, I began to appreciate Aline's arrangements
for my benefit.

Maud Vanneck being a model of wifely jealousy, kept Fred to herself, and Barrie was my companion.
This was delightful. No such good thing had come to me since making her acquaintance. On the
way up the quaint, steep street, there came a shower of rain, and I had to shelter her with
my umbrella. It was an umbrella of blessedly mean proportions, which meant that she must keep
close to my side, and I said, "Come what may I shall have this and a few other things to remember!"

Up in the Castle, we two decided that we had after all made a mistake in calling Edinburgh
Castle Scotland's heart. Here was that organ, and we could almost feel it throbbing under our
feet. We forgot that we had selected several other hearts for Scotland. Here was the right
one at last!

What a view to look out upon, with the One Girl by your side! Over our heads and far away,
clouds turned the rolling mountains to snowpeaks that dazzled in the sun, and under our eyes
seemed to lie all Scotland, spread out like a vast brocaded mantle of many colours: the plain
of the Forth, the Ochil hills and the hills of Fife; the purple peaks round Loch Lomond, and
here and there a glitter of water like broken glass on a floor of gold. Ten counties we could
see, and eight great battlefields which helped to make Scotland what it is. The horizon was
carved in shapes of azure--strange, wild, mountainous shapes; and the noble heads of Ben Lomond,
Ben Ledi, and Ben A'an were laurelled and jewelled for us by memories of Scott.

Sitting where Queen Mary sat on her velvet cushions, and looking through her peephole in the
thick stone wall, I was almost irresistibly tempted to make love to Barrie. My heart so went
out to her that it seemed she must respond: and the Vannecks had wandered to another part of
the battlements; but she kept me to my task of cicerone. I had to answer a dozen questions.
I had to tell her about Agricola forging his chain of forts across the narrow land between
the Clyde, and the Forth "that bridles the wild Highlander." She would be satisfied with nothing
less than the unabridged stories of Edward I's siege of this "gray bulwark of the North," the
murder of the powerful Douglas by his treacherous host King James II; the building of and the
mysterious curse upon Mar's Work, and twenty other human documents not half so moving, had
she but known it, as the story of Basil Norman's first and only love. Once or twice I thought
she guessed that I wished to speak of myself and her, and that she deliberately held me at
arm's length, like a young person of the world dealing with an ineligible at the end of her
second season. I almost hated King Edward, and more especially Agricola!

Then, worst of all, before we had half finished our tour of the Castle and its wonders, rain
began to fall out of one cloud stationed directly over our heads in the midst of a sun-bright
sky. I could almost have believed that Somerled in spite had sent it after us, like a wet blood-hound
to track us down. We took shelter in the room where the Douglas was murdered; and who could
make love against such a background? Not I: though perhaps gay King James V might have been
equal to it. One does not hear that any ghost dogged his footsteps as he crept joyously in
disguise out from that dark little chamber into the subterranean passage, which led the "Guid
man of Ballangeich" to his Haroun Al-raschid adventures in the night.

       *       *       *       *       *

The next few days live in my memory as dreams live. They were beautiful. They would have been
more beautiful if I could have flattered myself that Barrie was learning to care for me in
the way she might have cared for Somerled, if we had left them in peace. But she was always
the same--except that, as the world grew more enchanting in beauty and poetic associations,
she blossomed into a sweet expansiveness, losing the reserve in which she had been veiled when
first we started.

It ought to have been ideal, this moving from scene to scene with the one girl I ever wanted
for my own, since I was thirteen and worshipped a tank mermaid in green spangles. That was
the hard part! It ought to have been ideal and--it wasn't. I should think a rather well meaning
Saracen chieftain who had captured a Christian maiden might have felt somewhat as I felt from
day to day. He had got her. She couldn't escape from him and his fortress; but, even with her
hand in his, she contrived to elude him.

So it was with me. Old Blunderbore went well on the whole, not counting a few minor ailments
of second childhood which attacked him occasionally when he saw a stiff hill ahead, or when
he had heard me say I was in a hurry. The Vannecks were perfection as chaperons, not through
supernatural tact and unselfishness, but because Maud feared the effect upon Fred of too much
Barrie. She laid herself out to charm her husband. Never an "I told you so!" Never a nagging
word or look. She chatted to Fred in the car, and saw sights with him out of the car. This,
she said, was almost like a second honeymoon. But of the heather moon she had never heard.
It was ours--Barrie's and mine: yet I could not induce the girl to speak of it. For all she
would say, she might have forgotten its existence. Always, especially when the heather moon
tried to give us its golden blessing, an invisible presence seemed to stand between us, as
if Somerled had sent his astral body to keep us apart.

As to Somerled in the flesh, there was a mystery at this time. To me at Perth came a telegram
from Aline saying:

     "S. has left his car and chauffeur here and gone away without a
     word to any one. Has he come after you? Wire immediately."

I obeyed, replying:

     "Seen and heard nothing of S. Will let you have all news. Hope you
     will do the same by me. Am sending you our route, but suppose you
     will arrive in few days."

Her answer came to St. Andrews, at a jolly, golfing sort of hotel where I ought to have been
as happy as the day was long.

     "As S. has not joined you prefer stop on here. Eyes not well yet.
     Mr. Bennett's sister has influenza. She would prefer Maud and Fred
     visit Round House later--say toward end of next week."

I had no faith in that attack of influenza. The microbe was probably hatched in conversation
between Aline and Mrs. Bal, who had by this time become tremendous allies. My theory was that
Aline, knowing Somerled not to be near Barrie, had settled down to enjoy the fleeting moment.
She might not be happy, but I could understand that the society of Mrs. Bal (who evidently
wanted her) was preferable to motoring with a brother, and a girl of whom she was jealous.

The same day came a long expensive wire to Barrie from her mother:

     "So sorry darling but unfortunately must put you off. Don't come
     first of Glasgow week. Wait till Saturday, arriving late afternoon
     or evening. Mrs. West says her friends and brother will like
     keeping you till then so you needn't worry. We can have nice visit
     together later and settle everything for you in some delightful
     way. Making plans now. Don't forget you for a moment. Best reasons
     for delay. Will explain when we meet. Sending you letter with
     little present of money. Don't stint yourself. Write often. Tell me
     all that interests you. Ever your loving Barbara."

"Why do you suppose she can't have me the first of the week?" Barrie asked piteously, when
she had shown this message.

"I can't say, I'm sure," I cautiously replied. This was literally true. I could not say: but
I could guess. And a letter from Aline which came two or three days later, confirmed my Sherlockian
deductions.

     "My DEAR OLD BOY" [she wrote]: "I was so glad to get your
     telegram, and meant to have written at once, but waited on second
     thoughts to have a little more news. It is a relief to know that
     Ian hasn't followed that girl. Of course I feel it as much for your
     sake as my own, for he is a dangerous rival to any man. It is odd
     where he can have gone; though he may turn up here again any day,
     as he has left his car and chauffeur. If he had wanted to be nice,
     he might have offered me the use of both while he was away; but I
     suppose he blames me for lending myself to Mrs. Bal's wishes about
     Barrie. Very unreasonable of him, as you have a perfect right to do
     what you like with the car you've hired, and if Mrs. Bal didn't
     want her daughter to see too much of him, what fault is it of
     mine?

     "I try to amuse myself as well as I can and forget my worries,
     however, and Mrs. Bal and Morgan Bennett are being very nice. I
     don't think he's proposed yet, or she would have told me, for we're
     great friends; but she's pretty sure to land him before he leaves
     for America, as he is to do the end of her Glasgow week, for a
     short business trip. I expect to be asked to congratulate them the
     night before he sails! What a good thing for her and every one
     that the Vannecks can stand by you longer than we planned. I think,
     unless you wire me that Ian has appeared upon the scene, I'll stay
     with Mrs. Bal for her Glasgow week, as she has invited me, and
     then, when the Vannecks go to the Round House, you can bring Barrie
     back to her mother."

This explained Mrs. Bal's "best of reasons."

Days went on, and Somerled did not come to our part of the world, which was by this time the
heart of the Highlands; but I felt in my bones that Barrie was hearing from him, writing to
him; that she knew what I did not know, the mystery of his absence. Of course I could have
found out if she were receiving letters from him, for Somerled's handwriting is unmistakable;
but villain or no villain, I had to draw the line somewhere, and I drew it at spying upon her.

Aline did go to Glasgow with Mrs. Bal. She wrote to tell me how, with Morgan Bennett in his
biggest motor-car, "much higher powered and smarter than poor Ian's," she and Mrs. Bal and
George Vanneck had sped away from Edinburgh on Sunday morning early, had a look at their rooms
in Glasgow, and dashed on to Arrochar, where they all stopped till Monday afternoon.

     "Such an exquisite road!" [said Aline]. "You would have loved it.
     High green bank on one side, with cataracts of bracken delicate as
     maidenhair; dark rocks, wrapped in velvet moss. Trees holding up
     screens of green lace between your eyes and the blue water of the
     loch. Pebbles white and round as pearls, or silver coins dropped by
     fairies in a big "flit." That's one of your similes! Grass
     running down to the edge of the water, and full of bluebells. Water
     the colour of drowned wallflowers. I don't believe your Highland
     lochs can be prettier or more idyllic, though this is so close to
     Glasgow.

     "We have had a day going through the Kyles of Bute, too--the same
     party: and a marvellous run along the shores of the Clyde to
     Skelmorlie. Such red rocks there, and even the sand red. There was
     a pink haze over everything, like a perpetual sunset. I'm not sure
     which was better, that, or a trip to Crinan. The dearest little
     place at the end of the Crinan canal--just a flower-draped hotel,
     and a sea-wall and a lighthouse, with a distant murmur of
     'Corrievrechan's tortured roar,' mingled with the crying of gulls.
     What a place for you and Barrie to spend your honeymoon! You see, I
     speak as if it were certain. Anyhow, I'm sure it all depends on
     yourself. Courage, mon brave!"

But that is exactly the quality which the villain of the piece lacks at present.

BOOK IV

WHAT BECAME OF BARRIE

I

Letter From Barrie Macdonald To Ian Somerled Macdonald

     DEAR SIR KNIGHT: I was glad the morning we saw Mrs. James off that
     you said you'd like to hear from me, and if I needed help or
     comfort in any trouble I must let you know. I haven't such an
     excuse for writing to you now, but you did say that you wanted to
     hear anyway, and that you'd find out where we were going, so you
     could wire me your plans. Now I've had two telegrams from you, and
     a letter; and if they hadn't come I should have been disappointed.
     I thought we might have seen you and the Gray Dragon before this,
     but the telegrams have made me understand. That is, I don't
     understand, because what you tell me sounds very mysterious. Still,
     as you went back to Carlisle and are now in London, it is no use
     hoping to see the Gray Dragon's bonnet flash into sight round some
     complicated Highland corner.

     What could have taken you to call on Grandma again? I am almost
     dying of curiosity. You say 'perhaps you may be able to explain
     when we meet': but everybody is saying that to me, just now--at
     least, Barbara is, about not letting me go back to Glasgow till the
     end of her week there--so it is rather aggravating. Still, it is
     good to know that we may meet. I wonder when? You don't give me a
     hint, and it stirs up my curiosity from deeper depths to be told,
     as if you half expected me to guess what you mean, that 'you're in
     London for reinforcements.' Shall I ever know? It seems a long time
     since I said good-bye to you in front of the Caledonian Hotel. Not
     that I'm having a dull trip. I should be very dull myself if that
     were true, for everything is beautiful, and every one kind. It is
     the most wonderful luck for a girl like me, who had never seen
     anything in her life, suddenly to be seeing all Scotland. But I had
     grown rather used to seeing things with you and Mrs. James, after
     I escaped from the 'glass retort,' and I can't accustom myself yet
     to being with others, and you far away--Mrs. James too, of course.
     I try to console myself if I feel a tiny bit homesick, thinking how
     happy she is, and how wonderful everything is going to be for her
     and her strange, unpractical doctor. It was splendid of you to give
     him all that money. But wouldn't it have been fun if he could have
     come over, instead of her going to him? Maybe, if it had turned out
     so, you would be in the Highlands now.

     Do you remember how I used to say that my tour under the heather
     moon would soon be over, but you would be going on just as if we
     had never met? Well, it has turned out quite differently, hasn't
     it, for both of us? Only the heather moon is the same. But I never
     talk of her now that you are gone.

     I don't want you to think I am ungrateful to any one, if I sign
     myself, Your rather homesick little 'princess,'

     BARRIE.

     P.S.--It does not seem right to have crossed over the borderline
     into our Highlands without you!

LETTER FROM BARRIE TO HER MOTHER

     DEAREST,DARLING BARBARA: Can it really be that it won't
     bother you to have me write to you often and tell you everything
     interesting that happens? You see, I might think it interesting,
     and you might think it a bore. I know you are easily bored, dear,
     so I am not quite sure what I ought to write. I can only tell you
     about seeing places, because that is all we do. But they are so
     beautiful, perhaps you may like to hear. If I write about the wrong
     things, do promise that you'll speak out and tell me to stop. I
     won't let my feelings be hurt.

     Basil is trying to show me as much of Scotland as he possibly can,
     he says, before I 'get tired of him and Blunderbore.' That is a bad
     way to put it, and so I have told him, because I should be horribly
     ungrateful to tire of him. But he says he dislikes gratitude and
     thinks it an overestimated virtue.

     I suppose you have often been in Scotland before, and you are not
     Scottish yourself, so perhaps you can't quite feel as I do about
     it. Basil, who has travelled so much, says that Scotland has in
     miniature almost all the picked bits of scenery of other countries;
     but they do not appear to be in miniature when you're motoring
     through them. They seem on an enormous scale; and each beauty spot
     is different from every other. You can't help remembering and
     keeping them apart in your mind, though there are so many that they
     are crowded together, all over the map. I think of the map of
     Scotland being purple, like heather, don't you? And if I have to
     live anywhere else, I shall always be homesick for this country
     now. If we are not in some fairy-like, green glen, we are in a wild
     and awesome mountain pass; or else in a blue labyrinth of lochs; or
     we come out upon endless, billowing moorlands; or suddenly we find
     ourselves on a long road like an avenue in some great private park,
     with the singing of a river in our ears.

     Poor Basil sometimes feels ashamed of Blunderbore, and certainly
     it is different from travelling in Mr. Somerled's Gray Dragon.
     With the Dragon, spirits of the wind used to rush out of forests to
     meet and dash ozone in our faces. With Blunderbore, if they come at
     all, they merely spray us lazily.

     Going from Stirling to Crieff we crossed the borderline of the
     Highlands. There was a park-like world round the Bridge of Allan:
     and at Ardoch, the greatest Roman station left in Britain, lots of
     turfed banks showing still where 26,000 Romans tried to bridle the
     Northern Caledonians, the red-haired people. I'm glad they never
     quite succeeded!

     Crieff was sweet, and all round it, half hidden in woods, the most
     beautiful houses. But Basil had forgotten to wire, so we couldn't
     get into one of the nice hotels, but stayed in a very funny one.
     When Mrs. Vanneck asked for communicating rooms, the landlady said,
     'Oh, no, Madam, we've no such things as that in our house!'

     We went on to Perth early next morning, and every minute along the
     road we seemed to be passing happy people who'd come to play in
     Scotland: nice golfing girls and men, and men with guns over their
     shoulders, or followed by gillies with fishing-tackle. I wish men
     could amuse themselves, though, don't you, without killing
     creatures more beautiful and happy than themselves?

     It was such a pretty road, past Methven, where, alas! the English
     beat Bruce; and if I hadn't been grieved to find that by John
     Knox's advice all the nicest buildings had been pulled down, I
     shouldn't have felt disappointed in Perth. It is a very fine town
     anyhow, with glorious trees; and the two great bridges over the Tay
     are splendid if they are made of iron. They look as if people had
     planned them especially to give all the view there could be of the
     sunset.

     Of course the 'Fair Maid's' house was the most interesting thing.
     I hope it really was hers. I don't see why not. It is in the old
     glover's quarter. And the shrine with the crucifix and death's head
     and cross-bones they found hidden in the wall of her room is too
     fascinating. I could just see her praying there, so beautiful that
     all the young men of Perth were in love with her. And talking of
     the young men of Perth, Basil says the ball in the Games Week is
     supposed to be the best show of the year--such splendid men come. I
     should love to see them in the kilt, with their brown knees, like
     the pipers in Edinburgh.

     St. Andrews was our next place, and we arrived the same day, for
     we didn't stop in Perth after we had seen the sights there. I
     wonder if you have been to St. Andrews? I know so little about you
     yet, dearest. I fell in love with the place--not so much with the
     links (though they must be the most beautiful as well as the most
     famous in the world) as with that old ruined castle built on the
     dark rocks rising out of the sea. I know I shall dream of the
     awful, bottle-necked dungeon! Basil said it was the worst thing he
     had ever seen except at Loches. I hope it isn't wicked to be
     pleased that Cardinal Beaton, after he sat in his window to watch
     Wishart burn, was soon killed, and salted, and preserved in the
     same dungeon where he used to keep martyrs. The 'undergrads' of the
     University looked so attractive in their red gowns, and the girl
     students in their mortar boards! They were like scarlet birds,
     against the gray walls and gray arches of the town. But I suppose
     people in St. Andrews think even more about golf than about
     learning, don't they? There were hundreds of all ages on the
     links--so grave and eager: and at the hotels they never know when
     anybody will come in to meals. There's the cemetery, too; that
     shows the importance of golf. All the 'smartest' monuments are of
     famous golfers, knitted caps and clubs and everything, neatly done
     in marble. But I wonder anybody ever contrives to die at St.
     Andrews. I never felt such delicious air!

     Crossing the ferry for Dundee was fun. It was a very big boat, and
     several other motors on it as well as ours. We sat in Blunderbore
     all the way across the wide sheet of silver that was the Tay,
     gazing up at the marvellous giant bridge, and then we spent several
     hours in Dundee, seeing the Steeple, and Queen Mary's Orchard, and
     lots of things. This was so near the Round House that I suppose the
     Vannecks would have gone if it hadn't been for me. But I am the
     stumbling block in everybody's way.

     Going on to Aberdeen, we ran along a fine coast dotted with ruined
     castles--Dunottar for one, where the Regalia was hidden once.

     We stopped at Arbroath, which Doctor Johnson admired, to see the
     great shell of an Abbey, red as dried blood; and all the old town
     is built out of it, so no wonder there isn't much left but an
     immense nave. But just think, Arbroath is Sir Walter Scott's
     'Fairport,' and I must read "The Antiquarian" again, all about the
     caves and the secret treasure found in them. As for the treasure of
     the Abbey, it is nothing less than the heart of William the Lion.
     He had it nicely buried near the high altar, as long ago as the
     twelfth century, wasn't it? But in 1810 they dug it up, found it
     had ossified, and now they simply have it lying about in a glass
     case, practically mixed up with the bones of a lady who left money
     to the Abbey (she wouldn't, if she'd known what they'd do!) and the
     singularly long thigh bones of a particularly wicked earl. It was
     an earl who married a sister of the Lion's, and, because he was
     jealous, threw her out of the window.

     We had to go through Montrose, where the great Marquis was born,
     and where Sir James Douglas set sail with the Bruce's heart (what a
     lot of hearts there were travelling about then!) and where now the
     most curiously exciting things are the Bridie Shops. I had to
     know what a 'bridie' meant, so we stopped to see; but it's only a
     rolled meat pasty they love in Forfarshire; and brides are supposed
     to batten on them at their weddings. To please me, Basil would have
     made a detour to see 'Thrums,' which is really Kerriemuir, you
     know. And we should have had to pass through Forfar--the 'Witches
     Har'--and go on the road that leads to mysterious, wonderful
     Glamis. I was longing to do it, but Mrs. Vanneck wanted to arrive
     in Aberdeen in time to do some shopping! I gave up like a lamb,
     almost hating her inwardly; but afterward I felt better about it,
     for the Aberdeen shops are so nice. They sell pink pearls, out of
     Scottish rivers--perfect beauties. I bought you a brooch, and I do
     hope you'll like it. I don't know much about such things; and of
     course you have gorgeous jewellery; but this pearl is such a
     wonderful colour, like snow touched with sunrise.

     My eyes and hair were full of granite by the time we got to
     Aberdeen, because the road is made of it, and the dust sparkles
     like diamonds.

     So does Aberdeen sparkle like diamonds. I shouldn't have thought a
     city all gray like that, could be so handsome. But it is a gray
     bright and silky as the wings of doves, and in some lights pale as
     moonbeams. Sunset was beginning when we arrived, and on the houses
     and bridges and river, and even on the pavements of the broad
     streets, there was the same gray-pink sheen as on the pearl I
     bought for you.

     In the morning we went to see the University, and the Cathedral
     with its lovely rose-pink pillars, and old painted Scandinavian
     ceiling. Everything would have passed off charmingly, if Basil had
     not begun to be rather foolish and unlike himself, while he and I
     were in the Cathedral together. Fortunately, an old friend of his
     he hadn't seen for years, appeared unexpectedly at the critical
     moment, and invited us to visit him near Aboyne. I hadn't quite
     time to say 'no' to Basil definitely, and we haven't gone back to
     the subject since, so I am hoping for the best. I used to think it
     would be heavenly to have a proposal, but now, I realize that it
     is much overrated.

     Your loving
     BARRIE,
     Who hopes she hasn't bored you.

LETTER FROM BARRIE TO SOMERLED

     DEAR SIR KNIGHT: I must write to tell you what a surprise
     I had in Aberdeen. Basil took us all to a biograph theatre--the
     first one I ever saw--and one set of pictures was labelled, 'A
     Gretna Green Wedding of the Olden Days.' How my heart beat!--and
     not for nothing, because, oh, Sir Knight, it was our wedding! My
     face never showed once, but the hair looked like mine; and your
     face was just like yours and nobody else's, in spite of the
     old-fashioned costume. Basil said out loud, 'By Jove!' and the
     Vannecks recognized you, and asked all sorts of questions. I had to
     tell them the story, but I didn't mind a bit. In fact, I think I
     was proud. The pictures were coloured, so perhaps that was one
     reason they guessed, for my hair was so red. I told Basil I always
     wanted to be married at Gretna Green, and now I have been. But he
     had the air of being rather shocked. I shouldn't have thought he
     was that kind of person.

     Afterward, he was afraid that he had offended me; but I hadn't
     cared at all. However, he has been kinder than ever since, as if to
     make up. Walking about in the Cathedral next day, we met a
     delightful man, actually the Head of a Clan, who had been in
     Canada and had known Basil there. He invited us to visit at his
     place near Aboyne, on Deeside--just think, not far from where
     Macbeth was killed!--and of course that enchanted Mrs. Vanneck, who
     has an insatiable yearning to see the inside of Scottish houses.
     His is a beautiful house. I must tell you about it. Maybe you
     remember the road from Aberdeen to Aboyne, through lovely forests
     and mountains, and how by and by you come to Deeside, and the
     Grampians. The Chieftain we went to visit owns a whole mountain,
     and many miles of land besides; and when you arrive at his estate
     there are no gates to drive into. You wind on and on, along an
     exquisite avenue through the woods, and you would not know you were
     on any one's property if you hadn't been told beforehand, though it
     is all beautifully kept--not too smart and trim, but just right to
     be picturesque and romantic. There's no impression of 'This is
     mine, not yours. You are here only on sufferance!' Instead, the
     trees and hills and heather seem to say gently, 'This is a part of
     the world where our master lives, because it is lovely and he loves
     it. He makes you welcome to come and go as you will, whoever you
     are, as if it were your own.' Don't you think that is a charming
     impression? And afterward we found out that the doors of this
     Chieftain's house are never locked. Mostly in the summer they stand
     wide open all night, although he has beautiful old silver, and
     quantities of valuable pictures and things which have been in his
     family more or less ever since there was a Scotland. It is a dear
     old sixteenth-century house, with networks of black oak beams, and
     lots of quaint bow-windows that look out on lovely lawns and
     flower-gardens, and box or holly hedges, and yew trees cut in
     fantastic shapes.

     We stayed one whole day and two nights. Wasn't it good of him to
     have us? In all the corridors there are carpets and curtains of the
     Chieftain's hunting tartan. I loved it. I do hope you have dogs'
     heads and antlers, and tartan curtains and carpets and things at
     your castle at Dhrum? It is yours, you know! I wonder if I shall
     ever see it?

     I can't tell you how excited I was when the Chieftain and several
     other Highland men he had staying in his house-party wore the kilt
     to dinner. All their knees were baked to exactly the right brown;
     but he was the smartest of the men (though some were very young and
     handsome), because he, being the head of the Clan, had a green
     velvet coat. Poor Basil and Mr. Vanneck in their ordinary evening
     things looked like nothing at all. I was quite sorry for them,
     but so glad I hadn't to sit by one at the table, as I wanted only
     to talk to the kilted men. I wore that white frock you chose for
     me--do you remember?--and a sash of the MacDonald of Dhrum dress
     tartan, which I found in Aberdeen. All during dinner the pipers
     piped, and I was so thrilled I could scarcely eat. Afterward there
     was an impromptu dance in a bare, tartan-draped room, where it
     seemed that Macbeth could quite well have been entertained. I
     thought I should have to look on, of course, as I've never learned
     to dance; but that dear Chieftain taught me the 'Petronella,' which
     is very pretty and easy to pick up. It seems as if one could not
     help dancing to the music of the pipes; don't you find it so? Queen
     Mary is supposed to have introduced the Petronella to Scotland, the
     tallest man with the brownest knees told me; and Francis I brought
     it from Spain to France. It is quite a Spanish sort of dance,
     though Scotland has adopted it. I learned a lovely Highland
     schottische, too; and after I had seen others dancing the reels
     (ought I to say foursomes or eightsomes?) I tried those too, and
     got on well, everybody said. But the reel is a dance you can dance
     only with your own hair. Mine, which I had pinned up very neatly,
     came down. And one of the girls had a curl come off. Luckily she
     didn't seem to care. She said that accidents would happen on the
     best regulated heads.

     I do so wonder, by the way, what a Highlander would do if he
     happened to be born with legs so crooked that he couldn't wear the
     kilt? I suppose he would have to emigrate when very young, or else
     stop in bed all his life.

     In the morning a dignified piper named Donal played us awake,
     walking round and round the house. It delayed my dressing
     dreadfully, pausing to gaze him out of sight every time he passed
     under my window. I could have cried when he stopped; but he played
     more while we had breakfast. I sat next to an Englishman, and would
     you believe it, the loveliest lament got on his horrid nerves, and
     he said in a low voice, 'Shall I be able to live through it?' If
     I had been engaged to him I should have broken it off at once.

     The Chieftain has a friend who is a Princess--not a little
     'pretend' princess like me, but a real one with a capital 'P'--and
     he introduced us to her at a big garden party he was having at his
     place on our day there. 'They are going on to Braemar to-morrow,'
     he said; and she being as kind and hospitable as he, promptly
     invited us to lunch with her at Braemar Castle. Mrs. Vanneck was
     pale with joy!

     We left from the Chieftain's early in the morning, and Donal
     played us away, on the best run Blunderbore has given us yet,
     through what I am sure is true Highland scenery. There are castles
     dotted about everywhere; and I saw my first Highland
     cattle--adorable little shaggy beasts with forelocks like sporans,
     and innocent short faces. Their eyes were so wide apart it seemed
     that they might be able to see round all the corners. A cherubic
     bull tried to charge Blunderbore, but changed his mind at the last
     moment owing to the persuasions of his female friends. The rough,
     dark brown forms somehow emphasized the beauty of the wild
     background, the hills painted golden and purple with bracken and
     heather, the mountains (for there seem always to be mountains in
     the distance in Scotland) looking exactly the colour of violets
     against the hyacinth blue of the sky. All sorts of Highland things
     got in our way, counting deer; and I made up rules for creatures
     which it would be very useful if they could be taught to obey.
     'Bulls kindly requested not to charge motor-cars. No sitting down
     or cud-chewing allowed in the middle of roads. Deer will please,
     when darting across, start at least six yards ahead of motors.
     Chickens will keep to their own side of the road when they have
     chosen it three times. Rabbits not to run directly ahead of the car
     for more than three miles at a stretch.'

     As we lumbered along with Blunderbore, each heather-dyed hill that
     rolled out of our way disclosed a new, or rather a very old,
     castle. I should think there must be as many castles in this part
     of the world as there are cottages. I know we saw more! except
     perhaps those sweet little dwellings grouped together in the
     charming villages of Ballater and Braemar. No wonder the King and
     Queen love this part of the world. Basil thought everything here
     quite foreign-looking: but there's always that French spirit in
     Scotland, isn't there? I'm sure the coffee is so good just because
     of that.

     It was fun having luncheon at Braemar Castle, which has more
     turrets than you can count without knowing it well. Each room
     nearly has a turret, and some have two: and on the thick wooden
     shutters names of soldiers quartered in the Castle after Prince
     Charlie days are roughly carved. Of course there's a dungeon, and
     a secret way to the far-off village and river: and when you enter
     you have to wind up and up a tower stairway with here and there a
     little deep-set iron-barred window to give you light. I wish you
     could see the Princess's Persian dog, Mirzan, of the oldest race of
     dogs in the world: yellow-white as old ivory, tall and thin and
     graceful as a blowing plume. He takes strange attitudes like dogs
     in pictures by old masters; and you feel he can't be real. He must
     have stepped stealthily out from a dim tapestry hanging on one of
     the thick stone walls, and he will have to go back to his place
     beside the sleeping tapestry knight, as soon as he has finished
     running after the doves, who have left their dovecote and are
     balancing with their coral feet on the battlements, or walking in
     the courtyard. Seeing this castle of the Princess's makes me quite
     envy you having Dunelin. I should like to live in a castle. Do
     buy Dunelin, as you said you sometimes thought of doing, and invite
     me to be a humble little member of one of your big house-parties.
     Your deserted princess, BARRIE.

LETTER FROM BARRIE TO HER MOTHER

     DEAREST BARBARA: Every prospect pleases and only man is
     vile. At least, I don't mean vile, but upsetting. It is too bad
     about Basil. I don't know what to do. I hope you aren't hoping
     that I may fall in love with him? Something he said makes me think
     he believes you want it. But why should you? You don't know him
     and his sister so very well. They aren't old friends. Darling, if I
     am a bother to you--and I know I am--I'll go far away and change my
     name and do anything you like, except marry Basil. It isn't that
     I'm too young. It seems to me if I loved a man desperately I should
     like to marry him while I was young, so as to give him all my
     years, and because I should grudge the days and weeks and months
     lived away from him. But Basil is just like a brother. He might
     hold my hand all day, and I shouldn't have a single thrill, which
     he says is the way for a girl to find out whether she's really in
     love.

     Everything might be so pleasant, if it weren't for this silliness.
     We have seen Elgin, which has the most exquisite ruined Cathedral
     that ever lived or died; and sweet Pluscarden Abbey not far off;
     and Forres, full of memories of Macbeth; and a mysterious carved
     shaft of sandstone called Sweno's Stone; and the hidden, secret
     glen of the Findhorn River, where we had to get out, and walk for
     miles through a gorge of the most entrancing beauty. Sometimes it
     was wild and grand, sometimes peaceful as a dream of fairyland.
     Every kind of lovely tree grew there, out of sheer, rocky walls red
     as coral, or pale and glistening as gray satin; and you looked far
     down on water brown as the brown of dogs' eyes--deep pools, and a
     hundred rapids and tiny cataracts filling the glen with their
     singing. But Mr. and Mrs. Vanneck would walk far ahead of us on the
     steep narrow paths, which were so slippery I had to let Basil help
     me, and it was most embarrassing and futile to keep refusing him
     all the time. He says we were meant for each other, but I know
     better!

     You remember, don't you, dear, I didn't want to take this trip? My
     feeling must have been a presentiment.

     At Culloden Moor I couldn't help crying a little over Prince
     Charlie and his brave Highlanders, for I think no other battlefield
     can keep its sadness and romantic pathos, and its effect upon the
     mind as that does. You know it's almost within sight and sound of
     the sea; and the voice of the wind among the pines--dark, straight
     ranks of pines like soldiers in mourning, standing in a
     bloodstained sea of heather--seemed to me like the wail of ghostly
     pipes playing a Highland lament. Wandering among the wavy graves
     and piled cairns of the different clans who gave their lives in
     vain for Prince Charlie, I was with Basil all alone, for those
     wretched Vannecks would go off by themselves, as usual, in the most
     marked way. He made me wipe my eyes with his handkerchief, and then
     folded it up to 'keep forever.' He does choose the strangest places
     to make love, and always contrives the minute the others go away,
     to bring the subject round to that. Luckily we are all four
     together in the car, as the chauffeur drives, but even there he
     looks at me, which is quite getting on my nerves. Yesterday I asked
     to sit in front, saying I wanted more air. It was after leaving
     Inverness; and I had the best of it, quite by accident. It was a
     horrid road, almost the only bad one we've had; full of flat holes
     which the chauffeur called 'pans,' and the others, in the back of
     the car, nearly had their spines come through the tops of their
     heads. Strange what a difference there is, sitting in the driver's
     seat! The bumping lasted all the way to Drumnadrochit, where we
     turned away from a long, straight loch to mount up into lovely
     strange country; then plunged down a steep hill to Invercannich--a
     charming place ringed round with lovely, mysterious-looking
     mountain-peaks which seem to say 'If we chose, we could tell you
     the secret of Glen Affric, which we are hiding.'

     Isn't that an alluring name--Glen Affric? A little while ago I
     should have wanted immensely to see it; but now whenever any one
     proposes walking through a glen I always argue that it would be
     better not.

     Last night we stopped at Strathpeffer, a gay and beautiful little
     cure-town, which is like a walled flower-garden set down in the
     midst of wild and stern Caledonia. The mountains are the walls; and
     heather flows round them and beats against them like a purple
     ocean. It is so foreign looking that it reminded Basil of Baden
     Baden. Now we are going on into Ross-shire, which Basil describes
     as a country of moorlands and great spaces where red deer live. But
     already we have seen deer walking quite calmly out of the forests
     on to our road, where they stop to gaze quizzically, without the
     least fear, at the car. It is almost as if they took it for a
     brother-animal. To-night we shall be at Loch Maree, and of course
     you won't get this in time to telegraph there. But perhaps you
     might wire to Ballachulish, where we shall be to-morrow. Do,
     dearest, and tell me to come back to you. In spite of all the
     loveliness, I can't stand this much longer, for I cannot make Basil
     stop without being really rude to him. You needn't keep me more
     than a day if it's inconvenient. I'll go anywhere afterward--except
     to Grandma's. Or even there, if she'll have me back!--Your loving
     and anxious BARRIE.

TELEGRAM TO BARRIE FROM MRS. BALLANTREE MACDONALD

     If you want to please me and be very happy yourself say 'Yes' to
     B. N. Splendid thing for you. Could wish nothing better for your
     future. Do relieve my mind by writing that you have decided. Yours
     lovingly and hopefully,

     BARBARA.

LETTER FROM BARRIE TO HER MOTHER

     DEAREST: Your telegram gave me the most dreadful surprise
     when I arrived here at Ballachulish, and everything else seemed
     against me too, for there was a wire from Mr. Bennett's sister
     asking Mr. and Mrs. Vanneck to make their visit to her as soon as
     possible, at that shooting lodge you told us about. They wanted to
     go, and I was the only thing that prevented them. If I had an
     enemy trying to push me into a corner this would have seemed like
     his (or her) work--just as if it had been planned on purpose. But,
     of course, that idea is nonsense. Basil said, 'Now, if you could
     only care a little, and make up your mind to wait for the love, we
     could be married at once, because I believe it's still easy to do
     these things quickly in Scotland.' But I told him I didn't feel
     as if I could, even to please Barbara, though I liked him very
     much. And I began to think that, after all, I should have to go
     back to Carlisle and beg Grandma to take me in, when who should
     come teuf-teufing up to the hotel but Mr. Somerled in the darling
     Gray Dragon. I could have cried with joy. It was like a miracle,
     because, though I thought he might come along some time, I wasn't
     expecting him then, any more than you would expect manna to fall in
     1912 just because you happened to be hungry and lost.

     You will be surprised perhaps at my feeling that I was saved from
     Basil and Grandma simply because Mr. Somerled happened to turn up
     at our hotel in his motor-car. But I haven't told you all yet. He
     wasn't alone. He had collected Duncan MacDonald and Miss MacDonald,
     and he'd come to Ballachulish looking for us. I must confess to you
     now that I wrote to him twice or three times, which was only
     polite, as he'd been so kind about rescuing me before. And you
     hadn't forbidden me to write. One of the things I told him in a
     letter was about the visit to Mrs. Payne the Vannecks might be
     making: and it occurred to him that some such complication as this
     might arise. He thought if Mr. and Mrs. Vanneck wanted to go to the
     Round House, it would be very nice for me to join my cousins (of
     course the MacDonalds are my cousins) until you are ready for me to
     come back to you. Or else I could go and stay at Dunelin Castle at
     Dhrum, for they are willing to visit him there if I do. It has been
     let to him for years, you know. As the MacDonalds are poor he was
     afraid, if he didn't take the castle, they might let or even sell
     it to some vulgar rich person who would spoil the island he loves.
     Now he may buy it himself: for Duncan MacDonald has no son, and the
     daughter is so plain and old that she can't possibly marry. Won't
     it be good to have the castle still belonging to a MacDonald? And
     it is so romantic that it should be Ian Somerled MacDonald, whom
     Duncan used to despise. But perhaps you've never heard that story?

     Now, both the father and daughter are sweet to 'their dear
     cousin,' and very kind to me--to please him, of course. Next to
     being with you, I'd rather go to Dhrum than do anything else in the
     world. Perhaps it will seem to you just the right thing, because I
     know how difficult it is to plan what to do with me for the rest of
     my life, unless I marry Basil. And maybe you wouldn't so much mind
     my not marrying him, if I had a proper place to stay for ever so
     many weeks, while you looked round?

     Mr. and Mrs. Vanneck haven't gone yet, but they will be starting
     to-morrow morning for Dundee, and from there they will go to the
     Round House. I am sorry to say I shan't miss them, as I did Mrs.
     James. Cousin Duncan and Cousin Margaret (they have told me to call
     them 'Cousin') don't seem Scottish at all, and so they are rather
     disappointing. They live in London and don't care for Dhrum, but
     they appear not to dislike the idea of visiting Mr. Somerled there.
     I believe they have often in old times visited the people to whom
     they let Dunelin Castle, but only when there was a very good chef
     and a gay house-party. Cousin Margaret has a large, high nose, and
     thin hair and a thin face and body. All her personality is thin and
     cold, as if she couldn't care much about anything. But she does
     care about women getting votes, and insists on talking politics in
     the midst of lovely scenery. She looks so like her father, it is
     quite funny, and their voices are exactly alike, slow and correct
     and exaggeratedly English; and Scottish history bores them. They
     are proud of the ancestor who ratted from Prince Charlie and fought
     with Butcher Cumberland, so we have nothing in common. But any port
     in a storm!

     I suppose I mustn't go away in the Gray Dragon till I hear from
     you? Yet surely you will say 'Yes,' as it will save you trouble,
     without my being obliged to marry Basil. I am sorry for him, but he
     will soon get over it, for he loves his writing better than
     anything else in the world, and presently he will go back to it and
     forget me. I think he likes me because I would make a new kind of
     heroine for one of his novels, and I'm quite willing he should have
     me for that.

     I suppose if I go with Mr. Somerled Mrs. West will join Basil in a
     few days, and they will continue their tour together as if nothing
     had happened to interrupt it. Of course I haven't told Mr. Somerled
     about Basil proposing, so when he suggested my going for a short
     run with the Gray Dragon in memory of old times, he invited Basil
     too. But that was before the Vannecks had looked out trains, and
     decided that they couldn't get off till to-morrow. There wouldn't
     be comfortable room for such a crowd even in the Gray Dragon.
     Anyhow, Basil refused, saying he had writing to do--and I went with
     Mr. Somerled and the cousins to the Pass of Glencoe--you know,
     don't you, 'The Glen o' Weeping'?

     It is only an afternoon excursion from Ballachulish, so I was sure
     you wouldn't object to my deciding for myself. As for Ballachulish,
     it is one of the most charming little places I've seen yet in
     Scotland, although coming here as we did from Loch Maree it would
     need to be beautiful indeed, not to be what you call in the theatre
     an 'anticlimax.' Loch Maree lies all secret and hidden among deer
     forests. Along the narrow, twisting road as you go, you hear the
     rushing sound of many rivers. Nobody had ever even dreamed of
     motor-cars when that road was made, so you have to travel slowly
     and manoeuvre whenever you meet anything if you don't want to be
     killed. Even as it was, we got mixed up with a big automobile
     loaded with fish-baskets. Our flywheel was on the ground, running
     helplessly round and round, screaming horribly, while both
     chauffeurs abused each other. Such a funny accident, and we had
     another, going up a very steep hill. We'd so little petrol that it
     ran back, as your blood does if you hold up your hand, and the
     motor would do nothing but groan till we found out what was the
     matter. Altogether it was quite an adventure going on such a road
     with such a weak, elderly car like Blunderbore: but it was worth it
     all, for Loch Maree is the beautiful birthplace of baby rainbows.
     As we came near, travelling a mere white seam in a carpet of purple
     heather stitched together with silver streams, I saw any quantity
     of unfinished rainbows, just waiting to be matched on to each other
     like bits of a puzzle. They hovered over rivulets, dancing in the
     sunlight; or stained with colour the rocks thickly silvered with a
     brocade of lichen, or else hid suddenly in the heather which,
     mingling with pale green bracken, made a straggling pattern of
     amethyst and jade for miles along the way. Oh, it was all lovely;
     and we stayed a night there, at an ideal inn where fishermen engage
     their rooms years beforehand. A dear old waiter in the Loch Maree
     hotel advised me in the kindest way never, never to speak of fresh
     herring as fish, in Scotland. I wonder why? He said, would I have
     fresh herrings or eggs? I said I'd have the fish. He said there was
     no fish, but would I try the herring? That was the way the
     subject came up.

     We had two Highland ferries to cross, getting to Ballachulish.
     Strome Ferry, which was difficult and almost dangerous because
     there was a great storm of wind just then, and Dornie Ferry. I
     liked those experiences better than almost anything we have done
     with Blunderbore. The little ferries were so much more exciting
     than a huge steam ferryboat, like that on the Tay. And in the wild,
     lost country passing Clunie Inn, it poured with rain and wind, the
     gale lashing us, rocking the car like a cradle. The spattering mud
     made us look like hideous freckled people; and so the MacDonalds
     saw me first. I hope Mr. Somerled explained I wasn't like that
     really. We had so much arguing about Mrs. Payne's telegram and what
     the Vannecks should do, that we had no time to wash, and I didn't
     seem to care if I was never clean again. But the minute the Gray
     Dragon appeared I cared fearfully. I took great pains with my
     appearance before I started out with my new cousins, for Glencoe,
     and I felt so happy that it seemed the place ought to call itself
     the Glen o' Smiling instead of the Glen o' Weeping.

     Of course, however, I lost that frivolous feeling when we were
     there, even though it was a joy to be back with the Gray Dragon;
     for the Pass of Glencoe is like the Valley of Death. It is a sad
     mouth wide open, roaring to the sky for vengeance, biting at the
     clouds with black, jagged teeth; a great mouth in a dead face wet
     with the tears of the weeping that can never be dried. It rained
     while we were there, and though rain doesn't matter to the Gray
     Dragon, it made the Pass more wild and grim if possible, filling it
     with gray, drifting ghosts: ghosts of the murdered clansmen; ghosts
     disappearing into dark, open doorways of rock castles, or falling
     on the green floor of the glen, to weep on the dim, faded purple of
     the sparse heather. The river into which the weeping cataracts shed
     their tears was black at first; but suddenly, though the rain did
     not stop, the sun tore a hole through a cloud, and shot a huge
     rainbow into the rushing water. It split into a thousand fragments,
     still gleaming under the clear brown flood: and I thought it was as
     if the MacDonald women, in trying to escape from the massacre, had
     dropped their poor treasures--their cairngorms and garnets and
     amethysts--and there the jewels had lain ever since under the
     water, because no one dared fish them out. But also I thought the
     key of the rainbow itself might be lying there; and that made me
     happy again in spite of the sadness of the place: for Mr. Somerled
     and I used to talk when we first knew each other about finding the
     key of the rainbow together: and I saw by the way he looked that he
     hadn't forgotten. It is a compliment when a man like that remembers
     anything a girl says, don't you think?

     Now, dear Barbara, I must send off this letter at once, though I
     am going to telegraph at the same time, to ask if I may accept Mr.
     Somerled's invitation. I tell you frankly I don't know how I shall
     bear it if you say no. But you won't. You are too kind and sweet,
     and you do want me to be happy and find the key of the rainbow,
     don't you?

     Your BARRIE,
     Who can hardly wait.

II

When Mrs. Ballantree MacDonald received the telegram, which reached her the day before Barrie's
letter, she showed it at once to Aline West. It read:

     "Please forgive me for not saying 'Yes' as you wish to B. N. But I
     need give no more trouble for a long time, though. Mr. and Mrs.
     Vanneck leaving to-morrow. Mr. Somerled has arrived here with my
     cousins the MacDonalds from London and I am invited to make visit
     Dunelin Castle at Dhrum. Do please let me go, unless you can have
     me. They will bring me back first to see you unless that
     inconvenient. Have just posted you long letter, but hope you will
     wire answer to this.

    "BARRIE."

"How simply fatal!" Barbara remarked, so calmly that Aline could have boxed her ears. But,
after all, it was she who cared, not Mrs. Bal. So long as Barrie was reasonably safe and reasonably
happy, and entirely out of her way (even temporarily out of her way), Barbara did not much
mind about anything else. She had wanted to punish Somerled a little for his indifference,
past and present, to her (almost) irresistible self: but she had punished him, and it had been
great fun, and she was tired of bothering. Her sense of humour, a saving grace of hers, was
tickled by his persistence, and this unexpected coup at Ballachulish with the MacDonalds. She
could not help chuckling when she thought how Aline (it had been mostly Aline) had maneuvered
to throw that poor pretty child into Basil's arms; and how, just as she seemed on the point
of succeeding, down swooped Somerled like a golden eagle of the mountains to snap the prey
out of his rival's mouth. Barbara would have preferred that her daughter should marry Basil,
since she must marry somebody to be got rid of, being so dreadfully in the way, poor pet! But
luckily Morgan Bennett had at last said what Barbara wanted him to say. He had meant all along,
no doubt, to say it--unless he had wavered from his true allegiance a little on that perilous
evening when he first saw Barrie at the theatre. Barbara was safely engaged to him now; and
though she had had to tell him that "dear little sister Barrie" would probably marry Basil
Norman, she had only said "probably." She couldn't answer for the creature--one never could
for anybody.

"How like Somerled!" she gurgled, as Aline sat speechless, with the telegram in her hand. "Now
we know where he's been. He went to London and collected the MacDonald family, when all else
had failed. He must be making it well worth their while, for they hate their native wilds.
But then--London in August! I suppose they welcomed any change. My poor dear, I am sorry if
you're fond of him, but this does look as if Somerled were tremendously in earnest. And if
he is, I don't think you and I are capable of coping with him. We must let things shape themselves,
I'm afraid."

Aline's eyes, well again now, sent out a flash such as Basil knew. "You're not going to fail
me, are you?" she exclaimed. Her impulse was to add shrilly, "Now that you've made your own
market, and don't care a rap what happens to any one else!" As she was Mrs. Bal's guest still,
and had been royally entertained, she sacrificed the momentary satisfaction. Besides, this
was the last moment in which it would be safe to offend Mrs. Bal.

"Fail you? Of course not," said Barbara. "But what more can I do? I've written and wired Barrie.
We both arranged, first for the Vannecks to stay longer, and then for them to go suddenly--or
at least to say they were going. We've done so many things, I'm quite confused. And I should
have loved Barrie to fall in love with your brother, who's perfectly charming and so sensible
about everything. But you see, I can't force the girl. And Somerled's on the spot. What do
you want me to do that I haven't done?"

"I don't want you to do anything," Aline answered, struggling to keep her head, "except to
stand by me--and Basil. I do care for Ian. I've confessed everything to you, and your not being
certain about Mr. Bennett made you so sweet and sympathetic, it was really a comfort. But I've
got my brother as well as myself to fight for. One never can be sure what he'll do for himself,
he's so modest, and always lets other men get ahead. If you'll stick to us, I'll start off
by the first train. I fancy I'll have to go to Oban or somewhere, and hire a motor. Basil has
written about ferries there are to cross. It will be terrible, alone. But if you'll stick to
me----"

"Stick to you?" repeated Barbara, hoping that Aline did not mean to put her to too much trouble.
She was a little--just a little--tired of dear Aline. It had been useful and pleasant to have
her, during this time of uncertainty concerning Morgan Bennett: a nice woman to go about with;
pretty, but not too pretty; young, yet not too young; celebrated, yet not as celebrated or
popular as herself; but now it was all settled about Morgan; and Aline had been a tiny bit
plaintive, which was boring. Also it was boring to see how stodgily George Vanneck was in love
with Mrs. West, without shadow of turning, although Barbara had tried her hand, just for fun,
at tempting him to turn. Even a worm would; but George Vanneck wouldn't, which made him seem
so slow! And Mrs. West was a woman with only two smiles, and no real sense of humour.

"All I mean is," Aline explained, uneasily feeling that she had lost her power, "will you send
me as your representative to Barrie? I can't let Ian think I have come because of him. But
you are acting, and can't possibly get away, so--as we're friends now, it would seem only natural
for me to go in your place."

"What will you do when you get to Ballachulish?"

"I'll give Barrie several reasons for marrying my brother, and if you'll let me speak for you
as well as for him and myself, I'm almost sure I can--can save her from Somerled."

At this Barbara frankly laughed, the way of putting it seemed so quaint; and as for herself,
she was feeling extraordinarily happy. She had got what she wanted from life. She had got Morgan
Bennett. And at the end of the week he was going to America for a month, which was nice, because
while feeling perfectly safe about the future, she would be able to have a little rest cure,
without bothering to be agreeable to him. He was fascinating, but strenuous. And if she need
not have Barrie staying with her after all, she could accept a charming invitation for Sunday
and part of Monday in the adorable Trossachs. It was the Duchess of Dalmelly who had asked
her, and she had thought she must refuse because Barrie was due in Glasgow on Saturday evening.
She had not felt like putting off the child again, as Morgan would be gone; yet the Duchess
did not know that Barrie existed, and Barbara didn't want her to know. Why not let things arrange
themselves, and Barrie go to Dunelin Castle with the MacDonalds? The Duchess was said to have
wonderful house-parties, and the Duke's place near Callander was famous. Barbara had never
been invited before and would like to go, especially as the fiancée of a millionaire. It would
give her new importance.

"Oh, well, you must do as you like," she said easily to Aline, "but don't fuss too much. What
is to be, will be, you know."

"Yes, I know," Aline answered dryly. "And now I'll look up trains."

III

Aline induced Mrs. Bal to telegraph Barrie, "Await my messenger"; nevertheless the girl was
greatly surprised to see Mrs. West. She had vaguely thought that Barbara might send one of
the red-headed maids, to take her back to Glasgow.

Of course Basil must have known, but he had not told. Since Somerled and the MacDonalds came,
he had kept to himself with his writing as an excuse. Now Barrie realized that certainly he
had been expecting his sister; yet he had not gone to meet her with his car. Perhaps there
had not been time: or perhaps he had an inspiration, and could not tear himself from work,
even for a few hours.

When Aline arrived at Ballachulish, Barrie and Somerled and Margaret MacDonald were walking
together by the side of fair Loch Leven. Barrie wore a white dress and no hat. The late afternoon
sun was dazzling on her hair, and as Somerled looked at her, across Miss MacDonald (it was
like Margaret to walk between them), there was an expression on his face which made Aline feel
capable of desperate things. A child like Barrie to win him away from her so easily! There
was something wrong about the world. Aline yearned to right it, and live happily ever after.
She had travelled all night by train, and had been hours in a motor-car, never once noticing
the scenery; and instead of being enchanted with Connel Ferry had regarded the crossing as
a vexatious delay. Some of the most beautiful scenes in Scotland had passed before her eyes
between Oban and Ballachulish; but if she thought of such things at all, she thought that even
a romantic writer couldn't be expected to notice irrelevant trifles like nature, when bound
up heart and soul in her own private romance.

Somerled wondered how he could possibly have found her face interesting. He did not know which
of her two smiles had less genuine human nature in it, the sad one or the gay one. And he wondered
for the first time if Basil didn't write the best part of their books.

"I've come in a great hurry on an important mission from Mrs. Ballantree MacDonald to Barrie,"
she explained to Somerled rather than to the girl, as she got stiffly out of the motor-car.
She was almost pathetically anxious not to produce the impression that this frantic journey
had been undertaken on Ian's account. If she failed, she would put George Vanneck out of his
long misery by marrying him. She would even say that they had been secretly engaged for some
time. Anything rather than Somerled should suspect the truth. But she was going to try hard
not to fail.

"I'll see Basil presently," she said when Barrie asked if they oughtn't to let him know. It
occurred to Somerled that Aline did not want to meet her brother before strangers. "Let me
just get rid of this hired motor-car--and then I must fulfil my mission before doing anything
else. Basil and I will have plenty of time together. I've finished my visit to Mrs. Bal. Dear
child, may I have a little talk with you in your own room, and give you your Barbara's message?"

Barrie was eager, yet frightened. She could hardly wait to hear what was her mother's verdict
on the Plan; but it seemed ominous that she was to learn it through Aline. Nothing good had
come to her so far through Mrs. West.

Barrie's room was small, and looked over a dovecote. The doves were mourning a good deal more
than was reasonable considering that their griefs must have happened generations ago. Their
continuous cooing rasped Aline's nerves. How would it be best to begin? She had planned it
out a dozen times in the train, and a dozen times more in the car: but a few doves and a disturbance
in an unseen family of chickens were enough to put everything out of her head. Suddenly she
began to cry. That was not a part of her design; but no inspiration could have been more useful.
The pretty, serene mask of her smooth face wrinkled up pitifully, and made her seem real and
human. Barrie's heart warmed to her for the first time.

"Oh, Mrs. West, what is it?" she exclaimed. "Nothing has happened to moth--to Barbara?"

Nothing that happened to any one except herself could have drawn tears from Aline West, but
Barrie did not know that.

"I am so--horribly unhappy!" wailed Aline, hiding her distorted face in her hands. There was
no time to fumble for a handkerchief.

"Is there anything I can do?" Barrie asked.

"There is--everything!" Aline choked. She began to realize from the girl's agitated voice that
the accident of her own tears had been providential. "But you won't do it when you know."

"I will, indeed--if I can," Barrie warmly protested.

"You have taken Ian away from me," Aline sobbed. "He was mine till you came. I worshipped him,
and he loved me. He loves me still, but we quarrelled--about you. I was jealous--I confess.
You are so young. I'm--thirty. He said he cared nothing for you in that way--that you were
only a child; but he'd promised you to take you to Edinburgh and be a sort of guardian, and
nothing would induce him to break his word. I was foolish--I tried to make it a test with him.
I said if he loved me he would tell you he'd changed his mind, that he couldn't take you. But
he wouldn't be persuaded, and so we quarrelled. Everything has been wrong between us since.
He is so proud and hard! And my heart is breaking."

"I am sorry--very sorry," Barrie answered in a queer, level voice, without any expression in
it. "Did you come here to tell me this?"

"No, oh, no," Aline said quickly. "I came from your mother. I was to tell you that she's going
to marry Mr. Bennett, and that she hopes still that you may make up your mind to accept my
brother who loves you so much, before Mr. Bennett comes back from America. He's going in a
day or two--for a few weeks. You know, it is so awkward for Barbara. If he should find out
that--little secret she's kept from him! He's rather a strange man. He can be hard. She's afraid
of him. She couldn't come to you herself, and she dares not have you back because Mr. Bennett
is still there, and if he sees you--but you understand, don't you? I offered to come. We are
great friends, she and I. But--I wanted to come for myself too. Ian is so terribly obstinate.
He made up his mind that you needed his help, and that he'd stand by you whatever happened.
It is his boast that he's never broken his word, nor failed any one. Even his love for me wouldn't
make him give up--and he won't give you up while he thinks you are alone and needing a friend.
See what he has done for you! He has gone and fetched these MacDonalds. I knew something had
happened because his chauffeur was wired for, to meet him somewhere, but it was a blow to hear
from Barbara that he'd followed you. She showed me your telegram. I almost lost hope then,
that anything could ever come right between Ian and me. But when she asked me to see you, I
thought--it seemed just possible, if I could make you understand----"

"Please tell me," Barrie said, still in that strange, dry voice, unlike hers, and very old
sounding for a young girl, "please tell me exactly what you thought I might do--when you'd
made me understand?"

"I thought you might feel that the only way to free Ian Somerled from his supposed duty would
be to marry some one else quickly. You know he blames Barbara; but if you had a husband, you
wouldn't need a guardian any more. Then, if I asked him to forgive me--and I would ask him,
for I've no pride left!--he might come back. I believe he'd be glad to come back, for we loved
each other dearly before you parted us!"

"That is true," said Barrie; "if I marry some one else he will be--released. I didn't know
what trouble I was making for him."

"No, you didn't know, of course, for he couldn't tell you," Aline agreed. "But now you do know.
Oh, the only way, if Ian is to be made happy again in spite of himself, is for you to marry
Basil. Think how happy you will make him too! And Barbara. Every one will be happy, and all
through you."

"I'll see Basil and talk to him," said Barrie.

"You will? You little angel! But I must see him first and prepare him. Are you going to do
what we all want? Even Ian wants it at heart, though he doesn't know it yet, for it would be
such a relief for him to feel you were all right, and he--could go back to--old times."

"I'd marry Basil to-morrow, if I could," Barrie replied.

"Perhaps you can," Aline said, radiant, drying her tears.

       *       *       *       *       *

Basil persuaded himself that he would have been less than man if he refused to accept his happiness,
even though he could have wished it to come to him spontaneously. But nothing, as Aline anxiously
reminded him, can be ideal in this world. And it wasn't as if it were certain that Somerled
would have married the girl if they had been let alone.

"We shall never know now what he would have done," she said, "and I for one don't want to know.
I want to know only what he will do. Even if he has been a little--infatuated, why, you told
me yourself that hearts are often caught in the rebound. I shall try so hard."

"But you are going away with us!" Basil said quickly. "You must."

"Oh, I will. I wouldn't trust you alone--to keep Barrie. But afterward I shall write him a
letter. Such a letter! Of course, we've all three quite decided now" (it was she, and Basil
reluctantly, who had decided) "merely to tell him that we're obliged to take Barrie back to
her mother; that Mrs. Bal would hear of nothing else. And it won't be a lie, because as soon
as you're married, you will take her to see Barbara. Morgan Bennett will be gone, so Mrs. Bal
won't mind--much. Have you decided where the wedding is to be?"

"Gretna Green," Basil answered with such prompt decision that Aline was surprised.

"Why Gretna Green? It's such a long way," she objected, impatient for the afterward, which
was to be her reward. "I thought one place was as good as another in Scotland nowadays, and
that----"

"I've a special reason for wanting to be married to Barrie at Gretna Green," said Basil, almost
fiercely. "For one thing, she's told me that it used to be a dream of hers. For another----"

"For another?"

"No matter. Only a fancy of mine--to rub out the recollection of something I don't like. Of
course, if Barrie objects--but I hope she won't."

Barrie did not object in words. Only her heart rebelled. But her one great wish was to put
her heart to sleep. And nothing else mattered. Nothing else must matter now.

IV

BARRIE WRITES AGAIN

This never was a story. I wrote things down, to please myself, just as they happened. But now
that the end of the heather moon has come, I must write of its last days. I think by and by
I shall send all this to Mrs. James, in California, otherwise she will never understand how
everything came about; and besides, if it hadn't been for her the end would have been very
different.

This part will have to be a sort of confession. When I began to write, I used not to say much
about my feelings, even when I was sure of them, which was seldom; but I see now that I fell
in love with my knight the minute I saw him first. I must have been fascinated, or it would
not have occurred to me to choose him as the man to buy my brooch. I might have spoken to some
one else. By the time we started on our trip and got as far as Gretna Green, I worshipped him.
That is why I was so happy. I never troubled then about what the end would be. I just gave
myself up to being happy, and it seemed as if such happiness must last forever. I used to wonder
why I wasn't more impatient to get to Edinburgh and see my mother--the one thing I started
out to do. But it was because I'd fallen in love with my knight, and he was already more important
for me than any one else in the world, more important even than Barbara.

Soon I began to suspect what was happening; and in Edinburgh I was quite, quite sure. But I
wasn't any longer perfectly happy. There were clouds over the heather moon--that sweet, kind
moon which I used to say was the best of the year for falling in love.

I stopped writing then, for if I had written it would have had to be all about my feelings.
The world was full of them. They were like gulls wheeling round a lighthouse lamp; and my heart
was the lamp.

I thought, in Edinburgh, that my knight didn't care for me as I did for him. He kept away,
and let other men go with me everywhere. Now I understand why, but then it made me miserable,
for I knew he was the One Man, and always would be. A girl who had once loved him could never
look at any one else. There were other things too that made me sad. Nobody wanted me. People
were always planning how to send me away: but the heather moon shone in spite of all, and each
evening when she came up, out of the mysterious places where she hides, she seemed to say:
"Courage. Have faith in me. Don't lose hope, and I'll show you yet where to find the rainbow
key." So I wouldn't lose hope; and I felt rewarded when my knight asked me to write to him,
and promised that by and by I should see him again.

Then a letter came, and though I couldn't think why he had gone back to Carlisle to call on
Grandma, I felt it must be for a reason connected with me; and that was cheering--just to know
that I was in his mind. About London--when he went there afterward--I wasn't so sure. But it
was the happiest day in my life when he suddenly appeared at Ballachulish. He came just in
time, it seemed, to save me as he had saved me before. I could hardly keep from showing how
I adored him. As he had come such a long way and had done so much for my sake, I thought that
perhaps after all he did care, though it seemed too wonderful to be true. Now and then, while
we were waiting to hear what Barbara would say about the invitation to Dhrum, there was a look
in his eyes that made me feel the heather moon had been my true friend. He was changed, too,
not hard and cynical as he used to be, but kind and gentle to every one, as if he had begun
to see what a beautiful place the world can be.

This made it worse when Mrs. West came, and explained that all he had done for me was for duty,
not for love: that he loved her, and I had spoiled everything for them both. Mrs. West said
that he would stick to his duty at all costs, until I was actually married, so I was glad then,
instead of sorry as I had been before, that Basil wanted me. I saw that she was right, and
the sooner it was over the better. But I didn't dare think about the future. I just went on
blindly, and did what Basil and Mrs. West told me to do. Nothing seemed to matter except to
show my knight that after all my selfishness and thoughtlessness and conceit I had freed him.

I would rather have been married anywhere than at Gretna Green, but Basil had set his heart
on that place.

We told my knight that Barbara was making me go away at once with Mrs. West and Basil; or rather,
I let them explain. I couldn't. I was afraid I should break down, and he would see how wretched
I was. It was all I could do to say "good-bye." It nearly killed me to see the hurt, surprised
look on his face. Even now I can hardly write of that.

Basil had found out about the marriage laws. We had been in Scotland for three weeks, and all
we had to do, if we wanted to be married in a hurry, was to declare before two witnesses who
knew us both, that we took each other as husband and wife. We could have done it just as well
at Ballachulish if Basil hadn't been determined it should be Gretna Green; but afterward I
thought that he, or perhaps Mrs. West, had felt it would be better to have the wedding far
away from my knight, who called himself my guardian, and might consider it his duty to object.

Mrs. West was to be one of the witnesses, and, as Barbara couldn't leave the man she was engaged
to, the very last day before he sailed, Basil thought we had better have Salomon the chauffeur
for the second witness. Mr. George Vanneck might have come on from Glasgow, but I heard Mrs.
West say to Basil, when he suggested telegraphing, "I don't want to see him just now, and especially
at the time of a wedding. He might be unreasonable."

As we needed Salomon, we went all the way in the car, instead of taking the train from Oban,
which would have saved us a few hours.

When we got to Gretna Green it was evening, but the daylight lingered still. In the south it
would already have been gone. There was a pale dusk mingling with the moonshine, and I couldn't
help remembering the mysterious light in Sweetheart Abbey, on my first night of Scotland and
the heather moon. I remembered my dream, too, the dream of the locked ebony and silver box,
which could be opened only by the key of the rainbow. It nearly broke my heart to think of
these things, and I wished it would break, so that I might die instead of marrying Basil: for
if I were dead I should be safely out of everybody's way, just the same as being married.

Basil asked me where it was that we had gone through the ceremony for the photographs, but
before I had time to answer, the car brought us to the house, and he recognized it from the
biograph pictures. He told Salomon to stop, and leaving Mrs. West and me in the car, he got
out to talk with the man of the house. Up till that moment I had been dully wishing it were
all over, and had been actually in a hurry; but suddenly I felt as if I couldn't bear being
married, and should have to run away. I longed and almost prayed for something--anything--to
happen which would put off the wedding until another day. If an earthquake had wrecked the
house I should have been delighted. But nothing did happen. Mrs. West talked cheeringly to
me while Basil was gone, saying how happy I should be all the rest of my life, and what a lovely
honeymoon her brother was planning. "I shall go away and leave you to your two selves," she
said; and though I'm afraid I almost hated her, still I longed to cry out, "Oh, don't go away!"

In a few minutes Basil came back, looking excited and rather happy, yet there was that curiously
pitiful, apologetic expression in his eyes which had been in them always lately, as if he were
ashamed and sorry about something.

"It's all right," he explained. "The man tells me we can be married here, and it's not too
late. He says a good many people come even nowadays, simply for the romance of having their
wedding at Gretna Green." Then Basil gave his hand to me, to help me down from the car. I felt
very weak, and almost sick. How different from the day when my knight and I had dashed up to
this door in the old-fashioned chaise, and played the game of being married at the anvil! How
my heart beat as he held me for an instant in his arms! I ought to have known then that I was
in love with him. Now, it was as if my heart were dying, for it felt cold and heavy as lead,
as I told myself that after this it would be wrong to call Mr. Somerled "my knight," or even
to think of him at all, since to think was to love.

Mrs. West got down from the car too, and took off her veil. Basil explained to Salomon what
it would be necessary for him to do, and how he must leave his motor for a few minutes.

My knees trembled so that I could scarcely walk. Basil noticed it, and insisted on my taking
his arm. "It's because she has been sitting still in the car so long," Mrs. West said to him
hastily. "I am often like that after a day's motoring."

"You're awfully pale," said Basil, staring at me anxiously. "You won't faint or anything, will
you?"

"Oh, no," I said. "I am quite well." I tried to speak naturally, but my voice sounded as if
it were some one else's, miles away. And for a minute, after entering the little room that
looked so familiar, I was afraid that I might cry or be somehow stupid.

"Now," said Basil, "all we have to do is to state before these witnesses that we take one another
in marriage. Isn't that it?" he asked, turning to the old man, who in the costume brought by
the photographers, had performed the ceremony over me and my knight.

"Yes, sir, that is all there is to it," he replied; but as he spoke he was peering curiously
at me. "That's all there is to what we call an irregular marriage in Scotland, such as this
is going to be. When I say 'irregular,' you mustn't think anything wrong. It's as legal as
the kind with banns. If you want to register your marriage, sir, you must make application
to the sheriff of the county; but it's just as binding and legal without."

"That is what I understood," said Basil. "But, of course, I shall have it registered. Are you
ready, Barrie?"

"Excuse me the liberty, sir," broke in the old man, "but I think this will be the young leddy
who was done for the Cinema? I know her by her hair. I'm not so sure, though, that I recognize
you, sir, or----"

"No, no, it wasn't I. That was her guardian," Basil returned hurriedly. "Now, Barrie, if you're
ready----"

"Yes, I'm ready----" I began. I found that I could speak only in a whisper. Or perhaps it was
the whirr of a passing motor outside which drowned my voice.

"Well then, come, dearest child, and stand here by me. Give me your hand----Is anything the
matter?"

I forgot to answer, the sound of that car out there was so like the well-remembered purr of
the Gray Dragon. But I seemed always to be hearing a kind of undertone of Dragon music. Often
I had turned my head as we came from Oban, to see if some car gaining on us from behind were
the Gray Dragon. It never was; and this would not be. But it was not passing after all. It
was stopping near the house--as near as Blunderbore would allow.

"Is anything the matter?" I heard the words more clearly the second time he spoke.

"No," I said. "There is nothing----"

He took my hand, which was hanging by my side, for I had forgotten to give it when he asked.
His felt very hot to the touch, so mine must have been cold. He pressed it warmly, and his
eyes called to mine. There was no light in the room, for it was not needed yet, and I could
see that his face was white. I wished above all things to pull my hand away from him.

"I, Basil, take thee, Barribel----" he began formally.

"I forbid this marriage. It mustn't go on," said a voice at the door. It sounded like the voice
of my knight: but everything was so dream-like and unreal that I thought the voice was part
of the unreality. It could not be his.

But it was. He came forward, covered with dust from head to foot, as if he had been driving
far and fast.

"Barribel MacDonald is already my wife," he said.

He took my hand away from Basil, who was so astounded that for an instant he did not resist.
But in another second a flood of rage seemed to sweep over him, giving him strength and presence
of mind.

"That's not true, and you know it!" he exclaimed, while Mrs. West stood still as a statue,
looking suddenly years older than before. "Barrie, come to me."

But my knight would not let me go. He grasped my hand so tightly that it hurt. I felt as if
my fingers would break in his, and for just that moment I was deliriously happy, until I remembered,
with a sharp pain like an icicle in my heart, that he loved Mrs. West.

"It is true," he said. "We went through the marriage ceremony here, three weeks ago, she and
I, as this man will tell you. I am a Scot, and I claim her as my wife by the law of Scotland,
unless she will swear to me now, before God, that she loves you and wants you for her husband.
If she can swear that, I will take steps to release her. What do you say, Barrie?"

"I--I like Basil very much," I stammered. "I was willing--I am willing--to marry him."

"I didn't ask if you liked, but if you loved, him. Do you?"

"I--I want to marry him," I exclaimed, strength flowing into me as I thought of Mrs. West.
"Don't be afraid, Mr. Somerled. I've troubled you enough. Even if we really are married, I
would rather die than hold you. I know everything--how it was about me you quarrelled with
her. But I've spoiled only a few weeks of your life. I won't spoil the rest. It is she who
ought to be your wife, not I."

"Who has said that to you?" he asked.

"It is her own idea!" Mrs. West cried.

"Then it is a very foolish idea," said he. "Mrs. West and I never had it. If you love Basil
Norman, Barrie, I won't stand in your way. But if you don't love him, by heaven he shan't take
you from me."

"There's no question of taking her from you. She doesn't belong to you," Basil flung back at
him. "For a marriage to be legal one of the persons concerned must have lived in Scotland for
twenty-one days----"

"I lived in Scotland seventeen years."

"But not directly before that foolish business here----"

"I have never been without a holding in Scotland. Dunelin Castle has been mine by lease for
years. Now it's mine by right of ownership. Whether our marriage was legal or not will have
to be settled by Scottish Law before the girl can marry any one else, and I shall fight in
the courts for my rights if you dispute them."

"Are you going to throw me over, Barrie?" Basil asked.

"You shall not put it to her like that!" said my knight. "Barrie, you haven't answered my question.
Do you love him?"

"No," I faltered. I could not lie.

"Do you love me?"

"You're cruel to ask me that, when you----"

"When you ought to have seen long ago, that I was at your feet, that I was mad for you, that
you were my one thought. I tried not to be a brute as well as a fool, so I stood aside and
gave all the other men who were younger, and perhaps worthier, their chance. If you had loved
anybody else I'd have let you alone. But I don't think one of those men made good. Do you love
me, Barrie? Answer me now, as if we were alone together?"

"Yes," I whispered.

He caught me in his arms, and kissed me on the mouth, holding me close against his breast.

"Then," he said, "I am your husband. Are you my wife? I ask you before these witnesses, who
know us both."

"I am your wife," I repeated after him.

"This time," he exclaimed, "we are safely married, and not all the world can part us now."

Basil and Aline went away before we did. Aline said she was going to Glasgow, to tell Barbara
how I had treated them, and to see the man she was engaged to marry: that it was all a mistake,
if not a deliberate falsehood on my part, about her thinking Ian cared for her. Basil went
with her, not saying anything at all, except:

"Good-bye, Barrie. Some day perhaps you'll understand and forgive me. I always had a presentiment
that I shouldn't be able to bring it off at the last; that Somerled would cut in and snatch
you away from me."

Ian suggested taking me to Carlisle, only eight miles away, to stay with Grandma until we could
have a more conventional wedding. But when I said, "Aren't we really and truly married, then?"
in a frightened voice, he said, "Of course we are, my darling child--married as fast as if
by book and bell. Nothing can part us. I shall never let you go out of my sight for five minutes
after this--unless you want to go."

"But I don't," I said. And a sudden thought came to me. I told him I wished he would take me
to Sweetheart Abbey. If it had been appropriate to spend the first night of the heather moon
there, as Mrs. James had said, it would be still more appropriate to spend the first night
of the honeymoon.

We bade the old man of the house good-bye and he shook hands with us both. Ian gave him something
which made him exclaim, "I thank you kindly, indeed, sir! And I must say, if you'll excuse
the liberty, I never wanted the other gentleman to get her, sir. I felt in my bones there was
something wrong, so I kept on asking questions to delay the thing. If I hadn't done that, it
would all have been fixed up before you came along."

"If it had been, I should have taken her away from him, anyhow," said Ian, "because she was
my wife, and she couldn't have been his."

"Not exactly your wife, sir," the old man tried to explain, taking him literally. "But----"

"If not in law she was in heart, and she was meant for me from the beginning of time," said Ian.

Then we went out to the dear Gray Dragon, which was white with dust, and so was dear Vedder.

"It's all right," Ian said to the stolid-looking fellow; and Vedder answered, "Hurrah to heaven,
sir!" which was a very queer expression, but I liked it, and loved him for it. Basil used to
say that chauffeurs are a strange new race of men, but I think they are splendid. I hoped that
Ian would double Vedder's wages, and afterward he did.

We drove fast to Sweetheart Abbey, with the heather moon in the east, a sweet, pale, thin-cheeked
moon, past her prime of youth, but more beautiful and kind than ever. As we flew along the
empty road, the Gray Dragon purring with joy in our joy, rabbits ran ahead of us, like tiny
messengers impatient to tell the good news of what had happened. Our big, white headlight turned
them into bouncing, gray balls, and there were dozens of them, tearing along just in front
of us sometimes, but we would not have killed or hurt one for its weight in gold.

Ian took for us at the inn the very rooms he had taken before for Mrs. James and me; and in
his arms, with no lamplight but the heather moon smiling through the window at us, I told him
about my dream of his bringing me the locked ebony and silver box, which could be opened only
with the rainbow key.

"It was a true dream, my darling," he said. "My heart was locked up in a box for many years,
and nobody but you could have opened it, for you are you, and you have the key of the rainbow
in your little hands. Never will the box be locked again. Now my heart doesn't need, doesn't
want a box, because it is forever in your keeping."

There, at Sweetheart Abbey, in the little inn where I first began to ask myself if Ian were
not the One Man beside whom all others were shadows, we told each other things and explained
things that had seemed mysterious.

I told him how I had worshipped him from the beginning, and couldn't help going on to care
more and more, though I feared that he liked Mrs. West, and thought of me only as a child.
"But I wasn't a child," I said. "From the first minute I loved you I was a woman."

"You must have been a baby, or you would never have thought for a second that I or any man
could remember Mrs. West's existence when you were there," he said scornfully. But as he was
holding me very tightly in his arms, the scorn did not hurt. "How you could believe her, when
she told you that what I did for you was from duty, I can't conceive. If you were the heroine
of one of Basil's novels there might be some excuse for you. Heroines of stories always believe
any wild thing the villain or villainess chooses to tell them, but a real girl, with brains
and eyes and at least some common sense----"

"Do you think when you're in love your common sense can stay on top?" I asked. "It seemed too
good to be true that you could love me, and she was far more fascinating than I! And you knew
and liked her first, and had asked her to take a long motor trip with you: and it was true
that you quarrelled about me. Looking back it all seemed so natural, especially remembering
how you kept away from me and schemed--actually schemed--to have me go about with other men,
why shouldn't I believe a woman much older than I, when she cried as she told me the story?
Why, at this very place, after you'd been so heavenly to me in the Abbey, you were horrid next
day, almost cross: and so you were often. You hurt my feelings a dozen times a day, and every
other man I saw was kinder."

"Because they weren't fighting a great fight with themselves, as I was," he said, holding me
a little more closely, if possible. "They, the selfish chaps, were letting themselves go. I
was saying to myself, 'Perhaps I'm too old and hard for her. I'm the first man she's ever known.
I must give her a chance to see and talk with others. For her own sake, I mustn't yield to
temptation and try to snatch her away from the rest. Norman must have his chance. Douglas must
have his chance. The American boys must have theirs----' and by Jove, you seemed to like giving
it to them! You nearly drove me out of my mind."

"I thought you were being bored with me."

"You darling, adorable little idiot, as if a man could be bored with you!"

"I didn't know."

"Well, you know now. I was nearly mad in Edinburgh, but I stuck to my principles. I wanted
to be sure one way or the other. But Norman had no gratitude. He used your mother to help him
against me----"

"That was Mrs. West, I think, who used her."

"Don't defend the fellow. It was both of them. They--and James sending for his wife--drove
me into a corner. But I wasn't going to be swept off the board without a struggle. I meant
from the beginning to fight for you, if I saw a gleam of interest in your eyes for me, and
sometimes I thought I did see it. But thanks to Mrs. Bal MacDonald, they'd got you in their
clutches, those two. It suddenly occurred to me when I lost Mrs. James, to go and get your
grandmother--bring her by force if she wouldn't come. I knew she had a sneaking kindness for
me, as a MacDonald man. There was a queer bond of sympathy between us, which we'd both felt
when we met. All our worst faults are alike. I dashed off to Carlisle--quickest way, by train,
and threw myself on the old lady's mercy--told her everything. She was a trump, though perhaps
her desire to help was as much a wish to thwart her daughter-in-law as anything else. She was
too rheumatic to come with me in the car. I suppose it was a wild scheme! But she herself suggested
my going to London to invite the MacDonalds. She thought, if I offered inducements--and she
was right. It was an inspiration on her part."

"But," I broke in, "isn't it glorious not to have chaperons at all?"

He didn't answer in words. Yet he made me understand in a far more emphatic and satisfactory
way, that he agreed.

"You can imagine what I felt when you coolly went off from Ballachulish with Norman and his
sister," Ian went on. "Then I did think it was all up--that I had been a fool for my hopes
and my pains, till dear old Vedder hummed and hawed and apologized for taking a liberty, and
mentioned that Salomon had boasted he was going to get his 'party' to Gretna Green in the shortest
time on record. 'It's a plot!' I said to myself, as Mrs. James had warned me. And five minutes
later Vedder and I and the Gray Dragon were off at a pace--well, I'm afraid we exceeded the
legal limit most of the way; but the gods looked after us."

"And so did the heather moon!" I added.

       *       *       *       *       *

Now we are at Dhrum, our own dear purple island set in a sea of gold; but first we went back
to Carlisle and visited Grandma; and to please her and Ian, I consented to be married all over
again, in church, with a special license and everything such as the conventional bride does,
though it seemed treacherous to that happy moment at Gretna Green, which was like heaven after
the valley of death. Grandma was wonderful to Ian, and very nearly nice to me. Not an unkind
word did she say of Barbara, and she didn't even refer to my running away.

"You have had the sense to choose a real man, and the good fortune to win him. I'd hardly have
thought it of you. A MacDonald too!" she remarked. And I almost loved her. Mrs. Muir made us
a wedding cake, which she insisted on our taking away, in a large tin box: and when we left
Hillard House, Heppie's nose was pinker than I ever saw it, which is saying a good deal.

Aline West was married to Mr. George Vanneck the very day we started from Carlisle for Dhrum.
We saw an account of the wedding in the paper. It was at Glasgow; and she was going to a lovely
place called St. Fillans for her honeymoon. Basil gave her away, and was to return immediately
after to Canada, "on business."

It is like a dream to be living in the vast, turreted gray castle of our ancestors, looking
out over an endless sea, and to be the mistress of such a house--I, little Barrie MacDonald,
the princess rescued from a glass retort. But it is a true dream. Ian says that he won me by
a kind of fraud, as the first Somerled won his Pictish princess; because we weren't really
married by that game we played with the photograph people at Gretna Green. Only, he made up
his mind even then, that if the wrong man ever got a hold upon me, he would use the episode
to frighten him away. How thankful I am that it happened! If it hadn't, perhaps I should have
missed my happiness: but Ian says no, he would have snatched me from Basil somehow, if not
in one way, then in another. Poor Basil, I can afford to remember him with forgiveness, and
even a kind of tenderness now! I think he always hated himself in his heart for doing what
he did. But tragedy came so near for a few hours that sometimes, if Ian is separated from me
for a moment, we have to rush to find each other, and say "It's true--after all!"

At Dunelin Castle there are all the things I used to wish for: MacDonald tartan on the walls
and floors of many rooms; and torn, faded MacDonald banners hanging in the dimness high up
on the stone walls of the great dining-hall--where we never dine. Pipers pipe us away in the
morning, and the skirl of the pipes mingles with the crying of gulls and the boom of the sea
in a thrilling way. The old servants look as if they had never been born and could never die.
They are delightfully superstitious and quaint, and not one of them would kill a spider. Neither
would I, for the matter of that! I suppose it's my MacDonald blood and my love of Bruce. You
ought to see the elaborate precautions that are taken to get rid of a spider in Dunelin Castle
without insulting or hurting its feelings!

Ian always wears the kilt; and if I hadn't loved him as much as I possibly could before, I
should have fallen in love with him all over again the day I saw him in it first. He is painting
my portrait in the Gretna Green costume; and when we are tired, we take long walks together,
I in a short tweed, with my hair down my back, Ian in the kilt. Our favourite tramp is to a
mysterious, hidden lake, surrounded with rugged black mountains like petrified guardian-dragons
watching a treasure. This wild, mountain walled lake is called the "Heart of Dhrum," and Ian
says it is no more wild or savage or dark with clouds than his heart used to be every day when
he was giving other men their chance with me. He says, too, that if the lady who used to be
imprisoned in a fearful dungeon under the dining-hall at Dunelin, and fed only with salt beef,
had been Aline West it would have served her right. He would have given her no sympathy, but
a great deal of salt and very little beef. But of course he does not mean that. His heart overflows
with kindness for all humanity nowadays, and it never was hard really. He finds the world a
glorious place with very few faults; but he says it is I who have taught him this lesson, and
that I should be able to make a skeleton-ghost, condemned to clank chains in an underground
prison through eternity, see his fate in a rose-coloured light. I love him to say foolish things.
And I love him when he says nothing at all, but only looks at me.

He has taught me to dance the Highland fling. I do it with my hair down, while the pipers pipe;
and Ian cries Hoo! and Ha! and claps his hands, as we dance, like the true Highlander he is.
He was splendid in the Games Week; for he could do the great jumps and "put" the stones as
well as the best of the Skye men who came over to compete with the men of Dhrum. And here at
Dunelin, where we danced reels till morning, on the night of the ball we gave, he danced everybody
else down--except me.

       *       *       *       *       *

This castle, which my fierce ancestors built nearly a thousand years ago, is a fairy castle
for me and for Ian. It is all our own now, to have and to hold, because he has bought it, so
it will belong to a MacDonald while it and the world lasts--I pray. We shall go to live in
America, where I hope Barbara may let me see her sometimes; but we shall have this fairy island
of purple and gold to come back to always, the hidden home of our hearts.

I used to ask myself, when the heather moon vanished behind a mountain or into the sea, in
what secret place she lurked while she hid from the world? Now I know that the purple island
of Dhrum is her fastness, and that because she loved us she brought us safely here, together.

