NEW SERIES.   SATURDAY, APRIL 3, 1852.   PRICE 11/2 d.

IMPERFECT RESPECTABILITIES.

Everybody must have had some trouble in his time with imperfect respectabilities. Nice, well-dressed,
well-housed, civil, agreeable people are they. No fault to find with them but that there is
some little flaw in their history, for which the very good (rigid) don't visit them. The degree
to which one is incommoded with imperfect respectabilities, depends of course a good deal upon
the extent of his good-nature, or his dislike of coming to strong measures in social life.
Some have an inherent complaisance which makes them all but unfit for any such operation as
cutting, or even for the less violent one of cooling off. Some take mild views of human infirmity,
and shrink from visiting it too roughly. They would rather that the sinners did not cross them;
but, since the contrary is the fact, what can they do but be civil?

One great source of perplexity in the case, is the excessive urbanity of the imperfect respectabilities
themselves. They come up to you on the street with such sunny faces, and have so many kind
inquiries to make, and so many pleasant things to say, that, for the life of you, you cannot
stiffen up as you ought to do. Some haunting recollection of a bad affair of cards, or some
awkward circumstances attending an insolvency, will come across your mind, and make you wish
the fellow in the next street; but, unluckily, there he is, cheerful, even funny, talking of
all sorts of respectable things, such as the state of the money-market, and what Sir George
said to him the other day about the reviving prospects of Protection; and what avails your
secret writhing? He holds you by the glittering eye. You listen, you make jocular observations
in reply; the cards and the insolvency vanish from your thoughts; you at length shake hands,
and part in a transport of good-humoured old acquaintanceship, and not till you have got a
hundred yards away, do you cool down sufficiently to remember that you have made a fool of
yourself by patronising an imperfect respectability.

It is, after all, not a harsh and censorious world. Let the imperfect respectabilities bear
witness. If rigid justice held rule below, or men were really persecutors of each other, there
would be no life for that class. In point of fact, they not only live, but sometimes do tolerably
well in the world. They only could do so by virtue of a certain mutual tolerance which pervades
society. It is a nice matter, however, to say what degree of imperfect respectability will
be endured. Some things, we all know, cannot be forgiven upon earth; and in such cases there
is no resource but in obscurity. But there is also a large class of offences, the consequences
of which may be overcome. Perhaps the facts do not come fully out into general notice. Perhaps
there may be some little thing to say in exculpation. If the offender can, after a short space,
continue to make his usual personal appearances, he is safe, because the great bulk of his
old friends would rather continue to recognise him, than come to a positive rupture--an event
always felt as inconvenient. Of course, they will be too well-bred to allude before him to
any unpleasant fact in his history. He will never recall it to their minds. By being thus thrown
out of all common reference, it will become obscured to a wonderful degree, insomuch that many
will at length think of it only as a kind of domestic myth, to which no importance is to be
attached. Thus Time is continually bringing in his bills of indemnity in favour of these unconfessing
culprits. Were the world as harsh as is said, we should rather be having post-facto acts to
punish them, supposing that existing statutes were insufficient.

One of the most curious points in the physiology of an imperfect respectability, is the fact
of his almost always having something remarkably agreeable and attractive about him. Going
down a peg in reputation seems somehow to have a specific effect upon the temper. From a bear
it will convert a man into a perfect lamb. He becomes obliging to the last degree, has a kind
word for everybody, and is never so happy as when he is allowed to render you some disagreeable
piece of service. Scott, who knew everything, knew this, and hence it was that he made Glossin
so very polite to the ostler at Kippletringan. When a stranger comes to settle in a country
place, the imperfect respectability is sure to be amongst the first to call and offer his services.
He likes a new family, and thinks it a duty to be ready to do the honours of the place. He
is also, to a remarkable degree, a family man. None is seen so often going about with wife
and daughters. In fact, he is exemplary in this respect. Few pews, moreover, so regularly filled
as his. When a subscription is got up, it is a positive pleasure to him to subscribe; ten times
more to be allowed to come upon the committee, and join other two in going about with a paper.
The effect of all this is, that the imperfect respectable is often a highly popular character.
Everybody likes him, and wishes him at the devil.

When the case is so strong that disappearance is imperatively necessary, then of course disappear
he must. Every now and then, some one of our old friends is thus dropping through the trap-doors
of the social stage, to be seen and heard of no more. In travelling, one is apt to come upon
some old-remembered face, which he had been accustomed to in such different circumstances that
he has a difficulty in recognising it. It may be in some village obscurity of our own country,
some German watering-place, or some American wilderness. There it is, however, the once familiar
face; and you cannot pass it unheeded. You soon discover that you have lighted upon an imperfect
respectability in exile. He is delighted to see you, seems in the highest spirits, and insists
on your coming home to see Mrs ----, and dine or spend the night. He has never been better
off anywhere. All goes well with him. It was worth his while to come here, if only for the
education of his family. As he rattles on, speaking of everything but the one thing you chiefly
think of, you cannot help being touched in spirit. You feel that there may be things you can
respect more, but many you respect that you cannot love so much.

While the imperfect respectability bears up so well before his old acquaintance, who can tell
what may be the reflections that visit his breast in moments of retirement? Let us not be too
ready to set him down as indifferent to the consequences of the sin which once so unfortunately
beset him. Let us not too easily assume that he has not felt the loss of place and reputation,
because he laughs and chats somewhat more than he used to do. I follow my poor old friend to
his home, and there see him in his solitary hours brooding over the great forfeit he has made,
and bitterly taxing himself with errors which he would be right loath to confess to the world.
He knows what men think and say of him behind his back, notwithstanding that not a symptom
of the consciousness escapes him. And let us hope that, in many cases, the contrite confession
which is withheld from men is yielded where it is more fitly due.

TALES OF THE COAST-GUARD.

THE LAST REVEL.

When I was quite a lad, a servant lived with us of the name of Anne Stacey. She had been in
the service of William Cobbett, the political writer, who resided for some years at Botley,
a village a few miles distant from Itchen. Anne might be about two or three and twenty years
of age when she came to us; and a very notable, industrious servant she was, and remarked,
moreover, as possessing a strong religious bias. Her features, everybody agreed, were comely
and intelligent. But that advantage in the matrimonial market was more than neutralised by
her unfortunate figure, which, owing, as we understood, to a fall in her childhood, was hopelessly
deformed, though still strongly set and muscular. Albeit, a sum of money--about fifty pounds--scraped
together by thrifty self-denial during a dozen years of servitude, amply compensated in the
eyes of several idle and needy young fellows for the unlovely outline of her person; and Anne,
with an infatuation too common with persons of her class and condition, and in spite of repeated
warning, and the secret misgivings, one would suppose, of her own mind, married the best-looking,
but most worthless and dissipated of them all. This man, Henry Ransome by name, was, I have
been informed, constantly intoxicated during the first three months of wedlock, and then the
ill-assorted couple disappeared from the neighbourhood of Itchen, and took up their abode in
one of the hamlets of the New Forest. Many years afterwards, when I joined the Preventive Service,
I frequently heard mention of his name as that of a man singularly skilful in defrauding the
revenue, as well as in avoiding the penalties which surround that dangerous vocation. One day,
he was pointed out to me when standing by the Cross-House near the Ferry, in company with a
comparatively youthful desperado, whose real name was John Wyatt, though generally known amongst
the smuggling fraternity and other personal intimates, by the sobriquet of Black Jack--on account,
I suppose, of his dark, heavy-browed, scowling figure-head, one of the most repulsive, I think,
I have ever seen. Anne's husband, Henry Ransome, seemed, so far as very brief observation enabled
me to judge, quite a different person from his much younger, as well as much bigger and brawnier
associate. I did not doubt that, before excessive indulgence had wasted his now pallid features,
and sapped the vigour of his thin and shaking frame, he had been a smart, good-looking chap
enough; and there was, it struck me, spite of his reputation as 'a knowing one,' considerably
more of the dupe than the knave, of the fool than the villain, in the dreary, downcast, skulking
expression that flitted over his features as his eye caught mine intently regarding him. I
noticed also that he had a dry, hard cough, and I set down in my own mind as certain that he
would, ere many months passed away, be consigned, like scores of his fellows, to a brandy-hastened
grave. He indicated my presence--proximity, rather--to Wyatt, by a nudge on the elbow, whereupon
that respectable personage swung sharply round, and returned my scrutinising gaze by one of
insolent defiance and bravado, which he contrived to render still more emphatic by thrusting
his tongue into his cheek. This done, he gathered up a coil of rope from one of the seats of
the Cross-House, and said: 'Come, Harry, let's be off. That gentleman seems to want to take
our pictures--on account that our mugs are such handsome ones, no doubt; and if it was a mildish
afternoon, I shouldn't mind having mine done; but as the weather's rather nippy like, we'd
better be toddling, I think.' They then swaggered off, and crossed the Ferry.

Two or three weeks afterwards, I again met with them, under the following circumstances:--I
landed from the Rose at Lymington, for the purpose of going by coach to Lyndhurst, a considerable
village in the New Forest, from which an ex-chancellor derives his title. I had appointed to
meet a confidential agent there at the Fox and Hounds Inn, a third-rate tavern, situate at
the foot of the hill upon which the place is built; and as the evening promised to be clear
and fine, though cold, I anticipated a bracing, cross-country walk afterwards in the direction
of Hythe, in the neighbourhood whereof dwelt a person--neither a seaman nor a smuggler--whose
favour I was just then very diligently cultivating. It was the month of November; and on being
set down at the door of the inn somewhere about six o'clock in the evening, I quietly entered
and took a seat in the smoking-room unrecognised, as I thought, by any one--for I was not in
uniform. My man had not arrived; and after waiting a few minutes, I stepped out to inquire
at the bar if such a person had been there. To my great surprise, a young woman--girl would
be a better word, for she could not be more than seventeen, or at the utmost eighteen years
old--whom I had noticed on the outside of the coach, was just asking if one Dr Lee was expected.
This was precisely the individual who was to meet me, and I looked with some curiosity at the
inquirer. She was a coarsely, but neatly attired person, of a pretty figure, interesting, but
dejected cast of features, and with large, dark, sorrowing eyes. Thoughtfulness and care were
not less marked in the humble, subdued tone in which she spoke. 'Could I sit down anywhere
till he comes?' she timidly asked, after hearing the bar-woman's reply. The servant civilly
invited her to take a seat by the bar-fire, and I returned, without saying anything, to the
smoking-room, rang the bell, and ordered a glass of brandy and water, and some biscuits. I
had been seated a very short time only, when the quick, consequential step, and sharp, cracked
voice of Dr Lee sounded along the passage; and after a momentary pause at the bar, his round,
smirking, good-humoured, knavish face looked in at the parlour-door, where, seeing me alone,
he winked with uncommon expression, and said aloud: 'A prime fire in the smoking-room, I see;
I shall treat myself to a whiff there presently.' This said, the shining face vanished, in
order, I doubted not, that its owner might confer with the young girl who had been inquiring
for him. This Lee, I must observe, had no legal right to the prefix of doctor tacked to his
name. He was merely a peripatetic quack-salver and vender of infallible medicines, who, having
wielded the pestle in an apothecary's shop for some years during his youth, had acquired a
little skill in the use of drugs, and could open a vein or draw a tooth with considerable dexterity.
He had a large, but not, I think, very remunerative practice amongst the poaching, deer-stealing,
smuggling community of those parts, to whom it was of vital importance that the hurts received
in their desperate pursuits should be tended by some one not inclined to babble of the number,
circumstances, or whereabouts of his patients. This essential condition Lee, hypocrite and
knave as he was, strictly fulfilled; and no inducement could, I think, have prevailed upon
him to betray the hiding-place of a wounded or suffering client. In other respects, he permitted
himself a more profitable freedom of action, thereto compelled, he was wont apologetically
to remark, by the wretchedly poor remuneration obtained by his medical practice. If, however,
specie was scarce amongst his clients, spirits, as his rubicund, carbuncled face flamingly
testified, were very plentiful. There was a receipt in full painted there for a prodigious
amount of drugs and chemicals, so that, on the whole, he could have had no great reason to
complain.

He soon reappeared, and took a chair by the fire, which, after civilly saluting me, he stirred
almost fiercely, eyeing as he did so the blazing coals with a half-abstracted and sullen, cowed,
disquieted look altogether unusual with him. At least wherever I had before seen him, he had
been as loquacious and boastful as a Gascon.

'What is the matter, doctor?' I said. 'You appear strangely down upon your luck all at once.'

'Hush--hush! Speak lower, sir, pray. The fact is, I have just heard that a fellow is lurking
about here--You have not, I hope, asked for me of any one?'

'I have not; but what if I had?'

'Why, you see, sir, that suspicion--calumny, Shakspeare says, could not be escaped, even if
one were pure as snow--and more especially, therefore, when one is not quite so--so----Ahem!--you
understand?'

'Very well, indeed. You would say, that when one is not actually immaculate--calumny, suspicion
takes an earlier and firmer hold.'

'Just so; exactly--and, in fact--ha!'----

The door was suddenly thrown open, and the doctor fairly leaped to his feet with ill-disguised
alarm. It was only the bar-maid, to ask if he had rung. He had not done so, and as it was perfectly
understood that I paid for all on these occasions, that fact alone was abundantly conclusive
as to the disordered state of his intellect. He now ordered brandy and water, a pipe, and a
screw of tobacco. These ministrants to a mind disturbed somewhat calmed the doctor's excitement,
and his cunning gray eyes soon brightly twinkled again through a haze of curling smoke.

'Did you notice,' he resumed, 'a female sitting in the bar? She knows you.'

'A young, intelligent-looking girl. Yes. Who is she?'

'Young!' replied Lee, evasively, I thought. 'Well, it's true she is young in years, but not
in experience--in suffering, poor girl, as I can bear witness.'

'There are, indeed, but faint indications of the mirth and lightness of youth or childhood
in those timid, apprehensive eyes of hers.'

'She never had a childhood. Girls of her condition seldom have. Her father's booked for the
next world, and by an early stage too, unless he mends his manners, and that I hardly see how
he's to do. The girl's been to Lymington to see after a place. Can't have it. Her father's
character is against her. Unfortunate; for she's a good girl.'

'I am sorry for her. But come, to business. How about the matter you wot of?'

'Here are all the particulars,' answered Lee, with an easy transition from a sentimental to
a common-sense, business-like tone, and at the same time unscrewing the lid of a tortoise-shell
tobacco-box, and taking a folded paper from it. 'I keep these matters generally here; for if
I were to drop such an article--just now, especially--I might as well be hung out to dry at once.'

I glanced over the paper. 'Place, date, hour correct, and thoroughly to be depended upon you
say, eh?'

'Correct as Cocker, I'll answer for it. It would be a spicy run for them, if there were no
man-traps in the way.'

I placed the paper in my waistcoat-pocket, and then handed the doctor his preliminary fee.
The touch of gold had not its usual electrical effect upon him. His nervous fit was coming
on again. 'I wish,' he puffed out--'I wish I was safe out of this part of the country, or else
that a certain person I know was transported; then indeed'--

'And who may that certain person be, doctor?' demanded a grim-looking rascal, as he softly
opened the door. 'Not me, I hope?'

I instantly recognised the fellow, and so did the doctor, who had again bounded from his chair,
and was shaking all over as if with ague, whilst his very carbuncles became pallid with affright.
'You--u--u,' he stammered--'You--u--u, Wyatt: God forbid!'

Wyatt was, I saw, muddled with liquor. This was lucky for poor Lee. 'Well, never mind if it
was me, old brick,' rejoined the fellow; 'or at least you have been a brick, though I'm misdoubting
you'll die a pantile after all. But here's luck; all's one for that.' He held a pewter-pot
in one hand, and a pipe in the other, and as he drank, his somewhat confused but baleful look
continued levelled savagely along the pewter at the terrified doctor. There was, I saw, mischief
in the man.

'I'd drink yours,' continued the reckless scamp, as he paused for breath, drew the back of
his pipe-hand across his mouth, and stared as steadily as he could in my face--'I'd drink your
health, if I only knew your name.'

'You'll hear it plainly enough, my fine fellow, when you're in the dock one of these days,
just before the judge sends you to the hulks, or, which is perhaps the likelier, to the gallows.
And this scamp, too,' I added, with a gesture towards Lee, whom I hardly dared venture to look
at, 'who has been pitching me such a pretty rigmarole, is, I see, a fellow-rogue to yourself.
This house appears to be little better than a thieves' rendezvous, upon my word.'

'Wyatt regarded me with a deadly scowl as he answered: 'Ay, ay, you're a brave cock, Master
Warneford, upon your own dunghill. It may be my turn some day. Here, doctor, a word with you
outside.' They both left the room, and I rang the bell, discharged the score, and was just
going when Lee returned. He was still pale and shaky, though considerably recovered from the
panic-terror excited by the sudden entrance of Wyatt.

'Thank Heaven, he's gone!' said the doctor; 'and less sour and suspicious than I feared him
to be. But tell me, sir, do you intend walking from here to Hythe?'

'I so purpose. Why do you ask?'

'Because the young girl you saw in the bar went off ten minutes ago by the same road. She was
too late for a farmer's cart which she expected to return by. Wyatt, too, is off in the same
direction.'

'She will have company then.'

'Evil company, I fear. Her father and he have lately quarrelled; and her, I know, he bears
a grudge against, for refusing, as the talk goes, to have anything to say to him.'

'Very well; don't alarm yourself. I shall soon overtake them, and you may depend the big drunken
bully shall neither insult nor molest her. Good-night.'

It was a lonely walk for a girl to take on a winter evening, although the weather was brilliantly
light and clear, and it was not yet much past seven o'clock. Except, perchance, a deer-keeper,
or a deer-stealer, it was not likely she would meet a human being for two or three miles together,
and farm and other houses near the track were very sparsely scattered here and there. I walked
swiftly on, and soon came within sight of Wyatt; but so eagerly was his attention directed
ahead, that he did not observe me till we were close abreast of each other.

'You here!' he exclaimed, fairly gnashing his teeth with rage. 'I only wish'--

'That you had one or two friends within hail, eh? Well, it's better for your own health that
you have not, depend upon it. I have four barrels with me, and each of them, as you well know,
carries a life, one of which should be yours, as sure as that black head is on your shoulders.'

He answered only by a snarl and a malediction, and we proceeded on pretty nearly together.
He appeared to be much soberer than before: perhaps the keen air had cooled him somewhat, or
he might have been shamming it a little at the inn to hoodwink the doctor. Five or six minutes
brought us to a sharp turn of the road, where we caught sight of the young woman, who was not
more than thirty or forty yards ahead. Presently, the sound of footsteps appeared to strike
her ear, for she looked quickly round, and an expression of alarm escaped her. I was in the
shadow of the road, so that, in the first instance, she saw only Wyatt. Another moment, and
her terrified glance rested upon me.

'Lieutenant Warneford!' she exclaimed.

'Ay, my good girl, that is my name. You appear frightened--not at me, I hope?'

'O no, not at you,' she hastily answered, the colour vividly returning to her pale cheeks.

'This good-looking person is, I daresay, a sweetheart of yours; so I'll just keep astern out
of ear-shot. My road lies past your dwelling.'

The girl appeared to understand me, and, reassured, walked on, Wyatt lopping sullenly along
beside her. I did not choose to have a fellow of his stamp, and in his present mood, walking
behind me.

Nothing was said that I heard for about a mile and a half, when Wyatt, with a snarling 'good-night'
to the girl, turned off by a path on the left, and was quickly out of sight.

'I am not very far from home now, sir,' said the young woman hesitatingly. She thought, perhaps,
that I might leave her, now Wyatt had disappeared.

'Pray go on, then,' I said; 'I will see you safe there, though somewhat pressed for time.'

We walked side by side, and after awhile she said in a low tone, and with still downcast eyes:
'My mother lived servant in your family once, sir.'

'The deuce! Your name is Ransome, then, I suspect.'

'Yes, sir--Mary Ransome.' A sad sigh accompanied these words. I pitied the poor girl from my
heart, but having nothing very consolatory to suggest, I held my peace.

'There is mother!' she cried in an almost joyful tone. She pointed to a woman standing in the
open doorway of a mean dwelling at no great distance, in apparently anxious expectation. Mary
Ransome hastened forwards, and whispered a few sentences to her mother, who fondly embraced her.

'I am very grateful to you, sir, for seeing Mary safely home. You do not, I daresay, remember me?'

'You are greatly changed, I perceive, and not by years alone.'

'Ah, sir!' Tears started to the eyes of both mother and daughter. 'Would you,' added the woman,
'step in a moment. Perhaps a few words from you might have effect.' She looked, whilst thus
speaking, at her weak, consumptive-looking husband, who was seated by the fireplace with a
large green baize-covered Bible open before him on a round table. There is no sermon so impressive
as that which gleams from an apparently yawning and inevitable grave; and none, too, more quickly
forgotten, if by any resource of art, and reinvigoration of nature, the tombward progress be
arrested, and life pulsate joyously again. I was about to make some remark upon the suicidal
folly of persisting in a course which almost necessarily led to misery and ruin, when the but
partially-closed doorway was darkened by the burly figure of Wyatt.

'A very nice company, by jingo!' growled the ruffian; 'you only want the doctor to be quite
complete. But hark ye, Ransome,' he continued, addressing the sick man, who cowered beneath
his scowling gaze like a beaten hound--'mind and keep a still tongue in that calf's head of
yourn, or else prepare yourself to--to take--to take--what follows. You know me as well as
I do you. Good-night.'

With this caution, the fellow disappeared; and after a few words, which the unfortunate family
were too frightened to listen to, or scarcely to hear, I also went my way.

The information received from Dr Lee relative to the contemplated run near Hurst Castle proved
strictly accurate. The surprise of the smugglers was in consequence complete, and the goods,
the value of which was considerable, were easily secured. There occurred also several of the
ordinary casualties that attend such encounters--casualties which always excited in my mind
a strong feeling of regret, that the revenue of the country could not be assured by other and
less hazardous expedients. No life was, however, lost, and we made no prisoners. To my great
surprise I caught, at the beginning of the affray, a glimpse of the bottle-green coat, drab
knee-cords, with gaiter continuations, of the doctor. They, however, very quickly vanished;
and till about a week afterwards, I concluded that their owner had escaped in a whole skin.
I was mistaken.

I had passed the evening at the house whither my steps were directed when I escorted Mary Ransome
home, and it was growing late, when the servant-maid announced that a young woman, seemingly
in great trouble, after inquiring if Lieutenant Warneford was there, had requested to see him
immediately, and was waiting below for that purpose. It was, I found, Mary Ransome, in a state
of great flurry and excitement. She brought a hastily-scribbled note from Dr Lee, to the effect
that Wyatt, from motives of suspicion, had insisted that both he and Ransome should be present
at the attempt near Hurst Castle; that the doctor, in his hurry to get out of harm's way, had
attempted a leap which, owing to his haste, awkwardness, and the frosty atmosphere and ground,
had resulted in a compound fracture of his right leg; that he had been borne off in a state
of insensibility; on recovering from which he found himself in Wyatt's power, who, by rifling
his pockets, had found some memoranda that left no doubt of Lee's treason towards the smuggling
fraternity. The bearer of the note would, he said, further explain, as he could not risk delaying
sending it for another moment--only he begged to say his life depended upon me.

'Life!' I exclaimed, addressing the pale, quaking girl; 'nonsense! Such gentry as Wyatt are
not certainly particular to a shade or two, but they rarely go that length.'

'They will make away with father as well as Dr Lee,' she shudderingly replied: 'I am sure of
it. Wyatt is mad with rage.' She trembled so violently, as hardly to be able to stand, and
I made her sit down.

'You cannot mean that the scoundrel contemplates murder?'

'Yes--yes! believe me, sir, he does. You know the Fair Rosamond, now lying off Marchwood?'
she continued, growing every instant paler and paler.

'The trader to St Michael's for oranges and other fruits?'

'That is but a blind, sir. She belongs to the same company as the boats you captured at Hurst
Castle. She will complete landing her cargo early to-morrow morning, and drop down the river
with the ebb-tide just about dawn.'

'The deuce they will! The cunning rascals. But go on. What would you further say?'

'Wyatt insists that both the doctor and my father shall sail in her. They will be carried on
board, and--and when at sea--you know--you understand'--

'Be drowned, you fear. That is possible, certainly; but I cannot think they would have more
to fear than a good keel-hauling. Still, the matter must be looked to, more especially as Lee's
predicament is owing to the information he has given the king's officers. Where are they confined?'

She described the place, which I remembered very well, having searched it not more than a fortnight
previously. I then assured her that I would get her father as well as Lee out of the smugglers'
hands by force, if necessary; upon hearing which the poor girl's agitation came to a climax,
and she went off into strong hysterics. There was no time to be lost, so committing her to
the care of the servant, I took leave of my friends, and made the best of my way to Hythe,
hard off which a boat, I knew, awaited me; revolving, as I sped along, the best mode of procedure.
I hailed the boat, and instructed one of the men--Dick Redhead, he was generally called, from
his fiery poll--a sharp, clever fellow was Dick--to proceed immediately to the house I had
left, and accompany the young woman to the spot indicated, and remain in ambush, with both
eyes wide open, about the place till I arrived. The Rose was fortunately off Southampton Quay;
we soon reached her, shifted to a larger boat, and I and a stout crew were on our way, in very
little time, to have a word with that deceitful Fair Rosamond, which we could still see lying
quietly at anchor a couple of miles up the river. We were quickly alongside, but, to our great
surprise, found no one on board. There was, however, a considerable quantity of contraband
spirits in the hold; and this not only confirmed the girl's story, but constituted the Fair
Rosamond a lawful prize. I left four men in her, with strict orders to lie close and not shew
themselves, and with the rest hastened on shore, and pushed on to the doctor's rescue. The
night was dark and stormy, which was so far the better for our purpose; but when we reached
the place, no Dick Redhead could be seen! This was queer, and prowling stealthily round the
building, we found that it was securely barred, sheltered, and fastened up, although by the
light through the chinks, and a confused hum, it seemed, of merry voices, there was a considerable
number of guests within. Still, Master Dick did not shew, and I was thoroughly at a loss how
to act. It would not certainly have been difficult to force an entrance, but I doubted that
I should be justified in doing so; besides, if they were such desperadoes as Mary Ransome intimated,
such a measure must be attended with loss of life--a risk not to be incurred except when all
less hazardous expedients had failed, and then only for a sufficient and well-defined purpose.
I was thus cogitating, when there suddenly burst forth, overpowering the howling of the wind
and the pattering of the rain, a rattling and familiar chorus, sung by at least a dozen rough
voices; and I had not a doubt that the crew of the Fair Rosamond were assisting at a farewell
revel previous to sailing, as that Hope, which tells so many flattering tales, assured them
they would, at dawn.

Such merriment did not certainly sound like the ferocious exultations of intending assassins;
still, I was very anxious to make ten or a dozen amongst them; and continuing to cast about
for the means of doing so, our attention was at length fixed upon a strange object, not unlike
a thirty-six pounder red-hot round shot, not in the least cooled by the rain, projecting inquiringly
from a small aperture, which answered for a window, halfway up the sloping roof. It proved
to be Master Dick's fiery head, but he made us out before we did him. 'Is that Bill Simpson?'
queried Dick, very anxiously. The seaman addressed, as soon as he could shove in a word edgewise
with the chorus and the numerous wind-instruments of the Forest, answered that 'it was Bill
Simpson; and who the blazes was that up there?' To which the answer was, that 'it was Dick,
and that he should be obliged, if Bill had a rope with him, he would shy up one end of it.'
Of course we had a rope: an end was shied up, made fast, and down tumbled Master Dick Redhead
without his hat, which, in his hurry, it appeared, he had left behind in the banqueting-room.
His explanation was brief and explicit. He had accompanied the young woman to the present building,
as I ordered; and being a good deal wrought upon by her grief and lamentations, had suggested
that it might be possible to get Dr Lee and her father to a place of safety without delay,
proverbially dangerous. This seemed feasible; inasmuch as the fellow left in charge by Wyatt
was found to be dead-drunk, chiefly owing, I comprehended, to some powerful ingredients infused
in his liquor by Dr Lee. All was going on swimmingly, when, just as Dick had got the doctor
on his back, an alarm was given that the crew of the Fair Rosamond were close at hand, and
Dick had but just time to climb with great difficulty into the crazy loft overhead, when a
dozen brawny fellows entered the place, and forthwith proceeded to make merry.

A brief council was now held, and it was unanimously deemed advisable that we should all climb
up to Dick's hiding-place by means of the rope, and thence contrive to drop down upon the convivial
gentlemen below, in as convenient a manner as possible, and when least expected. We soon scaled
the loft, but after-proceedings were not so easy. The loft was a make-shift, temporary one,
consisting of loose planks resting upon the cross rafters of the roof, and at a considerable
height from the floor upon which the smugglers were carousing. It would, no doubt, have been
easy enough to have slid down by a rope; but this would place the first three or four men,
if no more, at the mercy of the contrabandists, who, I could see through the wide chinks, were
all armed, and not so drunk but that they thoroughly knew what they were about. It behoved
us to be cool, and consider well the best course to pursue. Whilst doing so, I had leisure
to contemplate the scene below. Wyatt was not there; but around a table, lighted by two dip-candles
stuck in the necks of black bottles, and provided with abundance of liquor, tobacco, tin pannikins,
and clay-pipes, sat twelve or thirteen ill-favoured fellows, any one of whom a prudent man
would, I am very sure, have rather trusted with a shilling than a sovereign. The unfortunate
doctor, pale and sepulchral as the death he evidently dreaded to be near at hand, was sitting
propped up in a rude arm-chair; and Ransome, worse, I thought, than when I had seen him a few
weeks previously, was reclining on a chest, in front of which stood his wife and daughter in
a condition of feverish excitement. There at first appeared, from the temper of the roisterers,
to be no cause for any very grave apprehension; but the aspect of affairs soon changed, and
I eagerly availed myself of a suggestion of Dick Redhead's, and gave directions that preparation
for its execution should be instantly and silently commenced. The thought had struck Dick when
perched up there alone, and naturally looking about for all available means of defence, should
he be discovered. Let me restate my position and responsibilities. It was my duty to rescue
Lee, the agent of the Customs, from the dangerous predicament in which he was placed; and the
question was, how to effect this without loss of life. It would, no doubt, have been easy enough
to have turned up one or two of the loose planks, and have shot half the smugglers before they
could have made their escape. This, however, was out of the question, and hence the adoption
of Dick's proposal. It was this: in the loft where we lay, for stand upright we could not,
there was, amongst several empty ones, one full cask, containing illicit spirits of some kind,
and measuring, perhaps, between forty and fifty gallons. It was wood-hooped, and could be easily
unheaded by the men's knives, and at a given signal, be soused right upon the heads of the
party beneath, creating a consternation, confusion, and dismay, during which we might all descend,
and end the business, I hoped, without bloodshed.

This was our plan, and we had need to be quick about it, for, as I have said, the state of
affairs below had suddenly changed, and much for the worse. A whistle was heard without; the
front entrance was hastily unbarred, and in strode Wyatt, Black Jack, and well did he on this
occasion vindicate the justice of his popular designation. Everybody was in a moment silent,
and most of those who could stood up. 'What's this infernal row going on for?' he fiercely
growled. 'Do you want to get the sharks upon us again?' There was no answer, and one of the
men handed him a pannikin of liquor, which he drank greedily. 'Lee,' he savagely exclaimed,
as he put down the vessel, 'you set out with us in half an hour at latest.'

'Mercy, mercy!' gasped the nerveless, feeble wretch: 'mercy!'

'Oh, ay, we'll give you plenty of that, and some to spare. You, too, Ransome, prepare yourself,
as well as your dainty daughter here'--He stopped suddenly, not, it seemed, checked by the
frenzied outcries of the females, but by a renewed and piercing whistle on the outside. In
the meantime, our fellows were getting on famously with the hoops of the huge spirit-cask.
'Why, that is Richards' whistle,' he exclaimed. 'What the furies can this mean? Unbar the door!'

This was instantly done, and a man, a sailor by his dress, rushed in. 'The Fair Rosamond is
captured, and the preventive men are in possession of her.'

My 'Quick! quick!' to the men, though uttered too loud, from the suddenness of the surprise,
was happily lost in the rageful outburst of Wyatt. 'Hellfire!' he roared out. 'But you lie;
it cannot be.'

