As soon as Jane was fit, we joined forces with a young fellow-countryman and his sister, who
were the only other English people in the hotel, and drove out to see the Kutab Minar. On arrival
we found a comfortable dâk bungalow, and, having made an excellent breakfast, sallied forth
to view the Kutab. May I confess that I was again a little disappointed? I do not really know
exactly why, but the great tower, whose fluted shaft, dark red in the sunglow, shoots up some
270 feet into the air, did not appeal to me. It is like no other column--it is unique, marvellous,--but
it leaves me cold.

The splendid arch of the screen of the old temple, and the lovely columns of the Jain temple
opposite, attracted me far more than the Kutab Minar.

Jane and young Buxton went off to see a native jump down a well fifty feet deep for four annas.
The performance sounded curious, but unpleasant. The sightseers were much impressed! Meanwhile,
Miss Buxton and I discovered a very modern and exceedingly hideous little Hindu temple, painted
in the most appalling manner--altogether a gem of grotesqueness, and truly delightful and refreshing.

Tea in front of the dâk bungalow, in a corner blazing with "gold mohurs" and rosy oleanders,
while the driver and the syce harnessed the lean pair of horses, a final visit to the Kutab
and the great arch, and we fared back over the eleven bumpy miles that lay between us and Delhi.

A good deal of my spare time, while Jane was hors de combat, was spent in the jewellers' shops
of the Chandni chowk, the principal merchants' quarter of Delhi. I do not think that anything
very special in the way of a "bargain" is to be obtained by the amateur, although stones are
undoubtedly cheaper than in London. I saw little really fine jewellery, probably because I
was obviously unlikely to be a big buyer, but many good spinels, dark topaz, and rough emeralds.
The stones I wanted I failed to get. Alexandrites were not, and pink topaz scarce and dear.
The dealers generally tried to sell pale spinels as pink topaz. Peridot are cheaper, I think,
at home, and certainly in Cairo, and the only amethysts worth looking at are sent out from
Germany. The pale ones of the country come from Jaipur. By-the-bye, the best-coloured amethysts
I ever remember seeing were in Clermont Ferrand.

Delhi has always been connected with gems in my mind. I am not certain why. Partly, perhaps,
because the famous Peacock Throne of Shah Jehan stood in the Palace here. I cannot resist giving
the description of it in the words of Tavernier, who saw it about 1655, and who describes it
as follows:--

"This is the largest throne; it is in form like one of our field-beds, six foot long and four
broad. The cushion at the back is round like a bolster; the cushions on the sides are flat.
I counted about a hundred and eight pale rubies in collets about this throne, the least whereof
weighed a hundred carats. Emeralds I counted about a hundred and forty."

"This is the famous throne which Tamerlane began and Shah Jehan finished; and is really reported
to have cost a hundred and sixty millions and five hundred thousand livres of our money."

One can picture the enraptured diamond merchant examining this masterpiece of Oriental luxury
with awe-struck eye, appraising the size and lustre of each gem, and taking the fullest notes
with which to dazzle his countrymen on returning to the more prosaic Europe from what was then
indeed the "Gorgeous East!" This world-famous throne was seized by Nadir Shah, when he sacked
Delhi in 1739, and carried away (together with our Koh-i-noor diamond) into Persia. Dow, who
saw the famous throne some twenty years before Tavernier, describes two peacocks standing behind
it with their tails expanded, which were studded with jewels. Between the peacocks stood a
parrot, life size, cut out of a single emerald!

Friday, October 20.--Yesterday at 6 A.M. we spurned the dust of Delhi, hot and blinding, from
our feet and clambered into the train, which whirled us across the sun-baked plain to Agra.

There has been a woeful shortage of rain in the Punjab and Rajputana, and a famine seems imminent--not
a great and universal famine, as, the monsoon having been irregular, only some districts have
suffered to a serious extent, and they can be supplied from elsewhere, whereas in the great
famine of 1901 the drought parched the whole land, and no help could be given by one State
to another, all lying equally under the sun's curse. Not a great famine, perhaps; yet, to one
accustomed to the genial juiciness of the West, the miles and miles of waterless hot plains,
stretching away to where the horizon flickered in the glare, the brown and parched vegetation,
the lean and hungry-looking cattle, tended by equally lean and famished herds, caused the monotonous
view from the carriage windows to be strangely depressing.

This is the very battle-ground of Nature and the British Raj. We have given peace and, to a
certain extent, prosperity to the teeming millions of India, and they have increased and multiplied
until the land is overburthened, and Nature, with relentless will, bids Famine and Pestilence
lay waste the cities and the plains. Then Science, with irrigation works and improved hygiene,
strives hard to gain a victory, but still the struggle rages doubtfully.

Agra we liked as much as we disliked Delhi. To begin with creature comforts (and the well-being
of the body produces a pair of couleur de rose spectacles for the mental eye), Laurie's Hotel
at Agra is very much more comfortable than the den we abode in at Delhi, and after a good tiffin
we set forth with light hearts to see the Fort.

This, the accumulated achievement of the greatest of the Mogul Emperors, is a magnificent monument
of their power and pride. The earliest part, built by Akbar, is all of rich red sandstone.
The great hall of audience and other portions show his broad-minded tolerance and catholicity
of taste in being almost pure Hindu in style and decoration. Later, with Jehangir and Shah
Jehan, the high-water mark of sumptuousness was attained in the use of pure white marble, lavishly
inlaid with coloured stones.

As we wandered through halls and corridors of marble most richly wrought, while the sun-glare
outside did but emphasise the cool shade within, or filter softly through the lace-like tracery
of pierced white-marble screens, one longed to reclothe these glorious skeletons with all the
pomp of their dead magnificence--for one magic moment replace the Great Mogul upon his peacock
throne, surround him with a glittering crowd of courtiers and attendants, clothe the wide marble
floors upon which they stand with richest carpets from the looms of Persia and the North, and
drape the tall white columns with rustling canopies of silk.

Before the great audience hall let the bare garden-court again glow with a million blooms;
there let the peacocks sun themselves, their living jewels putting to shame the gems that burn
back from aigrette and from sword-hilt; see and hear the cool waters sparkling once again from
their long-dried founts, flashing in the white sunlight, and flowing over ducts cunningly inlaid
with zigzag bands to imitate the ripple of the mountain stream.

The dead frame alone is left of all this gorgeous picture. The imperishable marble glows white
in the sunlight as it did in the days of Shah Jehan. The great red bastions of the Fort frown
over the same placid Jumna, and watch each morning the pearly dome of the Taj Mahal rise like
a moon in the dawn-glow, shimmer through the parching glare of an Indian day, and at eve sink,
rosy, into the purple shadows of swiftly-falling night, as they did when Shah Jehan sat "in
the sunset-lighted balcony with his eyes fixed on the snow-white pile at the bend of the river,
and his heart full of consolation of having wrought for her he loved, through the span of twenty
years, a work that she had surely accepted at the last."[2]

We spent a long afternoon in the Fort, and drove out finally through the monstrous gateway
in a little Victoria, feeling all the time that none but elephants in all their glory of barbaric
caparison could pass through such a portal worthily.

The moon was full almost a week ago, unfortunately, so we determined that, failing moonlight,
our first visit to the Taj should be at sunset.

The two miles' drive along an excellent road was delightful, and the approach to the Taj has
been laid out with much skill as a beautiful bit of landscape garden. This care is due to Lord
Curzon, who has taken Agra and its monuments into his especial keeping.

A very small golf-course has been laid out, and the familiar form of the enthusiast could be
seen, blind to everything but the flight of time and his Haskell, hurrying round to save the
last of the daylight.

Beneath a tree was laid out a tea equipage, and a few ladies indolently putting showed that,
after all, the game was not taken too seriously.

I have no intention of trying to describe the Taj Mahal. The attempt has already been made
a thousand times. I may merely remark that the detestable Indian miniatures, and little ivory
or marble models that are, alas! so common, are incapable of giving an idea, otherwise than
misleading, of this wonderful building, which is not--as they would vainly show it--glaring,
staring, and hard, nor does its formality seem other than just what it should be.

As we saw it first--opalescent in the soft, clear light of sunset--the chief impression it
made upon us was that of size; for this we were quite unprepared.

As we approached it from the great red entrance arch, along a smooth path bordering the central
stretch of still, translucent water, the lovely dome rose fairy-like from the masses of trees
that, in their turn, formed a background of solemn green for gorgeous patches of colour, in
bloom and leaf, which glowed on either side as we advanced.

Ascending a flight of steps to the wide terrace, all of whitest marble, upon which the Taj
is raised, we realised that the detail of carving and of inlay was as perfect as the general
effect of the whole.

High as my expectations had been raised, I was not disappointed in the Taj, and that is saying
much, for one's pre-formed ideas are apt to soar beyond bounds and to suffer the fate of Icarus.
At the same time, I cannot agree with Fergusson that the Taj Mahal is the most beautiful building
in the world. I do not admit that it is possible to compare structures of such widely divergent
types as the Parthenon, the Cathedral of Chartres, the Campanile of Giotto, and the Taj Mahal,
and pronounce in favour of any one of them. It is as vain as to contend that the "Rime of the
Ancient Mariner" is a finer poem than Keats' "Eve of St. Agnes," or that the "Erl Konig" is
better music than "The Moonlight Sonata."

Perhaps it is not too much to say that it is the loveliest tomb in the world, and the finest
specimen of Mohammedan architecture in existence. If I dared to criticise what would appear
to be faultless, I should humbly suggest that the four corner minarets are not worthy of the
centre building, reminding one rather of lighthouses.

We spent a second day in Agra, revisiting the Fort and the Taj rather than seeing anything
new. We could have hired a motor and rushed out for a hurried visit to Fatehpur-Sighri, and
there was temptation in the idea; but we decided to content ourselves with the abundant food
for eye and mind which we had in these two wonderful buildings, and in the evening we took
the train for Jaipur.

Saturday, October 21.--One is apt to be cross and fussed and generally upset on being landed
on a strange platform in the dark at 5.30 A.M., as we were at Jaipur, but much solace lay in
the fact that a comfortable carriage stood waiting us and a most kind and genial host received
us on the broad verandah of his bungalow, and the cheering fact was borne in upon us that we
shall have henceforward but little to do with Indian hotels.

How one appreciates a large, cool room, good servants, good food, and last, but not least,
the society of one's kind, after two or three weeks of racket and discomfort by road and rail.

A restful morning enlivened us sufficiently to enjoy a garden party at the Residency in the
afternoon, where not only the English society, but a large number of native gentlemen, were
playing lawn-tennis with laudable energy.

After Kashmir, where Sir Amar Singh is the only native who mixes at all with the English, it
was interesting to see and meet on terms of good-fellowship these Rajput aristocrats.

Sunday, October 22.--The city of Jaipur is, I think, principally interesting as being modern
and enlightened among those of the native states.

When the ancient city of Ambér was abandoned, principally on account of its scanty water-supply,
Jaipur was built upon a regular and prearranged plan, having a great wide street down the centre,
crossed by two large thoroughfares at right angles, thus dividing the town into six rectangular
blocks.

We drove into the city in the afternoon, and were much impressed by its airiness and cleanliness.
The houses are all coated with pink stucco, picked out with white, which, in the bright atmosphere,
has, at a little distance, a charming effect. On closer inspection the real tawdriness and
want of solidity of the work become painfully apparent, and the designs in white upon the pink,
in which the wayward fancy of each householder runs riot, generally leave much to be desired,
both in design and execution.

The broad, clean main streets were a perfect kaleidoscope of colour and movement. Men in pink
pugarees--in lemon-coloured--in emerald green; women in blood-red saris, bearing shining brass
pots upon their heads, all talking, shouting, jostling--a large family of monkeys on a neighbouring
roof added their quota of conversation--calm oxen, often with red-painted horns and pink-streaked
bodies, camels, asses, horses, strolled about or pushed their way through the throng. No Hindu
cow would ever dream of making way for anybody. Yes, though! Here comes an elephant rolling
along, and the holy ones with humps discreetly retire aside, covering their retreat before
a force majeure by stepping up to the nearest greengrocer's stall and abstracting a generous
mouthful of the most succulent of his wares.

Rising in the midst of a lovely garden, just outside the city, is the Albert Hall, a remarkably
fine structure, built in accordance with the best traditions of Mohammedan architecture adapted
to modern requirements by our host, the designer. It contains both a museum of the products
of Rajputana, and also an instructive collection of objects of art and science, gathered together
for the edification of the intelligent native.

We would willingly have spent hours examining the pottery and brass work for which Jaipur is
famous, or in making friends with the denizens of the great aviary in the garden, but time
is short, and even the baby panther could only claim a few minutes of our devotion.

The Palace of the Maharajah is neither particularly interesting nor beautiful, and we did not
visit it further than to inspect the ancient observatory built by Jey Singh, with its huge
sundial, whose gnomon stands 80 feet above the ground! What we are pleased to call a superstitious
attention to times lucky or unlucky has given to astronomical observations in the East an unscientific
importance which they have not had for centuries in Europe.[3] A slight attack of fever prevented
me from going to Ambér; so I stayed at home, peacefully absorbing quinine, subsequently extracting
the following from Jane's diary:--

    "'Tea ready, mem-sahib.' The familiar and somewhat
    plaintive sound of Sabz Ali's voice roused me,
    as it so often has in tent, forest hut, or matted dounga;"

but this time I was really puzzled for a moment, on awaking, to find myself in a real comfortable
spring bed, white-enamelled and mosquito-netted, while for roof I only saw the clear, pale,
Indian sky. Then it was I remembered that, at my host's suggestion, my bed had been carried
out into the shrubbery, and that I had fallen asleep, lulled by the howling of the jackals
and the rustle of the flying squirrels in the gold mohur-tree overhead.

"Springing on to the cool, grassy carpet, and dressing quickly, to gain as much time as possible
before the rising of the hot October sun, I was soon ready for breakfast, which Miss Macgregor
and I had in the garden among the parrots and the pigeons, and the dear little squirrels. We
were ready for the road before seven, and were soon trotting along between dusty hedges of
gaunt-fingered cactus, shaded here and there by neem trees and peepuls."

"Our smart victoria was lent by a Rajput friend of Sir Swinton's, and he had also sent us his
private secretary as guide and escort--a very thin young man in a black sateen coat and gay-flowered
waistcoat."

"Through the pink-stuccoed streets of Jaipur we threaded our way--slowly, on account of the
holy pigeons breakfasting in thousands on the road, and the sacred bulls, who barely deigned
to move aside to let us pass."

"It appears to be the custom, when a man dies, for his relatives to let loose a bull in memoriam,
and the happy beast forthwith sets out to live a life of sloth and luxury. The city is his,
and every green-grocer in it is only too much honoured if the fastidious animal will condescend
to make free with his cabbages."

"Once clear of the crowded streets, we got on quicker, and about six miles out we found the
elephant which had been sent out from the royal stable to carry us to Ambér. We climbed upon
her (it was a lady elephant) in a great hurry, by means of a rickety sort of ladder, as we
were told that an elephant, if 'fresh,' was apt to rise up suddenly, to the great detriment
of the passenger who had 'not arrived.' She was a very friendly-looking creature though, and
her little eyes twinkled most affably; her face was decorated in a scheme of red and green,
and her saddle was a sort of big mattress surrounded by a railing."

"I am no judge of the paces of elephants, but this one seemed uncommonly rough; and we held
on vigorously to the railing until we reached a ridge and saw the dead city of Ambér before
us, dominated by the white marble palace, standing on a steep cliff, and reflected in the water
of the lake which laps its base."

"Up a steep and narrow path we mounted until we reached the courtyard of the ancient palace
of the ruler of Ambér, and there we alighted from our steed, and set out to explore the ruins.
First we came to a small temple, ugly enough, but interesting, for here a goat is sacrificed
every morning to Kali--a particularly hideous goddess, if the frescoes on the walls and the
golden image in the sanctuary are in any way truthful! Formerly a human sacrifice was customary,
but the unfortunate goat is found to fulfil modern requirements, since goddesses are more easily
pleased or less pampered than of yore."

"The Palace, which dates from the seventeenth century, is chiefly remarkable for its magnificent
situation, and for its court and hall of audience of marble and red sandstone."

"This work was so fine as to excite the jealousy of the Mogul Emperor, so the Prince of Ambér
had it promptly whitewashed--and whitewashed it remains to this day. Some of the brazen doors
are remarkably fine, as also those of sandal-wood, inlaid with ivory, in the women's quarters."

"We climbed to the marble court on the roof, where, canopied only by the sky and lighted by
the moon, nocturnal durbars were held. Now, in the glare of the noonday sun, we fully appreciated
the value of an evening sitting, for it was impossible to remain grilling there, even though
the view of the silent city below, falling in tier after tier to the lake--the glare only broken
here and there by patches of green garden--was superb. On either side rose the bare, rocky
ridges, fort-crowned and looking formidable even in decay, while in front the dusty road stretched
away into the haze of the dusty plains below. Of course, we should have visited the great Jain
temples and other things worthy of note; but, alas! a green garden, whose palms overhung the
lake, proved more attractive than even Jain temples, and a charming picnic on fruits and cool
drinks strengthened us sufficiently to enable us to face the hot road home, buoyed up each
mile by the nearer prospect of a tub."

       *       *       *       *       *

Jaipur is celebrated for its enamelling on gold, so our host kindly sent for an eminent jeweller
to come and show us some trifles. Expectant of a humble native carrying the usual bundle, we
were much impressed when, in due time, a dignitary drove up in a remarkably well turned out
carriage and pair. His servants were clad in a smart livery, and he himself was resplendent,
with uncut emerald earrings, and the general appearance of a certain Savoy favourite as the
"Rajah of Bong"!

Our spirits sank as he spread himself and his goods out upon the drawing-room floor, which
speedily became a glittering chaos of gold and jewelled cups, umbrella handles, boxes, scent-bottles,
and necklaces. Jane divided her admiration between a rope of fat pearls and a necklace of uncut
emeralds, either of which might have been hers at the trifling price of some 7000 rupees, but
we finally restricted our acquisitions to very modest proportions, and the stout jeweller departed,
apparently no whit less cheerful than when he came.

The modern brass-work of Jaipur is somewhat attractive, and we bought various articles--a tall
lamp-stand, an elephant bell, and a few ordinary bowls of excellent shape.

I have remarked before on the extreme tameness of, and the confidence shown by, wild creatures
out here. A titmouse came and perched on the arm of my chair while sitting reading on the verandah
at Gulmarg.

The rats and mice, who own the forest houses in the Machipura, have to be kicked off the beds
at night. But the little grey squirrels in Sir Swinton Jacob's garden are--facile princeps--the
boldest wild-fowl we have yet encountered.

Every afternoon about three, when tea was toward, the squirrels gathered on the gravel path,
and prepared to receive bread and butter.

After a few nervous darts and tail whiskings, a bold squirrel would skip up close, and, after
eating a little ground bait, would boldly come up and nibble out of a motionless hand. In two
minutes half-a-dozen pretty little creatures would be fidgeting round, eating bread and butter
daintily, neatly holding the morsel in their little forepaws and nuzzling into one's fingers
for more.

A handsome magpie, and, of course, a contingent of crows, made up the fascinating party; while
in the background, among the neem trees and the flaming "gold mohurs," the minahs and green
parrots sustained an incessant and riotous conversation.

Wednesday, October 25.--Gladly would we have accepted the Jacobs' invitation to stay longer
at Jaipur. We would have liked nothing better, but time was flying, and the 5th November--our
day of departure from Bombay--was drawing rapidly near. So yesterday evening we took the 6.30
train for Ajmere, and, reaching there at 10.30, changed into the narrow-gauge railway for Chitor.
We are becoming well accustomed to sleeping in an Indian train, and Sabz Ali had our beds unrolled
and our innumerable hand luggage stowed away in no time, including four bottles of soda-water,
which he has carefully garnered in the washstand, and which no hints, however broad, will induce
him to relinquish.

[1] "Au dessus du ciel qui est faite en voûte à quatre pans on voit un
    Paon, qui a la queue relevée fait de Saphirs bleus et autres pierres
    de couleur."--TAVERNIER, livre ii. chap. viii.

[2] The Web of Indian Life

[3] I fear this is somewhat misleading. Jey Singh was, par excellence,
    an astronomer, not an astrologer,--T. R. S.

CHAPTER XVI

UDAIPUR

We arrived, very sleepy and gritty, at Chitor at 5.30 A.M., to find an unprecedented mob of
first-class passengers en route for Udaipur, and only one very minute compartment in which
to stow them.

The station-master--a solemn Baboo, full of his own importance, becomingly clad in a waving
white petticoat, with bare legs and elastic-sided boots, surmounted by a long cutaway frock-coat,
topped by a black skull-cap, and finally decorated by a pen behind his ear--seemed totally
unable to cope with the terrible problem he was set to solve.

I suggested that another carriage should be put on, but he had none, nor any solution to offer;
so we cleared a second-class compartment and divided the party out, and then, with five people
in our tiny compartment, we set out on the fifty-mile run to Udaipur.

Five people in a carriage in Europe is nowise unusual, but five people in an Indian one (and
that a narrow, very narrow gauge), accompanied by rolls of bedding, tiffin-baskets, and all
the quantity of personal luggage which is absolutely necessary, not to speak of a large-sized
bird-cage (which cannot, strictly speaking, be classed as a necessary), requires the ingenuity
of a professional packer of herrings or figs to adjust nicely!

By cramming the toilet place with bedding, khudsticks, a five-foot brass lamp-stand, and the
four soda-water bottles, we made shift to stow portmanteaux, bags, tiffin-baskets, &c., under
the seats and ourselves upon them, and then arranged a sort of centre-piece of Jane's big tin
bonnet-box, surmounted by Freddy in his cage. The other passengers were very amiably disposed,
and not fat, and they even went so far as to pretend to admire Freddy--a feat of some difficulty,
as he is still very bald and of an altogether forbidding aspect. This admiration so won upon
the heart of Jane, that in the fulness thereof she served out biscuits and a little tinned
butter all round, while Freddy cheerfully spattered food and water upon all indiscriminately.

About eighteen miles from Udaipur we passed the ruins of Ontala. Here, in the stormy time when
Jehangir had seized Chitor, there happened a desperate deed.

The Rana of Mewar, expelled from his capital, determined to attack and retake Ontala. Now,
the Rajputs were divided into clans as fiery as any of those whose fatal pride went far to
ruin Bonnie Prince Charlie at Culloden. The Chondawats and the Saktawats both claimed the right
of forming the vanguard, and the Rana, unable to pronounce in favour of either, subtly decided
that the van should be given to the clan which should first enter Ontala.

The Saktawats then made straight for the one and only gateway to the fortress, and, reaching
it as day broke, almost surprised the place, but the walls were quickly manned and defended.
Foiled for a moment, the leader of the Saktawats threw himself from his elephant, and, placing
himself before the great spikes with which the gate was protected against the assault of the
beast, ordered the mahout to charge; and so a crushed and mangled corpse was forced into the
city on the brow of the living battering-ram, in whose wake the assailants rushed to battle.

Alas! his sacrifice was in vain. The Chondawat chief was already in Ontala. First of the stormers
with scaling-ladders, he was shot dead by the defenders ere reaching the top of the rampart,
and his corpse fell back among his dismayed followers. Then the chief of Deogurh, rolling the
body in his scarf, tied it upon his back, fought his way to the crest of the battlements, and
hurled the gory body of his chieftain into the city, shouting, "The vanguard to the Chondawat!"

It is further told how, when the attack began, two Mogul chiefs of note were engaged within
upon a game of chess. Confident of the strength of the defence, they continued their game,
unheeding the din of battle. Suddenly the foe broke in upon them, upon which they calmly asked
for leave to finish their interesting match. The request was granted by the courtly Rajputs,
but upon its termination they were both put to death.

Udaipur lies in a well-cultivated basin, shut in by a ring of arid hills. After skirting the
flanks of some of the outlying spurs, we bustled through a tunnel and drew up at a bright little
station, draped with great blue and pink convolvulus. And this was Udaipur.

We were picked out of the usual jabbering, jostling, gibbering crowd of natives by our host,
who, looking most enviably cool and clean, took his heated, dishevelled, and unbarbered guests
off to a comfortable carriage, and we were quickly sped towards tiffin and a bath.

The station is a long way from the town, as the Maharana, a most staunch conservative of the
old school, having the railway more or less forced upon him, drew the line at three miles from
his capital, and fixed the terminus there. One cannot help being glad that the prosaic steam-engine,
crowned with foul smoke and heralded by ear-piercing whistles, has not been allowed to trespass
in Udaipur, wherein no discordant note is struck by train line or factory chimney, and where
everything and every one is as when the city was newly built on the final abandonment of Chitor,
the ancient capital of Mewar.

Here in the heart of the most conservative of native States, whose ruler, the Maharana, Sir
Fateh Singh, claims descent from that ancient luminary the Sun, we found novelty and interest
in every yard of the three miles that stretch between the station and the capital. The scrub-covered
desert has given place to a wooded and cultivated valley, ringed by a chain of hills, sterile
and steep. The white ribbon of the road, through whose dust plough stolid buffaloes and strings
of creaking bullock-carts, is bordered by tall cactus and yellow-flowered mimosa on either
side. Among the trees rise countless half-ruined temples and chatries; on whose whitewashed
walls are frequent frescoes of tigers or elephants rampant, and of wonderful Rajput heroes
wearing the curious bell-shaped skirt, which was their distinctive dress.

The people too, their descendants, who crowd the road to-day, are remarkable--the men fine-looking,
with beards brushed ferociously upwards, and all but the mere peasants carrying swords; the
women, dark-eyed, and singularly graceful in their red or orange saris, and very full bell-shaped
petticoats. Upright as darts, they walk with slightly swaying gesture, a slender brown arm
upraised to support the big brass chatties on their heads, revealing an incredible collection
of bangles on arms and ankles. These women are the descendants of those who, in the stormy
days of the sixteenth century, while the Rajput princes still struggled heroically with the
all-powerful Mogul emperors, preferred death to shame, and, led by Kurnavati (mother of Oodi
Singh, the founder of Udaipur), accepted the "Johur," or death by fire and suffocation, to
the number of 13,000, while their husbands and brothers threw open the city gates and went
forth to fight and fall.

As we drew near our destination the towers of the Maharana's Palace rose up above the trees,
gleaming snowy in the cloudless blue. The brown crenellated walls of the city appeared on our
left, and, suddenly sweeping round a curve, we found ourselves by the border of a lovely lake,
whose blue-rippled waters lapped the very walls of the town. In the foreground a glorious note
of colour was struck by a group of "scarlet women" washing themselves and their clothes by
the margin.

Up a steep incline, and we found ourselves before a verandah, blazing overhead with bougainvillea,
and our hostess waiting to receive us beneath its cool shade.

In the afternoon, refreshed and rested, we went down to the shore, where our host had arranged
for a state-owned boat and four rowers to be in waiting. Armed with rods and fishing tackle,
we proceeded to see Udaipur from the lake which washes its northern side. First crossing a
small landlocked bay bordered on the left by a long and picturesque crenellated wall, and passing
through a narrow opening, we found ourselves in a second division of the water; on the left,
still the wall, with a delightful-looking summer-house perched at a salient angle; on the right,
small wooded islands, the haunt of innumerable cormorants, who, with snaky necks outstretched,
watched us suspiciously from their eyrie.

A curious white bridge, very high in the centre, barred the view of the main lake till, passing
through the central arch, we found ourselves in a scene of perfect enchantment. Before us the
level sheet of molten silver lay spread, reflecting the snowy palaces and summer-houses that
stood amid the palms and greenery of many tiny islands. On the left the city rose from the
water in a succession of temples and wide-terraced buildings, culminating in the lofty pile
of the Palace of the Maharana. Here, on this enchanted lake, we rowed to and fro until the
sun sank swiftly in the west and the red gold glowed on temple and turret.

Then, with our catch, about 15 lbs. weight of most excellent fish, we rowed back past the white
city to the landing-place, and, in the gathering dark, climbed the hillock upon which stood
our host's bungalow.

We spent a week at Udaipur--a happy week, whose short days flew by far too quickly. The weather
was splendid; hot in the middle of the day--for the season is late, and the monsoon has greatly
failed in its cooling duty--but delightful in morning and evening.

Rising one morning at early dawn, before the sun leaped above the eastern hills, we took boat
and rowed to one of the island palaces, where, after fishing for mahseer, we breakfasted on
a marble balcony overlooking the ripples of the Pichola Lake, which lapped the feet of a group
of great marble elephants.

Not the least interesting expedition was to the south end of the lake one afternoon to see
the wild pigs fed. Traversing the whole length of the Pichola, past the marble ghâts where
the crimson-clad women washed and chattered, while above them rose the roofs and temple domes
of the fairy city culminating in the walls and pinnacles of the palace--past the fleet of queer
green barges wherein the Maharana disports himself when aquatically inclined, we left the many
islands marble-crowned on our right; and finally landed at a little jutting ledge of rock,
whence a jungle track led us in a few minutes to a terrace overlooking a rocky and steep slope
which fell away from the building near which we stood. The scene was surprising! Hundreds of
swine of all sorts and sizes, from grim slab-sided, gaunt-headed old boars, whose ancient tusks
showed menacing, to the liveliest and sprightliest of little pigs playing hide-and-seek among
their staid relatives, were collected from the neighbouring jungle to scramble for the daily
dole of grain spread for them by the Maharana.

A cloud of dust rose thick in the air, stirred up by the busy feet and snouts of the multitude,
and grunts and squeals were loud and frequent as a frisky party of younglings in their play
would heedlessly bump up against some short-tempered old boar, who in his turn would angrily
butt a too venturesome rival in the wind and send him, expostulating noisily, down the hill!

Beyond the crowd of swine on the edge of the clearing, a few peacocks, attracted by the prospect
of a meal, held themselves strictly aloof from the vulgar herd.

The whole city of Udaipur is a paradise for the artist--not a corner, not a creature which
does not seem to cry aloud to be painted. The only difficulty in such embarras de richesses
of subject and such scantiness of time, is to decide what not to do.

Hardly has the enthusiastic amateur sat down to delineate the stately pile of the palace, soaring
aloft amid its enveloping greenery, than he is attracted by a fascinating glimpse of the lake,
where, perhaps, a royal elephant comes down to drink, or a crimson-clad bevy of Rajputni lasses
stoop to fill their brazen chatties with much chatter and laughter.

Bewildered by such wealth of subject, one is but too apt to sit at gaze, and finally go home
with merely a dozen pages of scribbles added to the little canvas jotting-book!

The Palace of the Maharana is a very splendid pile of buildings, as seen from some little distance
crowning the ridge which rises to the south of the lake, but it loses much of its beauty when
closely viewed. It is, of course, not to be compared architecturally with the master-works
of Agra and Delhi, and the internal decorations are usually tawdry and uninteresting. The entrance
is fine; the visitor ascends the steep street to the principal gate, a massive portal, strengthened
against the battering of elephants by huge spikes, and decorated by a pair of these animals
in fresco-rampant. Beyond the first gate rises a second or inner gate. On the right are huge
stables where the royal elephants are kept, and on the left stand a row of curious arches,
beneath one of which the Maharanas of old were wont to be weighed against bullion after a victory,
the equivalent to the royal avoirdupois being distributed as largesse to his people!

Within the gates, a long and wide terrace stretches along the entire front of the Palace, on
the face of which is emblazoned the Sun of Mewar, the emblem of the Sesodias. This terrace
was evidently the happy home of a great number of cows, peacocks, geese, and pigeons, which
stalked calmly enough, among the motley crowd of natives, and gave one the impression of a
glorified farmyard. The building itself, like most Indian palaces, is composed of a heterogeneous
agglomeration in all sorts of sizes and styles. Each successive Maharana having apparently
added a bit here and a bit there as his capricious fancy prompted.

Jane visited the armoury to-day with the Resident, who went to choose a shield to be presented
by the Maharana to the Victoria Museum at Calcutta. I chose to go sketching, and was derided
by Jane for missing such a chance of seeing what is not shown to visitors as a rule. She whisked
away in great pomp in the Residential chariot, preceded by two prancing sowars on horseback,
and subsequently thus related her experiences:--

       *       *       *       *       *

"We really drove up far too fast to the Palace, I was so much interested in the delightful
streets; and we just whizzed past the innumerable shrines and queer shops, and frescoed walls,
where extraordinary lions and tigers, and Rajput warriors, riding in wide petticoats on prancing
steeds, were depicted in flaming colours. I wanted, too, to gaze at the native women, in their
accordion-pleated, dancing frocks of crimson or dark blue; but it seemed to be the correct
thing for a 'Personage' to drive as fast as possible, and try to run over a few people just
to show them what unconsidered trifles they were. Well, we were received at the entrance to
the Palace by one of the Prime Ministers. There are two Prime Ministers--one to criticise and
frustrate the schemes of the other; the result being, as the Resident remarked, that it is
not easy to get any business done. Our Prime Minister was dressed in a coat of royal purple
velvet, on his head was wound a big green turban, and round his neck hung a lovely necklet
of pearls and emeralds, with a pendant of the same, he had also earrings to match. It was truly
pitiful to see such ornaments wasted on a fat old man."

"Going up a narrow and rather steep staircase, we came to a small hall full of retainers of
his Highness, waiting until it should please him to appear and breakfast with them, for it
is the custom of the Maharana to make that meal a sort of public function. In the middle of
the hall reposed a big bull, evidently very much at ease and quite at home!"

"A few more steps brought us to the door of the armoury. This is small and badly arranged,
which seems a pity, as there were some lovely things. Chain armour and inlaid suits lay about
the floor in heaps; and we were shown the saddle used by Akbar during the last siege of Chitor.
The most remarkable things, however, were the Rajput shields, of which there were some beautiful
specimens. They are circular, not large, and made, some of tortoiseshell, some of polished
hippo hide, &c. One was inlaid with great emeralds, a second had bosses of turquoise, and a
really lovely one was inlaid with fine Jaipur enamel in blue and green. There were swords simply
encrusted with jewels--one with a hilt of carved crystal; another was a curiously-modelled
dog's head in smooth silver, and I noticed a beauty in pale jade. Altogether it was a most
fascinating collection, different from, but in its way quite as interesting, as the fine armoury
at Madrid."

Thus did Jane triumph over me with her description of what she had seen and what I had missed;
and I had been trying to delineate the Temple of Jagganath, and had been disastrously defeated,
for it is indeed a complicated piece of drawing, and the children, both large and small, crowded
round me to my great hindrance. Therefore, it was not until I had been soothed with an excellent
lunch, and the contents of a very long tumbler, that I felt strong enough to take an intelligent
interest in the contents of the Maharana's curiosity-shop!

Monday, October 30.--The more we see of Udaipur the more we are charmed with it. The whole
place is so absolutely unspoilt by modernism, is so purely Eastern--and ancient Eastern at
that--that we feel as though we were in a little world far apart from the great one where steam
and electricity shatter the nerves, and drive their victims through life at high pressure.

Ringed in by a rampart of arid hills, beyond which the scrub-covered desert stretches for miles,
the peaceful city of Udaipur lies secluded in an oasis, whose centre is a turquoise lake. High
in his palace the Maharana rules in feudal state, and, like Aytoun's Scottish Cavalier,

  "A thousand vassals dwelt around--all of his kindred they,
  And not a man of all that clan has ever ceased to pray
  For the royal race he loves so well."

For to his subjects the Maharana is little less than a divinity, for is he not a direct descendant
of the Sun? Likewise is he not the chief of the only royal house of Rajputana, who disdained
to purchase Mogul friendship at the price of giving a daughter in marriage to the Mohammedan?

There are greater personages among the ruling Princes of India, according to British ruling--Hyderabad,
for instance. And in the matter of precedence and the number of guns for ceremonial salutation,
the Chief of Mewar--like other poor but proud nobles--is treated rather according to his actual
power than the cloudless blue of his blood. Hence he is extremely unwilling to put himself
in a position where he might fail to obtain the honour which he considers due to him. He was
most averse from attending the Delhi Durbar, but such pressure was put upon him that he was
induced to proceed thither in his special train running, as far as Chitorgarh, upon his own
special railway. He reached Delhi, and his sponsors rejoiced that they had indeed got him to
the water, although they had not exactly induced him to drink. As a matter of fact, the Maharana,
having gone to Delhi to please the British authorities, promptly returned to Udaipur to please
himself, alleging a terrific headache as reason for instant departure from the capital, without
his having left his very own specially reserved first-class compartment!

He may not be a willing guest, but he is evidently disposed to be an excellent host, for great
preparations are toward for the reception of the Prince of Wales, who is expected in the course
of a fortnight or so.

The Residency, too, is being swept and garnished, the garden already looking like a miniature
camp, with tents for the suite all among the flower-beds.

Tuesday, October 31.--A day or two ago we arose betimes, and before sunrise embarked in the
State gig (which was always, apparently, placed at our host's disposal on demand), and set
forth to catch fish for our breakfast, and then proceed to eat the same on one of the island
palaces on the lake. We did not catch many fish--the mahseer were shy that morning--but fortunately
we did not entirely depend on the caprices of the mahseer for our sustenance, and a remarkably
well-fed and contented quartette we were when we got into the gig while the day was yet young,
and rowed home as quickly as might be in order to escape the heat which at noonday is still great.

This afternoon we went for a (to us) novel tea picnic. A State elephant appeared by request,
and we climbed upon him with ladders, and he proceeded to roll leisurely along at the rate
of about two and a half miles an hour towards the foot of a hill, on the top of which stood
a small summer palace.

The afternoon was warm, and the rhythmic pace drowsy, but our steed was determined to amuse
us and benefit himself. So he blew great blasts of spray at his own forelegs and chest to cool
himself, and now and then made shocking bad shots at so large a target, and, getting a trifle
too much elevation, nearly swept us from our lofty perch.

Fortunately his stock of spray gave out ere long, or he found that the increasing gradient
of the hill took all his breath, for we were left at leisure to admire the widening view until
we reached the top.

Here we had tea in one of the cool halls, and then sat watching the sun sink towards the hills
that stretch to Mount Aboo.

To the south-east lay Udaipur, milk-white along the margin of its "marléd" waters.

On our way home we met with an adventure. While prattling to my hostess, I observed that our
toes were rising unduly, the saddle or howdah being seated somewhat after the fashion of an
outside car. Glancing over my shoulder I descried Jane and her partner far below their proper
level. The howdah was coming round, and our steed was eleven feet high! Agonised yells to the
gentleman who guided the deliberate steps of the pachyderm from a coign of vantage on the back
of his neck, awoke him to an appreciation of the situation. The elephant was "hove to" with
all possible despatch, and we crawled off his back with the greatest celerity. We then sat
down by the roadside and superintended the righting of the saddle and the tautening of the
girths by several natives, who "took in the slack" with an energy that must have made the poor
elephant very "uncomfy" about the waist! I secretly hoped it was hurting him horribly, as I
had not forgiven him for his practical jokes on the way up.

We had no more thrills. Resuming our motor 'bus, in due course, we were landed opposite the
top of our host's verandah, whereupon the beast shut himself up like a three-foot rule, and
we got to ground.

The inexorable flight of time brought us all too soon to the limit of our stay at Udaipur.
Early on Wednesday the 1st November, therefore, we bade adieu to the capital of the State of
Mewar, and, accompanied by our kind host and hostess, set out to spend a day in exploring the
ruined city of Chitor before taking train for Bombay.

As we drove to the station, we passed the group of ancient "chatries" or tombs of dead and
gone Ranas of Mewar, and halted for a short inspection, as, the train by which we were to travel
to Chitorgarh being a "special," we were not bound to a precise moment for our appearance on
the platform.

Jane, who is perfectly Athenian in her passion for novelty, decided to travel on the engine,
and proceeded to do so; until, at the first halting-place, a grimy and somewhat dishevelled
female climbed into our carriage, and the next half-hour was fully occupied in scooping smuts
out of her eyes with teaspoons.

It had been arranged that an elephant should await our arrival at Chitorgarh to take us up
to the ancient city, but a careful search into every nook and cranny failed to reveal the missing
animal.

So my host and I set out on foot to cross a mile or so of plain which spread in deceptive smoothness
between us and the ascent to the city. What seemed a serene and level track became quickly
entangled in a maze of rough little knobs and nullahs, and we took a vast amount of exercise
before arriving at the old bridge which spans the Gamberi River.

Meanwhile, towering over the scrubby bushes and surrounded by a dusty halo, the dilatory pachyderm
bore down upon us, and, after the mahout had been interviewed in unmeasured terms by my host,
went rolling slowly to the station to pick up the ladies.

The ancient city of Chitor lies crumbling and desolate on the back of a long, level-topped
hill, which rises solitary to the height of some five hundred feet above the far-stretching
plain. Kipling likens it to a great ship, up the sides of which the steep road slopes like
a gangway. At the foot lies the modern village, squalid but picturesque.

As we toil, perspiring, up the long ramp which for a weary mile slopes sidelong up the scarped
flank of the mountain, and pass through the seven gates which guarded the way, and every one
of which was the scene of many a grim and bloody struggle, I will try to sketch the outline
of the history of the famous fort, for many centuries the headquarters of the royal race of Mewar.

The Gehlotes, or (as they were afterwards styled) the Sesodias, claim descent from the Sun
through Manu, Icshwaca, and Rama Chandra, as indeed do the other Rajput potentates of Jaipur,
Marwar, and Bikanir, the Rana of Mewar, however, taking precedence owing to his descent from
Lava, the eldest son of Rama.

The ancient dynasty of Mewar has fallen from its high estate, but the history of its rise is
lost in the mists of grey antiquity.

"We can trace the losses of Mewar, but with difficulty her acquisitions.... She was an old-established
dynasty when all the other States were in embryo." Long before Richard of the Lion-heart fared
to Palestine to wrest the Holy City from the infidel, "a hundred kings, its (Mewar's) allies
and dependants, had their thrones raised in Chitor," to defend it against the sword of the
Mohammedan; while overhead floated the banner displaying the golden sun of Mewar on a crimson
field.

Some centuries later the Crusaders brought to Europe from the plains of Palestine the novel
device of armorial bearings.

Chitor itself appears to have been in possession of the Mori princes until, in A.D. 728, it
was taken by Bappa, who, though of royal race, was brought up in obscurity by the Bhils as
an attendant on the sacred kine. This shepherd prince, ancestor of the present Rana of Mewar,
became a national hero, and many legends are still current concerning him and his romantic
deeds. The story of his "amazing marriage," by which he succeeded in wedding six hundred damsels
all at once, is one of the most curious. Bappa, while still a youth, was appealed to, one holiday,
by the frolicsome maidens of a neighbouring village, who, led by the daughter of the Solankini
chief of Nagda, in accordance with the custom upon this particular saint's day, had come out
to indulge in swinging, but who had forgotten to supply themselves with a swinging-rope. Bappa
agreed to get them one if they would play his game first. This the young ladies readily agreed
to do; whereupon, all joining hands, he danced with them a certain mystic number of times round
a sacred tree.

  "Regardless of their doom, the little victims played,"

and finally dispersed to their homes, entirely unconscious that they were all as securely married
to Bappa as though they had visited Gretna Green with him.

Some time afterwards, upon the engagement of the Solankini maiden to an eligible young man,
the soothsayer, to whom application had been made with regard to fixing a favourable and auspicious
wedding-day, discovered from certain lines in her hand that the girl was already married! Thus
the whole story came out, and no less than six hundred brides assumed the title of Mrs. Bappa.

He seems to have had a passion for matrimony, for when an old man he left his children and
his country, and carried his arms west to Khorassan, where he wedded new wives and had a numerous
offspring. He died at the age of a hundred!

From the days of the very much married Bappa, until the time of Samarsi, who was Prince of
Chitor in the thirteenth century, the city continued to flourish and increase in power and
importance. Samarsi, having married Pirtha, sister of Prithi Raj, the lord of Delhi, joined
his brother-in-law against Shabudin. For three days the battle raged, until the scale fell
finally in favour of Shabudin, and the combined forces of Delhi and Chitor were almost annihilated.
"Pirtha, on hearing of the loss of the battle, her husband slain, her brother captive, and
all the heroes of Delhi and Cheetore 'asleep on the banks of the Caggar in a wave of the steel,'
joined her lord through the flames."

From that time forward the history of Chitor is but a tale of sack and slaughter, relieved
in its murkiest days by flashes of brilliant heroism and self-sacrificing devotion while the
chivalrous Rajputs struggled vainly against the successive waves of the Mohammedan invasions,
which in a fierce flood for centuries swept over India, and deluged it with blood.

In the year 1275 Lakumsi became Rana of Chitor. His uncle Bheemsi had married Padmani, a fair
daughter of Ceylon, and her beauty was such that the fame of it came to the ears of Alla-o-din,
the Pathan Emperor.

He promptly attacked the fortress, but without success for a long period, until he agreed to
a compromise, declaring that if he could merely see the Lady Padmani in a mirror he would be
contented and raise the siege.

His request was granted, and, trusting to the honour of a Rajput, he entered the city unattended,
and was rewarded by a sight of this Eastern Helen reflected in a mirror. Desirous of showing
equal faith in a noble enemy, Bheemsi accompanied Alla back to his lines, but there he was
captured and held to ransom, Padmani being the price.

Word was now sent to the Emperor that Padmani would be delivered to him, and seven hundred
covered litters were prepared to convey her and her ladies to Delhi, but each litter was borne
by six armed bearers, and contained no "silver-bodied damsels with musky tresses," but only
steel-clad warriors, who, upon arrival in the Moslem camp, sprang from their concealment as
surprisingly as Pallas from the head of Zeus.

Alla-o-din was, however, not to be caught napping, and, being prepared for all contingencies,
a fierce combat took place, and the warriors of Chitor were hard put to it to stand their ground
until Bheemsi had escaped to the stronghold on a fleet horse. Then the devoted remnant retreated,
pursued to the very gates by their foes. The flower of Chitor had perished, but they had achieved
their object. This was called the "half sack" of Chitor.[1]

Fifteen years later, Alla-o-din once more attacked Chitor, and this time the assaults were
so deadly that the garrison was decimated and utter annihilation stared the survivors in the
face. Then to the Rana appeared the guardian goddess of the city, who warned him that "if twelve
who wear the diadem bleed not for Chitor, the land will pass from the line." Now the prince
had twelve sons, and, in obedience to the goddess and in hope of eventually saving their dynasty,
eleven of them cheerfully headed sorties on eleven following days, and were slain, until only
Ajeysi, the youngest, was left alive. Then the Kana prepared for the end. He sent the boy Ajeysi
with a small band by a secret way, and he escaped to Kailwarra, so that the royal race of Chitor
should not become extinct. Then the women of the city, with the noble Padmani at their head,
accepted the Johur; "the funeral pyre being lighted within the great subterranean retreat,"
they steadfastly marched into the living grave rather than yield themselves to the will of
the conqueror. All being now ready for the last act of the hideous drama, the Rana caused the
gates to be opened, and with his valiant remnant of an army fell upon the foe only to perish
to a man, and then, and not till then, did the victorious Alla set foot of a conqueror within
Chitor, where now no living thing remained to stay him from razing her deserted temples to
the ground. The palace of Padmani alone was spared in this, the first "saka" of Chitor.[2]

The wrecked stronghold remained an appanage of the Mogul until Hamir, who, though not the direct
heir of Ajeysi, had gained the chieftainship through his valour, and who, having married a
ward of the Hindu governor of Chitor, by her help regained possession of the fortress.

Defeating the Emperor Mahmoud, Hamir entered Chitor in triumph, and once again the standard
of the Sun floated over its blood-stained rocks. The Emperor Mahmoud himself was led captive
into Chitor, and kept prisoner there for three months until he regained his liberty by surrendering
Ajmere, Rinthumbore, Nagore, and Sooe Sopoor, with fifty lacs of rupees and a hundred elephants.
By this victory Hamir became the sole Hindu prince of power in India; and the ancestors of
the present lords of Marwar and Jaipur brought their levies and paid homage, together with
the chiefs of Boondi, Abu, and Gwalior.

Then ensued for Chitor a period of splendid prosperity, during which rose many noble buildings,
amongst the ruins of which the great Tower of Victory still soars supreme. This splendid monument[3]
was raised to commemorate the victory gained by Koombho over Mahmoud, King of Malwa, and the
Prince of Guzzerat, who in A.D. 1440 had formed a league against Chitor. The Rana met them
at the head of 100,000 troops and 1400 elephants, and overthrew them, and the commemorative
tower was begun in 1451 and finished in ten years.

The State of Mewar reached the zenith of her glory in 1509, when 80,000 horse, seven rajas
of the highest rank, nine raos, and 104 chiefs bearing titles of rawul or sawut, with 500 elephants,
followed Rana Sanga of Chitor into the field.

The Mogul Baber, who captured Delhi in 1527, was yet unwilling to face the ordeal of battle
with the warlike Rajputs, but in the following year Sanga marched against him at the head of
the princes of Rajast'han. A terrible battle ensued, which long inclined in favour of the Rajputs,
until, through the treachery of a Tuar chief, they were defeated, and the star of Mewar began
to decline, although so severe had been the struggle that Baber dared not follow up his victory.

In 1533 Chitor suffered her second "saka" at the hands of Buhadoor or Bajazet, Sultan of Guzzerat,
who, after a grim struggle, obtained a footing at the "Beeka" rock, and, springing a mine there,
blew up 45 cubits of rampart and killed the Prince of the Haras, with five hundred of his kin.
Then the Queen-Mother, Jowahir Bae, clad in armour, headed a sally, and was slain before the
eyes of all.

The entrance to the city being forced, the heir of the Sesodias, the infant Oodi Singh, son
of Sanga, was placed in safety, while Bagh-ji, Prince of Deola, assuming royalty, prepared
to die, for Chitor could only be retained by the Rajput princes while guarded by royalty.

The horrible Johur was decreed, and 13,000 women, headed by Kurnavati, the mother of Oodi Singh,[4]
marched to death and honour through the "Gau Mukh," or entrance to the subterranean tomb; while
the city gates were thrown open, and the defenders sallied forth. "Every clan lost its chief,"
and 32,000 Rajputs were slain during the siege and storm.

Now Kurnavati had bound Hamayoun, the son of Baber, to her cause by a curious ceremony: she
having sent him the Rakhi (bracelet), and he having bestowed on her the Katchli (corselet),
he was bound, in consequence of this bond, to assist the lady in any time of need. Too late
to save Chitor, he retook it, and restored Bikramajit to the throne; but the guardian goddess
had turned her face from the doomed city, and its final fall was at hand. The Emperor Akbar,
having laid almost all India at his feet, determined to bring the proud princes of Rajputana
into subjection. He attacked Chitor, but was foiled by the masculine courage of the Rana's
concubine queen.

Again, in 1568, the Emperor Akbar attacked, and this time he found the fated city in evil case,
for Oodi Singh,[5] the Rana, for whom in infancy his nurse had sacrificed her own child, was
a degenerate son of his race. He left Chitor to be defended by his lieutenants Jeimul and Putta.

In the first "saka" by Alla, twelve crowned heads defended the "crimson banner" to the death.
In the second, when conquest, at the hand of Bahadur, came from the south, the chieftain of
Deola, a noble scion of Mewar, claimed the crown of glory and of martyrdom. But on this, the
third and greatest struggle, no royal victim appeared to appease the Cybele of Chitor and win
her to retain its battlements as her coronet.

When Jeimul fell at the Gate of the Sun, the command devolved upon Putta of Kailwa, a lad of
sixteen. His mother commanded him to don "the saffron robe," then, with him and his young bride,
she fell full armed upon the foe, and the heroic trio died before the eyes of the war-worn
garrison.

Once more was the Johur commanded, while 8000 Rajputs ate the last "beera" together, and put
on their saffron robes. The gates were thrown open, "and few survived to stain the yellow mantle
by inglorious surrender."

Thus in the blood-red cloud of battle sank for ever the Sun of Chitor; for from this, the third
and last "saka," the ruined city never rose.

The top of the long ascent being reached, the last gate, the Hathi Pol, is passed, and the
wayfarer finds himself in the midst of the great dead city, which lies in ruins for three miles
along the bastioned brow of the mountain.

Just beyond the first group of stately ruins, we came on the building which was probably the
palace built by Lakha Rana in 1373. Here we sat and rested until the elephant, bearing the
ladies and the lunch, stalked sedately round the jutting angle of a decayed fort, and then
we wended our way along a road lined with many a half-fallen temple, until we reached the ancient
palace where, six hundred years ago, dwelt the ill-starred Padmani, whose loveliness brought
such woe upon Chitor. Here, in a cool chamber overlooking the tank, upon the brink of which
the palace stands, we lunched; afterwards threading our way among the fallen fragments of many
a stately shrine and palace towards the high point on which the great Jain Tower of Fame rears
its deeply-sculptured shaft into the sky.

For a thousand years the innumerable stone gods which encircle the tower in endless profusion
have watched with sightless eyes over the city. Grey already with age were they when they saw,
raised in pristine beauty, the shattered domes and broken columns which now lie prone in the
brushwood far beneath their feet. What ghastly scenes those stony faces have surveyed, when,
swept by the scathing steel, the city has run red with blood, and her defenders have fallen
to the last man. One crowning horror, though, they have been always spared, for no maid or
matron of Chitor ever deigned to bow her neck beneath the yoke of the Mogul, but rather dared
to face a fiery death in the bowels of the great cavern beneath the city than yield her honour
to the conqueror.

The Tower of Fame is being repaired by the present Rana, under the superintendence of our host
and a party of native workmen. Masons and most skilful carvers in stone were busily engaged
in the restoration of parts that had fallen into dangerous decay--an extremely flimsy-looking
scaffolding, made apparently of light bamboos, tied together in wisps, and forming a fragile-looking
ramp, wound spirally up the outside of the tower. My host seemed to consider it a perfectly
safe means of ascent, and as the workmen did not appear to slip off in any appreciable numbers
I felt constrained to go up. I should like to have done it on all fours! The climb was well
worth undertaking, as it enabled one to inspect the astonishing and finely-carved figures which
encrust the whole exterior of the column.

From the Tower of Fame we made our way to the other great landmark of Chitor--the Tower of Victory.

Passing and examining en route many elaborately-carved temples, whose domes rose amid the strangling
masses of desert tree and shrub, we came to the base of the red tower, whose shaft, four-square
and in perfect preservation, has, with its more venerable brother of Fame, watched for so many
centuries over the fallen fortress of Chitor.

Not far away, the rocky wall on which the city stands is shattered into a gloomy chasm, half-hidden
in rank vegetation, which, clinging with knotted root to ledge and crevice, hangs darkly over
a stagnant pool. Here was the awful portal, "the Gau Mukh," or "cow's mouth," by which, when
all was lost to Chitor save honour, her women entered the subterranean cavern while the fuel
was heaped high, and an honourable death by suffocation awaited them.

The burning Indian day was over, and the sun blazed red in the west, as we mounted our elephant
and paced along the road towards the Hathi Pol. Darker grew the ghostly domes and shattered
battlements against a golden sky, and the swift southern night fell, dark yet luminous, as
we turned down the hill and left the dead city, splendid in its loneliness and isolation, asleep
within its crumbling walls.

Our dinner-table was set out on the platform of the station at Chitorgarh, and our bedrooms
were close by, our host and hostess sleeping in the "special" by which they were to return
to Udaipur in the morning, while we slept in a siding, ready to be coupled up to the early
train from Bombay.

Late into the warm and balmy night we paced the platform; for there seemed to be always something
still to say, and we found it hard to part from our charming friends; realising, too, that
this was the end of our holiday, and that before us lay merely the toil and bustle of a return
to commonplace, everyday life. At last, though, the final fag-end of a cheroot was thrown away,
the last hand-grips given, and the parting came.

There is little more to say.

All Thursday we rushed through the wide landscape; saw the parched plains stretch far into
the dusty horizon; saw the lean men and leaner cattle, to whom the grim spectre of famine is
already foreshadowed; flew past populous villages and creaking water-wheels, noting every phase
of a scene now familiar, yet always delightful.

Late in the evening we changed at Baroda, and dawn next morning saw us speeding across the
swamps and inlets, which gave place ere long to the palm groves and clustering houses which
marked the farther limits of the suburbs of Bombay.

We found the heat--damp and oppressive--very trying after the drier air of Rajputana, and the
Taj Mahal Hotel below our expectations in all respects save price. It is undoubtedly better
than most Indian hotels, but yet it is not good!

Bombay is chiefly connected in our minds with the inevitable fuss and worry of packing and
departure.

As we left the Taj Mahal Hotel, in a conveyance piled high with miscellaneous baggage, we saw
the last of our faithful and indispensable Sabz Ali, as he hurriedly quitted the hostelry in
our wake, fearful lest undue delay should jeopardise the possession of the spoils he was carrying
off, wrapped in bulging bundles of goodly size.

Jane and I were sorrier, I think, to part with him than he with us. After all, we were but
troublesome charges, for whose well-being he had to answer to "General 'Oon Sahib,"--charges
who had not been quite so lavish with their incalculable riches as they should have been, and
who doled out rupees, and even annas, with a sorely grudging hand; still I think Sabz Ali,
as he made his way to the station, with many rupees lining his inmost garments, and a flaming
"chit" carefully stowed away, felt a certain regret at parting from the "sahibs," who had really
shown a very fine appreciation of his merit, and were sending him back with much honour to
his own country.

Late in the afternoon, as the spires and roofs of the city stood dark against the sky, and
the many steamers and native dhows showed black upon a flood of liquid gold, the Persia got
under way, and we slowly left the anchorage, steaming out into the fading light.

We stood long, leaning over the bulwarks and watching the lights of Bombay, at first so distinct,
melt gradually into a line of tiny stars as the gulf widened that separated us from the land
where we had spent so many happy days.

I wonder if we shall ever revisit it? An
    account of the above incident is given somewhat differently by Maurice
    in his Modern History of Hindostan (1803), who also relates that
    Akbar used the same trick to enter Rhotas in Behar, after being long
    baffled by the apparent impregnability of that fortress.

[2] The Jain Tower of Fame was also left standing, it dates from about
    A.D. 900.

[3] It is also attributed to Lakha Rana, A.D. 1373.

[4] And sister of the Rahtore queen, Jowahir Bae.

[5] The infant Oodi Singh being threatened with death by conspirators, his
    Rajputni nurse hid him in a fruit-basket, and, covering it with leaves,
    had it conveyed out of the fort, substituting her own child just as
    Bimbir, the usurper, entered the room and asked for the prince. Her
    pallid lips refused to utter sound, but she pointed to the cradle and
    saw the swift steel plunged into the heart of her child.

[6] "Henry Ryecroft"

APPENDIX I

BIG GAME LICENSE No. I, Price Rs. 60 (sixty only).

This license will remain in force from the 15th of March 190  to the 15th November 190, and
is subject to the Kashmir Stata Game Laws; it permits the Licensee to shoot the undermentioned
game in the Districts and Nullahs open to sportsmen, and, subject to Rules 8 and 9 of these
Laws, small game between the above dates.

----------------------+---------------+--------------+---------+---------
                      | No. permitted | No. actually | Size of |District.
  Name of Animal.     | to be         | shot.        | heads.  |
                      | shot.         |              |         |
----------------------+---------------+--------------+---------+---------
Markhor of any variety|      2        |              |         |
Ibex                  |      4        |              |         |
Ovis Hodgsoni (Ammon) |      1        |              |         |
Ovis Vignei (Sharpu)  |      4        |              |         |
Ovis Nahura (Burhal)  |      6        |              |         |
Thibetan Antelope     |      6        |              |         |
  Do. Gazelle         |      1        |              |         |
Kashmir Stag          |      2        |              |         |
Serow                 |      1        |              |         |
Brown Bears           |      2        |              |         |
Tehr                  |      6        |              |         |
Goral                 |      6        |              |         |
Pigs, Black Bears and |  No limit.    |              |         |
  Leopards            |               |              |         |
----------------------+---------------+--------------+---------+---------

Name of Licensee Address Signature of Licensee on returning License

N.B.--This portion of the License to be returned to the Secretary, Game Preservation Department.

-------------------------------------------------------------------------
                      NAME OF SHIKARIES, &c., EMPLOYED
------+-------+--------+-------+-----------------------------------------
      |Name of|        |Nature |    Place of Residence.    |
Serial|Shikari|Father's|  of   +---------+--------+----------+ REMARKS.
 No.  |  or   |  Name. |employ-| Village | Tehail | District |
      |Coolie.|        | ment. |         |        |          |
------+-------+--------+-------+---------+--------+----------+-----------
      |       |        |       |         |        |          |
      |       |        |       |         |        |          |
------+-------+--------+-------+---------+--------+----------+-----------

This License does not permit the Licensee to shoot in any of the closed tracts or preserves
mentioned in Rules 2 and 10, Kashmir State Game Laws, nor in the Gilgit district, nor in the
Astor or Kaj-nag districts, without the special permit laid down under Rule 2.

Dated  (Sd.) AMAR SINGH, GENERAL, RAJA, The  Vice-President of Council, Jammu and Kashmir State.

I certify that a copy of Kashmir State Game Laws, 190, has been issued herewith,

Signature of Official granting License 

NOTE--This License will be shown on demand and is not transferable. A fee of Re. 1 will be
charged for a duplicate copy.

APPENDIX II

From the earliest times the Kashmiris have been objects of contempt and derision, whilst the
women have been--perhaps unduly--lauded for their looks and general excellence.

The Kashmiris themselves are of opinion that "once upon a time" they were an honourable and
valiant folk, brought gradually to their present condition by foreign oppression.

To a certain extent this is probably true, but, according to the Rajatarangini Kulan, they
were noted for dishonesty and cunning long before the evil days of conquest and adversity.
Bernier speaks well of the men, calling them witty and industrious. Doubtless the Kashmiri
character, originally none too good, was ruined during the long years of cruelty and injustice
to which he was subjected by the Tartars, Afghans, and Sikhs, who, from the day when Akbar
put him into women's clothes, treated him as something lower than a brute.

Forster, writing in 1783, abuses the Kashmiri, whom he stigmatises as "endowed with unwearied
patience in the pursuit of gain." He speaks of the vile treatment to which he was subjected
by his then rulers the Pathans, observing that Afghans usually addressed Kashmiris by striking
them with a hatchet, but, he concludes, "I even judged them worthy of their adverse fortune."

Elphinstone (1839) is of opinion that "the men are excessively addicted to pleasure, and are
notorious all over the East for falsehood and cunning;" and again, "The Cashmerians are of
no account as soldiers."

"Many fowls in a yard defile it, and many Kashmiri in a country ruin it," says the proverb.
Lawrence goes very fully into the Kashmiri character, and dwells upon its few good points,
giving him credit for great artistic feeling, quick wit, ready repartee, and freedom from crime
against the person. He considers the last merit, though, to be due to cowardice and the state
of espionage which exists in every village!

I was told (but perhaps by a prejudiced person) of a Kashmiri who, during the great flood of
1903, he being safely on the shore, saw his brother being swept down the boiling river, clinging
to his rapidly disintegrating roof. The following painful conversation ensued:--

"Whither sailest thou, oh brother, perched upon the birch bark of thine ancestral roof?"

"Ah! brother dear. Save me quick! I drown!"

"Truly that can I; but say, what recompense wilt thou give me?"

"All I have in the world, brother--two lovely rupees."

"Tut, tut, little one; thou takest me for a fool. Two rupees, forsooth, for five perchance
I will deign to save thy worthless life."

"Three, then, three, carissimo--'tis all I have--and make haste, for I feel my timbers parting,
and I know not how to swim."

"Farewell, oh, dearest brother! I could not possibly think of taking so much trouble for three
rupees, especially as, now I come to think of it, I can borrow a singhara pole, and, in due
time, will prod for thy corpse in the Wular! Mind thou wrappest the lucre snugly in thy cummerbund,
that it be not lost--farewell, little brother!"

While the gentlemen of the Happy Valley have been lashed by the tongue and pen of every traveller,
the ladies, on the contrary, have been rather overrated.

In all communities where the men are invertebrate the women become the real heads of the family,
doing not only most of the actual work, but also taking the dominant position in affairs generally.
This I have observed strikingly in the case of the three "slackest" male races I know--the
Fantis of the Gold Coast, the Kashmiri, and the crofters of the West Highlands.

Opinion is divided on the question of female loveliness in Kashmir.

Marco Polo (who probably only got his ideas of "Kesmur" from hearsay) echoed the prevalent
opinion by saying, "The women although dark are very comely" (ch. xxvii.). Bernier is enthusiastic:
"Les femmes surtout y sont très-belles," and hints at their popularity among the Moguls.

Moorcroft, Vigne, and others swelled the laudatory chorus until Forster, "having been prepossessed
with an opinion of their charms, suffered a sensible disappointment," and even was so rude
as to criticise the ladies' legs, which he considered thick!

Lawrence saw "thousands of women in the villages, and could not remember, save one or two exceptions,
ever seeing a really beautiful face;" but the heaviest blow was dealt them by Jacquemont, who,
as a gay Frenchman, should have been an excellent judge: "Je n'avais jamais vu auparavant d'aussi
affreuses sorcières!"

APPENDIX III

I had hoped to have given, through the kindness of Colonel Ward, a full list of the birds of
Kashmir. Up to the time of going to press, however, the complete list has not been made out.
A very large proportion, however, has been published in the Journal of the Bombay Nat. Hist.
Society. I would refer those desirous of a knowledge of the birds of Kashmir to the above Journal
for 23rd April and 20th Sept. 1906, and 15th Feb. 1907. Also to Hume and Henderson's Lahore
to Yarkand, and to Le Mesurier's Game, Shore, and Water Birds of India, to which I am indebted
for the following:--

"In Kashmir, out of 116 genera of land birds, 34 have a wide range, 32 are characteristic of
the Palar Arctic, 29 of the Indian, and 21 of the Himalo-Chinese sub-region. Only one species
is peculiar to Kashmir, a very normal bullfinch (pyrula)."

The flora, which is most interesting, has yet (as far as I know) to be treated independently
of the neighbouring regions. Royle is scientific but antiquated, and I know of no better list
than that given by Lawrence in his Valley of Kashmir.

APPENDIX IV

It may interest any one intending a trip to Kashmir to see a note of reasonable expenses as
incurred by two people during a nine-month absence from England. Therefore I append a précis
of ours.

It is to be remembered that a saving might be effected in many particulars by any one knowing
something of the country. We had to buy our experience. Fully £10 or £12 could be saved in
wages, as at first we had a fighting tail like "Ta Phairson" of "four-and-twenty men and five-and-thirty
pipers"--and pipers have to be paid! We also hired tents when we did not really require them.
Against these outgoings, however, it should be borne in mind that, thanks to the kindness of
friends, we paid a merely nominal rent for a "State" hut at Gulmarg. At Abbotabad, Jaipur,
and Udaipur, also, we had no hotel bills to meet.

PRÉCIS OF EXPENSES--TWO PERSONS

LONDON TO KARACHI (25 Days)
                                                   £   s.  d.  £   s.  d.
Half-Return fares, 1st class, London to Trieste,
  and thence by Austrian Lloyd (unaccelerated)    60   0   0
Hotels, sleeping-car, gratuities, wine bills, &c. 16  15   0
Baggage expenses                                   8  15   7
                                                  ----------  85  10   7

BOMBAY TO LONDON (25 Days)
Share of fares                                    60   0   0
Hotel expenses and sundries, as before            10   6   8
Baggage expenses, dock dues, &c.                  17  11   4
                                                  ----------  87  18   0

KARACHI TO SRINAGAR (16 Days)
Rail and baggage expenses to Pindi                12   6   8
Landau and two ekkas to Srinagar, inclusive of
   gratuities, tolls, &c.                         10  10   8
Hotels, Dàk bungalows, &c.                        13  18   9
Duty on firearms (repayable on leaving)            1  16   8
Resais, waterproof for luggage, kettles, &c.       1  19   3
Servant's fare to Karachi, wages, &c.              2  12   8
                                                  ----------  43   4   8
                                                            -------------
                            Carry forward                  216  13   3

EXPENSES IN KASHMIR (6 Months)
                                                   £   s.  d.  £   s.  d.
            Brought forward                                216  13   3

Food, wine, washing, cigars, &c.                  72   7   3
Wages, inclusive of various clothes               42   9   9
Amusements, golf and tennis subscriptions, &c.    11   7   2
Hire of boats, tents and equipment                17   6   5
Transport coolies and ponies                      33  14  11
Hire of hut at Gulmarg                             5   6   8
Sundry furniture, cooking gear, yakdans, &c.       9   0   8
                                                 ----------- 191  12  10

BARAMULA TO BOMBAY (1 Month)

Landau and four ekkas, with gratuities and tolls. 13  14   0
Dâk bungalows, hotels, &c.                        18   5   8
Wages, inclusive of gratuities                     6  14   0
Rail, Pindi to Bombay (viâ Udaipur)             16  17   0
Baggage                                            5   2   8
Hire of carriages, &c.                             1   4  11
                                                  ----------  61  18   3
Loss by exchange on cheques.                                   5  19   7
                                                            ------------
                                      Total                  476   3  11
                                                            ============

INDEX AND NOTES

ABBOTABAD, A frontier station garrisoned by a mobile force of Gurkhas and
  Royal Artillery, whence any descent from the Black Mountain or Chilas
  country can be checked. Named after Lieutenant Abbot, who reduced the
  neighbourhood to order in 1845-48.
Aden, Occupying a warm corner just outside the straits of Babol-Mandeb;
  was the first addition made to the British dominions in the reign of
  Queen Victoria, having been taken from the Arabs in 1839.
Agates,
Agra, Rose to importance under the Moguls, becoming their seat of
  government after Akbar quitted the city he had built, Fatehpur-Sighri,
  until Aurungzeb removed the seat of government to Delhi.
Akbar, The third, and in many ways the greatest, of the six "Great Mogul"
  Emperors of India. A warrior first, he consolidated his conquests with
  the genius of an enlightened statesman.
Alsu, A small village on the north-west shore of the Wular Lake.
Amar Singh (General Raja Sir Amar Singh, K.C.S.I.), Brother of His
  Highness Sir Pratab Singh, G.C.S.I., Maharaja of Jammu and Kashmir; is
  Vice-President of the States Council and owner of much land in Kashmir,
  the prosperity of which he has done much to promote.
Ambér, The ancient capital of Jaipur; was built in the eleventh century,
  its Rajput rulers being the powerful allies of Chitor during her
  struggles against the Mohammedan invasion. The Palace was built by Raja
  Maun, circa 1600, in the days of Akbar, whose cousin he was by
  marriage ( comp. ). Ambér was deserted in 1728 by Jey Singh for his
  new city of Jaipur.
Amethyst, This stone should be much worn in Scotland, particularly on New
  Year's Day, it having been (according to the Greek derivation of the
  name) an antidote to drunkenness!
Amira Kadal, The highest of the seven bridges at Srinagar; a fine modern
  structure, replacing that built by Amir Khan Jawan Sher, the Pathan, who
  also built Sher Garhi.
Anda, Egg.
Anna, the sixteenth part of a rupee, value one penny.
Apharwat, One of the Pir Panjal range, which rises above Gulmarg, height
  14,500 feet.
Aru, A small village, beautifully situated about seven miles above Pahlgam.
Asti, "Go slow."
Astor, A district on the main route from Kashmir to Gilgit, the village is
  about ninety-two miles from Bandipur. Two passes (the Rajdiangan, or
  Tragbal, 11,800 feet, and the Boorzil, 13,500 feet) have to be crossed.
  About ten passes are issued each season to sportsmen, markhor and ibex
  being the game.
Atchibal, A village seven miles from Islamabad, where many springs burst
  out from the rocks. Atchibal was a favourite pleasure-garden of the
  Mogul Emperors, the remains of which still exist.
Aurungzeb, The last of the six "Great Moguls"; deposed and imprisoned his
  predecessor Shah Jehan in 1658, and reigned until 1707. Bigoted and
  intolerant, he shares with Sikander the odium of having destroyed many
  of the ancient Hindu temples of Kashmir.
Avantipura, The modern village is near the extensive ruins named after
  King Avanti Verma, which formed once the capital of Kashmir.

Bahamarishi, (Baba-pam-Rishi=Father Smoothbeard.) A village some three
  miles below Gulmarg; the ziarat is named after a rishi, or ascetic, of
  the sixteenth century.
Baloo, (Kashmiri, Harpat) "Rara avis in terras, nigroque similima
  cignis." Anglicè, a bear.
Bandipur, An important village on the north shore of the Wular Lake, the
  starting-point for Gilgit, &c. Oddly enough, Bandipur is not marked on
  the Ordnance Map.
Bandobast, A bargain or arrangement.
Bappa, An eighth-century Rajput hero, and ancestor of the present chiefs
  of Mewar; appears to have had strong Mormon proclivities.
Baramula, The third town in Kashmir, having some 900 houses, is built on
  the Jhelum at its outflow from the Kashmir Valley: it is also built on
  the west focus of seismic disturbance in Kashmir, and was destroyed by
  an earthquake in 1885, when 3000 Baramulans were killed. We were unaware
  of these interesting facts on the morning of April 4! The "Palms of
  Baramoule," which Moore sang of, are like snakes in Iceland--they do
  not exist.
Bara singh, The Kashmir stag.
Bawan,
Beera,
Bejbehara, The ancient Vijayasvara, a picturesque village and bridge about
  four miles below Islamabad.
Bernier, F., a Frenchman attached to the court of Aurungzeb as medical
  adviser; wrote Voyage à Kachemire.
Bhanyar,
Bheostie, The Indian Aquarius--the water-bearer.
Bhils,
Birch, (Kashmiri, Burza) The bark used in making the paper for which
  Kashmir was noted, also for roofing, it being strong and impervious to
  water.
Blue pine, Pinus Excelsa, (Kashmiri, Yar.)
Bombay,
Books on Kashmir:(1) Bernier, Voyage à Kachemire (Utrecht, 1724);
  (2) Forster's (G) Journey from Bengal to England (London, 1798);
  (3) Moorcroft, Travels in Kashmir, &c. edited by Wilson, 1841;
  (4) Jacquomont (V), Voyage dans l'Inde (Paris, 1841);
  (5) Vigne (G. T.), Travels in Kashmir, &c., 1844;
  (6) Hugel's Travels, 1845;
  (7) Drew, Jummoo and, Ktishmir Territories; and
  (8) Lawrence's Valley of Kashmir 1895.
Budmash, A scoundrel.
Bund, An embankment or dyke to bank a river.
Burra, Big, or great.

Carnelian, "Flesh-stone"--for origin read Marryat's Pacha of Many Tales
Chakhoti,
Chandni Chowk,
Chaplies,
Chappar, Paddle with heart-shaped blade.
Chatris, The cenotaphs of the Maharanas of Mewar; they stand in a walled
  enclosure between Udaipur and the railway station.
Chonar, Plaianus Orientals or Oriental plane. This magnificent tree is
  supposed to have been introduced into Kashmir by the Mogul Emperors. It
  grows to a great size, one measured by Lawrence being sixty-three feet
  five inches in circumference at five feet above the ground! There is a
  very fair specimen in Kew Gardens, between the pond and the "herbaceous
  border."
Chilas,
Chit, A note or letter, and also a character or recommendation, Every man
  collects something, from pictures to tram tickets--the native collects
  "chits." Like other collectors he will beg, borrow, or steal to improve
  his store, and life is made a burden by the perpetual writing and
  reading of these mendacious documents.
Chitor,
Chittagul Nullah, The next nullah to the south-west of the Wangat. The
  village of Wangat is wrongly placed in it, according to the Ordnance Map.
Chondawats, A Rajput clan.
Chota, Little, Chota Hazm = petit dejeúner or early breakfast.
Chowkidar, A functionary whose principal duty seems to be to snore in the
  verandah at night and scare other robbers away.
Chupatty, A flabby sort of scone.
Chuprassie,
Cockburn's Agency, The nearest approach to "Whiteley's" in Kashmir.

Dâk, Post. Dâk Bungalow=posting station.
Dal Lake, Dal means lake (in a plain), while nag is a mountain tarn.
Dandy, A sort of enclosed chair with four projecting arms, wherein pretty
  ladies are carried when it doesn't suit them to walk.
Degchies, Cooking utensils--best made of aluminium, owing to the unclean
  ways of native scullions.
Dekho, See, look!
Delhi, The capital of the Mogul Emperors, dating from 1638, when Shah
  Jehan commenced to build the great fort. The ancient city lies some
  miles to the south. Delhi was taken by General Lake in 1803.
Deodar, (Kashmiri, Diár.) Cedrus Lebani, var. Deodara. The most
  valuable tree in Kashmir, where it was formerly abundant. It is now
  chiefly found in the north-west districts, and it is carefully cherished
  by the "Jungly Sahib" and his myrmidons.
Dobie, The thing that ruins all your shirts and causes you to shatter the
  Third Commandment.
Domel, Village with Dâk Bungalow, at the confluence of the Jhelum and the
  Kishenganga.
Doolie,
Doras,
Dounga, "The boats of Kashmir are very long and narrow, and are rowed with
  paddles from the stern, which is a little elevated, to the centre; a
  tilt of mats is extended for the shelter of passengers or merchandize"
  (Forster); the mats are made of "pits" (reed mace), a swamp plant.
Drogmulla,
Dubgam, A village at junction of the Pohru with the Jhelum, about seven
  miles above Baramula.

EARTHQUAKE, An upsetting event of too frequent occurrence in Kashmir.
  Particularly severe visitations occurred in 1827 and 1885 (see
  Baramula).
Echo Lake, A small tarn on the top of Apharwat.
Ek, One. (Ek dam=immediately.)
Ekka,
Embroidery,
Erin Nullah,
Eshmakam, =Eysh Makám("the delightful halting-place") Above the village
  stands the shrine of Zyn-u-din, one of the four disciples of the Kashmir
  patron saint, Shah Nur-u-din.

FATERPUR-SIGHRI, Ferozepore Nullah, Floating Gardens,

GANESBAL, The boulder, red-stained and extremely sacred, which lies in the
  middle of the Lidar; bears some fancied likeness to Ganésh (the
  elephant-headed god).
Gangabal, A sacred lake, lying under the north glaciers of Haramok at the
  elevation of 12,000 feet. It is said to be a source of the Ganges(!)
  and is an object of pilgrimage
Ghari,
Ghari Habibullah,
Ghari Wallah, The Jehu of these parts.
Ghât,
Gold mohur,
Golf,
Gram,
Grass shoes,
Gujar, Is not a Kashmiri, being a member of the semi-nomad tribes which
  graze buffaloes and goats upon the hills. He speaks Parímu or Hindki.
Gulmarg, (The Rose Marg.) The most frequented resort of the English in
  Kashmir during July and August; stands some 8500 feet above the sea,
  wherefore some people find the air too rarefied. Gulmarg was first
  mentioned by Yusaf Khan in 1580.
Gunderbal, A village placed where the Sind River debouches into the plain.
  The starting-point for Leh and Thibet.
Gupkar, Town of Gopaditya(?). A wine-manufacturing suburb of Srinagar,
  overlooking the Dal.
Gurais, A large village on the Bandipur-Gilgit route, lying on the right
  bank of the Kishenganga, about forty-two miles from Bandipur.

HARAMOK, The predominating mountain (16,903 feet) of the valley, from
  almost every part of which his square-headed bulk is visible; hence the
  name, which means "all faces" or "all mouths." A legend holds that a
  vein of emerald lies near the summit, and that within view of this gem
  no snake can live
Harbagwan,
Hari Parbat, ("The Green Hill") So named on account of the gardens and
  vineyards which clothed its sides. Became the residence of Akbar, who
  built the wall round foot of hill in 1597. The fort on top was the work
  of the Pathan, Atta Mohamad Khan.
Haripur,
Harwan,
Hasrat Bal Mosque, (The Prophet's Hair.) Various fairs and festivals are
  held here, the principal one being held upon the day that the Prophet
  rode up to Heaven on his mule Al Barak (the Thunderer). This mule,
  by-the-bye, is one of the five favoured beasts which the Mohammedans
  believe destined to immortality; the others are (1) Abraham's Ram, (2)
  Balaam's Ass, (3) the one upon which Christ rode on Palm Sunday, and (4)
  the dog which guarded the seven sleepers.
Hassanabad Mosque, Built by Nur Jehan Begum (Nourmahal), and destroyed by
  the Sikhs.
Hassan Abdal, (Abdal=fanatic).
Hoopoe, Un-natural history of.

INSECTS, Of benign insects such as butterflies there are singularly few.
  Both mosquitoes and flies are very troublesome during the hot weather in
  the valley. Visits to native huts will probably lead to an introduction
  to other insects. In India ants become a nuisance: I met with a foraging
  party of extremely large and well-nourished ones as I entered my bath
  place one morning. I recognised them for the descendants--decadent
  somewhat--of the famous fellows who played Alberich to the Gold of
  Hindostan and regarding which Herodotus (commonly known as the Father of
  History, or of Lies, I forget which) asserted that they were of the
  bigness of foxes and ran with incredible swiftness. He evidently got
  this yarn from Pliny--

    "Indicae Formicae.
    Aurum ex cavernus egerunt terrae
    Ipsis autem color Fehum magnitudo Aegypti Luporum"
    (Lib. xi. ch. 31)--

  and passed it on to Sir J. Maundevil, who swallowed it greedily. "Theise
  pissmyres ben grete as houndes; so that no man dar come to the hilles,
  for the pissmyres wolde assaylen hem and devouren hem" (ch. xxx) For the
  wily method of catching the ants napping, together with other contes
  drolatiques, read Maundevil's Travels.
Iris, (Kashmiri, Krishm) Succeeds the tulip and precedes the rose as
  typical of Kashmirian Flora, is used as fodder, and the fibre makes
  ropes, which are, however, not durable.
Islamabad, (Or Anant Nag, the "Place of Countless Springs.") Is the second
  city in Kashmir, having about 9000 inhabitants; stands at the head of
  the navigable Jhelum, fifty miles by water and thirty-two by land above
  Srinagar.

Jade,
Jagganath,
Jain, A small sect founded by Mahavera, a contemporary of Gautama. The
  Jains were great temple-builders.
Jehangir,
Jeimal, With Putta, one of the national heroes of the Rajputs. They fell,
  while mere boys, in the heroic defence of Chitor against Akbar.
Jey Singh, (Sowar Jey Singh.) Succeeded to the throne of Ambér in 1699,
  founded Jaipur in 1728. He wrote the following, which I had not read
  when I visited his observatory at Jaipur "Let us devote ourselves at the
  altar of the King of Kings, hallowed be his name! In the book of the
  register of whose power the lofty orbs of Heaven are but a few leaves,
  and the stars, and that heavenly courser the sun, small pieces of money
  in the treasury of the Most High."
Jheel, A small lake, or pond.
Jhelum, (Kashmiri, Veth, Hindu, Vetasta, the ancient Hydaspes.)
  Rises at Vernag, becomes navigable at Kanbal, and is so for 120 miles,
  when it forms rapids below Baramula. Average breadth at Srinagar in
  December 210 feet, average depth 9 feet.
Johur,

Kaj-nag,
Kali, ("The Terrible.") Wife of Shiva or Mahadeva.
Kanbal,
Karachi,
Karewas, "Where the mountains cease to be steep, fan-like projections,
  with flat, arid tops, and bare of trees, run out towards the valley"
  (Lawrence)
Kashmir=Kashuf-mir (the country of Kashuf). Was ruled by Tartar princes
  from about 150-100 B.C. for several centuries; conquered after a year's
  struggle by Mahmoud of Guznee (1014-1015 A.D.). Invaded by Baber and
  Humayun, and finally conquered by latter in 1543, and formally annexed
  by Akbar in 1588. After the fall of Delhi (Nadir Shah) in 1739, Kashmir
  fell into the hands of Amirs of Cabul in 1753. It was captured by the
  Sikhs under Ranjit Singh in 1819, and, after the defeat of the Sikhs at
  the hands of the British, was handed over to Gulab Singh of Jammu for
  twenty-five lacs of rupees "Kailasa is the best place in the three
  worlds, Himalaya the best part of Kailasa, and Kashmir the best place in
  Himalaya" (Rajatarangini Kulan).
Kastoora, Merula Boulboul (the grey-winged ousel). Jane
  bought "Freddie" one day in Srinagar, and he has been our friend
  and companion ever since--being at this present (August 1907)
  in rude health.
Khansamah, A Cook.
Khubbar, News--usually untrustworthy.
Khud, A steep slope or precipice.
Khudstick, An alpenstock made of tough wood, usually of Cotoneaster
  baccillaris (lun); should be well tested before purchase, as life may
  depend on its strength.
Killanmarg, A wide sloping marg above Gulmarg, just above the pine forest
  on the slopes of Apharwat.
Kilta, Creel made of the pliant withes of the Wych Hazel, Parrotia
  Jacquemontiana (Chob-i-poh).
Kishenganga, A large affluent of the Jhelum which drains the Tilail Valley,
  passes Gurais, and joins the Jhelum below Muzafferabad.
Kitardaji, Forest house in the Machipura.
Kitmaghar, Bearer.
Kobala,
Kohinar,
Kolahoi, or Gwash Brari, 17,800 ft. The loftiest peak in Kashmir proper.
  It has not yet been ascended.
Koolan,
Kralpura,
Kulan, A peak of the Pir Panjal, at the head of the Ferozepore Nullah.
Kulgam, or Kuligam.
Kunis,
Kurnavati,
Kutab Minar,

Lacquer,
Lahore, Capital of the Punjab. An ancient and interesting city, which
  (like Agra and Delhi) only attained its zenith of prosperity in the days
  of Akbar.
Lakri, A stick (at Gulmarg also a golf-club).
Lalpura, A charming village in the Lolab.
Larch,
Lidar, Liddar, or Lambodri, Drains the Kolahoi district, and forms the
  first substantial affluent of the Jhelum, which it joins below Islamabad.
Lidarwat, A small Grujar village fifteen miles above Pahlgam, on the left
  bank of the river, about 10,000 ft. above sea-level.
Logue or Log, Folk.
Lumbadhar, The headman of a village.

Machipura, "The Place of Fish"--why, I cannot imagine! The district lying
  along the east foothills of the Kaj-nag.
Mahadeo, (Mahadeva or Shiva) A sacred mountain and object of pilgrimage,
  north of Srinagar, 13,500 feet high.
Maharaja of Jammu and Kashmir, H.H. Sir Pratab Singh, G.C.S.I., succeeded
  his father Ranbir Singh (who was third son of Gulah Singh) in 1885. The
  family is of the Rajput Dogras. "His kindness to all classes has won him
  the affection of his people" (Lawrence).
Maharana, H.H. the Maharana Dhiraj Sir Fateh Singh, G.C.S.I., of Udaipur,
  is head of the Rajput princes in point of blood, being descended from the
  Suryabansi, or Children of the Sun.
Mahseer,
Malingam,
Manji or Hanji, A Kashmiri water-thief or boatman.
Manserah,
Mar (snake) Canal. A dirty but most picturesque waterway between the Dal
  and the Anchar Lakes.
Marg,(Margh?) Persian for a garden abounding in plants.
Margam,
Martand, The principal temple in Kashmir--stands on a high karewa some few
  miles from Islamabad.
Metal-work,
Mewar,
Mogul, The Moguls were a warlike people of Central Asia, who, under Timur
  (Tamerlane) their chief, sacked Delhi in 1398. At the great battle of
  Panipat, in 1524, Baber the Mogul (direct descendant of Timur) defeated
  the Sultans of Delhi. He was the first of the six "Great" Moguls (the
  others being Humayun, Akbar, Jehangir, Shah Jehan, and Aurungzeb), who
  ruled India with unparalleled magnificence for 150 years.
Mulberry, (Morus sp. Kashmiri Tul) A very precious tree in Kashmir, on
  account of the silk industry. It grows to a great size, attaining a girth
  of 25 feet.
Murghi, A fowl.
Murree, A hill station and sanatorium, 37 miles from Rawal Pindi, on a
  hill 7500 feet above the sea. Its importance dates from 1850. Forster
  speaks of it as a small village in 1786.
Musafferabad, ("The Place of Victory") Built by Masufer Khan, Rajah of
  Chikri.
Mussick, Water-skin.

NAG, A mountain lake or tarn.
Nagas, Human-bodied, snake-tailed gods.
Nagmarg,
Nanga Parbat, A great mountain in the Chilas country, 26,620 feet high
  (the fourth in point of height in the world), Mommery and two guides were
  destroyed in 1895, probably by an avalanche, while attempting the ascent.
Nassim Bagh, ("The Garden of Delicious Breezes") A favourite spot in the
  days of the Mogul Emperors. Akbar planted 1200 chenars.
Neem tree.
Neve, Dr. A. He and his brother are surgeons to the Kashmir Medical
  Mission, where for many years they have carried on the somewhat
  thankless task of benefiting the natives.
Nishat Bagh, ("The Garden of Drink")
Nopura, A village on the Pohru.
Nourmahal, ("Light of the Palace"), or, more properly, Nur Jehan Begum
  ("Light of the World"), was the wife of Jehaugir, celebrated in Mooree's
  Lalla Rookh. Her life story was very curious. See Forster's Journey
  from Bengal to England, London, 1798.
Nullah, A valley or ravine.
Numdah,

ONTALA, Oodi Singh,

PADMANI, "The Lotus-lovely Lady."
Pagdandy, A short cut.
Pahlgam, "The Shepherd's Village," A Kashmiri summer resort for those who
  like quiet. It is 27 miles from Islamabad up the Lidar Valley, and is
  somewhat over 7000 feet above the sea.
Pampur, (Padma-pur, city of Vishnu, or Padmun-pur, "the place of beauty"),
  principally noted now for its Pampur roti or bread, a speciality of the
  place.
Pandrettan, or Pandrenthan, =Puranadhisthana, "the old capital." Was built
  in the time of Partha by his Prime Minister, Meru.
Parana Chauni,
Patan. "The City" or "Ferry," the ancient Sankarapura, Sankaravarma having
  built two temples there at the end of the eighth century.
Peechy, Afterwards, later, by-and-bye
Peri Mahal, "The Abode of the Fairies." Built on the hill above Gupkar by
  Prince Dara Shikoh, probably for astronomical purposes
Piasse, The onion.
Pice, See Rupee.
Pichola Lake,
Pir Panjab, Pir=Dogri for peak Pantzal, Kashmiri for ditto Pir also meant
  a saint, particularly one who lived in the pass in the days of Shah
  Jehan and Aurungzeb and who was interviewed by Bernier. The Pir Panjal
  was the route followed by the Moguls when coming to Kashmir, and, rough
  as it is, they sent elephants along it. The highest peak of the Pir
  Panjal is Tatakuti, 15,500 feet.
Pohru,
Poonch, A native state lying south-west of Kashmir, to which it is
  tributary. The Raja Buldeo Singh is cousin to the Maharajah of Kashmir.
Poplar. There are two varieties of Poplar in Kashmir, the Italian or
  Black Poplar, and the White, the latter attains a great size, one near
  Gurais measuring 127 feet in height and 14-1/2 feet in girth.
Porcelain,
Port Saïd,
Puttoo, Native cloth.

RAINAWARI,
Rajput, The brave and chivalrous inhabitants of Rajputana. Bernier,
  probably influenced by Mogul opinion, attributes much of their valour to
  opium, as the following curious extract shows "Ils sont grands preneurs
  d'opium, et je me suis quelque fois etonné de la quantité que je leur
  en voiois prendre; aussi ils s'y accoutûmerent dès la jeunesse; le jour
  d'une bataille ils ne s'oublient pas de doubler la dose; cette drogue
  les anime ou plutot les enyvre, et les rend insensibles an danger, de
  sorte quils se jettant dans le combat comma des bêtes furieuses, ne
  sachant ce que c'est de fuir ... c'est un plaisir de les voir ainsi avec
  leur fumée d'opium dans la tête s'entre embrasser quand on est prêt de
  combattre et se dire adieu les uns aux autres, comme gens qui sont
  resolus de mourir."--Vol. i. p. 54.
Ramble-tamble egg, Scrambled eggs.
Ram chikor, The great snow partridge (Tetragallus Himalayensis).
Rampur. A small village in the Jhelum Valley, and a village on the way
  into the Lolab viâ Kunis.
Rawal Pindi,
Rassad, "Field Allowance" or extra rations given to coolies when doing any
  mountain work or away from supplies.
Resai,
Roorkhee chair, An extremely comfortable and portable chair made by the
  R.E. at Roorkhee.
Rope bridge,
Rupee=one fifteenth of a sovereign, or 1s. and 4d.
  12 pice (or pies)= 4 paisa = 1 anna = 1 penny
  16 annas = 1 rupee.

SAAF kuro, "Make clean."
Saktawats, A Rapjut clan.
Sari, A woman's garment, usually brilliant in colour, blood-red and dark
  blue being favoured.
Sekwas,
Sellar,
Serow, Nemorhaidus bubalerius.
Sesodia, The ruling family of Udaipur, formerly known as Gehlote.
Shadipur, "The Place of Marriage"--probably with reference to the junction
  of the Sind and Jhelum rivers.
Shah Jehan, The greatest builder of the Mogul Emperors. Ruled from 1627 to
  1658, when he was deposed and imprisoned by Aurungzeb.
Shalimar,
Shalimar Bagh,
Shambrywa, One of the peaks of the Kaj-nag.
Shiah, A Mohammedan sect, usually much at variance with those of Sunni
  persuasion.
Shikara, A light sort of canoe.
Shikari, A necessary joint in the "fighting tail" of the sportive visitor
  to Kashmir. Usually a fraud, but, if not too proud, makes quite a good
  golf caddy.
Shisha Nag, "The Glassy or Leaden Lake."
Silver fir, Abies Webbiana (Kashmiri, Sungal). Grows to a great height,
  being known 110 feet high and 16 feet in girth.
Sind Desert,
Sind Valley,
Singhara, Meaning "horned nut," the water chestnut (Trapa bispinosa).
  An article of diet much prized by the Kashmiri.
Sogul,
Sonamarg, "The Golden Marg." A summer station high up the Sind Valley on
  the route to Leh and Ladak.
Sopor, =Sonapur, or the Golden City. A somewhat unclean little town of
  some 600 houses on the Jhelum, about eight miles by road and twelve by
  water above Baramula.
Spill Canal, Cut in 1904, after the Great Flood of 1903, to carry some of
  the river clear of Srinagar and ease the pressure on the bund.
Spruce, Picca, Morunda. (Kashmiri, Kachal.)
Srinagar, Surga Nagur, City of the Sun. Has a population of 120,000.
  Became capital in 960 A.D., when the ancient city of Pandrettan was burnt
  in the reign of Abimanyu. The city was called Kashmir until recently,
  Martand being called Sringar by Jacquemont.
Sultanpur,
Sumbal, Said to be the site of the ancient city Jayapura.
Sunt-i-kul = "Apple-tree Canal."

TAJ MAHAL, The magnificent tomb of Mumtez Mahal, favourite wife of Shah
  Jehan.
Takht-i-Suleiman, A steep isolated hill rising nearly 1000 feet above
  Srinagar, crowned by a temple which is built on the ruins of a very
  ancient edifice. The Takht or Throne of Solomon is, according to the
  legend, the place which Solomon occupied during his mythical visit to
  Kashmir.
Tangmarg, "The Open Marg". Is the village about 1500 foot below Gulmarg,
  which is the nearest point to Gulmarg attainable by wheeled conveyance.
Tattoo, A pony.
Tehsildhar, The functionary who has jurisdiction over a tehsil.
Temples, For full description read Lawrence (Valley of Kashmir, chap.
  vi.) Their ruined state is partly due to earthquakes, but probably still
  more to the iconoclastic activity of Sikandar (d. 1416) and Aurungzeb.
Tilail,
Tonga,
Topaz, Name derived from the Greek "to conjecture"--because no one knew
  whence they came!
Tower of Fame,
Tower of Victory,
Tragbal,
Tragam, A large village south-west of the Lolab, whence a route leads to
  Musafferabad.
Tret, A station at the foot of the Murree hills on the road to Rawal Pindi.
Trieste,
Tronkol,
Turquoise,

UDAIPUR, The capital of the ancient and powerful Rajput State of Mewar,
  founded by Oodi Singh after the fall of Chitor.
Uri,

VERNABOUG, Vernag,

WALNUT, A valuable tree in Kashmir, where its fruit and timber are both
  greatly esteemed; grows to a very large size, one in the Lolab having a
  girth of 18 feet 10 inches.
Wangat,
Wardwan, The mountainous district on the east of Kashmir.
Water buffalo, An ungainly and "sneevish" beast beloved of Gujars and
  nobody else.
Weights 2 lbs. (English)=1 seer. 40 seers = 1 maund.
Wood carving,
Wular, Means "cave". The largest lake in India, being 12-1/2 x 5 miles in
  average extent. In floods it covers much extra space.
Wych hazel, See Kilta.

YAKDAN,

ZIARAT, A Mohammedan shrine.
Zoji La, The pass at the head of the Sind Valley which is crossed on going
  to Leh, height 11,300 feet.