She walked down-town to her apartment from the Pennsylvania station end, though the natural
effect of fatigue was to quicken her pace, and though she was indubitably tired, she walked
slowly; slowly, and still more slowly. She found she dreaded going back to that apartment of
hers and shutting herself in for the night, alone.

She found two corners of white projecting from under her door. And when she'd unlocked and
opened it she stooped and picked them up, a visiting card and a folded bit of paper. She turned
the card over and gave a little half-suffocated cry.

It was Rodney's card and on it he'd written, "Sorry to have missed you. I'll come back at eight."

Her shaking fingers fumbled pitifully over the folds of the note, but she got it open at last.
It was from him too. It read:

     "DEAR ROSE:

     "This is hard luck. I suppose you're off for a week-end somewhere. I
     want very much to see you. When you come back and have leisure for
     me, will you call me up? I know how busy you are so I'll wait until
     I hear from you.

     "RODNEY."

Her heart felt like lead when she'd read it. Dazedly, a little giddily, she pulled her door
shut, went into her room and sat down.

He was in New York! He'd been to see her this afternoon--and left a card! And the note he'd
written after his second visit was what Howard West might have written, or any other quite
casual, slightly over-polite acquaintance. And it was from Rodney to her!

She couldn't see him if he felt like that; couldn't stand it to see him if he felt like that!
Bitterness, contempt, hatred, anything would be easier to bear than that. She was to call up
his hotel, was she? Well, she wouldn't!

And then suddenly she spread the note open again and read it once more. Turned it over and
scrutinized the reverse side of the paper, and uttered a little sobbing laugh. If he'd been
as cool, unmoved, self-possessed, as that note had tried to sound, would he have forgotten
to tell her at what hotel she was to call him up?

Then, with a gasp, she wondered how she could call him up. He'd think she knew where he was;
he'd wait; and after he'd waited a while, in default of word from her, wouldn't he take her
silence for an answer and go back to Chicago?

She clenched her hands at that and tried to think. Well, the obvious thing to do seemed to
be the only one. She must try one hotel after another until she found him. After all, there
probably weren't more than a dozen to choose among. It wouldn't be easy looking up numbers
with everything dancing before her eyes like this, but if she took the likeliest ones first
she mightn't have to go very far. And, indeed, at a third attempt she found him.

When the telephone girl switched her to the information desk, and the information clerk said,
"Mr. Rodney Aldrich? Just a moment," and then; "Mr. Aldrich is in fifteen naught five," the
dry contraction in her throat made it impossible for her to speak.

But the switchboard girl had evidently been listening in and plugged her through, because she
heard the throb of another ring, a click of a receiver and then--then Rodney's voice.

She couldn't answer his first "Hello," and he said it again, sharply, "Hello, what is it?"

And then suddenly her voice came back. A voice that startled her with its distinctness. "Hello,
Rodney," she said; "this is Rose."

There was a perfectly blank silence after that and, then the crisp voice of an operator somewhere--"Waiting?"

"Yes," she heard Rodney say, "get off the line." And then to her. "I came to see you this afternoon
and again to-night."

"Yes, I know," she said. "I just this minute got in. Can't you come back again now?"

How in the world, she had wondered, could she manage her voice like that! From the way it sounded
she might have been speaking to Alice Perosini; and yet her shaking hand could hardly hold
the receiver. She heard him say:

"It's pretty late, isn't it? I don't want to ... You'll be tired and ..."

"It's not too late for me," she said, "only you might come straight along before it gets any
later."

She managed to wait until she heard him say, "All right," before she hung up the receiver.
Then a big racking sob, not to be denied any longer, pounced on her and shook her.

CHAPTER IV

COULEUR-DE-ROSE

The fact that the length of time it would take a taxi to bring him down from his hotel to her
apartment was not enough to decide anything in, plan anything in, was no more than enough,
indeed, to give her a chance to stop crying and wash her face, was a saving factor in the situation.

In the back of her mind, as with a hairpin or two she righted her hair and decided, glancing
down over herself, against attempting to change even her tumbled blouse or her dusty boots,
was an echoing consciousness of something Galbraith had said that afternoon--"And you know
when your next big thing comes along you will do that too."

Without actually quoting those words to herself, she experienced a sudden confidence that was
almost serene. In a few minutes now, not more than five, probably--she hoped not more than
that--something incalculable, tremendous, was going to begin happening to her. A thing whose
issue would in all likelihood determine the course of her whole life. There might be a struggle,
a tempest, but she made no effort to foresee the nature of it. She just relaxed physical and
spiritual muscles and waited. Only she hoped she wouldn't have to wait long.

No--there was the bell.

It was altogether fortunate for Rose that she had attempted no preparation, because the situation
she found herself in when she'd opened the door for her husband, shaken hands with him, led
him into her sitting-room and asked him to sit down, was one that the wildest cast of her imagination
would never have suggested as a possible one for her and Rodney. And it lasted--recurred, at
least, whenever they were together--almost unaltered, for two whole days.

It was his manner, she felt sure, that had created it; and yet, so prompt and automatic had
been her response that she couldn't be sure, not for the first half-hour or so, anyway, that
he wasn't attributing it to her. It wasn't so much the first words he said, when, opening her
door, she saw him standing in the hallway, as it was his attitude; his rather formal attitude;
the way he held his hat; the fact--this was absurd, of course, but she reconstructed the memory
very clearly afterward--that his clothes were freshly pressed. It was the slightly anxious,
very determined attitude of an estimable and rather shy young man making his first call on
a young lady, on whom he is desperately desirous of making a favorable impression.

What he said was something not very coherent about being very glad and its being very good
of her, and almost simultaneously she gasped out that she was glad, and wouldn't he come in.
She held out her hand to him, politely, and he, compensating for an imperceptible hesitation
with a kind of clumsy haste, took it and released it almost as hastily. She showed him where
to hang his coat and hat, conducted him into her sitting-room and invited him to sit down.
And there they were.

And he was Rodney, and she was Rose! It was like an absurd dream.

For a while she talked desperately, under the same sort of delirious conviction one has in
dreams that if he desists one moment from some grotesquely futile form of activity a cosmic
disaster will instantly take place. A moment of silence between them would be, she felt, something
unthinkably terrible. It was not a fear of what might emerge from such a silence, the sudden
rending of veils and the confrontation of two realities; it was a dread, purely, of the silence
itself. But the feeling did not last very long.

"Won't you smoke?" she asked suddenly; and hurried on when he hesitated, "I don't do it myself,
but most of my friends do, and I keep the things." From a drawer in her writing-desk she produced
a tin box of cigarettes. "They're your kind--unless you've changed," she commented, and went
over to the mantel shelf for an ash-tray and a match-safe. The match-safe was empty and she
left the room to get a fresh supply from her kitchenette.

On the inner face of her front door was a big mirror, and in it, as she came back through the
unlighted passage, she saw her husband. He was sitting just as she'd left him, and as his face
was partly turned away from her, it could not have been from the expression of it that she
got her revelation. But she stopped there in the dark and caught her breath and leaned back
against the wall and squeezed the tears out of her eyes.

Perhaps it was just because he was sitting so still, a thing it was utterly unlike him to do.
The Rodney of her memories was always ranging about the rooms that confined him. Or the grip
of the one hand she could see upon the chair-arm it rested on may have had something to do
with it. But it was not, really, a consciously deductive process at all; just a clairvoyant
look--into him, and a sudden, complete, utterly confident understanding.

He had come down here to New York to make another beginning. He meant to assert no rights,
not even in their common memories, he would make no appeal. But something that he felt he had
forfeited he was going to try to earn back. What was the thing he sought--her friendship, or
her love? She knew! No plea that the inspired rhetoric of passion could be capable of could
have convinced her of his love for her and of his need for her love as did the divine absurdity
of this attempt of his to show her that she need give him--nothing. She knew. Oh, how she knew!

She stole back into her little kitchen and shut the door and leaned giddily against it, trying
to get her breath to coming steadily again. At last she straightened up and wiped her eyes.
A smile played across her lips; the smile of deep maternal tenderness. Then she picked up her
box of matches and carried them to him in the sitting-room.

He stayed that first evening a little less than an hour, and when he got up to go, she made
no effort to detain him. The thing had been, as its unbroken surface could testify, a highly
successful first call. Before she let him go, though, she asked him how long he was going to
be in New York, and on getting a very indeterminate answer that offered a minimum of "two or
three days" and a maximum that could not even be guessed at, she said:

"I hope you're not going to be too dreadfully busy for us to see a lot of each other. I wish
we might manage it once every day."

That shook him; for a moment, she thought the lightning was going to strike and stood very
still holding her breath, waiting for it.

But he steadied himself, said he could certainly manage that if she could, and as the elevator
came up in response to her ring, said that he would call her up in the morning at her office.

She puzzled a little during the intermittent processes of undressing, over why she had let
him go like that. She found it easy to name some of the things that were not the reason. It
was not--oh, a thousand times it was not!--that she wasn't quite sure of him. There was no
expressing the completeness of her certainty that, with a look, a sudden holding out of the
hands to him, the release of one little love-cry from her lips, a half-articulate, "Come and
take me, Roddy! That's all I want!" she could have shattered, annihilated, that brittle restraint
of his; released the full tempest of his passion; found herself--lost herself--in his embrace.

Certainly it was no doubt of that that had held her back. And, no more than doubt, was it pride
or modesty. The one thing her whole being was crying out for was a complete surrender to him.

But the real reason seemed rather absurd, when she tried to state it to herself. She had felt
that it would be a brutal thing to do. Really, her feeling toward him was that of a mother
toward a child who, having, he thinks, merited her displeasure, offers her, by way of atonement,
some dearly prized possession; an iron fire-engine, a woolly sheep. What mother wouldn't accept
an offering like that gravely!

This thing that Rodney had offered her, the valiant, heart breaking pretense that she needn't
give him anything--to her, whose aching need was to give him everything she had!--was just
as absurd as the child's toy could have been. But it had cost him.... Oh, what must it not
have cost him in struggle and sacrifice, to construct that pitiful, transparent pretense!--to
maintain that manner! And the struggle and the sacrifice must not be cheapened, made absurd
by a sudden shattering demonstration that they'd been unnecessary. His pretense must be melted,
not shattered. And until it could be melted, that aching need of hers must wait.

And then she realized that the ache was gone--the tormenting restless hunger for him that had
been nagging at her ever since the first rush of spring was somehow appeased. She'd have said,
twenty-four hours ago, that to be with him, have him near her, in any other relation than that
of her lover, would be unendurable. Twenty-four hours ago! She thought of that as she was winding
her watch. It seemed incredible that it was no longer than that since the saccharine little
sob in John McCormack's voice as he had sung "Just a little love, a li-ttle ki-iss," had driven
her frantic.

She turned out her light and opened her bedroom window. The phonograph across the court was
going again. But now, evidently, its master had come back from Pittsburgh, for it was singing
lustily, "That's why I wish again that I was in Michigan, back on the farm."

Rose smiled her old wide smile, and cuddled her cheek into the pillow. She was the happiest
person in the world.

When he called her up the next morning, she asked him to come down to the premises of Dane
& Company (it was a loft on lower Fifth Avenue) about noon and go out to lunch with her, and
she made no secret of her motive in selecting their rendezvous. "I'd like to have you see what
our place is like;" she said, "though it isn't like anything much just now, between seasons
this way. Still you can get an idea."

He said he would be immensely interested to see the place, and from the cadence of his voice
was apparently prepared to let the conversation end there. But she prolonged it a little.

"Do you hear from--Chicago while you're down here, Roddy?" she asked. "Whether everything's
all right--at home, I mean?"

It was a second or two before he answered, but when he did, his voice was perfectly steady.

"Yes," he said. "I get a night-letter every morning from Miss French. (This was Mrs. Ruston's
successor.) It's--everything's all right."

"Good-by, then, till noon," she said. And if he could have seen the smile that was on her lips,
and the brightness that was in her eyes as she said it ...!

It was a part, you see, of his Quixotic determination to make no claims, that he had not said
a word, during his evening call, about the twins--her babies!

On the stroke of twelve his card was brought to her, and she went out into their bare little
waiting-room to meet him.

"We aren't a regular dressmaking establishment, you see," she said. "The people we have to
impress aren't the ones we make the clothes for. So we can be as shabby down here as we please,
and Alice says--Alice Perosini, you know--that our shabbiness really does impress them. Shows
we don't care what they think.

"You're sure you've plenty of time to see around in?" she went on. "That it won't cut into
your time for lunch?"

He made it plain that he had plenty of time, and she took him into her own studio, a big north-lighted
room at the back of the building, with the painter's manikins that Jimmy Wallace had told about,
standing about in it, and some queer-looking electric-light fixtures suggestive of the stage;
a big tin-lined box with half a dozen powerful tungsten lamps in it, and grooves in the mouth
of it for the reception of colored slides. And a sort of search-light that swung on a pivot.
There was a high cutting-table with a deep indentation in it, in which Rose could stand with
her work all around her. On a shelf in a corner he noticed two or three little figures twelve
inches high or so that he'd have thought of as dolls had it not been that their small heads
gave them the scale of adults. Rose followed his glance.

"I play with those," she said. "Dress them in all sorts of things--tissue-paper mostly. It
seems easier to catch an idea small in the tips of my fingers, and then let it grow up. You
have to find out for yourself how you can do things, don't you?"

Then she took him out into the workroom, where there were more cutting-tables and power-driven
sewing-machines.

"'It never rains but it pours,' is the motto of this business," she told him. "Nobody ever
knows what he wants until the very last minute, and then he wants it the next, and everybody
wants it at once. And then this place is like a madhouse. We simply go out of our heads. It
was like that when Jimmy Wallace was down here. I hadn't a minute for him."

She added deliberately, "I'm glad you didn't come down then," and went swiftly on to explain
to him a sort of pantograph arrangement which could be set with reference to the measurements
of the manikin Rose had designed the costume upon, and those of the girl who was going to wear
it, so that the pattern for the costume itself, as distinct from Rose's master-pattern, was
cut almost automatically to fit.

"It's not really automatic, of course," she said. "No costume's done until I have seen it on
the girl who's going to wear it. But it does save time."

Alice Perosini came in just then, and a breath-taking spectacle she'd have been to most men
in the frock she had on. But it was not Rodney who gasped. It was Alice herself who almost
did, when Rose introduced him to her, without explanations, as Mr. Aldrich and said she was
going out to lunch with him.

"And there's no telling when I'll be back," she added, "so if there's anything to talk about,
you'd better seize the chance and tell me now."

Alice couldn't be blamed if her face was a study. She knew that Aldrich was the name of Rose's
abandoned husband, and it would have been natural to believe that this highly impressive-looking
person, whom Rose so casually introduced, was he. But the matter-of-fact way in which Rose
was trotting him about the shop, and spoke of carrying him off to lunch, seemed to make such
a conclusion fantastic.

There was nothing casual about the man, though, she reflected afterward. He'd taken his part,
adequately and politely, of course, in the introduction and the fragmentary word or two of
small-talk that had followed it, but Alice doubted if he'd really seen her at all. And when
a man didn't see Alice--this was a line of reasoning she was quite candidly capable of--it
meant an intensity of preoccupation that one might call monstrous--portentous, anyway.

