Lavengro, which followed, has all the merits of its predecessor and more. It is a little spoilt
in its later chapters by the purpose, the antipapal purpose, which appears still more fully
in The Romany Rye. But the strong and singular individuality of its flavour as a whole would
have been more than sufficient to carry off a greater fault. There are, I should suppose, few
books the successive pictures of which leave such an impression on the reader who is prepared
to receive that impression. The word picture is here rightly used, for in all Borrow's books
more or less, and in this particularly, the narrative is anything but continuous. It is a succession
of dissolving views which grow clear and distinct for a time and then fade off into vagueness
before once more appearing distinctly; nor has this mode of dealing with a subject ever been
more successfully applied than in Lavengro. At the same time the mode is one singularly difficult
of treatment by any reviewer. To describe Lavengro with any chance of distinctness to those
who have not read it, it would be necessary to give a series of sketches in words, like those
famous ones of the pictures in Jane Eyre. East Dereham, the Viper Collector, the French Prisoners
at Norman Cross, the Gipsy Encampment, the Sojourn in Edinburgh (with a passing view of Scotch
schoolboys only inferior, as everything is, to Sir Walter's history of Green-breeks), the Irish
Sojourn (with the horse whispering and the "dog of peace,") the settlement in Norwich (with
Borrow's compulsory legal studies and his very uncompulsory excursions into Italian, Hebrew,
Welsh, Scandinavian, anything that obviously would not pay), the new meeting with the gipsies
in the Castle Field, the fight--only the first of many excellent fights--these are but a few
of the memories which rise to every reader of even the early chapters of this extraordinary
book, and they do not cover its first hundred pages in the common edition. Then his father
dies and the born vagrant is set loose for vagrancy. He goes to London, with a stock of translations
which is to make him famous, and a recommendation from Taylor of Norwich to "the publisher."
The publisher exacted something more than his pound of flesh in the form of Newgate Lives and
review articles, and paid, when he did pay, in bills of uncertain date which were very likely
to be protested. But Borrow won through it all, making odd acquaintances with a young man of
fashion (his least lifelike sketch); with an apple-seller on London Bridge, who was something
of a "fence" and had erected Moll Flanders (surely the oddest patroness ever so selected) into
a kind of patron saint; with a mysterious Armenian merchant of vast wealth, whom the young
man, according to his own account, finally put on a kind of filibustering expedition against
both the Sublime Porte and the White Czar, for the restoration of Armenian independence. At
last, out of health with perpetual work and low living, out of employ, his friends beyond call,
he sees destruction before him, writes The Life and Adventures of Joseph Sell (name of fortunate
omen!) almost at a heat and on a capital, fixed and floating, of eighteen-pence, and disposes
of it for twenty pounds by the special providence of the Muses. With this twenty pounds his
journey into the blue distance begins. He travels, partly by coach, to somewhere near Salisbury,
and gives the first of the curiously unfavourable portraits of stage coachmen, which remain
to check Dickens's rose-coloured representations of Mr. Weller and his brethren. I incline
to think that Borrow's was likely to be the truer picture. According to him, the average stage
coachman was anything but an amiable character, greedy, insolent to all but persons of wealth
and rank, a hanger-on of those who might claim either; bruiser enough to be a bully but not
enough to be anything more; in short, one of the worst products of civilisation. From civilisation
itself, however, Borrow soon disappears, as far as any traceable signs go. He journeys, not
farther west but northwards, into the West Midlands and the marches of Wales. He buys a tinker's
beat and fit-out from a feeble vessel of the craft, who has been expelled by "the Flaming Tinman,"
a half-gipsy of robustious behaviour. He is met by old Mrs. Hearne, the mother-in-law of his
gipsy friend Jasper Petulengro, who resents a Gorgio's initiation in gipsy ways, and very nearly
poisons him by the wily aid of her grand-daughter Leonora. He recovers, thanks to a Welsh travelling
preacher and to castor oil. And then, when the Welshman has left him, comes the climax and
turning-point of the whole story, the great fight with Jem Bosvile, "the Flaming Tinman." The
much-abused adjective Homeric belongs in sober strictness to this immortal battle, which has
the additional interest not thought of by Homer (for goddesses do not count) that Borrow's
second and guardian angel is a young woman of great attractions and severe morality, Miss Isopel
(or Belle) Berners, whose extraction, allowing for the bar sinister, is honourable, and who,
her hands being fully able to keep her head, has sojourned without ill fortune in the Flaming
Tinman's very disreputable company. Bosvile, vanquished by pluck and good fortune rather than
strength, flees the place with his wife. Isopel remains behind and the couple take up their
joint residence, a residence of perfect propriety, in this dingle, the exact locality of which
I have always longed to know, that I might make an autumnal pilgrimage to it. Isopel, Brynhild
as she is, would apparently have had no objection to be honourably wooed. But her eccentric
companion confines himself to teaching her "I love" in Armenian, which she finds unsatisfactory;
and she at last departs, leaving a letter which tells Mr. Borrow some home truths. And, even
before this catastrophe has been reached, Lavengro itself ends with a more startling abruptness
than perhaps any nominally complete book before or since.

