It is a mark of a shallow mind to scorn these theological wrestlings and surgings; they have
had in them something even sublime. They were always bounded and steadied by the most profound
reverence for God and his word; and they have constituted in New England the strong mental
discipline needed by a people who were an absolute democracy. The Sabbath teaching of New England
has been a regular intellectual drill as well as a devotional exercise; and if one does not
see the advantage of this, let him live awhile in France or Italy, and see the reason why,
with all their aspirations after liberty, there is no capability of self-government in the
masses; put the tiller of the Campagna, or the vine-dresser of France, beside the theologically
trained, keen, thoughtful New England farmer, and see which is best fitted to administer a
government.

Another leading characteristic of the New England clergy was their great freedom of original
development. The volumes before us are full of indications of the most racy individuality.
There was no such thing as a clerical mould or pattern; but each minister, particularly in
the rural districts, grew and flourished as freely and unconventionally as the apple-trees
in his own orchard, and was considered none the worse for that, so long as he bore good fruit
of the right sort. Thus we find among them all stamps and kinds of men,--men of decorum and
ceremony, like Dr. Emmons and President Edwards, and men who, aiming after the real, despised
the form, kept no order, and revered no ceremony; yet all flourished in peace, and were allowed
to do their work in their own way.

We find here and there records of pleasant little encounters of humor among them on these points.
Parson Deane, of Portland, was a precise man, and always appeared in the clerical regalia of
the times, with powdered wig, cocked hat, gown, bands. Parson Hemmenway went about with just
such clothes as he happened to find convenient, without the least regard to the conventional order.

Being together on a council. Dr. Deane playfully remarked,--

"The ferryman, Brother Hemmenway, as we came over, hadn't the least idea you were a clergyman.
Now I am particular always to appear with my wig on."

"Precisely," said Dr. Hemmenway; "I know it is well to bestow more abundant honor on the part
that lacketh."

It is a curious illustration of the times and people to see how quietly the personal eccentricities
of a good minister were received.

One Mr. Moody, who flourished in the State of Maine, was one of those born oddities whose growth
of mind rejects every outward rule. Brilliant, original, restless, he found it impossible to
bring his thoughts to march in the regular platoon and file of a properly written sermon. It
is told of him, that, moved by the admiration of his people for the calm and orderly performances
of one of his neighboring brethren of the name of Emerson, he resolved to write a sermon in
the same style. After the usual introductory services, he began to read his performance, but
soon grew weary, stumbled disconsolately, and at last stopped, exclaiming,--"Emerson must be
Emerson, and Moody must be Moody! I feel as if I had my head in a bag! You call Moody a rambling
preacher;--it is true enough; but his preaching will do to catch rambling sinners, and you
are all runaways from the Lord."

His clerical brethren at a meeting of the Association once undertook to call him to account
for his odd expressions and back-handed strokes. He stepped into his study and produced a record
of some twenty or thirty cases of conversions which had resulted from some of his exceptional
sayings. As he read them over with the dates, they looked at each other with surprise, and
one of them very sensibly remarked, "If the Lord owns Father Moody's oddities, we must let
him take his own way."

His son, Joseph Moody, furnished the original incident which Hawthorne has so exquisitely worked
up in his story of "The Minister's Black Veil." Being of a singularly nervous and melancholic
temperament, he actually for many years shrouded his face with a black handkerchief. When reading
a sermon he would lift this, but stood with his back to the audience so that his face was concealed,--all
which appears to have been accepted by his people with sacred simplicity. He was known in the
neighborhood by the name of Handkerchief Moody.

It is recorded also of the venerable and eccentric Father Mills, of Torringford, that, on the
death of his much beloved wife, he was greatly exercised as to how a minister who always dressed
in black could sufficiently express his devotion and respect for the departed by any outward
change of dress. At last he settled the question to his own satisfaction, by substituting for
his white wig a black silk pocket-handkerchief, with which head-dress he officiated in all
simplicity during the usual term of mourning.

We think it one result of their great freedom from any strait-laced conventional ideas, that
no point of character is more frequently noticed in the subjects of these sketches than wit
and humor. New England ministers never held it a sin to laugh; if they did, some of them had
a great deal to answer for; for they could scarce open their mouths without dropping some provocation
to a smile. An ecclesiastical meeting was always a merry season; for there never were wanting
quaint images, humorous anecdotes, and sharp flashes of wit, and even the driest and most metaphysical
points of doctrine were often lit up and illuminated by these corruscations.

A panel taken out of the house of the Rev. John Lowell, of Newbury, is still preserved, representing
the common style of an ecclesiastical meeting in those days. The divines, each in full wig
and gown, are seated around a table, smoking their pipes, and above is the well-known inscription:
In necessariis, Unitas: in non necessariis, Libertas: in utrisque Charitas.

In that delightfully naïve and simple journal of the Rev. Thomas Smith, the first minister
settled in Portland, Maine, in the year 1725, we find the following entries.

"July 4, 1763. Mr. Brooks was ordained. A multitude of people from my parish. A decent solemnity."

"January 16, 1765. Those who enjoy the poet's acquaintance will probably testify that the property
of social alertness has not evaporated from the family in the lapse of so many years.

It is recorded of Dr. Griffin, that, when President of the Andover Theological Seminary, he
convened the students at his room one evening, and told them he had observed that they were
all growing thin and dyspeptical from a neglect of the exercise of Christian laughter, and
he insisted upon it that they should go through a company-drill in it then and there. The Doctor
was an immense man,--over six feet in height, with great amplitude of chest and most magisterial
manners. "Here," said he to the first, "you must practise; now hear me!" and bursting out into
a sonorous laugh, he fairly obliged his pupils, one by one, to join, till the whole were almost
convulsed. "That will do for once," said the Doctor, "and now mind you keep in practice!"

New England used to be full of traditions of the odd sayings of Dr. Bellamy, one of the most
powerful theologians and preachers of his time. His humor, however, seems to have been wholly
a social quality, requiring to be struck out by the collision of conversation; for nothing
of the peculiar quaintness and wit ascribed to him appears in his writings, which are in singularly
simple, clear English. One or two of his sayings circulated about us in our childhood. For
example, when one had built a fire of green wood, he exclaimed, "Warm me here! I'd as soon
try to warm me by star-light on the north side of a tombstone!" Speaking of the chapel-bell
of Yale College, he said, "It was about as good a bell as a fur cap with a sheep's tail in it."

A young minister, who had made himself conspicuous for a severe and denunciatory style of preaching,
came to him one day to inquire why he did not have more success. "Why, man," said the Doctor,
"can't you take a lesson of the fisherman? How do you go to work, if you want to catch a trout?
You get a little hook and a fine line, you bait it carefully and throw it in as gently as possible,
and then you sit and wait and humor your fish till you can get him ashore. Now you get a great
cod-hook and rope-line, and thrash it into the water, and bawl out, 'Bite or be damned!'"

The Doctor himself gained such a reputation as an expert spiritual fisherman, that some of
his parishioners, like experienced old trout, played shy of his hook, though never so skilfully
baited.

"Why, Mr. A.," he said to an old farmer in his neighborhood, "they tell me you are an Atheist.
Don't you believe in the being of a God?"

"No!" said the man.

"But, Mr. A., let's look into this. You believe that the world around us exists from some cause?"

"No, I don't!"

"Well, then, at any rate, you believe in your own existence?"

"No, I don't!"

"What! not believe that you exist yourself?"

"I tell you what, Doctor," said the man, "I a'n't going to be twitched up by any of your syllogisms,
and so I tell you I don't believe anything,--and I'm not going to believe anything!"

A collection of the table-talk of the clergy whose lives are sketched in Dr. Sprague's volumes
would be a rare fund of humor, shrewdness, genius, and originality. We must say, however, that
as nothing is so difficult as to collect these sparkling emanations of conversation, the written
record which this work presents falls far below that traditional one which floated about us
in our earlier years. So much in wit and humor depends on the electric flash, the relation
of the idea to the attendant circumstances, that people often remember only how they have laughed,
and can no more reproduce the expression than they can daguerreotype the heat-lightning of
a July night.

The doctrine that a minister is to maintain some ethereal, unearthly station, where, wrapt
in divine contemplation, he is to regard with indifference the actual struggles and realities
of life, is a sickly species of sentimentalism, the growth of modern refinement, and altogether
too moonshiny to have been comprehended by our stout-hearted and very practical fathers. With
all their excellences, they had nothing sentimental about them; they were bent on reducing
all things to practical, manageable realities. They would not hear of churches, but called
them meeting-houses; they would not be called clergymen, but ministers or servants,--thereby
signifying their calling to real, tangible work among real men and things.

As we have already said, in the beginnings of New England, the Church and State were identical,
and the clergy ex officio the main counsellors and directors of the Commonwealth; and when
this especial prerogative was relinquished, they naturally retained something of the bent it
had given them.

An interesting portion of these sketches comprises the lives of ministers during our Revolutionary
struggle, showing how ardently and manfully at that time the clergy headed the people. Many
of them went into the army as chaplains; one or two, more zealous still, even took up temporal
arms; while the greater number showered the enemy with sermons, tracts, and pamphlets.

Some of the more zealous politicians among them did not scruple to bring their sentiments even
into the prayers of the church. We recollect an anecdote of a stout Whig minister of New Haven,
who, during the occupation of the town by the British, was ordered to offer public prayers
for the King, which he did as follows: "O Lord, bless thy servant, King George, and grant unto
him wisdom; for thou knowest, O Lord, he needs it."

So afterwards, in the time of the Embargo, Parson Eaton, of Harpswell, a Federalist, is recorded
to have introduced his prayer for the President in a formula which might be recommended at
the present day for the use of the people of Kansas. "Forasmuch as thou hast commanded us to
pray for our enemies, we pray for the President of these United States, that his heart may
be turned to just counsels," etc.

This same Parson Eaton distinguished himself also for his patriotic enthusiasm in Revolutionary
times. When the British had burned Falmouth, (Portland,) a messenger came to Harpswell to beat
up for recruits to the Continental forces. Not succeeding to his mind, he went to Parson Eaton,
one Sunday morning, and begged him to say something for him in the course of the day's services.
"It is my sacramental Sabbath," said the valiant Doctor, "and I cannot. But at the going down
of the sun I will speak to my people." And accordingly, that very evening, Bible in hand, on
the green before the meeting-house, Dr. Eaton addressed the people, denouncing the curse of
Meroz on those who came not up to the help of the country, and recruits flowed in abundantly.

The pastors of New England were always in their sphere moral reformers. Profitable and popular
sins, though countenanced by long-established custom, were fearlessly attacked. No sight could
be more impressive than that of Dr. Hopkins--who with all his power of mind was never a popular
preacher, and who knew he was not popular--rising up in Newport pulpits to testify against
the slave-trade, then as reputable and profitable a sin as slave-holding is now. He knew that
Newport was the stronghold of the practice, and that the probable consequence of his faithfulness
would be the loss of his pulpit and of his temporal support; but none the less plainly and
faithfully did he testify. Fond as he was of doctrinal subtilties, keen as was his analysis
of disinterested benevolence, he did not, like some in our day, confine himself to analyzing
virtue in the abstract, but took upon himself the duty of practicing it in the concrete without
fear of consequences,--well knowing that there is no logic like that of consistent action.

We should do injustice to our subject, if we did not add a testimony to the peculiarly religious
character and influence of the men of whom we speak. Shrewd, practical, capable, as they were,
in the affairs of this life, perfectly natural and human as were their characters, still they
were in the best sense unworldly men. Religion was the deep underlying stratum on which their
whole life was built. Like the granite framework of the earth, it sunk below all and rose above
all else in their life. No Acta Sanctorum contain more pathetic pictures of simple and all-absorbing
godliness than were displayed by the subjects of these sketches. However they may have differed
among themselves as to the metaphysical adjustment of the Calvinistic system, all agreed in
so presenting it as to make God all in all.

Doctor Arnold says it is necessary for the highest development of the soul that it should have
somewhere an object of entire reverence enthroned above all possibility of doubt or criticism.
Now a radically democratic system, like that of New England, at once sweeps all factitious
reliances of this kind from the soul. No crown, no court, no nobility, no ritual, no hierarchy,--the
beautiful principles of reverence and loyalty might have died out of the American heart, had
not these men by their religious teachings upborne it as on eagles' wings to the footstool
of the King Eternal, Immortal, Invisible. Hence we see why what was commonly called among them
the "Doctrine of Divine Sovereignty" acquired so prominent a place in their preaching and their
hearts. They were men of deep reverence and profound loyalty of nature, from whom every lower
object for the repose of these qualities had been torn away,--who concentrated on God alone
those sentiments of faith and fealty which in other lands are divided with Church and King.
Hence, more than that of any other clergy, their preaching contemplated God as King and Ruler.
Submission to him without condition, without limit, they both preached and practised. Unconditional
submission was as constantly on their lips God-ward as it was sparingly uttered man-ward.

No picture of the "good parson" that was ever drawn could exceed in beauty that of the Rev.
Jeremiah Hallock, whose life and manners had that indescribable beauty, completeness, and sacredness,
which religion sometimes gives when shining out through a peculiarly congenial natural temperament,--yet
we must confess we are as much interested and impressed with its effects in those wilder and
more erratic temperaments, such as Bellamy, Backus, and Moody, where genius and passion were
so combined as to lead to many inconsistencies. This book is a record of how manfully many
such men battled with themselves, repairing the faults of their hasty and passionate hours
by the true and honest humility of their better ones, so that, as one has said of our Pilgrim
Fathers, we feel that they may have been endeared to God even by their faults.

The pastoral labors of these ministers were abounding. Two and sometimes three services on
the Sabbath, and a weekly lecture, were only the beginning of their labors. Multitudes of them
held circuit meetings, to the number of two or three a week, in the outskirts of their parishes;
besides which they labored conversationally from house to house with individuals.

Gradual, indefinite, insensible amelioration of character was not by any means the only or
the highest aim of their preaching. They sought to make religion as definite and as real to
men as their daily affairs, and to bring them, as respects their spiritual history, to crises
as marked and decided as those to which men are brought in temporal matters. They must become
Christians now, today; the change must be immediate, all-pervading, thorough.

Such a style of preaching, from men of such power, could not be without corresponding results,
especially as it was based always upon strong logical appeals to the understanding. From it
resulted, from time to time, periods which are marked in these narratives as revivals of religion,--seasons
in which the cumulative force of the instructions and power of the pastor, recognized by that
gracious assistance on which he always depended, reached a point of outward development that
affected the whole social atmosphere, and brought him into intimate and confidential knowledge
of the spiritual struggles of his flock. The preaching of the pastor was then attuned and modified
to these disclosures, and his metaphysical system shaped and adapted to what he perceived to
be the real wants and weaknesses of the soul. Hence arose modifications of theology,--often
interfering with received theory, just as a judicious physician's clinical practice varies
from the book. Many of the theological disputes which have agitated New England have arisen
in the honest effort to reconcile accepted forms of faith with the observed phenomena and real
needs of the soul in its struggles heavenward.

       *       *       *       *       *

A BRIEF REVIEW OF THE KANSAS USURPATION.

If it had been the avowed intention of the dominant party in this country to disgust the people
by a long and systematic course of wrong-doing,--if it had wished to prove that it was indissolubly
wedded to injustice, inconsistency, and error, it could not have chosen a better method of
doing so than it has actually pursued, in the entire management of the Kansas question. From
the beginning to the end, that has been both a blunder and a crime. Nothing more atrocious,--nothing
more perverse,--nothing more foolish, as a matter of policy,--and we might add, but for the
seriousness of the subject, nothing more ludicrous,--has occurred in our history, than the
attempt, which has now been persisted in for several years, to force the evils of Slavery upon
a people who cannot and will not endure them.

We say, to force the evils of slavery upon an unwilling people,--because such has been and
is the only end of this protracted endeavor. The authors of the scheme have scarcely shown
the ordinary cunning of rogues, which conceals its ulterior purposes. Disdaining the advice
of Mrs. Peachum to her daughter Polly, to be "somewhat nice" in her deviations from virtue,
they have advanced bravely and flagrantly to their nefarious object. They have been reckless,
defiant, aggressive; but, unfortunately for them, they have not been sagacious. The thin disguise
of principle under which they masked their designs at the outset--as it were a bit of oiled
paper--was soon torn away; the plot betrayed its inherent wickedness from step to step; the
instruments selected to execute it have one after another abandoned the task, as quite impracticable
for any honest mortal; and now these whilom advocates of "Popular Sovereignty" stand exposed
to the scorn and derision of the country, as nothing less than what their opponents all along
declared them to be,--the sworn champions of Slavery-Extension. All the movements and changes
of their external policy find their explication in the single phrase, the actual and the political
advancement of the interests of Slavery.

It is humiliating to an American citizen to cast his eyes back, even for a moment, to the history
of this Kansas plot,--humiliating in many ways; but in none more so than in the revelation
it makes of the depth and extent of party-servility in the Northern mind. Throughout the proceedings
of the "Democracy" towards the unhappy settlers of Kansas, it is difficult to place the finger
on a single act of large, just, or generous policy; every step in it appears to have developed
some new outrage or some new fraud; and yet, every step in it has also elicited new shouts
of approval from the echoing lieges and bondmen of "the Party." We should willingly, therefore,
turn away from the theme, but that we believe the end is not yet come; a review of its past
may instruct us as to its future. For it is not always true, as Coleridge says, that experience,
like the stern-lights of a ship, illuminates only the track it has left; the lights may be
hung upon the bows, and the spectator be enabled to discern, by means of them, no less, the
way in which it is going.

A "Territory," viewed in connection with the political system of the United States, must be
confessed to be a somewhat erratic and embarrassing member. Few or no specific provisions are
made for it in the Organic Law, which applies primarily, and quite exclusively, to "States."
Judging by the mere letter or obvious import of the Constitution, the right of acquiring and
governing territory would seem to be a casus omissus, or a power overlooked. Accordingly, Mr.
Webster went so far as to assert that the framers of it never contemplated its extension beyond
the original limits of the country;[A] but this we can scarcely believe of men so far-seeing
and sagacious. It were a better opinion, which Mr. Benton has recently urged, that the acquisition
and control of territories are necessary incidents of the sovereign and proprietary character
of the government created by the Constitution.[B] But be this as it may, whatever the theoretic
origin of the right to acquire territory,--whatever the origin of the right to govern it,--whether
the former be derived from the war-making power, which implies conquest, or from the treaty-making
power, which implies purchase,--and whether the latter be derived from an express grant or
is involved as necessary to the execution of other grants, both questions were definitively
settled by long and universally accepted practice. Under the actual legislation of Congress,
running over a period of sixty years,--a legislation sanctioned by all administrations, by
all departments of the government, by all the authorities of the individual States, by all
statesmen of all parties, and by frequent popular recognitions,--prescription has taken the
force of law, and that which might once be theoretically doubtful became forever practically
valid and legitimate.

[Footnote A: Works, Vol. V. p. 306.]

[Footnote B: See his late pamphlet on the Dred Scott decision, which we may say, without adopting
its conclusions, every statesman ought to read.]

It was not till within the last few years that the right of Congress over the Territories was
questioned. Certain classes of politicians then discovered that the whole of our past statesmanship
had been a mistake, and that the time had come to propound a new doctrine. No! they said, it
is not Congress, not the Federal Government, which is entitled to govern the Territories, but
the Territories themselves,--which means the handful of their original occupants. The real
sovereignty resides in the squatters, and Squatter Sovereignty is the charm which dispels all
difficulties. Alas! it was rather like the ingredients mingled by Macbeth's hags, only "a charm
of powerful trouble." Overlooking the fact that the Territories were Territories precisely
because they were not States, this absurd theory proposed to confer the highest character of
an organized political existence upon a society wholly inchoate. As land, the Territories were
the property of the United States, to be disposed of and regulated by the will of Congress;
as collections of men, they were yet immature communities, having in reality no social being,
and in that light also wisely and benevolently subjected to the will of Congress; but Squatter
Sovereignty elevated them, willy nilly, to an independent self-subsistence. They were declared
full-formed and fledged before they were out of the shell. A mere conglomeration of emigrants,
Indian traders, and half-breeds was invested with all the functions of a mature and ripened
civilization. Long ere there were people enough in any Territory to furnish the officers of
a regular government,--before they possessed any of the apparatus of court-houses, jails, legislative
chambers, etc., essential to a regular government,--before they lived near enough to each other,
in fact, to constitute a respectable town-meeting,--before they could pay the expenses or gather
the means of their own defence from the Indians, these wonderful entities were held to be endowed
with the right of entering into the most complicated relations and of forming the most important
institutions for themselves,--and not only for themselves, but for their posterity.

This puerile dogma was asserted ostensibly in the interest of Slavery, in order to get rid
of the power of Congress over that subject; but the real source of it was the cowardice of
those invertebrate and timorous politicians who desired to evade the responsibility of expressing
opinions concerning this power. General Cass was the putative father of it, and it might well
have come from one of his pliancy and calibre; but as Slavery itself, embodied in the person
of Calhoun, scouted the feeble bantling, there was soon no one so mean as to confess the paternity.
Abandoned of its begetters, Squatter Sovereignty wandered the streets like a squalid and orphaned
outcast, begging anybody and everybody to take it in, and finding no creditable welcome anywhere.

Calhoun and his friends, no less anxious than Cass and his friends to rescue Slavery from the
discretion of Congress, though for other reasons, contrived to find a more respectable excuse
for such a policy. As California and New Mexico--both free soil--had lately been acquired,
they contended that the moment new territories attached to the United States, the same moment
the Constitution attached to them; and inasmuch as the Constitution guarantied the existence
of Slavery, presto, Slavery must be regarded as existing under it in the Territories! This,
we say, was more respectable ground than Squatter Sovereignty, because it met the question
more fairly in the face; yet, considered either as dialectics or history, it was not one whit
less absurd. We do not wonder that Webster, and all the other sound lawyers of the nation,
heard such an announcement of Constitutional hermeneutics with utter surprise and astonishment.
It was enough to astound even the veriest tyro in the law. The Constitution--and especially
by all the premises of the State-Rights school--is a mere compact between the States; it confers
no powers but delegated and enumerated powers, and such as are indispensable to the execution
of these; and nowhere is there a clause or letter in it extending its operation beyond the
States. Even in respect to acknowledged powers, these are inoperative until carried into effect
by a special act of Congress; they have no vitality in themselves,--they are only dead provisions
or forms till Congress has breathed into them the breath of life; and thence to argue that
of their own energy they may leap into or embrace the Territories is to argue that a corpse
may on its own motion rise and walk.

But granting this caoutchouc property, this migratory power, in the Constitution, the inference
that it would take Slavery with it is a still more monstrous error than the original premises.
Slavery as such is not recognized or guarantied by the Federal Constitution. Whatever the five
slave-holding judges of the Supreme Court may seek to maintain, they cannot upset the universal
logic of the law, nor extinguish the fundamental principles of our political system. Slavery
exists only by the local or municipal usage of the States in which it exists; it is there universally
defined as a right of property in man; whereas the Constitution of the United States, in all
its prohibitions and provisions, designates and acts upon human beings only as persons. Whatever
their characters or relations under the laws of the States, they are, under the Federal Constitution,
MEN. Nowhere in that immortal paper is there an iota or tittle which gives countenance to the
idea that human beings may be held as property. It speaks of "persons held to service or labor,"
as apprentices, for instance,--and of persons other than free, i.e. not politically citizens,
as Indians and some negroes; but it does not speak of Slaves or of Slavery; on the contrary,
in every part, it legislates for men solely as men. The laws of each State, and the relations
of the various inhabitants of each State, it of course recognizes as valid within each State;
but it recognizes them as resting exclusively on the municipal authority of the State, and
not on its own authority. Against nothing did the framers of the Constitution more strenuously
contend than against the admission of any phrase sanctioning the tenure of man as property.
They refused even to allow of the use of the word servitude, so much did they hate the thing;
and Madison expressed their almost unanimous sentiment when he exclaimed, "We intend this Constitution
to be THE GREAT CHARTER OF HUMAN LIBERTY to the unborn millions who shall yet enjoy its protection,
and who should not see that such an institution as Slavery was ever known in our midst." In
that spirit was the instrument framed, and in that spirit was it administered, while its framers
lived.

Nevertheless, under the twofold pretence we have cited,--the one reconciling the conscience
with the cowardice of the North, and the other conceding the arrogant pretensions of the South,--the
negation of the power of the central government over Slavery was carried into effect. By a
legislative hocus-pocus, known as the Compromise Measures of 1850, Congress, contrary to the
uniform tendency of bodies entrusted with a discretion, vacated instead of enlarging its powers.
Its sovereign function of territorial legislation was abdicated, in favor of that wretched
and ragged pretender, Squatter Sovereignty; and silly or misguided people everywhere, who professed
to regard as dangerous that political excitement and agitation which are the life of republics,
hailed the accession of King Log as a glorious triumph of legitimacy. In the remanding of a
delicate question from the central to a local jurisdiction, in the conversion of a general
into a topical inflammation, they affected to see an end of the difficulty, a cure to the disease.
But no expectation could have been less wise. It was a transfer, and a possible postponement,
but not a settlement of the trouble. Had they looked deeper, they would have discerned that
the dispute in regard to Slavery is involved in the very structure of our government, which
links two incompatible civilizations under the same head, which compels a struggle for political
power between the diverse elements by the terms and conditions of their union, and which, if
the contest is suppressed at one time or place, forces it to break out at another, and will
force it to break out incessantly, until either Freedom or Slavery has achieved a decisive triumph.

The principle of the non-interference of Congress with the Territories once secured, there
yet stood in the way of its universal application the time-honored agreement called the Missouri
Compromise. Down to the year 1820, Congress had legislated to keep Slavery out of the Territories;
but at that disastrous era, a weak dread of civil convulsion led to the surrender of a single
State (Missouri) to this evil,--under a solemn stipulation and warrant, however, that it should
never again be introduced north of a certain line. Originating with the Slave-holders, and
sustained by the Slave-holders, this compact was sacredly respected by them for thirty-three
years; it was respected until they had got out of it all the advantages they could, and until
Freedom was about to reap her advantages,--when they began to denounce it as unconstitutional
and void. A Northern Senator--whose conduct then we shall not characterize, as he seems now
to be growing weary of the hard service into which he entered--was made the instrument of its
overthrow. That hallowed landmark, which had lifted its awful front against the spread of Slavery
for more than an entire generation, was obliterated by a quibble, and the morning sun of the
22d of May, 1854, rose for the last time "on the guarantied and certain liberties of all the
unsettled and unorganized region of the American Continent." Everything there was of honor,
of justice, of the love of truth and liberty, in the heart of the nation, was smitten by this
painful blow; the common sense of security felt the wound; the consoling consciousness that
the faith of men might be relied upon was removed by it; and to the general imagination, in
fact, it seemed as if some mighty charm, which had stayed the issue of untold calamities, were
suddenly and wantonly broken.

Thus, after the Constitution had been perverted in its fundamental character,--after Congress
had been despoiled of one of its most important functions,--after a compact, made sacred by
the faith, the feelings, and the hopes of the third of a century, was torn in pieces,--the
road was clear for the organization of the Kansas and Nebraska Territories. It was given out,
amid jubilations which could not have been louder, if they had been the spontaneous greetings
of some real triumph of principle, that henceforth and forever the inhabitants of the Territories
would be called to determine their "domestic institutions" for themselves. Under this theory,
and amid these shouts, Kansas was opened for settlement; and it was scarcely opened, before
it became, as might have been expected, the battleground for the opposing civilizations of
the Union, to renew and fight out their long quarrel upon. From every quarter of the land settlers
rushed thither, to take part in the wager of battle. They rushed thither, as individuals and
as associations, as Yankees and as Corn-crackers, as Blue Lodges and as Emigrant Aid Societies;
and most of them went, not only as it was their right, but as it was their duty to do. Congress
had invited them in; it had abandoned legitimate legislation in order to substitute for it
a scramble between the first comers; and it had said to every man who knew that Slavery was
more than a simple local interest, that it was in fact an element of the general political
power, "Come and decide the issue here!"

Whatever the consequences, therefore, the cowardly action of Congress was the original cause.
But what were the consequences? First, a protracted anarchy and civil war among the several
classes of emigrants;--second, a murderous invasion of the Territory by the borderers of a
neighboring State, for the purpose of carrying the elections against the bonâ-fide settlers;--third,
the establishment of a system of terrorism, in which outrages having scarcely a parallel on
this continent were committed, with a view to suppress all protest against the illegality of
those elections, and to drive out settlers of a particular class;--fourth, the commission of
a spurious legislative assembly, in the enforced absence of protests against the illegal returns
of votes;--fifth, the enactment of a series of laws for the government of the Territory, the
most tyrannical and bloody ever devised for freemen,--laws which aimed a fatal blow at the
four corner-stones of a free commonwealth,--freedom of speech, of the press, of the jury, and
of suffrage;--sixth, the recognition of Slavery as an existing fact, and the denunciation of
penalties, as for felony, against every attempt to question it in word or deed;--and, finally,
the dismissal of the Territorial Governor, (Reeder,) who had exhibited some signs of self-respect
and conscience in resisting these wicked schemes, and who was compelled to fly the Territory
in disguise, under a double menace of public prosecution and private assassination.

These were the scenes of the first act, in a drama then commenced; and those of the next were
not unlike. A second Governor (Shannon) having been procured,--a Governor chosen with a double
fitness to the use,--on the ground of his sympathy with whatever was vulgar in border-ruffian
habits and with whatever was obsequious in Presidential policy,--the deliberate game of forcing
the settlers to submit to the infamous usurpation of the Missourians was opened. But, thank
Heaven! those brave and hardy pioneers would not submit! There was enough of the blood of the
Puritans and of the Revolutionary Sires coursing in their veins, to make them feel that submission,
under such circumstances, would have been a base betrayal of liberty, a surrender of honor,
and a sacrifice of every honest sentiment of justice and self-respect. "Come," they said to
the marauders,--"come, hack this flesh from our limbs, and scatter these bones to bleach with
those of so many of our friends and brothers, already strewn upon the unshorn and desolate
fields,--but do not ask us to submit to wrongs so daring or to frauds so foul!" The marauders
took them at their word, and hewed and hacked them with shameless cruelty; yet, with a singular
forbearance, the friends of freedom did not hastily resent the outrages with which they had
been visited. They loved freedom, but they loved law too; and they proceeded in a legal and
peaceful spirit to procure the redress of their grievances,--in the first place by an appeal
to Congress, and in the second, by the organization of a State government of their own. Both
of these methods they had an indisputable right to adopt; for the first is guarantied to every
citizen, even the meanest,--and the second, though informal, was not illegal, and had, time
and again, been sanctioned by the highest political tribunals of the land.

Congress had dismissed the subject of Territorial Government; and here it was again, in a more
troublesome guise than it had ever before assumed. The ghost of the murdered Banquo would not
down at its bidding. Nearly the entire session of 1856 was consumed in heated and virulent
debates on Kansas. The House, fresh from the affections of the people, was disposed to do justice
to the sufferers; it confirmed, by the investigations of its committees, the verity of every
complaint, and it was not willing to allow a trivial technicality to stand in the way of the
great cause of truth and right. But the Senate was dogmatic and hard,--full of whims, and scruples,
and hair-splitting difficulties,--ever straining at gnats and swallowing camels; of the few
there inclined to bear a manly part, one was overpowered by the club of a bully, and the others
by the despotism of numbers and of party drill. As for the Executive, it was bound hand and
foot to the Slave Power, and had no option but to let loose its minions, its judges, its sheriffs,
its vagabonds, and its dragoons upon the poor Free-State men, whose only crime was a refusal
to submit to the most outrageous abuses. Their towns were burned, their presses destroyed,
their assemblies dispersed, and their wives and children brutally insulted. The debauched and
imbecile Governor, who represented the Federal Power, hounded on the miscreants of the border
to the work of destruction, so long as he was able; but he happily became in the end too weak
even for this perfunctory labor; and he gradually sank into deliquium, till his final withdrawal
into the obscurities whence he had emerged gave a momentary peace to the distracted and baffled
settlers.

We pass over the administration of Geary, the third of the Kansas Governors,--a period in which
the ravages of the marauders were continued, but under meliorated circumstances. The great
uprising of the Northern masses, in the Presidential election, had impressed upon the most
desperate of the Pro-Slavery faction the necessity of a restrained and moderated zeal. Geary
went to the Territory with some desire to deal justly with all parties. He fancied, from the
promises made to him, that he would be sustained in this honorable course by the President.
It was no part of his conception of his task, that he should be called upon to screen assassins,
to justify perjury. But he had reckoned without knowledge of what he had undertaken. He was
soon involved with the self-styled judiciary of Kansas, whose especial favorites were the promoters
of outrage; his correspondence was intercepted, his plans thwarted, his motives aspersed, his
life menaced; and he resigned his thankless charge, in a feeling of profound contempt and bitter
disappointment,--of contempt for the restless knot of villains who circumvented all conciliatory
action, and of disappointment towards superiors at Washington who betrayed their promises of
countenance and support.

With the advent of Mr. Buchanan to the Presidency a new era was expected, because a new era
had been plainly prescribed by the entire course and spirit of the Presidential campaign. All
through that heated and violent contest, it was loudly promised on one side, as it was loudly
demanded on the other, that the affairs of Kansas should be honestly and equitably administered.
As the time had then come, in the progress of population, when the Territory might be considered
competent to determine its political institutions,--the period of its immaturity and pupilage
being past,--the election turned upon the single issue of Justice to Kansas. Mr. Buchanan and
his party,--their conventions, their orators, and their newspapers,--in order to quell the
storm of indignation swelling the Northern heart, were voluble in their pledges of a fair field
for a fair settlement of all its difficulties. In the name of Popular Sovereignty,--or of the
indisputable right of every people, that is a people, to determine its political constitution
for itself,--they achieved a hard-won success. On no other ground could they have met the gallant
charge of their opponents, and on no other ground did they retain their hold of the popular
support. In his inaugural address, Mr. Buchanan foreshadowed a complete and final adjustment
of every element of discord. He selected, for the accomplishment of his policy, a statesman
of national reputation, experienced in politics, skilful in administration, and of well-known
principles and proclivities in the practical affairs of government. Mr. Walker accepted the
place of Territorial Governor, under the most urgent entreaties, and on repeated and distinct
pledges on the part of the President that the organization of Kansas as a State should be unfettered
and free. His personal sympathies were strongly on the side of the party which had so long
ruled with truculent hand in the affairs of the Territory; but he was none the less resolved
that the fairly ascertained majority should have its way.

Under assurances to that effect, the Free-State men, for the first time since the great original
fraud which had disfranchised them, consented to enter into an electoral contest with their
foes and oppressors. The result was the return of a Free-State delegate to Congress, and a
Free-State legislature, by a majority which, after the rejection of a series of patent and
wretched frauds, was more than ten to one; and yet the desperate game of conquest and usurpation
was not closed. For, in the mean time, a convention of delegates to frame a State Constitution
had been summoned to assemble at Lecompton. It was called by the old spurious legislature,
which represented Missouri, and not Kansas; it was called by a legislature, which, even if
not spurious, had no authority for making such a call; it was called under provisions for a
census and registry of voters which in more than half the Territory were not complied with;
and it was elected by a small proportion of a small minority, the Free-State men and others
refusing to enter into a contest under proceedings unauthorized at best, and as they believed
illegal. Let it be added, also, that a large number of its members were pledged to submit the
result of their doings to a vote of the people,--according to what Mr. Buchanan, in his instructions
to Governor Walker, and Governor Walker himself, on the strength of those instructions, had
proclaimed as the policy of "the party."

This Convention, in the prosecution of its gratuitous task, devised the scheme of a Constitution
wholly in the interest of its members and of the meagre minority they represented,--and so
objectionable in many respects, that not one in twenty of the voters of the Territory, as Governor
Walker informed the writer of this, could or would approve it. Recognizing Slavery as an existing
fact, and perpetuating it in every event, it yet purported to submit the question of Slavery
to a determining vote of the people. This was, however, a mere pretence; for the method proposed
for getting at the sense of the people was nothing but a pitiful juggle, according to which
no one could vote on the Slavery question who did not at the same time vote for the Constitution.
No alternative or discretion was allowed to the citizens whose Constitution it purported to
be; if they voted at all on the vast variety of subjects usually embraced in an organic law,
they must vote in favor of the measures concocted by the Convention. The entire conduct of
the election and the final adjudication of the returns, moreover, were taken out of the hands
of the officers, and from under the operation of the laws, already established by the Territorial
authorities, to be vested exclusively in one of the Convention's own creatures,--a reckless
and unprincipled politician, whose whole previous career had been an offence and a nuisance
to the majority of the inhabitants. Had the Convention been legitimately called and legitimately
chosen, this audacious abrogation of the Territorial laws and of the functions of the Territorial
officers would in itself have been sufficient to vitiate its authority; but being neither legitimately
called, nor legitimately chosen, and outraging the sentiments of nineteen twentieths of the
community, the illegal election provided for can be regarded only as the crowning atrocity
of the long series of atrocities to which Kansas has been subjected.

The most surprising thing, however, could anything surprise us in these Kansas proceedings,
is, that the President, eating all his former promises, adopts the Lecompton Convention as
a legitimate body, and commends its swindling mode of submission as a "fair" test of the popular
will! Yet, it is sad to say, this is only following up the line of precedents established from
the beginning. The plot against the freedom of Kansas was conceived in a Congressional breach
of faith; it was inaugurated by invasion, bloodshed, and civil war; it was prosecuted for two
years through a series of unexampled violences; and it would be strange, if it had not been
consummated at Lecompton and Washington by a series of corresponding frauds. It seems to have
been impossible to touch the business without perpetrating some iniquity, great or small; and
Mr. Buchanan, cautious, circumspect, timorous, as he is, tumbles into the fatal circle headlong.

And how do we know all this? Upon what kind and degree of evidence do we rest these heavy accusations?
Upon the hasty opinions of those who are unfriendly to the principles and purposes of the dominant
party? Not at all; but upon the voluntary confessions of the distinguished and chosen agents
of that party, these agents being themselves eyewitnesses of the facts to which they testify.
For proof of the original invasion and usurpation, with all its frauds and outrages, we appeal
to the testimony of Governor Reeder; for proof of the continued ravages and persistent malignity
of the border ruffians, we appeal to the testimony of Governor Geary; and for proof of the
illegal and swindling character of the late Constitutional movement, we appeal to Governor
Walker;--all these witnesses being original friends of the Kansas-Nebraska bill and policy;
all the original coadjutors of the Slave Power; all its carefully selected instruments; all
strongly prejudiced at the outset against the cause and the men of the Free-State Party; and
yet, each one of them, as soon as he has fairly entered the field of his operations, offering
such loud rebuke of the plans and projects of his own party as to provoke his speedy removal!--no
strength of party attachment, no pliability of conscience, no hope of future favor, no dread
of instant punishment, being sufficient to prevent him from turning against his own masters
and colleagues! Even the Senators of the party catch the spirit of revolt; and the very godfather
of the Kansas scheme,--its most efficient advocate,--the leading and organizing mind of it,--has
become the strongest opponent and bitterest denouncer of the policy which directs its execution.

In this view of the case, may we not ask whether this base and cruel attempt at subduing Kansas
has not gone far enough? Have not the circumstances shown that it is as impracticable as it
is base and cruel? Or are we to see the despotism of the New World as insanely obstinate as
the despotisms of the Old? Is there no warning, no instruction, to be derived from the examples
of those older nations? An eloquent historian has recently depicted for us, in scenes which
the memory can never lose, the mad attempts of the House of Stuart to Romanize England, to
the loss of the most magnificent dominion the world ever saw; and another historian, scarcely
less eloquent, has drawn a series of fearfully interesting pictures of the stern efforts of
the Spaniards to impose a detested State and a more detested Church upon the burghers of the
Netherlands. The spirit of James II., and the spirit of Philip II., was the same spirit which
is now striving to force Slavery and Slave Law upon Kansas; and though the field of battle
is narrower, and the scene less conspicuous, the consequences of the struggle are hardly of
less moment. Kansas is the future seat of empire; she will yet give tone and law to the entire
West; and they who are fighting there, in behalf of humanity and justice, do not fight for
themselves alone, but for a large posterity.

       *       *       *       *       *

SONNET.

  The brave old Poets sing of nobler themes
  Than the weak griefs which haunt men's coward souls.
  The torrent of their lusty music rolls
  Not through dark valleys of distempered dreams,
  But murmurous pastures lit by sunny streams;
  Or, rushing from some mountain height of Thought,
  Swells to strange music, that our minds have sought
  Vainly to gather from the doubtful gleams
  Of our more gross perceptions. Oh, their strains
  Nerve and ennoble Manhood!--no shrill cry,
  Set to a treble, tells of querulous woe;
  Yet numbers deep-voiced as the mighty Main's
  Merge in the ringdove's plaining, or the sigh
  Of lovers whispering where sweet streamlets flow.

ART.

THE BRITISH GALLERY IN NEW YORK.

To speak of English Art was, ten years ago, to speak of something formless, chaotic, indeed,
so far as any order or organization of principles was concerned,--a mass of individual results,
felt out, often, under the most glorious artistic inspiration, but much oftener the expression
of merely ignorant whim, or still more empty academic knowledge,--a waste of uncultivated,
unpruned brushwood, with here and there a solitary tree towering into unapproachable and inexplicable
symmetry and beauty. Hogarth, Gainsborough, and Turner are great names in Art-history; but
to deduce their development from the English culture of Art, one must use the same processes
as in proving Cromwell to have been called up by the loyalty of Englishmen. They towered the
higher from contempt for the abasement around them. If there was greatness in measure in English
Art, it was greatness subjected to tradition and conventionalism. The three artists we have
just named were the only great freemen, in the realm of Art England had known down to the close
of the first half of the nineteenth century; and of these, Turner alone has left his impress
on the Art succeeding his.

With the commencement of the present half-century there began a systematic movement in revolt
from the degradation of Art in England, which, unfortunately, so far as significance was concerned,
assumed the name of Pre-Raphaelitism. It extended itself rapidly, absorbing most of the young
painters of any force or earnestness, and attracting some who already held high places in public
esteem. Being something new, it was sure of its full measure of derision while it was considered
unimportant, and of bitter and violent antagonism when it became evident that it was strong
enough to make its way. This hostility, beaten down for the moment by the rhetoric of Ruskin
and the inherent earnestness of the new Art, is, however, as sure to prevail again as the English
character is at once conservative of old forms, reverential of authorities, and subject to
enthusiasms for new things, whose very extravagance tends to reaction. If Pre-Raphaelitism
now holds its own in England, it is simply because it is neither thoroughly understood nor
completely defined. It is an absolutely revolutionary movement, and must, therefore, be rejected
by the English mind when seen as such,--and this all the more certainly and speedily because
Ruskin with his imaginative enthusiasm has raised it to a higher position than it really deserves
at present. That cause is unfortunate which retains as its advocate one whose rhetoric persuades
all, while his logic convinces none; and the too readily believing converts of his enthusiasm
and splendid diction, their sympathetic fire abated, revert with an implacable bitterness to
their former traditions. With all our respect for Ruskin, we think that he has asserted many
things, but proved next to nothing. He has utterly misunderstood and misstated Pre-Raphaelitism,
which will thus be one day the weaker for his support.

But, pending this inevitable decline in favor at home, Pre-Raphaelitism colonizes. During the
past year, some lovers of Art in England organized an association, having as its purpose the
introduction of English Art to the American public,--partly, it was to be expected, with the
view of opening this El Dorado to the English painter, but still more with the desire to extend
the knowledge of what was to them a new and important revelation of Art. In its inception the
plan was almost exclusively Pre-Raphaelite, but extended itself, on after-consideration, so
far as to admit the worthiest artists of the conventional stamp. We have the first fruits of
the undertaking in an exhibition which has achieved a success in New York, and which will probably
visit the principal cities of the Union before its return home in the spring to make way for
a second which will open in the autumn.

It is not as a collection of pictures merely that we purpose to notice this exhibition. Out
of nearly four hundred pictures, the great proportion are mere conventionalisms,--many of them
choice, but most of them in no wise to be compared with the pictures of the same class by French
and German painters, since neither just drawing nor impressive color redeems their inanity
of conception. There are some curious water-color drawings by Lance, remarkable mainly as forcibly
painted, some exquisite color-pieces by William Hunt, and a number of fine examples of the
matter-of-fact common-place which forms the great mass of pictures in the London exhibitions.
Two drawings deserve especial, though brief, notice; one a coast bit by Copley Fielding,--a
sultry, hazy afternoon on the seashore, where sea and sky, distance and foreground, are fused
into one golden, slumberous silence, in which neither wave laps nor breeze fans, and only the
blinding sun moves, sinking slowly down to where heaven and ocean mingle again in a happy dream
of their old unity before the waters under the firmament were divided from the waters above
the firmament, and the stranded ships lie with sails drooping and listless on a beach from
which the last tide seems to have ebbed, leaving the ooze glistening and gleaming in the sunlight,--a
picture of rare sentiment and artistic refinement;--the other is a waterfall by Nesfield,--a
dreamy, careless, wayward plunge of waters over ledge after ledge of massive rock, the merry
cascade enveloping itself in a robe of spray and mist, on the skirt of which flashes the faintest
vision of a rainbow, which wavers and flits, almost, as you look at it, while the jets of foam
plash up from the pool at the foot of the fall, a tranquil pause of the waters in a depth of
uncertain blue, in which a suggestion of emerald flashes, and from which they dance on in less
frantic mood over the brown and water-worn boulders to follow their further whims; everything
that is most charming and spirituelle in the water-fall is given, and with a delicacy of color
and subtilty of execution fitting the subject. These are not the only good drawings, but there
is in them a simplicity and singleness of purpose, a total subordination of all minor matters
to the great impression, which makes them points of poetic value in the collection. There are
some drawings by Finch, scarcely less noticeable for their rendering of solemn twilight, tender
and touching as the memory of a loved one long dead. The water-color representation is, indeed,
complete and interesting; but we have only present use with five of these drawings, by Turner,
and from different stages of his progress.

Ruskin, in his pamphlet on Pre-Raphaelitism, has drawn such a comparison between Turner and
the Pre-Raphaelites as to make them only different manifestations of the same spirit in Art.
Nothing, it seems to us, could be more mistaken than this; for, in all that concerns either
the end of Art or its paths of approach, its purposes or its methods, Turner and the Pre-Raphaelites
are diametrically opposed. Turner was intensely subjective,--the Pre-Raphaelites are as intensely
objective. There is no evidence whatever in Turner's works that he ever made the slightest
attempt to reproduce Nature in such guise as the Pre-Raphaelites paint her in; on the contrary,
the early drawings of Turner are as inattentive to absolute truth of detail as they could well
be. His course of study was one of memory. He commenced by expressing in his drawing such palpable
facts and truths as were most strongly retained, and in which he conveyed the great impression
of the scene, with the most complete indifference to all facts not essential to the telling
of his story. From this, as his memory grew stronger and his perception more minute and comprehensive,
he widened his circle of ideas and facts, always working from feeling rather than from what
Nature set before him. His mind thus sifting his perceptions, retaining always only those which
constituted the essential features of the impression, and with a distinctness proportioned
to their relative importance, there necessarily resulted a subjective unity like that of an
absolute creation. The Pre-Raphaelites, on the other hand, endeavor to paint everything that
they see just as they see it; and doing this without permitting the slightest liberty of choice
to their feeling, where they have feeling, their Art is, of course, in all its early stages,
destitute of that singleness of purpose which marked Turner's works from the beginning. Turner
felt an emotion before Nature, and used the objects from which he had received the emotion
as symbols to convey it again;--the Pre-Raphaelites look at Nature as full of beautiful facts,
and, like children amid the flowers, they gather their hands full, "indifferent of worst or
best," and when their hands are full, crowd their laps and bosoms, and even drop some already
picked, to make room for others which beckon from their stems,--insatiable with beauty. This
is delightful,--but childlike, nevertheless. Turner was, above all, an artist; with him Art
stood first, facts secondary;--with the Pre-Raphaelites it is the reverse; it is far less important
to them that their facts should be broadly stated and in keeping in their pictures, than that
they should be there and comprehensible. To him a fact that was out of keeping was a nuisance,
and he treated it as such; while any falsehood that was in keeping was as unhesitatingly admitted,
if he needed it to strengthen the impression of his picture. Turner would put a rainbow by
the side of the sun, if he wanted one there;--a Pre-Raphaelite would paint with a stop-watch,
to get the rainbow in the right place. In brief, Turner's was the purely subjective method
of study, a method fatal to any artist of the opposite quality of mind;--that of the Pre-Raphaelites
is the purely objective, absolutely enslaving to a subjective artist, and no critic capable
of following out the first principles of Art to logical deductions could confound the two.
The one leads to a sentimental, the other to a philosophic Art; and the only advice to be given
to an artist as to his choice of method is, that, until he knows that he can trust himself
in the liberty of the subjective, he had better remain in the discipline of the objective.
The fascination of the former, once felt, forbids all return to the latter. If he be happy
in the Pre-Raphaelite fidelity, let him thank the Muse and tempt her no farther.

There can be no more valuable lesson in Art given than that series of Turner drawings in the
British collection, both as concerns its progression in the individual and those subtile analogies
between painting (color) and music,--analogies often hinted at, but never, that we are aware,
fully followed out. Color bears the same relation to form that sound does to language. If a
painter sit down before Nature and accurately match all her tints, we have an absolute but
prosaic rendering of her; and the analogy to this in music would be found in a passage of ordinary
conversational language written down, with its inflections and pauses recorded in musical signs.
Both are transcripts of Nature, but neither is in any way poetic, or, strictly speaking, artistic;
we cannot, by any addition or refinement, make them so. Now mark that in the two early drawings
of Turner we have white and black with only the slightest possible suggestion of blue in the
distance;--the corresponding form in language is verse, with its measure of time for measure
of space, and just so much inflection of voice as these drawings have of tint,--enough not
to be absolutely monotonous. We have in both cases left the idea of mere imitation of Nature,
and have entered on Art. Verse grows naturally into music by simple increase of the range of
inflection, as Turner's color will grow more melodic and finally harmonic. And in thus beginning
Turner has placed his works above the level of prosaic painting of Nature, just as verse is
placed above prose by the unanimous consent of mankind. From these simple presages of Art we
may diverge and follow his development as a poet by his engravings, without ever making reference
to him as a colorist. But beside being a poet, he was a great color-composer. If, leaving poetry
as recited, we take the ballad, or poetry made fully melodic, we have the single voice, passing
through measured inflections and with measured pauses. Correspondingly, the next in the series
of Turner drawings, the "Aysgarth Force," shows no attempt to give the real color of Nature,
but a single color governing the whole drawing, a golden brown passing in shadow into its exact
negative. There is an absolute tint, full, and inflected through every shade of its tones to
the bottom of the scale. The strict analogy is broken in this case by a dash of delicate gray-blue
in the sky and gray-red in the figures, the slightest possible accompaniment to his golden-brown
melody; but these were not needed, and we find earlier drawings which adhere to the strict
monochrome. In the drawing next in date, the "Hastings from the Sea," we have the further step
from monochrome to polychrome; we have the distinct trio, the golden yellow in the sky, the
blue in the sea, and the red in the figures in the boats,--as in a vocal trio we have the only
three possible musical sounds of the human voice, the soprano, the basso, and the falsetto
of the child's voice. All these colors are distinctly asserted and perfectly harmonized in
a most exquisite play of tints, but it is still no more like Nature than the trio in "I Puritani"
is like conversation. Turner never dreamed of painting like Nature, and no sane man ever saw
or can see, in this world, Nature in the colors in which he has painted her, any more than
he will find men conducting business in operatic notes.

One step farther, and we leave the analogy. In the "Swiss Valley," one of his last works, we
are from the first conscious that his harmonies have run away with his theme. In Ole Bull's
"Niagara" we have almost as much of matter-of-fact Nature as in Turner's "Swiss Valley." The
eye untrained by study of Turner's works finds nothing but a blaze of color with no intelligible
object, just as we have, in opera, music of which the words are inaudible;--both are there
for practised ear and eye, but in neither case as of primary importance. Turner has even gone
farther, and given us pictures of pure color, as in the illustration of Goethe's theory of
colors,--a fantasie of the palette. And why shall Turner not orchestrate color as well as Verdi
sound? why not give us his synchromies as well as Beethoven his symphonies? You prefer common
sense,--Harding and Fripp, Stanfield and Creswick? Well, suppose you like better to hear some
familiar voice talking of past times than to hear "Robert le Diable" ever so well sung, or
Hawthorne's prose better than Browning's verse,--it proves nothing, save that you do not care
for music and poetry so well as some others do.

But after all, Turner was one of the old school of artists. Claude was the first landscape
painter of the line, Turner the last; subjective poets both,--the one a child, the other a
mighty man. But the poets no longer govern the world as in times past; they give place to the
philosophers. The race is no longer content with its inspirations and emotions, but must see
and understand. The old school of Art was one of sentiment, the new is one of fact; and out
of that English mind from whose seeming common-place level of untrained, unschooled intellect
have burst so many of the loftiest souls the world has known,--from that mind more inspired
in its want of academic greatness, more self-educated in its wild liberty, than the best-trained
nations of Europe, this new school has fittingly had its origin.

We speak of it as a School, though yet in its rudiments, because it has a distinctive character,
a real purpose,--and because it is the embodiment of the new-age spirit of truth-seeking, of
the spirit of science, rather than that of song. Among the pictures contributed to the English
exhibition by the Pre-Raphaelites, there are very few which do not convey the distinct impression
of a determined effort to realize certain truths. There are few which succeed entirely; but
this is so far from astonishing, that we have only to think that the oldest of these artists
has hardly passed his first decade of recognized artistic existence, and that their aims are
new in Art, to wonder that so much of fresh and subtile truth is given. There are two respects
in which nearly all the works of the school agree, and which have come to be regarded by superficial
students of Art as its characteristics, namely, that they are very deficient in drawing and
devoid of grace. Both deficiencies are such as might have been expected from the circumstances.
Young men filled with earnestness and enthusiasm, and with an artistic purpose full in view,
will spend little time in acquiring academic excellences, or trouble themselves much with methods
or styles of drawing. They dash at once to their purpose, and let technical excellence follow,
as it ought, in the train of the idea of their work. Of course they do not compare, as draughtsmen
and technists, with men who have spent years in getting a knowledge of the proportions of the
human figure, and the best methods of applying color; but, on the other hand, they are safe
from that most alluring and fatal course of study which makes the subject only a lay figure
to display artistic capacity on. Of all the pictures of the school, in the collection of which
we speak, there is but one of academic excellence in drawing,--the "King Lear" of Ford Madox
Brown. All the others have errors, and some of them to a ludicrous degree; but wherever refined
drawing is needed to convey the idea of the picture, no school can furnish drawing more subtile
and expressive. The head of the "Light of the World" is worthy in this respect to be placed
beside Raphael and Da Vinci; and the "Ophelia" of Hughes, though inexcusably incorrect in the
figure, has a refinement of drawing in the face, and especially in the lines of the open, chanting
mouth, which no draughtsman of the French school can equal. It is where the idea guides the
hand that the Pre-Raphaelites are triumphant; everywhere else they fail. But this is a fault
which will correct itself as they learn the significance and value of things they do not now
understand. They paint well that which they love, and devotion grows and widens its sphere
the longer it endures, taking in, little by little, all things which bear relation to the thought
or thing it clings to; and the man who draws because he has something to tell, and draws that
well, is certain of finally drawing all things well. This very deficiency of Pre-Raphaelitism,
then, points to its true excellence, and indicates that singleness of purpose which is an element
in all true Art. The want of grace, which is made almost a synonyme with Pre-Raphaelitism,
has its origin in the same resolute clinging to truth as the artist comprehends it, and uncompromising
determination to express it as perfectly as he has the power,--a feeling which never permits
him to think whether his work be graceful, but whether it be just; so that his tremulous and
almost fearful conscientiousness--tremulous with desire to see all, and fearful lest some line
should wander by a hair's breadth from its fullest expressiveness--makes him lose sight entirely
of grace and repose. No form that has the appearance of being painfully drawn can ever be a
graceful one; and so the Pre-Raphaelite, until he has something of a master's facility and
decision, can never be graceful. The artist who prefers grace to truth will never be remarkable
either for grace or truth, while the one who clings to truth at all sacrifices will finally
reach the expression of the highest degree of beauty which his soul is capable of conceiving;
for the lines of highest beauty and supremest truth are coincident. The Ideal meets the Actual
finally in the Real.

If there be one point of feeling in which the Pre-Raphaelites can be said to be more than in
all others antagonistic to the schools of painting which preceded them, it would be that indicated
by this distinction,--that the new school is one which in all cases places truth before beauty,
while the old esteems beauty above truth. The tendency of the one is towards a severe and truth-seeking
Art, one in all its characteristics essentially religious in the highest sense of the term,
holding truth dearer than all success in popular estimation, or than all attractions of external
beauty, reverent, self-forgetting, and humble before Nature; that of the other is towards an
Art Epicurean and atheistic, holding the truth as something to be used or neglected at its
pleasure, and of no more value than falsehood which is equally beautiful,--making Nature, indeed,
something for weak men to lean on and for superstitious men to be enslaved by. This distinction
is radical; it cuts the world of Art, as the equator does the earth, with an unswerving line,
on one side or the other of which every work of Art falls, and which permits no neutral ground,
no chance of compromise;--he who is not for the truth is against it. We will not be so illiberal
as to say that Art lies only on one side of this line; to do so were to shut out works which
have given us exceeding delight;--so neither could we exclude Epicurus and his philosophy from
the company of doers of good;--but the distinction is as inexorable as the line Christ drew
between his and those not his; it lies not in the product, which may be mixed good and evil,
but in the motive, which is indivisible.

Pre-Raphaelitism must take its position in the world as the beginning of a new Art,--new in
motive, new in methods, and new in the forms it puts on. To like it or to dislike it is a matter
of mental constitution. The only mistake men can make about it is to consider it as a mature
expression of the spirit which animates it. Not one, probably not two or three generations,
perhaps not so many centuries, will see it in its full growth. It is a childhood of Art, but
a childhood of so huge a portent that its maturity may well call out an expectation of awe.
In all its characteristics it is childlike,--in its intensity, its humility, its untutored
expressiveness, its marvellous instincts of truth, and in its very profuseness of giving,--filling
its caskets with an unchoosing lavishness of pearl and pebble, rose and may-weed, all treasures
alike to its newly opened eyes, all so beautiful that there can scarcely be choice among them.

To suppose that a revolution so complete as this could take place without a bitter opposition
would be an hypothesis without any justification in the world's experience; for, be it in whatever
sphere or form, when a revolution comes, it offends all that is conservative and reverential
of tradition in the minds of men, and arouses an apparently inexplicable hostility, the bitterness
of which is not at all proportionate to the interest felt by the individual in the subject
of the reform, but to his constitutional antipathy to all reform, to all agitation. The conservative
at heart hates the reformer because he agitates, not because he disturbs him personally. This
is clearly seen in the hostility with which the new Art has been met in England, where conservatism
has built its strongest batteries in the way of invading reform. For the moment, the English
mind, bending in a surprised deference to the stormy assault of the enthusiasts of the new
school, partly carried away by its characteristic admiration of the heroism of their attack
and the fiery eloquence of their champion, Ruskin, and perhaps not quite assured of its final
effect, forgets to unmask its terrible artillery. But to upset the almost immovable English
conservatism, to teach the nation new ways of thought and feeling, in a generation! Cromwell
could not do it; and this wave of reform that now surges up against those prejudices, more
immovable than the white cliffs of Albion, will break and mingle with the heaving sea again,
as did that of the republicanism of the Commonwealth, whose Protector never sat in his seat
of government more firmly than Ruskin now holds the protectorate of Art in England. When political
reform moved off to American wildernesses for the life it could not preserve in England, it
but marked the course reform in Art must follow. The apparent ascendency which it has obtained
over the old system will as certainly turn out to be temporary as there is logic in history;
because an Art, like a political system, to govern a nation, must be in accordance with its
character as a nation,--must, in fact, be the outgrowth of it. The only unfailing line of kings
and protectors is the people; with them is no interregnum; and when the English people become
fitted by intellectual and moral progress to be protectors of a new and living Art, it will
return to them just as surely as republicanism will one day return from its exile,--

  "And all their lands restored to them again,
  That were with it exiled."

The philosophic Art will find a soil free from Art-prejudices and open to all seeds of truth;
it will find quiet and liberty to grow, not without enemies or struggles, but with no enemies
that threaten its safety, nor struggles greater than will strengthen it. The appreciation and
frank acceptance it has met on its first appearance here, the number of earnest and intelligent
adherents it has already found, are more than its warmest friends hoped for so soon. But in
England, while its appreciating admirers will remain adherents to its principles, it will pass
out of existence as an independent form of Art, and the elements of good in it will mingle
with the Art of the nation, as a leaven of nonconformity and radicalism, breeding agitations
enough to keep stagnation away and to secure a steady and irresistible progress. Its truest
devotees will remain in principle what they are, losing gradually the external characteristics
of the school as it is now known,--while the great mass of its disciples, unthinking, impulsive,
will sink back into the ranks of the old school, carrying with them the strength they have
acquired by the severe training of the system, so that the whole of English Art will be the
better for Pre-Raphaelitism. But with Ruskin's influence ceases the Commonwealth of Art; for
Ruskin governs, not represents, English feeling,--governs with a tyranny as absolute, an authority
as unquestioned, as did Oliver Cromwell.

Of the men now enlisted in the reform, few are of very great value individually. Millais will
probably be the first important recusant. He is a man of quick growth, and his day of power
is already past; the reaction will find in him an ally of name, but he has no real greatness.
William Holman Hunt and Dante Rosetti are great imaginative artists, and will leave their impress
on the age. Ford Madox Brown, as a rational, earnest painter, holds a noble and manly position.
But then we have done with great names. Much seed has sprung up on stony ground; but, having
little soil, when the sun shines, it will die. The slow growth is the sure one.

       *       *       *       *       *

LITERARY NOTICES. 1857.

Comic Histories have never been to our taste. The late Mr. Gilbert à Beckett, we always thought,
might have employed his vis comica, or force of fun, better than in linking ludicrous images
and incongruous associations with the heroes of ancient and modern times. The department of
Comic Biography, we believe, has received few contributions, if any, from the frolic quills
of wicked wags. The cure, however, of this defect in our literature, if any there be, may be
looked upon as begun in the work whose title stands at the head of this notice. The author,
indeed, had not the settled purpose of the facetious writers we have just dispraised, of making
game of the subject of his book, no more than he has the wit and cleverness which half redeem
their naughtinesses. The absence of these latter qualities is supplied in his case by the self-complacent
good faith in which he puts forth his monstrous assumptions and the stolid assurance with which
he maintains them. But the effect of his labors, as of theirs, is to throw an atmosphere of
ludicrous ideas around the memory of a great man, painful to all persons of good taste and
correct feelings.

Filial piety is a virtue to which much should be forgiven. And the son of such a father as
Alexander Hamilton might well be pardoned for even an undue estimate of his services, if it
were kept within the decent bounds of moderate exaggeration. But when he undertakes to make
his father the incarnation of the Revolution and of the Republic, and to concentrate all the
glories of that heroic age in him as the nucleus from which they radiate, he must pardon us,
if we think, that, by long contemplation of the object of his filial admiration, his mental
sight has become morbid and distorted, and sees things which are not to be seen. Beginning
his book with the assumption that Hamilton was the first to conceive the idea, of "the Union
of the People of the United States,"--an assumption which we can by no means admit, though
supported (as we learn from a foot note) by the opinion of Mr. George Ticknor Curtis,--the
author proceeds "to trace in his life and writings the history of the origin and, early policy
of this GREAT REPUBLIC." Through the whole volume, "THE REPUBLIC" stands rubric over the left
hand page, and "HAMILTON" over the right, and the identity of the two is sought to be established
from the beginning to the end. Now, deep as is the sense we entertain of the services of Hamilton
to his country, and scarcely less than filial as is the veneration we have been taught from
our earliest days to feel for his memory, we must pronounce this pretension to be as absurd
and futile in itself as it is unjust and ungenerous to the other great men of that pregnant period.

We do not know whether or not Mr. John C. Hamilton is of opinion, that, had his illustrious
father lived and died a trader in the island of Nevis, the American Revolution would never
have taken place, nor the American Republic been founded; but he plainly considers that the
great contest began to assume its most momentous gravity from the time Hamilton first entered
upon the scene, as an haranguer at popular meetings in New York, as a writer on the earnest
topics of the day, as a spectator of the broadside fired by the Asia on the Battery, as a captain
of artillery at White Plains, and especially as the aide-de-camp and secretary of Washington.
This part of the history of Hamilton, and particularly the testimony about his selection by
Washington for this great confidence when scarcely twenty years of age, bears to his eminent
qualities, one would think, honor enough to satisfy the most pious of sons. But from this moment,
according to the innuendoes, if not the broad assertion of Mr. Hamilton, Washington was chiefly
of use to sign the letters and papers prepared by his military secretary, and to carry out
the plans he had conceived. On the theatre of the world's history, from this time forth, Washington
is to be presented, like Mr. Punch on the ledge of his show-box, squeaking and jerking as the
strings are pulled from below by the hand of his boy-aide-de-camp. He writes letters to Congress,
to all and singular the American Generals, to the British Generals, to the Governors of States,
and to all whom it may concern, "over the signature of Washington," (which detestable Americanism
Mr. Hamilton invariably uses,) the whole credit of the correspondence being coolly passed over
to the account of the secretary! That Hamilton did his duty excellently well there is no question,
but it was a purely ministerial one. He furnished the words and the sentences, but Washington
breathed into them the breath of their life. As well might the confidential clerk of Mr. John
Jacob Astor claim his estate, in virtue of having written, under the direction of his principal,
the business letters by which it was acquired. If we are not mistaken, this Mr. Hamilton some
time since included Washington's Farewell Address in the collection of his father's works.
Perhaps Mr. Jefferson owes it to the accidents of time and distance, that the Declaration of
Independence is not reclaimed as another of Hamilton's estrays. We forbear to characterize
this attempt to transfer the credit of the correspondence of Washington from the heart to the
hand, in the terms which we think it deserves; for we apprehend the mere statement of the case
will enable every right-judging man to form a very competent opinion of it for himself.

Though we cannot conscientiously say, judging from this book, that Mr. Hamilton has inherited
the literary skill of his father, it is very clear that he is the faithful depositary of his
political antipathies. At the earliest possible moment the hereditary rancor against John Adams
bursts forth, and it bubbles up again whenever an opening occurs or can be made. His patriotism,
his temper, his manners, his courage, are all in turn made the theme of bitter, and of what
is meant for strong denunciation. His journeys from Philadelphia to Braintree, though with
the permission of Congress, are "flights"; his not taking the direct road, which would bring
him in dangerous vicinity to the enemy, is a proof of cowardice! His free expression of opinion
as to the conduct of the campaign in the Jerseys--made before the seal of success had certified
to its wisdom--was rancorous hostility to Washington, if not absolute conspiracy against him;
and so on to the end of the chapter. As this volume only brings the history of the Republic,
as contained in that of Hamilton, then in the twenty-second year of his age, to 1779, we tremble
to think of what yet awaits the Second President, as the twain in one grow together from the
gristle into the bone. What we have here we conceive to be the mere sockets of the gallows
of fifty cubits' height on which this New England Mordecai is to be hanged up as an example
to all malefactors of his class. We make no protest against this summary procedure, if the
Biographer of the Republic think it due to the memory of his father; but we would submit that
he has begun rather early in the day to bind the victim doomed to deck the feralia of his hero.

The literary execution of this book is not better than its substantial merits deserve. The
style is generally clumsy, often obscure, and not unseldom harsh and inflated. Take an instance
or two, picked out absolutely at random.--"The disaffected, who held throughout the contest
the seaboard of the State in abeyance, driven forth, would have felt in their wanderings there
would be no parley with them." p. l27. Again, "It became the policy of the Americans, while
holding the enemy in check, to draw him into separate detachments, in successive skirmishes
to profit of their superior aim and activity, and of their better knowledge of the country,
and to keep up its confidence by a system of short and gradual retreats from fastness to fastness,--from
river beyond river." p. l29.--These sentences, taken at hap-hazard from two consecutive leaves,
are not unfair specimens of the literary merits of this intrepid attempt to convert the history
of the nation, at its most critical period, into a collection of Mémoires pour servir to the
biography of General Hamilton.

