Revery then was a rest to me, now it is a labor, and a dangerous labor when too often resorted
to; good thoughts then came to assist me in my misery; now, vexatious presentiments torment
my happiness. Then the uncertainty of my future made me mistress of events. I could each day
choose a new destiny, and new adventures. My unexpected and undeserved misfortune was so complete
that I had nothing more to dread and everything to hope for, and experienced a vague feeling
of gratitude for the ultimate succor that I confidently expected.

I would pass long hours gazing from my window at a little light shining from the fourth-story
window of a distant house. What strange conjectures I made, as I silently watched the mysterious
beacon!

Sometimes, in contemplating it, I recalled the questions addressed by Childe Harold to the
tomb of Cecilia Metella, asking the cold marble if she who rested there were young and beautiful,
a dark-eyed, delicate-featured woman, whose destiny was that reserved by Heaven for those it
loves; or was she a venerable matron who had outlived her charms, her children and her kindred?

So I also questioned this solitary light:

To what distressed soul did it lend its aid? Some anxious mother watching and praying beside
her sick child, or some youthful student plunging with stern delight into the arcana of science,
to wrest from the revealing spirits of the night some luminous truth?

But while the poet questioned death and the past, I questioned the living present, and more
than once the distant beacon seemed to answer me. I even imagined that this busy light flickered
in concert with mine, and that they brightened and faded in unison.

I could only see it through a thick foliage of trees, for a large garden planted with poplars,
pines and sycamores separated the house where I had taken refuge from the tall building whence
the beacon shone for me night after night.

As I could never succeed in finding the points of the compass, I was ignorant of the exact
locality of the house, or even on what street it fronted, and knew nothing of its occupants.
But still this light was a friend; it spoke a sympathetic language to my eyes--it said: "Courage!
you do not suffer alone; behind these trees and under those stars there is one who watches,
labors, dreams." And when the night was majestic and beautiful, when the morn rose slowly in
the azure sky, like a radiant host offered by the invisible hand of God to the adoration of
the faithful who pray, lament and die by night; when these ever-new splendors dazzled my troubled
soul; when I felt myself seized with that poignant admiration which makes solitary hearts find
almost grief in joys that cannot be shared, it seemed to me that a dear voice came to calm
my excitement, and exclaimed, with fervor, "Is not the night beautiful? What happiness in enjoying
it together!"

When the nightingale, deceived by the silence of the deserted spot, and attracted by these
dark shades, became a Parisian for a few days, rejuvenating with his vernal songs the old echoes
of the city, again it seemed that the same voice whispered softly through the trembling leaves:
"He sings, come listen!"

So the sad nights glided peacefully away, comforted by these foolish reveries.

Then I invoked my dear ideal, beloved shadow, protector of every honest heart, proud dream,
a perfect choice, a jealous love sometimes making all other love impossible! Oh, my beautiful
ideal! Must I then say farewell? Now I no longer dare to invoke thee!...

But what folly! Why am I so silly as to permit the remembrance of an ideal to haunt me like
a remorse? Why do I suffer it to make me unjust towards noble and generous qualities that I
should worthily appreciate?

Do not laugh at me, Valentine, when I assure you that my greatest distress is that my lover
does not resemble in any respect my ideal, and I am provoked that I love him--I cannot deceive
myself, the contrast is striking--judge for yourself.

You may laugh if you will, but the whole secret of my distress is the contrast between these
two portraits.

My lover has handsome, intelligent blue eyes--my ideal's eyes are black, full of sadness and
fire, not the soft, troubadour eye with long drooping lids--no! My ideal's glance has none
of the languishing tenderness of romance, but is proud, powerful, penetrating, the look of
a thinker, of a great mind yielding to the influence of love, the gaze of a hero disarmed by
passion!

My lover is tall and slender--my ideal is only a head taller than myself ... Ah! I know you
are laughing at me, Valentine! Well! I sometimes laugh at myself....

My lover is frankness personified--my ideal is not a sly knave, but he is mysterious; he never
utters his thoughts, but lets you divine, or rather he speaks to a responsive sentiment in
your own bosom.

My lover is what men call "A good fellow," you are intimate with him in twenty-four hours.

My ideal is by no means "a good fellow," and although he inspires confidence and respect, you
are never at ease in his presence, there is a graceful dignity in his carriage, an imposing
gentleness in his manner, that always inspires a kind of fear, a pleasing awe.

You remember, Valentine, when we were very young girls how we were wont to ask each other,
in reading the annals of the past, what situations would have pleased us, what parts we would
have liked to play, what great emotions we would have wished to experience; and how you pityingly
laughed at my odd taste.

My dream,par excellence, was to die of fear; I never envied with you the famed heroines, the
sublime shepherdesses who saved their country. I envied the timid Esther fainting in the arms
of her women at the fierce tones of Ahasuerus, and restored to consciousness by the same voice
musically whispering the fondest words ever inspired by a royal love.

I also admired Semele, dying of fear and admiration at the frowns of a wrathful Jove, but her
least of all, because I am terrified in a thunderstorm.

Well, I am still the same--to love tremblingly is my fondest dream; I do not say, like pretty
Madame de S., that I can only be captivated by a man with the passions of a tiger and the manners
of a diplomate, I only declare that I cannot understand love without fear.

And yet my lover does not inspire me with the least fear, and against all reasoning, I mistrust
a love that so little resembles the love I imagined.

The strangest doubts trouble me. When Roger speaks to me tenderly; when he lovingly calls me
his dear Irene, I am troubled, alarmed--I feel as if I were deceiving some one, that I am not
free, that I belong to another. Oh! what foolish scruples! How little do I deserve sympathy!
You who have known me from my childhood and are interested in my happiness, will understand
and commiserate my folly, for folly I know it to be, and judge myself as severely as you would.

I have resolved to treat these wretched misgivings and childish fears as the creations of a
diseased mind, and have arranged a plan for their cure.

I will go into the country for a short time; good Madame Taverneau offers me the hospitality
of her house at Pont-de-l'Arche; she knows nothing of what has happened during the last six
months, and still believes me to be a poor young widow, forced to paint fans and screens for
her daily bread.

I am very much amused at hearing her relate my own story without imagining she is talking to
the heroine of that singular romance.

Where could she have learned about my sad situation, the minute details that I supposed no
one knew?

"A young orphan girl of noble birth, at the age of twenty compelled by misfortune to change
her name and work for her livelihood, is suddenly restored to affluence by an accident that
carried off all her relatives, an immensely rich uncle, his wife and son."

She also said my uncle detested me, which proved that she was well informed--only she adds
that the young heiress is horribly ugly, which I hope is not true!

I will go to Mme. Taverneau and again become the interesting widow of Monsieur Albert Guérin,
of the Navy.

Perilous widowhood which invited from my dear Mme. Taverneau confidences prematurely enlightening,
and which Mlle. Irene de Chateaudun had some difficulty in forgetting.

Ah! misery is a cruel emancipation! Angelic ignorance, spotless innocence of mind is a luxury
that poor young girls, even the most circumspect, cannot enjoy.

What presence of mind I had to exercise for three long years in order to sustain my part!

How often have I felt myself blush, when Mme. Taverneau would say: "Poor Albert! he must have
adored you."

How often have I had to restrain my laughter, when, in enumerating the perfections of her own
husband, she would add, with a look of pity: "It must distress you to see Charles and me together,
our love must recall your sad loss."

To these remarks I listened with marvellous self-possession; if comedy or acting of any kind
were not distasteful to me, I would make a good actress.

But now I must finish telling you of my plan. To-morrow I will set out ostensibly with my cousin,
accompanying her as far as Fontainbleau, where she is going to join her daughter, then I will
return and hide myself in my modest lodging, for a day or two, before going to Pont-de-l'Arche.

With regard to my cousin, I must say, people abuse her unjustly; she is not very tiresome,
this fat cousin of mine; I heard of nothing but her absurdities, and was warned against taking
up my abode with her and choosing her for my chaperone, as her persecutions would drive me
frantic and our life would be one continuous quarrel. I am happy to say that none of these
horrors have been realized. We understand each other perfectly, and, if I am not married next
winter, the Hotel de Langeac will still be my home.

Roger, uninformed of my departure, will be furious, which is exactly what I want, for from
his anger I expect enlightenment, and this is the test I will apply. Like all inexperienced
people, I have a theory, and this theory I will proceed to explain.

If in your analysis of love you seek sincerity, you must apply a little judicious discouragement,
for the man who loves hopefully, confidently, is an enigma.

Follow carefully my line of reasoning; it maybe complicated, laborious, but--it is convincing.

All violent love is involuntary hypocrisy.

The more ardent the lover the more artful the man.

The more one loves, the more one lies.

The reason of all this is very simple.

The first symptom of a profound passion is an all-absorbing self-abnegation. The fondest dream
of a heart really touched, is to make for the loved one the most extraordinary and difficult
sacrifice.

How hard it is to subdue the temper, or to change one's nature! yet from the moment a man loves
he is metamorphosed. If a miser, to please he will become a spendthrift, and he who feared
a shadow, learns to despise death. The corrupt Don Juan emulates the virtuous Grandison, and,
earnest in his efforts, he believes himself to be really reformed, converted, purified regenerated.

This happy transformation will last through the hopeful period. But as soon as the remodelled
pretender shall have a presentiment that his metamorphosis is unprofitable; as soon as the
implacable voice of discouragement shall have pronounced those two magic words, by which flights
are stayed, thoughts paralyzed, and hopeful hearts deadened, "Never! Impossible!" the probation
is over and the candidate returns to the old idols of graceless, dissolute nature.

The miser is shocked as he reckons the glittering gold he has wasted. The quondam hero thinks
with alarm of his borrowed valor, and turns pale at the sight of his scars.

The roué, to conceal the chagrin of discomfiture, laughs at the promises of a virtuous love,
calls himself a gay deceiver, great monster, and is once more self-complacent.

Freed from restraint, their ruling passions rush to the surface, as when the floodgates are
opened the fierce torrent sweeps over the field.

These hypocrites will feel for their beloved vices, lost and found again, the thirst, the yearning
we feel for happiness long denied us. And they will return to their old habit, with a voracious
eagerness, as the convalescent turns to food, the traveller to the spring, the exile to his
native land, the prisoner to freedom.

Then will reckless despair develop their genuine natures; then, and then only, can you judge them.

Ah! I breathe freely now that I have explained my feelings What do you think of my views on
this profound subject--discouragement in love?

I am confident that this test must sometimes meet with the most favorable results. I believe,
for example, that with Roger it will be eminently successful, for his own character is a thousand
times more attractive than the one he has assumed to attract me. He would please me better
if he were less fascinating--his only fault, if it be a fault, is his lack of seriousness.

He has travelled too much, and studied different manners and subjects too closely, to have
that power of judging character, that stock of ideas and principles without which we cannot
make for ourselves what is called a philosophy, that is, a truth of our own.

In the savage and civilized lands he traversed, he saw religions so ridiculous, morals so wanton,
points of honor so ludicrous, that he returned home with an indifference, a carelessness about
everything, which adds brilliancy to his wit, but lessens the dignity of his love.

Roger attaches importance to nothing--a bitter sorrow must teach him the seriousness of life,
that everything must not be treated jestingly. Grief and trouble are needed to restore his faith.

I hope he will be very unhappy when he hears of my inexplicable flight, and I intend returning
for the express purpose of watching his grief; nothing is easier than to pass several days
in Paris incog.

My beloved garret remains unrented, and I will there take sly pleasure in seeing for myself
how much respect is paid to my memory--I very much enjoy the novel idea of assisting at my
own absence.

But I perceive that my letter is unpardonably long; also that in confiding my troubles to you,
I have almost forgotten them; and here I recognise your noble influence, my dear Valentine;
the thought of you consoles and encourages me. Write soon, and your advice will not be thrown
away. I confess to being foolish, but am sincerely desirous of being cured of my folly. My
philosophy does not prevent my being open to conviction, and willing to sacrifice my logic
to those I love.

Kiss my godchild for me, and give her the pretty embroidered dress I send with this. I have
trimmed it with Valenciennes to my heart's content. Oh! my friend, how overjoyed I am to once
more indulge in these treasured laces, the only real charm of grandeur, the only unalloyed
gift of fortune. Fine country seats are a bore, diamonds a weight and a care, fast horses a
danger; but lace! without whose adornment no woman is properly dressed--every other privation
is supportable; but what is life without lace?

I have tried to please your rustic taste in the wagon-load of newly imported plants, one of
which is a Padwlonia (do not call it a Polonais), and is now acclimated in France; its leaves
are a yard in circumference, and it grows twenty inches a month--malicious people say it freezes
in the winter, but don't you believe the slander.

Adieu, adieu, my Valentine, write to me, a line from you is happiness.

IRENE DE CHATEAUDUN.

My address is, Madame Albert Guérin, Care Mme. Taverneau, Pont de l'Arche, Department of the Eure.

II.

ROGER DE MONBERT to M. DE MEILHAN, Pont-de-l'Arche (Eure.)

Paris, May 19th, 18--.

Dear Edgar,--It cannot be denied that friendship is the refuge of adversity--the roof that
shelters from the storm.

In my prosperous days I never wrote you. Happiness is selfish. We fear to distress a friend
who may be in sorrow, by sending him a picture of our own bliss.

I am oppressed with a double burden; your absence, and my misfortunes.

This introduction will, doubtless, impress you with the idea that I wander about Paris with
dejected visage and neglected dress. Undeceive yourself. It is one of my principles never to
expose my sacred griefs to the gaze of an unsympathetic world, that only looks to laugh.

Pity I regard as an insult to my pride: the comforter humiliates the inconsolable mourner;
besides, there are sorrows that all pretend to understand, but which none really appreciate.
It is useless, then, to enumerate one's maladies to a would-be physician; and the world is
filled with those who delight in the miseries of others; who follow the sittings of courts
and luxuriate in heart-rending pictures of man's injustice to his fellow.

I do not care to serve as a relaxation to this class of mankind, who, since the abolition of
the circus and amphitheatre, are compelled to pick up their pleasure wherever they can find
it; seeking the best places to witness the struggle of Christian fortitude with adversity.

But every civilized age has its savage manners, and, knowing this, I resemble in public the
favorite of fortune. I simulate content, and my face is radiant with deceit.

The idle and curious of the Boulevard Italien, the benches of the circus would hardly recognise
me as the gladiator struggling with an iron-clawed monster--they are all deceived.

I feel a repugnance, dear Edgar, to entertaining you with a recital of my mysterious sorrow.
I would prefer to leave you in ignorance, or let you divine them, but I explain to prevent
your friendship imagining afflictions that are not mine.

In the first place, to reassure you, my fortune has not suffered during my absence. On my return
to Paris, my agent dazzled me with the picture of my wealth.

"Happy man!" said he; "a great name, a large fortune, health that has defied the fires of the
tropics, the ice of the poles,--and only thirty!" The notary reasoned well from a notary's
stand-point. If I were to reduce my possessions to ingots, they would certainly balance a notary's
estimate of happiness; therefore, fear nothing for my fortune.

Nor must you imagine that I grieve over my political and military prospects that were lost
in the royal storm of '30, when plebeian cannon riddled the Tuilleries and shattered a senile
crown. I was only sixteen, and hardly understood the lamentations of my father, whose daily
refrain was, "My child, your future is destroyed."

A man's future lies in any honorable career. If I have left the epaulettes of my ancestors
reposing in their domestic shrine, I can bequeath to my children other decorations.

I have just returned from a ten years' campaign against all nations, bringing back a marvellous
quantity of trophies, but without causing one mother to mourn. In the light of a conqueror,
Caesar, Alexander, and Hannibal pale in comparison, and yet to a certainty my military future
could not have gained me the epaulettes of these illustrious commanders.

You would not, my dear Edgar, suppose, from the gaiety of this letter, that I had passed a
frightful night.

You shall see what becomes of life when not taken care of; when there is an unguarded moment
in the incessant duel that, forced by nature, we wage with her from the cradle to the grave.

What a long and glorious voyage I had just accomplished! What dangers I escaped! The treacherous
sea defeated by a motion of the helm! The sirens to whom I turned a deaf ear. The Circes deserted
under a baleful moon, ere the brutalizing change had come!

I returned to Paris, a man with soul so dead that his country was not dear to him--I felt guilty
of an unknown crime, but reflection reduced the enormity of the offence. Long voyages impart
to us a nameless virtue--or vice, made up of tolerance, stoicism and disdain. After having
trodden over the graveyards of all nations, it seems as if we had assisted at the funeral ceremonies
of the world, and they who survive on its surface seem like a band of adroit fugitives who
have discovered the secret of prolonging to-day's agony until to-morrow.

I walked upon the Boulevard Italien without wonder, hatred, love, joy or sorrow. On consulting
my inmost thoughts I found there an unimpassioned serenity, a something akin to ennui; I scarcely
heard the noise of the wheels, the horses--the crowd that surrounded me.

Habituated to the turmoil of those grand dead nations near the vast ruins of the desert, this
little hubbub of wearied citizens scarcely attracted my attention.

My face must have reflected the disdainful quietude of my soul.

By contemplative communion with the mute, motionless colossal faces of Egypt's and Persia's
monuments, I felt that unwittingly my countenance typified the cold imperturbable tranquillity
of their granite brows.

That evening La Favorita was played at the opera. Charming work! full of grace, passion, love.
Reaching the end of Le Pelletier street, my walk was blocked by a line of carriages coming
down Provence street; not having the patience to wait the passage of this string of vehicles,
nor being very dainty in my distinction between pavement and street, I followed in the wake
of the carriages, and as they did not conceal the façade of the opera at the end of the court,
I saw it, and said "I will go in."

I took a box below, because my family-box had changed hands, hangings and keys at least five
times in ten years, and seated myself in the background to avoid recognition, and leave undisturbed
friends who would feel in duty bound to pay fashionable court to a traveller due ten years.
I was not familiar with La Favorita, and my ear took in the new music slowly. Great scores
require of the indolent auditor a long novitiate.

While I listened indolently to the orchestra and the singers, I examined the boxes with considerable
interest, to discover what little revolutions a decade could bring about in the aristocratic
personnel of the opera. A confused noise of words and some distinct sentences reached my ear
from the neighboring boxes when the orchestra was silent. I listened involuntarily; the occupants
were not talking secrets, their conversation was in the domain of idle chat, that divides with
the libretto the attention of the habitues of the opera.

They said, "I could distinguish her in a thousand, I mistrust my sight a little, but my glass
is infallible; it is certainly Mlle. de Bressuire--a superb figure, but she spoils her beauty
by affectation."

"Your glass deceives you, my dear sir, we know Mlle. de Bressuire."

"Madame is right; it is not Mlle. That young lady at whom everybody is gazing, and who to-night
is the favorite--excuse the pun--of the opera, is a Spaniard; I saw her at the Bois de Boulogne
in M. Martinez de la Hosa's carriage. They told me her name, but I have forgotten. I never
could remember names."

"Ladies," said a young man, who noisily entered the box, "we are at last enlightened. I have
just questioned the box-keeper--she is a maid of honor to the Queen of Belgium."

"And her name?" demanded five voices.

"She has a Belgian name, unpronounceable by the box-keeper; something like Wallen, or Meulen."

"We are very much wiser."

From the general commotion it was easy to perceive that the same subject was being discussed
by the whole house, and doubtless in the same terms; for people do not vary their formulas
much on such occasions.

A strain of music recalled to the stage every eye that during the intermission had been fastened
upon one woman. I confess that I felt some interest in the episode, but, owing to my habitual
reserve, barely discovered by random and careless glances the young girl thus handed over to
the curious glances of the fashionable world. She was in a box of the first tier, and the native
grace of her attitude first riveted my attention. The cynosure of all eyes, she bore her triumph
with the ease of a woman accustomed to admiration.

To appear unconscious she assumed with charming cleverness a pose of artistic contemplation.
One would have said that she was really absorbed in the music, or that she was following the
advice of the Tuscan poet:

  "Bel ange, descendu d'un monde aérien,
  Laisse-toi regarder et ne regarde rien."

From my position I could only distinguish the outline of her figure, except by staring through
my glasses, which I regard as a polite rudeness, but she seemed to merit the homage that all
eyes looked and all voices sang.

Once she appeared in the full blaze of the gas as she leaned forward from her box, and it seemed
as if an apparition by some theatro-optical delusion approached and dazzled me.

The rapt attention of the audience, the mellow tones of the singer, the orchestral accompaniment
full of mysterious harmony, seemed to awaken the ineffable joy that love implants in the human
heart. How much weakness there is in the strength of man!

To travel for years over oceans, through deserts, among all varieties of peoples and sects;
shipwrecked, to cling with bleeding hands to sea-beaten rocks; to laugh at the storm and brave
the tiger in his lair; to be bronzed in torrid climes; to subject one's digestion to the baleful
influences of the salt seas; to study wisdom before the ruins of every portico where rhetoricians
have for three thousand years paraphrased in ten tongues the words of Solomon, "All is vanity;"
to return to one's native shores a used-up man, persuaded of the emptiness of all things save
the overhanging firmament and the never-fading stars; to scatter the fancies of too credulous
youth by a contemptuous smile, or a lesson of bitter experience, and yet, while boasting a
victory over all human fallacies and weaknesses, to be enslaved by the melody of a song, the
smile of a woman.

Life is full of hidden mysteries. I looked upon the stranger's face with a sense of danger,
so antagonistic to my previous tranquillity that I felt humiliated.

By the side of the beautiful unknown, I saw a large fan open and shut with a certain affectation,
but not until its tenth movement did I glance at its possessor. She was my nearest relative,
the Duchess de Langeac.

The situation now began to be interesting. In a moment the interlude would procure for me a
position to be envied by every one in the house. At the end of the act I left my box and made
a rapid tour of the lobby before presenting myself. The Duchess dispelled my embarrassment
by a cordial welcome. Women have a keen and supernatural perception about everything concerning
love, that is alarming.

The Duchess carelessly pronounced Mlle. de Chateaudun's name and mine, as if to be rid of the
ceremonies of introduction as soon as possible, and touching a sofa with the end of her fan, said:

"My dear Roger, it is quite evident that you have come from everywhere except from the civilized
world. I bowed to you twenty times, and you declined me the honor of a recognition. Absorbed
in the music, I suppose. La Favorita is not performed among the savages, so they remain savages.
How do you like our barytone? He has sung his aria with delicious feeling."

While the Duchess was indulging her unmeaning questions and comments, a rapid and careless
glance at Mlle. de Chateaudun explained the admiration that she commanded from the crowded
house. Were I to tell you that this young creature was a pretty, a beautiful woman, I would
feebly express my meaning, such phrases mean nothing. It would require a master hand to paint
a peerless woman, and I could not make the attempt when the bright image of Irene is now surrounded
by the gloomy shadows of an afflicted heart.

After the first exchange of insignificant words, the skirmish of a conversation, we talk as
all talk who are anxious to appear ignorant of the fact that they are gazed upon by a whole
assembly.

Concealing my agitation under a strain of light conversation, "Mademoiselle," I said, in answer
to a question, "music is to-day the necessity of the universe. France is commissioned to amuse
the world. Suppress our theatre, opera, Paris, and a settled melancholy pervades the human
family. You have no idea of the ennui that desolates the hemispheres.

"Occasionally Paris enlivens the two Indias by dethroning a king. Once Calcutta was in extremis,
it was dying of the blues; the East India company was rich but not amusing; with all its treasure
it could not buy one smile for Calcutta, so Paris sent Robert le Diable, La Muette de Portici,
a drama or two of Hugo and Dumas. Calcutta became convalescent and recovered. Its neighbor,
Chandernagore, scarcely existed then, but in 1842, when I left the Isle de Bourbon, La Favorita
was announced; it planted roses in the cheeks of the jaundiced inhabitants, and Madras, possessed
by the spleen, was exorcised by William Tell.

"Whenever a tropical city is conscious of approaching decline, she always stretches her hands
beseechingly to Paris, who responds with music, books, newspapers; and her patient springs
into new life.

"Paris does not seem to be aware of her influences. She detracts from herself; says she is
not the Paris of yesterday, the Paris of the great century; that her influence is gone, she
is in the condition of the Lower Empire.

"She builds eighty leagues of fortifications to sustain the siege of Mahomet II. She weeps
over her downfall and accuses Heaven of denying to her children of '44 the genius and talents
that characterized the statesmen and poets of her past.

"But happily the universe does not coincide with Paris; go ask it; having just come from there,
I know it."

Indulging my traveller's extravagancies laughingly, to the amusement of my fair companion,
she said:

"Truly your philosophy is of the happy school, and the burden of life must be very light when
it is so lightly borne."

"You must know, my dear Roger," said the Duchess, feigning commiseration, "that my young cousin,
Mlle. de Chateaudun, is pitiably unhappy, and you and I can weep over her lot in chorus with
orchestral accompaniment; poor child! she is the richest heiress in Paris."

"How wide you are from the mark!" said Irene, with a charming look of annoyance in the brightest
eye that ever dazzled the sober senses of man; "it is not an axiom that wealth is happiness.
The poor spread such a report, but the rich know it to be false."

Here the curtain arose, and my return to my box explained my character as the casual visitor
and not the lover. And what intentions could I have had at that moment? I cannot say.

I was attracted by the loveliness of Mlle. Chateaudun; chance gave the opportunity for studying
her charms, the fair unknown improved on acquaintance. Hers was the exquisite grace of face
and feature and winningness of manner which attracts, retains and is never to be forgotten.

From the superb tranquillity of her attitude, the intelligence of her eyes, it was easy to
infer that a wider field would bring into action the hidden treasures of a gifted nature. Over
the dazzling halo that surrounded the fair one, which left me the alternative of admiring silence
or heedless vagrancy of speech, one cloud lowered, eclipsing all her charms and bringing down
my divinity from her pedestal--Irene was an heiress!

The Duchess had clipped the wings of the angel with the phrase of a marriage-broker. An heiress!
the idea of a beautiful woman, full of poetry and love, inseparately linked to pounds, shillings
and pence!

It was a day of amnesty to men, a fête day in Paradise, when God gave to this young girl that
crown of golden hair, that seraphic brow, those eyes that purified the moral miasma of earth.
The ideal of poetry, the reality of my love!

Think of this living master-piece of the divine studio as the theme of money-changers, the
prize of the highest bidder!

Of course, my dear Edgar, I saw Mlle. de Chateaudun again and again after this memorable evening;
thanks to the facilities afforded me by my manoeuvring kinswoman, the Duchess, who worshipped
the heiress as I worshipped the woman, I could Add a useless volume of romantic details leading
you to the denouement, which you have already guessed, for you must see in me the lover of
Mlle. de Chateaudun.

I wished to give you the beginning and end of my story; what do you care for the rest, since
it is but the wearisome calendar of all lovers?--The journal of a thousand incidents as interesting
and important to two people as they are stupid and ridiculous to every one else. Each day was
one of progress; finally, we loved each other. Excuse the homely platitude in this avowal.

Irene seemed perfect; her only fault, being an heiress, was lost in the intoxication of my
love; everything was arranged, and in spite of her money I was to marry her.

I was delirious with joy, my feet spurned the earth. My bliss was the ecstasy of the blest.
My delight seemed to color the contentment of other men with gloom, and I felt like begging
pardon for being so happy. It seemed that this valley of tears, astonished that any one should
from a terrestrial paradise gaze upon its afflictions and still be happy, would revolt against me!

My dear Edgar, the smoke of hell has darkened my vision--I grope in the gloom of a terrible
mystery--Vainly do I strive to solve it, and I turn to you for aid.

Irene has left Paris! Home, street, city, all deserted! A damp, dark nothingness surrounds me!

Not an adieu! a line! a message! to console me--

Women do such things--

I have done all in my power, and attempted the impossible to find Irene, but without success.
If she only had some ground of complaint against me, how happy I would be.

A terrible thought possesses my fevered brain--she has fallen into some snare, my marvellously
beautiful Irene.

Hide my sorrows, dear Edgar, from the world as I have hidden them.

You would not have recognised the writer of this, had you seen him on the boulevard this morning.
I was a superb dandy, with the poses of a Sybarite and the smiles of a young sultan. I trod
as one in the clouds, and looked so benevolently on my fellow man that three beggars sued for
aid as if they recognised Providence in a black coat. The last observation that reached my
ear fell from the lips of an observing philosopher:

"Heavens! how happy that young man must be!"

Dear Edgar, I long to see you.

ROGER DE MONBERT.

III.

EDGAR DE MEILHAN to the PRINCE DE MONBERT, St. Dominique Street, Paris.

RICHEPORT, 20th May, 18--

No, no, I cannot console you in Paris. I will escort your grief to Smyrna, Grand Cairo, Chandernagore,
New Holland, if you wish, but I would rather be scalped alive than turn my steps towards that
fascinating city surrounded by fortifications.

Your elegy found me moderately impressible. Fortune has apparently always treated you like
a spoiled child; were your misfortunes mine I should be delighted, and in your torment I should
find a paradise. A disappearance afflicts you with agony. I was forced to beat a retreat once,
but not from creditors; my debts are things of the past. You are fled from--I am pursued; and
whatever you may say to the contrary, it is much more agreeable to be the dog than the hare.

Ah! if the beauty that I adore (this is melo-dramatic) had only conceived such a triumphant
idea! I should not be the one who--but no one knows when he is well off. This Mlle. Irene de
Chateaudun pleases me, for by this opportune and ingenious eclipse she prevents you from committing
a great absurdity. What put marriage into your head, forsooth! You who have housed with Bengal
tigers and treated the lions of Atlas as lapdogs; who have seen, like Don Caesar de Bazan,
women of every color and clime; how could you have centred your affections upon this Parisian
doll, and chained the fancies of your cosmopolitan soul to the dull, rolling wheel of domestic
and conjugal duty?

So don't swear at her; bless her with a grateful heart, put a bill of credit in your pocket,
and off we'll sail for China. We will make a hole in the famous wall, and pry into the secrets
of lacquered screens and porcelain cups. I have a strong desire to taste their swallow-nest
soup, their shark's fins served with jujube sauce, the whole washed down by small glasses of
castor oil. We will have a house painted apple-green and vermilion, presided over by a female
mandarin with no feet, circumflex eyes, and nails that serve as toothpicks. When shall I order
the post-horses?

A wise man of the Middle Empire said that we should never attempt to stem the current of events.
Life takes care of itself. The loss of your fiancée proves that you are not predestined for
matrimony, therefore do not attempt to coerce chance; let it act, for perhaps it is the pseudonym
of God.

Thanks to this very happy disappearance, your love remains young and fresh; besides, you have,
in addition to the Pleasures of Memory, the Pleasures of Hope (considered the finest work of
the poet Campbell); for there is nothing to show that your divinity has been translated to
that better world, where, however, no one seems over-anxious to go.

Let not my retreat give rise to any unfavorable imputations against my courage. Achilles, himself,
would have incontinently fled if threatened with the blessings in store for me. From what oriental
head-dresses, burnous affectedly draped, golden rings after the style of the Empress of the
Lower Empire, have I not escaped by my prudence?

But this is all an enigma to you. You are in ignorance of my story, unless some too-well-posted
Englishman hinted it to you in the temple of Elephanta. I will relate it to you by way of retaliation
for the recital of your love affair with Mlle. Irene de Chateaudun.

You have probably met that celebrated blue-stocking called the "Romantic Marquise." She is
handsome, so the painters say; and, perhaps, they are not far from right, for she is handsome
after the style of an old picture. Although young, she seems to be covered with yellow varnish,
and to walk surrounded by a frame, with a background of bitumen.

One evening I found myself with this picturesque personage at Madame de Bléry's. I was listlessly
intrenched in a corner, far from the circle of busy talkers, just sufficiently awake to be
conscious that I was asleep--a delirious condition, which I recommend to your consideration,
resembling the beginning of haschish intoxication--when by some turn in the conversation Madame
de Bléry mentioned my name and pointed me out. I was immediately awakened from my torpor and
dragged out of my corner.

