Asked on his return what wallpapers he would prefer in the house they had chosen, he asked
for brown paper so that he could draw pictures everywhere. He had by no means abandoned this
old habit, and Annie remembers an illness during which he asked for a long enough pencil to
draw on the ceiling. Their quaint little house in Edwardes Square, Kensington, lent to them
by Mr. Boore, an old friend of Frances, was close to Warwick Gardens. "I remember the house
well," wrote E. C. Bentley later, "with its garden of old trees and its general air of Georgian
peace. I remember too the splendid flaming frescoes, done in vivid crayons, of knights and
heroes and divinities with which G.K.C. embellished the outside wall at the back, beneath a
sheltering portico. I have often wondered whether the landlord charged for them as dilapidations
at the end of the tenancy."

They were only in Edwardes Square for a few months and then moved to Overstrand Mansions, Battersea,
where the rest of their London life was spent. It was here I came to know them a few years
later. As soon as they could afford it they threw drawing-room and dining-room together to
make one big room. At one end hung an Engagement board with what Father O'Connor has described
as a "loud inscription"-- LEST WE FORGET. Beside the engagements was pinned a poem by Hilaire
Belloc:

   Frances and Gilbert have a little flat
   At eighty pounds a year and cheap at that
   Where Frances who is Gilbert's only wife
   Leads an unhappy and complaining life:
   while Gilbert who is Frances' only man
   Puts up with it as gamely as he can.

The Bellocs chose life in the country much earlier than the Chestertons, and an undated letter
to Battersea threatens due reprisals in an exclusion from their country home, if the Chestertons
are not prepared to receive him in town at a late hour.

   Kings Land, Shipley, Horsham

   It will annoy you a good deal to hear that I am in town tomorrow
   Wednesday evening and that I shall appear at your Apartment at 10.45
   or 10.30 at earliest. P.M.! You are only just returned. You are
   hardly settled down. It is an intolerable nuisance. You heartily wish
   I had not mentioned it.

   Well, you see that [arrow pointing to "Telegrams, Coolham,
   Sussex"], if you wire there before One you can put me off, but if
   you do I shall melt your keys, both the exterior one which forms the
   body or form of the matter and the interior one which is the mystical
   content thereof.

   Also if you put me off I shall not have you down here ever to see
   the Oak Room, the Tapestry Room, the Green Room etc.

   Yrs,
   H.B.

Early in his Battersea life Gilbert received a note from Max Beerbohm, the great humourist,
introducing himself and suggesting a luncheon together.

   I am quite different from my writings (and so, I daresay, are you
   from yours)--so that we should not necessarily fail to hit it off.

   I, in the flesh, am modest, full of commonsense, very genial, and
   rather dull.

   What you are remains to be seen--or not to be seen--by me, according
   to your decision.

Gilbert's decision was for the meeting and an instant liking grew into a warm friendship. As
in J.D.C. days Gilbert had written verse about his friends, so now did he try to sum up an
impression, perhaps after some special talk:

   And Max's queer crystalline sense
   Lit, like a sea beneath a sea,
   Shines through a shameless impudence
   As shameless a humility.
   Or Belloc somewhat rudely roared
   But all above him when he spoke
   The immortal battle trumpets broke
   And Europe was a single sword.*

[* Unpublished fragment.]

Somewhere about this time must have occurred the incident mentioned by George Bernard Shaw
in a note which appeared in the Mark Twain Quarterly (Spring, 1937):

I cannot remember when I first met Chesterton. I was so much struck by a review of Scott's
Ivanhoe which he wrote for the Daily News in the course of his earliest notable job as feuilletonist
to that paper that I wrote to him asking who he was and where he came from, as he was evidently
a new star in literature. He was either too shy or too lazy to answer. The next thing I remember
is his lunching with us on quite intimate terms, accompanied by Belloc.

The actual first meeting, forgotten by Shaw, is remembered by Gilbert's brother-in-law, Lucian
Oldershaw. He and Gilbert had gone together to Paris where they visited Rodin, then making
a bust of Bernard Shaw. Mr. Oldershaw introduced Gilbert to G.B.S., who, Rodin's secretary
told them, had been endeavouring to explain at some length the nature of the Salvation Army,
leading up (one imagines) to an account of Major Barbara. At the end of the explanation, Rodin's
secretary remarked--to a rather apologetic Shaw--"The Master says you have not much French
but you impose yourself."

"Shaw talked Gilbert down," Mr. Oldershaw complained. That the famous man should talk more
than the beginner is hardly surprising, but all through Gilbert's life the complaint recurs
on the lips of his admirers, just as a similar complaint is made by Lockhart about Sir Walter
Scott. Chesterton, like Scott, abounded in cordial admiration of other men and women and had
a simple enjoyment in meeting them. And Chesterton was one of the few great conversationalists--perhaps
the only one--who would really rather listen than talk.

In 1901 appeared his first book of collected essays, The Defendant. The essays in it had already
appeared in The Speaker. Like all his later work it had the mixed reception of enthusiasts
who saw what he meant, and puzzled reviewers who took refuge in that blessed word "paradox."
"Paradox ought to be used," said one of these, "like onions to season the salad. Mr. Chesterton's
salad is all onions. Paradox has been defined as 'truth standing on her head to attract attention.'
Mr. Chesterton makes truth cut her throat to attract attention."

Without denying that his love of a joke led him into indefensible puns and suchlike fooleries
(though Mgr. Ronald Knox tells me he is prepared to defend all of G.K.'s puns), I think nearly
all his paradoxes were either the startling expression of an entirely neglected truth, or the
startling re-emphasis of the neglected side of a truth. Once, he said: "It is a paradox, but
it is God, and not I, who should have the credit of it." He proved his case a few years later
in the chapter of Orthodoxy called "The Paradoxes of Christianity." What it amounted to was
roughly this: paradox must be of the nature of things because of God's infinity and the limitations
of the world and of man's mind. To us limited beings God can express His idea only in fragments.
We can bring together apparent contradictions in those fragments whereby a greater truth is
suggested. If we do this in a sudden or incongruous manner we startle the unprepared and arouse
the cry of paradox. But if we will not do it we shall miss a great deal of truth.

Chesterton also saw many proverbs and old sayings as containing a truth which the people who
constantly repeated them had forgotten. The world was asleep and must be awakened. The world
had gone placidly mad and must be violently restored to sanity. That the methods he used annoyed
some is undeniable, but he did force people to think, even if they raged at him as the unaccustomed
muscles came into play.

"I believe," he said in a speech at this date, "in getting into hot water. I think it keeps
you clean." And he believed intensely in keeping out of a narrow stream of merely literary
life. To those who exalted the poet above the journalist he gave this answer:

   The poet writing his name upon a score of little pages in the
   silence of his study, may or may not have an intellectual right to
   despise the journalist: but I greatly doubt whether he would not
   morally be the better if he saw the great lights burning on through
   darkness into dawn, and heard the roar of the printing wheels
   weaving the destinies of another day. Here at least is a school of
   labour and of some rough humility, the largest work ever published
   anonymously since the great Christian cathedrals.*

[* "A Word for the Mere Journalist." Darlington North Star: February 3, 1902.]

He plunged then into the life of Fleet Street and held it his proudest boast to be a journalist.
But he had his own way of being a journalist:

   On the whole, I think I owe my success (as the millionaires say) to
   having listened respectfully and rather bashfully to the very best
   advice, given by all the best journalists who had achieved the best
   sort of success in journalism; and then going away and doing the
   exact opposite. For what they all told me was that the secret of
   success in journalism was to study the particular journal and write
   what was suitable to it. And, partly by accident and ignorance and
   partly through the real rabid certainties of youth, I cannot remember
   that I ever wrote any article that was at all suitable to any
   paper. . . . I wrote on a Nonconformist organ like the old Daily
   News and told them all about French cafés and Catholic cathedrals;
   and they loved it, because they had never heard of them before. I
   wrote on a robust Labour organ like the old Clarion and defended
   mediaeval theology and all the things their readers had never heard
   of; and their readers did not mind me a bit.*

[* Autobiography, pp. 185-6.]

Mr. Titterton, who worked also on the Daily News and came at this time to know G.K. in the
Pharos Club, says that at first he was rather shy of the other men on the staff but after a
dinner at which he was asked to speak he came to know and like them and to be at home in Fleet
Street. He liked to work amid human contact and would write his articles in a public-house
or in the club or even in the street, resting the paper against a wall.

Frank Swinnerton records* a description given him by Charles Masterman of

   how Chesterton used to sit writing his articles in a Fleet St.
   café, sampling and mixing a terrible conjunction of drinks, while
   many waiters hovered about him, partly in awe, and partly in case he
   should leave the restaurant without paying for what he had had. One
   day . . . the headwaiter approached Masterman. "Your friend," he
   whispered, admiringly, "he very clever man. He sit and laugh. And
   then he write. And then he laugh at what he write."

[* Georgian Scene, p. 94.]

He loved Fleet Street and did a good deal of drinking there. But not only there. When (in the
Autobiography) he writes of wine and song it is not Fleet Street and its taverns that come
back to his mind but "the moonstruck banquets given by Mr. Maurice Baring," the garden in Westminster
where he fenced with real swords against one more intoxicated than himself, songs shouted in
Auberon Herbert's rooms near Buckingham Palace.

After marriage Frances seems to have given up the struggle, so ardently pursued during their
engagement, to make him tidy. By a stroke of genius she decided instead to make him picturesque.
The conventional frock-coat worn so unconventionally, the silk hat crowning a mat of hair,
disappeared, and a wide-brimmed slouch hat and flowing cloak more appropriately garbed him.
This was especially good as he got fatter. He was a tall man, six foot two. As a boy he had
been thin, but now he was rapidly putting on weight. Neither he nor Cecil played games (the
tennis did not last!) but they used to go for long walks, sometimes going off together for
a couple of days at a time. Gilbert still liked to do this with Frances, but the sedentary
Daily life and the consumption of a good deal of beer did not help towards a graceful figure.
By 1903 G.K. was called a fat humourist and he was fast getting ready to be Dr. Johnson in
various pageants. By 1906--he was then thirty-two--he had become famous enough to be one of
the celebrities painted or photographed for exhibitions; and Bernard Shaw described a photo
of him by Coburn:

   Chesterton is "our Quinbus Flestrin," the young Man Mountain, a
   large abounding gigantically cherubic person who is not only large in
   body and mind beyond all decency, but seems to be growing larger as
   you look at him--"swellin' wisibly," as Tony Weller puts it. Mr.
   Coburn has represented him as flowing off the plate in the very act
   of being photographed and blurring his own outlines in the process.
   Also he has caught the Chestertonian resemblance to Balzac and
   unconsciously handled his subject as Rodin handled Balzac. You may
   call the placing of the head on the plate wrong, the focussing wrong,
   the exposure wrong if you like, but Chesterton is right and a right
   impression of Chesterton is what Mr. Coburn was driving at.

The change in his appearance G.K. celebrated in a stanza of his "Ballade of the Grotesque":

   I was light as a penny to spend,
   I was thin as an arrow to cleave,
   I could stand on a fishing-rod's end
   With composure, though on the qui vive;
   But from Time, all a-flying to thieve,
   The suns and the moons of the year,
   A different shape I receive;
   The shape is decidedly queer.

"London," said a recently arrived American, "is the most marvellously fulfilling experience.
I went to see Fleet Street this morning, and met G. K. Chesterton face to face. Wrapped in
a cloak and standing in the doorway of a pie-shop, he was composing a poem reciting it aloud
as he wrote. The most striking thing about the incident was that no one took the slightest notice."

I doubt if any writer, except Dickens, has so quickly become an institution as Chesterton.
Nor, of course, would his picturesqueness in Fleet Street or his swift success as a journalist
have accomplished this but for the vast output of books on every conceivable subject.

But before I come to the books written during those years at Battersea, a word must be said
of another element besides his journalistic contacts that was linking G.K. with a wider world
than the solely literary. We have seen that even when his religion was at its lowest point,
in the difficult Art School days, he never lost it entirely--"I hung on to religion by one
thin thread of thanks." In the years of the Notebook, he advanced very far in his pondering
on and acceptance of the great religious truths. But this did not as yet mean attachment to
a Church. Then he met Frances. "She actually practised a religion. This was something utterly
unaccountable both to me and to the whole fussy culture in which she lived." Now that they
were married, Frances, as a convinced Anglo-Catholic, was bringing more clergy and other Anglican
friends into Gilbert's circle. Moreover, he was lecturing all over England, and this brought
him into contact with all sorts of strange religious beliefs. "Amid all this scattered thinking
. . . I began to piece together fragments of the old religious scheme; mainly by the various
gaps that denoted its disappearance. And the more I saw of real human nature, the more I came
to suspect that it was really rather bad for all these people that it had disappeared."*

[* Autobiography, p. 177.]

In 1903-04 he had a tremendous battle (the detail of which will be treated in the next chapter)
in the Clarion with Robert Blatchford. In it he adumbrated many of the ideas that were later
developed in Orthodoxy. Of the arguments used by Blatchford and his atheist friends, G.K. wrote
that the effect on his own mind was: "Almost thou persuadest me to be a Christian." In a diary
kept by Frances spasmodically during the years 1904-05, she notes that Gilbert has been asked
to preach as the first of a series of lay preachers in a city church. She writes:

March 16th. One of the proudest days of my life. Gilbert preached at St. Paul's, Covent Garden
for the C.S.U. [Christian Social Union] Vox populi vox Dei. A crammed church--he was very eloquent
and restrained. Sermons will be published afterwards.

Published they were: under the title, Preachers from the Pew.

March 30th. The second sermon: "The Citizen, the Gentleman and the Savage." Even better than
last week. "Where there is no vision the people perisheth."

When it is remembered that the Browning, the Watts, Twelve Types and the Napoleon of Notting
Hill had all been published and received with acclaim, it is touching that Frances should speak
thus of the "proudest day" of her life. That Gilbert should himself have vision and show it
to others remained her strongest aspiration. Not thus felt all his admirers. The Blatchford
controversy on matters religious became more than many of them could bear.

A plaintive correspondent (says the Daily News), who seems to have had enough of the eternal
verities and the eternal other things, sends us the following "lines written on reading Mr.
G. K. Chesterton's forty-seventh reply to a secularist opponent":

   What ails our wondrous "G.K.C."
   Who late, on youth's glad wings,
   Flew fairylike, and gossip'd free
   Of translunary things,

   That thus, in dull didactic mood,
   He quits the realms of dream,
   And like some pulpit-preacher rude,
   Drones on one dreary theme?

   Stern Blatchford, thou hast dashed the glee
   Of our Omniscient Babe;
   Thy name alone now murmurs he,
   Or that of dark McCabe.

   All vain his cloudy fancies swell,
   His paradox all vain,
   Obsessed by that malignant spell
   Of Blatchford on the brain.

   H.S.S.*

[* Daily News, 12 January, 1904.]

Mr. Noel has a livelier memory of Gilbert's religious and social activities. On one occasion
he went to the Battersea flat for a meeting at which he was to speak and Gilbert take the chair,
to establish a local branch of the Christian Social Union. The two men got into talk over their
wine in the dining-room (then still a separate room) and Frances came in much agitated. "Gilbert
you must dress. The people will be arriving any moment.

"Yes, yes, I'll go."

The argument was resumed and went on with animation. Frances came back. "Gilbert, the drawing-room
is half full and people are still arriving." At last in despair she brought Gilbert's dress-clothes
into the dining-room and made him change there, still arguing. Next he had to be urged into
the drawing-room. Established at a small table he began to draw comic bishops, quite oblivious
of the fact that he was to take the chair at the now assembled meeting. Finally Frances managed
to attract his attention, he leaped up overthrowing the small table and scattering the comic
bishops.

"Surely this story," said a friend to whom I told it, "proves what some people said about Chesterton's
affectation. He must have been posing."

I do not think so, and those who knew Gilbert best believed him incapable of posing. But he
was perfectly capable of wilfulness and of sulking like a schoolboy. It amused him to argue
with Mr. Noel, it did not amuse him at all to take the chair at a meeting. So, as he was not
allowed to go on arguing, he drew comic bishops.

There was, too, more than a touch of this wilfulness in the second shock he administered to
respectable Battersea later in the evening. An earnest young lady asked the company for counsel
as to the best way of arranging her solitary maid's evening out. "I'm so afraid," ended the
appeal, "of her going to the Red Lion."

"Best place she could go," said Gilbert. And occasionally he would add example to precept,
for society and Fleet Street were not the only places for human intercourse. "At present,"
commented a journalist, "he is cultivating the local politics of Battersea; in secluded ale
houses he drinks with the frequenters and learns their opinions on municipal milk and on Mr.
John Burns."

"Good friends and very gay companions," Gilbert calls the Christian Social Union group of whom,
beside Conrad Noel, were Charles Masterman, Bishop Gore, Percy Dearmer, and above all Canon
Scott Holland. Known as "Scotty" and adored by many generations of young men, he was "a man
with a natural surge of laughter within him, so that his broad mouth seemed always to be shut
down on it in a grimace of restraint."* Like Gilbert, he suffered from the effect of urging
his most serious views with apparent flippancy and fantastic illustrations. In the course of
a speech to a respectable Nottingham audience he remarked, "I dare say several of you here
have never been in prison."

[* Autobiography, p. 169.]

"A ghastly stare," says Gilbert, describing this speech, "was fixed on all the faces of the
audience; and I have ever since seen it in my own dreams; for it has constituted a considerable
part of my own problem."

Gilbert's verses, summarizing the meeting as it must have sounded to a worthy Nottingham tradesman,
are quoted in the Autobiography and completed in Father Brown on Chesterton. I have put them
together here for they show how merrily these men were working to change the world.

   The Christian Social Union here
   Was very much annoyed;
   It seems there is some duty
   Which we never should avoid,
   And so they sang a lot of hymns
   To help the Unemployed.

   Upon a platform at the end
   The speakers were displayed
   And Bishop Hoskins stood in front
   And hit a bell and said
   That Mr. Carter was to pray,
   And Mr. Carter prayed.

   Then Bishop Gore of Birmingham
   He stood upon one leg
   And said he would be happier
   If beggars didn't beg,
   And that if they pinched his palace
   It would take him down a peg.

   He said that Unemployment
   Was a horror and a blight,
   He said that charities produced
   Servility and spite,
   And stood upon the other leg
   And said it wasn't right.

   And then a man named Chesterton
   Got up and played with water,
   He seemed to say that principles
   Were nice and led to slaughter
   And how we always compromised
   And how we didn't orter.

   Then Canon Holland fired ahead
   Like fifty cannons firing,
   We tried to find out what he meant
   With infinite enquiring,
   But the way he made the windows jump
   We couldn't help admiring.

   I understood him to remark
   (It seemed a little odd.)
   That half a dozen of his friends
   had never been in quod.
   He said he was a Socialist himself,
   And so was God.

   He said the human soul should be
   Ashamed of every sham,
   He said a man should constantly
   Ejaculate "I am"
   When he had done, I went outside
   And got into a tram.

Partly perhaps to console himself for the loss of his son's Daily company, chiefly, I imagine,
out of sheer pride and joy in his success, Edward Chesterton started after the publication
of The Wild Knight pasting all Gilbert's press-cuttings into volumes. Later I learnt that it
had long been Gilbert's weekly penance to read these cuttings on Sunday afternoon at his father's
house. Traces of his passage are visible wherever a space admits of a caricature, and occasionally,
where it does not, the caricature is superimposed on the text.

His growing fame may be seen by the growing size of these volumes and the increased space given
to each of his books. Twelve Types in 1902 had a good press for a young man's work and was
taken seriously in some important papers, but its success was as nothing compared with that
of the Browning a year later. The bulk of Twelve Types, as of The Defendant, had appeared in
periodicals, but never in his life did Gilbert prepare a volume of his essays for the press
without improving, changing and unifying. It was never merely a collection, always a book.

Still, the Browning was another matter. It was a compliment for a comparatively new author
to be given the commission for the English Men of Letters Series. Stephen Gwynn describes the
experience of the publishers:

On my advice the Macmillans had asked him to do Browning in the "English Men of Letters," when
he was still not quite arrived. Old Mr. Craik, the Senior Partner, sent for me and I found
him in white fury, with Chesterton's proofs corrected in pencil; or rather not corrected; there
were still thirteen errors uncorrected on one page; mostly in quotations from Browning. A selection
from a Scotch ballad had been quoted from memory and three of the four lines were wrong, I
wrote to Chesterton saying that the firm thought the book was going to "disgrace" them. His
reply was like the trumpeting of a crushed elephant. But the book was a huge success.*

[* Quoted in Chesterton, by Cyril Clemens, p. 14.]

In fact, it created a sensation and established G.K. in the front rank. Not all the reviewers
liked it, and one angry writer in the Athenaeum pointed out that, not content with innumerable
inaccuracies about Browning's descent and the events of his life, G.K. had even invented a
line in "Mr. Sludge the Medium." But every important paper had not only a review but a long
review, and the vast majority were enthusiastic. Chesterton claimed Browning as a poet not
for experts but for every man. His treatment of the Browning love affair, of the poet's obscurity,
of "The Ring and the Book," all receive this same praise of an originality which casts a true
and revealing light for his readers. As with all his literary criticism, the most famous critics
admitted that he had opened fresh windows on the subject for themselves.

This attack on his inaccuracy and admiration for his insight constantly recurs with Chesterton's
literary work. Readers noted that in the Ballad of the White Horse he made Alfred's left wing
face Guthrum's left wing. He was amused when it was pointed out, but never bothered to alter
it. His memory was prodigious. All his friends testify to his knowing by heart pages of his
favourite authors (and these were not few). Ten years after his time with Fisher Unwin, Frances
told Father O'Connor that he remembered all the plots and most of the characters of the "thousands"
of novels he had read for the firm. But he trusted his memory too much and never verified.
Indeed, when it was a question merely of verbal quotation he said it was pedantic to bother,
and when latterly Dorothy Collins looked up his references he barely tolerated it.

Again while he constantly declared that he was no scholar, he said things illuminating even
to scholars. Thus, much later, when Chesterton's St. Thomas Aquinas appeared, the Master-General
of the Dominican Order, Père Gillet, O.P., lectured on and from it to large meetings of Dominicans.
Mr. Eccles told me that talking of Virgil, G.K. said things immensely illuminating for experts
on Latin poetry. In a very different field, Mr. Oldershaw noted after their trip to Paris that
though he could set Gilbert right on many a detail yet his generalisations were marvellous.
He had, said Mr. Eccles, an intuitive mind. He had, too, read more than was realised, partly
because his carelessness and contempt for scholarship misled. Where the pedant would have referred
and quoted and cross-referred, he went dashing on, throwing out ideas from his abundance and
caring little if among his wealth were a few faults of fact or interpretation. "Abundance"
was a word much used of his work just now, and in the field of literary criticism he was placed
high, and had an enthusiastic following. We may assume that the Browning had something to do
with Sir Oliver Lodge's asking him in the next year (1904) to become a candidate for the Chair
of Literature at Birmingham University. But he had no desire to be a professor.

Frances, in her diary, notes some of their widening contacts and engagements. The mixture of
shrewdness and simplicity in her comments will be familiar to those who knew her intimately.
Meeting her for the first time I think the main impression was that of the "single eye." She
abounded in Gilbert's sense, as my mother commented after an early meeting, and ministered
to his genius. Yet she never lost an individual, markedly feminine point of view, which helped
him greatly, as anyone can see who will read all he wrote on marriage. He shows an insight
almost uncanny in the section called, "The Mistake About Women" in What's Wrong with the World.
"Some people," he said in a speech of 1905, "when married gain each other. Some only lose themselves."
The Chestertons gained each other. And by the sort of paradox he loved, Frances did so by throwing
the stream of her own life unreservedly into the greater river of her husband's. She writes
in her Diary, for 1904:

   Gilbert and I meet all sorts of queer, well-known, attractive,
   unattractive people and I expect this book will be mostly about
   them. . . .

   Feb. 17th. We went together to Mr. and Mrs. Sidney Colvin's "At
   home." It was rather jolly but too many clever people there to be
   really nice. The clever people were Mr. Joseph Conrad, Mr. Henry
   James, Mr. Laurence Binyon, Mr. Maurice Hewlett, and a great many
   more. Mr. and Mrs. Colvin looked so happy.

   Feb. 23rd. Gilbert went as Mr. Lane's guest to a dinner of the "Odd
   Volumes" at the Imperial Restaurant. The other guest was Baden
   Powell. He and Gilbert made speeches. . . .

   March 8th. Gilbert was to speak on "Education" at a C.S.U. meeting
   at Sion College, but a debate on the Chinese Labour in South Africa
   was introduced instead and went excitingly. There is to be a big
   meeting of the C.S.U. to protest. Though I suppose it's all no good
   now. When the meeting was over we adjourned to a tea-shop and had
   immense fun. Gilbert, Percy Dearmer and Conrad Noel walked together
   down Fleet Street, and never was there a funnier sight. Gilbert's
   costume consisted of a frock coat, huge felt hat and walking stick
   brandished in the face of the passers-by, to their exceeding great
   danger. Conrad was dressed in an old lounge suit of sober grey with a
   clerical hat jauntily stuck on the back of his head (which led
   someone to remark, "Are you here in the capacity of a private
   gentleman, poor curate, or low-class actor?"). Mr. Dearmer was clad
   in wonderful clerical garments of which he alone possesses the
   pattern, which made him look like a Chaucer Canterbury Pilgrim or a
   figure out of a Noah's ark. They swaggered down the roadway talking
   energetically. At tea we talked of many things, the future of the
   "Commonwealth" chiefly . . .

   March 22nd. Meeting of Christian Theosophical Society at which
   Gilbert lectured on "How Theosophy appears to a Christian." He was
   very good. Herbert Burrows vigorously attacked him in debate
   afterwards . . . Napoleon of Notting Hill was published.

   April 27th. The Bellocs and the Noels came here to dinner. Hilaire
   in great form recited his own poetry with great enthusiasm the whole
   evening . . .

   May 9th. the Literary Fund Dinner. About the greatest treat I ever
   had in my life. J. M. Barrie presided. He was so splendid and so
   complimentary. Mrs. J. M. Barrie is very pretty, but the most
   beautiful woman there was Mrs. Anthony Hope--copper coloured hair,
   masses, with a wreath of gardenias--green eyes--and a long neck, very
   beautiful figure. The speakers were Barrie, Lord Tennyson, Comyns
   Carr, A. E. W. Mason, Mrs. Craigie (who acquitted herself
   wonderfully) and Mrs. Flora Annie Steel. After the formal dinner was
   a reception at which everyone was very friendly. It is wonderful the
   way in which they all accept Gilbert, and one well-known man told me
   he was the biggest man present. Anyhow there was the feeling of
   brotherhood and fellowship in the wielding of "the lovely and
   loathely pen" (J. M. Barrie's speech).

   May 12th. Went to see Max Beerbohm's caricature of Gilbert at the
   Carfax Gallery. "G.K.C.--humanist--kissing the World." It's more like
   Thackeray, very funny though.

   June 9th. A political "at home" at Mrs. Sidney Webb's--saw Winston
   Churchill and Lloyd George. Politics and nothing but politics is dull
   work though, and an intriguer's life must be a pretty poor affair.
   Mrs. Sidney Webb looked very handsome and moved among her guests as
   one to the manner born. I like Mrs. Leonard Courtenay who is always
   kind to me. Charlie Masterman and I had a long talk on the iniquities
   of the "Daily News" and goodness knows they are serious enough.

   June 22nd. An "at home" at Mrs. ----'s proved rather a dull affair
   save for a nice little conversation with Watts Dunton. His walrusy
   appearance which makes the bottom of his face look fierce, is
   counteracted by the kindness of his little eyes. He told us the inner
   story of Whistler's "Peacock Room" which scarcely redounds to
   Whistler's credit. The Duchess of Sutherland was there and many
   notabilities. Between ourselves Mr. ---- is a good-hearted snob. His
   wife nice, intelligent, but affected (I suppose unconsciously). I
   don't really like the "precious people." They worry me.

   June 30th. Graham Robertson's "at home" was exceedingly select. I
   felt rather too uncultivated to talk much. Mr. Lane tucked his arm
   into mine and requested to know the news which means, "tell me all
   your husband is doing, or going to do, how much is he getting, who
   will publish for him, has he sold his American rights, etc." Cobden's
   three daughters looked out of place, so solid and sincere are they.
   It was all too grand. No man ought to have so much wealth.

   July 5th. Gilbert went today to see Swinburne--I think he found it
   rather hard to reconcile the idea with the man, but he was
   interested, though I could not gather much about the visit. He was
   amused at the compliments which Watts Dunton and Swinburne pay to
   each other unceasingly.

   December 8th. George Alexander has an idea that he wants Gilbert to
   write a play for him, and sent for him to come and see him. He was
   apparently taken with the notion of a play on the Crusades, and
   although there is at present no love incident in Gilbert's mind,
   Alexander introduced and acted the supposed love scene with great
   spirit. It may come off some day perhaps.

   December 31st. H. Belloc's been very ill but is better, thank God.

   1905

   Feb. 1st. Gilbert, a guest at the "Eighty Club" dinner. Rhoda and I
   went to after dinner speeches. G. W. E. Russell (Chair). Augustine
   Birrell guest and Sir Henry Fowler. It amused me hugely. Russell so
   imprudent and reckless, Birrell so prudent and incapable of giving
   himself away, Sir Henry Fowler so commonplace and trite. He looked so
   wicked. I thought of Mr. Haldane's story of Fowler's fur coat and his
   single remark on examining it: "skunk."

   Feb. 11th. Rather an interesting lunch at Mrs. J. R. Green's. Jack
   Yeats and Mrs. Thursby were there. The atmosphere is too political
   and I imagine Mrs. Green to be a bit of a wire-puller, though I
   believe a nice woman.

   Feb. 24th. Mr. Halliwell Sutcliffe came over. He is amusing and
   nice. Very puzzled at Gilbert's conduct, which on this particular
   occasion was peculiarly eccentric.

   March 9th. I had an amusing lunch at the Hotel Cecil with Miss
   Bisland (representative of McClure). Evidently thinks a lot of
   Gilbert and wants his work for McClure. O ye gods and little fishes!
   The diplomatic service ought to be all conducted by women. I offered
   her Margaret's poems in exchange for a short interview with Meredith
   which she wishes Gilbert to undertake.

   March 14th. Gilbert dined at the Buxtons, met Asquith.

   March 19th. Lienie is in town and we have been with her to call on
   the Duchess of Sutherland. When I had got used to the splendour it
   was jolly enough. Her Grace is a pretty, sweet woman who was very
   nervous, but got better under the fire of Gilbert's chaff. She made
   him write in her album which he did, a most ridiculous poem of which
   he should be ashamed. It must be truly awful to live in the sort of
   way the Duchess does and endeavour to keep sane.

   May 20th. Words fail me when I try to recall the sensation aroused
   by a J.D.C. dinner. It seems so odd to think of these men as boys, to
   realize what their school life was and what a powerful element the
   J.D.C. was in the lives of all. And there were husbands and wives,
   and the tie so strong, and the long, long thoughts of schoolboys and
   schoolgirls fell on us, as if the battle were still to come instead
   of raging round us.

   May 24th. We went together to see George Meredith. I suppose many
   people have seen him in his little Surrey Cottage; Flint Cottage,
   Boxhill. He has a wonderful face and a frail old body. He talks
   without stopping except to drink ginger-beer. He told us many
   stories, mostly about society scandals of some time back. I remember
   he asked Gilbert, "Do you like babies?" and when Gilbert said, "Yes,"
   he said "So do I, especially in the comet stage."

   June 5th. Granville Barker came to see Gilbert, touching the
   possibility of a play.

   June 29th. A garden party at the Bishop's House, Kennington. The
   Bishop told me that A. J. Balfour was very impressed with "Heretics."
   Guild of St. Matthew Service and rowdy supper. Gilbert made an
   excellent speech.

   July 5th. Gilbert dined at the Asquiths; met Rosebery. I think he
   hated it.

   July 16th. Gilbert went to see Mrs. Grenfell at Taplow. He met
   Balfour, Austen Chamberlain and George Wyndham. Had an amusing time,
   no doubt. Says Balfour is most interesting to talk to but appears
   bored. George Wyndham is delightful.

One felt always with both Frances and Gilbert that this society life stayed on the surface--amusing,
distracting, sometimes welcome, sometimes boring--but never infringing the deeper reality of
their relationships with old friends, with their own families, with each other. Frances wrote
endless business and other letters for them both: in just a handful, mainly to Father O'Connor,
does she show her deeper life of thought and feeling. Gilbert had little time now for writing
anything but books and articles. Never a very good correspondent he had become an exceedingly
bad one. Annie Firmin's engagement to Robert Kidd produced one of the few letters that exist.
It is handwritten and undated.

   A Restaurant somewhere.

   MY DEAR ANNIE,

   I have thought of you, I am quite certain, more often than I have
   of any human being for a long time past--except my wife who recalls
   herself continually to me by virtues, splendours, agreeable memories,
   screams, pokers, brickbats and other things. And yet, though whenever
   my mind was for an instant emptied of theology and journalism and
   patriotism and such rot, it has been immediately filled with you, I
   have never written you a line.

