THE

CONSTITUTIONAL HISTORY

OF

ENGLAND

from 1760 to 1860

BY CHARLES DUKE YONGE, M.A. REGIUS PROFESSOR OF MODERN HISTORY, QUEEN'S COLLEGE, BELFAST AND
AUTHOR OF "THE HISTORY OF THE BRITISH NAVY" "THE LIFE OF MARIE ANTOINETTE" ETC.

1882

PREFACE.

Mr. Hallam's "Constitutional History" closes, as is well known, with the death of George II.
The Reformation, the great Rebellion, and the Revolution, all of which are embraced in the
period of which it treats, are events of such surpassing importance, and such all-pervading
and lasting influence, that no subsequent transactions can ever attract entirely equal attention.
Yet the century which has elapsed since the accession of George III. has also witnessed occurrences
not only full of exciting interest at the moment, but calculated to affect the policy of the
kingdom and the condition of the people, for all future time, in a degree only second to the
Revolution itself. Indeed, the change in some leading features and principles of the constitution
wrought by the Reform Bill of 1832, exceeds any that were enacted by the Bill of Rights or
the Act of Settlement. The only absolutely new principle introduced in 1688 was that establishment
of Protestant ascendency which was contained in the clause which disabled any Roman Catholic
from wearing the crown. In other respects, those great statutes were not so much the introduction
of new principles, as a recognition of privileges of the people which had been long established,
but which, in too many instances, had been disregarded and violated.

But the Reform Bill conferred political power on classes which had never before been admitted
to be entitled to it; and their enfranchisement could not fail to give a wholly new and democratic
tinge to the government, which has been visible in its effect on the policy of all subsequent
administrations.

And, besides this great measure, the passing of which has often been called a new Revolution,
and the other reforms, municipal and ecclesiastical, which were its immediate and almost inevitable
fruits, the century which followed the accession of George III. was also marked by the Irish
Union, the abolition of slavery, the establishment of the principle of universal religious
toleration; the loss of one great collection of colonies, the plantation of and grant of constitutions
to others of not inferior magnitude, which had not even come into existence at its commencement;
the growth of our wondrous dominion in India, with its eventual transfer of all authority in
that country to the crown; with a host of minor transactions and enactments, which must all
be regarded as, more or less, so many changes in or developments of the constitution, as it
was regarded and understood by the statesmen of the seventeenth century.

It has seemed, therefore, to the compiler of this volume, that a narrative of these transactions
in their historical sequence, so as to exhibit the connection which has frequently existed
between them; to show, for instance, how the repeal of Poynings' Act, and the Regency Bill
of 1788, necessitated the Irish Union; how Catholic Emancipation brought after it Parliamentary
Reform, and how that led to municipal and ecclesiastical reforms, might not be without interest
and use at the present time. And the modern fulness of our parliamentary reports (itself one
not unimportant reform and novelty), since the accession of George III., has enabled him to
give the inducements or the objections to the different enactments in the very words of the
legislators who proposed them or resisted them, as often as it seemed desirable to do so.

CONTENTS.

CHAPTER I.

Mr. Hallam's View of the Development of the Constitution.--Symptoms of approaching Constitutional
Changes.--State of the Kingdom at the Accession of George III.--Improvement of the Law affecting
the Commissions of the Judges.--Restoration of Peace.--Lord Bute becomes Minister.--The Case
of Wilkes.--Mr. Luttrell is Seated for Middlesex by the House of Commons.--Growth of Parliamentary
Reporting.--Mr. Grenville's Act for trying Election Petitions.--Disfranchisement of Corrupt
Voters at New Shoreham.

CHAPTER II.

The Regency Bill.--The Ministry of 1766 lay an Embargo on Corn.--An Act of Indemnity is Passed.--The
Nullum Tempus Act concerning Crown Property; it is sought to Extend it to Church Property,
but the Attempt fails.--The Royal Marriage Act.--The Lords amend a Bill imposing Export Duties,
etc., on Corn.

CHAPTER III.

Mr. Grenville imposes a Duty on Stamps in the North American Colonies.--Examination of Dr.
Franklin.--Lord Rockingham's Ministry Repeals the Duty.--Lord Mansfield affirms a Virtual Representation
in the Colonies.--Mr. C. Townsend imposes Import Duties in America.--After some Years, the
Civil War breaks out.--Hanoverian Troops are sent to Gibraltar.--The Employment of Hanoverian
Regiments at Gibraltar and Minorca.--End of the War.--Colonial Policy of the Present Reign.--Complaints
of the Undue Influence of the Crown.--Motions for Parliamentary Reform.--Mr. Burke's Bill for
Economical Reform.--Mr. Dunning's Resolution on the Influence of the Crown.--Rights of the
Lords on Money-bills.--The Gordon Riots.

CHAPTER IV.

Changes of Administration.--The Coalition Ministry.--The Establishment of the Prince of Wales.--Fox's
India Bill.--The King Defeats it by the Agency of Lord Temple.--The Ministry is Dismissed,
and Succeeded by Mr. Pitt's Administration.--Opposition to the New Ministry in the House of
Commons.--Merits of the Contest between the Old and the New Ministry.--Power of Pitt.--Pitt's
India Bill.--Bill for the Government of Canada.--The Marriage of the Prince of Wales to Mrs.
Fitzherbert.--The King becomes Deranged.--Proposal of a Regency.--Opinions of Various Writers
on the Course adopted.--Spread of Revolutionary Societies and Opinions.--Bills for the Repression
of Sedition and Treason.--The Alien Act.--The Traitorous Correspondence Act.--Treason and Sedition
Bills.--Failure of some Prosecutions under them.

CHAPTER V.

The Affairs of Ireland.--Condition of the Irish Parliament.--The Octennial Bill.--The Penal
Laws.--Non-residence of the Lord- lieutenant.--Influence of the American War on Ireland.--Enrolment
of the Volunteers.--Concession of all the Demands of Ireland.--Violence of the Volunteers.--Their
Convention.--Violence of the Opposition in Parliament: Mr. Brownlow, Mr. Grattan, Mr. Flood.--Pitt's
Propositions Fail.--Fitzgibbon's Conspiracy Bill.--Regency Question.--Recovery of the King.--Question
of a Legislative Union.--Establishment of Maynooth College.--Lord Edward Fitzgerald.--Arguments
for and against the Union.--It passes the Irish Parliament.--Details of the Measure.-- General
Character of the Union.--Circumstances which Prevented its Completeness.

CHAPTER VI.

A Census is Ordered.--Dissolution of Pitt's Administration.--Impeachment of Lord Melville.--Introduction
of Lord Ellenborough into the Cabinet.--Abolition of the Slave-trade.--Mr. Windham's Compulsory
Training Bill.--Illness of the King, and Regency.--Recurrence to the Precedent of 1788-'89.--Death
of Mr. Perceval.--Lord Liverpool becomes Prime-minister.--Question of Appointments in the Household.--Appointment
of a Prime-minister.

CHAPTER VII.

The Toleration Act.--Impropriety of making Catholic Emancipation (or any other Important Matter)
an Open Question.--Joint Responsibility of all the Ministers.--Detention of Napoleon at St.
Helena.--Question whether the Regent could Give Evidence in a Court of Law in a Civil Action.--Agitation
for Reform.--Public Meetings.--The Manchester Meeting.--The Seditious Meetings Prevention Bill.--Lord
Sidmouth's Six Acts.

CHAPTER VIII.

Survey of the Reign of George III.--The Cato Street Conspiracy.--The Queen's Return to England,
and the Proceedings against her.--The King Visits Ireland and Scotland.--Reform of the Criminal
Code.--Freedom of Trade.--Death of Lord Liverpool.--The Duke of Wellington becomes Prime-minister.--Repeal
of the Test and Corporation Act.--O'Connell is Elected for Clare.--Peel Resigns his Seat for
Oxford.--Catholic Emancipation.--Question of the Endowment of the Roman Catholic Clergy.--Constitutional
Character of the Emancipation.--The Propriety of Mr. Peel's Resignation of his Seat for Oxford
Questioned.

CHAPTER IX.

Demand for Parliamentary Reform.--Death of George IV., and Accession of William IV.--French
Revolution of 1830.--Growing Feeling in Favor of Reform.--Duke of Wellington's Declaration
against Reform.--His Resignation: Lord Grey becomes Prime-minister.--Introduction of the Reform
Bill.--Its Details.--Riots at Bristol and Nottingham.--Proposed Creation of Peers.--The King's
Message to the Peers.--Character and Consequences of the Reform Bill.--Appointment of a Regency.--
Re-arrangement of the Civil List.

CHAPTER X.

Abolition of Slavery.--Abridgment of the Apprenticeship.--The East India Company's Trade is
Thrown Open.--Commencement of Ecclesiastical Reforms.--The New Poor-law.--State of Ireland.--Agitation
against Tithes.--Coercion Bill.--Beginning of Church Reform.--Sir Robert Peel becomes Prime-minister.--Variety
of Offices held Provisionally by the Duke of Wellington.--Sir Robert Peel Retires, and Lord
Melbourne Resumes the Government.--Sir Robert Peel Proposes a Measure of Church Reform.--Municipal
Reform.--Measures of Ecclesiastical Reform.

CHAPTER XI.

Death of William IV., and Accession of Queen Victoria.--Rise of the Chartists.--Resignation
of Lord Melbourne in 1839, and his Resumption of Office.--Marriage of the Queen, and Consequent
Arrangements.--The Precedence of the Prince, etc.--Post-office Reform.--War in Afghanistan.--Discontent
in Jamaica.--Insurrection in Canada.--New Constitution for Canada and other Colonies.--Case
of Stockdale and Hansard.

CHAPTER XII.

Sir Robert Peel becomes Prime-minister.--Commercial Reforms.--Free-trade.--Religious Toleration.--Maynooth.--The
Queen's University.--Post-office Regulations.--The Opening of Letters.-- Naturalization of
Aliens.--Recall of Lord Ellenborough.--Reversal of the Vote on the Sugar Duties.--Refusal of
the Crown to Sanction a Bill.--The Question of Increase in the Number of Spiritual Peers.--Repeal
of the Corn-laws.--Revolution in France, and Agitation on the Continent.--Death of Sir Robert
Peel.--Indifference of the Country to Reform.--Repeal of the Navigation Laws.--Resolutions
in Favor of Free-trade.--The Great Exhibition of 1851.

CHAPTER XIII.

Dismissal of Lord Palmerston.--Theory of the Relation between the Sovereign and the Cabinet.--Correspondence
of the Sovereign with French Princes.--Russian War.--Abolition of the Tax on Newspapers.--Life
Peerages.--Resignation of two Bishops.--Indian Mutiny.--Abolition of the Sovereign Power of
the Company.--Visit of the Prince of Wales to India.--Conspiracy Bill.--Rise of the Volunteers.--National
Fortifications.--The Lords Reject the Measure for the Repeal of the Paper-duties.--Lord Palmerston's
Resolutions.--Character of the Changes during the last Century.

INDEX.

CONSTITUTIONAL HISTORY OF ENGLAND.

The learned and judicious writer to whom is due the first idea of a "Constitutional History
of England," and of whose admirable work I here venture to offer a continuation, regards "the
spirit of the government" as having been "almost wholly monarchical till the Revolution of
1688," and in the four subsequent reigns, with the last of which his volumes close, as "having
turned chiefly to an aristocracy."[1] And it may be considered as having generally preserved
that character through the long and eventful reign of George III. But, even while he was writing,
a change was already preparing, of which more than one recent occurrence had given unmistakable
warning. A borough had been disfranchised for inveterate corruption in the first Parliament
of George IV.[2] Before its dissolution, the same House of Commons had sanctioned the principle
of a state endowment of the Roman Catholic clergy in Ireland, and had given a third reading
to a bill for the abolition of all civil restrictions affecting members of that religion. It
was impossible to avoid foreseeing that the Parliamentary Reform inaugurated by the disfranchisement
of Grampound would soon be carried farther, or that the emancipation, as it was termed, of
all Christian sects was at least equally certain not to be long delayed. And it will be denied
by no one that those measures, which had no very obscure or doubtful connection with each other,
have gradually imparted to the constitution a far more democratic tinge than would have been
willingly accepted by even the most liberal statesman of the preceding century, or than, in
the days of the Tudors or of the Stuarts, would have been thought compatible with the maintenance
of the monarchy.

When George III. came to the throne, he found the nation engaged in a war which was occupying
its arms not only on the Continent of Europe, but in India and America also, and was extending
her glory and her substantial power in both hemispheres. Inter arma silent leges. And, while
the contest lasted, neither legislators in Parliament nor the people outside had much attention
to spare for matters of domestic policy. Yet the first year of the new reign was not suffered
to pass without the introduction of one measure limiting the royal prerogative in a matter
of paramount importance to the liberty of the people, the independence of the judges. The rule
of making the commissions of the judges depend on their good conduct instead of on the pleasure
of the crown had, indeed, been established at the Revolution; but it was still held that these
commissions expired with the life of the sovereign who had granted them; and, at the accession
of Anne, as also at that of George II., a renewal of their commissions had been withheld from
some members of the judicial bench. But now, even before the dissolution of the existing Parliament,
the new King recommended to it such a change in the law as should "secure the judges in the
enjoyment of their offices during their good behavior, notwithstanding any demise of the crown;"
giving the proposal, which was understood to have been originally suggested by himself, additional
weight by the very unusual step of making it the subject of a speech to the two Houses in the
middle of the session. A bill to give effect to it was at once brought in, and, though the
Houses sat only a fortnight longer, was carried before the dissolution.

The close of the year 1762, however, saw the restoration of peace; and the circumstances connected
with the treaty which re-established it gave birth to a degree of political and constitutional
excitement such as had not agitated the kingdom for more than half a century. That treaty had
not been concluded by the minister who had conducted the war. When George III. came to the
throne he found the Duke of Newcastle presiding at the Treasury, but the seals of one Secretary
of State in the hands of Mr. Pitt, who was universally regarded as the guiding genius of the
ministry. The other Secretary of State was Lord Holdernesse. But, in the spring of 1761, as
soon as the Parliament was dissolved,[3] that statesman retired from office, and was succeeded
by the Earl of Bute, a Scotch nobleman, who stood high in the favor of the King's mother, the
Princess Dowager of Wales, but who had not till very recently been supposed to be actuated
by political ambition, and who was still less suspected of any statesman-like ability to qualify
him for the office to which he was thus promoted. It was presently seen, however, that he aspired
to even higher dignity. He at once set himself to oppose Pitt's warlike policy; and, on the
question of declaring war against Spain, he was so successful in inducing the rest of the cabinet
to reject Pitt's proposals, that that statesman resigned his office in unconcealed indignation.
Having got rid of the real master of the ministry, Bute's next step was to get rid of its nominal
chief, and in the spring of 1762 he managed to drive the Duke of Newcastle from the Treasury,
and was himself placed by the King at the head of the administration. So rapid an elevation
of a man previously unknown as a politician could hardly fail to create very widespread dissatisfaction,
which was in some degree augmented by the nationality of the new minister. Lord Bute was a
Scotchman, and Englishmen had not wholly forgiven or forgotten the Scotch invasion of 1745.
Since that time the Scotch had been regarded with general disfavor; Scotch poverty and Scotch
greediness for the good things of England had furnished constant topics for raillery and sarcasm;
and more than one demagogue and political writer had sought popularity by pandering to the
prevailing taste for attacks on the whole nation. Foremost among these was Mr. John Wilkes,
member for Aylesbury, a man of broken fortunes and still more damaged character, but of a wit
and hardihood that made his society acceptable to some of high rank and lax morality, and caused
his political alliance to be courted by some who desired to be regarded as leaders of a party;
many of the transactions of the late reign having, unfortunately, not been favorable to the
maintenance of any high standard of either public or private virtue. On Lord Bute's accession
to office, Wilkes had set up a periodical paper, whose object and character were sufficiently
indicated by its title, The North Briton, and in which the diligence of Lord Bute in distributing
places among his kinsmen and countrymen furnished the staple of almost every number; while
in many the Princess of Wales herself was not spared, as the cause, for motives not obscurely
hinted at, of his sudden elevation. So pertinacious and virulent were the attacks thus launched
at him, coinciding as they did, at least in one point, with the prejudices of the multitude,
that they were commonly believed to have had some share in driving Lord Bute from office, which,
in the spring of 1763, he suddenly resigned, hoping, as it might almost seem, thus to throw
on his successor the burden of defending his measures. The most important of these measures
had been the conclusion of the Treaty of Versailles, which, when it was first announced to
Parliament, had been vehemently attacked in both Houses by Pitt and his followers, but had
been approved by large majorities. Wilkes, however, not without reason, believed it to be still
unpopular with the nation at large, and, flushed with his supposed victory over Lord Bute,
was watching eagerly for some occasion of re-opening the question, when such an opportunity
was afforded him by the King's speech at the prorogation of the Parliament, which took place
a few days after Lord Bute's resignation.

Lord Bute had been succeeded by Mr. George Grenville, who had for a time been one of his colleagues
as Secretary of State; and on him, therefore, the duty devolved of framing the royal speech
the opening sentences of which referred to "the re-establishment of peace" in terms of warm
self-congratulation, as having been effected "upon conditions honorable to the crown and beneficial
to the people." Wilkes at once caught at this panegyric, as affording him just such an opportunity
as he had been seeking of renewing his attacks on the government, which he regarded as changed
in nothing but the name of the Prime-minister.[4] And, four days after the prorogation,[5]
he accordingly issued a new number of The North Briton (No. 45), in which he heaped unmeasured
sarcasm and invective on the peace itself, on the royal speech, and on the minister who had
composed it. As if conscious that Mr. Grenville was less inclined by temper than Lord Bute
to suffer such attacks without endeavoring to retaliate, he took especial pains to keep within
the law in his strictures, and, accordingly, carefully avoided saying a disrespectful word
of the King himself, whom he described as "a prince of many great and amiable qualities," "ever
renowned for truth, honor, and unsullied virtue." But he claimed a right to canvass the speech
"with the utmost freedom," since "it had always been considered by the Legislature and by the
public at large as the speech of the minister." And he kept this distinction carefully in view
through the whole number. The speech he denounced with bitter vehemence, as "an abandoned instance
of ministerial effrontery," as containing "the most unjustifiable public declarations" and
"infamous fallacies." The peace he affirmed to be "such as had drawn down the contempt of mankind
on our wretched negotiators." And he described the present minister as a mere tool of "the
favorite," by whom "he still meditated to rule the kingdom with a rod of iron." But in the
whole number there was but one sentence which could be represented as implying the very slightest
censure on the King himself, and even that was qualified by a personal eulogy. "The King of
England," it said, "is not only the first magistrate of the country, but is invested by the
law with the whole executive power. He is, however, responsible to his people for the due execution
of the royal functions in the choice of ministers, etc., equally with the meanest of his subjects
in his particular duty. The personal character of our present amiable sovereign makes us easy
and happy that so great a power is lodged in such hands; but the favorite has given too just
cause for him to escape the general odium. The prerogative of the crown is to exert the constitutional
power intrusted to it in such a way, not of blind favor and partiality, but of wisdom and judgment.
This is the spirit of our constitution. The people, too, have their prerogative; and I hope
the fine words of Dryden will be engraven on our hearts, 'Freedom is the English subject's
prerogative.'"

These were the last sentences of No. 45. And in the present day it will hardly be thought that,
however severe or even violent some of the epithets with which certain sentences of the royal
speech were assailed may have been, the language exceeds the bounds of allowable political
criticism. With respect to the King, indeed, however accompanied with personal compliments
to himself those strictures may have been, it may be admitted that in asserting any responsibility
whatever to the people on the part of the sovereign, even for the choice of his ministers,
as being bound to exercise that choice "with wisdom and judgment," it goes somewhat beyond
the strict theory of the constitution. Undoubtedly that theory is, that the minister chosen
by the King is himself responsible for every circumstance or act which led to his appointment.
This principle was established in the fullest manner in 1834, when, as will be seen hereafter,
Sir Robert Peel admitted his entire responsibility for the dismissal of Lord Melbourne by King
William IV., though it was notorious that he was in Italy at the time, and had not been consulted
on the matter. But as yet such questions had not been as accurately examined as subsequent
events caused them to be; and Wilkes's assertion of royal responsibility to this extent probably
coincided with the general feeling on the subject.[6] At all events, the error contained in
it, and the insinuation that due wisdom and judgment had not been displayed in the appointment
of Mr. G. Grenville to the Treasury, were not so derogatory to the legitimate authority and
dignity of the crown as to make the writer a fit subject for a criminal prosecution. But Mr.
Grenville was of a bitter temper, never inclined to tolerate any strictures on his own judgment
or capacity, and fully imbued with the conviction that the first duty of an English minister
is to uphold the supreme authority of the Parliament, and to chastise any one who dares to
call in question the wisdom of any one of its resolutions. But The North Briton had done this,
and more. No. 45 had not only denounced the treaty which both Houses had approved, but had
insinuated in unmistakable language that their approval had been purchased by gross corruption
(a fact which was, indeed, sufficiently notorious). And, consequently, Mr. Grenville determined
to treat the number which contained the denunciation as a seditious libel, the publication
of which was a criminal offence; and, by his direction, Lord Halifax, as Secretary of State,
issued what was termed a general warrant--a warrant, that is, which did not name the person
or persons against whom it was directed, but which commanded the apprehension of "the authors,
printers, and publishers" of the offending paper, leaving the officers who were charged with
its execution to decide who came under that description, or, in other words, who were guilty
of the act charged, before they had been brought before any tribunal. The warrant was executed.
Wilkes and some printers were apprehended; Wilkes himself, as if the minister's design had
been to make the charge ridiculous by exaggeration, being consigned to the great state-prison
of the Tower, such a use of which was generally limited to those impeached of high-treason.
And, indeed, the commitment did declare that No. 45 of The North Briton was "a libel tending
to alienate the affections of the people from his Majesty, and to excite them to traitorous
insurrections against the government." Wilkes instantly sued out a writ of habeas corpus, and
was without hesitation released by the Court of Common Pleas, on the legal ground that, "as
a member of the House of Commons, he was protected from arrest in all cases except treason,
felony, or a breach of the peace;" a decision which, in the next session of Parliament, the
minister endeavored to overbear by inducing both Houses to concur in a resolution that "privilege
of Parliament did not extend to the case of publishing seditious libels."

In his life of Lord Camden,[7] who was Chief-justice of the Common Pleas at the time, Lord
Campbell expresses a warm approval of this resolution, as one "which would now be considered
conclusive evidence of the law." But, with all respect to the memory of a writer who was himself
a Chief-justice, we suspect that in this case he was advancing a position as an author engaged
in the discussion of what had become a party question, which he would not have laid down from
the Bench.[8] The resolution certainly did not make it law, since it was not confirmed by any
royal assent; and to interpret the law is not within the province of the House of Commons,
nor, except when sitting as a Court of Appeal, of the House of Lords. We may, however, fully
agree with the principle which Lord Campbell at the same time lays down, that "privilege of
Parliament should not be permitted to interfere with the execution of the criminal law of the
country." And this doctrine has been so fully acquiesced in since, that members of both Houses
have in more than one instance been imprisoned on conviction for libel.

The legality of the species of warrant under which Wilkes had been arrested was, however, a
question of far greater importance; and on that no formal decision was pronounced on this occasion,
the Lieutenant of the Tower, in his return to the writ of habeas corpus, and the counsel employed
on both sides, equally avoiding all mention of the character of the warrant. But it was indirectly
determined shortly afterward. The leaders of the Opposition would fain have had the point settled
by what, in truth, would not have settled it--another resolution of the House of Commons. But,
though it was discussed in several warm debates, Grenville always contrived to baffle his adversaries,
though on one occasion his majority dwindled to fourteen.[9] What, however, the House of Commons
abstained from affirming was distinctly, though somewhat extra-judicially, asserted by Lord
Camden, as Chief-justice of the Common Pleas. Wilkes, with some of the printers and others
who had been arrested, had brought actions for false imprisonment, which came to be tried in
his court; and they obtained such heavy damages that the officials who had been mulcted applied
for new trials, on the plea of their being excessive. But the Chief-justice refused the applications,
and upheld the verdict, on the ground that the juries, in their assessment of damages, had
been "influenced by a righteous indignation at the conduct of those who sought to exercise
arbitrary power over all the King's subjects, to violate Magna Charta, and to destroy the liberty
of the kingdom, by insisting on the legality of this general warrant." Such a justification
would hardly be admitted now. But, in a subsequent trial, a still higher authority, the Chief-justice
of the King's Bench, Lord Mansfield, held language so similar, that, once more to quote the
words of Lord Campbell, "without any formal judgment, general warrants have ever since been
considered illegal."

However, the release of Wilkes on the ground of his parliamentary privilege gave him but a
momentary triumph, or rather respite. The prosecution was not abated by the decision that he
could not be imprisoned before trial; while one effect of his liberation was to stimulate the
minister to add another count to the indictment preferred against him, on which he might be
expected to find it less easy to excite the sympathy of any party. Wilkes had not always confined
his literary efforts to political pamphlets. There was a club named the Franciscans (in compliment
to Sir Francis Dashwood, Lord Bute's Chancellor of the Exchequer, who, as well as Lord Sandwich,
the First Lord of the Admiralty, was one of its members), which met at Medmenham Abbey, on
the banks of the Thames, and there held revels whose license recalled the worst excesses of
the preceding century. He had never published it (indeed, it may be doubted whether, even in
that not very delicate age, any publisher could have been found to run the risk of issuing
so scandalous a work), but he had printed a few copies in his own house, of which he designed
to make presents to such friends as he expected to appreciate it. He had not, however, so far
as it appears, given away a single copy, when, on the very first day of the next session of
Parliament, Lord Sandwich himself brought the parody under the notice of the House of Lords.
If there was a single member of the House whose delicacy was not likely to be shocked, and
whose morals could not be injured by such a composition, it was certainly Lord Sandwich himself;
but his zeal as a minister to support his chief kindled in him a sudden enthusiasm for the
support of virtue and decency also; and, having obtained a copy by some surreptitious means,
he now made a formal complaint of it to the House, contending that the use of the name of the
Bishop of Gloucester as author of the notes constituted a breach of the privileges of the House.
And he was seconded by the bishop himself, whose temper and judgment were, unhappily, very
inferior to his learning and piety. It is recorded that he actually compared Wilkes to the
devil, and then apologized to Satan for the comparison. But the Lords were in a humor to regard
no violence against Wilkes as excessive; and, submitting to the guidance of the minister and
the prelate, resolved that the "Essay on Woman,"[10] as also another poem by the same writer,
a paraphrase of the "Veni Creator," was "a most scandalous, obscene, and impious libel," and
presented an address to the King, requesting his Majesty "to give the most effectual orders
for the immediate prosecution of the author." And, in the course of the next few weeks, the
House of Commons outran the peers themselves in violence and manifest unfairness. They concurred
with the Lords in ordering No. 45 of The North Briton to be burnt by the common hangman, an
order which was not carried out without great opposition on the part of the London populace,
who made it the occasion of a very formidable riot, in which the sheriffs themselves incurred
no little danger; and, by another resolution, they ordered Wilkes to attend in his place to
answer the charge of having published the two works. But at the time when they made this order
it was well known that he could not obey it. A few days before he had been challenged by a
Mr. Martin, who till very recently had been one of the Secretaries of the Treasury, and who
was generally believed to have prepared himself for the conflict by diligent practice with
a pistol; and in the duel which ensued Wilkes had been severely wounded. It was not only notorious
that he had been thus disabled, but he sent a physician and surgeon of admitted eminence in
their profession, and of unquestioned honor, to testify to the fact at the bar of the House;
and subsequently he forwarded written certificates to the same purport from some French doctors
who had special knowledge of gunshot wounds. But the Commons declined to accept this evidence
as sufficient, and directed two other doctors to examine him. Wilkes, however, refused to admit
them: his refusal was treated as a sufficient ground for pronouncing him "guilty of a contempt
of the authority of the House," and for deciding on his case in his absence; and, on the 19th
of January, before the case had come on for trial, a resolution was carried that "Mr. Wilkes
was guilty of writing and publishing The North Briton (No. 45), which this House had voted
to be a false, scandalous, and seditious libel, and that, for the said offence, he be expelled
the House." At a later period of the year, he was tried on the two charges of publishing No.
45 and the "Essay on Woman," was found guilty of both, and, as he did not appear to receive
judgment, in November, 1764, he was outlawed.

So far, it may be said to have been a drawn battle. If, on the one hand, the minister had procured
the expulsion of Wilkes, on the other hand Wilkes had gained great notoriety and a certain
amount of sympathy, and had, moreover, enriched himself by considerable damages; and again,
if the nation at large was a gainer by the condemnation of general warrants, even that advantage
might be thought to be dearly gained by the discredit into which the Parliament had fallen
through its intemperance. But the contest between Wilkes and the ministry was only closed for
a time; and when it was revived, a singular freak of fortune caused the very minister who had
led the proceedings against him on this occasion to appear as his advocate. To avoid the consequences
of his outlawry, he had taken up his abode in Paris, waiting for a change of ministry, which,
as he hoped, might bring into power some to whom he might look for greater favor. But when,
though in the course of the next two years two fresh administrations were formed, it was seen
that neither Lord Rockingham, the head of the first, nor the Duke of Grafton and Mr. Pitt (promoted
to the Earldom of Chatham), the heads of the second, had any greater sympathy with him than
Mr. Grenville, he became desperate, and looked out for some opportunity of giving effect to
his discontent. He found it in the dissolution of Parliament, which took place in the spring
of 1768. In spite of his outlawry, he instantly returned to England, and offered himself as
a candidate for London. There, indeed, he did not succeed, though the populace was uproarious
in his support, and drew his carriage through the streets as if in triumph. But, before the
end of the month, he was returned at the head of the poll for Middlesex, when the mob celebrated
his victory by great riot and outrages, breaking the windows of Lord Bute, as his old enemy,
and of the Lord Mayor, as the representative of the City of London, which had rejected him,
and insulting, and even in some instances beating, passers-by who refused to join in their
cheers for "Wilkes and Liberty."

