VOL. I.--NO. 36.

       *       *       *       *       *

]

THE MOHAWK BOWMEN.

BY J. O. DAVIDSON.

"Hello, Foster, what's that you're doing?--shooting with a bow and arrows?"

"Yes, Stuart made 'em for me. Come in and try 'em."

Harry came into the yard, where Foster was shooting at a collar box placed on a grassy bank,
and made a few unsuccessful shots at twenty yards, when Foster took the bow, and hit the box
frequently, to Harry's wonder and envy.

"Stuart made 'em for me, and taught me how to handle 'em. He has a bow taller than himself,
over six feet long; and up in the mountains he killed a deer a week ago--killed a deer with
an arrow."

"Do arrows go hard enough to kill? Say, Foster, will Stuart make a bow for me? Won't you ask him?"

"We've got a better thing than that. Stuart wants us to get up an archery club, and he will
show us how to make our own bows and arrows, just as the Indians do. Henry, Fred, Will, and
Ned will join, I know, and then we will have six--just enough to go off hunting on Saturdays,
and have a jolly time. And we'll have a name for the club, and make a regular camp somewhere
near the Glen, and have our dinners there, and our meetings, just as Robin Hood and his men
did in England. How's that, Harry?"

"Best thing out, Foster. But how are we to make our bows, and what shall we make them of?"

"Oh, Stuart has told me all about it. You must pick out the straightest, cleanest sassafras
pole in the hen-house, and get Preston to saw it up into sticks one inch square and five and
a quarter feet long. Then bring them over here, and Stuart will show you how to make a bow.
Stuart will have a lot of pine and spruce sawed up for arrows, and you must get all the goose
and turkey feathers you can, and bring them over too, and he will tell us about arrow-making.
Now go and tell the rest of the boys, and get your sassafras to Preston's as soon as you can.
Perhaps we can get ready to go out Saturday."

After school the next day six eager boys stood around Stuart as he took a sassafras stick,
and showed them how to make a hunting bow, talking as he worked.

"Now look close, youngsters. First plane one side of the stick straight and smooth. This is
to be the 'back' of the bow, and mustn't be touched again. Next mark the middle of the stick,
and lay off four and a half inches to one side for a handle. Then turn the stick on its back,
and plane away the 'belly' of the bow, tapering it truly from handle to 'tip.' Do the same
to the sides, leaving each tip about three-eighths of an inch square. Now take a file or a
spokeshave, and round off the 'sides' and 'belly' carefully, taking care not to touch the 'back'
of the bow. There, the bow is in good shape, but it may not bend truly; so file a notch with
a small round file in each tip half an inch from each extremity, running the groove straight
across the 'back,' and slanting it across the sides away from the tips toward the middle or
handle of the bow. Make a strong string of slack-twisted shoe-maker's thread, with a loop in
each end, so that when the string is put on the bow by slipping the loops into the nocks, it
will bend the bow so much that the middle of the string is five inches from the handle. If
the bow when thus bent is too stiff in any spot, file it a little there till it bends right;
and when it finally bends truly from tip to tip, put on a piece of plush for a handle, and
smooth and polish your bow ready for exhibition. There, Harry, that is your bow. Now one of
you may go to work at another stick, while I go and feather some arrows."

At it Henry went, eager and enthusiastic; but it was a bothersome job for young and inexperienced
hands. The stick would slip, and the plane would stick, in spite of him, and his face grew
very red and his eyes very bright. With Stuart's aid, however, he finally completed a very
fair bow before dark, and when he had actually shot an arrow from it, his worry all vanished,
and he felt very proud of his new weapon.

The following afternoon they all came together, and more bows were made. Under Stuart's direction
arrow shafts were rounded and smoothed, the vanes were cut from the quills, and several fair
arrows completed before separating for their homes, where all, even the staid old grandpas
and grandmas, were infected by the enthusiasm of the boy archers, and Indian stories were told
by the kitchen fire.

By Friday night all the six were armed with sassafras bows, and nicely feathered spruce arrows,
with pewter heads, blunt, that they might not stick into and be lost in the trees. Their quivers
were of pasteboard rolled in glue, upon a tapering form, and their arm-guards of hard thick
leather, securely fastened to their left fore-arms by small straps and buckles. And when, early
Saturday morning, they came together at Foster's house, never was a more gallant squad of young
archers seen. Stumps, trees, late apples, and one or two wandering mice served as marks for
their ready arrows while waiting for the start.

"Here, you boys! shoot them arrers t'other way. They'll spile more'n they're wuth," called
out the good-natured hired man; and Foster raised grandma's ire by driving a shaft up to the
feathers in a golden pumpkin she had selected for seed, and placed on the well curb to "sun."

By the time their haversacks were filled with potatoes, bread, doughnuts, meat, etc., and they
had started for the Glen across lots, shooting as they went, all the family were relieved for
the moment, only to worry the rest of the day lest some unlucky arrow, glancing, should hurt
one of them; and mother's anxiety wasn't relieved when Stuart wickedly told her how Walter
Tyrrel killed King William Rufus with a glancing arrow from his bow while hunting.

The birds and the squirrels that our boys met that day were treated to many a close hissing
arrow, though not many of them suffered, because of the boys' lack of skill with the long-bow.

"Sh-h-h! boys," suddenly whispered Foster, as the little band paused for a moment in a clump
of spruces; and springing noiselessly up, his bow was braced, his arrow fitted, and a stricken
bird was fluttering at their feet in a few seconds. The flutterings of the fallen bird were
more than equalled by those of Foster's heart, as he held the still quivering crow-blackbird
which his arrow had brought from the highest twig of a tall spruce. Proud and exultant, yet
tears glistened in his eyes as he silently gazed upon the soiled plumage of the bird's beautiful
neck and breast, and felt its last faint gaspings as its reproachful eyes became glassy in death.

"The beautiful bird! Oh, I won't shoot another bird," he declared, with quivering lips. "How
pretty it is, and how warm! I'll ask Stuart to stuff it, so that I can keep it forever."

By this time Will's hunger was too much for his archery enthusiasm, and he began to grumble.

"Say, boys, isn't it about time to get to the Glen, and make our camp? I'm getting hungry.
It's hard work drawing this bow of mine, and my arms are tired."

"Yes, let's go to the Glen," said their captain, Foster; and half an hour's silent tramping
in the underbrush and up the rising ground--for they were now pretty tired--brought them to
the spot known as the Glen.

The Glen was a lovely place. A sparkling spring, rising at the base of a giant hemlock at the
head of a long deep gully, had in the course of ages filled in the hollow, till a broad level
floor was made, surrounded by close-growing hemlocks, pines, and spruces, and carpeted with
fine turf and pine needles. The water from the spring, flowing in a shallow brook through the
middle of this floor, lost itself in the dark recesses of the gully further down. At the very
top of the great hemlock by the spring was a rude eyrie, built by the boys, called the Crow's
Nest, and from its swaying, breezy height they had a magnificent view of the country for miles
around. Here, rocking gently and safely, seventy-five feet above the spring, they picked out
their homes, the pretty white villages nestling among the forest masses of green, and the slender
streams glistening among the cultivated fields and neat mowings.

Near the spring was a rude hut that Stuart and his mates had built a few years before. Taking
possession of this, they took off their haversacks, hung their bows and quivers about on projecting
limbs, gathered dry leaves and sticks, and soon had a fire started in a rude stone fireplace.

"Well, my merry bowmen, how do the twanging bow-string and the hissing arrow suit the greenwood?"
asked Stuart, who came up as they lay picturesquely about, waiting for a bed of coals.

"Oh, it is splendid. Isn't it, boys?" answered Will, the oldest of the young archers. "Just
see how pretty the bows and quivers look, hanging among the green branches. How nice this all
is! But what name shall we give our club?"

"Woodland Archers," suggested Ned.

"Mohawk Foresters," added Henry. "We want our river in the name, and the Mohawks were great
warriors."

"Let's call it the Mohawk Bowmen," continued Ned. "That's just the thing." And all agreed to
it, and so Mohawk Bowmen was decided upon as the club name.

"Who'll be captain?" asked Stuart.

"Oh, Foster, of course," answered all at once. "He's the best shot, and ought to be."

By this time the coals were ready, so the potatoes and corn and meat were roasted, amid much
fun and gay talk, and were eaten by the hungry archers. Then, after a rest, the Mohawk Bowmen
ranged the woods and fields till sunset found them at home again, tired, indeed, but enthusiastic
over archery and their day's sport. They agreed it was the happiest day they had ever seen,
and arranged for a grand woodchuck hunt on the following Saturday.

MORNING SIGHTS AND SOUNDS FROM A WINDOW IN JERUSALEM.

BY LYDIA FINKELSTEIN.

The first sound I heard at daybreak, through the window, was the Moslem's call to prayer, from
the minaret, "La Illahâ illa Allah"--"There is no other God but God"--breaking clear and solemn
over the stillness of the early dawn, and waking the echoes of the empty streets. Presently
I heard a footstep in the distance; as it approached nearer, it made the arches resound. I
looked out, and saw a pious Mohammedan hastening to prayer. As he passed under the window I
heard him muttering in a low voice, and caught some sentences of his prayer: "Ya Rahim, ya
Allah" ("O God, the merciful!"). Scarcely had his footsteps died out when I heard the soft
silvery sound of a bell, whose melodious music seemed to roll out like billows into space,
and as the reverberations were carried away to a more distant region, a chime of bells rang
out merrily; these were the matin bells calling the Christians to prayers. The streets and
arches again re-echoed hurrying footsteps, which were those of the Catholic monks hastening
to the Church of the Holy Sepulchre. As they passed the window I could hear the clicking of
their rosaries, and distinguish the words "Dominus, Dominus," muttered in a low voice.

Another sound broke the stillness: "Ya Karim, ya Allah" ("O bountiful God!"). This was a cake
vender, carrying on his head a large wooden tray containing cakes and baked eggs. He uses this
exclamation as an acknowledgment that God is the giver of our daily bread.

"Karim" was still sounding, when I heard a different strain, "Chai chai kirna cha-ee," which
was sung in a sonorous nasal voice. This was a tea man. In one hand he carried a bright brass
tea-urn of boiling water; in the other, several glasses, which he continually jingled against
one another. Fastened round his waist he wore a circular tin case, containing glasses, a tea-pot,
sugar, lemons, and tea-spoons. The tea man continues his walk through the streets till the
day is far advanced, and he meets with a great many customers, for quite a number of Arabs
consider a cup of tea a good remedy for a headache in the morning.

The passers now increased, and they exchanged salutations such as "Nihar saïd!" ("May your
morning be enriched!")

There was a coffee shop opposite the window. This was the earliest opened. The waiters came
out of the store carrying low stools, which they placed outside the shop along the sidewalk.
Their dress was navy blue baggy trousers, which reached a little below the knee; white shirts,
the sleeves of which were rolled over their elbows; crimson girdles, and white skull-caps.
A couple were barefoot, and the others had red shoes on. They moved about lightly as they arranged
the stools for customers.

A tall young man came toward his store, which was a grocery, and next the coffee shop; but
before opening it he sat down on one of the low stools, and was at once served by one of the
waiters with an "argillé," or hubble-bubble, and a cup of coffee. He wore a suit of dark green
cloth, a crimson satin vest, silk girdle of many colors, and a red tarboosh. Another gentleman
came up, dressed in a similar costume, only of a bluish-gray. Before seating himself he saluted
the other by a graceful wave of the hand, saying, "Issalaâm alêk," or "Peace be on you."

"Ou alêk Issalaâm" ("And unto you be peace"), responded the other.

These two are Christians, as can be seen by their dress. Two Mohammedans, dressed very much
like the others, but each wearing a long loose "Jubè" (which is a cloak) over his suit, and
a white turban of fine Swiss muslin wound round his tarboosh, came and took seats, after having
saluted the others with the same beautiful salutations. Many others in various costumes seated
themselves, and conversation became general as they smoked their pipes and sipped their small
cups of coffee.

The sparrows were chirping merrily in the green caper bushes which grew out of the walls of
the old gray houses. From this window I had also an excellent view of the Mount of Olives,
over which I now observed the rosy tint of the rising sun. I watched it, and gradually the
rose deepened into a glowing hue; then the sun rose like a ball of living fire. The towering
minarets and mountain-tops caught the golden rays. The magnificent blue hue of the distant
mountains of Moab reflected the gorgeous gold. The rays were also reflected in the window-panes
of the old gray houses, making them look like molten gold, and the dewy domed roofs like glistening
silver; and as the sun rose higher, he brightened up the fine old stone houses. A majestic
palm-tree, whose green branches were being waved by the soft morning breeze, glittered as the
dew on them was touched by the warm rays.

My notice was now attracted to view the passers. Emerging from under an arch was a grave old
turbaned Turk. He had a long white beard, and wore a suit of dark blue cloth, red silk girdle,
lemon-colored pointed leather shoes, and a tarboosh wound round by a large green turban. This
green turban is a sign that he is a Haj, or one who has been on a pilgrimage to Mohammed's
grave at Mecca.

He moved along slowly and majestically, for in the Orient one never sees an Effendi hurrying
along the streets. However busy men may be, they always walk calmly and leisurely, as if quite
at their ease. Behind this Effendi his slave carried his master's pipe.

Donkeys, mules, horses, and camels were passing, some of the donkeys laden with wood, others
with vegetables, and driven by peasants who were dressed in white shirts reaching below the
knee, their waists encircled by broad red leather belts, while on their heads they wore large
striped silk turbans of bright colors. Their shoes were made of undressed camel's leather,
bound round the edge with yellow leather, and fastened by a latchet made of the same. Probably
this was the same kind of shoe that was worn in the days of John, when he said of our Lord,
"Whose shoe's latchet I am not worthy to unloose."

The mules had small brass bells hung round their necks, which, as they moved along, rung quite
merrily. They were laden with tents and canteens belonging to camp life. Probably some travellers
had arrived from a trip up the country. The camels roared and bellowed, as if they did not
approve coming into the city; they were laden with charcoal, which was in long black sacks.

The gentlemen, after sipping their coffee and smoking their pipes, proceeded to open their
stores, and while doing so, they uttered this prayer, "Bismillah ir ruhman ir raheem" ("In
the name of God, the most merciful").

Peasant women came up, carrying on their heads large brown circular baskets, made of twigs,
about eight inches deep, filled with tempting fruits and salads. It was wonderful how well
they balanced them, for they were walking erect, and very briskly, without holding them. Stopping
under the window, they took the baskets off their heads, and placed them on the ground, sat
down with their backs against the wall, and put them in front of them for sale. They looked
picturesque in their long dark blue gowns, red silk girdles, wide open sleeves displaying their
arms, adorned with bracelets and armlets.

Another young peasant woman came up, not only with a basket of fruit on her head, but a baby
dangling in a hammock down her back. This hammock is an oblong piece of red and white striped
coarse cloth, made out of camel's hair. She placed her basket alongside of the others, and
took out her baby. Soon the baskets were surrounded by eager customers, who had to stoop down
in order to pick out what they wanted. The baby meanwhile fell asleep, and the mother, finding
it an incumbrance while serving her customers, placed it again in its hammock, on which she
had been sitting, and hung it up on the door of one of the neighboring stores.

People passed to and fro, jostling each other as the passers increased; the street looked lively
and gay with such a variety of costumes. Among them were several figures walking slowly along;
they were enveloped in white sheets from head to foot, their faces covered with thick colored
veils, so that it is impossible to distinguish the person. They were Oriental city women. An
Oriental city woman never hurries through the streets, as that would be considered an impropriety.

THE WONDERFUL NEST.

BY MARGARET EYTINGE.

  Oh! the beautiful bright summer,
  Ev'rywhere wild flowers springing;
  Honeysuckles to the roses
  All day long sweet kisses flinging.
  Brooklets sparkling through the meadows,
  Humming-birds their glad way winging
  With gold-brown bees and butterflies
  Where lily-bells are ringing,
        Ringing, ringing--
  Where lily-bells are ringing.

  Sunbeams on the greensward dancing,
  Gentle breezes perfume bringing;
  In the cedar-tree five birdies
  To their wee nest closely clinging;
  Peeping over at the children,
  (Five of them too) laughing, singing.
  In nest most wonderful to see,
  Between the branches swinging,
        Swinging, swinging--
  Between the branches swinging. The boys sprang up in a
terrible fright, and indeed there are few men who in their place would
not have been frightened. The shock of the cold water was enough to
startle the strongest nerves, and as the boys rushed to the door of the
tent, in a blind race for life, they fully believed that their last hour
had come. Before they could get out of the tent, a second wave swept up
and rose above their knees. With wild cries of terror, the two younger
boys caught hold of Tom, and losing their footing, dragged him down.
Harry caught at Tom impulsively, with a vague idea of saving him from
drowning, but the only result of his effort was that he went down with
the rest. Fortunately the wave receded before the boys had time to
drown, and left them struggling in a heap on the wet sand. There was no
return of the water, and in a few moments the boys were outside of the
tent, and on the top of the bluff above the river.

"It must have been a tidal wave," said Jim. "Oh, I'd give anything if I was home! The water
will come up again, and we'll all be drowned!"

"It was the swell of a steamboat," said Tom. "There's the boat now, just going around that point."

"You're right," said Harry. "It was nothing but the swell of the night boat. What precious
fools we were not to think of it before! To-morrow night we'll pitch the tent about a thousand
feet above the water."

"Then there'll be a water-spout or something," said Jim. "We're bound to get wet whatever we
do. We only started yesterday, and here we've been wet through three times."

"And Harry has been wet four times, counting the time he jumped into the Harlem for me," added Joe.

"It won't do to stand here and talk about it," said Tom. "We've got to have a fire, or we'll
freeze. Look at the way Joe's teeth are chattering. The blankets and clothes are all wet, and
the sooner we dry them, the better."

There happened to be a dead tree near by, and it was soon converted into fire-wood. The boys
built a roaring fire on a large flat rock, and after it had burned for a little while, they
pushed it about six feet from the place where they had started it, and after piling fresh fuel
on it, lay down on the hot rock with their feet to the flames. The fire had heated the rock
so that they could hardly bear to touch it; but the heat dried their wet clothes rapidly, and
kept them from taking severe colds. Meanwhile their blankets had been spread out near the fire,
and in half an hour were very nearly dry, and pretty severely scorched. Two large logs were
then rolled on the fire, and when they were in a blaze the boys wrapped themselves in their
blankets, and lying as near to the fire as they could without actually burning, resumed their
interrupted sleep. They found the rock rather a hard bed, and it offered no temptation to laziness;
so it happened that they were all broad awake at half past four; and though somewhat stiff
from lying on a rocky bed, were none the worse for their night's adventure.

"There's one thing I'm going to do this very day," said Harry, as they were dressing themselves
after their morning swim. "I'm going to write to the Department to send us a big rubber bag
that we can put our spare clothes in and keep them dry. There's no fun in being wet and having
nothing dry to put on."

"If we have the bag sent to Albany, it will get there by the time we do," said Tom. "You write
the letter while we are getting breakfast."

So Harry wrote to the Department as follows;

     "DEAR UNCLE JOHN,--We've been wet through with a steamboat once,
     and the tide wet us the first night, and we got rained on, and I
     jumped in to get Joe out, and we've had a gorgeous time. Please
     send us a big water-proof bag to put our spare clothes in, so that
     we can have something dry. Please send it to Albany, and we will
     stop there at the Post-office for it. Please send it right away.
     You said the Department furnished everything. We've been dry twice
     since we started, but it didn't last long. There never was such
     fun. All the boys send their love to you. Please don't forget the
     bag. From your affectionate nephew,

  "HARRY."

"This was the morning that you were going to sleep till eight o'clock without waking up, Harry,"
said Tom, as they were eating their breakfast.

"There's nothing that will wake a fellow up so quick as the Hudson River rolling in on him.
I hadn't expected to wake up in that way," answered Harry.

"So far we have done nothing but find out how stupid we are," said Tom. "Seems to me we must
have found it pretty near all out by this time. There can't be many more stupid things that
we haven't done."

"There won't any accident happen to-night," replied Harry; "for I'll make sure that the tent
is pitched so far from the water that we can't be wet again. I wonder if every fellow learns
to camp out by getting into scrapes as we do. It is very certain that we won't forget what
we learn on this cruise."

"I'm beginning to get tired of ham," exclaimed Joe. "We've been eating ham ever since we started.
Let's get some eggs to-day."

"And some raspberries," suggested Jim. "It's the season for them."

"And let's catch some fish," said Tom.

"That's what we'll do," said Harry. "We'll sail till eleven o'clock, and then we'll go fishing,
and catch our dinner."

This suggestion pleased everybody; and when, at about six o'clock, they set sail, with a nice
breeze from the south, everybody kept a look-out for a good fishing ground, and wondered why
they had not thought of fishing before.

[TO BE CONTINUED.]

THE ROVERINGS' FOURTH.

BY MATTHEW WHITE, JUN.

It had been arranged for weeks beforehand, and the whole family were delighted with the novelty
of the proposition. Mrs. Rovering suggested it on the evening of Decoration-day, as she and
Mr. Rovering and Edward and Edgar sat at the supper table, with patriotic appetites after their
long tramp to and from the soldiers' graves.

"I think," Mrs. Rovering began, as she buttered a biscuit for Edgar--"I think we had better
commemorate the Fourth in a manner that will not so weary us as to-day has done."

The good lady always made use of those words which it seemed she must have gone to the dictionary
and picked out before she began to speak.

"Oh, pa, how many crackers will you give us this year?" burst out Edward.

Mr. Rovering was in the fire-works business, which fact had always been a source of the greatest
satisfaction to his sons, and an awful trial to his wife, who every night expected to see him
brought home in a scattered condition on a stretcher.

"What do you say to our not participating in the annual picnic, as it always rains, and the
silver-plated ware's mislaid, the ants get into the sugar, and the boys into the pond?--what
do you say to foregoing the enjoyment of these sylvan delights, and spending the day in town?
We should thus have an opportunity of observing to how great an extent explosives are used
here, and you could then gauge your manufacture of the articles accordingly. Aha! I have it!"
added the inventive lady, after a moment's reflection. "We'll take the line of cars running
entirely around the city, and so we'll be sure of viewing all sides of the question."

"The very thing!" exclaimed her husband.

In due course the famous national holiday arrived, and at about nine o'clock in the morning
the family sallied forth on their memorable expedition. The two Eds went first, hurling torpedoes
as if they were trade-marks, and now and then touching off a cracker, after having assured
themselves that there was no policeman near. Then came the father and mother, arm in arm, under
a great cotton umbrella, which Mrs. Rovering always insisted should be carried during their
excursions, for fear rain might come on and spoil the silk one.

On reaching the corner where they were to take the car, a discussion arose as to which direction
they should go.

"It doesn't make a particle of difference, so long as we get off," affirmed Mr. Rovering.

"Well, then," rejoined the originator of the expedition, "let's take whichever car comes first."
And this decision would certainly have finally disposed of the matter if at that instant Edward
had not shouted, "Oh, ma, here's a car coming up!" and Edgar, "Oh, pa, here's a car coming
down!" and if, moreover, these two cars had not arrived at that identical corner at one and
the same moment.

They both stopped, and Mr. Rovering cried, "Dear me, Dolly, which shall we take?--which shall
we take?" while Edward hopped up and down on the step of one, and Edgar practiced jumping on
and off the platform of the other.

"Take the one that isn't a 'bobtail,'" returned Mrs. Rovering, composedly.

"But they're both 'bobtails!'" exclaimed her poor husband, in an agony of apprehension lest
the cars should start off, and cause his sons to fall on their pocketfuls of torpedoes.

Finally Mrs. Rovering said, quietly, "We shall ride in the empty one," and this proving to
be the up-bound conveyance, they got in and were off.

"Now, Robert," Mrs. Rovering began, as soon as they had recovered from the shock of starting,
which had sent them all down on the seat like a row of bricks, "don't make a mistake in putting
our fares in the box. Let me see, five, five--yes, both the boys are over five. Have you got
it right?"

But sad to relate, Mr. Rovering had not got it right, for, owing to his wife's constant repetition
of the word five, he had become so confused as to drop twenty-five cents into the box, thinking
there were five in the party.

"Make the driver extricate it for us," suggested Mrs. Rovering; but that individual promptly
replied that he couldn't do it, and coolly proceeded to let the money down into the safe before
their very eyes. But upon this his passengers raised such an outcry of indignation that the
knight of the brake was forced to open the door again, and pacify them by saying they might
take the fare from the next passenger. This appeared to be such a brilliant idea that Mrs.
Rovering was almost inclined to envy the driver's genius.

These cars, although "bobtails," were drawn by two horses, and therefore went along at quite
a respectable rate, but this did not prevent evil-minded youth from hanging on behind in all
the blissful enjoyment of a free ride, and the efforts of the driver to dislodge these highway
boys amused the two Eds not a little. One of his stratagems was to suddenly brake up the car
as though he were going to stop and personally chastise the offenders, while another was to
ring the bell and pretend one of his passengers was about to alight.

But on this occasion there were two boys who persisted in sticking on in spite of everything,
and at last they so exasperated the poor driver that he threw down his reins, and rushed around
to the rear platform with his whip raised.

Now it so happened that the two Eds had been long waiting for this opportunity, and as the
man cut the air with his lash--and the air only, for the young rascals were already half a
block away--Edward and Edgar simultaneously threw down six torpedoes apiece on the front platform,
the effects of which were to send the horses off at a gallop, with the lines about their feet,
and the driver tearing after them in vain.

"Whoa!" shouted Mr. Rovering and the boys.

"Which--where--what shall we do?" groaned Mrs. Rovering, sinking back on the seat, and covering
her face with her hands.

"Stop 'em, somebody. And oh, boys, why did you start 'em?" and Mr. Rovering remained standing
motionless on the platform, casting longing looks at the reins trailing in the street.

"Remember," exclaimed Mrs. Rovering, "we're on the continuous line, and so we'll keep on going
round and round, and never stop! Oh, why did you ever force me to set out upon this unhappy
expedition?"

At this Mr. Rovering grew almost beside himself with despair; and determined on doing something,
he seized the two Eds, and extracting from their pockets every torpedo he could find, flung
the latter, in the heat of his passion, out of the window, which naturally resulted in a report
much louder than the first one, and thus materially quickened the pace of the poor, bewildered
animals.

And now a new danger arose. What if they should catch up to the car ahead?

But, luckily for all concerned, the stables of the company were not far off, and when the horses
reached the car-house they slowed up, and the Roverings were rescued.

"But why didn't you put on the brake?" asked the superintendent.

Sure enough, why hadn't they?

HOW TO BUILD A STEAM-YACHT.

Most of you boys know enough about boats to have built your sloop and schooner yacht, and perhaps
a canoe; now why not go a little farther, and build a steam-yacht? Don't worry about your engine,
boiler, and propeller; these can be bought complete at a low figure--an engine that will reverse,
stop, and send your boat ahead at the rate of two miles an hour.

After taking a good look at the plates, and having made up your mind that you are equal to
the task, go and see your friend the carpenter, and tell him you want a piece of white pine,
free of knots, grain running lengthwise, well seasoned, thirty inches long, seven wide, and
six deep. I speak of white pine, for the reason that it is easy to get, inexpensive, and cuts
easily. Plane the four sides smooth; mark a centre line, AB, on both top and bottom.

The centre of your block must now be marked at right angles to the line AB on top and bottom;
carry this line down the sides as well. This is the line marked X in Plates I. and II. These
are to be marked on top and on both sides. These lines are very important, as the shape of
your boat depends upon them. With a pair of compasses take distances from the line AB, Plate
I., at numbers 1 to 10 respectively, to the line marked SH, and join the points with a straight-edge.
This is your sheer. Work from the bow to about the centre of the block, and then from the stern;
if you attempt to cut from end to end, you will certainly split off too much. Finish this sheer
line with a spokeshave. The lines having been cut off the top of the block, draw them again
on your new surface, as well as the line X and the centre line AB.

Now for Plate II. This gives the shape on deck. Using your compasses again, take the distances
from the line AB on the subdivisions from stem to stern, and join with a curved rule, making
the line HL. Before cutting away the sides of the block, look at Plate IV.; this gives the
shape of the boat amidships. At the line X on deck it is but six inches wide, but it gradually
widens to seven inches. Cut away with a draw-knife from 6 on the line MN to L, Plate II., and
from 5 on MN to H, striking the line HL at 8 in the former, and at 3 in the latter case. The
other side must be cut in the same way. The block had better be put in a bench vise to do this.
You have now your boat in the rough. With a spokeshave round up the sides of the hull to HL.
Turn your boat over, and cut with a saw three and three-quarter inches from the left-hand end,
to a depth of three inches, and split off with a chisel.

