Then the divine Helen, daughter of great Zeus, came and spoke gently to Hector, and said, "O
brother! brother of vile me, who am a dog--would that, when my mother bare me, the storm-wind
had snatched me away to a mountain, or a billow of the loud-roaring sea had swept me away,
before all these evil things had befallen me! Would that I had been mated with a better man
than Paris, whose heart is not sound, and never will be. But come, my brother, and sit by me;
for thou verily hast suffered most for me, who am a dog, and for the grievous sin of Paris,
upon whom, surely, Zeus is bringing evil days; he will be, hereafter, a song of scorn in the
mouths of future men, through all time to come."

But noble Hector answered her, "If thou lovest me, dear Helen, bid me not stay; for I go to
succor my friends, who long for me in my absence. But do thou try and rouse this husband of
thine, and bid him overtake me. As for me, I shall first go to my home, and to my wife and
my little son; for who knoweth whether I shall ever return to them again?"

So spake the glorious Hector, and went his way to his own well-furnished house; but he found
not Andromache there; for she had gone to the tower, with her fair-robed nurse and with her
boy, all bathed in tears. Hector asked the servants whither the white-armed Andromache was
gone; and the busy matron of the house replied, "She is gone to the tower of holy Troy; for
she heard that the Trojans were defeated, and the Achaians victorious." Then Hector returned,
by the same way, down the wide streets, and came to the Scæan Gate.

And his peerless wife, even Andromache, daughter of the high-minded Eëtion, king of Cilicia--she
whom he had won by countless gifts--came running to meet him. And with her came the handmaid,
the nurse, bearing in her arms Hector's tender boy, Astyanax, beautiful as the morning star.
And Hector smiled, and looked on his darling boy, while Andromache stood beside him weeping.
And she clasped his hand, and called him by his name. "O my dear lord, thy dauntless courage
will destroy thee! Hast thou no pity for thy infant child, and for thy hapless wife, who soon
will be a widow? It were far better for me to die, if I lose thee; for nevermore can I know
comfort, but only pain and sorrow. For I shall be utterly alone. I have neither father nor
mother; for Eëtion, my royal sire, was slain by great Achilles. And all my seven brothers went
down to Hades on the selfsame day! they too were slain by swift-footed Pelides. But my mother
was smitten in her father's halls, by the gentle arrows of the archer Artemis. Lo! now, thou
art all in all to me, father, mother, brother, and dearly loved husband! Come, then, take pity
on us, and abide in the tower, and make not thy boy an orphan, and thy wife a widow!"

And the glorious Hector of the glancing helm answered her, and said, "Dear Wife! I too think
of all these things. But how can I shun the battle, like a coward, to be the mock of the Trojans,
and of the Trojan dames with trailing robes? I, who have always fought in the van of battle,
and won glory for my father and myself? I know that the day will come, when sacred Ilium shall
be leveled with the ground, and Priam and the people of Priam shall perish. But it is not so
much the fate of Priam, and of my mother, Hecuba, and of my brethren, which fills my soul with
anguish; but it is thy misery, dear one, in the day when some Achaian warrior shall bear thee
away, weeping, and rob thee of thy freedom. Thou, alas! wilt abide in Argos, and ply the loom,
the slave of another woman; or bear water from the Hypereian fount, being harshly treated!
And one will say, as he looketh upon thee, 'This was the wife of Hector, the foremost of the
horse-taming Trojans in the war round Ilium.' But may the deep earth cover me, ere I hear thee
crying in the day of thy captivity."

So spake he, and held out his arms to take his darling boy. But the child shrank crying, and
nestled in the bosom of his well-girdled nurse; for he feared the horsehair crest, nodding
terribly from the brazen helmet. Then the fond parents laughed; and Hector doffed his helmet,
and laid it on the ground. And he kissed his dear child, and fondled him, and prayed thus to
Zeus:--

"O Zeus! and all ye Gods! grant that this, my son, may like me be foremost to fight among the
Trojans, and rule as a king in Ilium; so that men may say, 'He is far better than his father'!"

Thus speaking, he laid the child in the fragrant bosom of his dear wife Andromache; and he
pitied her, and caressed her with his hand, and called her by her name. "Dear one! be not thus
utterly cast down. No man can slay me till my hour of destiny is come. But no man, when once
he hath been born, can escape his fate, be he a brave man or a coward. Go thou to thy house,
to the distaff and the loom, and make thy maidens ply their labors. But men shall engage in
war, and I the first of all in Troy."

So spake Hector of the glancing helmet, and went his way. And his dear wife went to her home,
looking back at him as she went, shedding bitter tears. And she found her maidens there, and
with them she bewailed her lord, while yet he lived; for they feared that he would never again
return from battle.

And the goodly Paris donned his beautiful armor, and hastened after his brother, whom he overtook,
and he made excuse for his long tarrying. And Hector answered him, "No man can justly speak
lightly of thy deeds, for thou art strong; but thou art slack and careless, and I am grieved
when I hear shameful things said of thee by the Trojans, who for thee bear so much toil. But
let us be going."

So the twain brothers, the glorious Hector and the goodly Paris, went forth to the battle.
And Paris slew Menesthius, of Arne, son of Areïthous; and Hector smote noble Eïoneus in the
neck, and relaxed his limbs in death. And Glaucus, captain of the Lycian allies, cast his spear
at Iphinous, and pierced his shoulder; and he fell from his chariot, and his limbs were loosened.

But when the fierce-eyed Athene saw the Trojans making havoc of the Achaians, she rushed down
from the peaks of Olympus, to sacred Ilium. And Apollo, who favored the Trojans, saw her from
Pergamus, and hastened to meet her; and they met by the beech-tree, and Apollo of the Silver
Bow addressed her: "Why dost thou come, O Daughter of the Loud-Thunderer? Is it to bring victory
to the Greeks? for thou hast no pity on the Trojans. But hearken unto me, and let us stop the
battle for this day--hereafter they shall fight again."

And the fierce-eyed goddess answered him, "Be it so, Far-Darter! for this was my purpose when
I came from high Olympus. But how thinkest thou to make the war to cease?"

Then King Apollo spake. "Let us rouse the valiant spirit of horse-taming Hector, to challenge
one of the Greeks to deadly single combat." And the fierce-eyed Maid assented to his words.

And the dear son of royal Priam, Helenus, the wise augur, who knew the counsel of the Gods,
drew near to Hector, and spake thus to him: "Dear brother, who art peer of Zeus in counsel,
wouldst thou listen to me? Make the Trojans and the Achaians sit down; and do thou challenge
the bravest of the Achaians to meet thee in single combat. I hear the voice of the deathless
Gods, that it is not yet thy lot to die."

And the great Hector rejoiced at his words; and going into the throng, he held back the companies
of the Trojans with his spear, holding it in the middle, and made them all sit down. And Agamemnon
made the well-greaved Achaians sit down. And Athene and Apollo, in the form of vultures, sat
on a lofty tree, and watched the hosts. And Hector stood between the two armies, and spake:
"Hear me, ye Trojans and Achaians! Amongst you are the great chiefs of the Achaians. Now let
one of these be your champion, to fight with me, Hector: and I call Zeus to witness, that if
he slay me, you shall let him carry off my armor, but give my body to the Trojans, that they
may render to me the honor of the funeral pyre. But if the Far-Darter shall grant me glory,
that I may slay him, then will I strip him of his armor, and hang it in the Temple of Apollo;
but his lifeless body I will give back to the long-haired Achaians, that they may bury him,
and build him a barrow by the Hellespont."

Thus spake the glorious Hector; but all were silent; for they were afraid to meet him. Then,
at last, Menelaus, groaning deeply, reproached the Achaians, and said, "O ye women of Achaia,
no longer men! surely this will be an everlasting shame to us, if none of the Greeks dare to
fight with the noble Hector! But I myself will arm me; for the issues of victory are with the
Gods."

And he began to put on his dazzling armor. And now wouldst thou, Menelaus, have yielded up
thy life at the hands of Hector; but the great ruler, Agamemnon, rose up and stayed thee. "Art
thou mad, O foster-son of Zeus? Draw back, though with grief and pain; and think not to fight
with Hector, the man-slaying son of Priam; for he is a far better man than thou, even godlike
Achilles feareth to meet this man in battle. Go then and sit down; and we will choose another
champion."

And the fair-haired Menelaus obeyed his brother's words, and his henchmen gladly took off his
bright armor. And the wise Nestor arose, and upbraided all the Achaian chiefs: "Fie on us!
Shame and lamentation have come upon us all. Surely the aged Peleus, the goodly king of the
Myrmidons, would deeply groan, if he heard that we are all cowering before great Hector; he
would pray that his soul might leave his body and go down to Hades. Would to Zeus, and to Athene
and Apollo, that I were young, as when the Pylians met the Arcadians in battle, and Ereuthalion,
the squire of King Lycurgus of Arcadia, wearing the divine armor of Areïthous, of the iron
mace, before the walls of Pheia, by the waters of Iardanus, challenged all our host; and they
were afraid and trembled. Then I, the youngest of all, stood up and fought with him, and Athene
gave me great glory; for he was the tallest man, and of the greatest bulk, that I have ever
slain. Would that I were still so young and strong! But of you, leaders of the Achaians, not
one has heart enough to meet great Hector."

The wise old man's reproaches filled the Achaian chiefs with shame; and nine of them rose up,
ready to fight; namely, Agamemnon, king of men; and the stalwart Diomedes; and Idomeneus, and
his brother in arms, Meriones, equal in fight to murderous Mars; and Eurypylus, and Thaus,
and the wily Ulysses, and two others. Then Nestor spake again. "Now cast lots for him that
shall be champion." Then each man marked his lot, and threw it into Agamemnon's helmet; and
all men prayed that the lot might fall on Ajax or Diomedes, or the king of rich Mycenæ. Then
Nestor shook the helmet, and the lot of Ajax leapt out; and the herald placed it in the hand
of mighty Ajax, and he was glad; for he said, "I think that I shall vanquish goodly Hector."
And they all prayed to the Son of Cronos, to give victory to Ajax, or to grant unto each of
them equal glory and renown.

Then huge Ajax donned his bright armor of bronze, and came forth like the war-god Mars when
he goeth to battle. The Achaians were glad, but the Trojans trembled; and even the brave Hector
felt his heart beat quicker in his breast. But he would not shrink from the combat, seeing
that he had himself challenged all the Achaians. And Ajax came on, bearing a mighty shield,
like a tower, which Tychius, the cunning leather-worker, had made for him, of sevenfold hides
of lusty bulls, all overlaid with bronze. And he stood near godlike Hector, and spake: "Now
shalt thou see what manner of men the Greeks have among them, even now when Achilles, the lion-hearted,
hath left us in his wrath. But do thou begin the fight!"

And Hector answered him, "Great Ajax, son of Telamon, sprung from Zeus! speak not to me as
if I were a poor weak boy, or a woman! for I too have knowledge of war and slaughter. I know
how to charge into the midst of the chariots, or, at close quarters, to join in the wild dance
of Mars." He said, and hurled his long-shafted spear, and struck the sevenfold shield of Ajax;
it passed through six folds, but was stopped by the seventh.

Then Ajax, sprung from Zeus, threw his ponderous lance at the shield of mighty Priam's son.
It passed right through the bright shield, and through the well-wrought corselet, and rent
his tunic; but he swerved aside, and escaped gloomy death. Then the two fell upon each other,
like ravening lions or wild boars; and Hector smote the shield of Ajax with his spear, but
the sharp point was turned by the stout buckler. Then Ajax leapt upon him, and drove his spear
at Hector's neck, making a wound from which the dark blood flowed.

But Hector, undismayed, took up a great stone from the ground, and with it smote the boss of
Ajax's shield. And Ajax heaved up a far bigger stone and threw it on the buckler of Hector,
and it fell on him like a huge millstone, and stretched him on his back! But Apollo raised
him, and set him on his legs again.

Then they would have furiously attacked each other with their swords, had not the Achaian herald,
Talthybius, and the Trojan herald, Idaius, intervened and stopped the fight, holding their
staves of office between the godlike warriors; and Idaius spake to them: "Fight no longer,
brave youths; for Zeus loveth you both; and we know well what gallant warriors ye are. Night
is upon us, whose commands it behooveth us to obey."

And the Telamonian Ajax answered, "Let Hector say those words; for it was he who challenged us."

And Hector of the shining helmet said, "Ajax, since thou hast received strength and wisdom
from the Gods, and dost excel all the Achaians in the fight, let us now cease from battle for
the day, and hereafter we will fight again, until the Gods shall give victory to one of us.
Go now, and rejoice thy friends and kinsmen by the ships, and I will gladden the hearts of
Trojan men and long-robed dames in the holy city of King Priam. But now let us exchange costly
gifts, that Trojans and Achaians may say of us that we, having met in this heart-gnawing strife,
have parted like good friends." He spake, and gave to Ajax a silver-studded sword; and Ajax
gave him a purple belt. So they parted, and went their way; the one to the ships of the Achaians,
and the other to the holy city of Troy. And the Trojans rejoiced that Hector had escaped unhurt
from the unapproachable hands of mighty Ajax.

THE DEATH OF PATROCLUS AND THE BATTLE OF THE RIVER

By Alfred J. Church

Patroclus came and stood by the side of Achilles weeping. Then said Achilles, "What ails thee,
Patroclus, that thou weepest like a girl-child that runs along by her mother's side, and would
be taken up, holding her gown, and looking at her with tearful eyes till she lift her in her
arms? Hast thou heard evil news from Phthia? Menoetius yet lives, they say, and Peleus. Or
art thou weeping for the Greeks, because they perish for their folly?"

Then said Patroclus, "Be not wroth with me, great Achilles, for indeed the Greeks are in grievous
straits, and all their bravest are wounded, and still thou cherishest thy wrath. Surely Peleus
was not thy father, nor Thetis thy mother; but the rocks begat thee, and the sea brought thee
forth. Or if thou goest not to battle, fearing some warning from the Gods, yet let me go, and
thy Myrmidons with me. And let me put thy armor on me; so shall the Greeks have breathing-space
from the war."

So he spake, entreating, nor knew that for his own doom he entreated. And Achilles made reply,--

"It is no warning that I heed, that I keep back from the war. But these men took from me my
prize, which I won with my own hands. But let the past be past. I said I would not rise up
till the battle should come nigh to my own ships. But thou mayest put my armor upon thee, and
lead my Myrmidons to the fight. For in truth the men of Troy are gathered as a dark cloud about
the ships, and the Greeks have scarce standing-ground between them and the sea. For they see
not the gleam of my helmet. And Diomed is not there with his spear; nor do I hear the voice
of Agamemnon, but only the voice of Hector as he calls the men of Troy to the battle. Go, therefore,
Patroclus, and drive the fire from the ships. And then come thou back, nor fight any more with
the Trojans, lest thou take my glory from me. And go not near, in the delight of the battle,
to the walls of Troy, lest one of the Gods meet thee to thy hurt; and, of a truth, the keen
Archer Apollo loves the Trojans well."

But as they talked the one to the other, Ajax could hold out no longer. For swords and javelins
came thick upon him, and clattered on his helmet, and his shoulder was weary with the great
shield which he held; and he breathed heavily and hard, and the great drops of sweat fell upon
the ground. Then at the last Hector came near and smote his spear with a great sword, so that
the head fell off. Then was Ajax sore afraid, and gave way, and the men of Troy set torches
to the ship's stem, and a great flame shot up to the sky. And Achilles saw it, and smote his
thigh and spake:--

"Haste thee, Patroclus, for I see the fire rising up from the ships. Put thou on the armor,
and I will call my people to the war." So Patroclus put on the armor--corselet, and shield,
and helmet--and bound upon his shoulder the silver-studded sword, and took a mighty spear in
his hand. But the great Pelian spear he took not, for that no man but Achilles might wield.
Then Automedon yoked the horses to the chariot, Bayard and Piebald, and with them in the side
harness, Pedasus; and they two were deathless steeds, but he was mortal.

Meanwhile Achilles had called the Myrmidons to battle. Fifty ships had he brought to Troy,
and in each there were fifty men. Five leaders they had, and the bravest of the five was Pisander.

Then Achilles said, "Forget not, ye Myrmidons, the bold words that ye spake against the men
of Troy during the days of my wrath, making complaint that I kept you from the battle against
your will. Now, therefore, ye have that which you desired."

So the Myrmidons went to the battle in close array, helmet to helmet, and shield to shield,
close as the stones with which a builder builds a wall. And in front went Patroclus, and Automedon
in the chariot beside him. Then Achilles went to his tent and took a great cup from the chest,
which Thetis his mother had given him. Now no man drank of that cup but he only, nor did he
pour out of it libations to any of the Gods, but only to Zeus. This first he cleansed with
sulphur, and then with water from the spring. And after this he washed his hands, and stood
in the midst of the space before his tent, and poured out of it to Zeus, saying, "O Zeus, I
send my comrade to this battle; make him strong and bold, and give him glory, and bring him
home safe to the ships, and my people with him."

So he prayed, and Father Zeus heard him, and part he granted and part denied.

But now Patroclus with the Myrmidons had come to where the battle was raging about the ship
of Protesilaus, and when the men of Troy beheld him they thought that Achilles had forgotten
his wrath and was come forth to the war. And first Patroclus slew Pyræchmes, who was the chief
of the Pæonians who live on the banks of the broad Axius. Then the men of Troy turned to flee,
and many chiefs of fame fell by the spears of the Greeks. So the battle rolled back to the
trench, and in the trench many chariots of the Trojans were broken, but the horses of Achilles
went across it at a stride, so nimble were they and strong. And the heart of Patroclus was
set to slay Hector; but he could not overtake him, so swift were his horses. Then did Patroclus
turn his chariot, and keep back those that fled, that they should not go to the city, and rushed
hither and thither, still slaying as he went.

But Sarpedon, when he saw the Lycians dismayed and scattered, called to them that they should
be of good courage, saying that he would himself make trial of this great warrior. So he leapt
down from his chariot, and Patroclus also leapt down, and they rushed at each other as two
eagles rush together. Then first Patroclus struck down Thrasymelus, who was the comrade of
Sarpedon; and Sarpedon, who had a spear in either hand, with the one struck the horse Pedasus,
which was of mortal breed, on the right shoulder, and with the other missed his aim, sending
it over the left shoulder of Patroclus. But Patroclus missed not his aim, driving his spear
into Sarpedon's heart. Then fell the great Lycian chief, as an oak, or a poplar, or a pine
falls upon the hills before the axe. But he called to Glaucus, his companion, saying, "Now
must thou show thyself a good warrior, Glaucus. First call the men of Lycia to fight for me,
and do thou fight thyself, for it would be foul shame to thee, all thy days, if the Greeks
should spoil me of my arms."

Then he died. But Glaucus was sore troubled, for he could not help him, so grievous was the
wound where Teucer had wounded him. Therefore he prayed to Apollo, and Apollo helped him and
made him whole. Then he went first to the Lycians, bidding them fight for their king, and then
to the chiefs of the Trojans, that they should save the body of Sarpedon. And to Hector he
said, "Little carest thou for thy allies. Lo! Sarpedon is dead, slain by Patroclus. Suffer
not the Myrmidons to carry him off and do dishonor to his body."

But Hector was troubled to hear such news, and so were all the sons of Troy, for Sarpedon was
the bravest of the allies, and led most people to the battle. So with a great shout they charged,
and drove the Greeks back a space from the body; and then again the Greeks did the like. And
so the battle raged, till no one would have known the great Sarpedon, so covered was he with
spears and blood and dust. But at the last the Greeks drave back the men of Troy from the body,
and stripped the arms, but the body itself they harmed not. For Apollo came down at the bidding
of Zeus, and carried it out of the midst of the battle, and washed it with water, and anointed
it with ambrosia, and wrapped it in garments of the Gods. And then he gave it to Sleep and
Death, and these two carried it to Lycia, his fatherland.

Then did Patroclus forget the word which Achilles had spoken to him, that he should not go
near to Troy, for he pursued the men of the city even to the wall. Thrice he mounted on the
angle of the wall, and thrice Apollo himself drove him back, pushing his shining shield. But
the fourth time the god said, "Go thou back, Patroclus. It is not for thee to take the city
of Troy; no, nor for Achilles, who is far better than thou art."

So Patroclus went back, fearing the wrath of the archer god. Then Apollo stirred up the spirit
of Hector, that he should go against Patroclus. Therefore he went, with his brother Cebriones
for driver of his chariot. But when they came near, Patroclus cast a great stone which he had
in his hand, and smote Cebriones on the forehead, crushing it in, so that he fell headlong
from the chariot. And Patroclus mocked him, saying,--

"How nimble is this man! how lightly he dives! What spoil he would take of oysters, diving
from a ship, even in a stormy sea! Who would have thought that there were such skillful divers
in Troy!"

Then again the battle waxed hot about the body of Cebriones, and this too, at the last, the
Greeks drew unto themselves, and spoiled it of the arms. And this being accomplished, Patroclus
rushed against the men of Troy. Thrice he rushed, and each time he slew nine chiefs of fame.
But the fourth time Apollo stood behind him and struck him on the head and shoulders, so that
his eyes were darkened. And the helmet fell from off his head, so that the horse-hair plumes
were soiled with dust. Never before had it touched the ground, for it was the helmet of Achilles.
And also the god brake the spear in his hand, and struck the shield from his arms, and loosed
his corselet. All amazed he stood, and then Euphorbus, son of Panthous, smote him on the back
with his spear, but slew him not. Then Patroclus sought to flee to the ranks of his comrades.
But Hector saw him, and thrust at him with his spear, smiting him in the groin, so that he
fell. And when the Greeks saw him fall, they sent up a terrible cry. Then Hector stood over
him and cried,--

"Didst thou think to spoil our city, Patroclus, and to carry away our wives and daughters in
the ships? But lo! I have slain thee, and the fowls of the air shall eat thy flesh; nor shall
the great Achilles help thee at all,--Achilles, who bade thee, I trow, strip the tunic from
my breast, and thou thoughtest in thy folly to do it."

But Patroclus answered, "Thou boasteth much, Hector. Yet thou didst not slay me, but Apollo,
who took from me my arms, for had twenty such as thou met me, I had slain them all. And mark
thou this: death and fate are close to thee by the hand of the great Achilles."

And Hector answered, but Patroclus was dead already, "Why dost thou prophesy death to me? Maybe
the great Achilles himself shall fall by my hand." Then he drew his spear from the wound, and
went after Automedon, to slay him, but the swift horse of Achilles carried him away.

Fierce was the fight about the body of Patroclus, and many heroes fell, both on this side and
on that.

Meanwhile Antilochus, son of Nestor, ran to Achilles and said, "I bring ill news; Patroclus
lies low. The Greeks fight for his body, but Hector hath his arms."

Then Achilles took of the dust of the plain in his hand, and poured it on his head, and lay
at his length upon the ground, and tare his hair. And all the women wailed. And Antilochus
sat weeping; but ever he held the hands of Achilles, lest he should slay himself in his great
grief.

Then came his mother, hearing his cry, from where she sat in the depths of the sea, and laid
her hand on him and said,--

"Why weepest thou, my son? Hide not the matter from me, but tell me."

And Achilles answered, "All that Zeus promised thee for me he hath fulfilled. But what profit
have I, for my friend Patroclus is dead, and Hector has the arms which I gave him to wear.
And as for me, I care not to live, except I can avenge me upon him."

Then said Thetis, "Nay, my son, speak not thus. For when Hector dieth, thy doom also is near."

And Achilles spake in great wrath: "Would that I might die this hour, seeing that I could not
help my friend, but am a burden on the earth,--I, who am better in battle than all the Greeks
besides. Cursed be the wrath that sets men to strive the one with the other, even as it set
me to strive with King Agamemnon! But let the past be past. And as for my fate--let it come
when it may, so that I first avenge myself on Hector. Wherefore, seek not to keep me back from
the battle."

Then Thetis said, "Be it so; only thou canst not go without thy arms which Hector hath. But
to-morrow will I go to Vulcan, that he may furnish thee anew."

But while they talked the men of Troy pressed the Greeks more and more, and the two heroes,
Ajax the Greater and Ajax the Less, could no longer keep Hector back, but that he should lay
hold of the body of Patroclus. And indeed he would have taken it, but that Zeus sent Iris to
Achilles, who said,--

"Rouse thee, son of Peleus, or Patroclus will be a prey for the dogs of Troy."

But Achilles said, "How shall I go?--for arms have I none, nor know I whose I might wear. Haply
I could shift with the shield of Ajax, son of Telamon, but he, I know, is carrying it in the
front of the battle."

Then answered Iris, "Go only to the trench and show thyself; so shall the men of Troy tremble
and cease from the battle, and the Greeks shall have breathing-space."

So he went, and Athene put her ægis about his mighty shoulders, and a golden halo about his
head, making it shine as a flame of fire, even as the watch-fires shine at night from some
city that is beseiged. Then went he to the trench; with the battle he mingled not, heeding
his mother's commands, but he shouted aloud, and his voice was as the sound of a trumpet. And
when the men of Troy heard, they were stricken with fear, and the horses backed with the chariots,
and the drivers were astonished when they saw the flaming fire above his head which Athene
had kindled. Thrice across the trench the great Achilles shouted, and thrice the men of Troy
fell back. And that hour there perished twelve chiefs of fame, wounded by their own spears
or trampled by their own steeds, so great was the terror among the men of Troy.

Right gladly did the Greeks take Patroclus out of the press. Then they laid him on a bier,
and carried him to the tent, Achilles walking with many tears by his side.

But on the other side the men of Troy held an assembly. Standing they held it, for none dared
to sit, lest Achilles should be upon them.

Then spake Polydamas: "Let us not wait here for the morning. It was well for us to fight at
the ships while Achilles yet kept his wrath against Agamemnon. But now it is not so, for to-morrow
he will come against us in his anger, and many will fall before him. Wherefore, let us go back
to the city, for high are the walls and strong the gates, and he will perish before he pass them."

Then said Hector, "This is ill counsel, Polydamas. Shall we shut ourselves up in the city,
where all our goods are wasted already, buying meat for the people? Nay, let us watch to-night,
and to-morrow will we fight with the Greeks. And if Achilles be indeed come forth from his
tent, be it so. I will not shun to meet him, for Mars gives the victory now to one man and
now to another."

So he spake, and all the people applauded, not knowing what the morrow should bring forth.

Thus did it come to pass that Achilles went again into the battle, eager above all things to
meet with Hector and to slay him.

But Apollo stood by Æneas, and spake to him: "Æneas, where are now thy boastings that thou
wouldst meet Achilles face to face?"

Then Æneas answered, "Nay, I have stood up against him in the day when he took the town of
Lyrnessus. But I fled before him, and only my nimble feet saved me from falling by his spear.
Surely a god is ever with him, making his spear to fly aright."

Him Apollo answered again, "Thou, too, art the son of a goddess, and thy mother is greater
than his, for she is but a daughter of the sea. Drive straight at him with thy spear, and let
not his threats dismay thee."

Then Æneas stood out from the press to meet Achilles and Achilles said, "Fightest thou with
me because thou hopest to reign over the men of Troy, or have they given thee a choice portion
of ground, ploughland and orchard, to be thine when thou hast slain me? Thou wilt not find
it easy. Dost thou not remember how thou fleddest before me in the day that I took Lyrnessus?"

Then Æneas answered, "Think not to terrify me with words, son of Peleus, for I, too, am the
son of a goddess. Let us make a trial one of the other."

Then he cast his spear, and it struck the shield of Achilles with so dreadful a sound that
the hero feared lest it should pierce it through, knowing not that the gifts of the Gods are
not easy for mortal man to vanquish. Two folds, indeed, it pierced, that were of bronze, but
in the gold it was stayed, and there were yet two of tin within. Then Achilles cast his spear.
Through the shield of Æneas it passed, and though it wounded him not, yet was he sore dismayed,
so near it came. Then Achilles drew his sword, and rushed on Æneas, and Æneas caught up a great
stone to cast at him. But it was not the will of the Gods that Æneas should perish, seeing
that he and his sons after him should rule over the men of Troy in the ages to come. Therefore
Neptune lifted him up, and bore him over the ranks of men to the left of the battle, but first
he drew the spear out of the shield, and laid it at the feet of Achilles. Much the hero marveled
to see it, crying, "This is a great wonder that I behold with mine eyes. For I see my spear
before me, but the man whom I sought to slay, I see not. Of a truth Æneas spake truth, saying
that he was dear to the immortal Gods."

Then he rushed into the battle, slaying as he went. And Hector would have met him, but Apollo
stood by him and said, "Fight not with Achilles, lest he slay thee." Therefore he went back
among the men of Troy. Many did Achilles slay, and among them Polydorus, son of Priam, who,
because he was the youngest and very dear, his father suffered not to go to the battle. Yet
he went, in his folly, and being very swift of foot, he trusted in his speed, running through
the foremost of the fighters. But as he ran Achilles smote him and wounded him to the death.
When Hector saw it, he could not bear any more to stand apart. Therefore he rushed at Achilles,
and Achilles rejoiced to see him, saying, "This is the man who slew my comrade;" and to Hector
he cried, "Come hither, and taste of death."

And Hector made answer, "Son of Peleus, seek not to make me afraid with words. For though I
be weaker than thou, yet victory lieth on the knees of the Gods, and I, too, bear a spear."

Then he cast his spear, but Athene turned it aside with her breath, and laid it again at his
feet. And when Achilles leapt upon Hector with a shout, Apollo snatched him away. Three times
did Achilles leap upon him, and three times he struck only the mist. But the fourth time he
cried with a terrible voice, "Dog, thou hast escaped from death, Apollo helping thee; but I
shall meet thee again, and make an end of thee."

Then Achilles turned to the others, and slew multitudes of them, so that they fled, some across
the plain, and some to the river, the eddying Xanthus. And these leapt into the water as locusts
leap into a river when a fire which men light drives them from the fields. And all the river
was full of horses and men. Then Achilles leapt into the stream, leaving his spear on the bank,
resting on the tamarisk trees. Only his sword had he, and with this he slew many; and they
were as fishes which fly from some great dolphin in the sea. In all the bays of a harbor they
hide themselves, for the great beast devours them apace. So did the Trojans hide themselves
under the banks of the river. And when Achilles was weary of slaying, he took twelve alive,
whom he would slay on the tomb of Patroclus.

Yet there was one man who dared to stand up against him, while the others fled. This was Asteropæus,
who was the grandson of the river-god Axius, and led the men of Pæonia. And Achilles wondered
to see him, and said, "Who art thou that standest against me?"

And he said, "I am the grandson of the river-god Axius, fairest of all the streams on the earth,
and I lead the men of Pæonia."

And as he spake he cast two spears, one with each hand, for he could use either alike; and
the one struck the shield, nor pierced it through, for the gold staved it, and the other grazed
the right hand of Achilles so that the blood spurted forth. Then did Achilles cast his spear,
but missed his aim, and the great spear stood fast in the bank. And thrice Asteropæus strove
to draw it forth. Thrice he strove in vain, and the fourth time he strove to break the spear.
But as he strove Achilles smote him that he died. Yet had he some glory, for that he wounded
the great Achilles.

When the River saw that Asteropæus was dead, and that Achilles was slaying many of the Pæonians--for
these were troubled, their chief being dead--he took upon him the shape of a man, and spake
to Achilles, saying, "Truly, Achilles, thou excellest all other men in might and deeds of blood,
for the Gods themselves protect thee. It may be that Zeus hath given thee to slay all the sons
of Troy; nevertheless, depart from me and work thy will upon the plain; for my stream is choked
with the multitude of corpses, nor can I pass to the sea. Do thou, therefore, cease from troubling
me."

To him Achilles made answer, "This shall be as thou wilt, O Scamander. But the Trojans I will
not cease from slaying till I have driven them into their city and have made trial of Hector,
whether I shall vanquish him or he shall vanquish me."

And as he spake he sped on, pursuing the Trojans. Then the River cried to Apollo, "Little thou
doest the will of thy father, thou of the Silver Bow, who bade thee stand by the men of Troy
and help them till darkness should cover the land." And he rushed on with a great wave, stirring
together all his streams. The dead bodies he threw upon the shore, roaring as a bull roareth;
and them that lived he hid in the depths of his eddies. And all about Achilles rose up the
flood, beating full upon his shield, so that he could not stand fast upon his feet. Then Achilles
laid hold of a lime-tree, fair and tall, that grew upon the bank; but the tree brake therefrom
with all its roots, and tare down the bank, and lay across the River, staying its flood, for
it had many branches. Thereupon Achilles leapt out of the water and sped across the plain,
being sore afraid. But the River ceased not from pursuing him, that he might stay him from
slaughter and save the sons of Troy. So far as a man may throw a spear, so far did Achilles
leap; strong as an eagle was he, the hunting-bird that is the strongest and swiftest of all
birds. And still as he fled the River pursued after him with a great roar. Even as it is with
a man that would water his garden, bringing a stream from a fountain; he has a pick-axe in
his hand to break down all that would stay the water; and the stream runs on, rolling the pebbles
along with it, and overtakes him that guides it. Even so did the River overtake Achilles, for
all that he was swift of foot, for indeed the Gods are mightier than men. And when Achilles
would have stood against the River, seeking to know whether indeed all the Gods were against
him, then the great wave smote upon his shoulders; and when he leapt into the air, it bowed
his knees beneath him and devoured the ground from under his feet. Then Achilles looked up
to heaven and groaned, crying out, "O Zeus, will none of the Gods pity me, and save me from
the River? I care not what else may befall me. Truly my mother hath deceived me, saying that
I should perish under the walls of Troy by the arrows of Apollo. Surely it had been better
that Hector should slay me, for he is the bravest of the men of Troy, but now I shall perish
miserably in the River, as some herd-boy perisheth whom a torrent sweeps away in a storm."

So he spake; but Poseidon and Athene stood by him, having taken upon them the shape of men,
and took him by the hand and strengthened him with comforting words, for Poseidon spake, saying,
"Son of Peleus, tremble not, neither be afraid. It is not thy fate to be mastered by the River.
He shall soon cease from troubling thee. And do thou heed what we say. Stay not thy hands from
the battle, till thou shalt have driven all the sons of Troy that escape thee within the walls
of the city. And when thou shalt have slain Hector, go back to the ships; for this day is the
day of thy glory."

Then the two departed from him. Now all the plain was covered with water, wherein floated much
fair armor and many dead bodies. But Achilles went on even against the stream, nor could the
River hold him back; for Athene put great might into his heart. Yet did not Scamander cease
from his wrath, but lifted his waves yet higher, and cried aloud to Simois, "Dear brother,
let us two stay the fury of this man, or else of a surety he will destroy the city of Priam.
Come now, fill all thy streams and rouse thy torrents against him, and lift up against him
a mighty wave with a great concourse of tree-trunks and stones, that we may stay this wild
man from his fighting. Very high thoughts hath he, even as a god; yet shall neither his might
nor his beauty nor his fair form profit him; for they shall be covered with much mud; and over
himself will I heap abundance of sand beyond all counting. Neither shall the Greeks be able
to gather his bones together, with such a heap will I hide them. Surely a great tomb will I
build for him; nor will his people have need to make a mound over him when they would bury him."

Then he rushed again upon Achilles, swelling high with foam and blood and dead bodies of men.
Very dark was the wave as it rose, and was like to have overwhelmed the man, so that Juno greatly
feared for him, lest the River should sweep him away. And she cried to Vulcan, her son, saying,
"Rouse thee, Haltfoot, my son! I thought that thou wouldst have been a match for Scamander
in battle. But come, help us, and bring much fire with thee; and I will call the west wind
and the south wind from the sea, with such a storm as shall consume the sons of Troy, both
them and their arms. And do thou burn the trees that are by the banks of Xanthus, yea, and
the River himself. And let him not turn thee from thy purpose by fury or by craft; but burn
till I shall bid thee cease."

Then Vulcan lit a great fire. First he burned the dead bodies that lay upon the plain, and
it dried all the plain, as the north wind in the autumn time dries a field, to the joy of him
that tills it. After this it laid hold of the River. The lime-trees and the willows and the
tamarisks it burned; also the plants that grew in the streams. And the eels and the fishes
were sore distressed, twisting hither and thither in the water, being troubled by the breath
of Vulcan. So the might of the River was subdued, and he cried aloud, "O Vulcan, no one of
the Gods can match himself with thee. Cease now from consuming me; and Achilles may drive the
men of Troy from their city if he will. What have I to do with the strife and sorrow of men?"

So he spake, for all his streams were boiling--as a cauldron boils with a great fire beneath
it, when a man would melt the fat of a great hog; nor could he flow any longer to the sea,
so sorely did the breath of the Fire-god trouble him. Then he cried aloud to Juno, entreating
her: "O Juno, why doth thy son torment me only among all? Why should I be blamed more than
others that help the men of Troy? Verily, I will cease from helping them, if he also will cease.
Nay, I will swear a great oath that I will keep no more the day of doom from the sons of Troy;
no, not when all the city shall be consumed with fire."

And Queen Juno heard him, and called to Vulcan, saying, "Cease, my son; it doth not beseem
thee to work such damage to a god for the sake of a mortal man."

So Vulcan quenched his fire, and the River flowed as he flowed before.

VULCAN MAKES ARMOR FOR ACHILLES

By Walter C. Perry

On high Olympus, the Loud-thundering Zeus spake mockingly to his consort, Juno, and said, "At
length, thou hast what thou desirest, and hast roused Achilles to fight against the Trojans.
Surely, the long-haired Achaians must be thine own children, since thou lovest them so dearly!"

And the ox-eyed queen replied, "Dread son of Cronos! what words are these which have passed
the barrier of thy teeth? Even a mortal man doth what he can to help another; and shall not
I, the chief of goddesses by birth and as thy wife--O thou king of the deathless Gods!--shall
not I avenge myself upon the men of Troy?"

Thus these two strove with one another.

Meantime, the silver-footed Thetis came to the splendid palace of Vulcan, bright and immortal,
which shone like a star among the mansions of the Gods. She found him at his bellows, sweating
from his mighty toil; for he was forging twenty tripods, to stand round the walls of his well-built
mansion. Beneath each of them he placed wheels of gold; and they move, of themselves, into
the assembly of the Gods, and so return.

While he was thus employed, the silver-footed Thetis approached the house. And Charis, of the
shining veil, the wedded wife of Vulcan (whose first wife had been Aphrodite or Venus), came
forth to meet her, and took her by the hand, and called her by her name. "O long-robed Thetis!
dear and honored as thou art! not oft, I ween, dost thou come to visit us. But follow me, that
I may show thee due hospitality."

Then she led the way in, and seated Thetis on a lofty chair with silver studs, beautiful, and
cunningly wrought, and placed a footstool beneath her shining feet. And she called to Vulcan,
the divine artificer, "Come hither, Vulcan! for the silver-footed Thetis seeketh thine aid."

And the glorious lame god answered, "Revered and dear to me is she; for she saved me, when
my shameless mother threw me down from heaven; and I should have suffered dire anguish had
not Eurynome, daughter of Oceanos, and Thetis taken me to their hearts and comforted me. Nine
years I spent with them, and fashioned all kinds of curious work of bronze--clasps, and spiral
bracelets, and ear-rings, like the calyx of a flower, and necklaces--in the hollow grot, while
all around me roared the streams of great Oceanus. And none of the other Gods knew where I
was, but only Thetis and Eurynome. And now that she is come, a welcome guest, to my house,
I will repay the fair-haired nymph in every way, for saving my life."

So saying, he raised his mighty bulk from the block, and, limping on his slender legs, moved
quickly; and he put away his bellows, and placed his tools in a silver chest, and sponged his
face and hands, his strong neck and hairy breast; then he donned his tunic, and leaning on
a staff, he limped along. And golden handmaids, in the form of living maidens, came to help
their lord; these have intelligent minds, and human voices, and skill from the deathless Gods.
And he went with halting gait, and seated himself on a shining throne, near the silver-footed
Thetis; and he took her by the hand, and said to her, "O dear and honored Thetis of the flowing
robes! why comest thou to our house, thou, an infrequent guest?"

Then the silver-footed goddess answered him, "O Vulcan! hath Zeus, the son of Cronos, laid
on any other goddess in Olympus such grievous woes as on me, unhappy that I am? He chose out
me, from all the sea nymphs, to endure marriage with a mortal. A son I bare, the greatest of
heroes. I brought him up, like a young tree in a fruitful soil, and sent him in a high-peaked
ship to war against the Trojans; but never again will he return to me, in the halls of his
aged father Peleus. And even while I yet see him, and he beholdeth the light of the sun, he
is full of grief, and I cannot help him. For King Agamemnon took away his prize, the dearly
loved maiden Briseïs. For the loss of her, he pined and wept; nor would he allow his Myrmidons
to join in the battle, though the Achaians were hard pressed and driven to their ships. The
chiefs of the Argives came to him with prayers and tears, and many costly gifts. And though
he refused himself to rescue them, he suffered Patroclus to put on his divine armor, and sent
many of the Myrmidons with him to the battle. And the son of Menoetius performed high deeds
of valor, and went near to sack the city. But the Far-Darting Apollo and glorious Hector slew
him, and gained immortal glory. And now, I come as a suppliant, to clasp thy knees, and to
pray that thou wouldst give my short-lived son a shield, a helmet, a breastplate, and goodly
greaves."

Then the lame god, the famous artificer, replied, "Be of good cheer, O silver-footed Queen,
and be not troubled about these things! Would that I could as surely save him from mournful
death, as that I will supply him with goodly armor, a wonder to behold!"

And he returned to his workshop, and bade his bellows--there were twenty of them--blow the
blasts on the fire and prepare the earthen moulds; and as Vulcan willed, the work was done.
He melted the tough bronze and tin, the gold and silver, with the fire; and placed an anvil
and took a strong hammer in one hand, and tongs in the other, and with these he worked.

First, he made the shield, broad and strong, with many decorations. Around it he placed a triple
bright rim, and a silver strap depended from it. The shield itself was formed with five zones,
in each of which he fashioned many curious works.

Therein he fashioned the Earth, the Sky, the Sea, the unwearied Sun, the Moon at the full,
and all the bright luminaries which crown the azure firmament: the Pleiades, daughters of Atlas,
the Hyades, the mighty Orion, and, turning about to watch Orion, the Bear, which alone of all
the stars bathes not in the streams of Oceanus.

Also, on the shield, he sculptured two fair cities of articulate-speaking men. In one of these
were wedding-festivals; and, with a blaze of torchlight, the brides were conducted from their
chambers along the streets; while the hymeneal song was loud, and the youths whirled round
and round in the giddy dance, to the music of flute and harp; while the women stood at their
doors, watching and admiring. In that city he also fashioned an assembly of the people, in
which a contention had arisen, about the blood-fine or "were-geld" for a murdered man; the
people, with noisy shouts, cheered, on either side; but the heralds stilled the tumult, holding
their staves of office in their hands; and then the judges rose up, to pronounce their verdict.

Around the other city lay two armies besieging it, with flashing arms. Two plans were considered:
either to destroy the town, or to divide the wealth thereof with its citizens. But the beleaguered
garrison had not yet yielded, but armed themselves and set an ambush. Their dear wives and
children, and the old men, stood on the walls to defend it, while the strong men went forth
to fight. And they were led by Mars and Athene, whose forms were fashioned in gold, with golden
raiment; and, as gods, he made them larger and more beautiful than the mortals around them.

The men in ambush set upon the herdsmen who were driving oxen to the watering-place of the
army, and making music with their pipes. They carried off the cattle; but the besiegers, as
they sat before the rostra, heard the lowing of the oxen and drove up, with their high-stepping
horses, to repel the raid. Then a fierce conflict arose; and in it were seen Strife, and Uproar,
and Dire Fate; like living warriors, they rushed on one another, and haled away the dead whom
they slew.

In another part of the shield, he represented a rich, deep-soiled, fallow field, thrice ploughed;
and when the ploughers came to the end of the furrow, a man would give to each of them a goblet
of sweet wine. And the ploughed ground grew black behind them, like real soil, although it
was of gold. Then there, too, was a rich field of corn, where reapers were cutting the harvest
with their sickles and it fell in rows; and others were binding it with bands of straw; while
the lord looked on, and was glad at heart. And under a spreading oak a feast was being made
ready for the reapers.

And he fashioned therein a vineyard, rich with clusters of black grapes, which the youths and
maidens, in their glee, carried in baskets; while a boy, in their midst, made sweet music on
a clear-sounding harp; and he sang the "Song of Linos," and the rest kept time with their feet.

And there was a herd of straight-horned oxen, all of gold and tin, hurrying to the pasture
beside the gently murmuring stream and the waving rushes. Four herdsmen, of gold, followed
them, and nine fleet dogs. And two terrible lions seized a bellowing bull. The herdsmen followed,
but they could not set on their dogs to bite the lions, for the dogs shrank back, barking and
whining, and turned away.

And therein the glorious divine artist placed a wide pasture full of white sheep, with folds
and tents and huts. And he made a dancing-ground, like that which Dædalus wrought at Gnosos
for lovely fair-haired Ariadne. There, lusty youths in shining tunics glistening with oil,
danced with fair maidens of costly wooing. The maidens had wreaths of flowers upon their heads;
and the youths wore daggers banging from silver sword-belts. They whirled round, with lightly
tripping feet, swift as the potter's wheel, holding each other by the wrist; and then they
ran, in lines, to meet each other. A crowd of friends stood round and joyfully watched the
dance, and a divine minstrel made sweet music with his harp, while a pair of tumblers diverted
the crowd.

Lastly, around the margin of the shield, Vulcan made the stream of the mighty river Oceanus,
which encircleth the earth.

And when he had finished this strong and splendid shield, he wrought the breastplate, glowing
with blazing fire; and he made a heavy helmet for the head, beautiful, and adorned with curious
art; upon it was a crest of gold. But the goodly greaves he made of flexible tin. When he had
completed the whole suit of glorious armor, he laid it before the silver-footed Thetis, the
mother of Achilles; and she darted, swift as a hawk, from snowy Olympus, bearing the brightly
glittering arms to her dear son.

THE SLAYING OF HECTOR

By Walter C. Perry

Meantime, Achilles went on slaughtering the Trojans; and the aged Priam stood on the sacred
tower, and saw the son of Peleus driving the Trojans before him. And he shouted aloud to the
brave warders of the gates, "Open the gates, that the fugitives may enter!" And the Far-Darter
went to the front, to save the Trojans who were fleeing to the sheltering walls, with Achilles
behind them in hot pursuit.

Then would the Achaians have stormed the lofty gates of Troy, had not Phoebus Apollo roused
Agenor, a brave and noble prince, son of Antenor. Apollo stood by this man's side, leaning
on an oak, and shrouded in mist, and put courage into his heart, that he might ward off fate
from the Trojans. And when Agenor saw Achilles, he stood irresolute, and said to his mighty
heart, "If I too flee before Achilles, he will catch me and slay me as a coward. Or shall I
fly by another way, and hide me in the spurs of Ida? How, then, if I go forth to meet him?
for his flesh, too, may surely be pierced by the keen bronze, and he has but one life, like
other mortals."

And his heart grew strong within him, to stay and fight. And he cried out aloud to Achilles,
"Surely, thou thinkest this very day to sack the proud city of Troy? Fool! many terrible things
will happen before that; for there are many of us--many and brave--to protect our dear parents
and wives and little children, and to guard holy Ilium. Thou, too, perhaps, mighty as thou
art, mayest here meet death."

He spake and hurled a spear at Achilles with his strong hand. And it smote him below the knee,
and the tin-wrought greave rang loudly; but the stout spear bounded off, for it could not pierce
the work of Vulcan.

Then Achilles rushed on godlike Agenor; but him Apollo caught in a mist, and carried him safely
out of the fray. And the god took the form of Agenor, and ran a little way before Achilles,
towards the deep-flowing Scamander. And while Apollo thus deceived the mighty son of Peleus,
the routed Trojans ran, well pleased, to their stronghold, and the great city was filled with
their multitude.

Then as he ran before Achilles, the mighty Far-Darter addressed him, and spake: "O son of Peleus!
why dost thou, being a mortal man, pursue me with thy swift feet, who am a deathless god?"
Then, in wrath, the son of Peleus answered him: "Thou hast blinded me, most mischievous of
all the Gods! and lured me away from the walls; else would many a Trojan have fallen, or ever
he had reached the city." He then went towards the city, with a proud heart, like a war-horse
victorious in a chariot race; and the aged Priam saw him, blazing like the star in autumn brightest
of all, which men call "Orion's Dog," that bringeth fever upon wretched mortals.

And the old man cried aloud, in his agony, and beat his head with his fists, and called in
a piercing voice to his dear son Hector. For the brave hero, when all the others had escaped
into the city, remained alone at the Scæan Gate eager to fight with Achilles. And his wretched
father stretched forth his withered hands, and pleaded piteously to his son:--

"Hector! dear Hector! do not meet this terrible man alone, for he is far mightier than thou,
and knoweth no pity. Already hath he robbed me of many a brave son; and now I no longer see
two of my children, Lycaon and the goodly Polydorus, whom Laothoë, princess among women, bare
to me. But the death of others will cause us briefer grief, if thou, dear Hector, art not slain.
Come, then, within the walls, and save the men and women of Troy! And have pity on me, too,
to whom the son of Cronos hath allotted a terrible doom in my old age--to see my brave sons
dragged away, and my fair daughters carried off, as captives, by the cruel hands of the Achaians.
Last of all, I too shall be torn, on my own threshold, by ravenous dogs--even the dogs which
I myself have reared with food from my table, to guard my house. They will tear my flesh and
drink my blood! It may well become a young man to lie slain on the field, for he is highly
honored in his death; but when dogs defile an old man's head and beard, this is the most lamentable
thing that befalleth wretched mortals."

And the old man tore his hair in his sore agony; but even he prevailed not with the soul of
Hector. And then his dear mother, Hecuba, took up the plaint and spake through her piteous tears.

"Hector! my child! have respect to the mother who bare thee and nursed thee on this bosom!
Pity me! and fight the foe from this side of the wall! For if he slay thee, not on a funeral
bed shall I, and thy dear wife, won by so many gifts, deplore thee; but the swift dogs shall
devour thee, far away from us, by the black ships of the Argives."

Thus wailed they over their glorious son, beseeching him; but they could not prevail, for honor
held him fast. Meanwhile, Achilles drew nigh, in strength like a giant; but Hector awaited
him undismayed, leaning his shield against the tower. And he communed thus with his brave soul:
"Alas, if I go through the gates, Polydamas will justly blame me; for he gave me good advice--that
I should lead the host into the city on that fatal night, when the noble Achilles returned
to the war. And I would not hearken to him, although he counseled well. And now that I have
brought this evil on the city by my folly, I am ashamed to appear before the men, and the proud
dames with trailing robes, lest some one should taunt me and say, 'Hector in his pride hath
ruined us.' Better then would it be for me to meet Achilles, and either slay him or fall with
glory before the city. Or how would it be if I should lay aside all my arms, and go to meet
the son of Peleus, and offer to restore Argive Helen and all her possessions to Menelaus and
Agamemnon, and to divide the wealth of Troy with the Achaians? But no! I might come to him
unarmed, but he is merciless, and would slay me on the spot, as if I were a woman. But why
do I hesitate? This is no time to hold dalliance with him, from oak or rock, like youths and
maidens. Better to fight at once, and see to whom Olympian Zeus will give the victory!"

While he thus pondered, Achilles, peer of Mars, came on, poising his terrible spear of Pelian
ash; and his divine armor, the work of a god, blazed like fire or the rising sun. And when
Hector saw him he was seized with panic, and he fled from the gates in terror.

But Achilles, swift of foot, rushed after him. As a falcon, swiftest of all birds, swoops upon
the trembling dove, and takes no heed of her piteous screaming, so Achilles flew straight at
Hector. And pursuer and pursued passed by the guard and the wild fig-tree, the sport of the
winds, and came to the two springs of water, which feed the deep-whirling Scamander. Brave
was he who fled, but mightier far was he who chased him on his swift feet; and they were racing
not for some prize in the games, but for the life of the noble horse-taming Hector. And like
horses in the race for a great prize--a tripod or a woman--so the twain ran thrice round the
sacred city of King Priam; and all the Gods were looking on.

And Zeus, the great father of Gods and men, spake first: "Alas! I see a man whom I love above
all others chased round the walls of Troy. Come now, let us take some counsel, whether to save
him or leave him to be slain by the son of Peleus."

And the fierce-eyed Athene answered him, "O thou great Lord of the Lightning, Cloud-girt King!
what a word hast thou spoken! Wouldst thou indeed save a mortal long ago doomed by Fate? Do
as thou pleasest; but we Gods shall not praise thee."

And her great father, the Cloud-Gatherer, answered with gentle words, "O Trito-born, my dear
child! be of good cheer. I spake not in earnest, and would fain please thee. Do as seemeth
good to thee." And Athene, full of joy, sped down from high Olympus.

Achilles, with all speed, was chasing the noble Hector, as the dogs hunt the fawn of a deer
through dale and woodland; and though the fawn hideth behind a bush, they follow by the scent
until they find it; so Hector could not escape from the swift-footed son of Peleus. Often did
Hector rush along the strong walls, in hopes that the Trojans within might succor him from
above with their arrows. But Achilles gained on him and turned him into the plain again.

And so, though Hector failed in his flight and Achilles in his pursuit, yet might Hector have
escaped his doom, had not this been the last time that Apollo the Far-Darter came nigh to him,
to nerve his heart and his swift knees. Achilles had made a sign to his comrades, and forbade
them to launch their darts against the noble Hector, lest one of them should gain high honor,
and he come only second. And when they had, for the fourth time, run round the walls and reached
the springs, then Zeus, the Great Father, raised his golden scales, and placed in each the
lot of gloomy death,--one for Hector, and the other for Achilles. And he held the scales by
the middle, and poised them; and the noble Hector's scale sank down to Hades; and Phoebus Apollo
left him.

But the fierce-eyed goddess Athene came near to Achilles and spake winged words: "Now, at last,
O godlike Achilles! shall we twain carry off great glory to the Achaian ships! He cannot now
escape us, though the Far-Darter should grovel at the feet of Zeus with fruitless prayers.
But do thou stay and recover thy breath; and I will go and persuade Hector to stand up against
thee in fight." And he gladly obeyed her voice, and stood leaning on his ashen spear.

And she, Athene, came to noble Hector in the likeness of his brother Deïphobus, and spake to
him: "Dear Lord and elder Brother, surely the fleet-footed son of Peleus hath done great violence
against thee, chasing thee round the walls! But let us twain make a stand against him!"

And the great Hector answered, "Deïphobus, thou wert ever the dearest of my brothers; now I
honor thee still more, because thou hast dared to come out from behind the walls to aid me,
while others skulk within."

The fierce-eyed goddess, as Deïphobus, spake again: "It is true that my father, and my queenly
mother, and all my comrades, besought me to stay with them, so greatly do they fear the mighty
son of Peleus; but my heart was sore for thee, dear brother! But let us fight amain, and see
whether he will carry our spoils to his ships, or fall beneath thy spear!" And so, with her
cunning words, she led him on to death.

And when he and Achilles were come near to each other, the noble Hector spake: "O mighty Achilles,
thrice did I flee before thee round the great city of Priam, and dared not await thy onslaught.
But now I will stand up against thee, to slay or to be slain. But come, let us make a covenant
with one another, and call the Gods, the best guardians of oaths, to witness. If Zeus grant
me to take thy life, and despoil thee of thy divine armor, then will I give back thy body to
the warlike Achaians; and do thou the same by me!"

And Achilles, with a malignant scowl, replied, "Speak not to me of covenants! There is no covenant
between men and lions, or between wolves and sheep, but only eternal war. And there can be
no pledge of faith between us twain, until one of us hath sated the murderous Mars with his
blood. Therefore, show thyself a good spearman and a brave man of war! There is no escape for
thee; for Pallas Athene hath delivered thee into my hands."

He spake, and cast his long-shafted spear at Hector. But Hector stooped, and the strong bronze
spear flew over his head; but Athene picked it up, unknown to Hector, and gave it back to Achilles.
Then Hector, rejoicing, spake to the son of Peleus: "Thou hast missed! Nor dost thou surely
know the day of my doom, as thou pretendest. Thou shalt not plant thy spear in my back, as
I flee before thee; but in my breast, if the Gods allow it. But now, in thy turn, avoid my
spear!" So spake he, and smote the middle of Achilles' shield with his long-shafted spear,
but it bounded back from the shield. Then Hector was dismayed, for he had no second spear to
throw. And he called aloud to his brother, Deïphobus; but no answer came, for he was far away.
Then Hector knew that he was betrayed, and that Athene had deceived him, in the likeness of
his brother. "Now," he cried, "is Death come near me, and there is no way of escape! This is
the will of Zeus and of the Far-Darter, who once were wont to succor me. But I will not die
ingloriously, but yet perform some notable deed of arms."

He said, and, with his sharp sword, swooped down upon Achilles. But Achilles rushed at him,
wild with fury, brandishing his spear, with evil intent against noble Hector, and eyed him
over, to see where he might pierce his flesh most easily. The rest of Hector's body was protected
by the splendid armor which he had stripped from the body of Patroclus; but there was one chink,
between the collar-bone and the throat, through which Achilles thrust his spear. Yet it cut
not the windpipe; and Hector was able to speak faint words to his insulting foe, after he had
fallen to the ground.

Achilles triumphed over him: "Ah, Hector! when thou wert stripping Patroclus of my goodly armor,
thou caredst nothing for me, who was far away! I, his friend and avenger, was left among the
black ships--even I, a mightier man than he! Thee shall the dogs and birds devour; but he shall
have honorable burial."

Then, with his last breath, the noble Hector of the bright helm addressed his pitiless foe:
"Achilles! I pray thee, by thy soul, and by thy parents' heads, let not Achaian dogs devour
me by the ships! but accept great store of gold and bronze from my father and my queenly mother,
and restore my body to them, that the Trojans may deck my funeral pyre with all due honor!"

And Achilles, with a grim scowl, replied, "Clasp not my knees, vile dog! nor speak to me of
parents! Such evil hast thou done me, that I could devour thee raw! Not for thy weight in gold
would I give thee to thy queenly mother, to mourn over thee; but dogs and birds shall batten
on thy flesh!"

Then the dying Hector uttered his last words: "Thou iron-hearted man! now I know thee; nor
did I think to prevail upon thee. But beware of the wrath of the Gods, when Paris and the Far-Darter
slay thee, at the Scæan Gate, brave though thou art!"

He spake; and Death overshadowed him; and his soul went down to Hades, wailing to leave beauty,
youth, and vigor.

And Achilles spake again to the dead Hector: "Lie thou there! And as for me, I will die when
it seemeth good to the deathless Gods!"

And the Achaians ran up, and looked with wonder at the noble stature and beauty of the Trojan
hero. And they all inflicted wounds upon him, as he lay, saying, "He is easier to deal with
now than when he was burning our ships with flames of fire."

And when the son of Peleus had stripped him of his armor, he stood up, and spake to the Achaians:--

"Great chiefs and counselors of the Argives! at last the Gods have granted us to slay this
man, whose single arm hath wrought more evil to us than all the rest together. Let us now approach
the city, and learn the purpose of the Trojans; whether they will now surrender the citadel
or go on fighting, though great Hector is no more. But why do I thus ponder in my mind? Patroclus
is lying unburied and unwept by the ships. Never can I forget him, while I live; and even in
the House of Hades, I will remember my dearest friend. Come, then! let us raise the chant of
victory, and bear our deadliest foe to the black ships!"

Then he foully outraged the dead body of glorious Hector; slitting the sinews of both feet,
from heel to ankle, he passed ox-hide straps through them, and fastened them to his chariot,
leaving the goodly head to trail upon the ground. Then he laid the armor on the chariot; and
mounting it, lashed his willing horses to full speed. And in the dust lay the once beautiful
head, with its flowing hair; for Zeus had now given Hector up to his enemies, to be foully
used in his own native land.

And when his dear mother, Hecuba, saw her much-loved son dragged along, begrimed with dust,
she tore her hair, and shrieked aloud, and tossed far away her glistening veil. And his father,
King Priam, wailed and mourned; and with him all the men and women in the city, as if the beetling
towers of Ilium were already smouldering in fire. Hardly could they keep the aged father from
rushing through the gates; for he threw himself in the dust and supplicated each man by name:
"O friend, forbear! and if you love me, let me go to the ships of the Achaians, and pray to
this arrogant, this fearful man!" Thus wailed old Priam; and the men wailed with him. And Queen
Hecuba led the loud lamentations of the women. "Why," she cried, "should I yet live, when thou,
my son, my boast, my glory, art dead? the pride and blessing of all, both men and women of
the city, who honored thee as a god; for in thy life thou wert an honor to them all!" Thus
mourned his unhappy mother.

But to his wife, the noble, beautiful, tender-hearted Andromache, no messenger had brought
the fearful tidings that Hector had remained without the gates. All unconscious, she was sitting
in the inner chamber of her lofty palace, weaving a purple web of double woof, and embroidering
it with many flowers. And she was ordering her handmaids to prepare a warm bath for her dear
husband, when he should return from the battle; poor child! little knowing that the fierce-eyed
Athene had treacherously slain him, by the hand of Achilles! But when she heard shrieks and
lamentations from the walls, she reeled, and the shuttle dropped from her hands. And she spake
again to her fair-haired maidens: "Surely, that was the cry of Hector's noble mother! Some
terrible thing must have befallen my godlike husband! Come, then, follow me, that I may learn
what has happened; I greatly fear that he has been cut off from the city by Achilles; for he
would never retreat among the throng, or yield to any man, in his high courage."

And she rushed, all frantic, through the house, followed by her maidens, and came to the walls,
and saw Hector dragged through the dust, towards the black ships of the Achaians. Then darkness
shrouded her fair eyes, and she fell backwards in a swoon. And when roused, she tore from her
head the net, the fillet, and the nuptial veil which golden Venus had given her, when noble
Hector of the shining helm led her forth, from King Eëtion's palace, as his bride. And the
sisters-in-law of her dear husband gathered round her, and raised her from the ground, all
distracted as she was and nigh unto death. When she had recovered from her swoon, she sobbed
and wailed, crying, "O Hector! to the same evil fate were we twain born, thou in Troy, and
I in Thebes, where my great father, Eëtion, reared me as a little child. Would that I had never
been born, since thou leavest me a hapless widow! And our son, thine and mine, ill-fated one!
is but a little child; and thou canst no more profit him, nor he be a joy to thee, since thou
art dead! A helpless orphan, he is cut off from his playmates; and if he pluck the robe of
his father's friends, one may, in pity, just hold the cup to his lips, but give him not to
satisfy his hunger and his thirst; while other children, whose parents still live, will drive
him from their feast, with taunts and blows, saying, 'Away with thee! thou hast no father at
our table!' Then will he come back to me, his lonely mother; he, who so lately sat on his father's
knee, and fed on the choicest of food! and when sleep fell upon him, tired with his childish
play, he nestled in a soft bed in his nurse's arms. But now that his father is no more, he
shall suffer untold griefs, even he whom the Trojans called 'Astyanax,' king of the city, because
thou, O my beloved lord! wert the sole defense and glory of their lofty walls." Thus wailed
the fair Andromache; and the women moaned around her.

THE FUNERAL GAMES IN HONOR OF PATROCLUS

By Walter C. Perry

The noble Achilles could not do enough in honor of his lost friend, Patroclus, and he had determined
to hold games, of every kind, in which the mail-clad Achaians might compete for prizes; and
to this end he had brought goodly treasures from his ships,--tripods, and caldrons, horses,
mules, and oxen, well-girdled women, and hoary iron. The first and most important contest was
a chariot race, for which he offered a woman skilled in needlework, and a two-handled tripod,
holding two-and-twenty measures--these, for the best man of all; the second prize was a mare,
six years old, with a mule foal; the third prize was a fair new caldron, of four measures;
the fourth was two talents of bright gold; the fifth was a two-handled vase, untarnished by
the fire.

And Achilles addressed the chiefs, and said, "If the race were in honor of some other warrior,
then should I enter the lists, and bear away the prize; for ye know that my horses are immortal,
and by far the best; Neptune, the Earth-Girdler, gave them to my father, and he to me. But
I and they will stand aside; for they have lost a noble and gentle driver, who oft-times washed
them with clear water and then poured soft oil upon their goodly manes! And now they stand
with sorrow in their breasts, and their full long manes are trailing on the earth. But now,
let whoever of you trusteth in his horses and his strong chariot take his place in the lists!"

And first came forward Eumelus, son of Admetus; next came the mighty Diomedes, with the famous
horses of Tros, which he had taken from Æneas; then arose Menelaus,--the fair-haired, godlike
Menelaus, with Aithe, Agamemnon's mare, and his own horse, Podargus; and the fourth was Antilochus,
son of the wise Nestor, who yoked swift Pylian horses to his chariot.

His father Nestor, son of Neleus, stood by Antilochus, and gave him good advice, although he
himself was wise. "Antilochus, my son," he said, "though thou art young, yet Zeus and Neptune
have loved thee, and made thee a perfect horseman; and there is little need for me to teach
thee. But the other horses are better than thine; and I fear that much trouble is in store
for thee. But skill and cunning are better than force, and so one charioteer defeats another.
Look well to the posts at either end, and run closely by them. Now I will tell thee another
thing. Some six feet above the ground, there stands the withered stump of a tree, with two
white stones, on either side; this is the mark fixed by the swift-footed Achilles. Do thou
drive thy horses hard by this, and lean slightly to the left, and lash the off horse and give
him rein; but let the near horse so closely skirt the post that the nave of the wheel of thy
car may seem to graze the stone; but beware of touching it!"

Next, Meriones made ready his chariot; and so did the others. Then they mounted their cars,
and drew lots for their places. Great Diomedes drew the best. Achilles ranged them all side
by side, and pointed to the turning-post, in the plain, near which he posted old Phoenix, as
umpire.

Then, at a signal from the son of Peleus, they raised their long whips, together, standing
upright, and lashed their horses, and encouraged them by hand and voice. And the chariots now
ran evenly on the ground, and now bounded high in air. But when they entered the last part
of the course, driving towards the sea, the fleet mares of Eumelus, grandson of Pheres, rushed
to the front; and next came Diomedes, with the stallions of Tros, so near that they seemed
to be mounting the car of Eumelus, and with their hot breath covered his back and shoulders.
Then Tydides would either have gained a victory, or it would have been at least a dead heat;
but Phoebus Apollo was angry with him, and dashed his shining whip from his hand. He shed hot
tears of fury, when he saw that the mares of Eumelus were still at their utmost speed, while
his own horses slackened their speed, no longer feeling the lash. But, luckily for Diomedes,
his constant friend Athene marked the trick of Apollo; and, speeding after Diomedes, she gave
him back the scourge, and put fresh mettle into his steeds. She then pursued Eumelus, and brake
the yoke of his horses; they bolted from the course, and he was hurled off his car into the
dust. Meanwhile, Tydides rushed on before the others, for Athene was shedding glory on his head.

Next to him ran the horses of Menelaus, son of Atreus. Then came Antilochus, son of Nestor,
who spake thus to his father's Pylian horses: "I do not ask you to contend with Tydides, whose
horses Athene herself is speeding; but I pray you to catch up the chariot of Atrides; and be
not beaten by Aithe, lest she, who is only a mare, pour ridicule upon you." Thus spake Antilochus,
and his horses were afraid, and sped on more swiftly. But Antilochus noted a narrow gully,
where the rain had collected and had carried away a part of the course. There Menelaus was
driving, when Antilochus turned his horses out of the way, and followed him at one side. Then
Menelaus, fearing a collision, shouted loudly to the son of Nestor: "Antilochus, hold in thy
horses! and drive not so recklessly! close ahead there is a wider space, where we can pass
one another!" But Antilochus, as if he heard him not, drove on more madly than ever and plied
the lash; and the golden-haired son of Atreus called again to him, reproving him: "Antilochus,
there is no man more spiteful than thou; away with thee! wrongly have we called thee wise!"
Then he called on his horses, and they increased their speed, fearing the anger of their lord,
and quickly overtook the others.

Now the Argive chiefs sat together, watching the race as the chariots flew along the course.
The first to see them coming was Idomeneus, the Cretan prince, the son of Deucalion; he was
sitting apart from the rest on the highest place, and he could distinguish the voices of the
drivers. He noticed a chestnut horse, with a white star on his forehead, round like the full
moon; and he stood up and spake: "Friends and Counselors of the Argives! can ye see the horses
as I do? To me, there appeareth a new chariot and horses; and the mares which led at the start
I can no longer see."

Then the son of Oïleus, Ajax, rebuked him in boorish fashion: "Idomeneus, why chatterest thou
before the time? Thou art not one of the youngest, nor are thine eyes of the sharpest. The
same mares of Eumelus are still leading, and he is standing up in the chariot."

And the great chief, Idomeneus, answered in great wrath, "Ajax, ever ready to abuse, inconsiderate
slanderer! thou art in all respects inferior to the other Argives, for thy mind is rude."

Thus spoke the Cretan hero. And the son of Oïleus rose again, to reply with scornful words;
but Achilles himself stood forward and said, "No longer, Idomeneus and Ajax, bandy insulting
words with one another; for it is not meet! Sit ye still, and watch; and soon will ye know
which horses are leading." He spake; and straightway Tydides came driving up in his fair chariot,
overlaid with gold and tin, which ran lightly behind the horses, and scarcely left a trace
in the fine dust of the plain. Checking his horses in the middle of the crowd, he leapt to
the ground and claimed the splendid prize; and the gallant Sthenelus made no delay, but gave
to his victorious comrade the woman and the tripod to bear away.

Next to Diomedes came the son of Nestor, Antilochus, who had passed by Menelaus by a clever
stratagem, though his horses were inferior; but even so, Menelaus had pressed him hard, and
was behind him only so far as a horse is from the wheel of the chariot which he draweth.

But Meriones, the brave charioteer of Idomeneus, came in about the cast of a lance behind Menelaus;
for his horses were the slowest, and he was himself but a sluggish driver. Last of all came
Eumelus, the son of Admetus, dragging his broken chariot. The swift-footed Achilles, son of
Peleus, pitied him, and spake winged words to the chiefs: "Lo! the best man of all comes last;
but let us give him a prize--the second! And let Tydides bear away the first!"

All the Achaians heard him, and shouted applause; and the noble Achilles would have given him
the mare had not Antilochus, son of the wise and glorious Nestor, stood up in defense of his
claim: "O Achilles!" he said, "justly shall I be wroth with thee, if thou takest away the prize
which I have fairly won. Thou thinkest only of the unlucky chance which hath befallen Eumelus
and his horses; but he ought to have made prayer to the deathless Gods, and then he would not
have come in last of all. If thou pitiest him, there is much treasure in thy house,--gold,
and bronze, and sheep, and handmaids, and horses. Give him, if it pleaseth thee and the Achaians,
a still richer prize. But I will not give up the mare; for she is mine."

And Achilles smiled on his comrade Antilochus, whom he dearly loved, and answered him, "Antilochus,
I will do as thou sayest: I will give him the bronze cuirass, edged with shining tin, which
I took from Asteropæus."

But the great Menelaus arose, filled with insatiable wrath against Antilochus. The herald placed
a sceptre in his hand, and called for silence. Then the godlike king made harangue, and said,
"Antilochus! thou who wert once accounted wise--what is this that thou hast done? Thou hast
disgraced my skill, and discomfited my horses, by thrusting thine, which are far worse, in
front of them. Come then, great chiefs of the Argives! give judgment, without favor, between
him and me! That no one may say hereafter, that ye favored me for my power and rank, I will
myself set the issue before you; so that no one may reproach me. Stand forth, Antilochus, before
thy chariot; and take thy whip, and lay thy hand upon thy horses, and swear by the great Girdler
and Shaker of the Earth, that thou didst not, by set purpose and malice, hinder my chariot
in the course!"

Then Antilochus made prudent answer, "Be patient with me, King Menelaus! for I am younger,
and thou art in all respects my better. Bear with me, then: and I will myself give thee the
mare, my prize, rather than lose my place in thy heart, O thou beloved of Zeus!" Thus spake
the noble-minded son of Nestor; and he gave the mare to Menelaus, king of men.

And the heart of the son of Atreus rejoiced, as the ripe ears of corn, when the dew descendeth
upon them, in the glistening cornfield. And he spake kindly to Antilochus, and said, "Lo! at
once do I put away my anger; for of old thou wert never rash or light-minded; but now thy reason
was overborne by the impetuosity of youth. Therefore I grant thy prayer, and will even give
thee the mare; for I am in no wise covetous or unforgiving."

He spake, and gave the mare to Noëmon, the comrade of Antilochus, to lead away; but he took
the bright caldron to himself. And Meriones, who came in fourth, took the two talents of gold.
But the fifth prize, a vase with two handles, was not obtained; and the noble Achilles gave
this to Nestor, and, standing by him, uttered winged words:--

"Let this, O Father! be for thee an heirloom, and a memorial of Patroclus' funeral games--of
him, whom thou wilt never see again! I give it to thee since thou mayest not contend in boxing,
nor in wrestling, nor in throwing the lance, nor in the foot-race; for rueful old age weigheth
heavily upon thee."

Nestor gladly received the splendid gift, and spake: "True and fitting are thy words, dear
friend! My limbs are no longer sound, nor do my arms move easily from my shoulders; and I must
make way for younger men. But I accept thy free gift with joy, and rejoice that thou dost remember
our old friendship."

Then Pelides brought forward the prizes for the rough, fierce boxing-match: a six-year-old
unbroken mule for the winner; and a two-handled goblet for the loser. Then quickly rose the
famous boxer Epeius, and laid his hand on the stubborn mule, and boasted aloud: "Let who will
bear away the goblet; but the mule is mine! for no one will beat me with his fists!" They all
kept silence, and feared. Only one came forward, even Euryalus, the gallant son of King Mecistus.
The famous warrior Tydides made him ready for the fight, and bade him God speed. The twain
went into the ring, and fell to work; and terrible was the gnashing of their teeth, and the
sweat ran down from their limbs. Epeius came on fiercely, and struck Euryalus on the cheek,
and that was enough; for all his limbs were loosened. As a fish on a weedy beach, in the ripple
caused by Boreas, leapeth high in air, so Euryalus leapt up in his anguish. But the generous
Epeius raised him again to his feet, and his comrades led him away, with dragging feet and
drooping head, and spitting out black blood.

Next came the terrible wrestling match; and for this the glorious Achilles brought out two
costly prizes: for the winner, a fireproof tripod, worth twelve oxen; and for the loser, a
woman skilled in handiwork, valued at four oxen. And he cried aloud to the Achaians, "Stand
forward all ye who will enter into this contest!"

Then rose Telamonian Ajax and the crafty Ulysses, and faced each other. And they entered the
ring, and grasped each other with their strong hands, like the rafters of a house, joined by
some skillful builder to withstand the wind. Their backbones grated and creaked beneath the
strain; the sweat poured down from their limbs, and bloody weals streaked their sides and shoulders,
as they struggled for the well-wrought tripod. But neither could Ulysses throw the burly Ajax,
nor Ajax him. And when the Achaians grew tired of the futile contest, Ajax spake to Ulysses:
"O thou offspring of the Gods, Laertes' son! do thou lift me, or I will lift thee, and the
issue will be on the lap of Zeus!"

So saying, he raised Ulysses. But the Wily One did not forget his craft. From behind, he struck
the hollow of Ajax's knee, and threw him on his back; and Ulysses fell upon him; and the people
marveled. Then, in his turn, Ulysses tried to lift huge Ajax, but could not; so he thrust his
crooked knee into the hollow of the other's; and they again both fell to the ground, covered
with dust. When they rose for a third bout, Achilles restrained them. "No longer wear ye one
another out, with toil and pain! Ye both have won and shall receive equal prizes!" And they
cleansed themselves, and put on their doublets.

Then the noble son of Peleus offered prizes for the foot-race; the first, a silver krater holding
six measures, curiously chased by Sidonian artists--by far the most beautiful mixing-cup in
the whole world. For the second he offered a stalled ox; and for the third, half a talent of
gold. The wondrous krater Phoenicians had brought by sea, and given it to Thoas, the ruler
of Lemnos; and Euneus, son of Jason, inherited it from Jason, who received it from Thoas, his
father-in-law; and Euneus gave it to the hero Patroclus, as a ransom for Lycaon, son of Priam;
this splendid goblet was offered to the swiftest of foot.

Then three valiant heroes arose: Ajax, son of Oïleus; Ulysses, the wily one; and Antilochus,
the best runner of the youths. Achilles ranged them side by side, and showed them the goal.
All started at full speed; but Ajax soon took the lead; and Ulysses came close behind him,
near as the shuttle to the breast of a fair-girdled woman when she is weaving,--so near that
his breath was warm on the back of Ajax. But as they neared the goal, the wily Ulysses prayed
to the fierce-eyed Athene, "O goddess, come and help my feet!" And Athene heard her favorite,
and strengthened all his limbs. But just as they were about to pounce upon the prize, Ajax
slipped in the blood of the slaughtered oxen, and fell; his mouth and nostrils were filled
with dirt and gore. So the patient Ulysses took the priceless krater, and Ajax the fatted ox.
But Ajax, holding his prize by the horn, and spitting the filth from his mouth, spake to the
Achaians: "O fie upon it! it was the goddess who betrayed me; she who is ever near to Ulysses,
as a mother to her child." And the Achaians laughed merrily, to see him in such a sorry plight.

Antilochus, smiling, took the last prize, half a talent of gold; and he too spake winged words
to the Argives: "My friends, ye too will agree with me that the deathless Gods show favor to
the older men. Ajax is a little older than I; but Ulysses is of a former generation. It were
not easy for any one, except Achilles, fleet of foot, to outrun him."

Achilles was pleased at the honor done to his swiftness. "Not unrewarded," he said, "shall
the praise be which thou hast bestowed on me: I give thee another half-talent of gold." Antilochus
received it gladly. Then the assembly was dissolved, and the Achaians dispersed, each to his
own ship.

In the tenth year of the war the Greeks, who could not take the city by force, pondered how
they might take it by craft.

THE WANDERINGS OF ULYSSES

AN ADVENTURE WITH THE CYCLOPS

By Alfred J. Church

    [After the fall of Troy the Greeks set out for home, but many of
    them had troubles and dangers to meet before they saw again the
    shores of their native land. The one who suffered most was
    Ulysses, and the following is his story of his adventure with the
    one-eyed giant, the Cyclops.]

The wind that bore me from Troy brought me to Ismarus, a city of the Ciconians. This I sacked,
slaying the people that dwelt therein. Much spoil did we take out of the city, dividing it
among the people, so that each man had his share. And when we had done this, I commanded my
men that they should depart with all speed; but they, in their folly, would not hear me. For
there was much wine to drink, and sheep and kine to slay; therefore they sat on the shore and
feasted. Meanwhile the people of the city fetched others, their kinsmen that dwelt in the mountains,
and were more in number and more valiant than they, and skillful in all manner of fighting.
In the early morning they assembled themselves together, thick as the flowers and the leaves
that grow in the springtime, and set the battle in array. Then we fought with them; while the
day waxed we prevailed over them, and beat them back, though they were more in number than
we; but when the sun was descending in the heavens, then the Cicones overcame us, and drave
us to our ships. Six from each ship perished, but the remnant of us escaped from death.

When the dawn appeared, then we wandered through the island; and the nymphs of the land started
the wild goats that my company might have food to eat. Thereupon we took our bows and our spears
from the ships, and shot at the goats; and the Gods gave us plenty of prey. Twelve ships I
had in my company, and each ship had nine goats for its share, and my own portion was ten.

Then all the day we sat and feasted, drinking the sweet wine which we had taken from the city
of the Cicones, and eating the flesh of the goats; and as we sat we looked across to the land
of the Cyclops, seeing the smoke and hearing the voices of the men and of the sheep and of
the goats. And when the sun set and darkness came over the land, we lay down upon the seashore
and slept.

The next day I gathered my men together, and said, "Abide ye here, dear friends; I with my
own ship and my own company will go and make trial of the folk that dwell in yonder island,
whether they are just or unjust."

So I climbed into my ship, and bade my company follow me; so we came to the land of the Cyclops.
Close to the shore was a cave, with laurels round about the mouth. This was the dwelling of
the Cyclops. Alone he dwelt, a creature without law. Nor was he like to mortal men, but rather
to some wooded peak of the hills that stands out apart from all the rest.

Then I bade the rest of my comrades abide by the ship, and keep it, but I took twelve men,
the bravest that there were in the crew, and went forth. I had with me a goat-skin full of
the wine, dark red, and sweet, which the priest of Apollo at Ismarus had given me. Because
we kept him and his wife and child from harm when we sacked the city, reverencing the god,
therefore did he give it me. Three things did he give me,--seven talents of gold, and a mixing-bowl
of silver, and of wine twelve jars. So precious was it that none in his house knew of it saving
himself and his wife and one dame that kept the house. When they drank of it they mixed twenty
measures of water with one of wine, and the smell that went up from it was wondrous sweet.
No man could easily refrain from drinking it. With this wine I filled a great skin and bore
it with me; also I bare corn in a wallet, for my heart within me boded that I should need it.
Verily, his coming was not to be a joy to my company.

It was evening when the Cyclops came home,--a mighty giant, very tall of stature, and when
we saw him we fled into the sacred place of the cave in great fear. We Cyclops take no account
of gods, holding ourselves to be much better and stronger than they. But come, tell me, where
have you left your ship?" But we that were left, when we saw the dreadful deed, could only
weep and pray to Zeus for help. And when the giant had filled his maw with human flesh and
with the milk of the flocks, he lay down among his sheep and slept.

Then I spake to him: "Thou didst ask my name, Cyclops. And I, standing above, leant with all
my force upon the stake, and turned it about, as a man bores the timber of a ship with a drill.

So they spake, and I laughed in my heart when I saw how I had beguiled them by the name that
I had given. Right glad were those that had abode by the ship to see us. Then they rowed with
all their might and main.

THE SIRENS--SCYLLA AND CHARYBDIS

Translated by George Herbert Palmer

I turned me toward my ship, and called my crew to come on board and loose the cables. Quickly
they came, took places at the pins, and sitting in order smote the foaming water with their
oars. And for our aid behind our dark-bowed ship came a fair wind to fill our sail, a welcome
comrade, sent us by fair-haired Circe, the mighty goddess, human of speech. When we had done
our work at the several ropes about the ship, we sat us down, while wind and helmsman kept
her steady.

Now to my men, with aching heart, I said, "My friends, it is not right for only one or two
to know the oracles which Circe told, that heavenly goddess. Therefore I speak, that, knowing
all, we so may die, or fleeing death and doom, we may escape. She warns us first against the
marvelous Sirens, and bids us flee their voice and flowery meadow. Only myself she bade to
hear their song; but bind me with galling cords, to hold me firm, upright upon the mast-block,--round
it let the rope be wound. And if I should entreat you, and bid you set me free, thereat with
still more fetters bind me fast."

Thus I, relating all my tale, talked with my comrades. Meanwhile our stanch ship swiftly neared
the Sirens' island; a fair wind swept her on. On a sudden the wind ceased; there came a breathless
calm; Heaven hushed the waves. My comrades, rising, furled the sail, stowed it on board the
hollow ship, then sitting at their oars whitened the water with the polished blades. But I
with my sharp sword cut a great cake of wax into small bits, which I then kneaded in my sturdy
hands. Soon the wax warmed, forced by the powerful pressure and by the rays of the exalted
sun, the lord of all. Then one by one I stopped the ears of all my crew; and on the deck they
bound me hand and foot, upright upon the mast-block, round which they wound the rope; and sitting
down they smote the foaming water with their oars. But when we were as far away as one can
call, and driving swiftly onward, our speeding ship, as it drew near, did not escape the Sirens,
and thus they lifted up their penetrating voice:--

"Come hither, come, Ulysses, whom all praise! great glory to the Achaians! Bring on your ship,
and listen to our song. For none has ever passed us in a black-hulled ship till from our lips
he heard ecstatic song, then went his way rejoicing and with larger knowledge. For we know
all that on the plain of Troy Argives and Trojans suffered at the Gods' behest; we know whatever
happens on the bounteous earth."

So spoke they, sending forth their glorious song, and my heart longed to listen. Knitting my
brows, I signed my men to set me free; but bending forward, on they rowed. And straightway
Perimedes and Eurylochus arose and laid upon me still more cords, and drew them tighter. Then,
after passing by, when we could hear no more the Sirens' voice nor any singing, quickly my
trusty crew removed the wax with which I stopped their ears, and set me free from bondage.

Soon after we left the island, I observed a smoke, I saw high waves and heard a plunging sound.
From the hands of my frightened men down fell the oars, and splashed against the current. There
the ship stayed, for they worked the tapering oars no more. Along the ship I passed, inspiriting
my men with cheering words, standing by each in turn:--

"Friends, hitherto we have not been untried in danger. Here is no greater danger than when
the Cyclops penned us with brutal might in the deep cave. Yet out of that, through energy of
mine, through will and wisdom, we escaped. These dangers, too, I think some day we shall remember.
Come then, and what I say let us all follow. You with your oars strike the deep breakers of
the sea, while sitting at the pins, and see if Zeus will set us free from present death and
let us go in safety. And, helmsman, these are my commands for you; lay them to heart, for you
control the rudders of our hollow ship: keep the ship off that smoke and surf and hug the crags,
or else, before you know it, she may veer off that way, and you will bring us into danger."

So I spoke, and my words they quickly heeded. But Scylla I did not name,--that hopeless horror,--for
fear through fright my men might cease to row, and huddle all together in the hold. I disregarded
too the hard behest of Circe, when she had said I must by no means arm. Putting on my glittering
armor and taking in my hands my two long spears, I went upon the ship's fore-deck, for thence
I looked for the first sight of Scylla of the rocks, who brought my men disaster. Nowhere could
I descry her; I tried my eyes with searching up and down the dusky cliff.

So up the strait we sailed in sadness; for here lay Scylla, and there divine Charybdis fearfully
sucked the salt sea-water down. Whenever she belched it forth, like a kettle in fierce flame
all would foam swirling up, and overhead spray fell upon the tops of both the crags. But when
she gulped the salt sea-water down, then all within seemed in a whirl; the rock around roared
fearfully, and down below the bottom showed, dark with the sand. Pale terror seized my men;
on her we looked and feared to die.

And now it was that Scylla snatched from the hollow ship six of my
comrades who were best in skill and strength. Turning my eyes toward my
swift ship to seek my men, I saw their feet and hands already in the air
as they were carried up. They screamed aloud and called my name for the
last time, in agony of heart. As when a fisher, on a jutting rock, with
long rod throws a bait to lure the little fishes, casting into the deep
the horn of stall-fed ox; then, catching a fish, flings it ashore
writhing,--even so were these drawn writhing up the rocks. There at her
door she ate them, loudly shrieking and stretching forth their hands in
mortal pangs toward me. That was the saddest sight my eyes have ever seen,
in all my toils, searching the ocean pathways. At length he was
    shipwrecked on the shores of Phoeacia. The king, Alcinous,
    entertained him most hospitably, and Ulysses related to him the
    story of his wanderings.]

When Ulysses had finished his story, there was silence in the hall till Alcinous said, "Ulysses,
now that you have come to my house after all these troubles, you shall return without more
wandering to your home." And then he bade the princes go home for the night and meet again
in the morning to bring their gifts.

So next day the Sea-kings went down to the ship and put their gifts on board and then returned
to the palace and sacrificed an ox to Zeus. And then they feasted and drank their good wine
and waited till the sun went down. And the minstrel sang to them, but Ulysses kept looking
at the sun impatiently, like a hungry ploughman tired out at the close of day. At last the
time arrived, and then Ulysses said, "Alcinous, let me go now, and fare you well. My escort
and my gifts are all prepared, and I could wish no more. May I but find my wife and my dear
ones all safe and sound at home! And may Heaven grant you, too, happy homes and every blessing
and no distress among your people!" And to Queen Arete he said, "Lady, may you live happily
with your husband and children, and all this people, till old age comes to you and death, which
must come to all!"

Then the herald led the way and Ulysses followed to the ship, and the queen sent her servants
with him to carry warm clothing for the voyage and food and drink. And when they had stored
the ship he lay down silently in the stern, and the rowers took their places in the benches
and plied their oars, while a deep, sweet sleep fell upon him, like the sleep of death. Then
the wonderful ship leapt forward on her way, like a team of chariot horses plunging beneath
the whip, and the great dark wave roared round the stern. No hawk could fly so quickly as that
ship flew through the waves, and the hawk is the swiftest of all birds. And as she sped, the
man who had suffered so much and was as wise as the Gods lay peacefully asleep, and forgot
his sufferings.

But when the bright star rose that tells of the approach of day, the ship drew near the island
of Ithaca. There is a haven there between two steep headlands which break the waves, so that
ships can ride in safety without a mooring rope, and at the head of it an olive-tree, and a
shadowy cave where the water fairies come and tend their bees and weave their sea-blue garments
on the hanging looms and mix their wine in bowls and jars of stone. There are springs of water
in the cave, and two ways into it, one to the north for men to enter, and one to the south
where none but the Gods may pass.

The Sea-kings knew this harbor and rowed straight into it and ran their ship half a keel's
length ashore. Then they lifted Ulysses out of the stern, wrapt in the rugs and coverlet, and
laid him still asleep upon the sand. And the gifts they placed in a heap by the trunk of the
olive-tree, a little out of the road, so that no passer-by might rob him as he slept.

Then they sailed away; and after they were gone Ulysses awoke, but he could not recognize the
land where he lay, for Athene had cast a mist about him so that everything looked strange,
though he was the lord of it all. There were the mountain paths and the sheltering creeks,
the high, steep rocks and the trees in bloom; but he could not see it aright, and started up
and smote his hands upon his thighs and cried aloud,--

"What land have I come to now? And what can I do with all this treasure? If the Sea-kings did
not really mean to send me back to Ithaca they should have conveyed me to some other people
who would have sent me home." And then he counted the gifts over, the golden vessels, and the
beautiful garments, and found nothing missing, but they gave him no pleasure; and he turned
sadly to walk along the shore and dream of home, when a young herdsman met him, of noble figure,
with a javelin in his hand and a fine mantle in double folds upon his shoulders. Ulysses was
glad to greet him, and asked what country he had reached. It was Athene in disguise, and she
answered, "Truly, stranger, you must have come from far indeed. For this is a famous island
that all men know, whether they live in the east or in the west. It is a rugged land, and no
place for horses and chariots, but though it is narrow, it is not so poor; for there are stores
of corn and wine, plenty of water for the cattle and plenty of wood. Its name is Ithaca, and
some men have heard of it even at Troy, which they say is a long way off."

Then brave Ulysses rejoiced in his heart to hear that it was his native land; but he would
not tell the herdsman who he was, and made up a cunning story that he had escaped as an outlaw
from Crete and had been left upon the island by a Phoenician crew. And the goddess smiled to
hear him, and stood forth in her own true form, a wise and noble woman, tall and fair, and
put her hand upon his shoulder, and said,--

"Come, let us practice no more craft on one another, Ulysses, for we are both famous for our
wit and wiles, you among mortals and I among the Gods. I am Pallas Athene, daughter of Zeus,
and I have stood beside you and protected you in all your wanderings and toil. And now I have
come here to tell you of the troubles that await you in your house, and to help you with my
counsel. But you must still endure in silence, and tell no one that Ulysses has returned."

And Ulysses made answer, "It is hard, goddess, for a mortal to know you, wise though he may
be, for you come in many shapes. Truly I have known your kindness from of old in Troy, but
when we went on board the ships, I never saw you at my side again. Tell me, I pray you, if
this is Ithaca indeed, my native land."

Then the goddess answered, "I see, Ulysses, that you keep your ready wit and steadfast mind.
I could not show myself your friend before for fear of angering Neptune, my own father's brother.
But come now, and I will show you Ithaca; there is the haven and the olive with its slender
leaves, and the cave where you once made many an offering to the water nymphs."

And then she rolled away the mist, and the long-suffering hero rejoiced to see his native land
again. He kissed the kindly earth, and vowed to the nymphs that he would bring them offerings
as of old if he lived to see his dear son a man.

Then the goddess bade him be of good cheer, and showed him a hiding-place in the cavern for
the gifts. And then they sat down by the trunk of the olive-tree, and Athene told him all the
misdeeds of the suitors, and how his wife had beguiled them and kept them waiting till his
return, and how he must avenge himself and her.

Then Ulysses said, "Truly, I should have perished in my own halls, like Agamemnon, if you had
not warned me. Help me, therefore, with your wisdom, and stand beside me again and put strength
and courage within me as in the days of Troy. For with you by my side I could fight against
three hundred men."

And Pallas Athene made answer, "I will be with you, Ulysses, when the hour of the conflict
is come, and the blood of the suitors who eat up your substance shall be shed at last. But
now I will change you into a poor beggar, so old and so wretched that no one will know you,
and in that guise you must go and stay with the herdsman Eumæus, who tends your swine, until
I have brought your son Telemachus from Sparta, where he has gone to seek tidings of you."

Then she touched him with her magic wand, and the fair flesh withered on his limbs, and the
golden locks fell from his head, and he was changed into an old man. His skin was shriveled
and his bright eyes dimmed, and for his covering she gave him a tattered wrap, begrimed with
smoke, and a worn deerskin on his shoulder, and a wallet and a staff in his hand.

Then she vanished, and left him to take his way alone across the hills.

ULYSSES AT THE HOUSE OF THE SWINEHERD

By F. S. Marvin, R. J. C. Mayor, and F. M. Stowell

Ulysses went up along the rough mountain path, through the forest and over the hills, till
he came to the house where his faithful steward lived. It stood in an open space, and there
was a large courtyard in front with a wall of heavy stones and hawthorn boughs and a stout
oak palisade. Inside the yard there were twelve sties for the pigs, and the swineherd kept
four watch-dogs to guard the place, great beasts and fierce as wolves, that he had reared himself.
Ulysses found him at home, sitting in the porch alone, and cutting himself a pair of sandals
from a brown oxhide.

The dogs caught sight of the king as soon as he came up and flew at him, barking, but he had
the wit to let go his staff and sit down at once on the ground. Still it might have gone hard
with him there in front of his own servant's house had not Eumæus rushed out of the porch,
dropping the leather in his haste, and scolded the dogs, driving them off with a volley of stones.

Then he said to Ulysses, "A little more, old man, and the dogs would have torn you in pieces,
and disgraced me forever. And I have my full share of trouble as it is, for I have lost the
best master in all the world and must sit here to mourn for him and fatten his swine for other
men, while he is wandering somewhere in foreign lands, hungry and thirsty perhaps, if he is
still alive at all. But now come in yourself, and let me give you food and drink and tell me
your own tale."

So he took Ulysses into the house and made a seat for him with a pile of brushwood boughs and
a great thick shaggy goat-skin which he used for his own bed, and all with so kind a welcome
that it warmed the king's heart and made him pray the Gods to bless him for his goodness. But
Eumæus only said, "How could I neglect a stranger, though he were a worse man than you? All
strangers and beggars are sent to us by Zeus. Take my gift and welcome, though it is little
enough I have to give, a servant such as I, with new masters to lord it over him. For we have
lost the king who would have loved me and given me house and lands and all that a faithful
servant ought to have, whose work is blest by the Gods and prospers, as mine does here. Alas!
he is dead and gone! he went away with Agamemnon to fight at Troy and never came home again."

So saying, the good swineherd rose and fetched what meat and wine he had, and set it before
Ulysses, grieving that he had nothing better for him because the shameless suitors plundered
everything.

But Ulysses ate and drank eagerly, and when his strength had come again he asked Eumæus, "My
friend, who is this master of yours you tell me of? Did you not say he was lost for Agamemnon's
sake? Perhaps I may have seen him, for I have traveled far."

But the swineherd answered, "Old man, his wife and son will believe no traveler's tale. They
have heard too many such. Every wandering beggar who comes to Ithaca goes to my mistress with
some empty story to get a meal for himself, and she welcomes him and treats him kindly and
asks him about it all, with the tears running down her cheeks in a woman's way. Yes, even you,
old man, might learn to weave such tales if you thought they would get you a cloak or a vest.
No, he is dead, and dogs and birds have eaten him, or else he has fed the fishes and his bones
lie somewhere on the seashore, buried in the sand. And he has left us all to grieve for him,
but no one more than me, who can never have so kind a master again, not though I had my heart's
desire and went back to my native land and saw my father and mother, and the dear home where
I was born. It is Ulysses above all whom I long to see once more. There, stranger, I have called
him by his name, and that I should not do; for he is still my dear master though he is far away."

Then Ulysses said, "My friend, your hope has gone and you will never believe me. But I tell
you this and seal it with an oath: Ulysses will return! Poor as I am, I will take no reward
for my news till he comes to his own again, but you shall give me a new vest and cloak that
day, and I will wear them."

But the swineherd answered, "Ah, my friend, I shall never need to pay you that reward. He will
never come back again. But now drink your wine in peace, and let us talk of something else,
and do not call to mind the sorrow that almost breaks my heart. Tell me of yourself and your
own troubles and who you are, and what ship brought you here, for you will not say you came afoot."

Then Ulysses pretended he was a Cretan and had fought at Troy, and told Eumæus a long tale
of adventures and how he had been wrecked at last on the coast of Epirus. The king of the country,
he said, had rescued him, and he had learned that Ulysses had been there a little while before,
and was already on his way to Ithaca.

The swineherd listened eagerly to it all, but when Ulysses had finished he said, "Poor friend,
my heart aches to hear of all your sufferings. But there is one thing you should not have said,
one thing I can never believe, and that is that Ulysses will return. And why need you lie to
please me? I can see for myself that you are old and unhappy, a wanderer whom the Gods have
sent to me. It is not for such a tale I will show you the kindness that you need, but because
I pity you myself and reverence the law of Zeus."

"If I lie," Ulysses answered, "you may have me thrown from the cliff as a warning to other
cheats. I swear it, and call the Gods to witness."

But the true-hearted swineherd only said, "I should get a good name by that, my friend, if
I took you into nay house and had you for my guest, and then murdered you brutally! Do you
think I could pray to Zeus after that without a fear? But now it is supper-time, and my men
will be coming home." While they spoke, the herdsmen came up with the swine, and the sows were
driven into the pens, grunting and squealing noisily as they settled in for the night. Then
Eumæus called out, "Bring in the fattest boar, and let us make a sacrifice in honor of our
guest, and get some reward ourselves for all the trouble we have spent upon the drove,--trouble
lost, since strangers take the fruit of it all."

So they brought in a big fat white-tusked boar, while Eumæus split the wood for the fire. And
he did not forget the Immortals, for he had a pious heart: he made the due offerings first
and prayed for his master's return, and then he stood up at the board to carve, and gave each
man his share and a special slice for his guest from the whole length of the chine. Ulysses
took it and thanked him with all his heart:--

"May Father Zeus be your friend, Eumæus, and give you what I would give you for your kindness
to a poor old man like me."

But the swineherd said, "Take it, my good friend, take it and enjoy it. Zeus will give or withhold
as it may please him, for he can do all things."

So they sat down to the feast, and after they had had their fill the swineherd's servant cleared
everything away, and then they made ready for sleep. The evening closed in black and stormy,
and a west wind sprang up bringing the rain with it, and blew hard all the night; so Eumæus
made up a bed of fleeces for Ulysses by the fire and gave him a great thick cloak as well,
that he kept for the roughest weather. But he could not bring himself to stay there too, away
from his herd of pigs, and he wrapped himself up warmly and went out to sleep beside them in
the open. Ulysses saw, and smiled to see, what care he took of everything, while he thought
his master was far away.

[On the following morning] Ulysses and the swineherd were already preparing their breakfast
when Telemachus came up. The dogs knew him and played round him lovingly. "Eumæus," said Ulysses,
"some friend of yours is coming, for I hear footsteps, and the dogs are pleased and do not bark."

He had hardly finished speaking when his own dear son stood in the doorway. The swineherd started
up and dropped the vessels in which he was mixing the wine. He went to meet his young master
and fell on his neck and kissed him as a father would kiss an only son escaped from death.
"Light of my eyes, dear son, have you come home at last? When you sailed away to Pylos, I never
thought to see you again. But come in and let me feast my eyes upon you; for you do not often
visit us, but are kept at home in the town, watching that crowd of ruinous suitors."

And Telemachus answered, "Gladly, good father; I have come to see you, and to hear tidings
of my mother."

Then the swineherd told him that his mother still waited patiently at home, and spent her days
and nights in weeping.

Then Telemachus went into the house, and as he came up Ulysses rose to give him his seat, but
he would not take it, and said, "Keep your seat, stranger, this man shall make up another for
me." So Ulysses sat down again, and the swineherd made a seat for Telemachus of the green brushwood
and put a fleece upon it. Then he set food before them, and when they had eaten, Telemachus
asked who the stranger was, and how he had come to Ithaca. And Eumæus told him Ulysses's own
story and begged him to protect the wanderer. But Telemachus thought of the suitors and did
not wish to take him to the palace.

"I will give him a coat and a vest," he said, "and shoes for his feet, and a two-edged sword,
and I will send him on his way. But I cannot take him into the house, where the suitors would
mock at him and use him ill. One man cannot restrain them, and he so young as I."

Then Ulysses said, "Sir, if I may speak, I would say foul wrong is done you in your house,
and my heart burns at the thought. Do your people hate you, or will your brothers give you
no support? Would that I were as young as you are, and were Ulysses's son or Ulysses himself.
I would go to the palace and fall upon all the throng, and die there, one man against a hundred,
sooner than see the shameful deeds that are done in that glorious house."

And Telemachus answered, "Hear me, stranger, and I will tell you all. My people do not hate
me, and I have no quarrel with them. But I have no brothers to stand by me, for Zeus has never
given more than one son to each generation of our line. And there are many foemen in the house,
all the princes of the islands, and they too woo my mother and threaten my life, and I cannot
see how it will end."

Then he said to Eumæus, "Go up to the house, old father, as quickly as you can, and tell my
mother that I am come back safe from Pylos, and I will wait for you here."

And Eumæus answered, "I hear, master, and understand. But shall I not go to Laertes on my way
and tell him too? For since you set sail for Pylos, they say he has not eaten or drunk or gone
about his work, but sits in his house sorrowing and wasting away with grief."

But Telemachus bade him go straight to the palace and return at once, and let the queen send
word to Laertes by one of the maids. So Eumæus went forth, and when Athene saw him go, she
drew near, and came and stood by the gateway and showed herself to Ulysses, a tall and beautiful
woman, with wisdom in her look. The dogs saw her too and were afraid, and shrank away whining
into the corner of the yard, but Telemachus could not see her. Then the goddess nodded to Ulysses,
and he went out and stood before her, and she said, "Noble Ulysses, now is the time to reveal
yourself to your son, and go forth with him to the town, with death and doom for the suitors.
I shall be near you in the battle and eager to fight."

Then she touched him with her golden wand and gave him his beauty and stature once more, and
his old bronzed color came back and his beard grew thick and his garments shone bright again:
and so she sent him to the hut. And when Telemachus saw him, he marveled and turned away his
eyes, for he thought it must be a god.

"Stranger," he said, "you are changed since a moment ago; your color is not the same, nor your
garments. If you are one of the Immortals, be gracious to us, and let us offer you gifts and
sacrifice."

Then Ulysses cried out, "I am no god, but your own dear father, for whose sake you are suffering
cruel wrongs and the spite of men." And then he kissed his son and let his tears take their
way at last.

But Telemachus could not believe it, and said, "You cannot be my father, but a god come down
to deceive me and make me grieve still more. No mortal could do what you have done, for a moment
since you were old and wretched, and poorly clad, and now you seem like one of the heavenly Gods."

Then his father answered, "My son, no other Ulysses will ever come back to you. Athene has
done this wonder, for she is a goddess and can make men what she will, now poor, now rich,
now old, now young; such power have the lords of heaven to exalt us or bring us low."

Then Telemachus fell on his neck, and they wept aloud together. And they would have wept out
their hearts till evening, had not Telemachus asked his father how he had come to Ithaca at
last; and Ulysses told him that the sea-kings had brought him and put him on shore asleep,
and that Athene had sent him to the swineherd's hut. "But now tell me of the suitors. How many
are they and what manner of men? Can the two of us make head against the throng?"

"Father," he answered, "I know well your fame, mighty and wise in war. But this we could never
dare, two men against a host. They are a hundred and twenty in all, the best fighting men from
Ithaca and the islands round. Think, if you can, of some champion who would befriend us and
give us help."

And Ulysses made answer, "What think you, if Father Zeus and the goddess Athene stood by our
side? Should we still need other help?"

"Truly they are the best of champions," said Telemachus, "though they sit on high among the
clouds; and they rule both men and Gods." "And they will be with us," said his father, "when
we come to the trial of war. Now at daybreak you must go home and mix with the suitors, and
later on the swineherd will bring me to the town, disguised again as the old beggar-man; and
if they ill-treat me or even strike me or drag me out of the house, you must look on and bear
it. You may check them by speaking, but they will not listen, for the day of their doom is
at hand. And tell no one that Ulysses has come home, not even Laertes nor the swineherd nor
Penelope herself; we must keep the secret until we are sure of our friends."

Then Telemachus said that his father might trust him, and so they talked on together. Meanwhile
Eumæus had reached the palace with the tidings that Telemachus had returned; and the suitors
who were in the hall heard it and were dismayed, for they saw that their plot had failed. They
went out of the palace and sat down before the gates, and were talking of sending word to their
ship that was lying in wait for Telemachus, when the ship itself came into the harbor, with
the other princes on board. So they all went up together to the public square and debated what
to do, and they resolved to murder Telemachus as soon as they found another chance. Then they
went back and sat down again on the polished seats in the hall.

Now Medon the herald had heard them plotting together in the square, and went and told Penelope
all they had said, and how they had purposed putting her son to death. She went down at once
to the hall with her women, and stood in the doorway with her bright veil before her face and
spoke to Antinous and said, "Wicked and insolent man, can it be that they call you in Ithaca
one of their wisest men? No, it is a fool's work you are doing, plotting to kill my son. He
is helpless before you now, but Zeus is the friend of the helpless and avenges their wrongs.
Impious and ungrateful too! Did not Ulysses once shield your father from his enemies and save
his life? Yet you waste his substance and would murder his son?"

Then Eurymachus spoke and tried to soothe her. No one, he said, should injure Telemachus while
he was alive, for he loved him more than any man on earth. Eurymachus's words were fair, and
Penelope could say no more; yet all the while he was planning the death of her son.

In the evening the swineherd reached his hut again, and found Ulysses changed to the old beggar-man
once more, preparing supper with Telemachus.

"What news, good Eumæus?" said the young man. "Have the proud lords come home from their ambush,
or are they still waiting out yonder to take me as I return?" And Eumæus replied, "I did not
stay, master, to go through the town and find out the news, for when I had given my message
I wanted to be at home. But one thing I saw from the brow of the hill as I came along. A swift
ship was entering the harbor, full of armor and armed men. They may have been the princes,
but I cannot say."

As he heard this, Telemachus looked at his father and smiled, but he took good care that the
swineherd should not see.

THE VENGEANCE OF ULYSSES

A. HIS RECEPTION AT THE PALACE.

By F. S. Marvin, R. J. C. Mayor, and F. M. Stowell

Early next morning, when the rosy-fingered dawn was in the sky, Telemachus bound on his sandals
and took his stout spear in his hand, and said to the swineherd, "Old friend, I must now be
off to the city and let my mother see me, for I know she will weep and sigh until I am there
myself. And as for this poor stranger, I would have you take him to the town and let him beg
for bite and sup from door to door, and those who choose can give. For I cannot be host to
every wanderer with all the trouble I have to bear. And if that makes him angry--well! it is
only the worse for him; I am a man that speaks his mind."

Then Ulysses answered readily, "Sir, I do not ask to stay here myself; a beggar should not
beg in the fields. Nor am I young enough to work on a farm at a master's beck and call. So
go your ways, and your man shall take me with him to the town. But I will wait till the sun
is high, for I am afraid of the morning frost with these threadbare rags of mine."

So Telemachus strode away until he reached the palace, and went into the hall. The old nurse
Eurycleia was there with the maids, spreading fleeces on the inlaid stools and chairs; and
she saw him at once and went up to him with tears in her eyes, and then all the women gathered
round and kissed him and welcomed him home again. And Penelope came down from her chamber and
flung her arms round her son, and kissed his head and both his eyes, and said to him tearfully,
"You have come home, Telemachus, light of my eyes! I thought I should never see you again,
when you sailed away to Pylos secretly, against my will, to get tidings of your father. And
now tell me all you heard."

But Telemachus said to her, "Mother, why make me think of trouble now, when I have just escaped
from death? Rather put on your fairest robes, and go and pray the Gods to grant us a day of
vengeance. But I must be off to the public square to meet a guest of mine whom I brought here
in my ship. I sent him on before me with the crew, and bade one of them take him to his house
until I came myself."

So Penelope went away and prayed to the Gods, while the prince went down to the public square
and found Theoclymenus and brought him back to the palace, and they sat down together in the
hall. Then one of the old servants brought up a polished table and spread it for them with
good things for their meal, and Penelope came and sat beside the door, spinning her fine soft
yarn. She did not speak till they had finished, but then she said to her son, "Telemachus,
I see I must go up to my room and lie down on my bed, the bed I have watered with my tears
ever since Ulysses went away to Troy; for you are determined not to talk to me and tell me
the news of your father before the suitors come into the hall!"

Then Telemachus said, "Mother, I will tell you all I know. We reached Pylos and found Nestor
there, and he took me into his splendid house, and welcomed me as lovingly as though I had
been a long-lost son of his own. But he could tell me nothing of my father, not even if he
were alive or dead, and so he sent me on to Sparta, to the house of Menelaus. There I saw Helen,
the fairest of women, for whom the Greeks and Trojans fought and suffered so long. Menelaus
asked me why I came and I told him about the suitors and all the wrong they did. Then he cried,
'Curse on them! The dastards in the hero's place! Oh, that Ulysses would return! They would
soon have cause enough to hate this suit of theirs!' And then he told me how he had heard tidings
of my father from Proteus, the wizard of the sea. He was living still, so the wizard said,
on an island far away, in the cave of a wood nymph called Calypso, who kept him there against
his will, and he had no ship to carry him over the broad sea. That was all Menelaus could tell
me; and when I had done my errand I came away, and the Gods have brought me home in safety."

And as Penelope listened her heart filled with sorrow; but Theoclymenus, the seer, said to
her, "Listen to me, wife of Ulysses, and I will prophesy to you; for your son has heard nothing
certain, but I have seen omens that are sure. I swear by Zeus, the ruler of the Gods, and by
the board and the hearth of Ulysses himself where I am standing now, he is already here in
Ithaca, he knows of all this wickedness, and is waiting to punish the suitors as they deserve."

At that moment the princes came in from their sport and flung their cloaks aside, and set about
slaughtering the sheep and the fatted goats and the swine for their feast.

Meanwhile Ulysses was starting for the town, with the swineherd to show him the way. He had
slung the tattered wallet across his shoulder, and Eumæus had given him a staff, and every
one who met them would have taken the king for a poor old beggar-man, hobbling along with his
crutch.

So they went down the rocky path till they reached a running spring by the wayside where the
townsfolk got their water. There was a grove of tall poplars round it, and the cool stream
bubbled down from the rock overhead, and above the fountain there was an altar to the nymphs
where the passers-by laid their offerings.

There they chanced to meet Melanthius, the king's goatherd, driving his fattest goats to the
town for the suitors' feast. He was a favorite of theirs, and did all he could to please them.
Now as soon as he saw the two he broke out into scoffs and gibes, till the heart of Ulysses
grew hot with anger.

"Look there!" he shouted, "one rascal leading another! Trust a man to find his mate! A plague
on you, swineherd, where are you taking that pitiful wretch? Another beggar, I suppose, to
hang about the doors and cringe for the scraps and spoil our feasts? Now if you would only
let me have him to watch my farm and sweep out my stalls and fetch fodder for my kids, he could
drink as much whey as he liked and get some flesh on his bones. But no! His tricks have spoilt
him for any honest work!"

So he jeered at them in his folly, and as he passed he kicked Ulysses on the thigh, but the
king stood firm, and took the blow in silence, though he could have found it in his heart to
strike the man dead on the spot. But Eumæus turned round fiercely, and cried to the Gods for
vengeance.

"Nymphs of the spring," he prayed, "if ever my master honored you, hear my prayer, and send
him home again! He would make a sweep of all your insolence, you good-for-nothing wretch, loitering
here in the city while your flocks are left to ruin!"

"Oho!" cried Melanthius. "Listen to the foul-mouthed dog! I must put him on board a ship and
sell him in a foreign land, and make some use of him that way! Why, Ulysses will never see
the day of his return! He is dead and gone; I wish his son would follow him!"

With that he turned on his heel and hastened away to the palace hall, where he sat down with
the suitors at their feast. And the other two followed slowly until they reached the gate.
There they paused, and Ulysses caught the swineherd by the hand, and cried,--

"Eumæus, this must be the palace of the king! No one could mistake it. See, there is room after
room, and a spacious courtyard with a wall and coping-stones and solid double doors to make
it safe. And I am sure that a great company is seated there at the banquet, for I can smell
the roasted meat and hear the sound of the lyre."

Then Eumæus said, "Your wits are quick enough; it is the very place. And now tell me: would
you rather go in alone and face the princes while I wait here, or will you stay behind and
let me go in first? But if you wait here, you must not wait too long, for some one might catch
sight of you and strike you and drive you from the gate."

Then the hero said to him, "I understand; I knew what I had to meet. Do you go first and I
will wait behind. For I have some knowledge of thrusts and blows, and my heart has learned
to endure; for I have suffered much in storm and battle, and I can bear this like the rest."

But while they were talking, a dog who was lying there lifted his head and pricked his ears.
It was the hound Argus, whom Ulysses had reared himself long ago before the war, but had to
leave behind when he went away to Troy. Once he used to follow the hunters to the chase, but
no one cared for him now when his master was away, and he lay there covered with vermin, on
a dung-heap in front of the gates. Yet even so, when he felt that Ulysses was near him, he
wagged his tail and dropped his ears; but he had not strength enough to drag himself up to
his master. And when Ulysses saw it, he turned away his face so that Eumæus should not see
the tears in his eyes, and said, "Eumæus, it is strange that they let that dog lie there in
the dung. He looks a noble creature, but perhaps he has never been swift enough for the chase,
and they have only kept him for his beauty."

"Ah, yes!" Eumæus answered, "it is easy to see that he has no master now. If you had been here
when Ulysses went to Troy, you would have wondered at the creature's pace and strength. In
the thickest depth of the forest no quarry could escape him, and no hound was ever keener-scented.
But now he is old and wretched and his lord has perished far away, and the heedless women take
no care of him. Slaves can do nothing as they ought when the master is not there, for a man
loses half his manhood when he falls into slavery."

Then Eumæus went on into the palace and up to the hall where the suitors were. But Argus had
seen his master again at last, and when he had seen him, he died.

As soon as the swineherd came in, Telemachus caught sight of him, and beckoned him to a stool
at his side, and gave him his share of the feast. After a little while Ulysses came up too,
and sat down on the threshold like a poor old beggar-man. Then his son sent him meat and bread
by the swineherd, and said that a beggar should be bold, and he ought to go among the princes
and ask each man for a dole. So he went round from one to the other, stretching out his hand
for a morsel in the true beggar's way. And every one else felt some pity and gave him an alms,
but Antinous mocked at them all and told them they were ready enough to be generous with another's
wealth. And at last he grew angry and cursed Ulysses for a whining rascal, and hurled a footstool
at his head, bidding him begone and trouble them no more. The stool struck Ulysses on the shoulder,
but he stood like a rock, motionless and silent, with black thoughts in his heart. Then he
went back straight to the threshold and sat down and spoke to all the company:--

"Listen to me, my lords! No man bears any rancor for a blow in open war, but Antinous has struck
me because I am a beggar and know the curse of hunger. If there be any gods who avenge the
poor man's cause, I pray that he may die before his marriage day!"

At that the others felt shame, and told Antinous he did wrong to strike the homeless wanderer.

"Who knows?" they said. "He might be one of the heavenly Gods, and woe to you if he were! For
sometimes the Immortals take upon themselves the likeness of strangers, and enter our cities,
and go about among men, watching the good and evil that they do."

Thus they warned him, but he cared little for all they said. And Telemachus sat there full
of rage and grief to see his father struck, but he kept back the tears and held his peace.

Now Penelope was sitting in her room behind the hall, and she saw what had happened, and was
angry with Antinous, and called the swineherd to her side.

"Go, good Eumæus, and tell the stranger to come here. And I will ask him if he has ever heard
of Ulysses, for he looks like a man who has wandered far."

And the swineherd said, "Yes, he is a Cretan, and has had all kinds of adventures before he
was driven here, and he could tell you stories that would charm you like a minstrel's sweetest
song, and you would never tire of listening. And he says that he has heard of Ulysses, near
home, in the rich land of Epirus, and that he is already on his way to us, bringing a store
of treasures with him."

Then Penelope said, "Quick, bring the stranger here at once, and let him speak with me face
to face. And if I see that he tells the truth I will give him a vest and a cloak for himself."

So the swineherd hurried back with the message; but Ulysses said he dared not face the princes
a second time and it would be better to speak with Penelope later in the evening, alone by
the fireside; and when the queen heard this, she said that the stranger was right. By this
time it was afternoon, and Eumæus went up to Telemachus and whispered that he must be off to
his work again. Telemachus said he might go, but bade him have supper first and told him to
come back next morning without fail. So the swineherd took his food in the hall, and then started
home for his farm, to look after his pigs and everything that he had charge of there.

B. THE TRIAL OF THE BOW

Translated by George Herbert Palmer

And now the goddess, clear-eyed Athene, put in the mind of Icarius's daughter, heedful Penelope,
to offer to the suitors in the hall the bow and the gray steel, as means of sport and harbingers
of death. She mounted the long stairway of her house, holding a crooked key in her firm hand,--a
goodly key of bronze, having an ivory handle,--and hastened with her damsels to a far-off room
where her lord's treasure lay, bronze, gold, and well-wrought steel. Here also lay his curved
bow and the quiver for his arrows,--and many grievous shafts were in it still,--gifts which
a friend had given Ulysses when he met him once in Lacedæmon,--Iphitus, son of Eurytus, a man
like the Immortals. At Messene the two met, in the house of wise Orsilochus. Ulysses had come
hither to claim a debt, which the whole district owed him; for upon ships of many oars Messenians
carried off from Ithaca three hundred sheep together with their herdsmen. In the long quest
for these, Ulysses took the journey when he was but a youth; for his father and the other elders
sent him forth. Iphitus, on the other hand, was seeking horses; for twelve mares had been lost,
which had as foals twelve hardy mules. These afterwards became the death and doom of Iphitus
when he met the stalwart son of Zeus, the hero Hercules, who well knew deeds of daring; for
Hercules slew Iphitus in his own house, although his guest, and recklessly did not regard the
anger of the Gods nor yet the proffered table, but slew the man and kept at his own hall the
strong-hoofed mares. It was when seeking these that Iphitus had met Ulysses and given the bow
which in old days great Eurytus was wont to bear, and which on dying in his lofty hall he left
his son. To Iphitus Ulysses gave a sharp-edged sword and a stout spear, as the beginning of
a loving friendship. They never sat, however, at one another's table; ere that could be, the
son of Zeus slew godlike Iphitus, the son of Eurytus, who gave the bow. Royal Ulysses, when
going off to war in the black ships, would never take this bow. It always stood in its own
place at home, as a memorial of his honored friend. In his own land he bore it.

Now when the royal lady reached this room and stood on the oaken threshold,--which long ago
the carpenter had smoothed with skill and leveled to the line, fitting the posts thereto and
setting the shining doors,--then quickly from its ring she loosed the strap, thrust in the
key, and with a careful aim shot back the door-bolts. As a bull roars when feeding in the field,
so roared the goodly door touched by the key, and open flew before her. She stepped to a raised
dais where stood some chests in which lay fragrant garments. Thence reaching up, she took from
its peg the bow in the glittering case which held it. And now she sat her down and laid the
case upon her lap, and loudly weeping drew her lord's bow forth. But when she had had her fill
of tears and sighs, she hastened to the hall to meet the lordly suitors, bearing in hand the
curved bow and the quiver for the arrows, and many grievous shafts were in it still. Beside
her, damsels bore a box in which lay many a piece of steel and bronze, implements of her lord's
for games like these. And when the royal lady reached the suitors, she stood beside a column
of the strong-built roof, holding before her face her delicate wimple, the while a faithful
damsel stood on either hand. And straightway she addressed the suitors, speaking thus:--

"Hearken, you haughty suitors who beset this house, eating and drinking ever, now my husband
is long gone; no word of excuse can you suggest except your wish to marry me and win me for
your wife. Well then, my suitors,--since before you stands your prize,--I offer you the mighty
bow of prince Ulysses; and whoever with his hands shall lightliest bend the bow and shoot through
all twelve axes, him will I follow and forsake this home, this bridal home, so very beautiful
and full of wealth, a place I think I ever shall remember, even in my dreams."

So saying, she bade Eumæus, the noble swineherd, deliver to the suitors the bow and the gray
steel. With tears Eumæus took the arms and laid them down before them. Near by, the neatherd
also wept to see his master's bow. But Antinous rebuked them, and spoke to them and said,--

"You stupid boors, who only mind the passing minute, wretched pair, what do you mean by shedding
tears, troubling this lady's heart, when already her heart is prostrated with grief at losing
her dear husband? Sit down and eat in silence, or else go forth and weep, but leave the bow
behind, a dread ordeal for the suitors; for I am sure this polished bow will not be bent with
ease. There is not a man of all now here so powerful as Ulysses. I saw him once myself, and
well recall him, though I was then a child."

He spoke, but in his breast his heart was hoping to draw the string and send an arrow through
the steel; yet he was to be the first to taste the shaft of good Ulysses, whom he now wronged
though seated in his hall, while to like outrage he encouraged all his comrades. To these now
spoke revered Telemachus:--

"Ha! Zeus the son of Cronos has made me play the fool! My mother--and wise she is--says she
will follow some strange man and quit this house; and I but laugh and in my silly soul am glad.
Come then, you suitors, since before you stands your prize, a lady whose like cannot be found
throughout Achaian land, in sacred Pylos, Argos, or Mycenæ, in Ithaca itself, or the dark mainland,
as you yourselves well know,--what needs my mother praise?--come then, delay not with excuse
nor longer hesitate to bend the bow, but let us learn what is to be. I too might try the bow.
And if I stretch it and send an arrow through the steel, then with no shame to me my honored
mother may forsake this house and follow some one else, leaving me here behind; for I shall
then be able to wield my father's arms."

He spoke, and flung his red cloak from his shoulders, rising full height, and put away the
sharp sword also from his shoulder. First then he set the axes, marking one long furrow for
them all, aligned by cord. The earth on the two sides he stamped down flat. Surprise filled
all beholders to see how properly he set them, though he had never seen the game before. Then
he went and stood upon the threshold and began to try the bow. Three times he made it tremble
as he sought to make it bend. Three times he slacked his strain, still hoping in his heart
to draw the string and send an arrow through the steel. And now he might have drawn it by force
of a fourth tug, had not Ulysses shaken his head and stayed the eager boy. So to the suitors
once more spoke revered Telemachus:--

"Fie! Shall I ever be a coward and a weakling, or am I still but young and cannot trust my
arm to right me with the man who wrongs me first? But come, you who are stronger men than I,
come try the bow and end the contest."

So saying, he laid by the bow and stood it on the ground, leaning it on the firm-set polished
door. The swift shaft, too, he likewise leaned against the bow's fair knob, and once more took
the seat from which he first arose. Then said to them Antinous, Eupeithes' son,--

"Rise up in order all, from left to right, beginning where the cupbearer begins to pour the wine."

So said Antinous, and his saying pleased them. Then first arose Leiodes, son of Oenops, who
was their soothsayer and had his place beside the goodly mixer, farthest along the hall. To
him alone their lawlessness was hateful; he abhorred the suitor crowd. He it was now who first
took up the bow and the swift shaft; and going to the threshold, he stood and tried the bow.
He could not bend it. Tugging the string wearied his hands,--his soft, unhorny hands,--and
to the suitors thus he spoke:--

"No, friends, I cannot bend it. Let some other take the bow. Ah, many chiefs this bow shall
rob of life and breath! Yet better far to die than live and still to fail in that for which
we constantly are gathered, waiting expectantly from day to day! Now each man hopes and purposes
at heart to win Penelope, Ulysses' wife. But when he shall have tried the bow and seen his
failure, then to some other fair-robed woman of Achaia let each go, and offer her his suit
and woo her with his gifts. So may Penelope marry the man who gives her most and comes with
fate to favor!" Strange words and harsh! Vexatious words to hear! As if this bow must rob our
chiefs of life and breath because you cannot bend it! Why, your good mother did not bear you
for a brandisher of bows and arrows. But others among the lordly suitors will bend it by and by."

So saying, he gave an order to Melanthius, the goatherd: "Hasten, Melanthius, and light a fire
in the hall and set a long bench near, with fleeces on it; then bring me the large cake of
fat which lies inside the door, that after we have warmed the bow and greased it well, we young
men may try the bow and end the contest."

He spoke, and straightway Melanthius kindled a steady fire, and set a bench beside it with
a fleece thereon, and brought out the large cake of fat which lay inside the door, and so the
young men warmed the bow and made their trial. But yet they could not bend it; they fell far
short of power. Antinous, however, still held back, and prince Eurymachus, who were the suitors'
leaders; for they in manly excellence were quite the best of all.

Meanwhile out of the house at the same moment came two men, princely Ulysses' herdsmen of the
oxen and the swine; and after them came royal Ulysses also from the house. And when they were
outside the gate, beyond the yard, speaking in gentle words Ulysses said,--

"Neatherd, and you too, swineherd, may I tell a certain tale, or shall I hide it still? My
heart bids me speak. How ready would you be to aid Ulysses if he should come from somewhere,
thus, on a sudden, and a god should bring him home? Would you support the suitors or Ulysses?
Speak freely, as your heart and spirit bid you speak."

Then said to him the herdsman of the cattle, "O father Zeus, grant this my prayer! May he return
and Heaven be his guide! Then shall you know what might is mine and how my hands obey."

So prayed Eumæus too to all the Gods, that wise Ulysses might return to his own home. So when
he knew with certainty the heart of each, finding his words once more Ulysses said,--

"Lo, it is I, through many grievous toils now in the twentieth year come to my native land!
And yet I know that of my servants none but you desire my coming. From all the rest I have
not heard one prayer that I return. To you then I will truly tell what shall hereafter be.
If God by me subdues the lordly suitors, I will obtain you wives and give you wealth and homes
established near my own; and henceforth in my eyes you shall be friends and brethren of Telemachus.
Come, then, and I will show you too a very trusty sign,--that you may know me certainly and
be assured in heart,--the scar the boar dealt long ago with his white tusk, when I once journeyed
to Parnassus with Autolycus's sons."

So saying, he drew aside his rags from the great scar. And when the two beheld and understood
it all, their tears burst forth; they threw their arms round wise Ulysses, and passionately
kissed his face and neck. So likewise did Ulysses kiss their heads and hands. And daylight
had gone down upon their weeping had not Ulysses stayed their tears and said,--

"Have done with grief and wailing, or somebody in coming from the hall may see, and tell the
tale indoors. Nay, go in one by one, not all together. I will go first, you after. And let
this be agreed: the rest within, the lordly suitors, will not allow me to receive the bow and
quiver. But, noble Eumæus, bring the bow along the room and lay it in my hands. Then tell the
women to lock the hall's close-fitting doors; and if from their inner room they hear a moaning
or a strife within our walls, let no one venture forth, but stay in silence at her work. And
noble Philoetius, in your care I put the courtyard gates. Bolt with the bar and quickly lash
the fastening."

So saying, Ulysses made his way into the stately house, and went and took the seat from which
he first arose. And soon the serving-men of princely Ulysses entered too.

Now Eurymachus held the bow and turned it up and down, trying to heat it at the glowing fire.
But still, with all his pains, he could not bend it; his proud soul groaned aloud. Then bitterly
he spoke; these were the words he said,--

"Ah! here is woe for me and woe for all! Not that I so much mourn missing the marriage, though
vexed I am at that. Still, there are enough more women of Achaia, both here in sea-girt Ithaca
and in the other cities. But if in strength we fall so short of princely Ulysses that we cannot
bend his bow--oh, the disgrace for future times to know!"

Then said Antinous, Eupeithes' son, "Not so, Eurymachus, and you yourself know better. To-day
throughout the land is the archer-god's high feast. Who then could bend a bow? Nay, quietly
lay it by; and for the axes, what if we leave them standing? Nobody. I am sure, will carry
one away and trespass on the house of Laertes' son, Ulysses. Come then, and let the wine-pourer
give pious portions to our cups, that after a libation we may lay aside curved bows. To-morrow
morning tell Melanthius, the goatherd, to drive us here the choicest goats of all his flock;
and we will set the thighs before the archer-god, Apollo, then try the bow and end the contest."

So said Antinous, and his saying pleased them. Pages poured water on their hands; young men
brimmed bowls with drink and served to all, with a first pious portion for the cups. And after
they had poured and drunk as their hearts would, then in his subtlety said wise Ulysses,--

"Hearken, you suitors of the illustrious queen, and let me tell you what the heart within me
bids. I beg a special favor of Eurymachus, and great Antinous too; for his advice was wise,
that you now drop the bow and leave the matter with the Gods, and in the morning God shall
grant the power to whom he may. But give me now the polished bow, and let me in your presence
prove my skill and power and see if I have yet such vigor left as once there was within my
supple limbs, or whether wanderings and neglect have ruined all."

At these his words all were exceeding wroth, fearing that he might bend the polished bow. But
Antinous rebuked him, and spoke to him and said, "You scurvy stranger, with not a whit of sense,
are you not satisfied to eat in peace with us, your betters, unstinted in your food and hearing
all we say? Nobody else, stranger or beggar, hears our talk. 'Tis wine that goads you, honeyed
wine, a thing that has brought others trouble, when taken greedily and drunk without due measure.
Wine crazed the Centaur, famed Eurytion, at the house of bold Peirithous, on his visit to the
Lapithæ. And when his wits were crazed with wine, he madly wrought foul outrage on the household
of Peirithous. So indignation seized the heroes. Through the porch and out of doors they rushed,
dragging Eurytion forth, shorn by the pitiless sword of ears and nose. Crazed in his wits,
he went his way, bearing in his bewildered heart the burden of his guilt. And hence arose a
feud between the Centaurs and mankind; but the beginning of the woe he himself caused by wine.
Even so I prophesy great harm to you, if you shall bend the bow. No kindness will you meet
from any in our land, but we will send you by black ship straight to King Echetus, the bane
of all mankind, out of whose hands you never shall come clear. Be quiet, then, and take your
drink! Do not presume to vie with younger men!"

Then said to him heedful Penelope, "Antinous, it is neither honorable nor fitting to worry
strangers who may reach this palace of Telemachus. Do you suppose the stranger, if he bends
the great bow of Ulysses, confident in his skill and strength of arm, will lead me home and
take me for his wife? He in his inmost soul imagines no such thing. Let none of you sit at
the table disturbed by such a thought; for that could never, never, be!"

Then answered her Eurymachus, the son of Polybus, "Daughter of Icarius, heedful Penelope, we
do not think the man will marry you. Of course that could not be. And yet we dread the talk
of men and women, and fear that one of the baser sort of the Achaians say,'Men far inferior
sue for a good man's wife, and cannot bend his polished bow. But somebody else--a wandering
beggar--came, and easily bent the bow and sent an arrow through the steel.' This they will
say, to us a shame indeed."

Then said to him heedful Penelope, "Eurymachus, men cannot be in honor in the land and rudely
rob the household of their prince. Why, then, count this a shame? The stranger is right tall,
and well-knit too, and calls himself the son of a good father. Give him the polished bow, and
let us see. For this I tell you, and it shall be done: if he shall bend it and Apollo grants
his prayer, I will clothe him in a coat and tunic, goodly garments, give him a pointed spear
to keep off dogs and men, a two-edged sword, and sandals for his feet, and I will send him
where his heart and soul may bid him go."

Then answered her discreet Telemachus, "My mother, no Achaian has better right than I to give
or to refuse the bow to any as I will. And out of all who rule in rocky Ithaca, or in the islands
off toward grazing Elis, none may oppose my will, even if I wished to put the bows into the
stranger's hands and let him take them once for all away. Then seek your chamber and attend
to matters of your own,--the loom, the distaff,--and bid the women ply their tasks. Bows are
for men, for all, especially for me; for power within this house rests here."

Amazed, she turned to her own room again, for the wise saying of her son she laid to heart.
And coming to the upper chamber with her maids, she there bewailed Ulysses, her dear husband,
till on her lids clear-eyed Athene caused a sweet sleep to fall.

Meanwhile the noble swineherd, taking the curved bow, was bearing it away. But the suitors
all broke into uproar in the hall, and a rude youth would say, "Where are you carrying the
curved bow, you miserable swineherd? Crazy fool! Soon out among the swine, away from men, swift
dogs shall eat you,--dogs you yourself have bred,--will but Apollo and the other deathless
Gods be gracious!" At these their words the bearer of the bow laid it down where he stood,
frightened because the crowd within the hall cried out upon him. But from the other side Telemachus
called threatening aloud, "Nay, father! Carry on the bow! You cannot well heed all. Take care,
or I, a nimbler man than you, will drive you to the fields with pelting stones. Superior in
strength I am to you. Ah, would I were as much beyond the others in the house, beyond these
suitors, in my skill and strength of arm! Then would I soon send somebody away in sorrow from
my house; for men work evil here."

He spoke, and all burst into merry laughter and laid aside their bitter anger with Telemachus.
And so the swineherd, bearing the bow along the hall, drew near to wise Ulysses and put it
in his hands; then calling aside nurse Eurycleia, thus he said,--

"Telemachus bids you, heedful Eurycleia, to lock the hall's close-fitting doors; and if a woman
from the inner room hears moaning or a strife within our walls, let her not venture forth,
but stay in silence at her work."

Such were his words; unwinged, they rested with her. She locked the doors of the stately hall.
Then silently from the house Philoetius stole forth and straightway barred the gates of the
fenced court. Beneath the portico there lay a curved ship's cable, made of biblus plant. With
this he lashed the gates, then passed indoors himself, and went and took the seat from which
he first arose, eyeing Ulysses. Now Ulysses already held the bow and turned it round and round,
trying it here and there to see if worms had gnawed the horn while its lord was far away. And
glancing at his neighbor one would say,--

"A sort of fancier and a trickster with the bow this fellow is. No doubt at home he has himself
a bow like that, or means to make one like it. See how he turns it in his hands this way and
that, ready for mischief,--rascal!"

Then would another rude youth answer thus: "Oh, may he always meet with luck as good as when
he is unable now to bend the bow!"

So talked the suitors. Meantime wise Ulysses, when he had handled the great bow and scanned
it closely,--even as one well skilled to play the lyre and sing stretches with ease round its
new peg a string, securing at each end the twisted sheep-gut, so without effort did Ulysses
string the mighty bow. Holding it now with his right hand, he tried its cord; and clear to
the touch it sang, voiced like the swallow. Great consternation came upon the suitors. All
faces then changed color. Zeus thundered loud for signal. And glad was long-tried royal Ulysses
to think the son of crafty Cronos had sent an omen. He picked up a swift shaft which lay beside
him on the table, drawn. Within the hollow quiver still remained the rest, which the Achaians
soon should prove. Then laying the arrow on the arch, he drew the string and arrow notches,
and forth from the bench on which he sat let fly the shaft, with careful aim, and did not miss
an axe's ring from first to last, but clean through all sped on the bronze-tipped arrow; and
to Telemachus he said,--

"Telemachus, the guest now sitting in your hall brings you no shame. I did not miss my mark,
nor in the bending of the bow make a long labor. My strength is sound as ever, not what the
mocking suitors here despised. But it is time for the Achaians to make supper ready, while
it is daylight still; and then for us in other ways to make them sport,--with dance and lyre;
for these attend a feast."

He spoke and frowned the sign. His sharp sword then Telemachus girt on, the son of princely
Ulysses clasped his right hand around his spear, and close beside his father's seat he took
his stand, armed with the gleaming bronze.

C. THE SLAYING OF THE SUITORS

By F. S. Marvin, R. J. C. Mayor, and F. M. Stowell

Ulysses sprang to the great threshold with the bow and quiver in his hand. He poured out the
arrows at his feet, and shouted to the princes, "So ends the game you could not play! Now for
another mark which no man has ever hit before!"

With that he shot at Antinous. He, as it chanced, was just lifting a golden cup from the board,
never dreaming that death would meet him there with all his comrades round him at the feast.
But before the wine touched his lips the arrow struck him in the throat, and the cup dropped
from his hand, and he fell dying to the floor. The princes sprang to their feet when they saw
their comrade fallen, and looked round the walls for armor, but there was not a spear or shield
to be found. Then they turned in fury on Ulysses: "Madman, are you shooting at men? You have
slain the noblest youth in Ithaca, and you shall not live to draw bow again."

But Ulysses faced them sternly and said, "Dogs, you thought that I should never return. You
have rioted in my home, and outraged the women of my household, and you have wooed my own wife
while I was yet a living man. You took no thought for the Gods who rule in heaven, nor for
the indignation of men in days hereafter. Now your time is come."

All grew pale as he spoke, and Eurymachus alone found words: "If you are in truth King Ulysses,
your words are just; there have been many shameful deeds done upon your lands and in your house.
But Antinous, who was the cause of all, lies dead; it was he who lead us on, hoping that he
might take your kingdom for himself. Spare us now that he has met his doom, for we are your
own people; and we will make you full atonement for all that has been eaten and drunk in your
halls."

"Eurymachus, you might give me all you have, but even then I would not hold my hands until
I had taken vengeance for every wrong. You have your choice. Fight, or fly, if you think that
flight can save you."

At that their knees shook beneath them, but Eurymachus cried, "Comrades, this man will have
no mercy. He has got the bow in his hands, and he will shoot us down from the threshold, so
long as there is one of us left alive. Draw your swords, and guard yourselves, with the tables;
and let us all set upon him at once and drive him from the doorway. If we can reach the city,
we are safe."

As he spoke he drew his sword and sprang forward with a cry; and at the same moment Ulysses
shot. The arrow struck him in the breast, and he dropped forward over the table, while the
mist of death sank upon his eyes. Then Amphinomus made a rush on the doorway. But Telemachus
was too quick for him; he hurled his spear and struck him from behind between the shoulders,
and he fell crashing on the floor. Telemachus sprang back, leaving the spear, for he dared
not wait to draw it out. He darted to his father's side. "Father, we ought to have armor; I
will go and get weapons for us."

"Run and bring them," said. Ulysses, "while I have arrows left; when these are gone I cannot
hold the doorway against them all."

So Telemachus ran to the armory and hurried back with helmets and shields and spears; and he
armed himself and made the two servants do the same, and they took their stand beside the king.
While the arrows lasted, Ulysses shot, and struck down the wooers man by man. And then he leant
the bow against the doorpost, and slung the shield about him and put on the helmet and took
two spears in his hand.

Now there was a postern in the hall, close beside the great doorway and opening on the corridor.
Ulysses had put the swineherd to guard it, and now the boldest of the suitors said to the rest,
"Could not some of us force a passage there and raise the cry for rescue?"

"Little use in that," said Melanthius, "the great doorway is too close, and one brave man might
stop us all before we reached the court. I have a better plan. Ulysses and his son have stowed
away the weapons, and I think I know where they are. I will go and fetch you what you need."

With these words he clambered up through the lights of the hall and got into the armory, and
fetched out twelve shields and as many spears and helmets, and brought them to the princes.
The heart of Ulysses misgave him when he saw the armor and the long spears in their hands;
and he felt that the fight would go hard, and said to Telemachus, "Melanthius or one of the
women has betrayed us."

"Father, it was my fault," said Telemachus; "I left the door of the armory open, and one of
them must have kept sharper watch than I did. Go, Eumæus, make fast the door, and see whether
this is the doing of Melanthius, as I guess."

While they spoke, Melanthius went again to fetch more armor, and the swineherd spied him and
said, "There is the villain going to the armory, as we thought; tell me, shall I kill him,
if I can master him, or shall I bring him here to suffer for his sins?" "Telemachus and I will
guard the doorway here," said Ulysses, "and you and the shepherd shall bind him hand and foot
and leave him in the chamber to wait his doom."

So the two went up to the armory, and stood in wait on either side of the door; and as Melanthius
came out, they leapt upon him and dragged him back by the hair and flung him on the ground
and bound him tightly to a pillar hand and foot. "Lie there," said Eumæus, "and take your ease:
the dawn will not find you sleeping, when it is time for you to rise and drive out your goats."
With that they went back to join Ulysses, and the four stood together at the threshold,--four
men against a host.

Then Athene came among them in the likeness of Mentor, and Ulysses knew her and rejoiced. "Mentor,"
he shouted, "help me in my need, for we are comrades from of old." And the wooers sent up another
shout, "Do not listen to him, Mentor; or your turn will come when he is slain." But Athene
taunted Ulysses and spurred him to the fight: "Have you lost your strength and courage, Ulysses?
It was not thus you did battle for Helen in the ten years' war at Troy. Is it so hard to face
the suitors in your own house and home? Come, stand by me, and see if Mentor forgets old friendship."
Yet she left the victory still uncertain, that she might prove his courage to the full. She
turned herself into a swallow and flew up into the roof and perched on a blackened rafter overhead.

Then the wooers took courage, when they saw that Mentor was gone, and that the four stood alone
in the doorway. And one of them said to the rest, "Let six of us hurl our spears together at
Ulysses. If once he falls, there will be little trouble with the rest." So they flung their
spears as he bade them; but all of them missed the mark. Then Ulysses gave the word to his
men, and they all took steady aim and threw, and each one killed his man; and the wooers fell
back into the farther end of the hall, while the four dashed on together and drew out their
spears from the bodies of the slain. Once more the suitors hurled, and Telemachus and the swineherd
were wounded; but the other spears fell wide. Then at last Athene lifted her shield of war
high overhead,--the shield that brings death to men,--and panic seized the wooers, and they
fled through the hall like a drove of cattle when the gadfly stings them. But the four leapt
on them like vultures swooping from the clouds; and they fled left and right through the hall,
but there was no escape.

Only Phemius, the minstrel, whom the wooers had forced to sing before them, sprang forward
and clasped the knees of Ulysses and said, "Have mercy on me, Ulysses: you would not slay a
minstrel, who gladdens the hearts of Gods and men? The princes forced me here against my will."

And Telemachus heard and said to his father, "Do not hurt him, for he is not to blame: and
let us save the herald too, if he is yet alive, for he took care of me when I was a child."

Now the herald had hidden himself under a stool and pulled an ox-hide over him, and when he
heard this he crept out and clasped the knees of Telemachus and begged that he would plead
for him. "Have no fear," said Ulysses; "my son has saved your life. Go out, you and the minstrel,
and wait in the courtyard, for I have other work to do within." So the two went out into the
courtyard, and sat down beside the altar, looking for their death each moment.

Then Ulysses searched through the hall, to see if any one was yet lurking alive. But they all
lay round him fallen in the dust and blood, heaped upon each other like fishes on a sunny beach
when the fisherman has drawn his net to land. Then he told Telemachus to call out the old nurse
Eurycleia. She came and found Ulysses standing among the bodies of the slain, with his hands
and feet all stained with blood, and she was ready to shout aloud for triumph when she saw
the great work accomplished. But Ulysses checked her cry and said, "Keep your joy unspoken,
old nurse; there should be no shout of triumph over the slain. It is the judgment of Heaven
that has repaid them for the evil deeds they did."

Then he gave orders that the bodies of the dead should be carried out and that the blood should
be washed away. And when this was done he turned to Eurycleia and said, "Bring fire and sulphur
now and I will purify the hall. Then bid Penelope meet me here."

"Yes, my child," said the old nurse, "I will obey you. But let me bring you a mantle first:
it is not fitting that you should stand here with only your rags to cover you." But Ulysses
said that she must do his bidding at once. So she brought sulphur and lit a fire, and Ulysses
purified the hall.

D. PENELOPE RECOGNIZES ULYSSES

Translated by George Herbert Palmer

The old woman, full of glee, went to the upper chamber to tell her mistress her dear lord was
in the house. Her knees grew strong; her feet outran themselves. By Penelope's head she paused,
and thus she spoke:--

"Awake, Penelope, dear child, to see with your own eyes what you have hoped to see this many
a day! Ulysses is here! He has come home at last, and slain the haughty suitors, the men who
vexed his house, devoured his substance, and oppressed his son."

Then heedful Penelope said to her, "Dear nurse, the Gods have crazed you. They can befool one
who is very wise, and often they have set the simple in the paths of prudence. They have confused
you; you were sober-minded heretofore. Why mock me when my heart is full of sorrow, telling
wild tales like these? And why arouse me from the sleep that sweetly bound me and kept my eyelids
closed? I have not slept so soundly since Ulysses went away to see accursed Ilium,--name never
to be named. Nay then, go down, back to the hall. If any other of my maids had come and told
me this and waked me out of sleep, I would soon have sent her off in sorry wise into the hall
once more. This time age serves you well."

Then said to her the good nurse Eurycleia, "Dear child, I do not mock you. In very truth it
is Ulysses; he is come, as I have said. He is the stranger whom everybody in the hall has set
at naught. Telemachus knew long ago that he was here, but out of prudence hid his knowledge
of his father till he should have revenge from those bold men for wicked deeds."

So spoke she; and Penelope was glad, and, springing from her bed, fell on the woman's neck,
and let the tears burst from her eyes; and, speaking in winged words, she said,--

"Nay, tell me, then, dear nurse, and tell me truly; if he is really come as you declare, how
was it he laid hands upon the shameless suitors, being alone, while they were always here together?"

Then answered her the good nurse Eurycleia, "I did not see; I did not ask; I only heard the
groans of dying men. In a corner of our protected chamber we sat and trembled,--the doors were
tightly closed,--until your son Telemachus called to me from the hall; for his father bade
him call. And there among the bodies of the slain I found Ulysses standing. All around, covering
the trodden floor, they lay, one on another. It would have warmed your heart to see him, like
a lion, dabbled with blood and gore. Now all the bodies are collected at the courtyard gate,
while he is fumigating the fair house by lighting a great fire. He sent me here to call you.
Follow me, then, that you may come to gladness in your true hearts together, for sorely have
you suffered. Now the long hope has been at last fulfilled. He has come back alive to his own
hearth, and found you still, you and his son, within his hall; and upon those who did him wrong,
the suitors, on all of them here in his home he has obtained revenge."

Then heedful Penelope said to her, "Dear nurse, be not too boastful yet, nor filled with glee.
You know how welcome here the sight of him would be to all, and most to me and to the son we
had. But this is no true tale you tell. Nay, rather some immortal slew the lordly suitors,
in anger at their galling insolence and wicked deeds; for they respected nobody on earth, bad
man or good, who came among them. So for their sins they suffered. But Ulysses, far from Achaia,
lost the hope of coming home; nay, he himself was lost."

Then answered her the good nurse Eurycleia, "My child, what word has passed the barrier of
your teeth, to say your husband, who is now beside your hearth, will never come! Your heart
is always doubting. Come, then, and let me name another sign most sure,--the scar the boar
dealt long ago with his white tusk. I found it as I washed him, and I would have told you then;
but he laid his hand upon my mouth, and in his watchful wisdom would not let me speak. But
follow me. I stake my very life; if I deceive you, slay me by the vilest death."

Then heedful Penelope answered her, "Dear nurse, 'tis hard for you to trace the counsels of
the everlasting Gods, however wise you are. Nevertheless, let us go down to meet my son, and
see the suitors who are dead, and him who slew them."

So saying, she went from her chamber to the hall, and much her heart debated whether aloof
to question her dear husband, or to draw near and kiss his face and take his hand. But when
she entered, crossing the stone threshold, she sat down opposite Ulysses, in the firelight,
beside the farther wall. He sat by a tall pillar, looking down, waiting to hear if his stately
wife would speak when she should look his way. But she sat silent long; amazement filled her
heart. Now she would gaze with a long look upon his face, and now she would not know him for
the mean clothes that he wore. But Telemachus rebuked her, and spoke to her and said,--

"Mother, hard mother, of ungentle heart, why do you hold aloof so from my father, and do not
sit beside him, plying him with words and questions? Your heart is always harder than a stone!"

Then said to him heedful Penelope, "My child, my soul within is dazed with wonder. I cannot
speak to him, nor ask a question, nor look him in the face. But if this indeed is Ulysses,
come at last, we certainly shall know each other better than others know; for we have signs
which we two understand,--signs hidden from the rest."

As she, long tried, spoke thus, royal Ulysses smiled, and said to Telemachus forthwith in winged
words, "Telemachus, leave your mother in the hall to try my truth. She soon will know me better.
Now, because I am foul and dressed in sorry clothes, she holds me in dishonor, and says I am
not he. But you and I have yet to plan how all may turn out well. For whoso kills one man among
a tribe, though the man leaves few champions behind, becomes an exile, quitting kin and country.
We have destroyed the pillars of the state, the very noblest youths of Ithaca. Form, then,
a plan, I pray."

Then answered him discreet Telemachus, "Look you to that, dear father. Your wisdom is, they
say, the best among mankind. No mortal man can rival you. Zealously will we follow, and not
fail, I think, in daring, so far as power is ours."

Then wise Ulysses answered him and said, "Then I will tell you what seems best to me. First
wash and put on tunics, and bid the maids about the house array themselves. Then let the sacred
bard with tuneful lyre lead us in sportive dancing, that men may say, hearing us from without,
'It is a wedding,' whether such men be passers-by or neighboring folk; and so broad rumor may
not reach the town about the suitors' murder till we are gone to our well-wooded farm. There
will we plan as the Olympian shall grant us wisdom."

So he spoke, and willingly they heeded and obeyed. For first they washed themselves and put
on tunics, and the women also put on their attire. And then the noble bard took up his hollow
lyre, and in them stirred desire for merry music and the gallant dance; and the great house
resounded to the tread of lusty men and gay-girt women. And one who heard the dancing from
without would say, "Well, well! some man has married the long-courted queen. Hard-hearted!
For the husband of her youth she would not guard her great house to the end, till he should
come." So they would say, but knew not how things were.

Meanwhile within the house Eurynome, the housekeeper, bathed resolute Ulysses and anointed
him with oil, and on him put a goodly robe and tunic. Upon his face Athene cast great beauty;
she made him taller than before, and stouter to behold, and made the curling locks to fall
round his head as on the hyacinth flower. As when a man lays gold on silver,--some skillful
man whom Vulcan and Pallas Athene have trained in every art, and he fashions graceful work,
so did she cast a grace upon his head and shoulders.

Then said to him heedful Penelope, "Nay, sir, I am not proud, nor contemptuous of you, nor
too much dazed with wonder. I very well remember what you were when you went upon your long-oared
ship away from Ithaca. However, Eurycleia, make up his massive bed outside that stately chamber
which he himself once built. Move the massive frame out there, and throw the bedding on,--the
fleeces, robes, and bright-hued rugs."

She said this in the hope to prove her husband, but Ulysses spoke in anger to his faithful
wife: "Woman, these are bitter words which you have said! Who set my bed elsewhere? A hard
task that would be for one, however skilled,--unless a god should come and by his will set
it with ease upon some other spot; but among men no living being, even in his prime, could
lightly shift it; for a great token is inwrought into its curious frame. I built it; no one
else. There grew a thick-leaved olive shrub inside the yard, full-grown and vigorous, in girth
much like a pillar. Round this I formed my chamber, and I worked till it was done, building
it out of close-set stones, and roofing it over well. Framed and tight-fitting doors I added
to it. Then I lopped the thick-leaved olive's crest, cutting the stem high up above the roots,
neatly and skillfully smoothed with my axe the sides, and to the line I kept all true to shape
my post, and with an auger I bored it all along. Starting with this, I fashioned me the bed
till it was finished, and I inlaid it well with gold, with silver, and with ivory. On it I
stretched a thong of ox-hide, gay with purple. This is the token I now tell. I do not know
whether the bed still stands there, wife, or whether somebody has set it elsewhere, cutting
the olive trunk."

As he spoke thus, her knees grew feeble and her very soul, when she recognized the tokens which
Ulysses exactly told. Then bursting into tears, she ran straight toward him, threw her arms
round Ulysses' neck and kissed his face, and said,--

"Ulysses, do not scorn me! Ever before, you were the wisest of mankind. The Gods have sent
us sorrow, and grudged our staying side by side to share the joys of youth and reach the threshold
of old age. But do not be angry with me now, nor take it ill that then when I first saw you
I did not greet you thus; for the heart within my breast was always trembling. I feared some
man might come and cheat me with his tale. Many a man makes wicked schemes for gain. Nay, Argive
Helen, the daughter of Zeus, would not have given herself to love a stranger if she had known
how warrior sons of the Achaians would bring her home again, back to her native land. And yet
it was a god prompted her deed of shame. Before, she did not cherish in her heart such sin,
such grievous sin, from which began the woe which stretched to us. But now, when you have clearly
told the tokens of our bed, which no one else has seen, but only you and I and the single servant,
Actoris, whom my father gave me on my coming here to keep the door of our closed chamber,--you
make even my ungentle heart believe."

So she spoke, and stirred still more his yearning after tears; and he began to weep, holding
his loved and faithful wife. As when the welcome land appears to swimmers, whose sturdy ship
Neptune wrecked at sea, confounded by the winds and solid waters; a few escape the foaming
sea and swim ashore; thick salt foam crusts their flesh; they climb the welcome land, and are
escaped from danger; so welcome to her gazing eyes appeared her husband. From round his neck
she never let her white arms go. And rosy-fingered dawn had found them weeping, but a different
plan the goddess formed, clear-eyed Athene. She checked the long night in its passage, and
at the ocean-stream she stayed the gold-throned dawn, and did not suffer it to yoke the swift-paced
horses which carry light to men, Lampus and Phaethon, which bear the dawn. And now to his wife
said wise Ulysses,--

"O wife, we have not reached the end of all our trials yet. Hereafter comes a task immeasurable,
long and severe, which I must needs fulfill; for so the spirit of Tiresias told me, that day
when I descended to the house of Hades to learn about the journey of my comrades and myself.
But come, my wife, let us to bed, that there at last we may refresh ourselves with pleasant sleep."

Then said to him heedful Penelope, "The bed shall be prepared whenever your heart wills, now
that the Gods have let you reach your stately house and native land. But since you speak of
this, and God inspires your heart, come, tell that trial. In time to come, I know, I shall
experience it. To learn about it now, makes it no worse."

Then wise Ulysses answered her and said, "Lady, why urge me so insistently to tell? Well, I
will speak it out; I will not hide it. Yet your heart will feel no joy; I have no joy myself;
for Tiresias bade me go to many a peopled town, bearing in hand a shapely oar, till I should
reach the men that know no sea and do not eat food mixed with salt. These, therefore, have
no knowledge of the red-cheeked ships, nor of the shapely oars which are the wings of ships.
And this was the sign, he said, easy to be observed. I will not hide it from you. When another
traveler, meeting me, should say I had a winnowing-fan on my white shoulder, there in the ground
he bade me fix my oar and make fit offerings to lord Neptune,--a ram, a bull, and the sow's
mate, a boar,--and, turning homeward, to offer sacred hecatombs to the immortal gods who hold
the open sky, all in the order due. And on myself death from the sea shall very gently come
and cut me off, bowed down with hale old age. Round me shall be a prosperous people. All this,
he said, should be fulfilled."

Then said to him heedful Penelope, "If gods can make old age the better time, then there is
hope there will be rest from trouble."

So they conversed together. Meanwhile, Eurynome and the nurse prepared their bed with clothing
soft, under the light of blazing torches. And after they had spread the comfortable bed, with
busy speed, the old woman departed to her room to rest; while the chamber-servant, Eurynome,
with torch in hand, walked on before, as they two came to bed. She brought them to their chamber,
and then she went her way. So they came gladly to their old bed's rites. And now Telemachus,
the neatherd, and the swineherd stayed their feet from dancing, and bade the women stay, and
all betook themselves to rest throughout the dusky halls. No sleep fell on her eyelids till
he had told her all.

He began with how at first he conquered the Ciconians, and came thereafter to the fruitful
land of Lotus-Eaters; then what the Cyclops did, and how he took revenge for the brave comrades
whom the Cyclops ate, and never pitied; then how he came to Æolus, who gave him hearty welcome
and sent him on his way; but it was fated that he should not reach his dear land yet, for a
sweeping storm bore him once more along the swarming sea, loudly lamenting; how he came to
Telepylus in Læstrygonia, where the men destroyed his ships and his mailed comrades, all of
them; Ulysses fled in his black ship alone. He told of Circe, too, and all her crafty guile;
and how on a ship of many oars he came to the mouldering house of Hades, there to consult the
spirit of Teiresias of Thebes, and looked on all his comrades, and on the mother who had borne
him and cared for him when little; how he had heard the full-voiced Sirens' song; how he came
to the Wandering Rocks, to dire Charybdis and to Scylla, past whom none goes unharmed; how
then his crew slew the Sun's kine; how Zeus with a blazing bolt smote his swift ship,--Zeus,
thundering from on high,--and his good comrades perished, utterly, all, while he escaped their
evil doom; how he came to the island of Ogygia and to the nymph Calypso, who held him in her
hollow grotto, wishing him to be her husband, cherishing him, and saying she would make him
an immortal, young forever, but she never beguiled the heart within his breast; then how he
came through many toils to the Phæacians, who honored him exceedingly, as if he were a god,
and brought him on his way to his native land, giving him stores of bronze and gold and clothing.
This was the latest tale he told, when pleasant sleep fell on him, easing his limbs and from
his heart removing care. But as he turned to seek them, the night being now, by reason of many
fires, as clear as the day, he espied Helen sitting in the temple of Vesta, where she had sought
sanctuary; for she feared the men of Troy, to whom she had brought ruin and destruction, and
not less her own husband, whom she had deceived. Then was his wrath kindled, and he spake to
himself, "Shall this evil woman return safe to Sparta? Shall she see again her home and her
children, with Trojan women forsooth to be her handmaidens? Shall Troy be burnt and King Priam
be slain, and she take no harm? Not so; for though there be no glory to be won from such a
deed, yet shall I satisfy myself, taking vengeance upon her for my kinsmen and my countrymen."
But while he thought these things in his heart, lo! there appeared unto him Venus, his mother,
made manifest as he had never seen her before, as fair and as tall as the dwellers in heaven
behold her. Then Venus spake thus: "What meaneth all this rage, my son? Hast thou no care for
me? Hast thou forgotten thy father Anchises, and thy wife, and thy little son? Of a surety
the fire and the sword had consumed them long since but that I cared for them and saved them.
Fly, therefore, my son. I will not leave thee till thou shalt reach thy father's house." And
as she spake she vanished in the darkness.

Then did Æneas see dreadful forms and gods who were enemies of Troy, and before his eyes the
whole city seemed to sink down into the fire. Even as a mountain oak upon the hills on which
the woodmen ply their axes bows its head while all its boughs shake about it, till at last,
as blow comes after blow, with a mighty groan it falls crashing down from the height, even
so the city seemed to fall. Then did Æneas pass on his way, the goddess leading him, and the
flames gave place to him, and the javelins harmed him not.

But when he was come to his house he bethought him first of the old man his father; but when
he would have carried him to the hills, Anchises would not, being loath to live in some strange
country when Troy had perished. "Nay," said he, "fly ye who are strong and in the flower of
your days. But as for me, if the Gods had willed that I should live, they had saved this dwelling
for me. Enough it is, yea, and more than enough, that once I have seen this city taken, and
lived. Bid me, then, farewell as though I were dead. Death will I find for myself. And truly
I have long lingered here a useless stock and hated of the Gods, since Jupiter smote me with
the blast of his thunder."

Nor could the old man be moved from his purpose, though his son and his son's wife, and even
the child Ascanius, besought him with many tears that he should not make yet heavier the doom
that was upon them. Then was Æneas minded to go back to the battle and die. For what hope was
left? "Thoughtest thou, my father," he cried, "that I should flee and leave thee behind? What
evil word is this that has fallen from thy lips? If the Gods will have it that nought of Troy
should be left, and thou be minded that thou and thine should perish with the city, be it so.
The way is easy; soon will Pyrrhus be here: Pyrrhus, red with Priam's blood; Pyrrhus, who slays
the son before the face of the father, and the father at the altar. Was it for this, kind Mother
Venus, that thou broughtest me safe through fire and sword, to see the enemy in my home, and
my father and my wife and my son lying slaughtered together? Comrades, give me my arms, and
take me back to the battle. At the least I will die avenged."

But as he girded on his arms and would have departed from the house, his wife Creusa caught
his feet upon the threshold, staying him, and held out the little Ascanius, saying, "If thou
goest to thy death, take wife and child with thee; but if thou hopest aught from arms, guard
first the house where thou hast father and wife and child."

And lo! as she spake there befell a mighty marvel, for before the face of father and mother
there was seen to shine a light on the head of the boy Ascanius, and to play upon his waving
hair and glitter on his temples. And when they feared to see this thing, and would have stifled
the flame or quenched it with water, the old man Anchises in great joy raised his eyes to heaven,
and cried aloud, "O Father Jupiter, if prayer move thee at all, give thine aid and make this
omen sure." And even as he spake the thunder rolled on his left hand, and a star shot through
the skies, leaving a long trail of light behind, and passed over the house-tops till it was
hidden in the woods of Ida. Then the old man lifted himself up and did obeisance to the star,
and said, "I delay no more: whithersoever ye lead I will follow. Gods of my country, save my
house and my grandson. This omen is of you. And now, my son, I refuse not to go."

Then said Æneas, and as he spake the fire came nearer, and the light was clearer to see, and
the heat more fierce, "Climb, dear father, on my shoulders; I will bear thee, nor grow weary
with the weight. We will be saved or perish together. The little Ascanius shall go with me,
and my wife follow behind, not over near. And ye, servants of my house, hearken to me; ye mind
how that to one who passes out of the city there is a tomb and a temple of Ceres in a lonely
place, and an ancient cypress-tree hard by. There will we gather by divers ways. And do thou,
my father, take the holy images in thy hands, for as for me, who have but newly come from battle,
I may not touch them till I have washed me in the running stream."

And as he spake he put a cloak of lion's skin upon his shoulders, and the old man sat thereon.
Ascanius also laid hold of his hand, and Creusa followed behind. So he went in much dread and
trembling. For indeed before sword and spear of the enemy he had not feared, but now he feared
for them that were with him. But when he was come nigh unto the gates, and the journey was
well-nigh finished, there befell a grievous mischance, for there was heard a sound as of many
feet through the darkness; and the old man cried to him, "Fly, my son, fly; they are coming.
I see the flashing of shields and swords." But as Æneas hasted to go, Creusa his wife was severed
from him. But whether she wandered from the way or sat down in weariness, no man may say. Only
he saw her no more, nor knew her to be lost, till all his company being met at the temple of
Ceres, she only was found wanting. Very grievous did the thing seem to him, nor did he cease
to cry out in his wrath against Gods and men. Also he bade his comrades have a care of his
father and his son, and of the household gods, and girded him again with arms, and so passed
into the city. And first he went to the wall and to the gate by which he had come forth, and
then to his house, if haply she had returned thither. But there indeed the men of Greece were
come, and the fire had well-nigh mastered it. And after that he went to the citadel and to
the palace of King Priam. And lo! in the porch of Juno's temple, Phoenix and Ulysses were keeping
guard over the spoil, even the treasure of the temples, tables of the Gods, and solid cups
of gold, and raiment, and a long array of them that had been taken captive, children and women.
But not the less did he seek his wife through all the streets of the city, yea, and called
her aloud by name. But lo! as he called, the image of her whom he sought seemed to stand before
him, only greater than she had been while she was yet alive. And the spirit spake, saying,
"Why art thou vainly troubled? These things have not befallen us against the pleasure of the
Gods. The ruler of Olympus willeth not that Creusa should bear thee company in thy journey.
For thou hast a long journey to take, and many seas to cross, till thou come to the Hesperian
shore, where Lydian Tiber flows softly through a good land and a fertile. There shalt thou
have great prosperity, and take to thyself a wife of royal race. Weep not, then, for Creusa,
whom thou lovest, nor think that I shall be carried away to be a bond-slave to some Grecian
woman. Such fate befits not a daughter of Dardanus and daughter-in-law of Venus. The mighty
mother of the Gods keepeth me in this land to serve her. And now, farewell, and love the young
Ascanius, even thy son and mine."

So spake the spirit, and when Æneas wept and would have spoken, vanished out of his sight.
Thrice he would have cast his arms about her neck, and thrice the image mocked him, being thin
as air and fleeting as a dream. Then, the night being now spent, he sought his comrades, and
found with much joy and wonder that a great company of men and women were gathered together,
and were willing, all of them, to follow him whithersoever he went. And now the morning star
rose over Mount Ida, and Æneas, seeing that the Greeks held the city, and that there was no
longer any hope of succor, went his way to the mountains, taking with him his father.

ÆNEAS'S ADVENTURE WITH THE HARPIES

By Charles Henry Hanson

    [For three days the vessels of Æneas were tossed about by terrible
    storm winds.]

At last, on the fourth day, the fury of the storm abated, and they came in sight of land,--at
first lofty mountains, and afterwards, as they drew nearer, rich grassy plains, on which the
wanderers saw herds of cattle and flocks of goats grazing without a keeper. As soon as the
storm-beaten vessels could be brought to the shore, the Trojans hastened to land, and slaughtered
some of the cattle, preparing a luxurious banquet. But this they were not destined to enjoy
in peace; for scarcely had they stretched themselves on the couches they had hurriedly prepared
beside the food when there was a sudden rushing of wings, and three ghastly creatures swooped
down upon the feast, devoured a large part of it, and so defiled the rest with their loathsome
touch that very little was eatable. These were the Harpies, and by their appearance Æneas knew
that he and his companions had arrived at the Strophades, two islands in the Ionian Sea which
for many years had been given up to the monsters. They were fearful of aspect: down to the
breast they resembled women, with scanty black hair and glaring red-rimmed eyes, and on their
faces ever a famine-stricken look; but they had wings instead of arms, and their bodies and
lower limbs were those of huge birds, foul and uncleanly. These hateful creatures had long
before been sent by the Gods to plague Pheneus the Blind, king of Thrace, who had cruelly treated
his sons. Whenever a meal was spread for the king, the Harpies used to descend and devour it.
At last some brave warriors, who were passing through Thrace, were persuaded by the promise
of rewards from Pheneus to rid him of the monsters, and drove them to the far Strophades, where
they had ever since dwelt.

Irritated at the loss of their feast, Æneas and his companions prepared more food, and determined,
if necessary, to defend it with their swords. They accordingly concealed their weapons in the
grass, and stationed one of their number on the watch, to give notice with the sound of a trumpet
when the Harpies were approaching. This was done accordingly, and the obscene creatures, when
they again swooped down to seize on the cooked meats, which they relished more than any other
food, were driven off, though not without difficulty. But one of them, perching on a high rock,
croaked forth to the astonished mariners this dismal prophecy:--

"Woe to you, Trojans! Do you dare to make war upon us after having slain our oxen, and to banish
the innocent Harpies from the kingdom which is theirs by right? Fix, then, in your minds these
words, which the father of Gods and men revealed to Phoebus Apollo, and Apollo to me. Italy
is the land you seek, and Italy you shall reach at last, after many perils; but you shall not
build up the walls of your new-founded city until dire famine and suffering, visiting you because
you have injured us, shall compel you to devour your tables as well as the food that is upon them."

The gloomy prediction terrified most of the wanderers, and they urged Æneas to endeavor to
propitiate the unclean monsters with invocations and sacrifices. But Anchises, after imploring
Jupiter to ward off the threatened calamities, commanded that the expedition should at once
quit that melancholy shore. After passing the rugged cliffs of Ithaca, and uttering maledictions
on the land that bred Ulysses, the most cunning enemy of Troy, the exiles arrived in safety
at the harbor of Leucadia, where the ships were anchored, and the travelers landed to rest
awhile after the fatigues of the voyage. Here they celebrated the games of their country; and
Æneas hung on the door-posts of an ancient and famous temple of Apollo a suit of armor, which
he had taken from a Greek warrior slain before Troy, placing above it an inscription, "These
arms Æneas won from the victorious Greeks."

ÆNEAS IN THE LAND OF THE CYCLOPS

By Charles Henry Hanson

A day's sail over the blue Mediterranean brought Æneas and his followers in sight of the southeastern
shores of Italy; and as they saw the swelling hills and grassy plains of the promised land,
they broke into cries of joy. The ships were run into a secure harbor, and sacrifices offered
up for the propitiation of Minerva and of Juno; after which, mindful of the injunctions of
Helenus to avoid those parts of Italy which lay nearest to Greece, the adventurers resumed
their voyage. Keeping near the coast, they passed the Bay of Tarentum and the lofty promontories
of Calabria. Now came in sight the immense bulk of Etna, lifting its fire-crowned head into
the clouds; and the roaring of the terrible Charybdis could be distinctly heard. Remembering
the warnings of Helenus, they hastily turned to the left, and avoided the perilous strait,
but sought refuge in a place scarcely less dangerous; for they landed in the country of the
Cyclops, where, only a little while before, Ulysses had been with his comrades, and had endured
great sufferings at the hands of the giant Polyphemus. The Cyclops, it will be remembered,
were a race of savage shepherds, of immense stature, having each but one eye in the middle
of his forehead. They dwelt in caves, and kept great flocks and herds. Polyphemus was the largest
and fiercest of them all; and when Ulysses and his companions entered his cave he kept them
prisoners, and devoured several of them. The hero himself and the rest of his followers had
escaped him by making him drunk with wine they had brought on shore from their ships, and then
putting out his eye with a sharpened stake, the point of which they had hardened in the fire.
The knowledge of this adventure came to Æneas and his Trojans in a strange fashion. On the
morning after their arrival in the country of the Cyclops, they were on the shore, when they
were surprised to see a man emerge from the woods, and approach them with suppliant gestures.
His appearance was wild and emaciated, his beard overgrown, his garments ragged; but nevertheless
it was easy to perceive that he was a Greek. When he saw that the voyagers wore Trojan dress
and arms, he paused in fear, but the next moment he hurried toward them with tears and entreaties.

"I conjure you," he cried, "by the stars, by the powers above, by the light of heaven, ye Trojans,
take me hence. Carry me where you will, do with me what you will, I shall be content. I confess
that I was one who bore arms against Troy; if you deem that a crime, put me to death for it.
At least I shall have the satisfaction of dying by the hands of men."

Æneas and Anchises received the stranger kindly, assured him of his safety, and asked him who
he was, and how he came to be in that desolate country. He answered that he was an Ithacan,
his name Achæmenides, and that he had been one of the companions of Ulysses in his wanderings.
He related the adventures of the Ithacan hero in the cave of Polyphemus, and told how he himself,
having been by accident left behind when his comrades escaped, had since led a wretched existence
in the woods, living on wild berries and roots, and continually in dread lest he should be
seen by the Cyclops. He advised Æneas to lose no time in quitting the country, lest the ferocious
shepherds should discover and destroy them. Even as Achæmenides spoke, Polyphemus was seen
accompanying his flock to their pasture. So tall was he of stature that he carried the trunk
of a pine-tree as a staff to guide his footsteps. Reaching the sea he stepped into it, and
bent down to bathe the wound inflicted by Ulysses. The Trojans hastened to cut their cables,
and rowed out to sea. The giant heard the sound of their oars, and turned to follow them; but
in his blindness he dared not follow far, and therefore he called on his brethren with a cry
so loud that the very sea was shaken in its depths. Forthwith the huge Cyclops came trooping
to the shore, like a wood of lofty trees endued with life and motion; but by this time the
Trojan vessels had got beyond their reach.

ÆNEAS AND QUEEN DIDO

By Alfred J. Church

    [Æneas was driven by a storm upon the shores of Carthage.]

Now it came to pass on the next day that Æneas, having first hidden his ships in a bay that
was well covered with trees, went forth to spy out the new land whither he was come, and Achates
only went with him. And Æneas had in each hand a broad-pointed spear. And as he went there
met him in the middle of the wood his mother, but habited as a Spartan virgin, for she had
hung a bow from her shoulders after the fashion of a huntress, and her hair was loose, and
her tunic short to the knees, and her garments gathered in a knot upon her breast. Then first
the false huntress spake: "If perchance ye have seen one of my sisters wandering hereabouts,
make known to me the place. She is girded with a quiver, and is clothed with the skin of a
spotted lynx, or, maybe, she hunts a wild boar with horn and hound."

To whom Æneas, "I have not seen nor heard sister of thine, O virgin--for what shall I call
thee? for, of a surety, neither is thy look as of a mortal woman, nor yet thy voice. A goddess
certainly thou art, sister of Phoebus, or, haply, one of the nymphs. But whosoever thou art,
look favorably upon us and help us. Tell us in what land we be, for the winds have driven us
hither, and we know not aught of place or people."

And Venus said, "Nay, stranger, I am not such as ye think. We virgins of Tyre are wont to carry
a quiver and to wear a buskin of purple. For indeed it is a Tyrian city that is hard by, though
the land be Libya. And of this city Dido is queen, having come hither from Tyre, flying from
the wrong-doing of her brother. And indeed the story of the thing is long, but I will recount
the chief matter thereof to thee. The husband of this Dido was one Sichæus, richest among all
the men of Phoenicia, and greatly beloved of his wife, whom he married from a virgin. Now the
brother of this Sichæus was Pygmalion, the king of the country, and he exceeded all men in
wickedness. And when there arose a quarrel between them, the king, being exceedingly mad after
gold, took him unaware, even as he did sacrifice at the altar, and slew him. And the king hid
the matter many days from Dido, and cheated her with false hopes. But at the last there came
to her in her dreams the likeness of the dead man, baring his wounds and showing the wickedness
which had been done. Also he bade her make haste and fly from that land, and, that she might
do this the more easily, told her of great treasure, gold and silver, that was hidden in the
earth. And Dido, being much moved by these things, made ready for flight; also she sought for
companions, and there came together to her as many as hated the king or feared him. Then did
they seize ships that chanced to be ready and laded them with gold, even the treasure of King
Pygmalion, and so fled across the sea. And in all this was a woman the leader. Then came they
to this place, where thou seest the walls and citadel of Carthage, and bought so much land
as they could cover with a bull's hide. And now do ye answer me this, Whence come ye, and whither
do ye go?"

Then answered Æneas, "Should I tell the whole story of our wanderings, and thou have leisure
to hear, evening would come ere I could make an end. We are men of Troy, who, having journeyed
over many seas, have now been driven by storms to this shore of Libya. And as for me, men call
me Prince Æneas. The land I seek is Italy, and my race is from Jupiter himself. With twenty
ships did I set sail, going in the way whereon the Gods sent me. And of these scarce seven
are left. And now, seeing that Europe and Asia endure me not, I wander over the desert places
of Africa."

But Venus suffered him not to speak more, but said, "Whoever thou art, stranger, that art come
to this Tyrian city, thou art surely beloved by the Gods. And now go, show thyself to the queen.
And as for thy ships and thy companions, I tell thee that they are safe in the haven, if I
have not learnt augury in vain. See those twenty swans, how joyously they fly! And now there
cometh an eagle swooping down from the sky, putting them to confusion, but now again they move
in due order, and some are settling on the earth and some are preparing to settle. Even so
doth it fare with thy ships, for either are they already in the haven or enter thereinto with
sails full set."

And as she spoke she turned away, and there shone a rosy light from her neck, also there came
from her hair a sweet savor as of ambrosia, and her garments grew under her feet; and Æneas
perceived that she was his mother, and cried aloud,--

"O my mother, why dost thou mock me so often with false shows, nor sufferest me to join my
hand unto thy hand, and to speak with thee face to face?"

And he went towards the walls of the city. But Venus covered him and his companions with a
mist, that no man might see them, or hinder them, or inquire of their business, and then departed
to Paphos, where was her temple and also many altars of incense. Then the men hastened on their
way, and mounting a hill which hung over the city, marveled to behold it, for indeed it was
very great and noble, with mighty gates and streets, and a multitude that walked therein. For
some built the walls and the citadel, rolling great stones with their hands, and others marked
out places for houses. Also they chose those that should give judgment and bear rule in the
city. Some, too, digged out harbors, and others laid the foundations of a theatre, and cut
out great pillars of stone. Like to bees they were, when, the summer being newly come, the
young swarms go forth, or when they labor filling the cells with honey, and some receive the
burdens of those that return from the fields, and others keep off the drones from the hive.
Even so labored the men of Tyre. And when Æneas beheld them he cried, "Happy ye, who even now
have a city to dwell in!" And being yet hidden by the mist, he went in at the gate and mingled
with the men, being seen of none.

Now in the midst of the city was a wood, very thick with trees, and here the men of Carthage,
first come to the land from their voyage, had digged out of the ground that which Juno had
said should be a sign to them, even a horse's head; for that, finding this, their city would
be mighty in war, and full of riches. Here, then, Dido was building a temple to Juno, very
splendid, with threshold of bronze, and many steps thereunto; of bronze also were the door-posts
and the gates. And here befell a thing which gave much comfort and courage to Æneas; for as
he stood and regarded the place, waiting also for the queen, he saw set forth in order upon
the walls the battles that had been fought at Troy, the sons of Atreus also, and King Priam,
and fierce Achilles. Then said he, not without tears, "Is there any land, O Achates, that is
not filled with our sorrows? Seest thou Priam? Yet withal there is a reward for virtue here
also, and tears and pity for the troubles of men. Fear not, therefore. Surely the fame of these
things shall profit us."

Then he looked, satisfying his soul with the paintings on the walls. For there was the city
of Troy. In this part of the field the Greeks fled and the youth of Troy pursued them, and
in that the men of Troy fled, and Achilles followed hard upon them in his chariot. Also he
saw the white tents of Rhesus, king of Thrace, whom the fierce Diomed slew in his sleep, when
he was newly come to Troy, and drave his horses to the camp before they ate of the grass of
the fields of Troy or drank the waters of Nanthus. There also Troilus was pictured, ill matched
in battle with Achilles. His horses bare him along; but he lay on his back in the chariot,
yet holding the reins, and his neck and head were dragged upon the earth, and the spear-point
made a trail in the dust. And in another place the women of Troy went suppliant-wise to the
temple of Minerva, bearing a great and beautiful robe, sad and beating their breasts, and with
hair unbound; but the goddess regarded them not. Also Achilles dragged the body of Hector three
times round the walls of Troy, and was selling it for gold. And Æneas groaned when he saw the
man whom he loved, and the old man Priam reaching out helpless hands. Also he knew himself,
fighting in the midst of the Grecian chiefs; black Memnon also he knew, and the hosts of the
East; and Penthesilea leading the army of the Amazons with shields shaped as the moon. Fierce
she was to see, with one breast bared for battle, and a golden girdle beneath it, a damsel
daring to fight with men.

But while Æneas marveled to see these things, lo! there came, with a great throng of youths
behind her, Dido, most beautiful of women, fair as Diana, when, on the banks of Eurotas or
on the hills of Cynthus, she leads the dance with a thousand nymphs of the mountains about
her. On her shoulder she bears a quiver, and overtops them all, and her mother, even Latona,
silently rejoices to behold her. So fair and seemly to see was Dido as she bare herself right
nobly in the midst, being busy in the work of her kingdom. Then she sat herself down on a lofty
throne in the gate of the temple, with many armed men about her. And she did justice between
man and man; also she divided the work of the city, sharing it equally or parting by lot.

Then of a sudden Æneas heard a great clamor, and saw a company of men come quickly to the place,
among whom were Antheus and Sergestus and Cloanthus, and others of the men of Troy that had
been parted from him in the storm. Right glad was he to behold them, yet was not without fear;
and though he would fain have come forth and caught them by the hand, yet did he tarry, waiting
to hear how the men had fared, where they had left their ships, and wherefore they were come.

Then Ilioneus, leave being now given that he should speak, thus began: "O Queen, whom Jupiter
permits to build a new city in these lands, we men of Troy, whom the winds have carried over
many seas, pray thee that thou save our ships from fire, and spare a people that serveth the
Gods. For, indeed, we are not come to waste the dwellings of this land, or to carry off spoils
to our ships. For, of a truth, they who have suffered so much think not of such deeds. There
is a land which the Greeks call Hesperia, but the people themselves Italy, after the name of
their chief; an ancient land, mighty in arms and fertile of corn. Hither, were we journeying,
when a storm arising scattered our ships, and only these few that thou seest escaped to the
land. And can there be nation so savage that it receiveth not shipwrecked men on its shore,
but beareth arms against them, and forbiddeth them to land? Nay, but if ye care not for men,
yet regard the Gods, who forget neither them that do righteously nor them that transgress.
We had a king, Æneas, than whom there lived not a man more dutiful to Gods and men, and greater
in war. If indeed he be yet alive, then we fear not at all. For of a truth it will not repent
thee to have helped us. And if not, other friends have we, as Acestes of Sicily. Grant us,
therefore, to shelter our ships from the wind; also to fit them with fresh timber from the
woods, and to make ready oars for rowing, so that, finding again our king and our companions,
we may gain the land of Italy. But if he be dead, and Ascanius his son lost also, then there
is a dwelling ready for us in the land of Sicily, with Acestes, who is our friend."

Then Dido, her eyes bent on the ground, thus spake: "Fear not, men of Troy. If we have seemed
to deal harshly with you, pardon us, seeing that, being newly settled in this land, we must
keep watch and ward over our coasts. But as for the men of Troy, and their deeds in arms, who
knows them not? Think not that we in Carthage are so dull of heart, or dwell so remote from
man, that we are ignorant of these things. Whether, therefore, ye will journey to Italy or
rather return to Sicily and King Acestes, know that I will give you all help, and protect you;
or, if ye will, settle in this land of ours. Yours is this city which I am building. I will
make no difference between man of Troy and man of Tyre. Would that your king also were here!
Surely I will send those that shall seek him in all parts of Libya, lest haply he should be
gone astray in any forest or strange city of the land."

And when Æneas and Achates heard these things they were glad, and would have come forth from
the cloud, and Achates said, "What thinkest thou? Lo, thy comrades are safe, saving him whom
we saw with our own eyes drowned in the waves; and all other things are according as thy mother
said."

And even as he spake the cloud parted from about them, and Æneas stood forth, very bright to
behold, with face and breast as of a god, for his mother had given to him hair beautiful to
see, and cast about him the purple light of youth, even as a workman sets ivory in some fair
ornament, or compasseth about silver or marble of Paros with gold. Then spake he to the queen:
"Lo! I am he whom ye seek, even Æneas of Troy, scarcely saved from the waters of the sea. And
as for thee, O Queen, seeing that thou only hast been found to pity the unspeakable sorrows
of Troy, and biddest us, though we be but poor exiles and lacking all things, to share thy
city and thy home, may the Gods do so to thee as thou deservest. And, of a truth, so long as
the rivers run to the seas, and the shadows fall on the hollows of the hills, so long will
thy name and thy glory survive, whatever be the land to which the Gods shall bring me." Then
gave he his right hand to Ilioneus, and his left hand to Sergestus, and greeted them with great
joy.

And Dido, hearing these things, was silent for a while, but at the last she spake. "What ill
fortune brings thee into perils so great? what power drave thee to these savage shores? Well
do I mind me how in days gone by there came to Sidon one Teucer, who, having been banished
from his country, sought help from Belus that he might find a kingdom for himself. And it chanced
that in those days Belus, my father, had newly conquered the land of Cyprus. From that day
did I know the tale of Troy, and thy name also, and the chiefs of Greece. Also I remember that
Teucer spake honorably of the men of Troy, saying that he was himself sprung of the old Teucrian
stock. Come ye, therefore to my palace. I too have wandered far, even as you, and so have come
to this land, and having suffered much, have learnt to succor them that suffer."

So saying she led Æneas into her palace; also she sent to his companions in the ships great
store of provisions, even twenty oxen and a hundred bristly swine and a hundred ewe sheep with
their lambs. But in the palace a great feast was set forth, couches covered with broidered
purple and silver vessels without end, and cups of gold, whereon were embossed the mighty deeds
of the men of old time.

And in the mean time Æneas sent Achates in haste to the ships, that he might fetch Ascanius
to the feast. Also he bade that the boy should bring with him gifts of such things as they
had saved from the ruins of Troy,--a mantle stiff with broidery of gold and a veil bordered
with yellow acanthus, which the fair Helen had taken with her, flying from her home; but Leda,
her mother, had given them to Helen; a sceptre likewise which Ilione, first-born of the daughters
of Priam, had carried, and a necklace of pearls and a double crown of jewels and gold.

But Venus was troubled in heart, fearing evil to her son should the men of Tyre be treacherous,
after their wont, and Juno remember her wrath. Wherefore, taking counsel with herself, she
called to the winged boy, even Love, that was her son, and spake: "My son, who art all my power
and strength, who laughest at the thunders of Jupiter, thou knowest how Juno, being exceedingly
wroth against thy brother Æneas, causeth him to wander out of the way over all lands. This
day Dido hath him in her palace, and speaketh him fair; but I fear me much how these things
may end. Wherefore hear thou that which I purpose. Thy brother hath even now sent for the boy
Ascanius, that he may come to the palace, bringing with him gifts of such things as they saved
from the ruins of Troy. Him will I cause to fall into a deep sleep and hide in Cythera or Idalium,
and do thou for one night take upon thee his likeness. And when Queen Dido at the feast shall
hold thee in her lap, and kiss and embrace thee, do thou breathe by stealth thy fire into her
heart."

Then did Love as his mother bade him, and put off his wings, and took upon him the shape of
Ascanius, but on the boy Venus caused there to fall a deep sleep, and carried him to the woods
of Idalium, and lapped him in sweet-smelling flowers. And in his stead Love carried the gifts
to the queen. And when he was come they sat down to the feast, the queen being in the midst
under a canopy. Æneas also and the men of Troy lay on coverlets of purple, to whom serving-men
brought water and bread in baskets and napkins; and within fifty handmaids were ready to replenish
the store of victual and to fan the fire; and a hundred others, with pages as many, loaded
the tables with dishes and drinking-cups. Many men of Tyre also were bidden to the feast. Much
they marveled at the gifts of Æneas, and much at the false Ascanius. Dido also could not satisfy
herself with looking on him, nor knew what trouble he was preparing for her in the time to
come. And he, having first embraced the father who was not his father, and clung about his
neck, addressed himself to Queen Dido, and she ever followed him with her eyes, and sometimes
would hold him on her lap. And still he worked upon her that she should forget the dead Sichæus
and conceive a new love in her heart.

But when they first paused from the feast, lo! men set great bowls upon the table and filled
them to the brim with wine. Then did the queen call for a great vessel of gold, with many jewels
upon it, from which Belus, and all the kings from Belus, had drunk, and called for wine, and
having filled it she cried, "O Jupiter, whom they call the god of hosts and guests, cause that
this be a day of joy for the men of Troy and for them of Tyre, and that our children remember
it forever. Also Bacchus, giver of joy, be present, and kindly Juno." And when she had touched
the wine with her lips, she handed the great cup to Prince Bitias, who drank thereout a mighty
draught, and the other princes after him. Then the minstrel Iopas, whom Atlas himself had taught,
sang to the harp, of the moon, how she goes on her way, and of the sun, how his light is darkened.
He sang also of men, and of the beasts of the field, whence they come; and of the stars, Arcturus,
and the Greater Bear and the Less, and the Hyades; and of the winter sun, why he hastens to
dip himself in the ocean; and of the winter nights, why they tarry so long. The queen also
talked much of the story of Troy, of Priam, and of Hector, asking many things, as of the arms
of Memnon, and of the horses of Diomed, and of Achilles, how great he was. And at last she
said to Æneas, "Tell us now thy story, how Troy was taken, and thy wanderings over land and
sea." And Æneas made answer, "Nay, O Queen, but thou biddest me renew a sorrow unspeakable.
Yet, if thou art minded to hear these things, hearken." And he told her all that had befallen
him, even to the day when his father Anchises died.

Much was Queen Dido moved by the story, and much did she marvel at him that told it, and scarce
could sleep for thinking of him. And the next day she spake to Anna, her sister, "O my sister,
I have been troubled this night with ill dreams, and my heart is disquieted within me. What
a man is this stranger that hath come to our shores! How noble of mien! How bold in war! Sure
I am that he is of the sons of the Gods. What fortunes have been his! Of what wars he told
us! Surely were I not steadfastly purposed that I would not yoke me again in marriage, this
were the man to whom I might yield. Only he--for I will tell thee the truth, my sister--only
he, since the day when Sichæus died by our brother's hand, hath moved my heart. But may the
earth swallow me up, or the almighty Father strike me with lightning, ere I stoop to such baseness.
The husband of my youth hath carried with him my love, and he shall keep it in his grave."

So she spake, with many tears. And her sister made answer, "Why wilt thou waste thy youth in
sorrow, without child or husband? Thinkest thou that there is care or remembrance of such things
in the grave? No suitors indeed have pleased thee here or in Tyre, but wilt thou also contend
with a love that is after thine own heart? Think too of the nations among whom thou dwellest,
how fierce they are, and of thy brother at Tyre, what he threatens against thee. Surely it
was by the will of the Gods, and of Juno chiefly, that the ships of Troy came hither. And this
city, which thou buildest, to what greatness will it grow if only thou wilt make for thyself
such alliance! How great will be the glory of Carthage if the strength of Troy be joined unto
her! Only do thou pray to the Gods and offer sacrifices; and, for the present, seeing that
the time of sailing is now past, make excuse that these strangers tarry with thee awhile."

Thus did Anna comfort her sister and encourage her. And first the two offered sacrifice to
the Gods, chiefly to Juno, who careth for the bond of marriage. Also, examining the entrails
of slain beasts, they sought to learn the things that should happen thereafter. And ever Dido
would company with Æneas, leading him about the walls of the city which she builded. And often
she would begin to speak and stay in the midst of her words. And when even was come, she would
hear again and again at the banquet the tale of Troy, and while others slept would watch, and
while he was far away would seem to see him and to hear him. Ascanius, too, she would embrace
for love of his father, if so she might cheat her own heart. But the work of the city was stayed
meanwhile; nor did the towers rise in their places, nor the youth practice themselves in arms.

Then Juno, seeing how it fared with the queen, spake to Venus: "Are ye satisfied with your
victory, thou and thy son, that ye have vanquished, the two of you, one woman? Well I knew
that thou fearedst lest this Carthage should harm thy favorite. But why should there be war
between us? Thou hast what thou seekest. Let us make alliance. Let Dido obey a Phrygian husband,
and bring the men of Tyre as her dowry."

But Venus knew that she spake with ill intent, to the end that the men of Troy should not reign
in the land of Italy. Nevertheless she dissembled with her tongue, and spake: "Who would not
rather have peace with thee than war? Only I doubt whether this thing shall be to the pleasure
of Jupiter. This thou must learn, seeing that thou art his wife, and where thou leadest I will
follow."

So the two, taking counsel together, ordered things in this wise. The next day a great hunting
was prepared. For as soon as ever the sun was risen upon the earth, the youth of the city assembled,
with nets and hunting spears and dogs that ran by scent. And the princes of Carthage waited
for the queen at the palace door, where her horse stood champing the bit, with trappings of
purple and gold. And after a while she came forth, with many following her. And she had upon
her a Sidonian mantle, with a border wrought with divers colors; of gold was her quiver, and
of gold the knot of her hair, and of gold the clasp to her mantle. Æneas likewise came forth,
beautiful as is Apollo when he leaveth Lydia and the stream of Xanthus, coming to Delos, and
hath about his hair a wreath of bay-leaves and a circlet of gold. So fair was Æneas to see.
And when the hunters came to the hills they found great store of goats and stags, which they
chased. And of all the company Ascanius was the foremost, thinking scorn of such hunting, and
wishing that a wild boar or a lion out of the hills would come forth to be his prey.

And now befell a great storm, with much thunder and hail, from which the hunters sought shelter.
But Æneas and the queen, being left of all their company, came together to the same cave. And
there they plighted their troth one to the other. Nor did the queen after that make secret
of her love, but called Æneas her husband.

Straightway went Rumor and told these things through the cities of Libya. Now Rumor, men say,
is the youngest daughter of Earth, a marvelous creature, moving very swiftly with feet and
wings, and having many feathers upon her, and under every feather an eye and a tongue and a
mouth and an ear. In the night she flieth between heaven and earth, and sleepeth not; and in
the day she sitteth on some housetop or lofty tower, or spreadeth fear over mighty cities;
and she loveth that which is false even as she loveth that which is true. So now she went telling
through Libya how Æneas of Troy was come, and Dido was wedded to him, and how they lived careless
and at ease, and thinking not of the work to which they were called.

And first of all she went to Prince Iarbas, who himself had sought Dido in marriage. And Iarbas
was very wroth when he heard it, and, coming to the temple of Jupiter, spread his grief before
the Gods, how that he had given a place on his coasts to this Dido, and would have taken her
to wife, but that she had married a stranger from Phrygia, another Paris, whose dress and adornments
were of a woman rather than of a man.

And Jupiter saw that this was so, and he said to Mercury, who was his messenger, "Go speak
to Æneas these words: 'Thus saith the king of Gods and men. Is this what thy mother promised
of thee, twice saving thee from the spear of the Greeks? Art thou he that shall rule Italy
and its mighty men of war, and spread thy dominion to the ends of the world? If thou thyself
forgettest these things, dost thou grudge to thy son the citadels of Rome? What doest thou
here? Why lookest thou not to Italy? Depart and tarry not.'"

Then Mercury fitted the winged sandals to his feet, and took the wand with which he driveth
the spirits of the dead, and came right soon to Mount Atlas, which standeth bearing the heaven
on his head, and having always clouds about his top, and snow upon his shoulders, and a beard
that is stiff with ice. There Mercury stood awhile; then, as a bird which seeks its prey in
the sea, shot headlong down, and came to Æneas where he stood, with a yellow jasper in his
sword-hilt, and a cloak of purple shot with gold about his shoulders, and spake: "Buildest
thou Carthage, forgetting thine own work? The Almighty Father saith to thee, 'What meanest
thou? Why tarriest thou here? If thou carest not for thyself, yet think of thy son, and that
the Fates have given to him Italy and Rome.'"

And Æneas saw him no more. And he stood stricken with fear and doubt. Fain would he obey the
voice, and go as the Gods commanded. But how should he tell this purpose to the queen? But
at the last it seemed good to him to call certain of the chiefs, as Mnestheus, and Sergestus,
and Antheus, and bid them make ready the ships in silence, and gather together the people,
but dissemble the cause, and he himself would watch a fitting time to speak and unfold the
matter to the queen.

Yet was not Dido deceived, for love is keen of sight. Rumor also told her that they made ready
the ships for sailing. Then, flying through the city, even as one on whom has come the frenzy
of Bacchus flies by night over Mount Cithæron, she came upon Æneas, and spake: "Thoughtest
thou to hide thy crime, and to depart in silence from this land? Carest thou not for her whom
thou leavest to die? And hast thou no fear of winter storms that vex the sea? By all that I
have done for thee and given thee, if there be yet any place for repentance, repent thee of
this purpose. For thy sake I suffer the wrath of the princes of Libya and of my own people;
and if thou leavest me, for what should I live?--till my brother overthrow my city, or Iarbas
carry me away captive? If but I had a little Æneas to play in my halls I should not seem so
altogether desolate."

But Æneas, fearing the words of Jupiter, stood with eyes that relented not. At the last he
spake: "I deny not, O Queen, the benefits that thou hast done unto me, nor ever, while I live,
shall I forget Dido. I sought not to fly by stealth; yet did I never promise that I would abide
in this place. Could I have chosen according to my will I had built again the city of Troy
where it stood; but the Gods command that I should seek Italy. Thou hast thy Carthage; why
dost thou grudge Italy to us? Nor may I tarry. Night after night have I seen my father Anchises
warning me in dreams. Also even now the messenger of Jupiter came to me--with these ears I
heard him--and bade me depart."

Then, in great wrath, with eyes askance, did Dido break forth upon him: "Surely no goddess
was thy mother, nor art thou come of the race of Dardanus. The rocks of Caucasus brought thee
forth, and an Hyrcanian tigress gave thee suck. For why should I dissemble? Was he moved at
all my tears? Did he pity my love? Nay, the very Gods are against me. This man I took to myself
when he was shipwrecked and ready to perish. I brought back his ships, his companions from
destruction. And now forsooth comes the messenger of Jupiter with dreadful commands from the
Gods. As for thee, I keep thee not. Go, seek thy Italy across the seas: only, if there is any
vengeance in heaven, thou wilt pay the penalty for this wrong, being wrecked on some rock in
their midst. Then wilt thou call on Dido in vain. Aye, and where-ever thou shalt go I will
haunt thee, and rejoice in the dwellings below to hear thy doom."

Then she turned, and hasted to go into the house. But her spirit left her, so that her maidens
bare her to her chamber and laid her on her bed.

Then Æneas, though indeed he was much troubled in heart, and would fain have comforted the
queen, was obedient to the heavenly word, and departed to his ships. And the men of Troy busied
themselves in making them ready for the voyage. Even as the ants spoil a great heap of corn
and store it in their dwellings against winter, moving in a black line across the field, and
some carry the great grains, and some chide those that linger, even so did the Trojans swarm
along the ways and labor at the work.

But when Dido saw it she called to Anna her sister and said, "Seest thou how they hasten the
work along the shore? Even now the sails are ready for the winds, and the sailors have wreathed
the ships with garlands, as if for departure. Go thou--the deceiver always trusted thee, and
thou knowest how best to move him--go and entreat him. I harmed not him nor his people; let
him then grant me this only. Let him wait for a fairer time for his journey. I ask not that
he give up his purpose; only that he grant me a short breathing space, till I may learn how
to bear this sorrow."

And Anna hearkened to her sister, and took the message to Æneas, yet profited nothing, for
the Gods shut his ears that he should not hear. Even as the oak stands firm when the north
wind would root it up from the earth,--its leaves are scattered all around, yet doth it remain
firm, for its roots go down to the regions below, even as far as its branches reach to heaven,--so
stood Æneas firm, and, though he wept many tears, changed not his purpose.

Then did Dido grow weary of her life. For when she did sacrifice, the pure water would grow
black and the wine be changed to blood. Also from the shrine of her husband, which was in the
midst of her palace, was heard a voice calling her, and the owl cried aloud from the house-top.
And in her dreams the cruel Æneas seemed to drive her before him; or she seemed to be going
a long way with none to bear her company, and be seeking her own people in a land that was
desert. Therefore, hiding the thing that was in her heart, she spake to her sister, saying,
"I have found a way, my sister, that shall bring him back to me or set me free from him. Near
the shore of the Great Sea, where the Æthiopians dwell, is a priestess, who guards the temple
of the daughters of Hesperus, being wont to feed the dragons that kept the apples of gold.
She is able by her charms to loose the heart from care or to bind it, and to stay rivers also,
and to turn the courses of the stars, and to call up the spirits of the dead. Do thou, therefore--for
this is what the priestess commands--build a pile in the open court, and put thereon the sword
which he left hanging in our chamber, and the garments he wore, and the couch on which he lay,
even all that was his, so that they may perish together."

And when these things were done--for Anna knew not of her purpose--and also an image of Æneas
was laid upon the pile, the priestess, with her hair unbound, called upon all the gods that
dwell below, sprinkling thereon water that was drawn, she said, from the lake of Avernus, and
scattering evil herbs that had been cut at the full moon with a sickle of bronze. Dido also,
with one foot bare and her garments loosened, threw meal upon the fire and called upon the
gods, if haply there be any, that look upon those that love and suffer wrong.

In the mean time Æneas lay asleep in the hind part of his ship, when there appeared to him
in a dream the god Mercury, even as he had seen him when he brought the commandment of Jupiter.
And Mercury spake, saying, "Son of Venus, canst thou sleep? seest thou not what perils surround
thee, nor hearest how the favorable west wind calls? The queen purposes evil against thee.
If thou lingerest till the morning come thou wilt see the shore covered with them that wish
thee harm. Fly, then, and tarry not; for a woman is ever of many minds."

Then did Æneas in great fear start from his sleep, and call his companions, saying, "Wake,
and sit on the benches, and loose the sails. 'Tis a god thus bids us fly." And even as he spake
he cut the cable with his sword. And all hasted to follow him, and sped over the sea.

And now it was morning, and Queen Dido, from her watch-tower, saw the ships upon the sea. Then
she smote upon her breast and tore her hair, and cried, "Shall this stranger mock us thus?
Hasten to follow him. Bring down the ships from the docks, make ready sword and fire. And this
was the man who bare upon his shoulders his aged father. Why did I not tear him to pieces,
and slay his companions with the sword, and serve up the young Ascanius at his meal? And if
I had perished, what then? for I die to-day. O Sun, that regardest all the earth, and Juno,
that carest for marriage bonds, and Hecate, Queen of the dead, and ye Furies that take vengeance
on evil-doers, hear me. If it be ordered that he reach that land, yet grant that he suffer
many things from his enemies, and be driven from his city, and beg for help from strangers,
and see his people cruelly slain with the sword; and, when he shall have made peace on ill
conditions, that he enjoy not long his kingdoms, but die before his day, and lie unburied on
the plain. And ye, men of Tyre, hate his children and his people forever. Let there be no love
or peace between you. And may some avenger arise from my grave who shall persecute the race
of Dardanus with fire and sword. So shall there be war forever between him and me."

Then she spake to old Barce, who had been nurse to her husband Sichæus, "Bid my sister bathe
herself in water, and bring with her beasts for sacrifice. And do thou also put a garland about
thy head, for I am minded to finish this sacrifice which I have begun, and to burn the image
of the man of Troy."

And when the old woman made haste to do her bidding, Queen Dido ran to the court where the
pile was made for the burning, and mounted on the pile, and drew the sword of Æneas from the
scabbard. Then did she throw herself upon the bed, and cry,

"Now do I yield up my life. I have finished my course. I have built a mighty city. I have avenged
my husband on him that slew him. Happy had I been, yea, too happy! had the ships of Troy never
come to this land." Then she kissed the bed and cried, "Shall I die unavenged? Nevertheless
let me die. The man of Troy shall see this fire from the sea whereon he journeys, and carry
with him an augury of death."

And when her maidens looked, lo! she had fallen upon the sword, and the blood was upon her
hands. And a great cry went up through the palace, exceeding loud and bitter, even as if the
enemy had taken Carthage or ancient Tyre, and the fire were mounting over the dwellings of
men and of Gods. And Anna her sister heard it, and rushing through the midst called her by
name: "O my sister, was this thy purpose? Were the pile and the sword and the fire for this?
Why wouldst thou not suffer that I should die with thee? For surely, my sister, thou hast slain
thyself, and me, and thy people, and thy city. But give me water, ye maidens, that I may wash
her wounds, and if there be any breath left in her, we may yet stay it."

Then she climbed on to the pile, and caught her sister in her arms, and sought to staunch the
blood with her garments. Three times did Dido strive to raise her eyes; three times did her
spirit leave her. Three times she would have raised herself upon her elbow; three times she
fell back upon the bed, looking with wandering eyes for the light, and groaning that she yet
beheld it.

Then Juno, looking down from heaven, saw that her pain was long, and pitied her, and sent down
Iris, her messenger, that she might loose the soul that struggled to be free. For, seeing that
she died not by nature, nor yet by the hand of man, but before her time and of her own madness,
Queen Proserpine had not shred the ringlet from her head which she shreds from them that die.
Wherefore Iris, flying down with dewy wings from heaven, with a thousand colors about her from
the light of the sun, stood about her head and said, "I give thee to death, even as I am bidden,
and loose thee from thy body." Then she shred the lock, and Queen Dido gave up the ghost.

THE FUNERAL GAMES OF ANCHISES

By Charles Henry Hanson

Æneas called together all his followers, and reminded minded them that a year had now passed
since the death of his father. Not of their own purpose, but doubtless by the will of the Gods,
they had now returned to the friendly land where his bones had been laid. It was therefore
his intention to celebrate funeral games. For eight days there should be feasting, for which
Acestes had generously provided two oxen for each ship; and on the ninth day he would give
prizes to be contested in the foot-race, in shooting with the bow, and in boxing with the cestus.

Having thus spoken, the hero, according to the custom of that time, placed a wreath of myrtle
upon his head and proceeded to the tomb of his father, where he poured out, as a libation to
the Gods, two bowls of wine, two of new milk, and two of sacred blood. Then he scattered flowers
over the tomb, and offered up a prayer to his father's shade. Immediately there came forth
from the tomb a huge snake with glittering scales of blue and gold, which, after tasting of
what had been poured out, retired again to the recesses of the vault. Believing this creature
to be an attendant on his father's spirit, Æneas offered rich sacrifices--ewes, sows, and bullocks--and
his companions followed his example. The eight days of feasting passed pleasantly enough, and
the morning appointed for the funeral games dawned bright and serene. A joyous crowd assembled
on the shore, some to take part in the contests, and others to watch them. The first of the
games was a race between galleys, and four ships had been entered to take part in it. The first
was the Pristis, or Shark, of which Mnestheus was the captain. The Chimera, a vessel of immense
size, was commanded by Gyas. The other vessels were the Centaur and the Scylla,--the first
commanded by Sergestus, and the second by Cloanthus. Some way out in the sea, opposite to the
starting-point, a rock rose amid the restless waters. The galleys were to round this rock,
on which Æneas had planted an oak-tree as a mark, and then return to the shore. The vessels
were assigned their places by lot, and the captain of each took his place on the poop; while
the rowers, stripped to the waist, their shoulders glistening with oil, sat with their arms
stretched to the oars, eager for the signal. At the blast of a trumpet all the oars struck
the sea at once, and beat it into foam, and the vessels shot forward amid the loud shouts of
the multitude. The Chimera, under Gyas's skillful guidance, took the lead; next followed the
Scylla, whose rowers were more efficient, but were unable to make such progress, because the
vessel was naturally slower. Behind the Shark and the Centaur followed close together, and
first the one and then the other gained a slight advantage. The two leading vessels were rapidly
nearing the rock when Gyas perceived that his helmsman, Menoetes, was keeping a course too
far to the right, in fear of some hidden crags, and was thus losing the advantage that had
been gained. He urged him to steer more to the left, nor to care even if the oars grazed the
rock; but Menoetes was afraid to obey the command. And now Cloanthus in the Scylla, taking
the very course Gyas had wished to follow, ran boldly between the Chimera and the rock, and
so got round the goal in front of his antagonist. When Gyas beheld this he was full of wrath.
Rushing to the helm, he seized the over-cautious Menoetes and hurled him into the sea; then
he himself took the helm, and at once guided his ship and issued commands and cries of encouragement
to his oarsmen. The luckless Menoetes with difficulty contrived to scramble out of the sea
onto the rock, and sat there in his dripping garments, while the spectators roared with laughter
at his misadventure. But now Mnestheus in the Shark and Sergestus in the Centaur pushed forward
with redoubled zeal in the hope of obtaining the lead. Sergestus got a little in front of his
competitor, but Mnestheus, walking among his rowers, urged them to put forth their utmost strength,
and at least not to suffer the disgrace of being last. In response to his appeal they bent
to the oar with new vigor; the ship trembled under their strokes and the water seemed to fly
from beneath her keel. Suddenly, while the Centaur, in full career, was pressing close to the
rock to prevent the Shark from passing on the inner side, she ran upon a jutting point where
she remained fast, while the oars were shattered against the hard rocks. In a moment the Shark
shot past, and having rounded the goal, dashed on the homeward way. Ere long Mnestheus had
overtaken the Chimera, which had lost ground because she was deprived of her steersman. Cloanthus
in the Scylla was now alone in front of the Shark; and though the race was nearly over, the
frantic efforts of Mnestheus' crew might have gained him the victory, but that Cloanthus poured
forth passionate prayers to the marine deities, and promised them ample offerings if the first
prize became his. They heard his vows, and gathering underneath his vessel, pushed it forward,
so that it entered the harbor just in front of the Shark. Then Æneas proclaimed Cloanthus the
victor, and gave him a mantle embroidered with gold and ornamented with a thick fringe of the
costly Meliboean purple. On Mnestheus, who had so gallantly gained the second place, he bestowed
a ponderous coat of mail worked in gold and brass, which he had himself taken from a famous
Greek warrior, Demoleus, whom he had slain before Troy. Gyas received two caldrons of brass,
and some silver bowls ornamented with rich carvings. Lastly, when Sergestus had slowly brought
back to port his crippled galley, his chief bestowed on him, in reward for having rescued the
vessel from her perilous position, a Cretan female slave with her two children.

Thus ended the galley race; and the assembled multitude now proceeded to a grassy plain a little
way inland, where thrones were placed for Acestes, Æneas, and the other leaders. Here the remaining
games were to be celebrated, and first of all a foot race. Among the competitors in this were
Euryalus, a Trojan youth distinguished for his personal beauty; Nisus, a brave warrior, who
was his constant friend and companion; Diores, Salius, and Patron, three other Trojans; and
two Sicilian youths famous for their speed, named Elymus and Panopes. Æneas announced that
he would give two Cretan javelins of bright steel and a carved battle-axe of silver to each
who took part in the race, and to the three who came in first other rich prizes: to the first
a war-horse with costly trappings; to the second a quiver full of Thracian arrows, with a gold
belt and jeweled buckle; and to the third a Grecian helmet. The runners having been placed
in proper order, the signal was given, and they darted forward like a tempest. Nisus led the
way, Salius coming second, and Euryalus third, with the rest following close behind. Already
Nisus was near the goal, when unluckily his foot slipped at a spot where some victims had been
sacrificed for the altar, and the blood soaking into the grass had made it slippery. Down he
fell into the puddle, and in a moment his chance of victory had disappeared. But even then,
in spite of his disappointment, he was mindful of his affection for Euryalus, and resolved
that since he could not win the race, his friend should do so. He rose to his feet just as
Salius was coming up, and contrived to stand in his way so as to overturn him. Euryalus, who
had still kept the third place, now sprang forward, and was easily victorious amid the applause
of the crowd. Elymus came in next, and close behind him Diores. But Salius loudly demanded
that the first prize of right belonged to him, because he had been deprived of the victory
by unfair means. The spectators, however, favored the claim of Euryalus because of his youth
and beauty; and Diores vehemently took the same side, since, if Salius were adjudged the victory,
he would not receive a prize at all. Æneas speedily silenced all contention by declaring that
the promised rewards should go to the three who had arrived first at the winning-post; but
he added that he would show his sympathy for the disaster which had befallen Salius, and therefore
bestowed on him the shaggy hide of a Getulian lion, still retaining the claws, which had been
gilt. Upon this, Nisus also merrily asked for some consolation, since but for an accident the
first prize would have been his, and he showed his face and limbs all besmeared with mud. His
chief entered into the jest, and gave him a buckler, finely carved, which had once hung on
the walls of Neptune's temple at Troy.

The next contest was that with the cestus, the boxing-glove of the ancients, a formidable implement,
intended not to soften the blows dealt by the boxers, but to make them more painful, for it
was composed of strips of hardened oxhide. To the competitors in this sport--if such it could
be called--Æneas offered two prizes,--the first a bullock, decked with gold and fillets, and
the second a sword and a shining helmet. A noted Trojan warrior named Dares, a man of immense
strength and bulk, who was also celebrated for his skill with the cestus, presented himself
to contest this prize. He brandished his huge fists in the air, and paced vaingloriously backward
and forward in the arena, challenging any one in the assembly to meet him. But there was no
response; his friends were too well acquainted with his skill, and the Sicilians were awed
by his formidable appearance. At last, therefore, imagining that nobody would venture to encounter
him, he advanced to Æneas and asked that the prize might be given up to him. It seemed, indeed,
that this would have to be done, when King Acestes turned to one of his elders, a venerable
Sicilian chief named Entellus, and asked how it was that he thus allowed such splendid prizes
to be taken before his eyes without striking a blow for them. Entellus had, in his younger
days, been a great champion with the cestus, having been taught the use of the weapon by none
other than Eryx, at that time king of Sicily, and one of the most expert boxers in the world.
So confident had Eryx been in his powers, that when the mighty Hercules passed through Sicily
on his way from Spain, where he had slain King Geryon and carried off his splendid cattle,
the Sicilian monarch ventured to challenge the hero to a combat with the cestus, staking his
kingdom against the cattle which Hercules was bearing away to Greece. Hercules had accepted
the challenge, and had slain Eryx in the encounter; but the tradition of his skill had been
preserved by his pupil Entellus. The chief was now old, and disinclined for exertion; but when
thus urged by King Acestes, he slowly rose and threw into the arena the gauntlets which King
Eryx had been accustomed to use. Terrible weapons indeed they-were, with heavy pieces of iron
and lead sewn into them underneath the oxhide. At the mere sight of them Dares shrank back
appalled, and refused to fight with such implements. "These," said Entellus, "were the gauntlets
with which my master Eryx encountered Hercules; and these, after his death, I myself was accustomed
to use. But if Dares likes not such gloves, let Æneas provide others for both of us." With
these words he threw off his upper garments and bared his massive shoulders and sinewy arms.
The Trojan chief brought out two pairs of gauntlets of less formidable make, with which the
two champions armed themselves; and then they stood face to face, and both raised their arms
for the encounter. For some time they stood parrying each other's blows and watching for an
opportunity. Presently, as they grew warmer, many heavy strokes were given on each side, now
on the head, now on the breast. Entellus stood stiff and unmoved in the same firm posture,
only bending to evade Dares's blows, and always closely watching his antagonist, who, more
active, wheeled round him, trying first one method of attack, then another. At last Entellus
uplifted his right arm, thinking he saw an opportunity for delivering a decisive stroke; but
Dares with great agility slipped out of the way, and as the arm of Entellus encountered no
resistance save from the empty air, he fell forward on the ground through the violence of his
own effort. Acclamations burst from all the onlookers, and Acestes himself stepped forward
to assist his old companion to his feet. But the mishap had only aroused Entellus's anger;
he no longer acted on the defensive, but rushed upon his opponent with irresistible ardor,
and smote blow after blow, driving Dares headlong over the field, pouring down strokes as incessantly
as a shower of hail rattles upon the house-tops. Æneas now deemed it high time to put a stop
to the combat, and called upon Dares, who indeed was quite overpowered, to yield. His comrades
led the beaten champion to the ships, with the blood flowing from his battered head and face,
and on his behalf they took away the helmet and sword, leaving the bull to the conqueror. Entellus,
proud of his victory, laid hold of the animal, and exclaimed, "Behold, O chief, and you Trojans,
from this what my strength once was, and also from what death you have saved Dares." With these
words he smote the bull on the forehead with the cestus so mightily that the skull was battered
in and the brute sank dead at his feet.

After this exciting competition came a more peaceful sport,--a trial of skill with the bow.
A mast was planted on a sward, and to the top of it a living dove was secured by a cord. This
was the mark, and four archers came forward to contend for the prizes,--Hippocoön, the brother
of Nisus and one of Æneas's dearest friends; Mnestheus, the winner of the second prize in the
galley race; Eurytion, a brother of that Pandarus who was one of the most skillful archers
that fought in the Trojan war, and who, after wounding Menelaus, was slain by Diomedes; and
lastly, King Acestes himself. Hippocoön shot first, and his arrow, whizzing past the fluttering
dove, pierced the pole to which she was fastened. This, though it did not hit the mark, was
an excellent shot, and it won loud applause from the spectators. Mnestheus next discharged
his dart, taking a long and steady aim; but his arrow, instead of striking the bird, cut in
two the cord by which she was fastened, and, spreading her wings, the dove at once flew away.
Instantly, however, Eurytion raised his bow, and shot with so true an aim that he struck the
bird even in mid-flight, and brought her lifeless to the earth. There was thus no longer a
mark at which Acestes could aim; but notwithstanding he drew his bow and discharged a shaft
high into the air. And now a strange prodigy happened; for the arrow, soaring upward, took
fire as it flew, and marked out a path of flame, till, being quite consumed, it vanished into
the air. This spectacle naturally excited the wonder and reverence of the assembled multitude;
and Æneas, embracing Acestes, declared that the incident was an omen from the Gods awarding
to him the first prize. He therefore bestowed on him a splendid bowl, embossed with figures,
which had once belonged to Anchises, nor did the other competitors dispute the justice of the
decision.

But the games were not yet ended. The Trojan chief had prepared a closing spectacle as a surprise
for the spectators. He sent a messenger to summon Ascanius, and in the mean time ordered a
large space of ground to be cleared. Then suddenly his son entered on horseback at the head
of a numerous company,--all the youths of the expedition. They were attired alike, with garlands
on their heads and circles of gold about their necks; and each carried two spears of cornel-wood,
tipped with steel. The young equestrians were divided into three companies; one was commanded
by Ascanius himself, mounted on a beautiful Sidonian steed which had been given him by Queen
Dido; a second by the youthful Priam, a son of that Polites whom Pyrrhus slew at the fall of
Troy; and the third by Atys, a boy who was Ascanius' especial friend and companion. They went
through a series of evolutions, now advancing in line, again forming in different bands and
pretending to charge one another, and afterwards going through many other intricate manoeuvres.
The scene was a most picturesque one, and gave great pleasure to those who witnessed it.

ÆNEAS'S VISIT TO THE LOWER WORLD

By Charles Henry Hanson

Continuing his voyage, Æneas reached the shore of the country afterwards named Campania, the
modern province of Naples. Here the ships were carefully moored, and the crews disembarked.
Some busied themselves in kindling fires and preparing a meal; others explored the country
in search of game. Æneas, however, hastened at once to seek the temple of Apollo and the adjoining
cave of the Cumæan Sibyl,--the most famous of all the oracles of antiquity. The temple and
cave were situated in a thick wood, closely adjoining the gloomy lake of Avernus, a black pool
of unknown depth, hedged in by precipitous cliffs, and emitting gases so poisonous that no
bird was able to fly over it in safety. In the rocks at one side of the lake there yawned a
sombre cavern, which was believed in those days to be the entrance to the kingdom of Pluto--the
abode of the dead.

Æneas was surveying the temple,--an edifice of great splendor, adorned with pictures wrought
in metal by the cunning hand of Dædalus,--when Achates, whom he had sent before him to the
Sibyl's cave, approached, conducting the priestess. "O prince," she said, "this is not the
time for admiring the works of men. It will be more fitting for you to propitiate the god with
sacrifices, so that he may inspire me." With this mandate the hero at once complied, and then
the Sibyl summoned him and his followers to the entrance of her cave,--a vast apartment carved
out of the living rock, whence issued a hundred corridors. Scarcely had the Trojans approached
the threshold when the virgin exclaimed, "Now is the time to consult your fate! The god! lo,
the god!" As she cried out thus her looks suddenly changed, her color came and went, her hair
fell in disorder over her shoulders, her bosom heaved, and she was shaken by an uncontrollable
passion. Her very form seemed to dilate, and the tone of her voice was no longer that of a
mere mortal, since she was inspired by the influence of the god. "Trojan Æneas!" she exclaimed,
"delay no longer to offer thy prayers for the knowledge which thou seekest; for not till then
can I reveal to thee the secrets of the future."

Earnestly did Æneas implore pity and aid from Apollo; and of the Sibyl he entreated that she
should proclaim her revelations by word of mouth, and not, as was her custom, write them on
leaves of trees, lest they should become the sport of the winds. At first the prophetess did
not answer; she was not yet fully possessed by the spirit of the god, and raved in wild ecstasy
in the cave, struggling, as it were, to resist the will of Phoebus, who, on his part, wearied
her foaming lips, subdued her fierce heart, and moulded her to his will. Then all at once the
hundred doors of the cavern flew open of their own accord, and the Sibyl proclaimed the divine
response,--

"O thou who hast at length overpassed the perils of the ocean, yet more terrible trials await
thee on shore. Thou and thy Trojans shall indeed reach the promised land--that is assured;
but ye shall wish that ye had never come thither. Wars, horrid wars, I foresee, and Tiber foaming
with a deluge of blood. Another Achilles awaits thee in Latium--he also the son of a goddess.
Nor shall the persecutions of Juno cease to follow the Trojans wherever they may be; and in
your distress you will humbly supplicate all the surrounding Italian states for aid. Once more
shall a marriage with a foreign wife be a source of affliction to you. But yield not under
your sufferings; encounter them resolutely in the teeth of adverse fortune, and when you least
expect it, the means of deliverance shall come to you from a Greek city."

So, under the inspiration of Apollo, spoke the Sibyl. When she had ceased, Æneas answered that
no prospect of further trials could appall him, for he was prepared to endure the worst that
could befall. But he now entreated, since it was said that the entrance to the shades was near,
that the Sibyl should conduct him into those dark regions, in order that he might obtain an
interview with the spectre of his father. It was Anchises' self, he added, who had bidden him
make this request; and filial devotion would enable him to perform a task which Orpheus had
achieved out of love for his wife Eurydice, and Pollux through his attachment to his brother
Castor.

"Æneas," replied the priestess, "easy is the descent into Hades: grim Pluto's gate stands open
night and day, but to retrace your steps and escape to the upper regions will be a difficult
task indeed, and one which few have hitherto been able to accomplish. If, however, you are
fixed in the resolve to pursue so desperate an enterprise, learn what first is to be done.
There is in the dark woods which surround the Lake of Avernus a certain tree, dense of foliage,
on which grows a single bough of gold, with leaves and twigs of the same precious metal, and
no living mortal can enter Hades unless he has first found and plucked this bough, which is
demanded by Proserpine, the consort of Pluto and queen of the infernal realms, as her peculiar
tribute. When the bough is torn off, another always grows in its place. Therefore search for
it diligently, and when you have discovered it grasp it with your hand. If the Fates are propitious
to your enterprise, you will be able to pluck it easily; if otherwise, your whole strength
could not tear it from the tree, nor could you ever sever it with your sword. In the mean time
the body of one of your friends lies lifeless, and demands the funeral rites. First bury him
with proper ceremonies, and then return to me with black cattle for the sacrifices; and then
you shall be able to visit the realms of Hades, to which most living men are denied an entrance."

With sorrowful thoughts Æneas, closely followed by Achates, now withdrew from the shrine, and
took the way to the shore. Both were greatly perplexed to know what was the corpse needing
burial of which the Sibyl had spoken. But while they were wondering they came to the beach,
and there, before them, they saw lying the body of Misenus, who had come to a lamentable end.
Misenus was the most skilled among all the Trojans in the art of blowing the trumpet. He had
been, besides, a famous warrior, and during the siege of Troy was accustomed to be the companion
of Hector in the field, and to fight by his side. When Hector fell, he attached himself to
Æneas, scorning to follow any less illustrious chief, and so had formed one of the band which
the hero was conducting to Latium. But he was inordinately vain of his skill with the trumpet,
and believed himself superior even to the Tritons, the sea-deities whose especial province
it was to lull the seas at the command of Neptune by blowing upon instruments made of shells.
These Tritons Misenus had challenged to a trial of skill, and by way of defiance had blown
so loud a note that the deities were afraid to respond to his challenge; but being full of
jealousy, they had now contrived to lure him into the sea and drown him. The discovery of his
lifeless body filled all his comrades with sadness. They gathered about him with loud lamentations,
and then prepared to erect his funeral pyre, hastening with axes into the thick surrounding
woods, and cutting down huge oaks and pines and ash-trees.

Æneas himself led the way in the performance of this task, and while he was engaged in it he
could not help exclaiming, as his glance surveyed the wide forest, "Would that I could now
perceive the golden bough which I must find before entering Hades; for in this ample forest,
how can I begin to search for it?" Scarcely had he spoken when two pigeons suddenly swooped
down from the upper air and alighted at his feet. He guessed at once that these doves, his
mother's favorite birds, had been sent for his guidance, and he entreated them to conduct him
to the place where the precious bough was growing. The doves, feeding and flying by turns,
advanced through the wood at such a speed that Æneas could easily keep them in sight, and presently,
having reached the very edge of Lake Avernus, both rose at once into the air, and settled on
a great tree of very dense foliage. The hero hastened to the spot, and there indeed, on one
of the lower limbs of the tree, gleamed the bough, the rich yellow lustre of its leaves and
twigs contrasting vividly with the deep green of the surrounding foliage. Æneas with delight
grasped it, and plucked it from its place, and, bearing it carefully in his hand, hastened
to rejoin his companions.

They, in the mean time, had reared on the shore a vast pile of logs of pine and oak, the sides
of which they had interlaced with smaller boughs. After having carefully washed and purified
the body of Misenus, they first made a couch upon the pyre, with the apparel of the dead man,
and then, with renewed cries of grief, placed the body upon it. His arms, too, they laid beside
him, and having poured incense and oil abundantly upon the pile, they set it on fire. When
only smouldering embers were left, these were quenched with wine, and the ashes of the dead
were carefully collected and placed in a brazen urn. This urn was afterwards deposited in a
lofty tomb which Æneas erected on a promontory that henceforth bore the name of Misenus.

The funeral ceremonies having thus duly been performed, the hero proceeded to the cave of the
Sibyl, and called upon her to fulfill her promise, and accompany him to the kingdom of the
dead. She led him to the mouth of the black cavern at the side of Lake Avernus, and there offered
up sacrifices of black cattle and sheep, uttering various invocations. Presently the ground
began to rumble beneath their feet; upon which the Sibyl ordered those of Æneas's followers
who had attended him to withdraw from the spot, and exhorted the chief himself, drawing his
sword from its sheath, to march firmly forward. So saying she plunged into the cave, nor did
he hesitate to follow.

At first they moved along through a region that was utterly waste, void, and covered with an
intense gloom, deep as that of a winter's night when the moon is obscured by clouds. But this
desolate tract was not wholly untenanted, for Æneas saw flitting about certain hideous shadowy
forms. The spirits of Grief and Revenge and pale Disease, Fear and Famine and deformed Indigence,
had their abode in this vestibule of Hades; and so, too, Death and Toil, and murderous War,
and frantic Discord, her head crowned with curling vipers and bound by a blood-dyed fillet.
Here, also, were the iron chambers in which dwelt the terrible Furies. In the midst rose a
gloomy elm, which was the haunt of vain Dreams, who dwelt under every leaf. Beyond this tree
were many huge and misshapen monsters,--Centaurs, and double-formed Scyllas, and the great
dragon of the Lernæan lake, which, when it plagued the upper earth, was slain by Hercules.
Here, also, was the huge Chimæra, with its three heads vomiting flames; Gorgons, Harpies, and
other ghastly forms flitted about. At so fearful a sight. Æneas was seized with sudden fear;
he drew his sword, and would have struck at the monsters, if the Sibyl had not restrained his
hand and reminded him that they were but disembodied shadows.

The path now led them to a place where the three infernal rivers, Acheron, Cocytus, and Styx,
met in one deep, black, and boiling flood. Here there kept guard the grim ferryman Charon,
an infernal deity of fearful aspect. A long gray beard fell all tangled and neglected from
his chin; his filthy and ragged garments were knotted over his shoulders; his eyes glittered
with baleful light. He sat on a great black barge, which he pushed to and fro across the river
with a pole. An immense crowd of shades was incessantly pouring to the banks,--young and old,
matrons and virgins, warriors who had endured the toils of a long life and tender boys who
had died while yet under the care of their parents. All were eager to cross the stream, and
stretched their hands in earnest entreaty to Charon to admit them into his boat. But the sullen
ferryman only consented to receive some; others he drove back with his pole, and would on no
account permit them to cross.

Æneas was amazed at this scene, and asked the Sibyl to explain to him its meaning. "You see
before you," she replied, "the deep pools of Cocytus, and the Stygian lake, by which the Gods
are accustomed to swear when they take an oath which they dare not violate. All that crowd
which Charon will not ferry across is composed of persons who after death received not the
rites of burial; those only are permitted to enter the boat who have been interred with proper
ceremonies. As for the others, they wander unquiet about these shores for a hundred years before
they are allowed to cross to the regions beyond."

When Æneas heard this he was filled with sadness, for among the spectres of the unburied who
crowded on the bank he saw many of his own comrades who had perished during the storms he had
had to encounter during his long voyages. As he looked, there advanced, slow and mournful,
the pilot Palinurus, who had been thrown overboard by Somnus during the recent voyage from
Sicily. The hero accosted him, and asked him what god had torn him from his post and overwhelmed
him in the midst of the ocean. The oracle of Apollo, he said, had assured him that Palinurus
would be safe on the sea, and would arrive on the Italian coast; and yet it would seem that
the oracle had been falsified. The shade of Palinurus, knowing nothing of the enchantment which
had been wrought on him by Somnus, replied that no god had destroyed him, and that the oracle
had spoken truly. He had fallen into the sea through being overcome by slumber, and having
kept afloat for three days and nights, had on the fourth day reached the Italian shore alive,
but had been cruelly murdered by the savage people while clambering up the cliffs. Now his
body was tossing on the waves, sometimes thrown on the shore and then washed off again. But
he passionately entreated Æneas either to find his corpse and inter it with proper solemnities,
or else to contrive some means of taking him as his companion across the black waters of Styx,
unburied as he was, that at last his soul might find rest. The Sibyl, however, rebuked him
for expressing so impious a desire, and for hoping that the fixed decrees of the Gods could
be violated for the benefit of one insignificant mortal. But by way of consolation she informed
him that the people of the country where he had met with his death, compelled by terrible plagues
sent by Jupiter, would offer solemn atonement to his remains, erect a tomb to his memory, and
give his name to the place where it stood.

Æneas and the Sibyl now advanced toward the river; but when Charon saw them approaching, he
called out, "Whoever thou mayest be that art now coming armed and in life to our rivers, say
quickly on what errand thou art coming. This is the region of ghosts and death; to waft over
the bodies of the living in my boat is not permitted. Nor was it joyful to me to receive Hercules
when he came, nor Theseus and Pirithous, though they were descendants of the Gods and unconquerable
in war. Hercules dared to bind in chains Cerberus himself, the keeper of the gate of Tartarus,
and dragged him trembling from the very throne of Pluto. The others attempted a feat scarcely
less perilous, for they sought to carry off our queen Proserpine."

"Be not disturbed," answered the Sibyl; "we at least meditate no such plots, nor does this
mortal bring with him his arms for any purpose of violence. He is Æneas of Troy, illustrious
for piety and skill in arms, and he penetrates these gloomy abodes to have converse with his
father Anchises. If your compassion is not moved by his filial devotion, at least pay regard
to this branch." And so saying, she produced the golden bough. The surly ferryman, though filled
with rage at being forced to obey, was at once silenced. He brought his boat to the bank, and
silently received into it Æneas and his companion, driving back the ghosts that at the same
time eagerly strove to enter the vessel. It was old and leaky, and sank deep in the black flood
under the unaccustomed weight of living mortals; but Charon ferried them safely across, and
landed them on the farther side, where, in a huge den at the gate of the infernal regions,
lay Cerberus, the terrible three-headed dog which was the guardian of the place--a ferocious
brute which only Hercules among living men had been able to subdue. When Æneas approached he
opened his huge jaws and made all Hades resound with his barking; but the Sibyl threw to him
a medicated cake, which he at once devoured, and was thereby lulled into profound sleep. The
way was now safe; the Trojan chief and his companion passed quickly through the open gate,
and entered the dread region where Minos and his fellow judges pronounced on the fate of each
ghost that came before them.

The first place within the gate was assigned to the shades of infants, cut off in the very
beginning of life, who filled their allotted region with loud wailings and weeping. Beyond
these were placed persons who had been put to death in consequence of false accusations. Not
even the unjust suffering which such persons had endured on earth could at once procure for
them a place among those happy spirits declared free of guilt. Here they were doomed to wait
till the inexorable Minos examined each case and gave his award. Immediately adjoining was
the place allotted to those who, though unstained by crime, had become weary of life and had
committed self-destruction. Gladly, indeed, would they have now returned to the upper world
they had despised, but no such return was possible to them.

Æneas and his companion next viewed a region named the Fields of Mourning,--a wide tract, with
shady paths and thick myrtle groves, dedicated to those who had died through unrequited love,
and were held to have been emancipated by the miseries they had endured on earth from suffering
any punishment below. Here were to be seen, wandering disconsolately, many women of whom Æneas
had heard in old legends of Greece and Troy. Among them he beheld, with sorrow and pity, the
ill-starred Queen of Carthage, the wound she had herself inflicted yet gaping in her fair bosom.
"Dido!" he exclaimed with tears, "was it then a true rumor that reached me of your having died
after my departure, and by your own hand? If I have been the cause of your death, I am indeed
unhappy. By all I hold sacred, fair queen, I swear to you that it was against my own will I
quitted Carthage. The will of the Gods, which now has brought me, while yet living, into these
melancholy realms, drove me from you; but I dreamt not that our separation would bring upon
you such extreme suffering. Why will you not speak to me? Why do you fly from me? Never again
will the Fates permit us to meet together." But all his entreaties and his tears were vain.
The spectre gazed upon him awhile with eyes of inexorable hate, and then turned away, with
a gesture of unrelenting aversion, to a shady recess near by, where she was joined by the ghost
of her first lord, Sichæus, who by the compassion of Pluto had been permitted to bear her company.
Æneas resumed his journey, pondering sadly over the fate of the woman who but a little since
had loved him so ardently and to whom he had unwillingly brought such misfortunes. He and his
guide now came to a place dedicated to the shades of renowned warriors. Here he saw numbers
of those brave Trojans, once his companions in arms, who had fallen before Troy. They eagerly
crowded around him, pressed his hands, and questioned him as to the circumstances which had
brought him, while yet alive, amongst them. There, too, were many Greeks who had perished during
the Trojan war; but when they beheld the hero in the flesh, and wearing his gleaming armor,
they fled from him in dismay. As he passed on, after exchanging affectionate words with many
of his old comrades, he met Deïphobus, that son of Priam who, after the death of Paris, became
the husband of Helen. The spectre of the prince was cruelly mutilated,--so that Æneas scarcely
knew him. "Who, O Deïphobus," he exclaimed, "could have inflicted such shameful wounds upon
you? After I had escaped from Troy a story was brought to me that you had indeed perished,
but honorably and in fair fight, having slain many of the enemy. Then I erected in your honor
an empty tomb on the shore under Mount Ida, and offered proper funeral rites, for your body
I was unable to find."

"You, my friend," answered Deïphobus, "omitted no duty towards my corpse that you could perform.
But I owe my death and these infamous wounds to the wickedness of Helen; they are the marks
of her love. On the night after the fatal horse was brought into Troy, I was lying asleep in
my chamber, enjoying needful repose. Then my faithless wife removed all the arms from my palace,
and even took away my sword from the side of my couch. That done, she threw open the gates,
and herself summoned her former husband, Menelaus, and he and Ulysses burst into my apartment
and inflicted on me these wounds, for which I pray the Gods that they may be requited."

Æneas would have spent yet more time in conversing with the shades of his former comrades;
but the Sibyl reminded him that the hour was approaching when he must return to the upper world.
"Here," she said, "the path is divided. To the right, past the palace of Pluto, lies our way
to the Elysian Fields; on the left is the way to Tartarus, the place of punishment for the wicked."

As they proceeded toward Elysium, Æneas looked around him, and beheld to the left a vast prison,
enclosed by mighty walls, at the foot of which ran Phlegethon, the river of fire, whirling
along great rocks in its furious current. Across the stream, just opposite to where he was
standing, was a lofty gate, with columns of solid adamant. In an iron tower adjoining sat Tisiphone,
the eldest of the Furies, watching the gate. From within sounds were heard--groans of pain,
the sound of cruel lashes, and the clanking of chains. Æneas asked his companion what punishments
were being inflicted within, and who were the sufferers. "This," replied the Sibyl, "is Tartarus,
whereinto no righteous person can enter. Here Rhadamanthus presides: he searches into the deeds
of all who are sent hither, obliges them to confess all the crimes they have committed in the
upper world, and awards the punishment. As soon as the sentence is pronounced, Tisiphone scourges
the doomed one with a whip of scorpions, and then consigns him to the fierce attendants of
her sister Furies. Immediately the gates, creaking on their hinges, fly open. Within, the entrance
is guarded by a hideous Hydra, with fifty black and gaping mouths. In the pit of Tartarus beyond,
the giants who waged war against the ruler of the Gods lie prostrated by his thunderbolts.
Beside them, enduring terrible tortures, is Salmoneus. He was a king of Elis in Greece, and
was so puffed up by pride that he rode through his city on a high chariot drawn by four prancing
horses, waving in his hand a torch, and pretending to be Jupiter himself, wielding his thunderbolts.
The Almighty Sire punished his impiety by hurling from Olympus a real thunderbolt, which deprived
him of life; and now he pays the penalty of his mad pride by eternal sufferings in Tartarus.
There also lies Tityus, the huge giant who, having insulted the goddess Latona, was slain by
the darts of her children, Apollo and Diana, and whose writhing body now lies extended over
nine acres of ground, while insatiable vultures perpetually prey on his vitals, that are renewed
as fast as they are devoured. Beyond him is Ixion, bound to a wheel that never ceases to revolve,
while he is scourged by attendant Furies. He it was who, being admitted to Olympus by the generosity
of Jupiter himself, dared to seek the love of the queen of the Gods. Not less dreadful is the
punishment allotted to Pirithous, who, along with Theseus, endeavored to carry off the Queen
of Hades, Proserpine, from the side of Pluto. Over his head hangs a huge rock, which every
moment seems about to fall and crush him, but yet never actually descends; moreover, he is
plagued with a gnawing hunger, and a rich banquet is always before him, which yet he is never
able to reach. Myriads of other unhappy shades, whose course on earth has been stained by detestable
crime, here expiate the evil they have done; but had I a hundred mouths and a hundred tongues,
I could not recount all their offenses and the varieties of their punishment. It is necessary
that we should go forward, since yonder stands the palace of Pluto, where thou, O Æneas, must
deposit the bough which has gained thee admission here."

Obedient to his guide, Æneas advanced to the vast portals of the palace where Pluto, the brother
of Jupiter and monarch of the infernal kingdom, had his abode with his lovely queen Proserpine,
the daughter of Ceres, whom ages before he had carried off from the upper world. There he made
due reverence before the goddess, and deposited the golden bough at her feet. Advancing beyond,
Æneas and the Sibyl came at last to the Elysian Fields,--the abode of joy assigned to those
who during life had been distinguished for piety, virtue, and heroic actions. Here were lovely
green fields and pleasant groves; the air was pure and balmy, the sky was blue, and all was
glowing-in the light of the blessed sun. Some of the happy spirits who dwelt in this region
were amusing themselves by wrestling on the greensward, and other sports in which they had
delighted on earth, such as chariot-racing, exercises with the spear and the bow. Others were
dancing and singing to the delicious notes which Orpheus, the most skillful of musicians, produced
from his lyre. On the bank of the river Eridanus, which pours its clear waters through Elysium
over sands of gold, were gathered a band whose heads were adorned with snow-white fillets.
These were priests who had kept unstained the purity and sanctity of their office; poets who
had sung the praises of the Gods in immortal verse; and those who had made human life more
happy by the invention of useful arts. Among them the Sibyl sought out Musseus, the father
of the poets, and besought him to reveal in what retreat they should find Anchises, on whose
account she and her companion had traversed all the regions of the shades.

"None of us," answered the venerable shade, "have here any fixed abode. We wander at our will
among the shady groves and by the pleasant banks of the river. But if you mount with me this
little eminence, I will show you him whom you seek."

As he spoke, he led them to a spot where they could survey all the shining plains around, and
pointed to where Anchises, reclined in a secluded vale, was surveying the souls of his descendants
who were destined in future times to visit the earth, and were enacting beforehand the achievements
they were fated to accomplish during life. As soon as he saw Æneas advancing toward him, he
rose with hands stretched out and joyful tears pouring down his face.

"Are you indeed," he exclaimed, "come to me at last, my son? Am I permitted once more to see
your face, and to listen to the tones of your dear voice? Now indeed the hopes which I cherished
are fulfilled. By how many dangers have you been threatened since we parted! I was filled with
dread lest you should be prevented from accomplishing your task by the temptations which beset
you at Carthage."

"Thy apparition, beloved father," answered Æneas, "continually appearing to me in dreams, urged
me forward even to these regions. Permit me now to clasp thee in my arms, and do not withdraw
from my embrace." Thrice did he attempt to throw his arms about the shade, which being only
composed of thin air, was not perceptible to his touch. While the two conversed together, Æneas
observed at no great distance from them a stream, at which prodigious numbers of ghosts were
incessantly crowding to drink, swarming like bees round their hive. Astonished at this spectacle,
the hero inquired of his father what that stream was, and why those spectres were so eager
to drink of it. "These," answered Anchises, "are souls destined by fate to occupy other bodies
in the upper world; and the stream is Lethe, one draught of which is sufficient to destroy
all recollection of their former condition."

"But surely," said Æneas, "it is not to be believed that any souls which have tasted the delights
of this abode will be desirous to return again to the life of earth, with its uncertainties
and its miseries. How comes it that this impulse possesses them?"

In reply to this question, Anchises entered into a long explanation, the substance of which
was that all the spirits of the departed had to endure in the regions below a process of expiation
for their earthly sins, longer or shorter according to the nature of their transgressions.
Those that were not consigned to the pains of Tartarus entered the Elysian Fields, where, after
they had remained a thousand years, they were summoned to drink of the waters of Lethe, and
thus lose all recollection of their former lives; after which, being purified from all stain,
they were fitted to return to the upper world and inhabit new bodies. Anchises added that he
would show to his son the forms of his own descendants in the Italian kingdom he was destined
to establish, and would trace for him their achievements. Leading Æneas and the Sibyl onto
a rising ground, in the midst of the souls which were crowding about the magic stream of Lethe,
he pointed out to him a long array of future kings of Latium,--Silvius, who was to be the son
of Æneas's old age by his consort Lavinia; Procas, Capys, and Numitor, destined to be monarchs
of Alba Longa; and Romulus, the future founder of the great city of Rome, which would extend
over seven hills, and would spread her dominion over the whole earth. Not far from these were
the souls of Romulus's successors in the' early days of Rome,--Numa Pompilius, who first would
give his country laws, and encourage the arts of peace; Tullus Hostilius, who would wage victorious
wars, and extend the territories of Rome; Ancus Martius, not less successful in the field;
and Tarquin, destined to lose the throne through his oppressive reign. Anchises proceeded to
indicate to his wondering son many of the patriots and generals who in future years were to
contribute to the glory and power of the Roman State,--more especially the great Julius Caesar,
the lineal descendant of Æneas himself; and Augustus, who would once more establish the golden
age in Latium, and whose empire would extend to countries as yet unknown. The venerable shade
concluded his forecast of the future with a splendid description of the part which Rome was
destined to play in the world's history:--

  "Let others better mould the running mass
  Of metals, and inform the breathing brass,
  And soften into flesh a marble face;
  Plead better at the bar; describes the skies,
  And when the stars descend, and when they rise:
  But Rome! 'tis thine alone, with awful sway
  To rule mankind, and make the world obey,
  Disposing peace and war thy own majestic way;
  To tame the proud, the fettered slave to free,--
  These are imperial arts, and worthy thee."

Having thus inspired Æneas with renewed determination by showing him the
brilliant future that was awaiting his descendants, Anchises conducted him
over those parts of the Elysian Fields which he had not yet visited, and
showed him everything that was of peculiar interest. As they went, he
discoursed to him respecting the wars which he would have to wage in
Latium, and gave him counsel as to the means by which he should overcome
every difficulty. Then at last, having brought him to the ivory gate
whence the gods were accustomed to send false dreams to the upper world,
he bade him farewell. By that gate Æneas and the Sibyl quitted the abodes
of the dead, and ascended without difficulty or adventure to the cave of
the oracle, whence the hero hastened at once to his ships. Without loss of
time he ordered the sails to be spread, and the ships were steered along
the coast, drawing nearer ever hour to their final destination. The Italian king, Latinus, has been
    warned by signs and omens that the hand of his daughter Lavinia
    must not be given to an Italian prince, but to a stranger coming
    from a far country. He believes that Æneas is the hero chosen by
    the Fates as her husband, and greets him in most friendly manner.
    Queen Amata, however, is influenced by the Trojan-hating Juno to
    oppose this marriage. Turnus, chief of the Rutuli, a suitor of
    Lavinia, is next aroused, and soon the whole kingdom is in a
    turmoil. A fierce battle ensues.]

Turnus, having brought the bulk of his forces from before the beseiged camp, hurled them against
the army of Æneas before its ranks were properly formed, and a furious conflict at once began
to rage. The Trojan hero, rejoicing to find himself once more on a field of battle, first encountered
the Latian warriors, who chanced to be in his front. Their leader was Theron, a man of gigantic
stature, who did not hesitate to engage Æneas hand to hand; but he paid dearly for his rashness,
for the sword which Vulcan had forged--so keen was its edge, so excellent its temper--pierced
through his brazen buckler and his tunic stiffened by bars of gold, and penetrating his side,
drained the life-blood. Next the hero struck down Lycas; and rushing onward, encountered two
stalwart rustics, Cisseus and Gyas, who were making havoc among the Trojans by beating them
down with ponderous clubs. On the divine armor the heavy blows of these rude weapons fell harmless,
while the spear of Æneas proved fatal to both those who wielded them. An insolent warrior named
Pharus was defying the hero from a short distance with taunting speech, when he hurled a javelin,
which struck the boaster full in the mouth, and transfixing the throat, silenced him forever.
Now a band of seven brothers, the sons of Phorcus, all at once attacked Æneas with darts, throwing
them together. Some of the weapons struck his helmet and shield, and rebounded; others, turned
aside by the care of Venus, grazed his skin. Æneas called to Achates to bring him more spears,
and snatching one as soon as it was offered, hurled it against Mæon, one of the brothers, with
such force that it penetrated his shield and corselet, and inflicted a mortal wound in his
breast. Another brother, Alcanor, hurrying up to Mæon's assistance, he smote with a second
spear, just where the arm and shoulder join, leaving the arm hanging to the body only by two
or three shreds of skin and muscle. Seeing the slaughter that Æneas was spreading around him,
Halæsus and Messapus hurried up with their bands to confront him, and so in that part of the
field the battle grew still more furious.

