"No! but take this flower," and, as she spoke, she stooped down, and pulled up a forget-me-not
by the roots, and breathed upon it, and it blossomed all over; "take this root," said she,
"and plant it somewhere, and tend it well, and at any time after three days, if you get tired
of being here, all you have to do will be just to pull it up out of the earth, and wish yourself
at home, and you will find yourself there in a moment, in your own little bed."

"Goody gracious! you don't say so!"

"But I do say so."

"I declare, I've a good mind to try!"

"What, pull it up before you have planted it? No, no, my dear. It must be left out threescore
and twelve hours, and be watered with the dews and the starlight of the South Sea, where you
are now, thousands and thousands of miles from your own dear country; but there is one thing
I would have you know before you plant the flower."

"If you please, ma'am," said little Ruth.

"It is given to you, my dear, to help you correct your faults; you mean to do right, and you
try pretty hard, but you are so forgetful, you say."

"Yes, ma'am,"

"Well, now, but just so long as you tend this plant with care, and water it every day at the
same hour,--every day, mind you, and at the same hour,--you will be growing better."

Ruth was overjoyed.

"But," continued the fairy, "if you neglect it for a single day, it will begin to droop and
wither, the leaves will change, and some of the blossoms will drop off, and your mother will
begin to feel unhappy and low-spirited."

"O yes; but I never shall, ma'am,--never, never!"

"Don't be too sure; and if you neglect it for two whole days running, all the flowers will
drop off but one, and your mother will take to her bed, and nobody but you will know what ails
her."

Poor Ruth began to tremble, and the tears came in her eyes.

"But," continued the fairy,--"but if you should neglect it for three days running, my poor
child,--but for three days running,--the last flower will drop off, and your mother will die
of a broken heart."

"O mercy, mercy!" cried poor little Ruth. "O, take it! take it! I wouldn't have it for the
world!" And she flung it down upon the loose earth, and shook her little fingers, just as if
something had stung her.

"It is too late now. See, my dear, it has already taken root, and now there is no help for
it. Remember! your mother's health, happiness, and life depend upon that flower. Watch it well!
And now, daughter of earth," and, as she spoke, she stooped, and pulled up a whole handful
of violets, dripping with summer rain,--and repeating the words, "Daughter of earth, away!
Rosebud, appear!" shook the moisture all over her; and instantly the dear child found herself
afloat in the air, with pinions of purple gauze, bedropped with gold, with millions of little
fairies all about her, swarming like butterflies and blossoms after a pleasant rain, and welcoming
their sister Rosebud to Fairy-land.

"Well," thought Rosebud,--we must call her Rosebud now,--"well, if this being a little fairy
isn't one of the pleasantest things." And then she recollected that she had only three days
to stay there and see the sights, and she looked round her to ask if there was anybody near
to help her, and take charge of her, and tell her what to do and where to go.

"Daughter," said a sweet voice that she knew, though it appeared to come out and steal up from
the leaves of another morning-glory,--"Daughter!"

"Mother," said Rosebud.

"You may have your choice to-day of these three things,--a butterfly-hunt, a wedding, or a play."

"O, a wedding, a wedding," said Rosebud. "O, I have always wanted to see a wedding."

"Be it so," said the voice; and instantly a sweet wind arose, and lifted her up, and swept
her, and thousands more like her, over the blue deep so swiftly that nothing could be seen
but a mist of sparkles here and there, till they all found themselves on the sea-shore, at
the mouth of a deep sparry cave, all hung about with the richest moss, and lighted with pearls
in clusters, and with little patches of glow-worms, and carpeted with the wings of butterflies.
In the midst were a multitude of little fairies, hovering and floating over a throne of spider-net
ivory, on which lay the bride, with a veil of starlight, interwoven with the breath of roses,
covering her from head to foot, and falling over the couch like sunshine playing on clear water.

By and by a faint, strange murmuring was heard afar off, like the ringing of lily-bells to
the touch of the honey-bees, growing louder and louder, and coming nearer and nearer every
moment. Rosebud turned toward the sea with all the other fairies, and held her breath; and
after a few moments a fleet of little ships, with the most delicate purple and azure sails,
so thin that you could see the sky through them, came tilting along over the sea as if they
were alive,--and so they were,--and drew up, as if in order of battle, just before the mouth
of the cave; and then a silver trumpet sounded on the shore, and a swarm of hornets appeared,
whizzing and whirring all about the cave; and then there was another trumpet, and another,
about as loud as you may hear from a caged blue-bottle, and compliments were interchanged,
and a salute fired, which frightened the little lady-fairies into all sorts of shapes, and
made the little fairy-bride jump up and ask if her time had come, though, to tell you the truth,
the noise did not appear much more terrible to Rosebud than her little brother's pop-gun; and
then a sort of barge, not unlike the blossom of a sweet pea in shape, was manned from the largest
of the fleet, and, when it touched the bright sparkling sand, out leaped a little prince of
a fellow, with a bunch of white feathers in his hat, plucked from the moth-miller, a sword
like the finest cambric-needle belted about his waist, and the most unimpeachable small-clothes.

This turned out to be the bridegroom; and after a few more flourishes, and not a little pulling
and hauling among the bridesmaids, the bride and the bridegroom stood up together, and looked
silly and sheepish, as if butter wouldn't melt in their mouths; and after listening awhile
to an old droning-beetle, without hearing a word he said, they bowed and courtesied, and made
some sort of a reply, nobody could guess what; and then forth stepped the master of ceremonies,
a priggish-looking grasshopper, with straw-colored tights, and a fashionable coat, single-breasted,
and so quakerish it set poor little Rosebud a-laughing, in spite of all she could do, every
time she looked at his legs; and then! out ran the ten thousand trumpeting bumble-bees, and
the katydid grew noisier than ever, and the cricket chirruped for joy, and the bridegroom touched
the bride's cheek, and pointed slyly toward a little heap of newly gathered roses and violets,
piled up afar off, in a shadowy part of the cave, just underneath a trailing canopy of changeable
moss; the bride blushed, and the fairies tittered, and little Rosebud turned away, and wished
herself at home, and instantly the bride and the bridegroom vanished! and the ships and the
fairies! and the lights and the music! and Rosebud found herself standing face to face with
the little withered old woman, who was looking mournfully at the drooping forget-me-not. The
tears came into her eyes, and for the first time since the flower took root,--for the very
first time,--she began to think of her mother, and of her promise to the fairy; and she stooped
down, in an agony of terror and shame and self-reproach, to see how it fared with her forget-me-not.
Alas! it had already begun to droop and wither; and the leaves were changing color, and the
blossoms were dropping off, and she knew that her mother was beginning to suffer.

"O that I had never seen the hateful flower!" cried Rosebud; and then instantly recollecting
herself, she dropped upon her knees, and kissed it, and wept upon it, and the flower seemed
refreshed by her tears; and when she stood up and looked into the face of the good little fairy,
and saw her lips tremble, and the color change in her sweet mournful eyes, she felt as if she
never should be happy again.

"Daughter of earth! child of the air!" said the fairy, "two more days remain to thee. What
wouldst thou have?"

"O nothing! nothing! Let me but go back to my dear, dear mother, and I shall be so happy!"

"That cannot be. These trials are to prepare thee for thy return to her. Be patient, and take
thy choice of these three things,--a tournament, a coronation, or a ball!"

"Goody gracious! how I should like to see a coronation!" cried Rosebud; and then she recollected
herself, and blushed and courtesied, and said, "if you please, ma'am."

"Call me mother, my dear; in Fairy-land I am your mother."

"Well, mother," said Rosebud, the tears starting into her eyes, and her heart swelling, as
she determined never to call her mamma, no, never!--"well, mother, if you please, I would rather
stay here and watch the flower: I don't want to see anything more in Fairy-land; I've had enough
of such things to last me as long as I live. But O, if I should happen to fall asleep!"

"If you should, my dear, you will wake in season; but take your choice."

"Thank you, mother, but I choose to stay here."

At these words the fairy vanished, and Rosebud was left alone, looking at the dear little flower,
which seemed to grow fresher and fresher, and more and more beautiful every minute, and wondering
whether it would be so with her dear mamma; and then she fell to thinking about her home, and
how much trouble she had given her mother, and how much better she would always be after she
had got back to her once more; and then she fell asleep, and slept so soundly that she did
not wake till the sun was up, and it was time to water the flower.

At first she was terribly frightened; but when she remembered what the fairy told her, she
began to feel comfortable, and, lest something might happen, she took a little sea-shell that
lay there, and running down to the water, dipped it up full, and was on her way back, thinking
how happy her poor dear mamma would feel if she could only know what it was and who it was
that made her so much better, when she heard the strangest and sweetest noises all about her
in the air, as if the whole sky was full of the happiest and merriest creatures! and when she
looked up, lo! there was a broad glitter to be seen, as if the whole population of Fairy-land
were passing right over her head, making a sort of path like that you see at sunrise along
the blue deep, when the waters are motionless and smooth and clear.

"Well," said she, looking up, "I do wonder where they are going so fast,"--and then she stopped,--"and
I do think they might he civil enough just to let a body know; I dare say 'tis the coronation,
or the butterfly-hunt, or the tournament, or the-- O, how I should like to be there!"

No sooner was the wish uttered, than she found herself seated in a high gallery, as delicately
carved as the ivory fans of the east; with diamonds and ostrich-feathers all about and below
her, and a prodigious crowd assembled in the open air,--with the lists open,--a trumpet sounding,--and
scores of knights armed cap-a-pie, and mounted on dragon-flies, waiting for the charge. All
eyes were upon her, and everybody about was whispering her name, and she never felt half so
happy in her life; and she was just beginning to compare the delicate embroidery of her wings
with that of her next neighbor, a sweet little fairy who sat looking through her fingers at
a youthful champion below, and pouting and pouting as if she wanted everybody to know that
he had jilted her, when she happened to see a little forget-me-not embroidered on his beaver;
and she instantly recollected her promise, and cried out, "O mamma! mamma!" and wished herself
back again, where she might sit by the flower and watch over it, and never leave it, never!
till her three days of trial were ended.

In a moment, before she could speak a word, or even make a bow to the nice little boy-fairy,
who had just handed her up her glove on the point of a lance like a sunbeam, she found herself
seated by the flower. Poor little thing! It was too late! Every blossom had fallen off but
one, and that looked unhealthy, and trembled when she breathed upon it. She thought of her
mamma, and fancied she could see them carrying her up to bed, and all the doctors there, and
nobody able to tell what ailed her; and she threw herself all along upon the grass, and wished
all the fairies at the bottom of the Red Sea, and herself with them! And when she looked up,
what do you think she saw? and where do you think she was? why, she was at the bottom of the
Red Sea, and all the wonders of the Red Sea were about her,--chariots and chariot-wheels and
the skeletons of war-horses, and mounted warriors, with heaps of glittering armor, and jewels
of silver and jewels of gold, and banner and shield and spear, with millions and millions of
little sea-fairies, and Robin Goodfellows, and giants and dwarfs, and the funniest-looking
monsters you ever heard of; and the waters were all bright with fairy-lamps that were alive,
and with ribbons that were alive, and with changeable flowers that swam about and whispered
to each other in a language of their own; and there were great heaps of pearl washed up into
drifts and ridges, and a pile of the strangest-looking old-fashioned furniture, of gold and
ivory, and little mermaids with their dolls not longer than your finger, with live fishes for
tails, jumping about and playing hide-and-seek with the sun-spots and star-fishes, and the
striped water-snakes of the Indian seas,--the most brilliant and beautiful of all the creatures
that live there.

And while she was looking about her, and wondering at all she saw, she happened to think once
more of the forget-me-not, and to wish herself back again! At that instant she heard a great
heavy bell booming and tolling,--she knew it was tolling--and she knew she was too late--and
she knew that her mother was dead of a broken heart,--and she fell upon her face, and stretched
forth her hands with a shriek, and prayed God to forgive her! and allow her to see her mother
once more,--only once more!

"Why, what ails the child?" whispered somebody that seemed to be stooping over her.

It was her mother's voice! and poor Ruth was afraid to look up lest it should all vanish forever.

"Upon my word, Sarah," said another voice,--it was her father's,--"upon my word, Sarah, I do
not know; but the poor little creature's thoughts appear to have undergone another change.
I have heard nothing to-day of the forget-me-not which troubled her so the first week, have you?"

"She has mentioned it but once to-day, and then she shuddered; but perhaps we had better keep
it in the glass till we see whether it will bear to be transplanted, for she seems to have
set her little heart upon having that flower live; I wish I knew why!"

"Do you, indeed, mamma?" whispered poor Ruth, still without looking up; "well, then, I will
tell you. That flower was given me by a fairy to make me remember my promises to you, my poor,
dear, dead mamma; and so long as I water that every day at the same hour, so long I shall be
growing better and better, and my poor dear mamma,--boo-hoo! boo-hoo!" and the little thing
began to cry as if she would break her heart.

"Why, this is stranger than all," said the father. "I can't help thinking the poor child would
be rational enough now, if she hadn't read so many fairy-books; but what a mercy it was, my
dear Sarah, and how shall we ever be thankful enough, that you happened to be down there when
she fell into the water."

"Ah!" Ruth Page began to hold her breath, and listen with the strangest feeling.

"Yes, Robert; but I declare to you, I am frightened whenever I think of the risk I ran by letting
her fall in, head first, as I did."

Poor Ruth began to lift her head, and to feel about, and pinch herself to see if she was really
awake.

"And then, too, just think of this terrible fever, and the strange, wild poetry she has been
talking, day after day, about Fairy-land."

"Poetry! Fudge, Robert, fudge!"

Ruth looked up, full of amazement and joy, and whispered, "Fudge, father, fudge!" and the very
next words that fell from her trembling lips as she sat looking at her mother, and pointing
at a little bunch of forget-me-nots in full flower, that her mother had kept for her in a glass
by the window, were these, "O mother! dearest mother! what a terrible dream I have had!"

"Hush, my love, hush! and go to sleep, and we will talk this matter over when you are able
to bear it."

"Goody gracious, mamma!"

"There she goes again!" cried the father; "now we shall have another fit!"

"Hush, hush, my love! you must go to sleep now, and not talk any more."

"Well, kiss me, mamma, and let me have your hand to go to sleep with, and I'll try."

Her mother kissed the dear little thing, and took her hand in hers, and laid her cheek upon
the pillow, and in less than five minutes she was sound asleep, and breathing as she hadn't
breathed before since she had been fished out of the water, nearly three weeks back, on her
way to Fairy-land.

  * * * * * * * * * * * * * * * * * * * * * * * * * * * * * *

A FADED LEAF OF HISTORY.

BY REBECCA HARDING DAVIS.

One quiet, snowy afternoon this winter, I found in a dark corner of one of the oldest libraries
in the country a curious pamphlet. It fell into my hands like a bit of old age and darkness
itself. The pages were coffee-colored, and worn thin and ragged at the edges, like rotting
leaves in fall; they had grown clammy to the touch, too, from the grasp of so many dead years.
There was a peculiar smell about the book which it had carried down from the days when young
William Penn went up and down the clay-paths of his village of Philadelphia, stopping to watch
the settlers fishing in the clear ponds or to speak to the gangs of yellow-painted Indians
coming in with peltry from the adjacent forest.

The leaves were scribbled over with the name of John,--"John," in a cramped, childish hand.
His father's book, no doubt, and the writing a bit of boyish mischief. Outside now, in the
street, the boys were pelting each other with snowballs, just as this John had done in the
clay-paths. But for nearly two hundred years his bones had been crumbled into lime and his
flesh gone back into grass and roots. Yet here he was, a boy still; here was the old pamphlet
and the scrawl in yellowing ink, with the smell about it still.

Printed by Rainier Janssen, 1698. I turned over the leaves, expecting to find a sermon preached
before Andros, "for the conversion of Sadducees," or some "Report of the Condition of the Principalities
of New Netherland, or New Sweden, for the Use of the Lord's High Proprietors thereof" (for
of such precious dead dust this library is full); but I found, instead, wrapped in weighty
sentences and backed by the gravest and most ponderous testimony, the story of a baby, "a Sucking
Child six Months old." It was like a live seed in the hand of a mummy. The story of a baby
and a boy and an aged man, in "the devouring Waves of the Sea; and also among the cruel devouring
Jaws of inhuman Canibals." There were, it is true, other divers persons in the company, by
one of whom the book is written. But the divers persons seemed to me to be only part of that
endless caravan of ghosts that has been crossing the world since the beginning; they never
can be anything but ghosts to us. If only to find a human interest in them, one would rather
they had been devoured by inhuman cannibals than not. But a baby and a boy and an aged man!

All that afternoon, through the dingy windows of the old building, I could see the snow falling
soft and steadily, covering the countless roofs of the city, and fancying the multitude of
comfortable happy homes which these white roofs hid, and the sweet-tempered, gracious women
there, with their children close about their knees. I thought I would like to bring this little
live baby back to the others, with its strange, pathetic story, out of the buried years where
it has been hidden with dead people so long, and give it a place and home among us all again.

I only premise that I have left the facts of the history unaltered, even in the names; and
that I believe them to be, in every particular, true.

On the 22d of August, 1696, this baby, a puny, fretful boy, was carried down the street of
Port Royal, Jamaica, and on board the "barkentine" Reformation, bound for Pennsylvania; a Province
which, as you remember, Du Chastellux, a hundred years later, described as a most savage country
which he was compelled to cross on his way to the burgh of Philadelphia, on its border. To
this savage country our baby was bound. He had by way of body-guard his mother, a gentle Quaker
lady; his father, Jonathan Dickenson, a wealthy planter, on his way to increase his wealth
in Penn's new settlement; three negro men, four negro women, and an Indian named Venus, all
slaves of the said Dickenson; the captain, his boy, seven seamen, and two passengers. Besides
this defence, the baby's ship was escorted by thirteen sail of merchantmen under convoy of
an armed frigate. For these were the days when, to the righteous man, terror walked abroad,
in the light and the darkness. The green, quiet coasts were but the lurking-places of savages,
and the green, restless seas more treacherous with pirates. Kidd had not yet buried his treasure,
but was prowling up and down the eastern seas, gathering it from every luckless vessel that
fell in his way. The captain, Kirle, debarred from fighting by cowardice, and the Quaker Dickenson,
forbidden by principle, appear to have set out upon their perilous journey, resolved to defend
themselves by suspicion, pure and simple. They looked for treachery behind every bush and billow;
the only chance of safety lay, they maintained, in holding every white man to be an assassin
and every red man a cannibal until they were proved otherwise.

The boy was hired by Captain Kirle to wait upon him. His name was John Hilliard, and he was
precisely what any of these good-humored, mischievous fellows outside would have been, hired
on a brigantine two centuries ago; disposed to shirk his work in order to stand gaping at Black
Ben fishing, or to rub up secretly his old cutlass for the behoof of Kidd, or the French when
they should come, while the Indian Venus stood by looking on, with the baby in her arms.

The aged man is invariably set down as chief of the company, though the captain held all the
power and the Quaker all the money. But white hair and a devout life gave an actual social
rank in those days, obsolete now, and Robert Barrow was known as a man of God all along the
coast-settlements from Massachusetts to Ashley River, among whites and Indians. Years before,
in Yorkshire, his inward testimony (he being a Friend) had bidden him go preach in this wilderness.
He asked of God, it is said, rather to die; but was not disobedient to the heavenly call, and
came and labored faithfully. He was now returning from the West Indies, where he had carried
his message a year ago.

The wind set fair for the first day or two; the sun was warm. Even the grim Quaker Dickenson
might have thought the white-sailed fleet a pretty sight scudding over the rolling green plain,
if he could have spared time to his jealous eyes from scanning the horizon for pirates. Our
baby, too, saw little of sun or sea; for, being but a sickly baby, with hardly vitality enough
to live from day to day, it was kept below, smothered in the finest of linens and the softest
of paduasoy.

One morning when the fog lifted, Dickenson's watch for danger was rewarded.  They had lost
their way in the night; the fleet was gone, the dead blue slopes of water rolled up to the
horizon on every side and were met by the dead blue sky, without the break of a single sail
or the flicker of a flying bird. For fifteen days they beat about without any apparent aim
other than to escape the enemies whom they hourly expected to leap out from behind the sky-line.
On the sixteenth day friendly signs were made to them from shore. "A fire made a great Smoak,
and People beckoned to us to putt on Shoar," but Kirle and Dickenson, seized with fresh fright,
put about and made off as for their lives, until nine o'clock that night, when, seeing two
signal-lights, doubtless from some of their own convoy, they cried out, "The French! the French!"
and tacked back again as fast as might be. The next day, Kirle being disabled by a jibbing
boom, Dickenson brought his own terrors into command, and for two or three days whisked the
unfortunate barkentine up and down the coast, afraid of both sea and shore, until finally,
one night, he run her aground on a sand-bar on the Florida reefs. Wondering much at this "judgment
of God," Dickenson went to work. Indeed, to do him justice, he seems to have been always ready
enough to use his burly strength and small wit, trusting to them to carry him through the world
wherein his soul was beleaguered by many inscrutable judgments of God and the universal treachery
of his brother-man.

The crew abandoned the ship in a heavy storm. A fire was kindled in the bight of a sand-hill
and protected as well as might be with sails and palmetto branches; and to this, Dickenson,
with "Great trembling and Pain of Hartt," carried his baby in his own arms and laid it in its
mother's breast. Its little body was pitiful to see from leanness, and a great fever was upon
it. Robert Barrow, the crippled captain, and a sick passenger shared the child's shelter. "Whereupon
two Canibals appeared, naked, but for a breech-cloth of plaited straw, with Countenances bloody
and furious, and foaming at the Mouth"; but on being given tobacco, retreated inland to alarm
the tribe. The ship's company gathered together and sat down to wait their return, expecting
cruelty, says Dickenson, and dreadful death. Christianity was now to be brought face to face
with heathenness, which fact our author seems to have recognized under all his terror. "We
began by putting our trust in the Lord, hoping for no Mercy from these bloody-minded Creatures;
having too few guns to use except to enrage them, a Motion arose among us to deceive them by
calling ourselves Spaniards, that Nation having some influence over them"; to which lie all
consented, except Robert Barrow. It is curious to observe how these early Christians met the
Indians with the same weapons of distrust and fraud which have proved so effective with us
in civilizing them since.

In two or three hours the savages appeared in great numbers, bloody and furious, and in their
chronic state of foaming at the mouth. "They rushed in upon us, shouting 'Nickalees? Nickalees?'
(Un Ingles.) To which we replied 'Espania.' But they cried the more fiercely 'No Espania, Nickalees!'
and being greatly enraged thereat, seized upon all Trunks and Chests and our cloathes upon
our Backs, leaving us each only a pair of old Breeches, except Robert Barrow, my wife, and
child, from whom they took nothing." The king, or Cassekey, as Dickenson calls him, distinguished
by a horse-tail fastened to his belt behind, took possession of their money and buried it,
at which the good Quaker spares not his prayers for punishment on all pagan robbers, quite
blind to the poetic justice of the burial, as the money had been made on land stolen from the
savages. The said Cassekey also set up his abode in their tent; kept all his tribe away from
the woman and child and aged man; kindled fires; caused, as a delicate attention, the only
hog remaining on the wreck to be killed and brought to them for a midnight meal; and, in short,
comported himself so hospitably, and with such kindly consideration toward the broad-brimmed
Quaker, that we are inclined to account him the better-bred fellow of the two, in spite of
his scant costume of horse-tail and belt of straw. As for the robbery of the ship's cargo,
no doubt the Cassekey had progressed far enough in civilization to know that to the victors
belong the spoils. Florida, for two years, had been stricken down from coast to coast by a
deadly famine, and in all probability these cannibals returned thanks to whatever God they
had for this windfall of food and clothes devoutly as our forefathers were doing at the other
end of the country for the homes which they had taken by force. There is a good deal of kinship
among us in circumstances, after all, as well as in blood. The chief undoubtedly recognized
a brother in Dickenson, every whit as tricky as himself, and would fain, savage as he was,
have proved him to be something better; for, after having protected them for several days,
he came into their tent and gravely and with authority set himself to asking the old question,
"Nickalees?"

"To which, when we denied, he directed his Speech to the Aged Man, who would not conceal the
Truth, but answered in Simplicity, 'Yes.' Then he cried in Wrath 'Totus Nickalees!' and went
out from us. But returned in great fury with his men, and stripped all Cloathes from us."

However, the clothes were returned, and the chief persuaded them to hasten on to his own village.
Dickenson, suspecting foul play as usual, insisted on going to Santa Lucia. There, the Indian
told him, they would meet fierce savages and undoubtedly have their throats cut, which kindly
warning was quite enough to drive the Quaker to Santa Lucia headlong. He was sure of the worst
designs on the part of the cannibal, from a strange glance which he fixed upon the baby as
he drove them before him to his village, saying with a treacherous laugh, that after they had
gone there for a purpose he had, they might go to Santa Lucia as they would.

It was a bleak, chilly afternoon as they toiled mile after mile along the beach, the Quaker
woman far behind the others with her baby in her arms, carrying it, as she thought, to its
death. Overhead, flocks of dark-winged grakles swooped across the lowering sky, uttering from
time to time their harsh, foreboding cry; shoreward, as far as the eye could see, the sand
stretched in interminable yellow ridges, blackened here and there by tufts of dead palmetto-trees;
while on the other side the sea had wrapped itself in a threatening silence and darkness. A
line of white foam crept out of it from horizon to horizon, dumb and treacherous, and licked
the mother's feet as she dragged herself heavily after the others.

From time to time the Indian stealthily peered over her shoulder, looking at the child's thin
face as it slept upon her breast. As evening closed in, they came to a broad arm of the sea
thrust inland through the beach, and halted at the edge. Beyond it, in the darkness, they could
distinguish the yet darker shapes of the wigwams, and savages gathered about two or three enormous
fires that threw long red lines of glare into the sea-fog. "As we stood there for many Hour's
Time," says Jonathan Dickenson, "we were assured these Dreadful Fires were prepared for us."

Of all the sad little company that stand out against the far-off dimness of the past, in that
long watch upon the beach, the low-voiced, sweet-tempered Quaker lady comes nearest and is
the most real to us. The sailors had chosen a life of peril years ago; her husband, with all
his suspicious bigotry, had, when pushed to extremes, an admirable tough courage with which
to face the dangers of sea and night and death; and the white-headed old man, who stood apart
and calm, had received, as much as Elijah of old, a Divine word to speak in the wilderness,
and the life in it would sustain him through death. But Mary Dickenson was only a gentle, commonplace
woman, whose life had been spent on a quiet farm, whose highest ambition was to take care of
her snug little house, and all of whose brighter thoughts or romance or passion began and ended
in this staid Quaker and the baby that was a part of them both. It was only six months ago
that this first-born child had been laid in her arms; and as she lay on the white bed looking
out on the spring dawning day after day, her husband sat beside her telling her again and again
of the house he had made ready for her in Penn's new settlement. She never tired of hearing
of it. Some picture of this far-off home must have come to the poor girl as she stood now in
the night, the sea-water creeping up to her naked feet, looking at the fires built, as she
believed, for her child.

Toward midnight a canoe came from the opposite side, into which the chief put Barrow, Dickenson,
the child, and its mother. Their worst fears being thus confirmed, they crossed in silence,
holding each other by the hand, the poor baby moaning now and then. It had indeed been born
tired into the world, and had gone moaning its weak life out ever since.

Landing on the farther beach, the crowd of waiting Indians fled from them as if frightened,
and halted in the darkness beyond the fires. But the Cassekey dragged them on toward a wigwam,
taking Mary and the child before the others. "Herein," says her husband, "was the Wife of the
Canibal and some old Women sitting in a Cabbin made of Sticks about a Foot high, and covered
with a Matt. He made signs for us to sitt down on the Ground, which we did. The Cassekey's
Wife looking at my Child and having her own Child in her lapp, putt it away to another Woman,
and rose upp and would not bee denied, but would have my Child. She took it and suckled it
at her Breast, feeling it from Top to Toe, and viewing it with a sad Countenance."

The starving baby, being thus warmed and fed, stretched its little arms and legs out on the
savage breast comfortably and fell into a happy sleep, while its mother sat apart and looked on.

"An Indian did kindly bring to her a Fish upon a Palmetto Leaf and set it down before her;
but the Pain and Thoughts within her were so great that she could not eat."

The rest of the crew having been brought over, the chief set himself to work and speedily had
a wigwam built in which mats were spread, and the shipwrecked people, instead of being killed
and eaten, went to sleep just as the moon rose, and the Indians began "a Consert of hideous
Noises," whether of welcome or worship they could not tell.

Dickenson and his band remained in this Indian village for several days, endeavoring all the
time to escape, in spite of the kind treatment of the chief, who appears to have shared all
that he had with them. The Quaker kept a constant, fearful watch, lest there might be death
in the pot. When the Cassekey found they were resolved to go, he set out for the wreck, bringing
back a boat which was given to them, with butter, sugar, a rundlet of wine, and chocolate;
to Mary and the child he also gave everything which he thought would be useful to them. This
friend in the wilderness appeared sorry to part with them, but Dickenson was blind both to
friendship and sorrow, and obstinately took the direction against which the chief warned him,
suspecting treachery, "though we found afterward that his counsell was good."

Robert Barrow, Mary, and the child, with two sick men, went in a canoe along the coast, keeping
the crew in sight, who, with the boy, travelled on foot, sometimes singing as they marched.
So they began the long and terrible journey, the later horrors of which I dare not give in
the words here set down. The first weeks were painful and disheartening, although they still
had food. Their chief discomfort arose from the extreme cold at night and the tortures from
the sand-flies and mosquitoes on their exposed bodies, which they tried to remedy by covering
themselves with sand, but found sleep impossible.

At last, however, they met the fiercer savages of whom the chief had warned them, and practised
upon them the same device of calling themselves Spaniards. By this time, one would suppose,
even Dickenson's dull eyes would have seen the fatal idiocy of the lie. "Crying out 'Nickalees,
No Espanier,' they rushed upon us, rending the few Cloathes from us that we had; they took
all from my Wife, even tearing her Hair out, to get at the Lace, wherewith it was knotted."
They were then dragged furiously into canoes and rowed to the village, being stoned and shot
at as they went. The child was stripped, while one savage filled its mouth with sand.

But at that the chief's wife came quickly to Mary and protected her from the sight of all,
and took the sand out of the child's mouth, entreating it very tenderly, whereon the mass of
savages fell back, muttering and angry.

The same woman brought the poor naked lady to her wigwam, quieted her, found some raw deerskins,
and showed her how to cover herself and the baby with them.

The tribe among which they now were had borne the famine for two years; their emaciated and
hunger-bitten faces gave fiercer light to their gloomy, treacherous eyes. Their sole food was
fish and palmetto-berries, both of which were scant. Nothing could have been more unwelcome
than the advent of this crowd of whites, bringing more hungry mouths to fill; and, indeed,
there is little reason to doubt that the first intention was to put them all to death. But,
after the second day, Dickenson relates that the chief "looked pleasantly upon my Wife and
Child"; instead of the fish entrails and filthy water in which the fish had been cooked which
had been given to the prisoners, he brought clams to Mary, and kneeling in the sand showed
her how to roast them. The Indian women, too, carried off the baby, knowing that its mother
had no milk for it, and handed it about from one to the other, putting away their own children
that they might give it their food. At which the child, that, when it had been wrapped in fine
flannel and embroidery had been always nigh to death, began to grow fat and rosy, to crow and
laugh as it had never done before, and kick its little legs sturdily about under their bit
of raw skin covering. Mother Nature had taken the child home, that was all, and was breathing
new lusty life into it, out of the bare ground and open sky, the sun and wind, and the breasts
of these her children; but its father saw in the change only another inexplicable miracle of
God. Nor does he seem to have seen that it was the child and its mother who had been a protection
and shield to the whole crew and saved them through this their most perilous strait.

