In the summer of 1941, the British Government published a report written by the Committee for
Military Application of Uranium Detonation (MAUD).  This report stated that a nuclear weapon
was possible and concluded that its construction should begin immediately. The MAUD report,
and to a lesser degree the discovery of plutonium, encouraged American leaders to think more
seriously about developing a nuclear weapon.  On 6 December 1941, President Roosevelt appointed
the S-1 Committee to determine if the United States could construct a nuclear weapon.  Six
months later, the S-1 Committee gave the President its report, recommending a fast-paced program
that would cost up to $100 million and that might produce the weapon by July 1944 (12).

The President accepted the S-1 Committee's recommendations.  The effort to construct the weapon
was turned over to the War Department, which assigned the task to the Army Corps of Engineers.
In September 1942, the Corps of Engineers established the Manhattan Engineer District to oversee
the development of a nuclear weapon.  This effort was code-named the "Manhattan Project" (12).

Within the next two years, the MED built laboratories and production plants throughout the
United States.  The three principal centers of the Manhattan Project were the Hanford, Washington,
Plutonium Production Plant; the Oak Ridge, Tennessee, U-235 Production Plant; and the Los Alamos
Scientific Laboratory in northern New Mexico.  At LASL, Manhattan Project scientists and technicians,
directed by Dr. J. Robert Oppenheimer,* investigated the theoretical problems that had to be
solved before a nuclear weapon could be developed (12).

 * This report identifies by name only those LASL and MED personnel who
 are well-known historical figures.

During the first two years of the Manhattan Project, work proceeded at a slow but steady pace.
Significant technical problems had to be solved, and difficulties in the production of plutonium,
particularly the inability to process large amounts, often frustrated the scientists.  Nonetheless,
by 1944 sufficient progress had been made to persuade the scientists that their efforts might
succeed.  A test of the plutonium implosion device was necessary to determine if it would work
and what its effects would be.  In addition, the scientists were concerned about the possible
effects if the conventional explosives in a nuclear device, particularly the more complex implosion-type
device, failed to trigger the nuclear reaction when detonated over enemy territory.  Not only
would the psychological impact of the weapon be lost, but the enemy might recover large amounts
of fissionable material.

In March 1944, planning began to test-fire a plutonium-fueled implosion device.  At LASL, an
organization designated the X-2 Group was formed within the Explosives Division.  Its duties
were "to make preparations for a field test in which blast, earth shock, neutron and gamma
radiation would be studied and complete photographic records made of the explosion and any
atmospheric phenomena connected with the explosion" (13).  Dr. Oppenheimer chose the name TRINITY
for the project in September 1944 (12).

1.2  THE PROJECT TRINITY SITE

The TRINITY site was chosen by Manhattan Project scientists after thorough study of eight different
sites.  The site selected was an area measuring 29 by 39 kilometers* in the northwest corner
of the Alamogordo Bombing Range.  The Alamogordo Bombing Range was located in a desert in south-central
New Mexico called the Jornada del Muerto ("Journey of Death").  Figure 1-1 shows the location
of the bombing range.  The site was chosen for its remote location and good weather and because
it was already owned by the Government.  MED obtained permission to use the site from the Commanding
General of the Second Air Force (Army Air Forces) on 7 September 1944 (12).  Figure 1-2 shows
the TRINITY site with its major installations.

 * Throughout this report, surface distances are given in metric units.
 The metric conversion factors include: 1 meter = 3.28 feet; 1 meter =
 1.09 yards; and 1 kilometer = 0.62 miles.  Vertical distances are
 given in feet; altitudes are measured from mean sea level, while
 heights are measured from surface level, unless otherwise noted.

Ground zero for the TRINITY detonation was at UTM coordinates 630266.**  Three shelters, located
approximately 9,150 meters (10,000 yards) north, west, and south of ground zero, were built
for the protection of test personnel and instruments.  The shelters had walls of reinforced
concrete and were buried under a few feet of earth.  The south shelter was the Control Point
for the test (12).  The Base Camp, which was the headquarters for Project TRINITY, was located
approximately 16 kilometers southwest of ground zero.  The principal buildings of the abandoned
McDonald Ranch, where the active parts of the TRINITY device were assembled, stood 3,660 meters
southeast of ground zero.  Seven guard posts, which were simply small tents or parked trucks
like the ones shown in figures 1-3 and 1-4, dotted the test site (9).

 ** Universal Transverse Mercator (UTM) coordinates are used in this
 report.  The first three digits refer to a point on an east- west
 axis, and the second three digits refer to a point on a north-south
 axis.  The point so designated is the southwest corner of an area 100
 meters square.

1.3 THE PROJECT TRINITY ORGANIZATION

The organization that planned and conducted Project TRINITY grew out of the X-2 Group.  LASL,
though administered by the University of California, was part of the Manhattan Project, supervised
by the Army Corps of Engineers Manhattan Engineer District.  The chief of MED was Maj. Gen.
Leslie Groves of the Army Corps of Engineers.  Major General Groves reported to both the Chief
of Engineers and the Army Chief of Staff.  The Army Chief of Staff reported to the Secretary
of War, a Cabinet officer directly responsible to the President.  Figure 1-5 outlines the organization
of Project TRINITY.

The director of the Project TRINITY organization was Dr. Kenneth Bainbridge.  Dr. Bainbridge
reported to Dr. J. Robert Oppenheimer, the director of LASL.  A team of nine research consultants
advised Dr. Bainbridge on scientific and technical matters (3).

The Project TRINITY organization was divided into the following groups (3):

o The TRINITY Assembly Group, responsible for assembling and arming the nuclear device

o The TR-1 (Services) Group, responsible for construction, utilities, procurement, transportation,
and communications

o  The TR-2 Group, responsible for air-blast and earth-shock measurements

o The TR-3 (Physics) Group, responsible for experiments concerning measurements of ionizing
radiation

o The TR-4 Group, responsible for meteorology

o The TR-5 Group, responsible for spectrographic and photographic measurements

o The TR-6 Group, responsible for the airblast-airborne condenser gauges

o The TR-7 (Medical) Group, responsible for the radiological safety and general health of the
Project TRINITY participants.

Each of these groups was divided into several units.  Individuals were also assigned special
tasks outside their groups, such as communications and tracking the TRINITY cloud with a searchlight
(3).

1.4 MILITARY AND CIVILIAN PARTICIPANTS IN PROJECT TRINITY

From March 1944 until the beginning of 1946, several thousand people participated in Project
TRINITY.  These included not only the LASL scientists, but also scientists, technicians, and
workmen employed at MED installations throughout the United States.  According to entrance
logs, film badge data, and other records, about 1,000 people either worked at or visited the
TRINITY site from 16 July 1945 through 1946 (1; 3; 8; 15; 16).

Although supervised by Major General Groves and the Army Corps of Engineers, many Manhattan
Project personnel were civilians.  Military personnel were assigned principally to support
services, such as security and logistics, although soldiers with special skills worked with
the civilians (7; 12).  Most of the military personnel were part of the Army Corps of Engineers,
although Navy and other Army personnel were also assigned to the project (4; 12).

CHAPTER 2

THE ACTIVITIES AT PROJECT TRINITY

The TRINITY nuclear device was detonated on a 100-foot tower (shown in figure 2-1) at UTM coordinates
630266 on the Alamogordo Bombing Range, New Mexico, at 0530 Mountain War Time, on 16 July 1945.
The detonation had a yield of 19 kilotons and left an impression 2.9 meters deep and 335 meters
wide.  The cloud resulting from the detonation rose to an altitude of 35,000 feet (5).  The
TRINITY detonation is shown in figure 2-2.  At 34,600 feet, the wind speed was 23 knots from
the southwest.  The winds blew the cloud to the northeast (5).

2.1  PRESHOT ACTIVITIES

Construction of test site facilities on the Alamogordo Bombing Range began in December 1944.
The first contingent of personnel, 12 military policemen, arrived just before Christmas.  The
number of personnel at the test site gradually increased until the peak level of about 325
was reached the week before the detonation (2; 12).

On 7 May 1945 at 0437 hours, 200 LASL scientists and technicians exploded 100 tons of conventional
high explosives at the test site. The explosives were stacked on top of a 20-foot tower and
contained tubes of radioactive solution to simulate, at a low level of activity, the radioactive
products expected from a nuclear explosion.  The test produced a bright sphere which spread
out in an oval form.  A column of smoke and debris rose as high as 15,000 feet before drifting
eastward.  The explosion left a shallow crater 1.5 meters deep and 9 meters wide.  Monitoring
in the area revealed a level of radioactivity low enough to allow workers to spend several
hours in the area (3; 12).

The planned firing date for the TRINITY device was 4 July 1945.  On 14 June 1945, Dr. Oppenheimer
changed the test date to no earlier than 13 July and no later than 23 July.  On 30 June, the
earliest firing date was moved to 16 July, even though better weather was forecast for 18 and
19 July.  Because the Allied conference in Potsdam, Germany, was about to begin and the President
needed the results of the test as soon as possible, the TRINITY test organization adjusted
its schedules accordingly and set shot-time at 0400 hours on 16 July (3; 12; 14).

The final preparations for the detonation started at 2200 on 15 July. To prevent unnecessary
danger, all personnel not essential to the firing activities were ordered to leave the test
site.  During the night of 15 July, these people left for viewing positions on Compania Hill,*
32 kilometers northwest of ground zero.  They were joined by several spectators from LASL (3; 12).

 * "Compania" also appears as "Compana," "Campagne," or "Compagna" in
 various sources.

Project personnel not required to check instruments within the ground zero area stationed themselves
in the three shelters or at other assigned locations.  The military police at Guard Posts 1,
2, and 4 blocked off all roads leading into the test site, and the men at Guard Post 8, the
only access to the ground zero area from the Base Camp, ensured that no unauthorized individuals
entered the area (9; 12).

At 0100 hours on 16 July, military policemen from Guard Posts 3, 5, 6, and 7 met to compare
their logs of personnel authorized to be in the ground zero area.  The guards then traveled
along the access roads to clear out all project personnel.  As individuals left for their assigned
shelters or stations, their departures from the test area were recorded in the military police
logs.  By 0200 the area sweep was completed, and the military police went to their shelters
and stations.  A final check of personnel was made in each shelter (3; 9; 12).

At the time of detonation, 99 project personnel were in the three shelters: 29 in the north
shelter, 37 in the west shelter, and 33 in the south shelter.  Dr. Oppenheimer, Dr. Bainbridge,
and other key personnel awaited the firing at the south shelter, which served as the Control
Point.  Figure 2-3 shows the exterior of the south shelter; figure 2-4 gives an interior view
of one of the shelters, most likely the south.  Although most of the shelter occupants were
civilians, at least 23 military participants were spread among the three shelters (1; 12).

The remainder of the test site personnel were positioned at the Base Camp 16 kilometers south-southwest
of ground zero, or on Compania Hill, or at the guard posts.  Important Government officials,
such as General Groves and Dr. Vannevar Bush, Director of the U.S. Office of Scientific Research
and Development, viewed the detonation from a trench at the Base Camp.  The Base Camp is depicted
in figure 2-5.

The military police of Guard Posts 1 and 2 were instructed to be in foxholes approximately
five kilometers west and north, respectively, from their posts.  The military police of Guard
Posts 3 and 4 were instructed to be in foxholes south of Mockingbird Gap.  A radiological safety
monitor was assigned to the group from Guard Post 4.  Guard Post 5 personnel were to be in
the south shelter, Guard Post 6 personnel in the west shelter, and Guard Post 7 personnel in
the north shelter. The military police of Guard Post 8 remained at that post, 400 meters east
of the Base Camp (9).

An evacuation detachment of between 144 and 160 officers and enlisted men was stationed near
Guard Post 2, about 14 kilometers northwest of ground zero.  These men were on standby in case
ranches and towns beyond the test site had to be evacuated.  Five radiological safety monitors
were assigned to this detachment.  The identity of the remaining evacuation personnel has not
been documented (3; 4; 8; 10; 15).

With the exception of the shelter occupants (99 personnel) and evacuation detachment (between
144 and 160 men), the number of personnel at the test site at the time of detonation has not
been documented.  Film badge records show that approximately 355 people were at the test site
at some time during 16 July.  The shelter occupants and 44 men of the evacuation detachment
are on this list. It has not been possible to pinpoint the location of many of the remaining
personnel.  Some were at the Base Camp or on Compania Hill. Since many of these people returned
to the test site after shot-time to work on experiments, their film badges registered exposures
from residual radioactivity on 16 July.  Based on the documented personnel totals, at least
the following 263 individuals were at the test site when the device was detonated (1; 4; 8-10;
13; 15):

o 99 shelter occupants at shelters 9,150 meters north, south, and west of ground zero

o 144 to 160 officers and enlisted men of the evacuation detachment, located 14 kilometers
northwest of ground zero near Guard Post 2

o Five radiological safety monitors assigned to the evacuation detachment to perform offsite
monitoring of nearby towns and residences

o One radiological safety monitor assigned to Guard Post 4

o Two military policemen at each of the seven guard posts (indicated by photographs such as
figures 1-3 and 1-4).

2.2  DETONATION AND POSTSHOT ACTIVITIES

Because of bad weather, the Project TRINITY director (Dr.  Bainbridge) delayed the detonation,
which had been scheduled for 0400 hours.  By 0445, however, the forecast was better, and shot-time
was set for 0530.  This gave the scientists 45 minutes to arm the device and prepare the instruments
in the shelters.  The final countdown began at 0510, and the device was detonated at 0529:45
Mountain War Time from the Control Point in the south shelter (3; 12).

No one was closer than 9,150 meters to ground zero at the time of the detonation.  With the
exception of a few men holding the ropes of barrage balloons or guiding cameras to follow the
fireball as it ascended, all shelter personnel were in or behind the shelters.  Some left the
shelters after the initial flash to view the fireball.  As a precautionary measure, they had
been advised to lie on the ground before the blast wave arrived.  Project personnel located
beyond the shelters, such as at the Base Camp and on Compania Hill, were also instructed to
lie on the ground or in a depression until the blast wave had passed (1).  However, the blast
wave at these locations was not as strong as had been expected.

In order to prevent eye damage, Dr. Bainbridge ordered the distribution of welder's filter
glass.  Because it was not known exactly how the flash might affect eyesight, it was suggested
that direct viewing of the fireball not be attempted even with this protection.  The recommended
procedure was to face away from ground zero and watch the hills or sky until the fireball illuminated
the area.  Then, after the initial flash had passed, one could turn around and view the fireball
through the filter glass.  Despite these well-publicized instructions, two participants did
not take precautions.  They were temporarily blinded by the intense flash but experienced no
permanent vision impairment (1; 17).

People as far away as Santa Fe and El Paso saw the brilliant light of the detonation.  Windows
rattled in the areas immediately surrounding the test site, waking sleeping ranchers and townspeople.
To dispel any rumors that might compromise the security of Project TRINITY, the Government
announced that an Army munitions dump had exploded. However, immediately after the destruction
of Hiroshima, the Government revealed to the public what had actually occurred in the New Mexico
desert (12; 13).

Immediately after the shot, Medical Group personnel began the radiological monitoring activities
described in section 3.1.2.  At 0815, when most of the monitoring activities were completed,
preparations began for entrance into the ground zero area.  To regulate entry into the area,
a "Going-in Board" was established, consisting of Dr. Bainbridge, the Chief of the Medical
Group, and a special scientific consultant.  Its purpose was to determine whether a party had
a valid reason for entering the ground zero area.  The board functioned for three days.

Military police at Guard Post 4 and at three roadblocks set up along Broadway controlled entry
into the area.  Guard Posts 3, 5, 6, and 7 were within 3,000 meters of ground zero and thus
remained unmanned. At the south shelter, the Medical Group set up a "going-in" station where
personnel were required to stop to put on protective clothing (coveralls, booties, caps, and
cotton gloves) and pick up monitoring equipment before entering the ground zero area.  Since
it was not known how much radioactive material might be suspended in the air, all personnel
entering the ground zero area wore complete protective covering and respirators for the first
three days after the detonation.  Figure 2-6 shows two Project TRINITY personnel wearing protective
clothing (1).

On the day of the shot, five parties entered the ground zero area. One party consisted of eight
members of the earth-sampling group. They obtained samples by driving to within 460 meters
of ground zero in a tank specially fitted with rockets to which retrievable collectors were
fastened in order to gather soil samples from a distance.  This group made several sampling
excursions on 16 and 17 July.  The tank carried two personnel (a driver and a passenger) each
trip.  No member of this party received a radiation exposure of more than 1 roentgen (1).

Five other men from the earth-sampling group entered the ground zero area in a second tank,
lined with lead for radiation protection.  The tank, carrying the driver and one passenger,
made five trips into the ground zero area to retrieve soil samples on 16 and 17 July.  On two
trips, the tank passed over ground zero; on the others, it approached to within about 90 meters
of ground zero.  The men scooped up soil samples through a trap door in the bottom of the tank.
One driver who made three trips into the ground zero area received the highest exposure, 15
roentgens (1).

This lead-lined tank was also used by ten men to observe the radiation area.  These men, traveling
two at a time, made five trips into the area on shot-day but never approached closer than 1,370
meters to ground zero.  The highest exposure among these ten men was 0.3 roentgens (1).

The next party to approach ground zero consisted of a photographer and a radiological safety
monitor.  Wearing protective clothing and respirators, the two men were about 730 meters northwest
of ground zero photographing "JUMBO" from 1100 to 1200 hours.  "JUMBO," shown in figure 2-7,
was a massive container built to contain the high-explosive detonation of the TRINITY device
and to allow recovery of the fissionable material if the device failed to produce a nuclear
detonation.  The plan to use "JUMBO," however, was abandoned when the scientists concluded
that a fairly large nuclear explosion was certain.  The container remained on the ground near
the shot-tower during the detonation.  Both the photographer and the monitor received an estimated
radiation exposure between 0.5 and 1 roentgen (1; 7).

The last party to "go in" on shot-day consisted of six men retrieving neutron detectors.  They
entered the test area at 1430 hours.  Three of the men went to a point 730 meters south of
ground zero to pull out cables carrying neutron detectors located 550 meters south of ground
zero.  The group wore protective clothing and respirators and spent about 30 minutes in the
area.  The remaining three men drove as close as 320 meters southwest of ground zero to retrieve
neutron detectors. They got out of their vehicle only once, at about 460 meters from ground
zero, and spent a total of about ten minutes making this trip through the area.  Each man's
radiation exposure measured less than 1 roentgen (1).

Most of the soldiers of the evacuation detachment remained in their bivouac area near Guard
Post 2.  According to a report written by the detachment commander, a reinforced platoon was
sent to the town of Bingham, about 29 kilometers northeast of the test site, while offsite
radiological safety monitors surveyed the area.  The evacuation detachment was dismissed at
1300 hours on shot-day when it became evident from offsite monitoring that evacuations would
not be undertaken.  The detachment returned to LASL at 0400 on 17 July (15).

Two B-29 aircraft from Kirtland Field, Albuquerque, New Mexico, participated in post-shot events.
Their planned mission was to pass over the test area shortly before the explosion to simulate
a bomb drop.  After the TRINITY device had been detonated, the aircraft would circle near ground
zero, while the men onboard would measure the atmospheric effects of the nuclear explosion.
This would enable them to determine whether a delivery aircraft would be endangered. However,
because of bad weather on shot-day, Dr. Oppenheimer canceled the aircraft's flight in the ground
zero area.  Instead, the two B-29s, each with 12 men onboard, flew along the perimeter of the
bombing range and observed the shot from a distance of 19 to 29 kilometers.  Among those observers
was a Navy captain who was also the MED Chief of Ordnance (6; 12; 13).