The name of Mr. "Pendhrergrast," as the Irish servants generally called him, was quite unknown
to the owner of Hap House, as was also that of Mr. Mollett, which had been brought up to him
the first of the two; but Owen began to think that there must be something very unusual in
a day so singularly ushered in to him. Callers at Hap House on business were very few, unless
when tradesmen in want of money occasionally dropped in upon him. But now that he was so summoned
Owen began to bestir himself with his boots and breeches. A gentleman's costume for a hunting
morning is always a slow one--sometimes so slow and tedious as to make him think of forswearing
such articles of dress for all future ages. But now he did bestir himself,--in a moody melancholy
sort of manner; for his manner in all things latterly had become moody and melancholy.

In the mean time Captain Donnellan and the two strangers sat almost in silence in the dining-room.
The Captain, though he did not perhaps know much of things noticeable in this world, did know
something of a gentleman, and was therefore not led away, as poor Thady had been, by Aby's
hat and rings. He had stared Aby full in the face when he entered the room and having explained
that he was not the master of the house, had not vouchsafed another word. But then he had also
seen that Mr. Prendergast was of a different class, and had said a civil word or two, asking
him to come near the fire, and suggesting that Owen would be down in less than five minutes.
"But the old cock wouldn't crow," as he afterwards remarked to his friend, and so they all
three sat in silence, the Captain being very busy about his knees, as hunting gentlemen sometimes
are when they come down to bachelor breakfasts.

And then at last Owen Fitzgerald entered the room. He has been described as a handsome man,
but in no dress did he look so well as when equipped for a day's sport. And what dress that
Englishmen ever wear is so handsome as this? Or we may perhaps say what other dress does English
custom allow them that is in any respect not the reverse of handsome. We have come to be so
dingy,--in our taste I was going to say, but it is rather in our want of taste,--so careless
of any of the laws of beauty in the folds and lines and hues of our dress, so opposed to grace
in the arrangement of our persons, that it is not permitted to the ordinary English gentleman
to be anything else but ugly. Chimney-pot hats, swallow-tailed coats, and pantaloons that fit
nothing, came creeping in upon us, one after the other, while the Georges reigned--creeping
in upon us with such pictures as we painted under the reign of West, and such houses as we
built under the reign of Nash, till the English eye required to rest on that which was constrained,
dull, and graceless. For the last two score of years it has come to this, that if a man go
in handsome attire he is a popinjay and a vain fool; and as it is better to be ugly than to
be accounted vain I would not counsel a young friend to leave the beaten track on the strength
of his own judgment. But not the less is the beaten track to be condemned, and abandoned, and
abolished, if such be in any way possible. Beauty is good in all things; and I cannot but think
that those old Venetian senators, and Florentine men of Council, owed somewhat of their country's
pride and power to the manner in which they clipped their beards and wore their flowing garments.

But an Englishman may still make himself brave when he goes forth into the hunting field. Custom
there allows him colour, and garments that fit his limbs. Strength is the outward characteristic
of manhood, and at the covert-side he may appear strong. Look at men as they walk along Fleet-street,
and ask yourself whether any outward sign of manhood or strength can be seen there. And of
gentle manhood outward dignity should be the trade mark. I will not say that such outward dignity
is incompatible with a black hat and plaid trousers, for the eye instructed by habit will search
out dignity for itself wherever it may truly exist, let it be hidden by what vile covering
it may. But any man who can look well at his club, will look better as he clusters round the
hounds; while many a one who is comely there, is mean enough as he stands on the hearth-rug
before his club fire. In my mind men, like churches and books, and women too, should be brave,
not mean, in their outward garniture.

And Owen, as I have said, was brave as he walked into his dining-room. The sorrow which weighed
on his heart had not wrinkled his brow, but had given him a set dignity of purpose. His tall
figure, which his present dress allowed to be seen, was perfect in its symmetry of strength.
His bright chestnut hair clustered round his forehead, and his eye shone like that of a hawk.
They must have been wrong who said that he commonly spent his nights over the wine-cup. That
pleasure always leaves its disgusting traces round the lips; and Owen Fitzgerald's lips were
as full and lusty as Apollo's. Mollett, as he saw him, was stricken with envy. "If I could
only get enough money out of this affair to look like that," was his first thought, as his
eye fell on the future heir; not understanding, poor wretch that he was, that all the gold
of California could not bring him one inch nearer to the goal he aimed at. I think I have said
before, that your silk purse will not get itself made out of that coarse material with which
there are so many attempts to manufacture that article. And Mr. Prendergast rose from his chair
when he saw him, with a respect that was almost involuntary. He had not heard men speak well
of Owen Fitzgerald;--not that ill-natured things had been said by the family at Castle Richmond,
but circumstances had prevented the possibility of their praising him. If a relative or friend
be spoken of without praise, he is, in fact, censured. From what he had heard he had certainly
not expected a man who would look so noble as did the owner of Hap House, who now came forward
to ask him his business.

Both Mr. Prendergast and Aby Mollett rose at the same time. Since the arrival of the latter
gentleman, Aby had been wondering who he might be, but no idea that he was that lawyer from
Castle Richmond had entered his head. That he was a stranger like himself, Aby saw; but he
did not connect him with his own business. Indeed he had not yet realized the belief, though
his father had done so, that the truth would be revealed by those at Castle Richmond to him
at Hap House. His object now was that the old gentleman should say his say and begone, leaving
him to dispose of the other young man in the top-boots as best he might. But then, as it happened,
that was also Mr. Prendergast's line of action.

"Gentlemen," said Owen, "I beg your pardon for keeping you waiting; but the fact is that I
am so seldom honoured in this way in a morning, that I was hardly ready. Donnellan, there's
the tea; don't mind waiting. These gentlemen will perhaps join us." And then he looked hard
at Aby, as though he trusted in Providence that no such profanation would be done to his tablecloth.

"Thank you, I have breakfasted," said Mr. Prendergast.

"And so 'ave I," said Aby, who had eaten a penny loaf in the car, and would have been delighted
to sit down at that rich table. But he was a little beside himself, and not able to pluck up
courage for such an effort.

"I don't know whether you two gentlemen have come about the same business," said Owen, looking
from one to the other.

"No," said Mr. Prendergast, very confidently, but not very correctly. "I wish to speak to you,
Mr. Fitzgerald, for a few minutes: but my business with you is quite private."

"So is mine," said Aby, "very private; very private indeed."

"Well, gentlemen, I have just half an hour in which to eat my breakfast, attend to business,
get on my horse and leave the house. Out of that twenty-five minutes are very much at your
service. Donnellan, I beg your pardon. Do pitch into the broiled bones while they are hot,
never mind me. And now, gentlemen, if you will walk with me into the other room. First come
first served: that I suppose should be the order." And he opened the door and stood with it
ajar in his hand.

"I will wait, Mr. Fitzgerald, if you please," said Mr. Prendergast; and as he spoke he motioned
Mollett with his hand to go to the door.

"Oh! I can wait, sir, I'd rather wait, sir. I would indeed," said Aby. "My business is a little
particular, and if you'll go on, sir, I'll take up with the gen'leman as soon as you've done, sir."

But Mr. Prendergast was accustomed to have his own way. "I should prefer that you should go
first, sir. And to tell the truth, Mr. Fitzgerald, what I have to say to you will take some
time. It is of much importance, to yourself and to others; and I fear that you will probably
find that it will detain you from your amusement to-day."

Owen looked black as he heard this. The hounds were going to draw a covert of his own; and
he was not in the habit of remaining away from the drawing of any coverts belonging to himself
or others, on any provocation whatever. "That will be rather hard," said he, "considering that
I do not know any more than the man in the moon what you've come about."

"You shall be the sole judge yourself, sir, of the importance of my business with you," said
Mr. Prendergast.

"Well, Mr.--I forget your name," said Owen.

"My name's Mollett," said Aby. Whereupon Mr. Prendergast looked up at him very sharply, but
he said nothing.--He said nothing, but he looked very sharply indeed. He now knew well who
this man was, and guessed with tolerable accuracy the cause of his visit. But, nevertheless,
at the moment he said nothing.

"Come along, then, Mr. Mollett. I hope your affair is not likely to be a very long one also.
Perhaps you'll excuse my having a cup of tea sent in to me as you talk to me. There is nothing
like saving time when such very important business is on the tapis. Donnellan, send Thady in
with a cup of tea, like a good fellow. Now, Mr. Mollett."

Mr. Mollett rose slowly from his chair, and followed his host. He would have given all he possessed
in the world, and that was very little, to have had the coast clear. But in such an emergency,
what was he to do? By the time he had reached the door of the drawing-room, he had all but
made up his mind to tell Fitzgerald that, seeing there was so much other business on hand this
morning at Hap House, this special piece of business of his must stand over. But then, how
could he go back to Cork empty-handed? So he followed Owen into the room, and there opened
his budget with what courage he had left to him.

Captain Donnellan, as he employed himself on the broiled bones, twice invited Mr. Prendergast
to assist him; but in vain. Donnellan remained there, waiting for Owen, till eleven; and then
got on his horse. "You'll tell Fitzgerald, will you, that I've started? He'll see nothing of
to-day's hunt; that's clear."

"I don't think he will," said Mr. Prendergast.

CHAPTER XXIV

AFTER BREAKFAST AT HAP HOUSE

"I don't think he will," said Mr. Prendergast; and as he spoke, Captain Donnellan's ear could
detect that there was something approaching to sarcasm in the tone of the old man's voice.
The Captain was quite sure that his friend would not be even at the heel of the hunt that day;
and without further compunction proceeded to fasten his buckskin gloves round his wrists. The
meet was so near to them, that they had both intended to ride their own hunters from the door;
and the two nags were now being led up and down upon the gravel.

But at this moment a terrible noise was heard to take place in the hall. There was a rush and
crushing there which made even Mr. Prendergast to jump from his chair, and drove Captain Donnellan
to forget his gloves and run to the door.

It was as though all the winds of heaven were being driven down the passage, and as though
each separate wind was shod with heavy-heeled boots. Captain Donnellan ran to the door, and
Mr. Prendergast with slower steps followed him. When it was opened, Owen was to be seen in
the hall, apparently in a state of great excitement; and the gentleman whom he had lately asked
to breakfast,--he was to be seen also, in a position of unmistakable discomfort. He was at
that moment proceeding, with the utmost violence, into a large round bed of bushes, which stood
in the middle of the great sweep before the door of the house, his feet just touching the ground
as he went; and then, having reached his bourne, he penetrated face foremost into the thicket,
and in an instant disappeared. He had been kicked out of the house. Owen Fitzgerald had taken
him by the shoulders, with a run along the passage and hall, and having reached the door, had
applied the flat of his foot violently to poor Aby's back, and sent him flying down the stone
steps. And now, as Captain Donnellan and Mr. Prendergast stood looking on, Mr. Mollett junior
buried himself altogether out of sight among the shrubs.

"You have done for that fellow, at any rate, Owen," said Captain Donnellan, glancing for a
moment at Mr. Prendergast. "I should say that he will never get out of that alive."

"Not if he wait till I pick him out," said Owen, breathing very hard after his exertion. "An
infernal scoundrel! And now, Mr. Prendergast, if you are ready, sir, I am." It was as much
as he could do to finish these few words with that sang froid which he desired to assume, so
violent was his attempt at breathing after his late exercise.

It was impossible not to conceive the idea that, as one disagreeable visitor had been disposed
of in a somewhat summary fashion, so might be the other also. Mr. Prendergast did not look
like a man who was in the habit of leaving gentlemen's houses in the manner just now adopted
by Mr. Mollett; but nevertheless, as they had come together, both unwished for and unwelcome,
Captain Donnellan did for a moment bethink himself whether there might not be more of such
fun, if he remained there on the spot. At any rate, it would not do for him to go to the hunt
while such deeds as these were being done. It might be that his assistance would be wanted.

Mr. Prendergast smiled, with a saturnine and somewhat bitter smile--the nearest approach to
a laugh in which he was known to indulge,--for the same notion came also into his head. "He
has disposed of him, and now he is thinking how he will dispose of me." Such was Mr. Prendergast's
thought about the matter; and that made him smile. And then, too, he was pleased at what he
had seen. That this Mollett was the son of that other Mollett, with whom he had been closeted
at Castle Richmond, was plain enough; it was plain enough also to him, used as he was to trace
out in his mind the courses of action which men would follow, that Mollett junior, having heard
of his father's calamitous failure at Castle Richmond, had come down to Hap House to see what
he could make out of the hitherto unconscious heir. It had been matter of great doubt with
Mr. Prendergast, when he first heard young Mollett's name mentioned, whether or no he would
allow him to make his attempt. He, Mr. Prendergast, could by a word have spoilt the game; but
acting, as he was forced to act, on the spur of the moment, he resolved to permit Mr. Mollett
junior to play out his play. He would be yet in time to prevent any ill result to Mr. Fitzgerald,
should that gentleman be weak enough to succumb to any such ill results. As things had now
turned out Mr. Prendergast rejoiced that Mr. Mollett junior had been permitted to play out
his play. "And now, Mr. Prendergast, if you are ready, I am," said Owen.

"Perhaps we had better first pick up the gentleman among the trees," said Mr. Prendergast.
And he and Captain Donnellan went down into the bushes.

"Do as you please about that," said Owen. "I have touched him once and shall not touch him
again." And he walked back into the dining-room.

One of the grooms who were leading the horses had now gone to the assistance of the fallen
hero; and as Captain Donnellan also had already penetrated as far as Aby's shoulders, Mr. Prendergast,
thinking that he was not needed, returned also to the house. "I hope he is not seriously hurt,"
he said.

"Not he," said Owen. "Those sort of men are as used to be kicked, as girls are to be kissed;
and it comes as naturally to them. But anything short of having his bones broken will be less
than he deserves."

"May I ask what was the nature of his offence?"

Owen remained silent for a moment, looking his guest full in the face. "Well; not exactly,"
said he. "He has been talking of people of whom he knows nothing, but it would not be well
for me to repeat what he has said to a perfect stranger."

"Quite right, Mr. Fitzgerald; it would not be well. But there can be no harm in my repeating
it to you. He came here to get money from you for certain tidings which he brought; tidings
which if true would be of great importance to you. As I take it, however, he has altogether
failed in his object."

"And how do you come to know all this, sir?"

"Merely from having heard that man mention his own name. I also have come with the same tidings;
and as I ask for no money for communicating them, you may believe them to be true on my telling."

"What tidings?" asked Owen, with a frown, and an angry jerk in his voice. No remotest notion
had yet come in upon his mind that there was any truth in the story that had been told him.
He had looked upon it all as a lie, and had regarded Mollett as a sorry knave who had come
to him with a poor and low attempt at raising a few pounds. And even now he did not believe.
Mr. Prendergast's words had been too sudden to produce belief of so great a fact, and his first
thought was that an endeavour was being made to fool him.

"Those tidings which that man has told you," said Mr. Prendergast, solemnly. "That you should
not have believed them from him shows only your discretion. But from me you may believe them.
I have come from Castle Richmond, and am here as a messenger from Sir Thomas,--from Sir Thomas
and from his son. When the matter became clear to them both, then it was felt that you also
should be made acquainted with it."

Owen Fitzgerald now sat down, and looked up into the lawyer's face, staring at him. I may say
that the power of saying much was for the moment taken away from him by the words that he heard.
What! was it really possible that that title, that property, that place of honour in the country
was to be his when one frail old man should drop away? And then again was it really true that
all this immeasurable misery was to fall--had fallen--upon that family whom he had once known
so well? It was but yesterday that he had been threatening all manner of evil to his cousin
Herbert; and had his threats been proved true so quickly? But there was no shadow of triumph
in his feelings. Owen Fitzgerald was a man of many faults. He was reckless, passionate, prone
to depreciate the opinion of others, extravagant in his thoughts and habits, ever ready to
fight, both morally and physically, those who did not at a moment's notice agree with him.
He was a man who would at once make up his mind that the world was wrong when the world condemned
him, and who would not in compliance with any argument allow himself to be so. But he was not
avaricious, nor cruel, nor self-seeking, nor vindictive. In his anger he could pronounce all
manner of ill things against his enemy, as he had pronounced some ill things against Herbert;
but it was not in him to keep up a sustained wish that those ill things should really come
to pass. This news which he now heard, and which he did not yet fully credit, struck him with
awe, but created no triumph in his bosom. He realized the catastrophe as it affected his cousins
of Castle Richmond rather than as it affected himself.

"Do you mean to say that Lady Fitzgerald--" and then he stopped himself. He had not the courage
to ask the question which was in his mind. Could it really be the case that Lady Fitzgerald,--that
she whom all the world had so long honoured under that name, was in truth the wife of that
man's father,--of the father of that wretch whom he had just spurned from his house? The tragedy
was so deep that he could not believe in it.

"We fear that it is so, Mr. Fitzgerald," said Mr. Prendergast. "That it certainly is so I cannot
say. And therefore, if I may take the liberty to give you counsel, I would advise you not to
make too certain of this change in your prospects."

"Too certain!" said he, with a bitter laugh. "Do you suppose then that I would wish to see
all this ruin accomplished? Heavens and earth! Lady Fitzgerald--! I cannot believe it."

And then Captain Donnellan also returned to the room. "Fitzgerald," said he, "what the mischief
are we to do with this fellow? He says that he can't walk, and he bleeds from his face like a pig."

"What fellow? Oh, do what you like with him. Here: give him a pound note, and let him go to
the d----. And Donnellan, for heaven's sake go to Cecilstown at once. Do not wait for me. I
have business that will keep me here all day."

"But I do not know what to do with this fellow that's bleeding," said the captain, piteously,
as he took the proffered note. "If he puts up with a pound note for what you've done to him,
he's softer than what I take him for."

"He will be very glad to be allowed to escape without being given up to the police," said Mr.
Prendergast.

"But I don't know what to do with him," said Captain Donnellan. "He says that he can't stand."

"Then lay him down on the dunghill," said Owen Fitzgerald; "but for heaven's sake do not let
him interrupt me. And, Donnellan, you will altogether lose the day if you stay any longer."
Whereupon the captain, seeing that in very truth he was not wanted, did take himself off, casting
as he went one farewell look on Aby as he lay groaning on the turf on the far side of the tuft
of bushes.

"He's kilt intirely, I'm thinking, yer honor," said Thady, who was standing over him on the
other side.

"He'll come to life again before dinner-time," said the Captain.

"Oh, in course he'll do that, yer honor," said Thady; and then added sotto voce, to himself,
as the captain rode down the avenue, "Faix, an' I don't know about that. Shure an' it's the
masther has a heavy hand." And then Thady stood for a while perplexed, endeavouring to reanimate
Aby by a sight of the pound note which he held out visibly between his thumb and fingers.

And now Mr. Prendergast and Owen were again alone. "And what am I to do?" said Owen, after
a pause of a minute or two; and he asked the question with a serious, solemn voice.

"Just for the present--for the next day or two--I think that you should do nothing. As soon
as the first agony of this time is over at Castle Richmond, I think that Herbert should see
you. It would be very desirable that he and you should take in concert such proceedings as
will certainly become necessary. The absolute proof of the truth of this story must be obtained.
You understand, I hope, Mr. Fitzgerald, that the case still admits of doubt."

Owen nodded his head impatiently, as though it were needless on the part of Mr. Prendergast
to insist upon this. He did not wish to take it for true a moment sooner than was necessary.

"It is my duty to give you this caution. Many lawyers--I presume you know that I am a lawyer--"

"I did not know it," said Owen; "but it makes no difference."

"Thank you; that's very kind," said Mr. Prendergast; but the sarcasm was altogether lost upon
his hearer. "Some lawyers, as I was saying, would in such a case have advised their clients
to keep all their suspicions, nay all their knowledge, to themselves. Why play the game of
an adversary? they would ask. But I have thought it better that we should have no adversary."

"And you will have none," said Owen; "none in me, at least."

"I am much gratified in so perceiving, and in having such evidence that my advice has not been
indiscreet. It occurred to me that if you received the first intimation of these circumstances
from other sources, you would be bound on your own behalf to employ an agent to look after
your own interests."

"I should have done nothing of the kind," said Owen.

"Ah, but, my dear young friend, in such a case it would have been your duty to do so."

"Then I should have neglected my duty. And do you tell Herbert this from me, that let the truth
be what it may, I shall never interrupt him in his title or his property. It is not there that
I shall look either for justice or revenge. He will understand what I mean."

But Mr. Prendergast did not, by any means; nor did he enter into the tone of Owen Fitzgerald's
mind. They were both just men, but just in an essentially different manner. The justice of
Mr. Prendergast had come of thought and education. As a young man, when entering on his profession,
he was probably less just than he was now. He had thought about matters of law and equity,
till thought had shown to him the beauty of equity as it should be practised,--often by the
aid of law, and not unfrequently in spite of law. Such was the justice of Mr. Prendergast.
That of Owen Fitzgerald had come of impulse and nature, and was the justice of a very young
man rather than of a very wise one. That title and property did not, as he felt, of justice
belong to him, but to his cousin. What difference could it make in the true justice of things,
whether or no that wretched man was still alive whom all the world had regarded as dead? In
justice he ought to be dead. Now that this calamity of the man's life had fallen upon Sir Thomas
and Lady Fitzgerald and his cousin Herbert, it would not be for him to aggravate it by seizing
upon a heritage which might possibly accrue to him under the letter of the world's law, but
which could not accrue to him under heaven's law. Such was the justice of Owen Fitzgerald;
and we may say this of it in its dispraise, as comparing it with that other justice, that whereas
that of Mr. Prendergast would wear for ever, through ages and ages, that other justice of Owen's
would hardly have stood the pull of a ten years' struggle. When children came to him, would
he not have thought of what might have been theirs by right; and then have thought of what
ought to be theirs by right; and so on?

But in speaking of justice, he had also spoken of revenge, and Mr. Prendergast was altogether
in the dark. What revenge? He did not know that poor Owen had lost a love, and that Herbert
had found it. In the midst of all the confused thoughts which this astounding intelligence
had brought upon him, Owen still thought of his love. There Herbert had robbed him--robbed
him by means of his wealth; and in that matter he desired justice--justice or revenge. He wanted
back his love. Let him have that and Herbert might yet be welcome to his title and estates.

