It was difficult to find a shelter for the night; but a kind fellow-traveller assisted us,
and at length we were pressed into a miserable dirty room, with only a board for a bedstead.

At Patras we had abundance of consultation, whether to undertake the journey to Corinth and
Athens by land, or to encounter the gulf. We concluded to venture on the latter, and contracted
with the captain of a little boat to depart at five the next morning. He deceived us by not
sailing at the time proposed; but we made an agreement with other sailors to go off in the
evening, hoping to get to Corinth the next morning: but, after tossing all night, we found
in the morning the ship had only made twenty miles; and about mid-day the captain declared
he could not get to Corinth, and must put into a small port on the opposite side of the gulf,
called Galaxidi, and wait for better weather. We were so exhausted as to feel thankful in the
prospect of being once more on land. Nothing can be more comfortless than these small Greek
vessels; in the cabin you can neither stand nor lie at full length.

After some difficulty in getting on shore, we were led to the khan, a very large room with
a fire in one corner for boiling water, and a wine store; and round the side were benches which
served for sitting by day, and on which the traveller spreads his mattress for the night, if
he has one; if not, he must go without. We were desired to mount a ladder to a loft like a
corn-floor, badly tiled in, and divided into four parts by boards about five feet high. The
one division of this place assigned to us had no door, and when the windows were shut, which
were of wood, there was no light what shone through the tiling or was admitted between the
boards. The place was soon furnished, for the boy brought us a mat and spread it on the floor,
which was all we had a right to expect; but as we seemed to be visitors who could pay pretty
well, they brought also a rough wooden table and three wooden stools.

2nd.--Galaxidi is in ruins, presenting only mud cottages and temporary wooden houses; ships
also are in building.

4th.--This morning we walked among the huts of the town, and found an old man keeping school
near the ruins of his own school-room, which had been destroyed by the Turks. It happened to
be his dinner-time, and he was seated cross-legged on a stone, with a footstool before him,
enjoying a few olives and a morsel of bread. Around him stood his ragged pupils, reading from
leaves torn out of old books, some of which were so worn and dirty that the poor boys could
scarcely discover what they had once contained. The weather was by no means warm, yet we could
not wonder at his choosing the open air for the place of instruction, when we saw his dwelling,
which was a mud hut not quite nine feet square, with no opening for light but through the doorway.
In this hovel he taught his forty scholars when the inclemency of the weather did not permit
their being out of doors. The grey-headed father was surprised that his humble company had
attracted the notice of strangers; but, seeing the interest we manifested in his calling, he
inquired for a New Testament, which we gladly furnished, with the addition of some tracts to
such of the children as could read them. This sight was gratifying to us as showing a disposition
to teach and to learn, even under the most disadvantageous circumstances.

Our quarters at the khan became more uncomfortable; the people were so uncivil they would hardly
give us cold water without grumbling. The second night we witnessed one of the most dreadful
storms we ever remember to have seen. Violent gusts of wind shook our desolate abode, while
the rain poured down in torrents and found entrance in various parts of our apartment.

They intended, as we have seen, to go to Athens by way of Corinth, and when they were disappointed
of sailing to that city, and thrown upon the opposite shore of the gulf, they still seem to
have supposed it impossible to reach the capital by any other route.

5th.--Being, says John Yeardley, on the contrary side of the gulf, and thus deprived of helping
ourselves by means of horses, we gave up all hope of reaching Athens, and thought we must of
necessity return to Patras. We therefore inquired for a vessel to take us thither; but never
shall I forget my feelings of horror while trying to contract with a man for a boat. I said
in my heart, O that I might be permitted to try the fleece once more in turning our faces towards
Athens. The man was exorbitant in his demands, and it was too late to reach Patras without
risking the night on the sea. To stay where we were was next to impossible without serious
injury, especially to my dear Martha. Strong indeed was our united prayer for direction and
help in this time of distress, and ever-blessed be the name of our adorable Lord who heard
and answered our prayer. Out of the depths of distress a little light sprung up, and we thought
if we could take a boat and cross over to Scala, a little port on the opposite side of the
creek, we might then take mules to [Castri the ancient] Delphi, and if not able to proceed
further on our way, the change we hoped would be use to M.Y. We did make the effort, and were
favored to get to Scala, where we found only a few scattered mud houses; but on landing, there
was a change of feeling immediately experienced. We were rescued from ship-builders and sailors,
the vilest of the vile, and placed among a simple country people.

The master of the custom-house, to whom we had a few lines of recommendation, invited us to
his house and gave us coffee. He provided us with four mules; three for the interpreter and
ourselves, and the fourth for the baggage. It was about eight miles, or two and a half hours'
ride, to Delphi; and no sooner had we begun to feel the mountain air than my dear M. began
to revive. We had to climb precipices where nothing but mules could have carried us. At the
foot of the mountain we came in company with two camels, which was a new sight to us.

The situation of Delphi is the most beautiful that eyes can behold: mountains of rock, such
as we never before saw, and in the back ground the far-famed Parnassus, covered with snow.
The village consists of about one hundred cottages, some of them built in the rock. We were
conducted to one of the best of these rustic dwellings, and met with a very friendly reception
from the inmates. The house consisted of two rooms, and we were offered the use of one of them;
they furnished us with mattresses laid upon a sort of dresser, where we slept much better than
for many previous nights; even the hen and her thirteen chickens under our bed did not disturb
us. The novelty of the visiters soon brought in several of the neighbors, who did not leave
us, even while we took our tea. As there was a good feeling, we thought it well to improve
the opportunity, and inquired who could read. The master of the house, a sensible man, said
there were only about twenty in the village who know anything of letters, but that he could
both read and write, for his father was a priest.

After tea we produced a New Testament and the book of Genesis, and our interpreter read aloud
the first two chapters of Genesis. Our host had never seen the Scriptures in his own language,
and we think we never beheld a countenance more full of delight and intelligence than his was
during the reading. After a short explanation of what had been read, and a word of exhortation,
we thought to close; but the company were so pleased with hearing the account of the creation
and fall of man [from the sacred record itself], that they requested us to read more. I desired
them to ask any questions on the subject they might wish; and the first which our host put
was, What kind of tree it was, the fruit of which Adam was forbidden to eat? We answered that
it was translated in our language apple. He said they thought it was a fig. We told them it
might be a fig, or it might be an apple; but that the object of the Almighty was to try Adam's
obedience. They at once agreed to this; and the master of the house wisely observed, Jesus
Christ came to restore to us what was lost by Adam's transgression. He then said, It would
have been better if Adam, after his transgression, instead of hiding himself, had confessed
his sin to God, and begged his forgiveness. We all agreed that it was a natural act for man,
in his fallen state, to wish to seek excuse, rather than to confess his sin and repent. We
then made some remarks on the prophecy of the Saviour in the third chapter of Genesis, and
ability was given us to preach the Gospel of life and salvation. All hearts seemed touched,
and our own overflowed with gratitude. We may in truth say, Our Heavenly Father has plucked
our feet out of a horrible pit and out of the miry clay, and set them upon a rock, and put
a new song into our mouth, even praise to his glorious name. On considering afterwards our
situation, we could not but behold the hand of a gracious Providence which had led us to this
spot; had we attempted to go by Corinth to Athens, we should [as they afterwards learned] have
been stopped by the waters, and have missed seeing this interesting people; but from hence
the way was passable, and only four days' journey by land.

After dinner we walked through the village up to the rock. We came to a fountain where several
women were washing; one of them, a young-looking person, suddenly left her companions, and
with hasty step and entreating air advanced towards us, as we supposed to ask something; but
she bowed her head almost to the ground, and then kissed our hands; after which she withdrew
in a cheerful and diffident manner. The reason of this salutation was, that the young woman
had lately been married, and it was customary for the last bride of the village to kiss the
hands of strangers.

The temple of Apollo once occupied nearly half an acre of ground: a great many of its marble
pillars are still to be seen, half buried by the plough, and corn growing over them. About
a hundred yards from this temple is the cave in the rock from whence the priestess pronounced
the oracle. Among the curiosities of this wonderful place, the tombs in the rocks are not the
least remarkable. They are built of the most beautiful white marble; the entrance is by a large
archway, and round the circle are several recesses in the stone, one above another, where the
dead had evidently been deposited. They illustrate the history of the maniac dwelling among
the tombs (Mark v. 3.), for these caves formed a perfect sort of house in which persons might
dwell.

8th.--We were not able to leave Delphi on account of the high wind with some rain. In the evening
we again enjoyed our Scripture reading on the hearth. We continued the book of Genesis, and
our host inquired whether those who died before the birth of the Saviour were lost. He was
informed they were saved through faith in the promise. He had supposed they went into hell,
and that when Christ came he released them. We asked him if Enoch, who walked with God and
was translated, could have been sent to hell. Of this he knew nothing, never having read the
Scriptures.

9th.--This morning we procured four mules and four men, and proceeded on our pilgrimage towards
Livadia, thirty-three miles from Delphi. Our kind host recommended us to the special care of
one of the muleteers, who put his hand to his heart, and feelingly accepted the trust. We were
most of the day winding round Parnassus, whose height above us was tremendous. The road was
frightful; over rocks, waters, and swampy ground; we could hardly have believed it possible
to pass through the places where our mules penetrated. The muleteer performed his trust faithfully,
rendering us all the assistance in his power. On parting we presented him with some tracts;
he could read, and was much gratified with the gift.

At Livadia we were badly lodged, in a smoky room, and suffered much from extreme fatigue; but
we found ourselves with an interesting family, to whom we read the Scriptures, seated with
them on the floor; and we could not but feel grateful to our Divine Master, for leading us
among those who were thirsting to receive the Holy Scriptures in a language they could understand.

10th.--We travelled on horses through a comparatively flat country, despoiled of all its verdure
by the ruthless hand of war. The evening was wet; we reached the once celebrated Thebes in
the dark, and were glad to take shelter in a smoky room, in the first house that could receive
us. The situation is fine, but the present town occupies only the part which was the fortress
of ancient Thebes.

11th.--This day we had much mountain country to pass through. Every tree we could see was either
partly burnt or partly cut away. Towards the end of our day's travel we went through an immense
wood, difficult of passage, on leaving which the Gulf of Aegina appeared in view. We rested
for the night at a little settlement of Albanians near the coast. We obtained shelter in the
cottage of an old woman, who seemed a little startled at the appearance of strangers, whose
language she could not understand. Concluding, however, that we had the common wants of nature,
and having no bread to offer us, she quickly prepared a little meal, made a cake, and baked
it on the hearth under the ashes. We made signs to be furnished with a vessel in which we might
prepare a little chocolate, our frequent repast under such circumstances; and, at length, a
very rough homely-looking pitcher was produced; but the greater difficulty was to find something
in which to boil the milk and water. After waiting till their own soup had been prepared, we
obtained the use of the saucepan. These difficulties overcome, we enjoyed our meal; and offered
some to a Greek woman who had walked beside our mules for the sake of company, on her dreary
journey to Athens; but she refused, with thanks, saying, I am not sick; for the Greeks seldom
take beverage of this sort, except when they are indisposed. As the inmates of this homely
cottage, as well as the neighbors, who usually come in to see travellers of our uncommon appearance,
did not understand Greek, we were deprived of the opportunity of reading the Holy Scriptures
to them, or of conversing with them on the subject of religion. All that we could do was to
prepare for rest, of which we stood in great need, having had a very fatiguing ride through
the woods to this place. The room in which we had taken shelter was also to be our sleeping-place,
in common with the old woman and her family and the Greek traveller; in another part of the
room were also a sheep and several other animals. We swept as clean as we could a space in
the neighborhood of the quiet sheep, and spread what bedding we had upon the mud floor, surrounding
it with our baggage, except our carpet-bags, which served us for pillows; and after commending
ourselves and the household to the protecting care of the great Shepherd of Israel, we obtained
some refreshing repose. (See Eastern Customs, pp. 17-19.)

12th.--We started with tired bones. After a pleasant ride of four hours the Acropolis of Athens
burst upon our view. The city is beautifully situated in a plain bounded by mountains, and
near to a rich grove of olive-trees, which has been spared amid the ravages of war. I felt,
says John Yeardley, low and contemplative; many and various thoughts crowded into my heart.
Every foot we set in Greece, we Bee desolation. I can scarcely believe that I am in the place
where the great Apostle of the Gentiles desired to know nothing but Christ crucified; and in
sight of Mars Hill, from which the same apostle preached to the Athenians the true God.

We reached the only inn in the town, much worn by fatigue and bad accommodation, yet very grateful
for having been preserved from any serious accident during our perilous journey, and under
a precious sense that it was in right ordering we persevered in coming to this place.

We introduced ourselves to the American missionaries, Hill and King, and met with a hearty
reception. The schools under their care are the most gratifying sight we have seen. J. Hill
and his wife have nearly 500 children on their list. We were much pleased with the arrangements
of the schools: the classification is the best I have ever seen, and the children exhibit intelligence
and thirst for instruction. The effect of Scriptural instruction on the minds of the Greek
children is very gratifying. A young girl whom the directors had taken into the school as an
assistant teacher, entered the family with a mind fortified in the superstitions taught in
her own church, observing scrupulously the feast and fast-days, the making the sign of the
cross before eating, and the kissing of pictures. The mistress wisely avoided interfering with
what the girl considered to be her religious duties; but after she had attended the Scriptural
reading and the family worship for a short time, the light of divine truth broke in upon her
heart; and as she embraced the substance of the religion of Jesus Christ, her attachment to
the superstitious forms became gradually weakened, until at length she left them altogether.
The mistress one day said to her, I observe you do not keep the fast-days, nor cross yourself
before eating, nor kiss the pictures. No, replied the child, I am convinced that making the
outward sign of the cross cannot purify the heart from sin; and as to meat and drink, I read
in the Scriptures, that it is not that which goeth into the mouth that defiles the man.

15th.--Visited the schools under the direction of Jonas King, of the Boston mission. He has
an academy for young men, and a school for mutual instruction, containing together 150. I think
the mode of Scripture lessons particularly efficient. The instruction given in the schools
at Athens seems more complete than in any we have visited during the journey. J.K. has service
in modern Greek three times on First-days, at which some of the young men attend, along with
other Greeks, but not many.

During our stay in this city we visited many Greek families, and distributed among them religious
tracts and portions of the Holy Scriptures, and exhorted them to the observance of their religious
duties, often calling their attention to those points in which their own practices are at variance
with the doctrine of Holy Scripture.

The ancient ruins are exceedingly grand, and raise mingled feelings in the heart not easily
described, but tending to humble the pride of human greatness. We saw the Temple of Theseus,
the prison of Socrates, the famous Temple of Minerva; but the spot that most nearly interested
us was Mars Hill, whose rocky mount was in view from lodgings, where we sat and conversed together
of the Apostle Paul preaching the true God; and in the sweet stillness which covered our spirits,
earnestly desired that the pure Gospel might again be freely preached and received throughout
this interesting but desolated country.

There are not more than sixty really good houses built in the town; but, including great and
small, there may be 1500 dwellings. It is settled that Athens shall be the seat of the Greek
government; and the young king, Otho, laid the foundation-stone of the new palace in his last
visit to this place.

18th.--Being anxious to get to Patras in time to sail by an English packet to Corfu, we set
off for the port. J. Hill met us, to see us embark in a boat for Kalimichi. The Greek sailors
have a superstition against sailing at any time but in the night; but after being deceived
by one captain, we prevailed, on another to set sail [in the daytime], in the full hope of
reaching Kalimichi the same evening. A favorable gale wafted us on for some time, but a slight
storm coming on, the cowardly captain ran us into a creek, and kept us tossing all the night
in his open boat. About eight o'clock the next morning we were favored to reach Kalimichi in
safety, where we procured mules and reached Corinth to dinner.

Here there are only a few houses standing in the midst of ruins. We took up our abode at the
only inn, from the windows of which we looked upon the busy scene of a fair. Our hearts were
not enlarged, as the great Apostle's was; for our spirits were clothed with mourning in contemplating
the darkness of the place. Many persons to whom we spoke could not read; and on offering a
Testament to the man of the inn he refused to receive it.

We pursued our travels, and at mid-day met with a trying detention from the muleteer having
neglected to obtain a permission. We were at length suffered to proceed, but arrived late at
a miserable khan, where we passed the night in a loft. This poor place could only furnish two
mules and a donkey, with a man to attend them; but we were encouraged to hope we should find
four horses about two hours further on; but here we were disappointed, and could get no horses
to proceed. We felt truly destitute, and took refuge in a loft from the scorching rays of the
sun. We had very little food with us, and saw no probability of quitting our desolate abode
till the next day at any rate. Thus situated we were endeavoring to be reconciled to our allotment,
when most unexpectedly, about two o'clock, we espied a small fishing-boat sailing towards Patras,
and immediately ran down to the shore, a considerable distance, to make signals to the boat-man,
and inquire whether he would convey us to Vostizza, a place within a day's journey of Patras.
We directly procured a mule to convey our baggage to the shore, and descended by a very rough
path to a creek where the boat lay to. Here we were again detained by the guard making great
difficulty in allowing the boatman to take passengers without a permit, which could only be
obtained in the town, so strict and perplexing are the regulations for travellers under the
new government. However, after detaining us an hour and causing us to lose most of the fair
wind, he suffered the man to take us. We sailed along pretty well for a time, when the wind
suddenly changed, and the boatman told us we could not get to Vostizza that night, but added
they would put us on shore where we should be within an hour's walk of it, and that we could
readily find a mule to carry our baggage. This we gladly accepted, and were soon landed and
on our way.

Although sick and weary on board, we seemed to receive new strength for our walk, and arrived
at Vostizza at about eight o'clock. Here our accommodation for the night was much like our
former lodging; for this large town has also been, burned by the enemy, and presents a scene
of ruins. We engaged horses for the next day to convey us to Patras, and were a little cheered
with the prospect of being near that place of attraction. The man of the house where we lodged
could not read, but informed us there was a school in the town of fifty boys. We saw a person
in the next shop writing, and offered him a Testament, which he very gratefully received, and
sent for the schoolmaster, who seemed much pleased with our offer to send him books and lessons.
We also gave books to several we met with, who began eagerly to read them aloud, and soon obtained
hearers, so that it became a highly interesting scene: boys who received tracts from us showed
them to others, and numbers crowded about us, even to the lust moment of our stay. If we had
had a thousand books we could have disposed of them. What a difference between this place and
poor Corinth!

Our trying journey through Greece has given us an opportunity of judging of the state of things,
and I hope will enable us to relieve some of their wants. It is cause of humble thankfulness
to the Father of mercies that he has preserved us in the midst of many dangers, and brought
us in safety so far back on our way with hearts filled with love and praise.

They arrived at Patras on the 22nd, but found that the English steamer had sailed two days
before. They employed the interval before the sailing of another packet in establishing a girls'
school, which was commenced soon after their departure. At Corfu they received information
of the opening of the school, conveyed in a letter from the sister of the English consul in
the following encouraging terms:--

I am sure you will be gratified to hear that the school which was established by your benevolent
exertions has been opened under the most favorable auspices. The first day we had twenty-two
girls; we have now forty-eight. Nothing can exceed the eagerness shown by the children to be
admitted, and their parents seem equally anxious to send them; with very few exceptions they
come clean, and on the whole are attentive and well behaved. Of the forty-eight there are only
nine who can read. The little Corfuot you recommended is first monitor, and of great use.

They reached Corfu on the 12th of the Fifth Month, and were kindly accommodated at the office
of the Commissary Ramsay.

Immediately on our arrival at Corfu, our young friend the Count Sardina renewed his visits.
We saw him almost daily; our conversations were often truly spiritual; he opened his heart
to us, and we rejoiced to believe that he had attained to a degree of living faith in his Redeemer.

It will be recollected that their inability to collect the inhabitants in a meeting for worship
was a source of discouragement to John and Martha Yeardley in their former visit to Corfu.
Now, on revisiting this island, they had the satisfaction of holding two meetings for worship
with Isaac Lowndes' congregation.

6 mo. 1.--Isaac Lowndes had now obtained leave to hold his meeting for worship in the large
school-room, and I felt at liberty to propose having an opportunity to address the congregation.
This he gladly accepted, and gave notice of our intention. It was pretty well attended, but
not full; a good feeling prevailed.

15th.--We had another meeting with the little company who meet in the school-room. The room
was better filled than on the former occasion: it was a precious season of divine favor; utterance
was given to preach the word, and I trust there were some into whose hearts it found entrance.

A few days before we left the island, I.L. took us to visit the Jewish Rabbi, who, though full
of argument, appears extremely dark and bewildered, dwelling on mysterious words whose interpretation
is confined to the rabbinical office. He said they looked for a temporal king, who should give
a temporal kingdom to Israel. It was a truly painful visit, and we left him with the desire
that he might be instructed even out of his own law, which, if properly understood, would prove
as a schoolmaster to bring him to Christ.

After spending about five weeks at Corfu on this second visit, they again crossed the Adriatic
to Ancona.

CHAPTER XIII.

THE THIRD CONTINENTAL JOURNEY.

1833-4.

PART III.--THE RETURN FROM GREECE.

Of the numerous letters which John and Martha Yeardley received from England during this long
journey, very few have been preserved. We shall extract short passages from two which came
to their hands not long before they left the Islands. The first is from John Rowntree, and
is dated the 13th of the First Month, 1834.

On my own account, and on behalf of the Friends of our Monthly Meeting, I feel grateful for
the information respecting your proceedings. There is some difficulty in satisfying the eager
anxiety of my friends to know all that is to be known about your engagements, and I may truly
say that the kind interest which you feel about us is reciprocal. Often do I picture you to
myself, laboring in your Master's cause, receiving as fellow-partakers of the same grace all
whose hearts have been touched with a sense of his love, who are hoping to experience salvation
through Him alone.

Our reading meetings are pretty well attended this winter. We have been reading James Backhouse's
journal: he was still engaged, when he sent the last account of his proceedings, in Van Diemen's
Land. Like you, he and his companion rejoice at meeting with those to whom, although not exactly
agreeing with us in some respects, they can give the right hand of fellowship as laborers under
the same Master. Like you, too, they devote considerable attention to the improvement of schools,
and the improvement of the temporal condition of the poorer classes among whom they labor.

In a letter from William Allen, written the 31st of the Third Month, occur the following words
of encouragement:--

I have heard, through letters to your relations and others, that you have been much discouraged
at not finding a more ready entrance for your gospel message; but really, considering the darkness;
the sensuality, and the superstition of the people in those parts, we must not calculate upon
much in the beginning. If here and there one or two are awakened and enlightened, they may
be like seed sown, and in the Divine Hand become instruments for the gathering of others. Should
you be made the means of accomplishing this, in only a very few instances, it will be worth
all your trials and sufferings. And again, you must consider that, in the performance of your
duty, seed may be sown even unknown by you, which may take root, and grow, and bring forth
fruit to the praise of the Great Husbandman, though you may never hear of it. Be encouraged
therefore, dear friends, to go on from day to day in simple reliance on your Divine Master,
without undue anxiety for consequences; for depend upon it, when he has no more work for you
to do, he will make you sensible of a release.

The passage to Ancona was tedious.

We embarked at noon, and had a long passage to Ancona of twelve days. We landed on the 29th,
and soon found ourselves occupying an empty room in the Lazaretto, without even the accommodation
of a shelf or closet. The term of quarantine is fourteen days, but four days are remitted by
the Pope. The heat is oppressive, and the mosquitoes annoy us much, but we are preserved in
a tolerable degree of health; and in taking a review of our visit to Greece and the Ionian
Islands, we are still sensible of a very peaceful feeling, under a belief that we have followed
the pointings of the Great Master, and a hope that the day is not far distant when the way
will be more fully opened in those countries to receive the gospel. The preaching of John in
the wilderness has often appeared to us to be applicable to this people,--Repent, for the kingdom
of heaven is at hand.

7 mo. 6.--We left Ancona, and took the route through Foligno and Arezzo to Florence. That part
of the Pope's dominions through which we have passed is highly picturesque; hill and dale continually,
and the whole country cultivated absolutely like a garden. Most of the towns are on the hills,
and nothing can exceed the beauty of their situation. But as to vital religion, the spirit
of those who desire the promotion of the Redeemer's kingdom, on the broad and sound basis of
common Christianity, must be clothed with mourning in passing through this superstitious and
illiberal country. What we have seen of Tuscany is not so fine, but the appearance of the peasants
is much superior. The inns are much more agreeable than we found them on the road from Geneva
to Ancona.

We arrived at Florence on the 10th. The persons to whom we had recommendations were absent,
on account of the heat of the season, except the Abbot Valiani, a spiritually-minded man, who
showed us great kindness. He has refused many advantageous offers of promotion, choosing to
be content with a little, rather than to be hampered with fetters which I believe he thinks
unscriptural, and not for the good of the Church; he is of the opinion that it would be better
for the common people to have the Bible, and to be more acquainted with its contents. He conducted
us to see the School for Mutual Instruction, founded under the patronage of the Grand Duke,
about twelve years ago. The school-room is very large, airy, and well lighted; it was formerly
a convent. The system of education differs a little from that practiced in England; but the
children, about 240 in number, are apparently under an efficient course of instruction and
discipline. The younger boys have a string put round the neck, which confines them to the place
during the lesson, but I observed it did not confine their attention. We were much pleased
with the countenance and manners of the director, the Abbot Luigi Brocciolini; his heart appears
to be in his work, which is by no means easy.

We left Florence early on the 13th, and had four days' hard travelling to Genoa. From Sestri
to Genoa, a day's journey, is by the sea, and under the mountains, some of them of a tremendous
height, and beautifully covered with olives, vines, and figs: the houses hang quite on the
sides of the mountains amidst the olives; I do not remember to have passed through any country
equally picturesque.

We had packed as many books and tracts as we well could in our wardrobe trunks, which were
not once opened at the different custom-houses, but the surplus tracts, &c., we were obliged
to put into a spare box by themselves, and this box was not suffered to pass the frontier of
Sardinia. The first officer was embarrassed, not knowing how to act, and sent a gendarme with
us to the bureau of Sarzana, the next town. The officer there was remarkably civil, but told
us the law is such that books cannot enter except on conditions to which we could not in our
conscience submit. We therefore left them in the bureau, desiring that they might be made useful:
a person in the office said, in a half-whisper, These are the books to turn the people's heads.
We were glad this loss did not prevent us from distributing others out of our remaining store,
at the inns, and pretty freely on the road.

Their object in returning by Genoa was to visit the valleys of Piedmont. They reached Turin
on the 19th, and proceeded on the 22nd to Pignerol. From this place they visited most of the
valleys, went into all the families where Stephen Grellet had been, and had frequent religious
conversation with the pastors and some of the people.

