Speaking of society as he saw it, he says, "I saw the unfortunate condition of all mankind,
especially of my own countrymen, in all its hollowness. I saw indulgence despoiling the highest
moral, spiritual, and civil interests, and sapping the lifeblood of our race as never before
in the history of Europe. I saw finally the people of our nation steeped in poverty, misery,
and universal want. From youth up the purpose of my life has been to secure to the poor of
my country a happier fate by improving and simplifying their educational privileges. But the
only sure foundation upon which we may hope to secure national culture and elevate the poor
is that of the home where the love of father and mother is the ruling principle. Through the
unselfishness, truth, strength, and purity of their love, parents kindle faith in their children.
This leads to that implicit obedience which is based on confidence and love."

Love for humanity, desire to ameliorate suffering, and thorough unselfishness furnished the
key to Pestalozzi's purpose and lifework.

=The Christian Ministry.=--It was this lofty purpose that led him first to attempt the work
of the Christian ministry, a work which his aged grandfather encouraged. But he failed in his
first sermon, and at once decided that he had mistaken his calling. Krüsi[134] says that "he
stopped short in his sermon and made mistakes in the Lord's Prayer. This may have been due
to embarrassment, which made the young minister forget the sermon which he had been obliged
to commit to memory. More likely, however, it was an exalted idea of the proper qualifications
of a clergyman, compared with his own humble merits, which induced him to exchange the study
of theology for that of law."

=The Law.=--His motive in devoting himself to law was the same that had led him to the ministry,--his
desire to be a blessing to his fellow-beings. He saw the peasantry cheated and imposed upon
because of their ignorance, and determined to become their champion. Krüsi thinks that his
study of the law must "have produced negative results by showing him the insufficiency of human
legislation to do away with abuses, unless supported by principles of charity and justice."
He therefore gave up this enterprise also.

=Farming.=--The advice of a dying friend, Bluntschli, "Never embark in any operation which
might become dangerous to your peace of mind, because of the simplicity and tenderness of your
disposition," may have had its effect upon Pestalozzi. He now entered upon his third venture.
Having induced a wealthy firm in Zurich to advance him money, he bought about one hundred acres
of unimproved land in the canton of Aargau, where he proposed to raise madder as a means of
profit. Once more his real purpose was philanthropic, as he intended to show the poor peasants
improved methods of farming whereby they could obtain better results for their labor and thereby
be enabled to live more comfortably. He named the place Neuhof.

=Marriage.=--At this time he had just passed his twenty-first year. We pause to mention an
event that had much to do with his happiness and with his later life. He had made the acquaintance
of Anna Schulthess, a young lady of considerable means, and sought her hand in marriage. His
letter to her, proposing marriage, is remarkable for its frankness, for the ingenuous confession
of his own weaknesses, and for its correct estimate of himself. A few quotations from this
letter must suffice.[135] "My failings, which appear to me the most important in relation to
the future, are improvidence, want of caution, and want of that presence of mind which is necessary
to meet unexpected changes in my future prospects. I hope, by continued exertions, to overcome
them; but know that I still possess them to a degree that does not allow me to conceal them
from the maiden I love.... I am further bound to confess that I shall place the duties toward
my fatherland in advance of those to my wife, and that, although I mean to be a tender husband,
I shall be inexorable even to the tears of my wife, if they should ever try to detain me from
performing my duties as a citizen, to their fullest extent. My wife shall be the confidant
of my heart, the partner of all my most secret counsel. A great and holy simplicity shall reign
in my house.... My dear friend, I love you so tenderly and fervently that this confession has
cost me much, since it may even take from me the hope of winning you."

Anna was not discouraged by the picture which the man she loved drew of himself, and she consented
to become his wife. They were married in his twenty-fourth year, and thus began a long period
of happy wedded life that extended over fifty years. Quick tells us that "the forebodings of
the letter were amply realized, ... and yet we may well believe that Madame Pestalozzi never
repented of her choice."

=Neuhof.=--But to return to Pestalozzi's experiment in farming, matters had not progressed
well. The Zurich capitalists became suspicious, and after an investigation decided to withdraw
their support, thus precipitating failure. Of this Pestalozzi himself says, "The cause of the
failure of my undertaking lay essentially and exclusively in myself, and in my pronounced incapacity
for every kind of undertaking which requires practical ability." One cannot fail to admire
the energy and courage of the man, who, conscious of his own weakness, still persevered in
great enterprises until he achieved success.

It was not for himself, but for humanity, that Pestalozzi labored, and no discouragement could
daunt, no failure defeat, no lack of appreciation or misunderstanding check, the ardor of his
zeal for the great work that absorbed his life. Around him were men and women in poverty and
misery, whose children were growing up in vice and ignorance, to perpetuate the evils under
which their parents suffered. With the spirit of his divine Master, Pestalozzi sought to elevate
and bless those around him.

Accordingly, after the failure caused by the withdrawal of the financial support heretofore
mentioned, he started again at Neuhof, using his wife's money. He opened an "industrial school
for the poor," which Krüsi calls "the first school of its kind ever conceived, and the mother
of hundreds now existing on both sides of the Atlantic." This was in 1775. He gathered fifty
children together, and fed, clothed, housed, and taught them without compensation; in return
for this they were to work in the fields in summer and at spinning in the winter. But this
experiment also was doomed to bring disappointment. The children were lazy, shiftless, and
dishonest; their work was of little use to Pestalozzi, because of their lack of skill and their
bad habits. They would often run away as soon as they were well fed and had a new suit of clothes.
Parents were unappreciative and dissatisfied, demanding pay for the labor of their children.
Was there ever a more discouraging situation than this which Pestalozzi had to confront, when
people demanded pay for accepting the philanthropic and unselfish measures taken for the good
of their children and for their own elevation?

This could not continue long, and in 1780 Pestalozzi was obliged to close his school. He found
himself badly in debt, with his wife's property gone. But even under these overwhelming misfortunes
he says, "My failure showed me the truth of my plans," and this has long since been verified,
both in his ideas of farming and in the industrial school.

