THE ATLANTIC MONTHLY

A MAGAZINE OF LITERATURE, ART, AND POLITICS

VOL. V, MAY, 1860, NO. XXXI

INSTINCT.

"Instinct is a great matter," quoth Falstaff, when called upon to find out a device, a "starting-hole,"
to hide himself from the open and apparent shame of having run away from the fight and hacked
his sword like a handsaw with his own dagger. Like a valiant lion, he would not turn upon the
true prince, but ran away upon instinct. Although the peculiar circumstances of the occasion
upon which the subject was presented to Falstaff's mind were not very favorable to a calm consideration
of it, he was undoubtedly correct in saying that instinct is a great matter. "If, then, the
tree may be known by the fruit," says Falstaff, "as the fruit by the tree, then, peremptorily
I speak it, there is virtue in that Falstaff"; and it is proper that his authority should be
quoted, even upon a question of metaphysical science.

That psychological endowment of animals which we denominate instinct has in every age been
a matter full of wonder; and men of thought have found few more interesting subjects of inquiry.
But it is confessed that little has been satisfactorily made out concerning the nature and
limitations of instinct. In former times the habits and mental characteristics of those orders
of animated being which are inferior to man were observed with but a careless eye; and it was
late before the phenomena of animal life received a careful and reverent examination. It is
vain to inquire what instinct is, before there has been an accurate observation of its manifestations.
It is only from its outward manifestations that we can know anything of that marvellous inward
nature which is given to animals. We cannot know anything of the essential constitution of
mind, but can know only its properties. This is all we know even of matter. "If material existence,"
says Sir William Hamilton, "could exhibit ten thousand phenomena, and if we possessed ten thousand
senses to apprehend these ten thousand phenomena of material existence, of existence absolutely
and in itself we should be then as ignorant as we are at present." But this limitation of human
knowledge has not always been kept in view. Men have been solicitous to penetrate into the
higher mysteries of absolute and essential existence. But in thus reaching out after the unattainable,
we have often passed by the only knowledge which it was possible for us to gain. Much vague
speculation concerning instinct has arisen from the attempt to resolve the problem of its ultimate
nature; and perhaps much more might have been made out with certainty about it, if no greater
task had been attempted than to classify the phenomena which it exhibits and determine the
nature of its manifestations. In regard to instinct, as well as everything else, we must be
content with finding out what it seems to us to be, rather than what it is. Even with this
limitation, the inquiry will prove sufficiently difficult. The properties of instinct are a
little more inscrutable than those of the human mind, inasmuch as we have our own consciousness
to assist us in this case, while we are left to infer the peculiarities of instinct from its
outward manifestations only. And moreover, the inquiry involves an understanding of the workings
of the human mind; for it is only when viewed in contrast with the rational endowments of man
that the character of instinct is best known. All other questions connected with the subject
are subordinate to this one of the apparent difference between instinct and reason.

Many definitions have been given of instinctive actions. These differ widely in their extent,
and are for the most part quite inadequate. Some writers have ranged under this term all those
customary habits and actions which are common to all the individuals of a species. According
to this definition, almost every action of animated life is instinctive. But the general idea
of an instinctive action is much more restricted; it is one that is performed without instruction
and prior to experience,--and not for the immediate gratification of the agent, but only as
the means for the attainment of some ulterior end. To apply the term instinct to the regular
and involuntary movements of the bodily organs, such as the beating of the heart and the action
of the organs of respiration, is manifestly an extension of the ordinary acceptation of the
term. Organic actions of a similar character are also performed by plants, and are purely mechanical.
"In the lowest and simplest class of excited movements," says Mueller, "the nervous system
would not appear to be concerned. They result from stimuli directly applied to the muscles,
which immediately excite their contractility; and they are evidently of the same character
with the motions of plants." Thus, the heart is excited to pulsation by the direct contact
of the blood with the muscle. The hand of a sleeping child closes upon any object which gently
touches the palm. And it is in this way, doubtless, that the Sea Anemone entraps its prey,
or anything else that may come in contact with its tentacles. But so far are these movements
from indicating of themselves the action of any instinctive principle, that they are no proof
of animality; for a precisely analogous power is possessed by the sensitive plant known as
the Fly-Trap of Venus (Dionoea muscipula): "any insect touching the sensitive hairs on the
surface of its leaf instantly causes the leaf to shut up and enclose the insect, as in a trap;
nor is this all; a mucilaginous secretion acts like a gastric juice on the captive, digests
it, and renders it assimilable by the plant, which thus feeds on the victim, as the Actinea
feeds on the Annelid or Crustacean it may entrap." In the animal organization a large class
of reflex actions are excited, not by a direct influence, but indirectly by the agency of the
nerves and spinal cord. Such actions are essentially independent of the brain; for they occur
in animals which have no brain, and in those whose brain has been removed. However marvellous
these functions of organic life may be, there is nothing in them at all resembling that agency
properly called instinct, which may be said to take the place in the inferior tribes of reason
in man. To refer these operations to the same source as the wonderful instinct that guides
the bird in its long migratory flight, or in the construction of its nest, would be to make
the bird a curiously constructed machine which is operated by impressions from without upon
its sentient nerves.

Those actions have sometimes been called instinctive which arise from the appetites and passions;
and they have been referred to instinct, doubtless, because they have one characteristic of
instinct,--that they are not acquired by experience or instruction. "But they differ," says
Professor Bowen, "at least in one important respect from those instincts of the lower animals
which are usually contrasted with human reason. The objects towards which they are directed
are prized for their own sake; they are sought as ends; while instinct teaches brutes to do
many things which are needed only as means for the attainment of some ulterior purpose." When
the butterfly extracts the nectar from the flowers which she loves most, she meets a want of
her physical nature which demands satisfaction at the moment; but when, in opposition to her
appetite, she proceeds to the flowerless shrub to deposit her eggs upon the leaves best suited
to support her unthought-of progeny, she is not influenced by any desire for the immediate
gratification of her senses, but is led to the act by some dim impulse, in order that an ultimate
object may be provided for to which she has no reference at the time. We are surprised to find
it declared, in the very interesting "Psychological Inquiries" of Sir B.C. Brodie, that the
desire for food is the simplest form of an instinct, and that such an instinct goes far towards
explaining others which are more complicated. It is true that the appetites and passions of
animals have an ultimate object, but they are impelled to action by a desire for immediate
gratification only; but when we speak of an instinct, we mean something more than a mere want
or desire,--we have chiefly in view the end beyond the blind instrumentality by which it is
reached.

When we watch the movements of a young bee, as it first goes forth from its waxen cradle, we
are forced to recognize an influence at work which is unlike reason, and which is neither appetite
nor any mechanical principle of organic life. Rising upon the comb, and holding steadily with
its tiny feet, with admirable adroitness the young bee smooths its wings for its first flight,
and rubs its body with its fore legs and antennae; then walking along the comb to the mouth
of the hive, it mounts into the air, flies forth into the fields, alights upon the proper flowers,
extracts their juices, collects their pollen, and, kneading it into little balls, deposits
them in the sacks upon its feet; and then returning to its hive, it delivers up the honey and
the wax and the bread which it has gathered and elaborated. In the hive it works the wax with
its paws and feelers into an hexagonal cell with a rhomboidal bottom, the three plates of which
form such angles with each other as require the least wax and space in the construction of
the cell. All these complex operations the bee performs as adroitly, on the first morning of
its life, as the most experienced workman in the hive. The tyro gatherer sought the flowery
fields upon untried wings, and returned to its home from this first expedition with unerring
flight by the most direct course through the trackless air.

This is one instance of that great class of actions which are allowed on all hands to be strictly
instinctive. In the fact, that the occult faculties which urge the bee to make honey and construct
geometrical cells are in complete development when it first emerges from its cell, we recognize
one of the most striking characteristics of instinct,--its existence prior to all experience
or instruction. The insect tribes furnish us with many instances in which the young being never
sees its parents, and therefore all possibility of its profiting from their instructions or
of its imitating their actions is cut off. The solitary wasp, for example, is accustomed to
construct a tunnelled nest in which she deposits her eggs and then brings a number of living
caterpillars and places them in a hole which she has made above each egg; being very careful
to furnish just caterpillars enough to maintain the young worm from the time of its exclusion
from the egg till it can provide for itself, and to place them so as to be readily accessible
the moment food is required. But what is most curious of all is the fact that the wasp does
not deposit the caterpillars unhurt, for thus they would disturb or perhaps destroy the young;
nor does she sting them to death, for thus they would soon be in no state of proper preservation;
but, as if understanding these contingencies, she inflicts a disabling wound. Yet the wasp
does not feed upon caterpillars herself, nor has she ever seen a wasp provide them for her
future offspring. She has never seen a worm such as will spring from her egg, nor can she know
that her egg will produce a worm; and besides, she herself will be dead long before the unknown
worm can be in existence. Therefore she works blindly; without knowing that her work is to
subserve any useful purpose, she works to a purpose both definite and important; and her acts
are uniform with those of all solitary wasps that have lived before her or that will live after
her; so that we are compelled to refer these untaught actions to some constant impulse connected
with the special organization of the wasp,--an innate tact, uniform throughout the species,
of which we, not possessing anything of the kind, can form only a poor conception, but which
we call instinct.

There have been some philosophers, however, who have exercised their ingenuity in tracing so-called
instinctive actions to the operation of experience. The celebrated Doctor Erasmus Darwin gave,
as an illustration of this view, his opinion that the young of animals know how to swallow
from their experience of swallowing in utero. Without going into any refutation of this position,
we would only remark, in passing, that the act of swallowing is not an instinctive action at
all, but a purely mechanical one. Would not Doctor Darwin have rejoiced greatly, if he could
have brought to the support of his theory the observation of our own great naturalist, Agassiz,
who, knowing the savage snap of one of the large, full-grown Testudinata, is said to have asserted,
that, under the microscope, he has seen the juvenile turtle snapping precociously in embryo?

But not only is instinct prior to all experience, it is even superior to it, and often leads
animals to disregard it,--the spontaneous impulse which Nature has given them being their best
guide. The carrier-pigeon or the bird of passage, taken a long distance from home by a circuitous
route, trusting to this "pilot-sense," flies back in a straight course; and the hound takes
the shortest way home through fields where he has never previously set foot.

The existence of instinct prior to all experience or instruction, and its perfection in the
beginning, render cultivation and improvement not only unnecessary, but impossible. As it is
with the individual, so it is with the race. One generation of the irrational tribes does not
improve upon the preceding or educate its successor. The web which you watched the spider weaving
in your open window last summer, carefully measuring off each radius of her wheel and each
circular mesh by one of her legs, was just such a web as the spider wove of old when she was
pronounced to be "little upon the earth, yet exceeding wise."

This incapacity for education is what so widely separates instinct from the rational powers
of man. Man gathers knowledge and transmits it from generation to generation. He is not born
with a ready skill, but with a capacity for it. His mind is formed destitute of all connate
knowledge, that it may acquire the knowledge of all things. "Man's imperfection at his nativity
is his perfection; while the perfection of brutes at their nativity is their imperfection."
No rational being has ever arrived at such perfection that he cannot still improve; he can
travel on from one attainment to another in a perpetual progress of improvement. He is, moreover,
free to choose his own path of action; while the being of instinct is governed by a power which
is not subject to his will, and which confines him to a narrow path which he cannot leave.
But instinct, within its narrow limits, in many cases quite transcends reason in its achievements.

  "Man's attainments in his own concerns,
  Matched with the expertness of the brutes in theirs,
  Are ofttimes vanquished and thrown far behind."

Perhaps man has never made a structure as perfect in all its adaptations as the honeycomb.
Yet when Virgil spoke of the belief that bees have a portion of the mind divine, nothing was
known of the wonderful mathematical properties of this beautiful fabric; and the demonstration
of them which has been made within the present century is beyond the comprehension of far the
larger part of mankind. If the bee comprehended the problem which it has been working out for
these many ages before man was able to solve it, would its intellectual powers be inferior
to his in degree, if they were the same in kind? The water-spider weaves for herself a cocoon,
makes it impervious to water, and fastens it by loose threads to the leaves of plants growing
at the bottom of a still pool. She carries down air in a bag made for this purpose, till the
water is expelled from the cell through the opening below. The spider lived quite dry in her
little air-chamber beneath the water ages before the diving-bell was invented; but that she
understood anything of the doctrines of space and gravity, no one would venture to assert.

It has been the belief of some philosophers, and poets as well, that man has taken the hint
for some of the arts he now practises from the brute creation. Democritus represents him as
having derived the arts of weaving and sewing from the spider, and the art of building of tempered
clay from the swallow; and we also read in Pliny's "Natural History," that the nest of the
swallow suggested to Toxius, the son of Coelus, the invention of mortar. According to Lucretius,
men learned music from the song of birds, and Pope describes them as learning from the mole
to plough, from the nautilus to sail, and from bees and ants to form a political community.
Perhaps we were behind the beaver in felling timber, in leading dams across rivers, and in
building cabin villages,--behind the wasp in making paper, and behind the squirrel and spider
in crossing streams upon rafts. So, if man had needed any example of war and violence and wrong,
he had only to go to the ant-hill and see the red ants invade the camps of the black and bear
off their little negro prisoners into slavery.

Whatever truth there may be in these ideas, it is at least conceivable that man may have profited
from the example of these animals. He has copied from patterns set by Nature in tree and leaf
and flower and plant; he has formed the Gothic arch and column from the trunks and interlacing
boughs of the lofty avenue, the Corinthian capital from the acanthus foliage embracing a basket,
and classic urns and vases from flowers. But no one could describe one species of the brute
world as having derived a similar lesson from another, and much less from trees and plants.
No species of animals has learnt anything new even from man, except within the narrow sphere
of domestication.

It is only in particulars that instinct appears superior to reason in the works it achieves.
When an animal is taken, ever so little, out of the ordinary circumstances in which its instincts
act, it is apt to behave very foolishly. If a woodpecker's egg is hatched by a bird which builds
an open nest upon the branches of a tree, when the young bird is grown large enough to shuffle
about in the nest, induced by its instinct to suppose that its nest is in a hole walled round
on all sides by the tree, with a long, narrow entrance down from above, it does not see that
it has been inducted into the open nest of another bird, and is sure to tumble out. The bee
and the ant, in a few particulars, show wonderful sagacity; but remove them from the narrow
compass of their instincts, and all their wisdom is at an end. That animals are so wise in
a few things and so wanting in wisdom in all others shows that they are endowed with a mental
principle essentially of a different nature from that of the human race. "They do many things
even better than ourselves," says Descartes; "but this does not prove them to be endowed with
reason, for this would prove them to have more reason than we have, and that they should excel
us in all other things also"; for reason can act not only in one direction, but in all.

