For one instant, and only for an instant, a scene of alarm and consternation overcame us; and
we almost instinctively addressed to each other the question, "What can all this mean?" But
the meaning was too palpable not to be understood at once. "The thing cannot end here," said
we--"a night attack is commencing;" and we made no delay in preparing to meet it. Whilst Charlton
remained with the picquet, in readiness to act as the events might demand, I came forward to
the sentries, for the purpose of cautioning them against paying attention to what might pass
in their rear, and keeping them steadily engaged in watching their front. The men were fully
alive to the peril of their situation. They strained with their hearing and eyesight to the
utmost limits; but neither sound nor sight of an advancing column could be perceived. At last,
however, an alarm was given. One of the rifles challenged--it was the sentinel on the high
road; the sentinel who communicated with him challenged also; and the cry was taken up from
man to man, till our own most remote sentry caught it. I flew to his station; and sure enough
the tramp of many feet was most distinctly audible. Having taken the precaution to carry an
orderly forward with me, I caused him to hurry back to Charlton with intelligence of what was
coming, and my earnest recommendation that he would lose no time in occupying the ditch. I
had hardly done so, when the noise of a column deploying was distinctly heard. The tramp of
horses, too, came mingled with the tread of men; in a word, it was quite evident that a large
force, both of infantry and cavalry, was before us.

There was a pause at this period of several moments, as if the enemy's line, having effected
its formation, had halted till some other arrangement should be completed; but it was quickly
broke. On they came, as far as we could judge from the sound, in steady array, till at length
their line could be indistinctly seen rising through the gloom. The sentinels with one consent
gave their fire. They gave it regularly and effectively, beginning with the rifles on their
left, and going off towards the 85th on their right, and then, in obedience to their orders,
fell back. But they retired not unmolested. This straggling discharge on our part seemed to
be the signal to the Americans to begin the battle, and they poured in such a volley, as must
have proved, had any determinate object been opposed to it, absolutely murderous. But our scattered
videttes almost wholly escaped it; whilst over the main body of the picquet, sheltered as it
was by the ditch, and considerably removed from its line, it passed entirely harmless.

Having fired this volley, the enemy loaded again, and advanced. We saw them coming, and having
waited till we judged that they were within excellent range, we opened our fire. It was returned
in tenfold force, and now went on, for a full half hour, as heavy and close a discharge of
musketry as troops have perhaps ever faced. Confident in their numbers, and led on, as it would
appear, by brave officers, the Americans dashed forward till scarcely ten yards divided us;
but our position was an admirable one, our men were steady and cool, and they penetrated no
farther. On the contrary, we drove them back, more than once, with a loss which their own inordinate
multitude tended only to render the more severe.

The action might have continued in this state about two hours, when, to our horror and dismay,
the approaching fire upon our right flank and rear gave testimony that the picquet of the 85th,
which had been in communication with us, was forced. Unwilling to abandon our ground, which
we had hitherto held with such success, we clung for awhile to the idea that the reverse in
that quarter might be only temporary, and that the arrival of fresh troops might yet enable
us to continue the battle in a position so eminently favourable to us. But we were speedily
taught that our hopes were without foundation. The American war-cry was behind us. We rose
from our lairs, and endeavoured, as we best could, to retire upon the right, but the effort
was fruitless. There too the enemy had established themselves, and we were surrounded. "Let
us cut our way through," cried we to the men. The brave fellows answered only with a shout;
and collecting into a small compact line, prepared to use their bayonets. In a moment we had
penetrated the centre of an American division; but the numbers opposed to us were overwhelming;
our close order was lost; and the contest became that of man to man. I have no language adequate
to describe what followed. For myself, I did what I could, cutting and thrusting at the multitudes
about me, till at last I found myself fairly hemmed in by a crowd, and my sword-arm mastered.
One American had grasped me round the waist, another, seizing me by the wrist, attempted to
disarm me, whilst a third was prevented from plunging his bayonet into my body, only from the
fear of stabbing one or other of his countrymen. I struggled hard, but they fairly bore me
to the ground. The reader will well believe, that at this juncture I expected nothing else
than instant death; but at the moment when I fell, a blow upon the head with the butt-end of
a musket dashed out the brains of the man who kept his hold upon my sword-arm, and it was freed.
I saw a bayonet pointed to my breast, and I intuitively made a thrust at the man who wielded
it. The thrust took effect, and he dropped dead beside me. Delivered now from two of my enemies,
I recovered my feet, and found that the hand which dealt the blow to which my preservation
was owing, was that of Charlton. There were about ten men about him. The enemy in our front
were broken, and we dashed through. But we were again hemmed in, and again it was fought hand
to hand, with that degree of determination, which the assurance that life and death were on
the issue, could alone produce. There cannot be a doubt that we should have fallen to a man,
had not the arrival of fresh troops at this critical juncture turned the tide of affairs. As
it was, little more than a third part of our picquet survived, the remainder being either killed
or taken; and both Charlton and myself, though not dangerously, were wounded. Charlton had
received a heavy blow upon the shoulder, which almost disabled him; whilst my neck bled freely
from a thrust, which the intervention of a stout leathern stock alone hindered from being fatal.
But the reinforcement gave us all, in spite of wounds and weariness, fresh courage, and we
renewed the battle with alacrity.

In the course of the struggle in which we had been engaged, we had been borne considerably
out of the line of our first position, and now found that the main-road and the picquet of
the rifles, were close in our rear. We were still giving way--for the troops opposed to us
could not amount to less than fifteen hundred men, whilst the whole force on our part came
not up to one hundred--when Captain Harris, major of brigade to Colonel Thornton, came up with
an additional company to our support. Making way for them to fall in between us and the rifles,
we took ground once more to the right, and driving back a body of the enemy, which occupied
it, soon recovered the position from which we had been expelled. But we did so with the loss
of many brave men, and, among others, of Captain Harris. He was shot in the lower part of the
belly at the same instant that a musket-ball struck the hilt of his sword, and forced it into
his side. Once more established in our ditch, we paused, and from that moment till the battle
ceased to rage we never changed our attitude.

It might be about one o'clock in the morning,--the American force in our front having fallen
back, and we having been left, for a full half hour to breathe, when suddenly the head of a
small column showed itself in full advance towards us. We were at this time amply supported
by other troops, as well in communication as in reserve; and willing to annihilate the corps
now approaching, we forbade the men to fire till it should be mingled with us. We did even
more than this. Opening a passage for them through our centre, we permitted some hundred and
twenty men to march across our ditch, and then wheeling up, with a loud shout, we completely
enclosed them. Never have I witnessed a panic more perfect or more sudden than that which seized
them. They no sooner beheld the snare into which they had fallen, than with one voice they
cried aloud for quarter; and they were to a man made prisoners on the spot. The reader will
smile when he is informed that the little corps thus captured consisted entirely of members
of the legal profession. The barristers, attorneys, and notaries of New Orleans having formed
themselves into a volunteer corps, accompanied General Jackson in his operations this night;
and they were all, without a solitary exception, made prisoners. It is probably needless to
add, that the circumstance was productive of no trifling degree of mirth amongst us; and to
do them justice, the poor lawyers, as soon as they recovered from their first alarm, joined
heartily in our laughter.

This was the last operation in which we were engaged to-night. The enemy, repulsed on all sides,
retreated with the utmost disorder, and the whole of the advance, collecting at the sound of
the bugle, drew up, for the first time since the commencement of the affair, in a continuous
line. We took our ground in front of the bivouac, having our right supported by the river,
and our left covered by the chateau and village of huts. Among these latter the cannon were
planted; whilst the other divisions, as they came rapidly up, took post beyond them. In this
position we remained, eagerly desiring a renewal of the attack, till dawn began to appear,
when, to avoid the fire of the vessel, the advance once more took shelter behind the bank.
The first brigade, on the contrary, and such portion of the second as had arrived, encamped
upon the plain, so as to rest their right upon the wood; and a chain of picquets being planted
along the entire pathway, the day was passed in a state of inaction.

I hardly recollect to have spent fourteen or fifteen hours with less comfort to myself than
these. In the hurry and bustle of last night's engagement, my servant, to whose care I had
intrusted my cloak and haversack, disappeared; he returned not during the whole morning; and
as no provisions were issued out to us, nor any opportunity given to light fires, I was compelled
to endure, all that time, the extremes of hunger, weariness, and cold. As ill luck would have
it, too, the day chanced to be remarkably severe. There was no rain, it is true, but the sky
was covered with gray clouds; the sun never once pierced them, and a frost, or rather a vile
blight, hung upon the atmosphere from morning till night. Nor were the objects which occupied
our senses of sight and hearing quite such as we should have desired to occupy them. In other
parts of the field, the troops, not shut up as we were by the enemy's guns, employed themselves
in burying the dead, and otherwise effacing the traces of warfare. The site of our encampment
continued to be strewed with carcases to the last; and so watchful were the crew of the schooner,
that every effort to convey them out of sight brought a heavy fire upon the party engaged in
it. I must say, that the enemy's behaviour on the present occasion was not such as did them
honour. The house which General Kean had originally occupied as head-quarters, being converted
into an hospital, was filled at this time with wounded, both from the British and American
armies. To mark its uses, a yellow flag, the usual signal in such cases, was hoisted on the
roof--yet did the Americans continue to fire at it, as often as a group of six or eight persons
happened to show themselves at the door. Nay, so utterly regardless were they of the dictates
of humanity, that even the parties who were in the act of conveying the wounded from place
to place, escaped not without molestation. More than one such party was dispersed by grape-shot,
and more than one poor maimed soldier was in consequence hurled out of the blanket in which
he was borne.

The reader will not doubt me when I say, that seldom has the departure of day-light been more
anxiously looked for by me, than we looked for it now. It is true, that the arrival of a little
rum towards evening served in some slight degree to elevate our spirits; but we could not help
feeling, not vexation only, but positive indignation, at the state of miserable inaction to
which we were condemned.

There was not a man amongst us who would have hesitated one moment, had the choice been submitted
to him, whether he would advance or lie still. True, we might have suffered a little, because
the guns of the schooner entirely commanded us; and in rushing out from our place of concealment
some casualties would have occurred; but so irksome was our situation, that we would have readily
run all risks to change it. It suited not the plans of our general, however, to indulge these
wishes. To the bank we were enjoined to cling; and we did cling to it, from the coming in of
the first gray twilight of the morning, till the last twilight of evening had departed.

As soon as it was well dark, the corps to which Charlton and myself were attached received
orders to file off to the right. We obeyed, and passing along the front of the hospital, we
skirted to the rear of the village, and established ourselves in the field beyond. It was a
positive blessing this restoration to something like personal freedom. The men set busily to
work, lighting fires and cooking provisions;--the officers strolled about, with no other apparent
design than to give employment to their limbs, which had become stiff with so protracted a
state of inaction. For ourselves we visited the wounded, said a few kind words to such as we
recognised, and pitied, as they deserved to be pitied, the rest. Then retiring to our fire,
we addressed ourselves with hearty good will to a frugal supper, and gladly composed ourselves
to sleep.--A Subaltern in America.--Blackwood's Magazine.

       *       *       *       *       *

SONNET--NOCHE SERENA.

    How tranquil is the night! The torrent's roar
    Dies off far distant; through the lattice streams
    The pure, white, silvery moonshine, mantling o'er
    The couch and curtains with its fairy gleams.
    Sweet is the prospect; sweeter are the dreams
    From which my loathful eyelid now unclosed:--
    Methought beside a forest we reposed,
    Marking the summer sun's far western beams,
    A dear-loved friend and I. The nightingale
    To silence and to us her pensive tale
    Sang forth; the very tone of vanish'd years
    Came o'er me, feelings warm, and visions bright;
    Alas! how quick such vision disappears,
    To leave the spectral moon and silent night!

Delta of Blackwood's Magazine.

       *       *       *       *       *

ARTS AND SCIENCES.

       *       *       *       *       *

THE BEECH TREE.--A NONCONDUCTOR OF LIGHTNING.

Dr. Beeton, in a letter to Dr. Mitchill of New York, dated 19th of July, 1824, states, that
the beech tree (that is, the broad leaved or American variety of Fagus sylvatiea,) is never
known to be assailed by atmospheric electricity. So notorious, he says, is this fact, that
in Tenessee, it is considered almost an impossibility to be struck by lightning, if protection
be sought under the branches of a beech tree. Whenever the sky puts on a threatening aspect,
and the thunder begins to roll, the Indians leave their pursuit, and betake themselves to the
shelter of the nearest beech tree, till the storm pass over; observation having taught these
sagacious children of nature, that, while other trees are often shivered to splinters, the
electric fluid is not attracted by the beech. Should farther observation establish the fact
of the non-conducting quality of the American beech, great advantage may evidently be derived
from planting hedge rows of such trees around the extensive barn yards in which cattle are
kept, and also in disposing groups and single trees in ornamental plantations in the neighbourhood
of the dwelling houses of the owners.--New Monthly Magazine.

ANTIQUITIES.

A valuable discovery was made the other day in Westminster Abbey. It had become necessary to
make repairs near the tomb of Edward the Confessor, when, by removing a portion of the pavement,
an exquisitely beautiful piece of carved work, which had originally formed part of the shrine
of Edward's tomb, was discovered. This fine relic, the work of the eleventh or twelfth century,
appears to have been studded with precious stones; and the presumption is, that during the
late civil wars it was taken down for the purpose of plunder, and after the gems were taken
out, buried under the ground (very near the surface of the earth) to avoid detection.--Ibid.

       *       *       *       *       *

ARCHERY

Previous to introducing the communication of a much respected correspondent, who has well described,
by drawing and observation, a Royal Archer of Scotland, we shall offer a few general remarks
on the subject of the above engraving, which relates to an amusement which we are happy to
find is patronized in many counties in England by respectable classes of society at this day.
No instrument of warfare is more ancient than that of the bow and arrow, and the skill of the
English bowmen is celebrated. It seems, that in ancient times the English had the advantage
over enemies chiefly by their archers and light-armed troops.

The archers were armed with a long-bow, a sheaf of arrows, a sword, and a small shield.

The cross-bowmen, as their name implies, were armed with the cross-bow, and arrows called quarrels.

Even after the invention of guns, the English archers are spoken of as excelling those of all
other nations; and an ancient writer affirms that an English arrow, with a little wax upon
its point, would pass through any ordinary corselet or cuirass. It is uncertain how far the
archers with the long-bow could send an arrow; but the cross-bowmen could shoot their quarrels
to the distance of forty rods, or the eighth part of a mile. For a more general and extended
notice of the history of archery, however, we refer our readers to a recent volume,[2] and
here we have the correspondence alluded to a few lines above.

    [2] MIRROR, Vol. viii., p. 324.

A ROYAL ARCHER OF SCOTLAND.

(For the Mirror.)

    "Good-morrowe, good fellow,--
    Methinks, by this bowe thou beares in thy hand
    A good archere thou shouldst bee."
Old Ballad.

I feel happy that it is in my power to present a drawing, made expressly for the purpose, of
the picturesque costume worn by the Royal Company of Archers, or King's Body Guard of Scotland.
This is described in Stark's "Picture of Edinburgh" thus:--"Their uniform is 42nd tartan, with
green velvet collar and cuffs, and a Highland bonnet, with feathers; on the front of the bonnet
is the cross of St. Andrew, and a gold arrow on the collar of the jacket." There is a something
in the very idea of an archer, and in the name of Robin Hood, particularly charming to most
bosoms, coming as they do to us fraught with all delicious associations; the wild, free forest
life, the sweet pastime, the adventures of bold outlaws amid the heaven of sylvan scenery,
and the national renown of British bowmen which mingles with the records of our chivalry in
history and romance; while the revival of archery in England of late years, as an elegant amusement,
sufficiently proves that the high feeling which seems mysteriously to blend a present age with
one long since gone by, is not totally extinct. Shall I venture to assert, that for this we
are indebted to the charmed light cast around a noble and ancient pastime by the antiquary,
poet, and romance-writer of modern times? But to return, the Scottish archers were first formed
into a company and obtained a charter, granting them great privileges, under the reign of queen
Anne, for which they were to pay to the crown, annually, a pair of barbed arrows. One of these
allowances was, that they might meet and go forth under their officer's conduct, in military
form, in manner of weapon-showing, as often as they should think convenient. "But they have
made no public parade since 1743,"[3] owing, probably, to the state of parties in Edinburgh,
for their attachment to the Stuart family was well understood, and falling under the suspicion
of the British government after the rebellion of 1745, they were watched, "and spies appointed
to frequent their company." The company possess a house built by themselves, termed Archers'
Hall. All their business is transacted by a president and six counsellors, who are nominated
by the members at large, and have authority to admit or reject candidates ad libitum. The number
of this association is now very great, having been of late years much increased; they have
standards, with appropriate emblems and mottoes, and shoot for several prizes annually; amongst
these are a silver bowl and arrows, which, by a singular regulation, "are retained by the successful
candidate only one year, when he appends a medal to them; and as these prizes are of more than
a hundred years standing, the number of medals now attached to them are very curious."

    [3] Their part in the procession formed to welcome our monarch
    to his Scottish metropolis, should be excepted.

To this notice may I be permitted to subjoin a few stanzas? Old Izaak Walton hath put songs
and sylvan poesy in plenty into the mouths of his anglers and rural dramatis personae, and
shall I be blamed for following, in all humility, his illustrious example? Perchance--but hold!
it is one of the fairest of summer mornings; the sun sheds a pure, a silvery light on the young,
fresh, new-waked foliage and herbage; a faint mist veils the blue distance of the landscape;
but the pearly shroud conceals not yonder troop of young blithe men, who, arranged in green,
after the olden fashion, each bearing the implements of archery, and tripping lightly over
the heath, are carolling in the joy of their free spirits, while the fresh breeze brings to
my ear most distinctly the words of

THE ARCHER'S SONG.

    Away!--away!--yon golden sun
    Hath chas'd nights' shadows damp and dun;
    Forth from his turfy couch, the lark
    Hath sprung to meet glad day: and hark!
    A mingling and delicious song
    Breathes from the blithe-voiced plumy throng;
    While, to the green-wood hasten we
    Whose craft is, gentle archery!

    Now swift we bound o'er dewy grass!
    Rousing the red fox as we pass,
    And startling linnet, merle, and thrush,
    As recklessly the boughs we brush.
    The hunter's horn sings thro' the brakes.
    And its soft lay apt echo takes;
    But soon her sweet enamoured tone
    Shall tell what song is all our own!

    On!--on!--glad brothers of the bow!
    The dun deer's couching place ye know,
    And gallant bucks this day shall rue
    Our feather'd shafts,--so swift,--so true;
    Yet, sorer than the sylvan train,
    Our foes, upon the battle-plain,
    Will mourn at the unerring hands
    Of Albion's matchless archer bands!

    Now hie we on, to silent shades,
    To glist'ning streams, and sunlit glades,
    Where all that woodland life can give,
    Renders it bliss indeed, to live.
    Come, ye who love the shadowy wood,
    Whate'er your days, whate'er your mood.
    And join us, freakish knights that be
    Of grey-goose wing, and good yew-tree!

    Say--are ye mirthful?--then we'll sing
    Of wayward feasts and frolicking;--
    Tell jests and gibes,--nor lack we store
    Of knightly tales, and monkish lore;
    High freaks of dames and cavaliers,
    Of warlocks, spectres, elfs, and seers,
    Till with glad heart, and blithesome brow,
    Ye bless your brothers of the bow!

    Is sadness courted?--ye shall lie
    When summer's sultry noons are high,
    By darkling forest's shadow'd stream
    To muse;--or, sweeter still, to dream
    Day-dreams of love; while round ye rise
    Distant, delicious harmonies;
    Until ye languishing declare
    An archer's life, indeed is fair!

M. L. B.

       *       *       *       *       *

THE NOVELIST

NO. CV.

       *       *       *       *       *

THE GHIBELLINES.

A Fragment of a Tuscan Tale.

BY MISS EMMA ROBERTS.

    "His name's Gonzago.--The story is extant, and written in very
    choice Italian."

Ten thousand lights burned throughout the Alberoni palace, and all the nobility of Florence
flocked to the bridal of its wealthy lord. It was a fair sight to see the stately mirrors which
spread their shining surfaces between pillars of polished marble reflecting the gay assemblage,
that, radiant with jewels, promenaded the saloon, or wreathed the dance to the witching music
of the most skilful minstrels in all Tuscany. Every lattice was open, and the eye, far as it
could reach, wandered through illuminated gardens, tenanted by gay groups, where the flush
of the roses, the silver stars of the jasmine, the crimson, purple, orange, and blue of the
variegated parterre were revealed as if the brightest blaze of day flashed upon their silken
leaves. Amid all this pomp of beauty and splendour the bride moved along, surpassing all that
was fair and resplendent around her by the exceeding loveliness of a face and form to which
every eye and every heart paid involuntary homage. At her side appeared the exulting bridegroom,
to whom, however, more it should seem through diffidence than aversion, her eyes were never
raised; for though Count Alberoni had advanced beyond the middle age of life, yet he still
retained the majestic port and commanding lineaments for which he had been distinguished in
early youth; his riches rendered him all potent in Florence, and none dared dispute with him
the possession of its fairest flower. Intoxicated with the pleasures offered at the banquet
and the ball, whatever of envy or of jealousy might have been hidden in the bosoms of the guests
while contemplating the treasure which the triumphant Alberoni had snatched from contending
suitors, it was concealed, and the most cheerful hilarity prevailed. Yet, amid the general
expression of happiness, there were two persons who, attracting notice by the meanness of their
attire, and the melancholy gloom upon their countenances, seemed to be out of place in so stately
and so joyous an assembly. They were brother and sister, the descendants of Ghibellines who
had died in exile, and distant relations of the Count, who though not choosing to regard them
as his heirs, had, when the abolition of a severe law enabled the proscribed faction to return
to Florence, accorded them shelter and protection. Meanly clad in vestments of coarse serge,
there were yet no cavaliers who fluttered in silk and velvet who could compare in personal
beauty with Francesco Gonzago; and the bride alone, of all the beauties who shone in gold and
silver, appeared superior in feminine charms to the lovely Beatrice, notwithstanding that her
cumbrous robe of grey stuff obscured the delicate proportions of her sylph-like form. Buoyant
in spirit, and animated by the scene before her, occasionally a gleam of sunshine would irradiate
her brow as she gazed upon the sparkling throng who formed the brilliant pageant which so much
delighted her; but as she turned to express her feelings to her brother, his pale pensive features
and the recollection of the intense anguish which wrung his heart, subdued her gaiety, the
smile passed away from her lip, the rose deserted her cheek, and she stood by his side sad
and sorrowful as some monumental statue. Many persons grieved at the depressed fortunes of
the once powerful Gonzagos, but there were others who sneered at their present degradation,
enjoying the cruel mockery with which Alberoni had forced the man who had cherished hopes of
succeeding as heir-at-law to his immense estates, to witness the downfall of those flattering
expectations. Few and slight were the salutations which passed between the dejected pair and
the more illustrious guests; but as the bride made the circuit of the apartments, she paused
when approaching her husband's neglected relatives, and raising eyes swimming with drops of
sympathy, greeted them with unaffected tenderness. Francesco was unprepared for the gentle
kindness of her address; his stern heart melted, his proud glance suddenly changed to one of
gracious courtesy; he gazed upon her as upon some angelic being sent down from heaven to soothe
and gladden his perturbed soul; and henceforward he saw nothing in the glare, and the crowd,
and the splendour around him, save the sweet face and the delicate form of the Countess Alberoni;
his charmed eyes followed her from place to place, and so entirely was he engrossed by one
object, that he did not perceive that the attention of Beatrice was almost wholly occupied
by a young and sprightly cavalier, who pursued her like a shadow, pouring tender tales in a
not unwilling ear. Group by group the guests retired from the festive scene, and the brother
and sister, scarcely able to define the new feelings which sprung up in the heart of each,
quitted the magnificent palace to seek their forlorn abode. A pavilion, nearly in ruins, was
the sole shelter which the proud lord of Alberoni afforded to the only surviving branches of
his family, when returning to their native city they found their patrimonial estates confiscated,
and themselves dependent upon the niggard bounty of a cold and selfish relative. Slowly recovering
from a severe wound which he had received in the wars of Lombardy, and disgusted with the ingratitude
of the prince he served, the ill-starred Francesco was at first rejoiced to obtain any refuge
from the storms of a tempestuous world; and the unceasing efforts of his young and affectionate
sister to reconcile him to a bitter lot were not wholly unavailing. Summer had spread her richest
treasures upon the lap of Nature; and the fairy hands of Beatrice transformed the bare walls
of the dilapidated edifice which they inhabited into bowers of luxuriant foliage; the most
delicious fruit also, the spontaneous product of the garden, cooled at some crystal fount and
heaped with flowers, tempted her brother's languid appetite; and, waking the soft notes of
her lute, she soothed his desponding spirit with music's gentlest sound. Fondly trusting that
Francesco might be won to prize the simple enjoyments of which fortune could not despoil him,
and to find his dearest happiness in an approving conscience, the light hearted girl indulged
in delusive hopes of future felicity. But these expectations were soon damped; as Francesco's
health returned he became restless and melancholy; he saw no prospect of arriving at distinction
by his talents, or by his sword; peace reigned throughout the Tuscan states, and the jealousy
of the government of all who bore the mark of Ghibelline extraction, forbade the chance of
successful exertion and honourable reward; his days were spent in moody abstraction, his nights
in feverish dreams; his misfortunes, his accomplishments and his virtues failed to excite affection
in the breast of his kinsman, who, jealous of the youth and personal attractions of the man
apparently destined to be his heir, grew uneasy at the thought of benefitting a person he had
learned to hate; and suddenly resolving to cut off at once the presumptuous expectations which
the luckless exile might have cherished, exerted the influence procured by his wealth to form
an alliance with the most peerless beauty which the city boasted. A new source of anguish added
to the misery already sustained by the wretched Gonzago; his arm was paralyzed by the utter
hopelessness of any attempt to emerge from the obscurity to which fate had condemned him; he
brooded over the dismal futurity which opened before him; and, as a solace to these gloomy
meditations, suffered his imagination to dwell upon the charms and graces of the lovely Giacinta,
his kinsman's gentle bride. He saw her sometimes flitting through the myrtle groves which skirted
the neighbouring palace; and when night favoured his concealment, he would approach the marble
porticos to catch the sound of her voice as, accompanied by a lute, she wasted its melody upon
the silent stars. Beatrice, in the mean time, experienced only in the pale brow and haggard
form of her brother an alloy to her happiness. Alessandro, the young heir of the Orsini family,
had abandoned the gay revels of Florence to share the solitude of the despised Ghibellines;
and although there seemed to be little chance of ultimate triumph over the obstacles which
opposed themselves to an alliance between the prosperous scion of a noble house and the unportioned
orphan of a banished man, yet hope pre-ponderated over fear, and, blessed by her enchanting
smiles, the lover indulged in delightful anticipations.

...

Again was the Alberoni palace illumined by innumerable tapers; again were the glittering saloons
filled with all the noble population of Florence. A second nuptial feast, more splendid and
joyous than the first, was celebrated; again Giacinta, lovelier than ever, shone as the bride,
and by her side a cavalier appeared, whose summer of life was better adapted to match with
her tender years than the mature age of her late husband had been.

The Count Alberoni Gonzago was dead; and Francesco succeeding to his wealth, had obtained the
hand of his widow. Beatrice, also a bride, followed in the train of the Countess, but followed
more like a mourner at some funeral solemnity than as the newly wedded consort of the husband
of her choice. Francesco all smiles and triumph, as he stood with the fairest hand in Florence
hanging on his arm, proudly greeting the guests who crowded to pay him homage, turned frequently,
and cast looks of piercing examination and reproach upon his pale and trembling sister, and,
as if fascinated by his glance, she would rally her, failing spirits and smile languidly upon
the bridegroom, who bent over her enamoured; and then, as if beguiled from some painful contemplation
by the sweet accents of the man she loved, she became calm, and her quivering features resumed
their wonted placidity. But these moments of tranquillity were of short duration; she started
at every shadow; the flash of one of the jewels which broidered her satin robe would cause
a fit of trembling; and at length, when seated at the banquet opposite her brother and his
bride, a richly clad domestic offered wine in a golden goblet; for a moment she held it to
her lips, and then dashed it away, exclaiming--"It is poison! Hide me,--save me. I see it every
where; in those green leaves from whence it was distilled.--Oh! Francesco, Francesco, let us
be poor and happy!" The guests shrunk aghast from the speaker, who, falling from her seat,
expired in convulsions.

The power conferred by Gonzago's immense riches silenced the whispered murmurs of the assembly.
No man rose to higher eminence in the state than the idolized husband of the beautiful Giacinta;
but a dark cloud hung upon his house, his children were all cut off in their infancy, and,
after a few brief years of outward felicity, struck from his horse by the fragment of a building
which fell upon him as he rode in pomp through the city, he received a mortal wound, surviving
the accident only long enough to unburthen his soul to his confessor.

His dying words were addressed to Alessandro, from whom since the hour of his nuptials he had
been estranged; pressing his hand, he exclaimed--"She was innocent! she heard not of the murder
until it had been accomplished."--London Weekly Review.

       *       *       *       *       *

THE SELECTOR; AND LITERARY NOTICES OF NEW WORKS.

       *       *       *       *       *

RAFTS AND RHINE SCENERY.

Between Andernach and Bonn I saw two or three of those enormous rafts which are formed of the
accumulated produce of the Swiss and German forests. One was anchored in the middle of the
river, and looked like a floating island. These Krakens of the Rhine are composed of oak and
fir floated in smaller rafts down the tributary streams, and, their size constantly increasing
till they arrive hereabouts, they make platforms of from four hundred to seven hundred feet
long, and one hundred and forty feet in breadth. When in motion, a dozen boats and more precede
them, carrying anchors and cables to guide and arrest their course. The navigation of a raft
down the Rhine to Dort, in Holland, which is the place of their destination,[4] is a work of
great difficulty. The skill of the German and Dutch pilots who navigate them, in spite of the
abrupt turnings, the eddies, the currents, rocks and shoals that oppose their progress, must
indeed be of a very peculiar kind, and can be possessed but by few. It requires besides a vast
deal of manual labour. The whole complement of rowers and workmen, together with their wives
and children, on board one of the first-rates, amounts to the astonishing number of nine hundred
or a thousand; a little village, containing from forty to sixty wooden houses, is erected upon
each, which also is furnished with stalls for cattle, a magazine for provisions, &c. The dwelling
appropriated to the use of the master of the raft and the principal super-cargoes was conspicuous
for its size and commodiousness. It is curious to observe these rafts, on their passage, with
their companies of rowers stationed at each end, making the shores ring again to the sound
of their immense oars.

    [4] About twelve of these rafts annually arrive at Dort, in
    July or August; when the German timber merchants, having
    converted their floats into good Dutch ducats, return to their
    own country. When the water is low, those machines are
    sometimes months upon the journey.--Campbell's Guide.

    [5] There are the ruins of fourteen castles on the left bank,
    and of fifteen on the right bank of the Rhine, from Mentz to
    Bonn, a distance of thirty-six leagues.

