One Sunday in March, between the early and the latter rains, Miss Northrop and Will Strong
walked out together several miles over the plain. The gravel had long disappeared under green
burclover and filaria, thickly dotted with the little yellow clover blossoms, the lilac ones
of the filaria, and with small blue gilias. The flocks and herds had been driven down from
the mountains where they spend their summers and autumns, and the air was full of the bleating
of lambs. Up and down either horizon, converging toward the north, were the long ranks of the
Sierras and Coast Range, deep blue, ruggedly tipped with white peaks of all shapes--the Lassen
Buttes, the Yallo Balleys, and many a lesser one. Northward, in the interval between the ranges,
miles and miles away, the solitary peak of Shasta rose above the dark oak-knolls, sharp-white
from base to tip, against a stainless sky. They sat down on the warm clover, beside a noisy
yellow stream that ran full to its banks on its way to the Sacramento. Winifred pushed back
her hat, dropped her hands in her lap, and let her senses be played upon by the delicious air,
the blue and white of mountains and sky and clouds, the luminous green, the rushing of water
close by, and the bleating of flocks in the distance. It gave Will a good chance to watch her
face--the sweetness of the mouth; the nobility of the level brows; the frankness of the eyes;
the soft wave of her hair. There was a marked sadness in her face in repose; to wonder why,
was to transgress the code of loyal humility that Will set himself; he had not even considered
it due chivalry to speculate, much less ask, as to the reason of so amazing a phenomenon as
her presence in California at all, and the incongruity of her school-teaching. Her pose was
perfect, and yet nothing could be more unconscious. Was that marvellous spontaneity, that simple
dignity, the regular thing among the men and women Winifred belonged with? It made him feel
left very far out to think so. How incapable of effort for admiration she was, yet how invariably
admirable!

She caught him looking at her, in time. "What is it?" she said, simply.

He colored with some confusion, but confessed a piece of his thought. "I was wondering if you
really do not care at all for admiration. Most people would think they got the good of their
living in being praised a fraction as much as you've been. If that's impertinent I beg your
pardon; you asked me."

The portion of aristocrat's pride that was in Winifred was largely concentrated in an objection
to talking of herself or letting other people do it; so she looked a little annoyed. She began
with some constraint:

"Yes--I care--at first--when it is the right one that praises. But there is always a reaction
of self-distrust. It seems humiliating," she went on more frankly, "to have been praised for
having done some common thing--solved a problem, or written a poem, or handled a piano--a little
more or less cleverly, when one comes to think what education and art are. And personal admiration--that
always seems a contemptible sort of folly, if you think of what great things there are to do
and be in the world, and the lives the great lonely souls have lived."

"Your achievement seems little to you," said Will, with some gloom, "because, I suppose, more
always opens to you. To me, who have made none--"

"Why, Will," she cried, with the most genuine dissent. "You have done more than almost any
one I know. Do you call it nothing to do a college curriculum alone and under all sorts of
hindrances? And I know that it was done well and thoroughly."

"Oh, yes," he said, indifferently, tossing bits of clover into the stream, "I could have passed
an A. B. fast enough. But you know better than I do, Winifred, that that's the least of a college
course. I've seen fellows that had to work their way through and had no spare time or energy,
and they always lacked a great deal of the college flavor; the education didn't permeate 'em.
Then there are other things--music, art, social opportunities, capacity of expression--that
are no slight things to miss; they make up more of first-class living than Greek optatives
or the equation of a surface. It isn't really possible for a man, not backed by circumstances,
to get himself into a position that some are born to." He let the clover be and looked up.
"Oh, I'm not growling, Winifred," he said, hastily, smiling, as he saw her about to speak eagerly.
"I'm only making philosophical observations, and using myself as an illustration. Why in the
world should I growl to find myself stranded half way up, when there is a townful of people
behind us clear down at the bottom, and no more their fault than mine? Why should I mind that
I am left out from the best chances, any more than that a thousand other fellows are? 'What
Act of Legislature was there that' I should be cultured?"

She was leaning forward with her irresistible eyes full on his, and face and voice vivified
with that sympathetic expressiveness that makes speech count for far more than the words.

"Will, that is true," she cried, "but it is only part of the truth. 'Close thy' Carlyle; 'open
thy' Emerson. It's true, you have missed some things that you deserved to have and that many
of your inferiors have for nothing. But your life is only begun, and your ability and pluck
can do so much that you needn't waste regret on anything they may fail to do. Even if circumstances
be unconquerable that stand between you and some good things, are the things you have gained
instead of less value?--your courage and patience, your self-reliance and trustworthiness and
helpfulness? Why, Will, character is worth more than knowledge of art, or familiarity with
good society; just to live bravely is worth more than all the rest. Do you suppose I would
exchange your companionship for that of a dozen 'cultured' people who could talk to me about
'sincere furniture'"--this was in the last decade, remember--"and Rauss's heads, as you can't,
and who never showed me one spark of genuine feeling about the great things of life, as you can?"

Will was overwhelmed. Winifred had talked of his affairs much, following them with unvarying
interest, but of himself or herself, never; and it was actually a new idea to the young fellow
that she could have any very high opinion of him. Moreover, it was the first time he had heard
her speak with unveiled and ardent feeling.

"You do not mean"--and he formed his words with difficulty--"that I could meet on equal ground
people that--such people as your associates."

"No; you would meet most of them on higher ground. If they didn't know it, that would be their
discredit. I should think you could see that," she added, in a quick, parenthetic averse way,
"from their associate. If you want to get a higher opinion of the value of your life, compare
it with an ordinary, foolish, useless one--like mine." She gave him no chance to answer that,
but was the next moment on her feet, suggesting that they walk on, and wishing they were not
to stop short of the Lassen Buttes, whose apparent nearness, scores of miles distant as they
were, was still a perpetual surprise to her eastern eyes.

