THE

                             MAGNIFICENT

                                MONTEZ

                     From Courtesan to Convert

                                 By

                            HORACE WYNDHAM

             "When you met Lola Montez, her reputation
             made you automatically think of bedrooms."

                                           --ALDOUS HUXLEY.

                          HILLMAN-CURL, INC.

                             Publishers

                               NEW YORK

       *       *       *       *       *

FOREWORD

Sweep a drag-net across the pages of contemporary drama, and it is unquestionable that in her
heyday no name on the list stood out, in respect of adventure and romance, with greater prominence
than did that of Lola Montez. Everything she did (or was credited with doing) filled columns
upon columns in the press of Europe and America; and, from first to last, she was as much "news"
as any Hollywood heroine of our own time. Yet, although she made history in two hemispheres,
it has proved extremely difficult to discover and unravel the real facts of her glamorous career.
This is because round few (if any) women has been built up such a honeycomb of fable and fantasy
and imagination as has been built up round this one.

Even where the basic points are concerned there is disagreement. Thus, according to various
chroniclers, the Sultan of Turkey, an "Indian Rajah" (unspecified), Lord Byron, the King of
the Cannibal Islands, and a "wealthy merchant," each figure as her father, with a "beautiful
Creole," a "Scotch washerwoman," and a "Dublin actress" for her mother; and Calcutta, Geneva,
Limerick, Montrose, and Seville--and a dozen other cities scattered about the world--for her
birthplace. This sort of thing is--to say the least of it--confusing.

But Lola Montez was something of an anachronism, and had as lofty a disregard for convention
as had the ladies thronging the Court of Merlin. Nor, it must be admitted, was she herself
any pronounced stickler for exactitude. Thus, she lopped half a dozen years off her age, allotted
her father (whom she dubbed a "Spanish officer of distinction") a couple of brevet steps in
rank, and insisted on an ancestry to which she was never entitled.

Still, if Lola Montez deceived the public about herself, others have deceived the public about
Lola Montez. Thus, in one of his books, George Augustus Sala solemnly announced that she was
a sister of Adah Isaacs Menken; and a more modern writer, unable to distinguish between Ludwig
I and his grandson Ludwig II, tells us that she was "intimate with the mad King of Bavaria."
To anybody (and there still are such people) who accepts the printed word as gospel, slips
of this sort destroy faith.

As a fount of information on the subject, the Autobiography (alleged) of Lola Montez, first
published in 1859, is worthless. The bulk of it was written for her by a clerical "ghost" in
America, the Rev. Chauncey Burr, and merely serves up a tissue of picturesque and easily disproved
falsehoods. A number of these, by the way, together with some additional embroideries, are
set out at greater length in other volumes by Ferdinand Bac (who confounds Ludwig I with Maximilian
II) and the equally unreliable Eugène de Mirecourt and Auguste Papon. German writers, on the
other hand, have, if apt to be long-winded, at least avoided the more obvious pitfalls. Among
the books and pamphlets (many of them anonymous) of Teutonic origin, the following will repay
research: Die Gräfin Landsfeld (Gustav Bernhard); Lola Montez, Gräfin von Landsfeld (Johann
Deschler); Lola Montez und andere Novellen (Rudolf Ziegler); Lola Montez und die Jesuiten (Dr.
Paul Erdmann); Die spanische Tänzerin und die deutsche Freiheit (J. Beneden); Die Deutsche
Revolution, 1848-1849 (Hans Blum); Ein vormarzliches Tanzidyll (Eduard Fuchs); Abenteur der
beruhmten Tänzerin; Anfang und Ende der Lola Montez in Bayern; Die Munchener Vergange; Unter
den vier ersten Königen Bayerns (Luise von Kobell); and, in particular, the monumental Histeriche
of Heinrich von Treitschke. But one has to milk a hundred cows to get even a pint of Lola Montez
cream.

With a view to gathering at first hand reliable and hitherto unrecorded details, visits have
recently been made by myself to Berlin, Brussels, Dresden, Leningrad, Munich, Paris, and Warsaw,
etc., in each of which capitals some portion of colourful drama of Lola Montez was unfolded.
In a number of directions, however, the result of such investigations proved disappointing.

"Lola Montez--h'm--what sort of man was he?" was the response of a prominent actor, recommended
to me as a "leading authority on anything to do with the stage"; and the secretary of a theatrical
club, anxious to be of help, wrote: "Sorry, but none of our members have any personal reminiscences
of the lady." As she had then been in her grave for more than seventy years, it did not occur
to me that even the senior jeune premier among them would have retained any very vivid recollections
of her. Still, many of them were quite old enough to have heard something of her from their
predecessors.

But valuable assistance in eliciting the real facts connected with the career of this remarkable
woman, and disentangling them from the network of lies and fables in which they have long been
enmeshed, has come from other sources. Among those to whom a special debt must be acknowledged
are Edmund d'Auvergne (author of a carefully documented study), Lola Montez (an Adventuress
of the 'Forties); Gertrude Aretz (author of The Elegant Woman); Bernard Falk (author of The
Naked Lady); Arthur Hornblow (author of A History of the Theatre in America); Harry Price (Hon.
Sec. University of London Council for Psychical Investigation); Philip Richardson (editor of
The Dancing Times); and Constance Rourke (author of Troupers of the Gold Coast); and further
information has been forthcoming from Mrs. Charles Baker (Ruislip), and John Wade (Acton).

Much help in supplying me with important letters and documents and hitherto unpublished particulars
relating to the trail blazed by Lola Montez in America has been furnished by the following:
Miss Mabel R. Gillis (State Librarian, Californian State Library, Sacramento); Mrs. Lillian
Hall (Curator, Harvard Theatre Collection); Miss Ida M. Mellen (New York); Mrs. Helen Putnam
van Sicklen (Library of the Society of Californian Pioneers); Mrs. Annette Tyree (New York);
Mr. John Stapleton Cowley-Brown (New York); Mr. Lewis Chase (Hendersonville); Professor Kenneth
L. Daughrity (Delta State Teachers' College, Cleveland); Mr. Frank Fenton (Stanford University,
California); Mr. Harold E. Gillingham (Librarian, Historical Society of Pennsylvania); Mr.
W. Sprague Holden (Associate-Editor, Argonaut Publishing Company, San Francisco); and Mr. Milton
Lord (Director, Public Library, Boston).

In addition to these experts, I am also indebted to Monsieur Pierre Tugal (Conservateur, Archives
de la Danse, Paris); and to the directors and staffs of the Bibliothèque d'Arsenal, Paris,
and of the Theatrical Museum, Munich, who have generously placed their records at my disposal.

Unlike his American and Continental colleagues, a public librarian in England said (on a postcard)
that he was "too busy to answer questions."

H. W.

       *       *       *       *       *

CONTENTS

FOREWORD

CHAPTER

I.      PRELUDE TO ADVENTURE

II.     "MARRIED IN HASTE"

III.    THE CONSISTORY COURT

IV.     FLARE OF THE FOOTLIGHTS

V.      A PASSIONATE PILGRIMAGE

VI.     AN "AFFAIR OF HONOUR"

VII.    "HOOKING A PRINCE"

VIII.   LUDWIG THE LOVER

IX.     "MAÎTRESSE DU ROI"

X.      BURSTING OF THE STORM

XI.     A FALLEN STAR

XII.    A "LEFT-HANDED" MARRIAGE

XIII.   ODYSSEY

XIV.    THE "GOLDEN WEST"

XV.     "DOWN UNDER"

XVI.    FAREWELL TO THE FOOTLIGHTS

XVII.   THE CURTAIN FALLS

        APPENDIX I. "ARTS OF BEAUTY"

        APPENDIX II. "LOLA MONTEZ' LECTURES"

        INDEX

       *       *       *       *       *

LIST OF ILLUSTRATIONS

LOLA MONTEZ, COUNTESS OF LANDSFELD                   Frontispiece

"JOHN COMPANY" TROOPS ON THE MARCH IN INDIA

HER MAJESTY'S THEATRE, HAYMARKET, WHERE LOLA MONTEZ MADE HER DÉBUT

BENJAMIN LUMLEY, LESSEE OF HER MAJESTY'S THEATRE

LOLA MONTEZ, "SPANISH DANCER." DÉBUT AT HER MAJESTY'S THEATRE

VISCOUNT RANELAGH, WHO ORGANISED A CABAL AGAINST LOLA MONTEZ

ABBÉ LISZT, MUSICIAN AND LOVER

FANNY ELSSLER, PREDECESSOR OF LOLA MONTEZ IN PARIS

PORTE ST. MARTIN THEATRE, PARIS, WHERE LOLA WAS A "FLOP"

SUPPER-PARTY AT LES FRÈRES PROVENÇAUX. FIRST ACT IN A TRAGEDY

RESIDENZ PALACE, MUNICH, IN 1848. RESIDENCE OF LUDWIG I.

"COMMAND" PORTRAIT. IN THE "GALLERY OF BEAUTIES," MUNICH

KING OF BAVARIA. "LUDWIG THE LOVER"

LOLA MONTEZ IN CARICATURE. "LOLA ON THE ALLEMANNEN HOUND"

BERRYMEAD PRIORY, ACTON, WHERE LOLA MONTEZ LIVED WITH CORNET HEALD

LOLA MONTEZ IN LONDON. AGED THIRTY

A "BELLE OF THE BOULEVARDS." LOLA MONTEZ IN PARIS

THE "SPIDER DANCE." CAUSE OF MUCH CRITICISM

LOLA MONTEZ IN "LOLA IN BAVARIA." A "PLAY WITH A PURPOSE"

LOLA AS A LECTURER. FROM STAGE TO PLATFORM

LOLA MONTEZ IN MIDDLE LIFE. A CHARACTERISTIC POSE

"LECTURES AND LIFE." FROM STAGE TO PLATFORM

COUNTESS OF LANDSFELD. A FAVOURITE PORTRAIT

GRAVE OF LOLA MONTEZ, IN GREEN-WOOD CEMETERY, NEW YORK

       *       *       *       *       *

THE MAGNIFICENT MONTEZ

CHAPTER I

PRELUDE TO ADVENTURE

I

In a tearful column, headed "Necrology of the Year," a mid-Victorian obituarist wrote thus
of a woman figuring therein:

     This was one who, notwithstanding her evil ways, had a share
     in some public transactions too remarkable to allow her name
     to be omitted from the list of celebrated persons deceased
     in the year 1861.

     Born of an English or Irish family of respectable rank, at a
     very early age the unhappy girl was found to be possessed of
     the fatal gift of beauty. She appeared for a short time on
     the stage as a dancer (for which degradation her sorrowing
     relatives put on mourning, and issued undertakers' cards to
     signify that she was now dead to them) and then blazed forth
     as the most notorious Paphian in Europe.

     Were this all, these columns would not have included her
     name. But she exhibited some very remarkable qualities. The
     natural powers of her mind were considerable. She had a
     strong will, and a certain grasp of circumstances. Her
     disposition was generous, and her sympathies very large.
     These qualities raised the courtesan to a singular position.
     She became a political influence; and exercised a
     fascination over sovereigns and ministers more widely
     extended than has perhaps been possessed by any other member
     of the demi-monde. She ruled a kingdom; and ruled it,
     moreover, with dignity and wisdom and ability. The political
     Hypatia, however, was sacrificed to the rabble. Her power
     was gone, and she could hope no more from the flattery of
     statesmen. She became an adventuress of an inferior class.
     Her intrigues, her duels, and her horse-whippings made her
     for a time a notoriety in London, Paris, and America.

     Like other celebrated favourites who, with all her personal
     charms, but without her glimpses of a better human nature,
     have sacrificed the dignity of womanhood to a profligate
     ambition, this one upbraided herself in her last moments on
     her wasted life; and then, when all her ambition and vanity
     had turned to ashes, she understood what it was to have been
     the toy of men and the scorn of women.

Altogether a somewhat guarded suggestion of disapproval about the subject of this particular
memoir.

II

Three years after the thunderous echoes of Waterloo had died away, and "Boney," behind a fringe
of British bayonets, was safely interned on the island of St. Helena, there was born in barracks
at Limerick a little girl. On the same day, in distant Bavaria, a sovereign was celebrating
his thirty-fifth birthday. Twenty-seven years later the two were to meet; and from that meeting
much history was to be written.

The little girl who first came on the scene at Limerick was the daughter of one Ensign Edward
Gilbert, a young officer of good Irish family who had married a Señorita Oliverres de Montalva,
"of Castle Oliver, Madrid." At any rate, she claimed to be such, and also that she was directly
descended from Francisco Montez, a famous toreador of Seville. There is a strong presumption,
however, that here she was drawing on her imagination; and, as for the "Castle Oliver" in Sunny
Spain, well, that country has never lacked "castles."

The Oliver family, as pointed out by E. B. d'Auvergne in his carefully documented Adventuresses
and Adventurous Ladies, was really of Irish extraction, and had been settled in Limerick since
the year 1645. "The family pedigree," he says, "reveals no trace of Spanish or Moorish blood."
Further, by the beginning of the last century, the main line had, so far as the union of its
members was blessed by the Church, expired, and no legitimate offspring were left. Gilbert's
spouse, accordingly, must, if a genuine Oliverres, have come into the world with a considerable
blot on her 'scutcheon.

Still, if there were no hidalgos perched on her family tree, Mrs. Gilbert probably had some
good blood in her veins. As a matter of fact, there is some evidence adduced by a distant relative,
Miss D. M. Hodgson, that she was really an illegitimate daughter of an Irishman, Charles Oliver,
of Castle Oliver (now Cloghnafoy), Co. Limerick, and a peasant girl on his estate. This is
possible enough, for the period was one when squires exercised "seigneurial rights," and when
colleens were complacent. If they were not, they had very short shrift.

Mrs. Gilbert's wedding had been a hasty one. Still, not a bit too hasty, since the doctor and
monthly nurse had to be summoned almost before the ink was dry on the register. As a matter
of fact, Mrs. Gilbert must have gone to church in the condition of ladies who love their lords,
for this "pledge of mutual affection" was born in Limerick barracks while the honeymoon was
still in full swing, and within a couple of months of the nuptial knot being tied. She was
christened Marie Dolores Eliza Rosanna, but was at first called by the second of these names.
This, however, being a bit of a mouthful for a small child, she herself soon clipped it to
the diminutive Lola. The name suited her, and it stuck.

While these facts are supported by documentary evidence, they have not been "romantic" enough
to fit in with the views of certain foreign biographers. Accordingly, they have given the child's
birthplace as in, among other cities, Madrid, Lucerne, Constantinople, and Calcutta; and one
of them has even been sufficiently daring to make her a daughter of Lord Byron. Larousse, too,
not to be behindhand, says that she was "born in Seville, of a Spanish father"; and, alternatively,
"in Scotland, of an English father." Both accounts, however, are emphatic that her mother was
"a young Creole of astonishing loveliness, who had married two officers, a Spaniard and an
Englishman."

It was to Edward Gilbert's credit that he had not joined the Army with the King's commission
in his pocket, but in a more humble capacity, that of a private soldier. Gallant service in
the field had won him advancement; and in 1817 he was selected for an ensigncy in the 25th
Foot, thus exchanging his musket and knapsack for the sword and sash of an officer. From the
25th Foot he was, five years later, transferred to the 44th Foot, commanded by Colonel Morrison.
In 1822, its turn coming round for a spell of foreign service, the regiment moved from Dublin
to Chatham and embarked for India. Sailing with his wife and child, the young officer, after
a voyage that lasted the best (or worst) part of six months, landed at Calcutta and went into
barracks at Fort William. On arrival there, "the newcomers," says an account that has been
preserved, "were entertained with lavish hospitality and in a fashion to be compared only with
the festivities pictured in the novels of Charles Lever." But all ranks had strong heads, and
were none the worse for it.

During the ensuing summer the regiment got "the route," and was ordered up country to Dinapore,
a cantonment near Patna, on the Ganges, that had been founded by Warren Hastings. It was an
unhealthy station, especially for youngsters fresh from England. A burning sun by day; hot
stifling nights; and no breath of wind sweeping across the parched ghats. Within a few weeks
the dreaded cholera made its appearance; the melancholy roll of muffled drums was heard every
evening at sunset; and Ensign Gilbert was one of the first victims.

The widow, it is recorded, was "left to the care and protection of Mrs. General Brown," the
wife of the brigadier. But events were already marching to their appointed end; and, as a result,
this charitable lady was soon relieved of her charge.

Left a young widow (not yet twenty-five) with a child of five to bring up, and very little
money on which to do it (for her husband had only drawn 108 rupees a month), the position in
which Mrs. Gilbert found herself was a difficult one. "You can," wrote Lola, years afterwards,
"have but a faint conception of the responsibility." Warm hearts, however, were at hand to
befriend her. The warmest among them was that of a brother officer of her late husband, Lieutenant
Patrick Craigie, of the 38th Native Infantry, then quartered at Dacca. A bachelor and possessed
of considerable private means, he invited her to share his bungalow. The invitation was accepted.
As a result, there was a certain amount of gossip. This, however, was promptly silenced by
a second invitation, also accepted, to share his name; and, in August, 1824, Mrs. Gilbert,
renouncing her mourning and her widowhood, blossomed afresh as Mrs. Craigie. It is said that
the ceremony was performed by Bishop Heber, Metropolitan of Calcutta, who happened to be visiting
Dacca at the time. Very soon afterwards the benedict received a staff appointment as deputy-adjutant-general
at Simla, combined with that of deputy-postmaster at Headquarters. This sent him a step up
the ladder to the rank of captain and brought a welcome addition to his pay. In the opinion
of the station "gup," some of it not too charitable, the widow "had done well for herself."

Captain Craigie, who appears to have been a somewhat Dobbin-like individual, proved an affectionate
husband and step-father. The little girl's prettiness and precocity appealed to him strongly.
He could not do enough for her; and he spoiled her by refusing to check her wayward disposition
and encouraging her mischievous pranks. It was not a good upbringing; and, as dress and "society"
filled the thoughts of her mother, the "Miss Baba" was left very much to the care of the swarms
of native servants attached to the bungalow. She was petted by all with whom she came into
contact, from the gilded staff of Government House down to the humblest sepoy and bearer. Lord
Hastings, the Commander-in-Chief--a rigid disciplinarian who had reintroduced the "cat" when
Lord Minto, his predecessor in office, had abolished it--smiled affably on her. She sat on
the laps of be-medalled generals, veterans of Assaye and Bhurtpore, and pulled their whiskers
unchecked; and she ran wild in the compounds of the civilian big-wigs and mercantile nabobs
who, as was the custom in the days of "John Company," had shaken the pagoda tree to their own
considerable profit. After all, as they said, when any protest filtered through to Leadenhall
Street, what were the natives for, except to be exploited; and busybodies who took them to
task were talking nonsense. Worse, they were "disloyal."

As, however, there were adequate reasons why children could not stop in the country indefinitely,
Lola's step-father, after much anxious consideration, decided that, since she was running wild
and getting into mischief, the best thing to do with her would be to have her brought up by
his relatives in Scotland. A suitable escort having been found and a passage engaged, in the
autumn of 1826 she was sent to Montrose, where his own father, a "venerable man occupying the
position of provost, and sisters were living."

From India to Scotland was a considerable change. Not a change for the better, in the opinion
of the new arrival there. The Montrose household, ruled by Captain Craigie's elderly sisters,
was a dour and strict one, informed by an atmosphere of bleak and chill Calvinism. All enjoyment
was frowned upon; pleasure was "worldly" and had to be severely suppressed. No more petting
and spoiling for the little girl. Instead, a regime of porridge and prayers and unending lessons.
As a result the child was so wretched that, convinced her mother would prove unsympathetic,
she wrote to her step-father, begging to be sent back to him. This, of course, was impossible.
Still, when the letter, blotted with tears, reached him in Calcutta, Captain Craigie's heart
was touched. If she was unhappy among his kinsfolk at Montrose, he would send her somewhere
else. But where? That was the question.

As luck would have it, by the same mail a second letter, offering a solution of the problem,
arrived from an Anglo-Indian friend. This was Sir Jasper Nicolls, K.C.B., a veteran of Assaye
and Bhurtpore, who had settled down in England and wanted a young girl as companion for, and
to be brought up with, his own motherless daughter. The two got into correspondence; and, the
necessary arrangements having been completed, little Lola Gilbert, beside herself with delight,
was in the summer of 1830 packed off to Sir Jasper's house at Bath.

"Are you sorry to leave us?" enquired the eldest Miss Craigie.

"Not a bit," was the candid response.

"Mark my words, Miss, you'll come to a bad ending," predicted the other sourly.

III

But if Bath was to be a "bad ending," it was certainly to be a good beginning. There, instead
of bleakness and constant reproof, Lola found herself wrapped in an atmosphere of warmth and
friendliness. Sir Jasper was kindness itself; and his daughter Fanny made the newcomer welcome.
The two girls took to one another from the first, sharing each other's pleasures as they shared
each other's studies. Thus, they blushed and gushed when required; sewed samplers and copied
texts; learned a little French and drawing; grappled with Miss Mangnall's Questions for the
Use of Young People; practised duets and ballads; touched the strings of the harp; wept over
the poems of "L.E.L."; read Byron surreptitiously, and the newly published Sketches by Boz
openly; admired the "Books of Beauty" and sumptuously bound "Keepsake Annuals," edited by the
Countess of Blessington and the Hon. Mrs. Norton; laughed demurely at the antics of that elderly
figure-of-fun, "Romeo" Coates, when he took the air in the Quadrant; wondered why that distinguished
veteran, Sir Charles Napier, made a point of cutting Sir Jasper Nicolls; curtsied to the little
Princess Victoria, then staying at the York Hotel, and turned discreetly aside when the Duchess
de Berri happened to pass; and (since they were not entirely cloistered) attended, under the
watchful eye of a governess, "select" concerts in the Assembly Rooms (with Catalini and Garsia
in the programmes) and an occasional play at the Theatre Royal, where from time to time they
had a glimpse of Fanny Kemble and Kean and Macready; and, in short, followed the approved curriculum
of young ladies of their position in the far off-days when William IV was King.

Although Sir Jasper had a hearty and John Bullish contempt for foreigners--and especially for
the "Froggies" he had helped to drub at Waterloo--he felt that they, none the less, had their
points; and that they were born on the wrong side of the Channel was their misfortune, rather
than their fault. Accordingly, there was an interval in Paris, where the two girls were sent
to learn French. There, in addition to a knowledge of the language, Lola acquired a technique
that was afterwards to prove valuable amid other and very different surroundings. If de Mirecourt
(a far from reliable authority) is to be believed, she was also, during this period, presented
to King Charles X by the British Ambassador. On the evidence of dates, however, this could
not have been the case, for Charles had relinquished his sceptre and fled to England long before
Lola arrived in the country.

After an interval, Sir Jasper felt that he ought to slip across to Paris himself, if only to
make sure that his daughter and ward were "not getting into mischief, or having their heads
filled with ideas." No sooner said than done and, posting to Dover, he took the packet. Having
relieved his mind as to the welfare of the two girls, he turned his attention to other matters.
As he had anticipated, a number of his old comrades who had settled in Paris gave him a warm
welcome and readily undertook to "show him round." He enjoyed the experience. Life was pleasant
there, and the theatres and cafés were attractive and a change from the austerities of Bath.
The ladies, too, whom he encountered when he smoked his cheroot in the Palais Royal gardens,
smiled affably on the "English Milord." Some of them, with very little encouragement, did more.
"No nonsense about waiting for introductions."

But, despite its amenities, Paris in the early 'thirties was not altogether a suitable resort
for British visitors. The political atmosphere was distinctly ruffled. Revolution was in the
air. Sir Jasper sniffed the coming changes; and was tactician enough to avoid being engulfed
in the threatened maelstrom by slipping back to England with his young charges in the nick
of time. Others of his compatriots, not so fortunate or so discreet, found themselves clapped
into French prisons.

Returning to the tranquillity of Bath, things resumed their normal course. Sir Jasper nursed
his gout (changing his opinion of French cooking, to which he attributed a fresh attack) and
the girls picked up the threads they had temporarily dropped.

Always responsive to her environment, Lola expanded quickly in the sympathetic atmosphere of
the Nicolls household. Before long, Montrose, with its "blue Scotch Calvinism," was but a memory.
Instead of being snubbed and scolded, she was petted and encouraged. As a result, she grew
cheerful and vivacious, full of high spirits and laughter. Perhaps because of her mother's
Spanish blood, she matured early. At sixteen she was a woman. A remarkably attractive one,
too, giving--with her raven tresses, long-lashed violet eyes, and graceful figure--promise
of the ripe beauty for which she was afterwards to be distinguished throughout two hemispheres.
Of a romantic disposition, she, naturally enough, had her affaires. Several of them, as it
happened. One of them was with an usher, who had slipped amorous missives into her prayer-book.
Greatly daring, he followed this up by bearding Sir Jasper in his den and asking permission
to "pay his addresses" to his ward. The warrior's response was unconciliatory. Still, he could
not be angry when, on being challenged, the girl laughed at him.

"Egad!" he declared. "But, before long, Miss, you'll be setting all the men by the ears."

Prophetic words.

IV

During the interval that elapsed since they last met, Mrs. Craigie had troubled herself very
little about the child she had sent to England. When, however, she received her portrait from
Sir Jasper, together with a glowing description of her attractiveness and charm, the situation
assumed a fresh aspect. Lola, she felt, had become an asset, instead of an anxiety; and, as
such, must make a "good" marriage. Bath swarmed with detrimentals, and there was a risk of
a pretty girl, bereft of a mother's watchful care, being snapped up by one of them. Possibly,
a younger son, without a penny with which to bless himself. A shuddering prospect for an ambitious
mother. Obviously, therefore, the thing to do was to get her daughter out to India and marry
her off to a rich husband. The richer, the better.

Mrs. Craigie went to work in business-like fashion, and cast a maternal eye over the "eligibles"
she met at Government House. The one among them she ultimately selected as a really desirable
son-in-law was a Calcutta judge, Sir Abraham Lumley. It was true he was more than old enough
to be the girl's father, and was distinctly liverish. But this, she felt, was beside the point,
since he had accumulated a vast number of rupees, and would, before long, retire on a snug pension.

Sir Abraham was accordingly sounded. Hardened bachelor as he was, a single glance at Lola's
portrait was enough to send his blood-pressure up to fever heat. In positive rapture at the
idea of such fresh young loveliness becoming his, he declared himself ready to change his condition,
and discussed handsome settlements.

With everything thus cut and dried, as she considered, Mrs. Craigie took the next step in her
programme. This was to leave India for England, during the autumn of 1836, and tell Lola of
the "good news" in store for her. She was then to bring her back to Calcutta and the expectant
arms of Sir Abraham.

Honest Captain Craigie looked a little dubious when he was consulted.

"Perhaps she won't care about him," he suggested.

"Fiddlesticks!" retorted his wife. "Any girl would jump at the chance of being Lady Lumley.
Think of the position."

"I'm thinking of Lola," he said.

CHAPTER II

"MARRIED IN HASTE"

I

Among the passengers accompanying Mrs. Craigie on the long voyage to Southampton was a Lieutenant
Thomas James, a debonair young officer of the Bengal Infantry, who made himself very agreeable
to her and with whom he exchanged many confidences. He was going home on a year's sick leave;
and at the suggestion of his ship-board acquaintance he decided to spend the first month of
it in Bath.

"It's time I settled down," he said. "Who knows, but I might pick up a wife in Bath and take
her back to India with me."

"Who knows," agreed Mrs. Craigie, her match-making instincts aroused. "Bath is full of pretty
girls."

The meeting between mother and daughter developed very differently from the lines on which
she had planned it. Contrary to what she had expected, Lola did not evince any marked readiness
to fall in with them. Quite undazzled by the prospects of becoming Lady Lumley, and reclining
on Sir Abraham's elderly bosom, she even went so far as to dub the learned judge a "gouty old
rascal," and declared that nothing would induce her to marry him. Neither reproaches nor arguments
had any effect. Nor would she exhibit the smallest interest in the trousseau for which (but
without her knowledge) lavish orders had been given.

Poor Mrs. Craigie could scarcely believe her ears. For a daughter to run counter to the wishes
of her mother, and to snap her fingers at the chance of marrying a "title," was something she
had considered impossible. What on earth were girls coming to, she wondered. Either the Paris
"finishing school" or the Bath air had gone to her head. The times were out of joint, and the
theory that daughters did what they were told was being rudely upset. It was all very disturbing.

In her astonishment and annoyance, Mrs. Craigie took to her bed. However, she did not stop
there long, for prompt measures had to be adopted. As it was useless to tackle Sir Jasper Nicolls
(whom she held responsible for the upset to her plans) she sought counsel of somebody else.
This was her military friend, who, as luck would have it, was still lingering in Bath, where
he had evidently discovered some special attraction. After all, he was a "man of the world"
and would know what to do. Accordingly, she summoned him to a consultation, and unburdened
her mind on the subject of Lola's "oddness."

"Of course, the girl's mad," she declared. "Nothing else would account for it. Can you imagine
any girl in her senses turning up her nose at such a match? I never heard such rubbish. I'm
sure I don't know what Sir Abraham will say. He expects her to join him in Calcutta by the
end of the year. As a matter of fact, I've already booked her passage. The wedding is to be
from our house there. Something will have to be done. The question is, what?"

"Leave it to me," was the airy response. "I'll talk to her."

Thomas James did "talk." He talked to some effect, but not at all in the fashion Mrs. Craigie
had intended. Expressing sympathy with Lola, he declared himself entirely on her side. She
was much too young and pretty and attractive, he said, to dream for an instant of marrying
a man who was old enough to be her grandfather, and bury herself in India. The idea was ridiculous.
He had a much better plan to offer. When Lola, smiling through her tears, asked him what it
was, he said that she must run away with him and they would get married. Thus the problem of
her future would be solved automatically.

The luxuriant whiskers and dashing air of Lieutenant Thomas James did their work. Further,
the suggestion was just the sort of thing that happened to heroines in novels. Lola Gilbert,
young and romantic and inexperienced, succumbed. Watching her opportunity, she slipped out
of the house early the next morning. Her lover had a post-chaise in readiness, and they set
off in it for Bristol. There they took the packet and crossed over to Ireland, where James
had relatives, who, he promised, would look after her until their marriage should be accomplished.

"Elopement in High Life!" A tit-bit of gossip for the tea-tables and for the bucks at the clubs.
No longer a sleepy hollow. Bath was in the "news."

It was not until they were gone that Mrs. Craigie discovered what had happened. Her first reaction
was one of furious indignation. This, however, was natural, for not only had her ambitious
project gone astray, but she had been deceived by the very man she had trusted. It was more
than enough to upset anybody, especially as she was also confronted with the unpleasant task
of writing to Sir Abraham Lumley, and telling him what had happened. As a result, she announced
that she would "wash her hands" of the pair of them.

While it was one thing to run away, it was, as Lola soon discovered, another thing to get married.
An unexpected difficulty presented itself, as the parish priest whom they consulted refused
to perform the ceremony for so young a girl without being first assured of her mother's consent.
Mrs. Craigie, erupting tears and threats, declined to give it. Thereupon, James's married sister,
Mrs. Watson, sprang into the breach and pointed out that "things have gone so far that it is
now too late to draw back, if scandal is to be avoided." The argument was effective; and, a
reluctant consent having been secured, on July 23, 1837, the "position was regularised" by
the bridegroom's brother, the Rev. John James, vicar of Rathbiggon, County Meath. "Thomas James,
bachelor, Lieutenant, 21st Bengal Native Infantry, and Rose Anna Gilbert, condition, spinster,"
was the entry on the certificate.

After a short honeymoon in Dublin, first at the Shamrock Hotel, and then in rather squalid
lodgings (for cash was not plentiful), Lola was taken back to her husband's relatives. They
lived in a dull Irish village on the edge of a peat bog, where the young bride found existence
very boring. Then, too, when the glamour of the elopement had dimmed, it was obvious that her
action in running away from Bath had been precipitate. Thomas, for all his luxuriant whiskers
and dash, was, she reflected sadly, "nothing but the outside shell of a man, with neither a
brain that she could respect nor a heart she could love." A sorry awakening from the dreams
in which she had indulged. As a matter of fact, they had nothing in common. The husband, who
was sixteen years his wife's senior, cared for little but hunting and drinking, and Lola's
tastes were mainly for dancing and flirting.

It was in Dublin, where, much to her satisfaction, her spouse was ordered on temporary duty,
that she discovered a ready outlet for these activities.

"Dear dirty Dublin" was, to Lola's way of thinking, a vast improvement on Rathbiggon. At any
rate, there was "society," smart young officers and rising politicians, instead of clodhopping
squireens and village boors, to talk to, and shops where the new fashions could be examined,
and theatres with real London actors and actresses. If only she had had a little money to spend,
she would have been perfectly happy. But Tom James had nothing beyond his pay, which scarcely
kept him in cheroots and car fares. Still, this did not prevent him running up debts.

The Lord Lieutenant of Ireland at that period was the Earl of Mulgrave ("the Elegant Mulgrave"),
afterwards Marquess of Normanby. A great admirer of pretty women, and fond of exercising the
Viceregal privilege of kissing attractive débutantes, the drawing-rooms at the Castle were
popular functions under his regime. He showed young Mrs. James much attention. The aides-de-camp,
prominent among whom were Bernal Osborne and Francis Sheridan, followed the example thus set
them by their chief; and tickets for balls and concerts and dinner-parties and drums and routs
were showered upon her.

Thinking that these compliments and attentions were being overdone, Lieutenant James took them
amiss and elected to become jealous. He talked darkly of "calling out" one of his wife's admirers.
But before there could be any early morning pistol-play in the Phoenix Park, an unexpected
solution offered itself. Trouble was suddenly threatened on the Afghan frontier; and, in the
summer of 1837, all officers on leave from India were ordered to rejoin their regiments. Welcoming
the prospect of thus renewing her acquaintance with a country of which she still had pleasant
memories, Lola set to work to pack her trunks.

If she had followed the advice of a certain "travellers' handbook," written by Miss Emma Roberts,
that was then very popular, she must have had a considerable amount of baggage. Thus, according
to this authority, the "List of Necessaries for a Lady on a Voyage from England to India" included,
among other items, the following articles: "72 chemises; 36 nightcaps; 70 pocket-handkerchiefs;
30 pairs of drawers (or combinations, at choice); 15 petticoats; 60 pairs of stockings; 45
pairs of gloves; at least 20 dresses of different texture; 12 shawls and parasols; and 3 bonnets
and 15 morning caps, together with biscuits and preserves at discretion, and a dozen boxes
of aperient pills." Nothing omitted. Provision for all contingencies.

Officers were also required to provide themselves with an elaborate outfit. Thus, the list
recommended in the East India Voyage gives, among other necessary items, "72 calico shirts;
60 pairs of stockings; 18 pairs of drawers; 24 pairs of gloves; and 20 pairs of trousers";
together with uniform, saddlery, and camp equipment; and such odds and ends as "60 lbs. of
wax candles and several bottles of ink." Nothing, however, about red-tape.

A helpful hint furnished by Miss Roberts was that "A lady on ship-board, spruced up for the
Park or the Opera, would only be an object of ridicule to her experienced companions. Frippery
which would be discarded in England is often useful in India. Members of my sex," she adds,
"who have to study economy, can always secure bargains by acquiring at small cost items of
fashion which, while outmoded in London, will be new enough by the time they reach Calcutta."

A lady with such sound views on managing the domestic budget as Miss Emma Roberts should not
have remained long in single blessedness.

II

Those were not the days of ocean greyhounds, covering the distance between England and India
in a couple of weeks. Nor was there then any Suez Canal route to shorten the long miles that
had to be traversed. Thus, when Lola and her spouse embarked from England in an East Indiaman,
the voyage took nearly five months to accomplish, with calls at Madeira, St. Helena, and the
Cape, before the welcome cry, "Land Ahead!" was heard and anchor was dropped at Calcutta.

Lola's first acquaintance with India's coral strand had been made as a child of five. Now she
was returning as a married woman. Yet she was scarcely eighteen. She did not stop in Calcutta
long, for her husband's regiment was in the Punjaub, and a peremptory message from the brigadier
required him to rejoin as soon as possible. It was at Kurnaul (as it was then spelled) that
Lola began her experience of garrison life. Among the other officers she met there was a young
subaltern of the Bengal Artillery, who, in the years to come, was to make a name for himself
as "Lawrence of Lucknow."

The year 1838 was, for both the Company's troops and the Queen's Army, an eventful one where
India was concerned. During the spring Lord Auckland, the newly-appointed Governor-General,
hatched the foolish and ill-conceived policy which led to the first Afghan war. His idea (so
far as he had one) was, with the help of Brown Bess and British bayonets, to replace Dost Muhammed,
who had sat on the throne there for twenty years without giving any real trouble, by an incompetent
upstart of his own nomination, Shah Shuja.

Lieutenant James's regiment, the 21st Bengal Native Infantry, was among those selected to join
the expeditionary force appointed to "uphold the prestige of the British Raj"; and, as was
the custom at that time, Lola, mounted on an elephant (which she shared with the colonel's
better half), and followed by a train of baggage camels and a pack of foxhounds complete, accompanied
her husband to the frontier. The other ladies included Mrs. McNaghten and Mrs. Robert Sale
and the Governor-General's two daughters. It is just possible that Macaulay had a glimpse of
Lola, for a contemporary letter says that "he turned out to wish the party farewell."

The "Army of the Indus" was given a good send off by a loyal native prince, Ranjeet Singh (the
"Lion of the Punjaub"), who, on their march up country, entertained the column in a rest-camp
at Lahore with "showy pageants and gay doings," among which were nautch dances, cock-fights,
and theatricals. He meant well, no doubt, but he contrived to upset a chaplain, who declared
himself shocked that a "bevy of dancing prostitutes should appear in the presence of the ladies
of the family of a British Governor-General." Judging from a luscious account that Lola gives
of a big durbar, to which all the officers and their wives were bidden, these strictures were
not unjustifiable. Thus, after Lord Auckland ("in sky blue inexpressibles") and his host had
delivered patriotic speeches (with florid allusions to the "British Raj," the "Sahib Log,"
and the "Great White Queen," and all the rest of it) gifts were distributed among the assembled
company. Some of these were of an embarrassing description, since they took the form of "beautiful
Circassian slave maidens, covered with very little beyond precious gems." To the obvious annoyance,
however, of a number of prospective recipients, "the Rajah was officially informed that English
custom and military regulations alike did not permit Her Majesty's warriors to accept such
tokens of goodwill."

But, if they could not receive them, the guests had to make presents in turn, and Ranjeet Singh
for his part had no qualms about accepting them. With true Oriental politeness, and "without
moving a muscle," he registered rapture at a "miscellaneous collection of imitation gold and
silver trinkets and rusty old pistols offered him on behalf of the Honourable East India Company."

A correspondent of the Calcutta Englishman was much impressed. "The particular gift," he says,
"before which the Maharajah bent with the devotion of a preux chevalier was a full-length portrait
of our gracious little Queen, from the brush of the Hon. Miss Eden herself."

In a letter from Lord Auckland's military secretary, the Hon. William Osborne, there is an
account of these doings at Lahore:

     Ranjeet has entertained us all most handsomely. No one in
     the camp is allowed to purchase a single thing; and a list
     is sent round twice a week in which you put down just what
     you require, and it is furnished at his expense. It costs
     him 25,000 rupees a day. Nothing could exceed his liberality
     and friendship during the whole of the Governor-General's
     visit.

A second durbar, held at Simla, was accompanied by much florid imagery, all of which had to
be interpreted for the benefit of Lord Auckland. "It took a quarter of an hour," says his sister,
"to satisfy him about the Maharajah's health, and to ascertain that the roses had bloomed in
the garden of friendship, and the nightingales had sung in the bowers of affection sweeter
than ever since the two Powers had approached each other."

The Afghan campaign, as ill conceived as it was ill carried out, followed its appointed course.
That is to say, it was punctuated by "regrettable incidents" and quarrels among the generals
(two of whom, Sir Henry Fane and Sir John Keane, were not on speaking terms); and, with the
Afghans living to fight another day, a "success for British arms" was announced. Thereupon,
the column returned to India, bands playing, elephants trumpeting a salute, and guns thundering
a welcome. "The war," declared His Excellency (who had received an earldom) in an official
despatch, "is all over." Unfortunately, however, it was all over Afghanistan, with the result
that there had to be another campaign in the following year. This time, not even Lord Auckland's
imagination could call it "successful."

"There will be a great deal of prize money," was the complacent fashion in which Miss Eden
summed up the situation. "Another man has been put on the Khelat throne, so that business is
finished." But it was not finished. It was only just beginning. "Within six months," says Edward
Thompson, "Khelat was recaptured by a son of the slain Khan, Lord Auckland's puppet ejected,
and the English commander of the garrison murdered."

Although the expedition that followed was the subject of a highly eulogistic despatch from
the Commander-in-Chief and the big-wigs at headquarters, a number of "regrettable incidents"
were officially admitted. As a result, a regiment of Light Cavalry was disbanded, "as a punishment
for poltroonery in the hour of trial and the dastards struck off the Army List."

"To you I shall commit this glorious trophy of successful war. You will yourselves with all
honour transmit the gates of sandalwood to the restored Temple of Somnauth.

"May that good Providence, which has hitherto so manifestly protected me, still extend to me
its favour, that I may so use the power entrusted to my hands to advance your prosperity and
happiness by placing the union of our two countries upon foundations that may render it eternal."

There was a good deal more in a similar style, for his lordship loved composing florid despatches.
But this one had a bad reception when it was sent home to England. "At this puerile piece of
business," says the plain spoken Stocqueler, "the commonsense of the British community at large
revolted. The ministers of religion protested against it as a most unpardonable homage to an
idolatrous temple. Ridiculed by the Press of India and England, and laughed at by the members
of his own party in Parliament, Lord Ellenborough halted the gates at Agra, and postponed the
completion of the monstrous folly he had more than begun to perpetrate."

Severe as was this criticism, it was not unmerited. Ellenborough's theatrical bombast, like
that of Napoleon at the Pyramids, recoiled upon him, bringing a hornets' nest about his own
ears and leading to his recall. As a matter of fact, too, the gates which he held in such reverence
were found to be replicas of the pair that the Sultan Mahmood had pilfered from Somnauth; and
were not of sandalwood at all, but of common deal.

III

While following the drum from camp to camp and from station to station, Lola spent several
months in Bareilly, a town that was afterwards to play an important part in the Mutiny. Colonel
Durand, an officer who was present when the city was captured in 1858, says that the bungalow
she occupied there was destroyed. Yet, the mutineers, he noticed, had spared the bath house
that had been built for her in the compound.

During the hot weather of 1839, young Mrs. James, accompanied by her husband, went off to Simla
for a month on a visit to her mother, who, yielding to pressure, had at last held out the olive-branch.
The welcome, however--except from Captain Craigie, who still had a warm corner in his heart
for her--was somewhat frigid.

There is a reference to this visit in Up the Country, a once popular book by Lord Auckland's
sister, the Hon. Emily Eden. Following the coy fashion of the period, however, she always refrained
from giving a name in full, but would merely allude to people as "Colonel A," "Mr. B," "Mrs.
C," and "Miss D," etc. Still, the identities of "Mrs. J" and "Mrs. C" in this extract are clear
enough:

     September 8, 1839.

     Simla is much moved just now by the arrival of a Mrs. J, who
     has been talked of as a great beauty all the year, and that
     drives every other woman quite distracted.... Mrs. J is the
     daughter of a Mrs. C, who is still very handsome herself,
     and whose husband is deputy-adjutant-general, or some
     military authority of that kind. She sent this only child to
     be educated at home, and went home herself two years ago to
     see her. In the same ship was Mr. J, a poor ensign, going
     home on sick leave. He told her he was engaged to be
     married, consulted her about his prospects, and in the
     meantime privately married this child at school. It was
     enough to provoke any mother; but, as it now cannot be
     helped, we have all been trying to persuade her for the last
     year to make it up. She has withstood it till now, but at
     last has consented to ask them for a month, and they arrived
     three days ago.

     The rush on the road was remarkable. But nothing could be
     more satisfactory than the result, for Mrs. J looked
     lovely, and Mrs. C has set up for her a very grand jonpaun,
     with bearers in fine orange and brown liveries; and J is a
     sort of smart-looking man with bright waistcoats and bright
     teeth, with a showy horse, and he rode along in an attitude
     of respectful attention to ma belle mère. Altogether, it
     was an imposing sight, and I cannot see any way out of it
     but magnanimous admiration.

During this visit to Simla the couple were duly bidden to dine at Auckland House, on Elysium
Hill, where they met His Excellency.

"We had a dinner yesterday," wrote their hostess. "Mrs. J is undoubtedly very pretty, and such
a merry unaffected girl. She is only seventeen now, and does not look so old; and when one
thinks that she is married to a junior lieutenant in the Indian Army, fifteen years older than
herself, and that they have 160 rupees a month, and are to pass their whole lives in India,
I do not wonder at Mrs. C's resentment at her having run away from school."

Writing to Lady Teresa Lister in England, Miss Eden gives an entertaining account of Simla
at this date:

     Everybody has been pleased and amused, except the two
     clergymen who are here, and who have begun a course of
     sermons against what they call a destructive torrent of
     worldly gaiety. They had much better preach against the
     destructive torrent of rain which has now set in for the
     next three months, and not only washes away all gaiety, but
     all the paths, in the literal sense, which lead to it.... I
     do not count Simla as any grievance--nice climate, beautiful
     place, constant fresh air, plenty of fleas, not much
     society, everything that is desirable.

In another letter, this indefatigable correspondent remarks:

     Here, society is not much trouble, nor much anything else.
     We give sundry dinners and occasional balls, and have hit
     upon one popular device. Our band plays twice a week on one
     of the hills here, and we send ices and refreshments to the
     listeners, and it makes a nice little reunion with very
     little trouble.

       *       *       *       *       *

A further reference to the amenities of Government House at Simla during the Aucklands' regime
is instructive, as showing that it was not a case of all work and no play:

There are about ninety-six ladies here whose husbands are gone to the wars, and about twenty-six
gentlemen--at least, there will, with good luck, be about that number. We have a very dancing
set of aides-de-camp just now, and they are utterly desperate at the notion of our having no
balls. I suppose we must begin on one in a fortnight; but it will be difficult, and there are
several young ladies here with whom some of our gentlemen are much smitten. As they will have
no rivals here, I am horribly afraid the flirtations may become serious, and then we shall
lose some active aides-de-camp, and they will find themselves on ensign's pay with a wife to
keep. However, they will have these balls, so it is not my fault.

       *       *       *       *       *

After she had left Simla and its round of gaieties, Lola was to have another meeting with the
hospitable Aucklands. This took place in camp at Kurnaul, "a great ugly cantonment, all barracks
and dust and guns and soldiers." Miss Eden, who was accompanying her brother on a tour through
the district, wrote to her sister in England:

November 13, 1839.

     We were at home in the evening, and it was an immense party;
     but, except that pretty Mrs. J, who was at Simla, and who
     looked like a star among the others, the women were all
     plain.

A couple of days later, she added some further particulars:

     We left Kurnaul yesterday morning. Little Mrs. J was so
     unhappy at our going that we asked her to come and pass
     the day here, and brought her with us. She went from tent to
     tent and chattered all day and visited her friend, Mrs. M,
     who is with the camp. I gave her a pink silk gown, and it
     was altogether a very happy day for her evidently. It ended
     in her going back to Kurnaul on my elephant, with E.N. by
     her side, and Mr. J sitting behind. She had never been on an
     elephant before, and thought it delightful.

     She is very pretty, and a good little thing apparently. But
     they are very poor, and she is very young and lively, and if
     she falls into bad hands, she would laugh herself into
     foolish scrapes. At present the husband and wife are very
     fond of each other, but a girl who marries at fifteen hardly
     knows what she likes.

When she wrote this passage, Miss Eden might have been a Sibyl, for her words were to become
abundantly true.

IV

Except when on active service, officers of the Company's Army were not overworked. Everything
was left to the sergeants and corporals; and, while Thomas Atkins and Jack Sepoy trudged in
the dust and sweated and drilled in their absurd stocks and tight tunics, the commissioned
ranks, lolling in barracks, killed the long hours as they pleased.

Following form, Captain James (the Afghan business had brought him a step in rank) did a certain
amount of tiger-shooting and pig-sticking, and a good deal of brandy-swilling, combined with
card-playing and gambling. As a husband, he was not a conspicuous success. "He slept," complained
Lola, feeling herself neglected, "like a boa-constrictor," and, during the intervals of wakefulness,
"drank too much porter." The result was, there were quarrels, instead of love-making, for they
both had tempers.

"Runaway matches, like runaway horses," Lola had once written, "are almost sure to end in a
smash-up." In this case there was a "smash-up," for Tom James was not always sleeping and drinking.
He had other activities. If fond of a glass, he was also fond of a lass. The one among them
for whom he evinced a special fondness was a Mrs. Lomer, the wife of a brother officer, the
adjutant of his regiment. His partiality was reciprocated.

One morning when, without any suspicion of what was in store for them, Mrs. James and Adjutant
Lomer sat down to their chota-hazree, two members of the accustomed breakfast party were missing.
Enquiries having been set on foot, the fact was elicited that Captain James and Mrs. Lomer
had gone out for an early ride. It must have been a long one, thought the camp, as they did
not appear at dinner that evening. Messengers sent to look for them came back with a disturbing
report. This was to the effect that the couple had slipped off to the Nilgiri Hills and had
decided to stop there.

The next morning a panting native brought a letter from the errant lady addressed to her furious
spouse. This missive is (without explaining how he got it) reproduced by an American journalist,
T. Everett Harré, in a series of articles, The Heavenly Sinner: "I suggest," runs an extract,
"you come to your senses and give me my freedom ... I am going with a man of parts who knows
how to give a woman the attentions she craves, and is himself glad to shake off a young chit
of a wife who is too brainless to appreciate him."

A first-class sensation. The entire cantonment throbbed and buzzed with excitement. The colonel
fumed; the adjutant cursed; and there was talk of bringing the Don Juan Captain James to a
court-martial for "conduct unbecoming an officer and a gentleman." But Lola, as was her custom,
took it philosophically, doubtless reflecting that she was well rid of a spouse for whom she
no longer cared, and went back to her mother in Calcutta.

Mrs. Craigie's maternal heart-strings should have been wrung by the unhappy position of her
daughter. They were not wrung. The clandestine marriage, with the upsetting of her own plans,
still rankled and remained unforgiven and unforgotten. As a result, when she asked for shelter
and sympathy, Lola received a very frigid welcome. Her step-father, however, took her part,
and declared that his bungalow was open to her until other arrangements could be made for her
future. Not being possessed of much imagination, his idea was that she should leave India temporarily
and stop for a few months in Scotland with his brother, Mr. David Craigie, a man of substance
and Provost of Perth. After an interval for reflection there, he felt that the differences
of opinion that had arisen between her husband and herself would become adjusted, and the young
couple resume marital relations. Accordingly, he wrote to his brother, asking him to meet her
when she arrived in London and escort her to Perth.

Lola, however, while professing complete agreement, had other views as to her future. She wanted
neither a reconciliation with her husband nor a second experience of life with the Craigie
family in Scotland. One such had been more than sufficient, but she was careful not to breathe
a word on the subject. She kept her own counsel, and matured her own plans.

CHAPTER III

THE CONSISTORY COURT

I

Sailing from Calcutta for London in an East Indiaman, at the end of 1840, Lola was consigned
by her step-father to the "special care" of a Mrs. Sturgis who was among the passengers. He
obviously felt the parting. "Big salt tears," says Lola, "coursed down his cheeks," when he
wished her a last farewell. He also gave her his blessing; and, what was more negotiable, a
cheque for £1000. The two never met again.

But although she had left India's coral strand, a memory of her lingered there for many years.
In this connection, Sir Walter Lawrence says that he once found himself in a cantonment that
had been deserted so long that it was swallowed up by the ever advancing jungle. "A wizened
villager," he says, "recalled a high-spirited and beautiful girl, the young wife of an officer,
who would creep up and push him into the water. 'Ah,' he said, with a smile of affection, 'she
was a badmash, but she was always very kind to me.' She was better known afterwards as Lola
Montez."

At Madras a number of fresh comers joined the good ship Larkins in which Lola was proceeding
to England. Among them was a certain Captain Lennox, aide-de-camp to Lord Elphinstone, the
Governor. An agreeable young man, and very different from the missionaries and civil servants
who formed the bulk of the other male passengers. Lola and himself were soon on good terms.
"Too good," was the acid comment of the ladies in whose society Captain Lennox exhibited no
interest. The couple were inseparable. They sat at the same table in the saloon; they paced
the deck together, arm in arm, on the long hot nights, preferring dark and unfrequented corners;
their chairs adjoined; their cabins adjoined; and, so the shocked whisper ran, they sometimes
mistook the one for the other.

"Anybody can make a mistake in the dark," said Lola, when Mrs. Sturgis, remembering Captain
Craigie's injunctions, and resolved at all costs to fulfil her trust, ventured on a remonstrance.

Ninety years ago, travellers had to "rough it;" and the conditions governing a voyage from
India to England were very different from those that now obtain. None of the modern amenities
had any place in the accepted routine. Thus, no deck sports; no jazz band; no swimming-pool;
no cocktail bar; not even a sweepstake on the day's run.

But time had to be killed; and, as a young grass widow, Mrs. James felt that flirting was the
best way of getting through it. Captain Lennox was the only man on board ship with whom she
had anything in common. He was sympathetic, good-looking, and attentive. Also, he swore that
he was "madly in love with her." The old, old story; but it did its work. Before the vessel
berthed in London docks, Lola had come to a decision. A momentous decision. She would give
David Craigie the slip, and, listening to his blandishments, cast in her lot with George Lennox.

"I'll look after you," he said reassuringly. "Trust me for that, my dear."

Lola did trust him. In fact, she trusted him to such an extent that, on reaching London, she
stopped with him at the Imperial Hotel in Covent Garden; and then, when the manageress of that
establishment took upon herself to make pointed criticisms, at his rooms in Pall Mall.

Naturally enough, this sort of thing could not be hushed up for long. Meaning nods and winks
greeted the dashing Lennox when he appeared at his club. Tongues wagged briskly. Some of them
even wagged in distant Calcutta, where they were heard by Lola's husband. Ignoring his own
amorous dalliance with a brother officer's spouse, he elected to feel injured. Resolved to
assert himself, he got into touch with his London solicitors and instructed them to take the
preliminary steps to dissolve his marriage. The first of these was to bring an action for what
was then politely dubbed "crim. con." against the man he alleged to have "wronged" him.

The lawyers would not be hurried; and things moved in leisurely fashion. Still, they moved
to their appointed end; and, the necessary red tape being unwound, interrogatories administered,
and the evidence of prying chambermaids and hotel servants collected and examined, in May,
1841, the case of James v. Lennox got into the list and was heard by Lord Denman and a special
jury in the Court of Queen's Bench. Sir William Follett, the Solicitor-General, was briefed
on behalf of the plaintiff, and Frederick Thesiger appeared for Captain Lennox.

In his opening address, Sir William Follett (who had not been too well instructed) told the
jury that the petitioner and his wife "had lived very happily together in India, and that the
return of Mrs. James to England was due to a fall from her horse at Calcutta." While on the
passage home, he continued, pulling out his vox humana stop, the ship touched at Madras, where
the defendant came on board; and, "during the long voyage, an intimacy sprang up between Mrs.
James and himself which developed in a fashion that left the outraged husband no choice but
to institute the present proceedings to recover damages for having been wantonly robbed of
the affection and society of his consort."

At this point, counsel for Captain Lennox (who, in pusillanimous fashion, had loved and sailed
away, rather than stop and help the woman he had compromised) cut short his learned friend's
tearful eloquence by admitting that he was prepared to accept a verdict, with £1000 damages.
As the judge agreed, the case was abruptly terminated.

This, however, was only the first round. In December of the following year, the next step was
adopted, and a suit for divorce was commenced in the Consistory Court. As neither Mrs. James
nor the Lothario-like Captain Lennox put in an appearance, Dr. Lushington, declaring himself
satisfied that misconduct had been committed, pronounced a decree a mensa et thoro. All that
this amounted to was merely a judicial separation.

The report in The Times only ran to a dozen lines. Considering that the paper cost fivepence
a copy, this was not a very liberal allowance. Still, readers had better value in respect of
another action in "high life" that was heard the same day, that of Lord and Lady Graves, which
had a full column allotted it.

II

This was all that the public knew of the case. It did not seem much on which to blast a young
wife's reputation. Dr. Lushington, the judge of the Consistory Court, however, knew a good
deal more about the business than did the general public. This was because, during the preliminary
hearing, held some months earlier and attended only by counsel and solicitors, a number of
damaging facts had transpired.

Mrs. James, said learned counsel for the petitioner, had "been guilty of behaviour at which
a crocodile would tremble and blush." A serious charge to bring against a young woman. Still,
in answer to the judge, he professed himself equipped with ample evidence to support it. His
first witness was a retired civil servant, a Mr. Browne Roberts, who had known the respondent's
husband, first, as a bachelor in India, and afterwards as a married man in Dublin. At the beginning
of 1841, he had received a call, he said, from a Major McMullen to whom Captain Craigie had
written, asking him to take charge of his step-daughter on her arrival in London and see her
off to his relatives in Scotland. When, however, the major offered this hospitality, it was
refused. Thereupon, Mr. Roberts had himself called at the Imperial Hotel, Covent Garden, and
suggested that she should come and stop with his wife; and this invitation was also refused.

Not much in this perhaps, but a good deal in what followed. Mrs. Elizabeth Walters, the manageress
of the Imperial Hotel, said that on February 21, 1841, "a lady and gentleman arrived in a hackney
cab, with luggage marked G. Lennox and Mrs. James, and booked a double room." Mrs. Walters
had not, she admitted, "actually discovered them undressed, or sharing the bed," but "she would
not have been surprised to have done so." Accordingly, when her travelling companion left the
next morning, she taxed Mrs. James with misconduct. After telling her to "mind her own business,"
Mrs. James had declared that she and Captain Lennox were on the point of being married, and
had then packed up and left the establishment.

"What exactly did she say?" enquired the judge.

"She said, 'what I choose to do is my own affair and nobody else's.'"

On leaving the somewhat arid hospitality of the Covent Garden Hotel, Mrs. James had removed
to a lodging-house just off Pall Mall, where she stopped for a month. Mrs. Martin, the proprietress,
told the court that, during this period, Captain Lennox settled the bill, and "called there
every day, often stopping till all hours of the night."

The testimony of Mrs. Sarah Watson, the sister of Captain James, was that her brother had written
to her in the autumn of 1840, saying that his wife had been thrown from her horse and was coming
to England for medical treatment; and that he had written to his aunt, Mrs. Rae, of Edinburgh,
suggesting that his wife should stop with her. Mrs. Watson, having "been told things," then
called on Mrs. James in Covent Garden. "I spoke to her," she said, "of the shocking rumour
that Captain Lennox had passed a night with her there, and pointed out the unutterable ruin
that would result from a continuance of such deplorable conduct. I begged her to entrust herself
to the care of Mrs. Rae. My entreaties were ineffectual. She positively declared, affirming
with an oath, that she would do nothing of the kind."

Among the passengers on board the East Indiaman by which Mrs. James had voyaged to England
was Mrs. Ingram, the captain's wife. "The conduct of Mrs. James," she said, "was unguarded
in the extreme, and her general behaviour was what is sometimes called flirting." Captain Ingram,
who followed, had a still more disturbing story to recount. "On several occasions," he said,
"I heard Mrs. James address the gentleman who joined us at Madras as 'Dear Lennox,' and she
would even admit him to the privacy of her cabin while the other passengers were attending
divine service on deck. When I spoke to her about it, she answered me in a very cool fashion."

All this was distinctly damaging. The real sensation, however, was provided by Caroline Marden,
a stewardess.

"During the voyage from Madras," she told the astonished judge, "I more than once saw Captain
Lennox lacing up Mrs. James's stays."

"Did you see anything else?" faltered counsel.

"Yes, I also saw her actually putting on her stockings while Captain Lennox was in her cabin!"

There were limits to intimacies between the sexes. This was clearly among them. For a man to
assist in adjusting a woman's stays, and watch her changing her stockings, could, in the opinion
of the learned and experienced Dr. Lushington, only lead to one result. The worst result. Hence,
he had no difficulty in pronouncing the decree for which the husband was applying.

III

All James had got for his activities in bringing his action was a divorce a mensa et thoro,
that is, "from bed and board." But, while it was all he got, this measure of relief was probably
all he wanted, as he was not contemplating a second experiment in matrimony, either with Mrs.
Lomer or anybody else. Where his discarded wife was concerned, she would have to shift for
herself. She no longer had any legal claim upon him; nor could she marry again during his lifetime.
Her position was a somewhat pathetic one. Thus, she was alone and friendless; besmirched in
reputation; abandoned by her husband; and deserted by her lover. But she still had her youth
and her courage.

The London of the 1840's, where Lola found herself cast adrift, was a curious microcosm and
full of contrasts. A mixture of unabashed blackguardism and cloistered prudery; of double-beds
and primness; of humbug and frankness; of liberty and restraint; of lust and license; of brutal
horse-play passing for "wit," and of candour marching with cant. The working classes scarcely
called their souls their own; women and children mercilessly exploited by smug profiteers;
the "Song of the Shirt"; Gradgrind and Boanerges holding high festival; Tom and Jerry (on their
last legs) and Corinthians wrenching off door knockers and upsetting policemen; and Exeter
Hall and the Cider Cellars both in full swing. Altogether, an ill place of sojourn for an unprotected
young woman.

Exactly how this one supported herself during the next few months is not very clear, for, if
she kept a diary, she never published it. According, however, to a Sunday organ, "she entangled
the virtuous Earl of Malmesbury in a delicate kind of newspaper correspondence, an assertion
having been made in public that she visited that pious nobleman at his own house." An odd story
(of American origin, and quite unfounded) has it that, about this period, she established contact
with a certain Jean François Montez, "an individual of immense wealth who lavished a fortune
on her"; and Edward Blanchard, a hack dramatist of Drury Lane, contributes the somewhat unhelpful
remark, "She became a Bohemian." Perhaps she did. But she had to discover a second career that
would bring a little more grist to the mill. Such a course was imperative, since the balance
of the £1000 her step-father had given her would not last indefinitely. Looking round, she
felt that, all things considered, the stage offered the best prospects of earning a livelihood.
Not a very novel decision. Nowadays, as an attractive young woman, with a little capital in
her possession, she would have had more choice. Thus, she might have opened a hat shop, or
run tea-rooms, or bred pet dogs, become a mannequin, or a dance club hostess, or even "gone
on the films." But none of these avenues to feminine employment existed in the eighteen-forties.
Hence, it was the footlights or nothing.

She had the sense to put herself in the hands of an instructress. The one she selected was
Fanny Kelly ("the only woman to whom Charles Lamb had screwed up sufficient courage to propose
marriage"), who conducted a school of acting. Being honest, as well as capable, Miss Kelly
took the measure of the would-be Ophelia very promptly.

"You'll never make an actress," was her decision. "You've no talent for it."

But, if the applicant had no talent, the other saw that she had something else. This was a
pair of shapely legs, which, as a ballet-dancer, could yet twinkle in front of the footlights.

This opinion being shared by its recipient, she lost no time in adopting it. As a preliminary,
she went to Madrid. There, under expert tuition, she learned to rattle the castanets, and practised
the bolero and the cachucha, as well as the classic arabesques and entrechats and the technique
accompanying them. But she did not advance much beyond the simplest steps, for the time at
her disposal was short, and the art of the ballerina is not to be acquired without years of
unceasing study.

According to a French journalist, an "English Milord" made Lola's acquaintance in Madrid. This
was Lord Malmesbury, "who was so dazzled by the purity of her Spanish accent that he adopted
her as a compagnon de voyage, and shared with her the horrors of bad cooking and the joys of
nights in Granada." This fact, however, if it be a fact, is not to be found in the volume of
"memoirs" that he afterwards published.

Still, it seems that Lord Malmesbury did meet Lola. His own account of the incident is that,
on returning to England from abroad, in the spring of the year 1843, he was asked by the Spanish
Consul at Southampton to escort to London a young woman who had just landed there. He found
her, he says, "a remarkably handsome person, who was in deep mourning and who appeared to be
in great distress." While they were alone in the railway carriage, he improved the occasion
and extracted from his travelling companion the story of her life.

"She informed me," he says, "in bad English that she was the widow of Don Diego Leon, who had
lately been shot by the Carlists after he was taken prisoner, and that she was going to London
to sell some Spanish property that she possessed, and give lessons in singing, as she was very
poor."

Notwithstanding his diplomatic training, Lord Malmesbury swallowed this story, as well as much
else with which it was embroidered. One thing led to another; and the acquaintance thus fortuitously
begun in a railway carriage was continued in London. There he got up a concert for her benefit
at his town house, where, in addition to singing Castilian ballads, his protégée sold veils
and fans among the audience; and he also gave her an introduction to a theatrical manager,
with results that neither of them had foreseen.

CHAPTER IV

FLARE OF THE FOOTLIGHTS

I

Times change. When Lola returned to London a passage through the divorce court was not regarded
as a necessary qualification for stage aspirants. Also, being well aware that, to ensure a
good reception, a foreign-sounding name was desirable, this one decided to adopt that of Lola
Montez. This, she felt, would, among other advantages, effectively mask her identity with that
of Mrs. Thomas James, an identity she was anxious to shed.

Her plans were soon made. On the morning after her arrival, she presented her letter of introduction
to the impressario of Her Majesty's Theatre, in the Haymarket. This position was held by an
affable Hebrew, one Benjamin Lumley, an ex-solicitor, who had abandoned his parchments and
bills of costs and acquired a lease of Her Majesty's. The house had long been looked upon as
something of a white elephant in the theatrical jungle; but Lumley, being pushful and knowledgeable,
soon built up a valuable following and set the establishment on its legs.

As luck would have it, Lola's interview with him came at just the right moment, for he was
alternating ballet with opera and was in want of a fresh attraction. Convinced that he recognised
it in his caller (or, perhaps, anxious to please Lord Malmesbury), he offered her an engagement
there and then to dance a pas seul between the acts of Il Barbiere di Seviglia.

"If you make a hit," he said, "you shall have a contract for the rest of the season. It all
depends on yourself."

Lola, wanting nothing better, left the managerial office, treading on air.

As was his custom, Lumley cultivated the critics, and would receive them in his sanctum whenever
he had a novel attraction to submit.

"I have a surprise for you in my next programme," he said, when the champagne and cigars had
been discussed. "This is that I have secured Donna Lola, a Spanish dancer, direct from Seville.
She is, I assure you, deliciously beautiful and remarkably accomplished. I pledge you my word,
gentlemen, she will create a positive furore here."

In 1843 dramatic critics had the privilege of attending rehearsals and penetrating behind the
scenes. One of their number, adopting the pseudonym "Q," has left an account of the manner
in which he first met Lola Montez. He had called on Lumley for a gossip, and was invited by
that authority to descend to the stage and watch his new acquisition practising a dance there.

"At that period," he says, "her figure was even more attractive than her face, lovely as the
latter was. Lithe and graceful as a young fawn, every movement she made was instinct with melody.
Her dark eyes were blazing and flashing with excitement, for she felt that I was willing to
admire her.... As she swept round the stage, her slender waist swayed to the music, and her
graceful head and neck bent with it like a flower that bends with the impulse given to its
stem by the fitful temper of the wind."

Lumley was tactful enough to leave the pressman alone with the star. As the latter promised
to "give her a good puff in his paper," Lola, who never missed an opportunity, made herself
specially agreeable to him. Her bright eyes did their work. "When we separated," says "Q" in
his reminiscences, "I found myself tumbled heels over head into the profound depths of that
which the French call a grande passion."

Lumley's next step was to draw up an announcement of the promised novelty for inclusion in
the programme:

     HER MAJESTY'S THEATRE

     June 3, 1843

     SPECIAL ATTRACTION!

     Mr. Benjamin Lumley begs to announce that, between the acts
     of the Opera, DONNA LOLA MONTEZ, of the Teatro Real,
     Seville, will have the honour to make her first appearance
     in England in the Original Spanish dance El Oleano.

After the cast list had been set out the rest of the reading matter on the programme was given
up to advertisements. Some of them would appear to have been selected rather at haphazard.
At any rate, their special appeal to music lovers was a little difficult to follow. Thus, one
was of "Jackson's patent enema machines, as patronised by the nobility (either sex) when travelling";
another of "Mrs. Rodd's anatomical ladies' stays (which ensure the wearer a figure of astonishing
symmetry";) and another of a "Brilliant burlesque ballad, 'Get along, Rosey,' sung with the
most positive triumph every evening by Madame Vestris."

With much satisfaction, Manager Lumley, taking a preliminary peep at the crowded house, saw
that a particularly "smart" audience was assembled on the night of June 3. The list of "fashionables"
he handed to the reporters resembled an extract from the pages of Messrs. Burke and Debrett.
Thus, the Royal Box was graced by the Queen Dowager, with the King of Hanover and Prince Edward
of Saxe-Weimar for her guests; and, dotted about the pit tier (then the fashionable part of
the house) were the Duke and Duchess of Wellington, the Marquess and Marchioness of Granby,
Lord and Lady Brougham, and the Baroness de Rothschild, with the Belgian Minister, Count Esterhazy,
and Baron Talleyrand. Even the occupants of the pit had to accept an official intimation that
"only black trousers will be allowed." Her Majesty's had a standard, and Lumley insisted on
its observance.

That long familiar feature, "Fops' Alley," having disappeared from the auditorium, the modish
thing for unattached men was to make up a party and hire an omnibus-box; and from that position
to pronounce judgment upon the legs of the dancers pirouetting in wispy gauze on the stage.
Then, when the curtain fell, they would be privileged to go behind the scenes and chat with
the coryphées.

On the evening of Lola's début one of the omnibus-boxes was occupied by Lord Ranelagh, a raffish
mid-Victorian roué, who had brought with him a select party of "Corinthians" in frilled shirts
and flowered waistcoats. It was observed that he paid but languid attention to the opera. As
soon, however, as the promised novelty, El Oleano, was reached, he exhibited a sudden interest
and pushed his chair forward.

"We shall see some fun in a moment," he whispered. "Mind you fellows keep quiet until I give
the word."

II

A little ominous, perhaps, that the Haymarket entrepreneur should bear the same name as the
Calcutta judge who had unsuccessfully sought her hand. But Lola experienced no qualms. As she
stood at the wings, in a black satin bodice and much flounced pink silk skirt, waiting for
her cue, Lumley passed her with a nod of encouragement.

"Capital," he said, rubbing his whiskers. "Most attractive. You'll be a big success, my dear."

As he moved off, a bell tinkled in the prompt corner. In response, the conductor lifted his
baton; the heavy curtains were drawn aside; and, under a cross-fire of opera glasses, Lola
bounded on to the stage and executed her initial piroutte. There was a sudden hush, as, at
the finish of the number, she stepped up to the footlights and awaited the verdict. Had she
made good, or not? In a moment, however, she knew that all was well, for a storm of applause
and clapping of hands filled the air. Lumley, from his place in the wings, beamed approval.
His enterprise was to be rewarded. The débutante was a success. No doubt about it. She should
have a contract from him before any other manager should step in and snap her up.

     We do not believe (scribbled a critic, hurriedly jotting
     down his impressions, to be expanded when he got back to his
     office) that Donna Lola smiled once throughout her
     performance. As she withdrew, numbers of bouquets fell on to
     the stage. But the proud one of Seville did not deign to
     return to pick them up, and one of the gentlemen in livery
     was deputed for that purpose. When, however, her measure was
     encored, she stepped down from her pinnacle and actually
     condescended to accept an additional bouquet that had been
     tossed by a fair one from a box.

     Her Majesty's Theatre (added a colleague) may now be said to
     be in its full zenith of grandeur and perfection of beauty
     and splendour, and variety and fame of the ballet. A new
     Spanish Donna has been introduced. Although the visitation
     was unheralded by the customary flourish of trumpeting on
     dits, it was extremely successful. The young lady came and
     saw and conquered. Many floral offerings were shot at her as
     a compliment, and the useful M. Coulos--ever at hand in such
     an emergency--assisted very industriously in picking them
     up. As for El Oleano, this is a sort of cachucha; and it
     certainly gives Donna Lola Montez an opportunity of
     introducing herself to the public under a very captivating
     aspect.... A lovely picture she is to contemplate. There is
     before you the very perfection of Spanish beauty--the tall
     handsome figure, the full lustrous eye, the joyous animated
     countenance, and the dark raven tresses. You gaze upon the
     Donna with delight and admiration.

It was just after the third item on her programme and while she stood before the curtain, bowing
and smiling her acknowledgments, that there was an unexpected interruption. An ominous hiss
suddenly split the air. The sound came from the occupants of the stage box in which Lord Ranelagh
and his party had ensconced themselves. As at a prearranged signal, the occupants of the opposite
box took it up and repeated it. The audience gasped in astonishment, and looked to Lord Ranelagh
for a solution. He supplied one promptly. "Egad!" he exclaimed in a loud voice, "that's not
Lola Montez at all. It's Betsy James, an Irish girl. Ladies and gentlemen, we're being properly
swindled!"

"Swindled" was an ugly word. The pit and gallery, feeling that they were in some mysterious
fashion being defrauded, followed the cue thus given them, and a volume of hisses and cat-calls
sprang from the throats that, a moment earlier, had bellowed vociferous cheers. The great Michael
Costa, who was conducting, dropped his baton in astonishment, and, refusing to pick it up again,
left his desk. There is a theory that it was this untoward incident that led him to transfer
himself from the Haymarket to Covent Garden. Quite possible. Musicians are temperamental folk.

It was left for Lumley to deal with the situation. He did so by ringing down the curtain, while
Lola, in tears and fury, rushed off to her dressing-room.

III

Perhaps they left early, but none of the critics saw anything of this dénouement. What, however,
they did see they described in rapturous, not to say, florid terms:

     We saw, as in a dream (declared one of them), an Elssler or
     a Taglioni descend from the clouds, under the traits of a
     new dancer, whose fervent admirers lavished on her all the
     enthusiasm and applause with which the rare perfection of
     her predecessors has been rewarded.

     On Saturday last, between the acts of the opera, Donna Lola
     Montez was announced to appear on the programme at Her
     Majesty's. A thousand ardent spectators were in feverish
     anxiety to see her. Donna Lola enchanted everyone. There was
     throughout a graceful flowing of the arms--not an angle
     discernible--an indescribable softness in her attitude and
     suppleness in her limbs which, developed in a thousand
     positions (without infringing on the Opera laws), were the
     most intoxicating and womanly that can be imagined. We never
     remember seeing the habitués--both young and old--taken by
     more agreeable surprise than the bewitching lady excited.
     She was rapturously encored, and the stage strewn with
     bouquets.

Lord Ranelagh and his friends must have grinned when they read this gush.

"I saw Lumley immediately after the fall of the curtain," says a reporter who was admitted
behind the scenes. "He was surrounded by the professors of morality from the omnibus-box, who
said that Donna Lola was positively not to reappear. They pointed out to him that it was absolutely
essential to have none but exemplary characters in the ballet; but they did not tell him where
he would procure females who would have no objection to exhibiting their legs in pink silk
fleshings. As Lumley could not afford to offend his patrons, he was compelled to accept the
fiat of these virtuous scions of a moral and ultra-scrupulous aristocracy. Carlotta Grisi might
have had a score of lovers; but, then, she had never turned up her charming little nose at
my Lord Ranelagh."

It was an age when the theatre had to kow-tow to the patron. Unless My Lord approved, Mr. Crummles
had no choice but to ring down the curtain. As the Ranelagh faction very emphatically disapproved,
Lumley was compelled to give the recruit her marching-orders.

Lola's première had thus become her dernière.

By the way, a Sunday paper, writing some time afterwards, was guilty of a serious slip in its
account of the episode, and mistook Lord Ranelagh for the Duke of Cambridge. "The newcomer,"
says this critic, "was recognised as Mrs. James by a Prince of the Blood and his companions
in the omnibus-box. Her beauty could not save her from insult; and, to avenge themselves on
Mr. Lumley, for some pique, these chivalrous English gentlemen of the upper classes hooted
a woman from the stage."

What was behind Lord Ranelagh's cowardly attack on the débutante? There was a simple explanation,
and not one that redounded to his credit in any way. It was that, during her "Bohemian" period,
he had endeavoured to fill the empty niche left in her affections by the departure of that
light-o'-love, Captain Lennox, and had been repulsed for his pains. A bad loser, my Lord nursed
resentment. He would teach a mere ballet-dancer to snap her fingers at him. His opportunity
came sooner than he imagined. He made the most of it.

Fond as he was of biting, Lord Ranelagh was, some years afterwards, himself bitten. He took
a prominent part in an unsavoury scandal that fluttered mid-Victorian dovecotes, when a Bond
Street "beauty specialist," known as Madame Rachel, was clapped into prison for swindling a
wealthy and amorous widow. This was a Mrs. Borrodaile, whom "Madame" had gulled by declaring
that Lord Ranelagh's one desire was to share his coronet with her. Although the raffish peer
denied all complicity, he did not come out of the business too well.

"The peculiar prominence he has attained," remarked an obituarist, "has not always been of
an enviable description. There are probably few men who have had so many charges of the most
varied and disagreeable nature made against them. The resultant obloquy to which he had thus
been exposed is great, nor has it vanished, as it properly should have done, with the charges
themselves."

This, however, was looking ahead. The comments of 1843 came first. "In the clubs that night,"
we read, "the bucks and bloods laughed heartily when they discussed the mishap of the proud
beauty who had scorned the advances of my Lord." Lola Montez, however, did not regard it as
anything at which to laugh. She may, as she boasted, have had a dash of Spanish blood in her
veins, but she certainly had none of George Washington's, for she immediately sat down and
wrote a circular letter to all the London papers. In this she sought to correct what she described
as a "false impression." Swallowing it as gospel, a number of them printed it in full:

     To the Editor.

     SIR:

     Since I had the honour of dancing at Her Majesty's Theatre,
     on Saturday, the 3rd inst. (when I was received by the
     English public in so kind and flattering a manner) I have
     been cruelly annoyed by reports that I am not really the
     person I pretend to be, but that I have long been known in
     London as a woman of disreputable character. I entreat you,
     Sir, to allow me, through the medium of your respected
     journal, to assure you and the public, in the most positive
     and unqualified manner, that there is not a word of truth in
     such a statement.

     I am a native of Seville; and in the year 1833, when ten
     years old, was sent to a Catholic lady at Bath, where I
     remained seven months, and was then taken back to my parents
     in Spain. From that period, until the 14th of April, when I
     landed in England, I have never set foot in this country,
     and I never saw London before in my life.

     In apologising for the favour I ask you, I feel sure that
     you will kindly consider the anxiety of myself and my
     friends to remove from the public any impression to my
     disadvantage. My lawyer has received instructions to proceed
     against all the parties who have calumniated me.

     Believe me to be your obedient and humble servant,

     LOLA MONTEZ.

     June 13, 1843.

Ballet-dancers cannot, when making their débuts, be expected to remember everything; and this
one had obviously forgotten her sojourn in India, just as she had forgotten her marriage to
Thomas James (and the subsequent Consistory Court action), as well as her amorous dalliance
with Captain Lennox during the previous year.

"In spite of the encouraging reception accorded Donna Lola Montez, she has not danced again,"
remarked a critic in the Examiner. "What is the reason?"

Lumley could have supplied the information. He did so, some years afterwards, in his book,
Reminiscences of the Opera:

     It is not my intention to rake up the world-wide stories of
     this strange and fascinating woman. Perhaps it will be
     sufficient to say frankly that I was, in this instance,
     fairly "taken in." A Noble Lord (afterwards closely
     connected with the Foreign Office) had introduced the lady
     to my notice as the daughter of a celebrated Spanish
     Patriot and martyr, representing her merits as a dancer in
     so strong a light that her "appearance" was granted.

     ... But this spurious Spanish lady had no real knowledge of
     that which she professed. The whole affair was an imposture;
     and on the very night of her first appearance the truth
     exploded. On the discovery of the truth, I declined to allow
     the English adventuress, for such she was, another
     appearance on my boards. In spite of the expostulations of
     the "friends" of the lady--in spite of the deprecatory
     letters in which she earnestly denied her English
     origin--in spite even of the desire expressed in high places
     to witness her strange performance--I remained inflexible.

The "Noble Lord" thus referred to in this pompous disclaimer was Lord Malmesbury.

IV

If she had a quick temper, Lola Montez had a good heart, and was always ready to lend a helping
hand to others. In this connection Edward Fitzball, a hack dramatist with whom things were
not going well, has a story of how she volunteered to assist in a benefit performance that
was being got up to set him on his legs. It was difficult to secure attractions; and the beneficiare,
realising that, as was the custom in such cases, he would have to make good any deficit himself,
was feeling depressed.

"This benefit," he says, "which I fully expected would prove to be a decided loss, annoyed
me sadly. I was sauntering along Regent Street when I met Stretton, the popular singer, whose
own benefit was just coming off. He said that he had secured every attraction worthy of the
public, and that there was no hope for me, 'unless,' he added, 'you could secure Lola Montez.'

"'Pray, who is that?' I said in my ignorance.

"'Lola Montez is a lady who appeared the other night at Her Majesty's Theatre as a dancer,
but, due to some aristocratic disturbance, has left in disgust. The papers were full of it.
I offered her £50 to dance for me, and met with a decided refusal. Hence, I see no hope for you.'"

Fitzball, however, thinking it worth while taking a chance, hurried to Lola's lodgings and
begged her to contribute to the programme he was offering. He had not expected to be successful,
since he knew that she was smarting under a sense of injury. To his surprise and delight, however,
she promised her services, and refused to accept any payment.

Overjoyed at the success of his embassy, Fitzball rushed off to the printers and had the hoardings
plastered with bills, directing special attention to the novelty:

                  THEATRE ROYAL, COVENT GARDEN
                     Monday, July 10, 1843.

                      COLOSSAL ATTRACTION!
               (For the Benefit of Mr. Fitzball)

              EXTRAORDINARY COMBINATION OF TALENT!

     During the evening the celebrated DONNA LOLA MONTEZ (whose
     recent performance created so pronounced a sensation at Her
     Majesty's Theatre) will execute, by special request, her
     remarkable dance, "El Oleano."

     N.B.--This will positively be the Donna's only appearance in
     London, as she departs on Thursday next for St. Petersburg.

"The theatre," says Fitzball, in his account of the evening, "was crammed. Lola Montez arrived
in a splendid carriage, accompanied by her maid. When she was dressed, she enquired if I thought
her costume would be approved. I have seen sylphs and female forms of the most dazzling beauty
in ballets and fairy dramas, but the most dazzling and perfect form I ever did gaze upon was
that of Lola Montez in her white and gold attire studded with diamonds. Her bounding before
the public was the signal for general applause and admiration. On the conclusion of her performance,
there was a rapturous and universal call for her reappearance."

CHAPTER V

A PASSIONATE PILGRIMAGE

I

The "departure for St. Petersburg" was a stretch of Fitzball's imagination. Where Lola did
go when she left England was not to Russia, but to Belgium. The visit was not a success, as
none of the theatres in Brussels at which she applied for an engagement exhibited any interest
in ballet-dancers, whether they came from Seville, or elsewhere. A spell of ill luck followed;
and, if her own account of this period is to be trusted, she was reduced to such a pass that
in the Belgian capital she became familiar with the inside of pawnshops and had to sing in
the streets, to secure a lodging. But this "singing in the streets" business was, if a picturesque
one, not an original touch. It is still in active use, as a stock portion of the autobiographical
equipment of every stage and film heroine who wants "publicity." Further, if Lola Montez ever
did anything of the kind, it was not for long. A "rich man"--she had a knack of establishing
contact with them--promptly came to the rescue; and, assisted by, it is said, the mysterious
Jean Francois Montez, who had followed her from London, she shook the inhospitable dust of
the Brussels boulevards off her feet.

It was in Berlin that, in the autumn of 1843, long delayed Fortune smiled on her. A novelty
being wanted, she secured an engagement to dance at a fête organised by Frederick William IV
in honour of his son-in-law, the Czar Nicholas, and a posse of Grand Dukes then visiting Potsdam.
The autocrat of all the Russias expressed himself as highly pleased with the newcomer's efforts.
The Berliners followed suit. Lola was "made"; and every night for a month on end she was booked
up to dance somewhere.

While in the German capital, she is said to have had an encounter with the arm of the law.
The story is that, mounted on a blood horse, she attended a review held in honour of the King
and the Czar; and her steed, being somewhat mettlesome, carried her at full tilt across the
parade ground and into the midst of the royal party assembled at the saluting-point.

When an indignant policeman, bellowing Verboten! at the top of his voice, rushed up and clung
to the bridle, he received for his pains a vigorous cut from her whip. The next morning a summons
was delivered to the daring Amazon, ordering her to appear before a magistrate and answer a
charge of "insulting the uniform." Thereupon, Lola, feeling that the general atmosphere was
unfavourable, packed her trunks. She managed to get away just in time, as a warrant for her
arrest was actually being made out. But if she did not leave Berlin with all the honours of
war, it is at any rate recorded that "she left this city of pigs with a high head and a snapping
of her fan."

The Odyssey continued. The next place where she halted was Dresden. There the pilgrim swam
into the orbit of Franz Liszt, who happened to be giving a series of recitals. Born in 1811--the
"year of the Comet"--he was at the height of his powers when Lola Montez flashed across his
path. During an early visit to England, as a "boy prodigy," he had gathered considerable laurels.
Windsor Castle had smiled upon him, and he had played to George IV and to Queen Victoria. The
chance encounter with Lola was a fateful one for both of them. But, as it happened, the virtuoso
rather welcomed the prospect of a fresh intrigue just then. Wearied of the romanticism of the
phalanx of feminine admirers, who clustered about him like bees, he found this one, with her
beauty and vivacious charm, to have a special appeal for him. He responded to it avidly. The
two became inseparable.

One evening, while Rienzi was being performed, his latest charmer accompanied Liszt to the
Opera House, and, during an interval, joined him in the dressing-room of Josef Tichatschek,
the tenor. Hearing that he was there, Wagner was coming to speak to him, "when he saw that
his companion was a painted and bejewelled woman with insolent eyes." Thereupon, if his biographer
is to be trusted, "the composer turned and fled." Lola had routed "Rienzi."

Musicians will be musicians; and Liszt was no exception. With his love affairs and his long
catalogue of "conquests" in half the capitals of Europe, he was generally regarded as a Don
Juan of the keyboard. It is said by James Huneker that, on leaving Dresden, Lola joined him
in Constantinople. In her memoirs she says nothing about wandering along the shores of the
Bosphorus in his company. Still, she says a good deal about Sir Stratford Canning, the British
Ambassador, by whom, she declares, she was given a letter to the Chief Eunuch, admitting her
to the Sultan's harem. But this, like many of her other statements, must be taken with a generous
pinch of salt.

During that memorable summer Liszt was specially invited to Bonn, to unveil the Beethoven monument
that had been erected there. The ceremony attracted a distinguished gathering, and was witnessed
by the King and Queen of Russia, together with Queen Victoria and Prince Albert. It was also
witnessed by Lola Montez, who accompanied Liszt. She was promptly recognised by Ignatz Moscheles;
and, when they discovered her presence, the reception committee were so upset that they had
her barred from the hotel in which rooms had been engaged for the guest of honour. But it took
more than this to keep her in the background. While the speeches were in full swing, she forced
her way into the banquet-hall, and won over the prudish burghers by jumping on the table and
dancing to them.

The Prince Consort was shocked at the "liberty." Frederick William, however, being more broad-minded,
cracked a Teutonic jest.

"Lola is a Lorelei!" he declared, with an appreciative grin, when the episode was reported
to him. "What will she be up to next?"

An inevitable result of Liszt's dalliance with his new Calypso in the various capitals that
they visited together during the months that followed was to shatter the relations that had
existed for years between himself and Madame d'Agoult. The virtuoso emerged from the business
badly, for the woman he had discarded in summary fashion for a younger and more attractive
one had sacrificed her name and her reputation for his sake, and had also presented him with
three pledges of mutual affection. Infuriated at his callousness, she afterwards, as "Daniel
Stern," relieved her outraged feelings in a novel ("written to calm her agitated soul"), Nélida,
where Liszt, under a transparent disguise, figured as "Guermann Regnier."

But the pace was too hot to last. Still, it was Liszt, and not Lola, who cooled first. "With
Lola, as with others, known and unknown, it was," observes William Wallace, "Da capo al Segno."
The story of the final rupture between them, as given by Guy de Pourtales, has in it something
of the element of farce:

     Liszt allowed her to make love to him, and amused himself
     with this dangerous sweetheart. But without any conviction,
     without any real curiosity. She annoyed, she irritated him
     during his hours of work. Before long he planned to escape,
     and, having arranged everything with the hotel porter, he
     departed without leaving any address, but not without having
     first locked this most wearisome of inamoratas up in her
     room. For twelve hours Lola raised a fearful uproar,
     breaking whatever she could lay her hands on.

Liszt, however, scenting this possibility, had settled the bill in advance.

But the incident does not redound to his credit, for the spectacle of a distinguished artist
bribing a lackey to smuggle him out of an hotel and imprison in her bedroom the woman with
whom he had been living, is a sorry one.

II

Having had enough of Germany for the time being, Lola decided to see what France had to offer.
"The only place for a woman of spirit," she once said, "is Paris." Accordingly she betook herself
there. As soon as she arrived, she secured lodgings in a modest hotel near the Palais Royal;
and, well aware of her limitations, took some dancing lessons from a ballet-master in the rue
Lepelletier. When she had taken what she considered enough, she called on Léon Pillet, the
director of the Académie.

"You have, of course, already heard of my immense success in London," she announced with an
assured air.

M. Pillet had not heard of it. But this did not matter. As had been the case with Lumley before
him, Lola's ravishing smile inflamed his susceptible heart; and he promptly engaged her to
dance in the ballet that was to follow Halévy's Il Lazzarone, then in active rehearsal.

Lola's début as a première danseuse was made on March 30, 1844. It was not a successful one.
Far from it. The fact was, the Parisians, accustomed to the dreamy and sylph-like pirouettings
of Cerito and Elssler and Taglioni, and their own Adèle Dumilâtre, could not appreciate the
vigorous cachuchas and boleros now offered them. When they voiced their disapproval, Lola lost
the one thing she could never keep--her temper. She made a moue at the audience; and, if de
Mirecourt is to be trusted, pulled off her garters (a second authority says a more intimate
item of attire) and flung them with a gesture of contempt among the jeering crowd in the first
row of stalls.

As may be imagined, the Press was unsympathetic towards this "demonstration."

"We will avoid damaging with our strictures," remarked Le Constitutionnel in its next issue,
"a pretty young woman who, before making her début, has obviously not had time to study our
preferences."

A much more devastating criticism was published in Le Journal des Débats by Jules Janin. He
went out of his way, indeed, to be positively offensive. Nor did Théophile Gautier, who in
his famous waistcoat of crimson velvet was present on this eventful evening, think very much
of the would-be ballerina's efforts to win Paris.

     Beyond, he wrote, a pair of magnificent dark eyes,
     Mademoiselle Lola Montez has nothing suggestively Andalusian
     in her appearance. She talks poor Spanish, scarcely any
     French, and only tolerable English. The question is, to what
     country does she really belong? We can affirm that she has
     small feet and shapely legs. The extent, however, to which
     these gifts serve her is quite another story.

     It must be admitted that the public's curiosity aroused by
     her altercations with the police of the North and her
     whip-cracking exploits among the Prussian gendarmes has not
     been satisfied. We imagine that Mademoiselle Lola would do
     better on horseback than on the stage.

An odd account, headed: "Singular Début of Lola Montez in Paris," was sent to New York by an
American journalist:

     "When, a few days ago, it was announced that two foreign
     dancers, Mlle Cerito and Mlle Lola Montez, had just entered
     the walls of Paris, the triumphs achieved by the Italian
     ballerina could not eclipse the horse-whipping exploits of
     Mlle Lola. 'Let us have Lola Montez!' exclaimed the stalls
     and pit. 'We want to see if her foot is as light as her
     hand!' Never did they witness a more astounding entrée.
     After her first leap, she stopped short on the tips of her
     toes, and, by a movement of prodigious rapidity, detached
     one of her garters from a lissome limb adjacent to her
     quivering thigh (innocent of lingerie) and flung it to the
     occupants of the front row of the orchestra....
     Notwithstanding the effect produced by this piquant
     eccentricity, Mile Lola has not met with the reception she
     anticipated; and it has been deemed proper by the management
     to dispense with her reappearance."

But to give Lola her congé by word of mouth was a task which M. Pillet did not care to undertake.
"So much was the haughty Amazon's riding-whip dreaded that a letter of dismissal was prudently
delivered. As a result, bloodshed was avoided; and Mlle Lola has solaced herself with the reflection
that she has been the victim of the Machiavellian cabal of Russia, still angry at her routing
of Muscovite gendarmes in Warsaw."

With reference to the Warsaw episode, the slipshod de Mirecourt says that she was dancing there
in 1839. At that date, however, she was no nearer Warsaw than Calcutta. None the less, she
did go there, but it was not until she had left Paris after her failure at the Académie Royale.
According to herself, the Czar Nicholas, who remembered her in Berlin, invited her to visit
St. Petersburg, and, having a month to spare, she accepted a preliminary engagement in the
Polish capital.

This began well enough, for, if her terpsichorean abilities still left something to be desired,
the Warsaw critics, ever susceptible to feminine charms, went into positive raptures about
her personal attractions. One of them, indeed, became almost lyrical on the subject:

"Her soft silken hair," was this authority's opinion, "falls in luxuriant wealth down her back,
its glistening hue rivalling that of the raven's wing; on a slender and delicate neck--the
whiteness of which eclipses swansdown--is poised a lovely face.... Where the proportions are
concerned, Lola's little feet are somewhere between those of a Chinese maiden and those of
the daintiest Parisienne imaginable. As for her bewitching calves, they suggest the steps of
a Jacob's ladder transporting one up to heaven; and her ravishing figure resembles the Venus
of Cnidus, that immortal masterpiece sculptured by the chisel of Praxiteles in the 104th Olympiad.
As for her eyes, her very soul is enshrined in their blue depths."

There was a lot more--several columns more--in a similar strain.

As was to be expected, such a tribute attracted the attention of Prince Ivan Paskievich, the
Viceroy of Poland. He had a weakness for pretty women; and, after the long succession of lumpy
and heavy-footed ballerinas occupying the Warsaw stage, this new arrival sounded promising.
When a trusted emissary reported that the critics "had not said half what they might," he resolved
to make her acquaintance. His first step was to send her, through Madam Steinkeller, the wife
of a banker, an invitation to have supper with him at his private house.

Lola, flattered by the invitation, and less clear-headed than usual, was sufficiently trusting
to accept. She soon, however, discovered that his Excellency's intentions were strictly dishonourable,
for he made her, she afterwards said, "a most indelicate proposition." Her response was to
laugh in his face, and to tell him that "she had no wish to become his toy." Thereupon, Paskievich,
furious at such a repulse (and unaccustomed to being thwarted by anyone, must less by a ballet-dancer),
dismissed her with threats of reprisals. The first of these took the form of a visit from Colonel
Abrahamowicz, the official charged with "preserving morality in the Warsaw theatres." He apparently
interpreted his responsible functions in a fashion that left something to be desired, for Lola
complained that "his conduct was so free that I took serious exception to it."

Paskievich then dealt his next card. This was to instruct his understrapper to fill the theatre
with a rabble and have her hissed off the stage. Lola, however, was equal to the occasion.
Advancing to the footlights, before the terror-stricken manager could stop her, she pointed
to Colonel Abrahamowicz, sitting in a box, and exclaimed: "Ladies and gentlemen, there is the
dastard who attempts to revenge himself on a pure woman who has scorned his infamous suggestions!
I ask your protection!"

Accompanied by M. Lesniowski, the editor of the Warsaw Gazette, she returned to her lodgings,
wondering what would happen next. She was soon to discover, for the angry Colonel and a squad
of police arrived with a warrant for her arrest as an "undesirable." When, however, they announced
their purpose, she flourished a pistol in their faces and declared that she would put a bullet
through the first of them who came near her. Realising that she meant what she said, and not
anxious to qualify for cheap martyrdom, Colonel Abrahamowicz was tactician enough to withdraw.
In the meantime, the public, learning what had happened, sided with Lola and raised lusty shouts
of "Down with the Viceroy! Long live the Montez!"

Paskievich, who had crushed with an iron hand the rebellion of 1831, had a short and sharp
way with incipient revolutionaries; and, calling out the troops, cleared the streets at the
point of the bayonet. While they were thus occupied, Lola slipped off to the French consul
and suggested that he should grant her his protection as a national. With characteristic gallantry,
he met her wishes. None the less, she had to leave Warsaw the next morning, under escort to
the frontier.

There were reprisals for a number of those who had taken her part. Thus the manager of the
theatre and the editor of the Warsaw Gazette were dismissed; M. Steinkeller was imprisoned;
and a dozen students were publicly flogged.

"Tranquillity has been restored," was the official view of the situation.

According to Lola herself (not, by the way, a very sound authority) she went straight from
Warsaw and the clutches of the lustful Paskievich to St. Petersburg. Considering, however,
that Poland was at that period under the domination of the Czar, it is highly improbable that,
after her expulsion, she could have set foot in Russia without a passport. Had she been sufficiently
daring to make the experiment, she would assuredly have been clapped into fetters and packed
off to Siberia.

Lola's motto was "courage, and shuffle the cards." Undeterred by her previous failure there,
she went back to Paris, to try her luck a second time.

Luck came to her very soon, for she had scarcely arrived in the capital when she encountered
a young Englishman, Mr. Francis Leigh, an ex-officer of the 10th Hussars. Within a week the
two were on such intimate terms that they set up housekeeping together. But the harmony was
shattered abruptly by Lola, who, in a jealous fit, one day fired a pistol at her "protector."
As this was more than he could be expected to stand, Mr. Leigh, deciding that they could not
continue living under the same roof, severed the relationship.

III

In 1845 the Paris of Louis-Philippe was, when Lola resumed her acquaintance with it, a pleasant
city in which to live. The star of Baron Haussmann had not yet arisen; and the capital's vulgarisation
under the Second Empire had not then begun. John Bull still gave it a wide berth; nor, except
for a few stray specimens, were there any hordes of tourists to gape at the "Froggies." Everything
was cheap; and most things were nice. Paris really was La ville lumière. Dull care had been
given its marching orders. All that was required of a man was that he should be witty, and
of a woman that she should be entertaining. The world of the boulevards--with its cafés and
restaurants and theatres--was the accepted rallying point of the authors and poets, the painters
and musicians, and the lights twinkling in the theatrical and journalistic firmaments, the
men in velveteen jackets and peg-top trousers, the women in flounced skirts and shawls and
elastic-sided boots. The mode of the moment.

Lola settled down among them, and was given a warm welcome. Among others with whom she was
soon on friendly terms was the famous (or, perhaps, it would be better to say, notorious) Alphonsine
Plessis. The Lady of the Camelias had a large heart and a wide circle; and Liszt, who was also
back in Paris, was to be found among the guests attending her "receptions" at her house on
the Boulevard de la Madeleine. Lola, who never cherished rancour, was prepared to let bygones
be bygones, and resumed relations with him. But this time they were short lived, for the maestro
was already dangling after another charmer, and, as was his habit, left for Weimar without
saying farewell. Lola took his defection philosophically. As a matter of fact, she rather welcomed
it, for it solved a situation that was fast threatening to become awkward. This was that she
herself had now formed an intimacy with somebody else.

Her new acquaintance was Charles Dujarier, a young man of five and twenty, and a journalist
of some distinction, being part proprietor and feuilleton editor of La Presse. Lola met him
in the friendly atmosphere of a Bohemian café, where formal introductions were not insisted
upon. As was the custom in such an atmosphere, the friendship ripened rapidly. Within a week
of their first meeting the two set up housekeeping together in the rue Lafitte. Before long
there was talk of marriage. But it did not get beyond talk, for Lola had put her head in the
matrimonial noose once--in her opinion, once too often--and she had no desire to do so a second
time. Apart from this consideration, she was probably well aware that her divorce from the
philandering Thomas James had never been completed.

As Dujarier's acknowledged mistress, Lola was accepted without demur as one of themselves by
the literary and artistic "set" thronging the cafés and salons they frequented. Gautier and
Sue, with Claudin and Méry and Dumas, were those habitués of whom she saw most; and Ferdinand
Bac (but nobody else) says that she was on intimate terms with the austere M. Guizot.

Gustave Claudin declared that he met Lola Montez in Paris in the spring of 1841. That she made
an impression on him is evident from a passage in his Souvenirs:

     Lola Montez was a charmer. There was something--I do not
     quite know what--about her appearance that was provocative
     and voluptuous, and which attracted one. She had a white
     skin, hair suggestive of the tendrils of honeysuckle, and a
     mouth that could be compared with a pomegranate. Added to
     this was a ravishing figure, charming feet, and perfect
     grace. Unfortunately, as a dancer, she had very little
     talent.

     Towards the year 1845 the author of these notes saw much of
     her. She wanted him to write her memoirs, and gave him some
     material for them.... She was born in Seville in 1823, with
     a French officer for a godfather and (as is the custom in
     Spain) the city of Seville for a godmother. The adventures
     of her life were written out by her in an exercise-book. She
     told me that, at a ball in Calcutta, she had once refused to
     waltz with a wealthy gentleman who was so encrusted with
     diamonds that he resembled a snuff-box. When he asked her
     the reason for refusing to dance, she replied: "Sir, I
     cannot dance with you because you have hurt my foot." The
     would-be waltzer was a chiropodist!

Writing, as he did, nearly fifty years after the episode to which he thus refers, Claudin's
memory was a little shaky. Thus Lola Montez was born in Limerick in 1818, not, as he says,
at Seville in 1823; nor could Claudin have met her in Paris in the spring of 1841, as she had
not then left India.

Dujarier, according to Lola, was much impressed by her political acumen, and employed her on
"secret service" for the Government, entrusting her as a preliminary with a "mission to St.
Petersburg." The story is an obvious concoction, if merely because Dujarier, being little beyond
a penny-a-liner hack, had no power to employ anybody on such a task. Still, Lola always stuck
to it. Still, it is just possible that she may have gone to Russia at this period, for Nicholas
was interested in the art of the ballet, and welcomed foreign exponents of Terpsichore from
wherever they came. He was a familiar figure in the green-rooms of his capital. He patronised
Taglioni and Elssler, and was always ready to make up any deficit in the box-office receipts.
It only meant grinding more out of his army of serfs.

If she did go from Paris to Russia, Lola did not waste her time there, for, she says, she "nearly
married Prince Schulkoski," whom she had already met in Berlin. This, she adds, was "one of
the romances of her life." But something went wrong with it, for the princely wooer, "while
furiously telegraphing kisses three times a day," was discovered to be enjoying the companionship
of another charmer. Lola could put up with a great deal. There were, however, limits to her
toleration, and this was one of them. First, Tom James; then, George Lennox; and now Prince
Schulkoski. Masculine promises were no more substantial than pie-crust. Poor Lola was having
a sad awakening. It is not remarkable that she formed the conclusion that men were "deceivers
ever." After such an experience, nothing else was possible.

Among other items in her repertoire of alleged happenings in Russia at this period was one
that certainly takes a good deal of swallowing. This was that, while having a "private audience"
with the Czar himself and Count Benkendorf (the Chief of the Secret Police), an important visitor
was announced. Thereupon, and to avoid her presence being known to the newcomer, she was locked
up in a cupboard and left there for several hours. When the Czar came back, he was "full of
apologies and insisted that she should accept from him a gift of a thousand roubles."

Other details follow:

     "A great magnate conquers her at St. Petersburg; Grand Dukes
     perform their tricks; and Circassian Princes die for her.
     But soon she has enough of caviare and vodka. What, she
     wonders, is the good of becoming fuddled with drunkards and
     wasting valuable time on half-civilized Asiatics?"

No good at all, was Lola's decision. Accordingly, she bade farewell to Russian hospitality,
and, relinquishing all prospects of wearing the Muscovite diadem, returned to Paris and Dujarier.
Her lover's influence secured her an engagement in La Biche au Bois at the Porte St. Martin
Theatre; but, as had happened at the Académie Royale, she was a "flop." The critics said so
with no uncertain voice; and the manager announced that he agreed with them. Clearly, then,
the ballet was not her métier.

"Well, dancing isn't everything," said Lola, who always took a reverse in philosophical fashion.

CHAPTER VI

AN "AFFAIR OF HONOUR"

I

The evening of March 7, 1845, was one pregnant with fate where Dujarier was concerned. He had
received, and accepted, an invitation to a supper-party at the Frères-Provençaux restaurant,
given by Mlle Anais Liévenne, a young actress from the Vaudeville company. Among the other
convives gathered round the festive board were a quartet of attractive damsels, Atala Beauchene,
Victorine Capon, Cecile John, and Alice Ozy, with, to keep them company, a trio of typical
flâneurs in Rosemond de Beauvallon (a swarthy Creole from Guadaloupe, with ambitions to be
considered a novelist), Roger de Beauvoir (a friend of Alphonse Karr, and whose other claim
to distinction was that he had once challenged Balzac), and Saint-Agnan (an individual dubbed
by journalists a "man-about-town"). Altogether, a gathering thoroughly representative of the
theatre, the press, the world, and the half-world.

Lola was invited to join the party; but, at Dujarier's special request, she excused herself.
If, however, she had gone with him, the tragedy for which the evening was to be responsible
might have been averted. Still, nobody can look ahead.

For some time, all went merrily as the proverbial marriage bell. The ladies were not too strait-laced;
dull care was banished. Food and drink without stint; music and lights and laughter; bright
eyes and pretty faces. Champagne corks popped; toasts were offered; jests were cracked; and
tongues wagged.

But it did not last. The clouds were gathering; and presently the harmony was interrupted.
Dujarier was to blame. Unable to carry his liquor well, or else, under the spell of her bright
eyes, he went so far as to remark to his hostess: "My dear Anais, figure to yourself, in six
months from now you and I will be sleeping together." The damsel's acknowledged cavalier, de
Beauvallon, a stickler for propriety, took this amiss and declared the assertion to be unwarranted.
Words followed. Warm words. Mlle Liévenne, however, being good-tempered, merely laughed, and
peace was restored.

But the patched-up truce was only a temporary one. Feeling still ran high. A few minutes later,
de Beauvallon picked another quarrel with Dujarier, this time complaining that he had neglected
to publish a feuilleton of his, Mémoires de M. Montholon, that had been accepted by him. As
was to be expected, the result of pestering the sub-editor at such a moment was to receive
the sharp response that he "must wait his turn, and that, in the meantime, there were more
important authors than himself to be considered."

With the idea of calming frayed nerves, somebody suggested that they should all adjourn for
a flutter at lansquenet, then ousting écarté. The proposal was accepted; and, the revellers
having settled down, Saint-Agnan, having the best-lined wallet, took the bank.

Fortune did not smile on Dujarier. The luck seemed against him; and, when the party broke up
in the small hours, he was a couple of thousand francs to the bad. Worse than this, he was
unable to settle his losses until he had borrowed the necessary billets from the head waiter.
As a result, his temper was soured, his nerves on edge. Accordingly, when de Beauvallon was
tactless enough to upset him again, he "answered somewhat abruptly."

This, however, was not all. The "wine being in, the wit was out." A woman's name cropped up,
that of a certain Madame Albert, a young actress in whose affections Dujarier had, before Lola
Montez appeared on the scene, been ousted by de Beauvallon. The recollection rankled, and he
made some sneering reference to the subject. With an obvious effort, the other kept his temper
and curtly remarking, "You will hear from me to-morrow, Monsieur," left the restaurant.

II

"It might have been thought," is the comment of Larousse, "that, with the fever of the wine
abated, these happenings and the recollection of the indecorous words accompanying them would,
by the next morning, have been forgotten."

But they were not forgotten. They were remembered. On the following afternoon, while Dujarier
was in his office, lamenting the fact that he had made such a fool of himself, and wondering
how he was to explain matters to Lola, two visitors were announced. One of them was the Comte
de Flers and the other was the Vicomte d'Ecquevillez. With ceremonious bows, they stated the
purport of their call. This was that they represented de Beauvallon, who "demanded satisfaction
for the insults he had received from M. Dujarier."

The quarrel, however, was really one between two rival papers, La Presse and Le Globe, which
had long been at daggers drawn. Granier de Cassagnac, the editor of Le Globe, was the brother-in-law
of de Beauvallon, and Emile de Girardin, the proprietor of La Presse, had systematically held
him up to ridicule in his columns. Hence, when the news of the restaurant fracas leaked out
among the café gossipers, the result was that everybody said: "il n'y eut qu'une voix pour
dire 'c'est le Globe qui veut se battre avec la Presse.'"

Dujarier, who had no stomach for fighting--except with his pen--would have backed out if he
could. But he could not. Things had already gone too far. Accordingly, he referred the visitors
to his friends, Arthur Bertrand (a god-son of the Emperor) and Charles de Boignes, and then
hurried off to consult them himself.

"Pistols for two and coffee for one," was their decision when they heard what he had to tell
them. There was, they were emphatic, no other way by which he could satisfy his "honour." The
code demanded it.

Clutching at a straw, Dujarier next sought counsel of Alexandre Dumas.

"I don't know why I am fighting," he said.

If it came to that, Dumas shared his ignorance. Still, he insisted that a "meeting" was inevitable.

This was the case. For a Frenchman to refuse to "go out"--no matter what his reason--would
be to incur social ignominy. He would be looked upon as a pariah; not a hand would be offered
him; and he would have bundles of white feathers showered upon him by his former acquaintances.

It was all very ridiculous. Still, it must be remembered that "the period was one when journalists
aped fine gentlemen, and killed themselves for nothing." Ferdinand Bac declares that this practice
was "largely the fault of Dumas, who, in his romances, would describe lovely women throwing
themselves between the combatants to effect their reconciliation."

Since a meeting could be a serious affair, the seconds were naturally anxious to protect themselves.
Accordingly, the four of them, putting their heads together, drew up a document which, in the
event of untoward consequences occurring, would, they felt, absolve them of responsibility:

"We, the undersigned, state that, as the result of a disagreement, M. de Beauvallon has provoked
M. Dujarier in a fashion that makes it impossible for him to refuse an encounter. We ourselves
have done all we can to reconcile these gentlemen; and it is only at M. de Beauvallon's urgent
demand that we are proceeding in the matter."

As the challenged party, Dujarier had the choice of weapons. The privilege, however, was not
worth much to him. He had never handled cold steel, while his adversary was an expert fencer,
and he was also such a poor marksman that he could not have made sure of hitting a haystack
at twenty yards. Still, he reflected that, although de Beauvallon was unlikely to miss him
with a rapier, he might possibly do so with a bullet. Accordingly, he elected for pistols.

When Dujarier came back to her that evening, Lola, with womanly intuition, saw that some trouble
had befallen him. Under pressure, he admitted that he was about to fight a duel for which he
had no stomach. At the same time, however, he led her to believe that his adversary was de
Beauvoir, and not de Beauvallon.

Having thus calmed her fears, for she knew that de Beauvoir was no more a fire-eater than was
he himself, he went off to have another consultation with his seconds.

"I shall not be back until late," he said, "as I am supping with Dumas. You must not stop up
for me."

Instead, however, of returning that night, Dujarier, feeling that he could not face Lola and
tell her the truth, stopped with one of his seconds. There he wrote and sealed a couple of
letters, charging de Boignes to "deliver them if required by circumstances." The first was
to his mother:

     If this letter reaches you, it will be because I shall be
     dead or else dangerously wounded. To-morrow morning I am
     going out to fight with pistols. My position requires it;
     and, as a man of honour, I accept the challenge. If you, my
     good mother, should have cause to weep, it is better that
     you should shed tears for a son worthy of yourself than to
     shed them for a coward. I go to the combat in the spirit of
     a man who is calm and sure of himself. Justice is on my
     side.

A more difficult, although less flamboyant, letter to write was the second one, for its recipient
would be the woman who had given him her heart: and was even then anxiously awaiting his return:

     MY EVER DEAREST LOLA:

     I want to explain why it was I slept by myself and did not
     come to you this morning. It is because I have to fight a
     duel. All my calmness is required, and seeing you would have
     upset me. By two o'clock this afternoon everything will be
     over.

     A thousand fond farewells to the dear little girl I love so
     much, and the thoughts of whom will be with me for ever.

Having written his letters, he proceeded to draw up his will. This document left, among specific
bequests to his mother and sister, certain shares that he held in the Palais Royal to Lola Montez.

III

The date of the meeting was March 11, and the rendezvous was a retired spot in the Bois de
Boulogne. A bitterly cold morning, with snow on the ground and heavy clouds in a leaden sky.
As the clock struck the appointed hour, Dujarier, accompanied by his seconds, and M. de Guise,
a medical man, drove up in a cab. They were the first to arrive.

After waiting for more than an hour, Dujarier was in such a nervous condition that his seconds
declared he would be justified in leaving the field, since his adversary had not kept the appointment.
Instead, however, of jumping at the chance, he took a swig at a flask of cognac. The potent
spirit gave him some measure of Dutch courage, and his teeth stopped chattering.

"I will fight," he announced grandiloquently. "I am a Frenchman, and my honour is very dear to me."

It was to be put to the test, for a few minutes later de Beauvallon and his seconds arrived,
with a tardy apology.

On behalf of their principal, Dujarier's seconds then made a last appeal for an amicable settlement.
It was coldly received; and they were told that "the insult offered was too serious to be wiped
out by words." There being nothing else for it, the preliminaries were discussed, the conditions
of the combat being that the adversaries should stand thirty paces apart, advance six paces,
and then fire.

The pistols were furnished by d'Ecquevillez, and it had been expressly stipulated that his
principal should not have handled them until that moment. When, however, Bertrand examined
the pair, he remarked that, since the barrels were blackened and still warm to the touch, it
was obvious that somebody had already practised with them. As, however, d'Ecquevillez swore
that they had not been tried by de Beauvallon, the protest was withdrawn.

The distance being measured and the adversaries placed in position, the seconds stepped aside.
Then, at a signal, the word was given. The first to fire was Dujarier. He was, however, so
agitated that he sent a bullet wide of the mark. De Beauvallon, on the other hand, was perfectly
cool and collected. He lifted his weapon and aimed with such deliberate care that de Boignes,
unable to restrain himself, called out excitedly: "Mais, tirez donc, Monsieur!" With a nod,
de Beauvallon pressed the trigger. There was an answering flash and a report; and, as the smoke
drifted away, Dujarier reeled and fell, blood gushing from his mouth and nostrils.

When Dr. de Guise examined him, he looked grave. He saw at once that the injury was serious.
As a matter of fact, Dujarier was dead before they returned to Paris.

As the cab reached the house in the rue Lafitte, Lola, waiting there in an agony of suspense,
heard the rumble of wheels. Rushing downstairs, she stepped back with a cry of terror, for
three men were carrying a heavy burden into the hall. Instinctively, she realised that the
worst had happened, that her suspense was at an end.

"Mademoiselle, we have ill tidings for you," said de Boignes.

"I know it," said Lola. "Dujarier is killed. I felt sure this would happen. You should not
have let him fight."

The funeral of Dujarier, which took place a couple of days later in the cemetery at Montmartre,
was attended by characteristic pomp. The velvet pall above his coffin was held by Balzac, Dumas,
and Joseph Méry, and a flowery "oration" delivered at the graveside by Emile de Girardin:

     "Whether it endure but a single day, or be deep and
     prolonged, Man's sorrow is always barren and profitless. It
     cannot restore to a disconsolate mother, bemoaning her
     untimely loss, the son for whom she weeps, or give him back
     to his friends.... Let the words written by Dujarier: 'I am
     about to fight a duel for the most absurd and futile of
     causes,' never be effaced from our memory. Farewell,
     Dujarier! Rest in peace! Let us carry away from the
     graveside the hope that the recollection of so lamentable an
     end will last long enough to shield others from a similar
     one. Let all mothers--still astounded and trembling--derive
     some measure of confidence from this hope, and pray to God
     for poor Dujarier with all the fervour of their souls!"

As may be imagined, talk followed. A vast amount of talk, in the newspapers and elsewhere.
"The topic was discussed," one reads, "at the royal table itself by the family of Louis-Philippe;
and Queen Amelie and Aunt Adelaide stigmatised the conduct of this wicked hussy, Lola Montez,
in severe terms."

IV

After such an experience, Lola felt that she had had enough of France for a time. Accordingly,
she went back to Germany. There she resumed relations with Liszt, who took her to a second
Beethoven Festival at Bonn. While allowance could be made for the artistic temperament, this
was considered to be straining it, and caustic remarks on the subject appeared in the press.

During the absence of Lola from Paris, the relatives of Dujarier had not been idle. Unpleasant
whispers were heard that the dead man had not fallen in a fair fight; and that the fatal bullet
had come from a weapon with which his adversary had already practised. As this was contrary
to the conditions of the encounter, the arm of the law reached out, and de Beauvallon and his
seconds were called upon for an explanation. The one they furnished to them was deemed adequate
by the authorities. Still, if "honour was satisfied," the friends of de Beauvallon's victim
were not. Accordingly, they set to work, and, pulling fresh strings, managed to get the official
decision upset.

An article on the subject that appeared in Le Droit took a severe tone:

"The grounds alleged to be responsible for this deplorable business," declared an editorial,
"were utterly frivolous. As a result, the public prosecutor has instructed an examining-magistrate
to enquire into all the circumstances, and an autopsy will be held. It is possible that other
measures will be adopted."

Other measures were adopted.

"All duels," was the austere comment of the examining-magistrate who conducted the enquiry,
"are marked by folly, and some by deliberate baseness." Where this one was concerned, he hinted
at something sinister, and asked pointed questions about the pistols that d'Ecquevillez had
been obliging enough to furnish. The answer was that they belonged to M. de Cassignac, who,
for his part, declared that, until the actual day of the meeting, they had been in the custody
of the gunsmith from whom he had bought them. The gunsmith, however, M. Devismes, said that
this was not the case; and another witness declared that he had seen de Beauvallon having a
little surreptitious practice with them in the garden.

The next thing that happened was that, before the magisterial enquiry was finished, de Beauvallon
and d'Ecquevillez made a hurried departure from Paris. During their absence, it was decided
to abandon further proceedings for want of evidence. Thinking himself safe, de Beauvallon then
returned. But he was not safe. The Supreme Court cancelled the decision of the inferior one,
and announced that he was to stand his trial for murder.

As public feeling ran high, and it was felt that an impartial jury could not have been secured
in Paris, the trial was held at Rouen. The date was March 26, 1846. Attracted by the special
circumstances of the case, the court was crowded.

"Nearly all those who were present," says Claudin, "belonged to the world of the boulevards."
Albert Vandam was among the spectators; and with him for a companion was a much more distinguished
person, Gustave Flaubert.

V

All being in readiness, and the stage set for the drama that was about to be unfolded, the
judges, in the traditional red robes, took their seats, with M. Letendre de Tourville as president
of the Court. M. Salveton, the public prosecutor, and M. Rieff, the advocate-general, represented
the Government; and Mâitre Berryer and M. Léon Duval appeared respectively on behalf of the
accused and the dead man's mother and sister.

As it had been suggested that de Beauvallon had purposely arrived late on the ground, in order
to have some preliminary practice, he was told to give an account of his movements of the morning
of the duel.

"I got up at seven o'clock," he said, "and went downstairs with the pistols which had been
waiting for me at the concierge's when I returned home on the previous evening."

"The concierge remembers nothing of that," interrupted M. Duval. "This is a fresh fact. We
must certainly consider it. What happened next?"

"I went off in a cab to M. d'Ecquevillez, and handed the pistols to him. At half-past ten I
returned home, to wait for my seconds. We arrived on the ground at half-past eleven. M. de
Boignes received us coldly, with his hands in his pockets, and said: 'You do well to keep us
waiting like this for you. Name of God! this isn't a summer morning. We think there is not
sufficient motive to fight a duel.' I answered frigidly, but politely, that I did not agree
with him, and that I was in the hands of my seconds."

"But one of them, M. de Flers," remarked the President, "thought the quarrel trifling and said
so. Another thing. Why did M. d'Ecquevillez tell us that the pistols belonged to him? Remember,
he has given us details as to where he got them."

"I ignore details," was the lofty response.

"If you do, we don't," returned the judge.

A vigorous denial was made by de Beauvallon to the suggestion that he was familiar with the
pistols used in the duel. To convince the jury that he was not to be believed, the opposing
counsel then told them that he had once pawned a watch belonging to somebody else. When the
judge expressed himself shocked at such depravity, de Beauvallon, says a report, "hung his
head and wept."

Nor did d'Ecquevillez, the other defendant, cut a very happy figure. His real name was said
to be Vincent, and aspersions were cast on his right to dub himself a "Count." He swore he
had never admitted that the pistols belonged to him, and that de Beauvallon had borrowed them
from the gunsmith, Desvismes. The latter, however, calling on heaven for support, declared
the statement to be a "wicked invention."

Believing in the efficacy of numbers in getting up their case, forty-six witnesses were assembled
by the prosecution. Mlle Lièvenne, the first of them to be examined, brought with her an atmosphere
of the theatre, "adopting a flashy costume, in deplorably bad taste." "This," says a chronicler,
"took the form of a blue velvet dress, a scarlet shawl, and a pearl-grey mantle." Altogether,
a striking colour-scheme. But it did not help her. To the indignation of the examining-counsel,
she affected to remember nothing, declaring that she had been "too busy at the supper-table,
looking after the company."

The other young women, described as "more or less actresses," who had also been present, appeared
to be suffering from a similar loss of memory. Their minds, they protested, were absolutely
blank as to what had happened at the restaurant and very little could be extracted from them.
When they had given their evidence, they looked for seats in the body of the court. The Rouen
ladies, however, having somewhat rigid standards, would not permit them to sit between the
wind and their propriety.

"Things are coming to a pretty pass," they declared, "when play-actresses imagine they can
sit beside respectable women like ourselves."

Thereupon, the discomfited damsels withdrew to the hard benches of the public gallery.

Dumas, subpoenaed as a witness, drove all the way from Paris in a four-horsed carriage, with
Méry as a travelling companion. When he took his place on the stand, M. de Tourville, affecting
judicial ignorance, enquired his profession.

"If," returned the other, striking an attitude, "I did not here happen to find myself in the
country of the illustrious Corneille, I should call myself a dramatist."

"Just so," was the caustic response, "but there are degrees among dramatists."

Taking this for encouragement, Dumas launched out into a disquisition on the history of the
duello through the ages that was nearly as long as one of his own serials. In the middle of
it, a member of the jury, anxious to be in the limelight, asked him a question.

"How does it happen," he enquired, "that Dujarier, who considered that a man of fashion must
fight at least one duel, had never prepared himself by learning to shoot and fence?"

"I cannot tell you," was the reply. "My son, however, told me that he once accompanied him
to a shooting-gallery. Out of twenty shots, he only hit the target twice."

Dumas made an exit as dramatic as his entry.

"I beg," he said, "that the honourable Court will permit me to return to Paris, where I have
a new tragedy in five acts being performed this evening."

Lola Montez, garbed in heavy mourning, was the next summoned to give evidence.

"When," says one who was there, "she lifted her veil and removed her glove, to take the prescribed
oath, a murmur of admiration ran through the gathering." To this an impressed reporter adds:
"Her lovely eyes appeared to the judges of a deeper black than her lace ruffles."

The presiding judge had no qualms about enquiring her age; and she had none about lopping five
years off it and declaring that she was just twenty-one. Nor did she advance any objection
to being described, with Gallic candour, as the "mistress of Dujarier."

During her evidence, Lola Montez, probably coached by Dumas, did just what was expected of
her. Thus, she shed abundant tears, struck pathetic attitudes, and several times looked on
the point of collapsing. But what she had to say amounted to very little. In fact, it was nothing
more than an assertion that ill-feeling existed between Dujarier and de Cassagnac, the brother-in-law
of de Beauvallon, and that the quarrel was connected with an alleged debt.

Dujarier, she said, had forbidden her to make de Beauvallon's acquaintance, or to attend the
supper at the restaurant. He had returned from it in an excited condition at 6 o'clock the
next morning and told her that he would have to accept a challenge.

"I was troubled about it," she said, "all day long. But for M. Bertrand's assurance that the
encounter was to be with M. de Beauvoir, I would have gone to the police. You see, de Beauvoir
was a high-minded gentleman, and would not have condescended to profit from the poor Dujarier's
lack of skill."

"Did you not," enquired counsel, "say 'I am a woman of courage, and, if the meeting is in order,
I will not stop it'?"

"Yes, but that was because I understood it was to be with de Beauvoir, and he would not willingly
have harmed Dujarier. When I heard it was to be with de Beauvallon I exclaimed, 'My God! Dujarier
is as good as dead!'"

"I myself," she added, "could handle a pistol more accurately than the poor Dujarier; and,
if he had wanted satisfaction, I should have been quite willing to have gone out with M. de
Beauvallon myself."

A murmur of applause met this assurance. Lola's attitude appealed to the spectators. She was
clearly a woman of spirit.

During the proceedings that followed some sharp things were said about M. Granier de Cassagnac,
the accused's brother-in-law. Some of them were so bitter that at last he protested.

"Monsieur le President," he exclaimed hotly. "I cannot bear these abominable attacks on myself
any longer."

"If you can't bear them, you can always leave the court," was the response.

"This gentleman's indignation does not disturb me in the least," said the public prosecutor.
"I have already had experience of it, and I consider it to be artificial."

VI

After all the witnesses had been examined and cross-examined, and bullied and threatened in
the approved fashion, Mâitre Duval addressed the jury on behalf of the dead man's relatives.
In the course of this he delivered a powerful speech, full of passion and invective, drawing
a parallel between this affaire d'honneur and the historic one between Alceste and Oronte in
Molière's drama. According to him, Dujarier was a shining exemplar, while de Beauvallon was
an unmitigated scoundrel, with a "past" of the worst description imaginable. Having once, years
earlier, pledged a watch that did not belong to him, he had "no right to challenge anybody,
much less a distinguished man of letters, such as the noble Dujarier." The various causes of
the quarrel were discussed next. Counsel thought very little of them.

De Beauvallon had complained that Dujarier had "cut" him. "Is it an offence," enquired M. Duval,
"for one man to avoid another? Upon my word, M. de Beauvallon will have to kill a number of
people if he wants to kill all those who decline the honour of his companionship." As for the
gambling quarrel, this was not serious. What, however, was serious was that, on the morning
of the encounter, de Beauvallon had gone to a shooting gallery and had some private practice
with the very pistols that were afterwards used. This gave him an unfair advantage. "If," was
the advocate's final effort to win a verdict, "M. de Beauvallon is acquitted, the result will
be not only a victory for an improperly conducted duel, but the very custom of the duel itself
will be dishonoured by such a decision."

Léon Duval having sat down, the President turned to the defendant's counsel.

"The word is with you, M. Berryer," he said.

Mâitre Berryer, a master of forensic oratory, began his address by contending that duelling
was not prohibited by the law of France. In support he quoted Guizot's dictum: "Where the barbarian
murders, the Frenchman seeks honourable combat; legislation on the subject is profitless; and
this must be the case, since the duel is the complement of modern civilization."

The judges were unprepared to accept this view off-hand; and, after consulting with the assessors,
the President insisted that, whatever M. Berryer might say, duelling was illegal in France.
Although he did not tell him so, it was also quite as illegal in England, where Lord Cardigan
had, a little earlier, only just wriggled out of a conviction for taking part in one by a combination
of false swearing and the subservience of his brother peers.

Not in the least upset, M. Berryer advanced another point. As might have been expected of so
accomplished an advocate, he had little difficulty in demolishing the elaborate, but specious
and unsupported, hypothesis built up by the other side. Hard facts did more with the stolid
and unimaginative Rouen jury than did picturesque embroideries.

"Is the accusation true?" demanded the President.

"On my honour and on my conscience, before God and before man," announced the foreman, "the
declaration of the jury is that it is not true."

As a result of this finding, de Beauvallon was acquitted of the charge of murder. But he did
not escape without penalty, for he was ordered to pay 20,000 francs "compensation" to the mother
and Dujarier's relatives.

"He was the only son of his mother, and she was a widow." Convinced that there had been a miscarriage
of justice and a vast amount of false swearing, the dead man's friends set to work to collect
other evidence. By a stroke of luck, they got into touch with a gardener, who said that he
had seen de Beauvallon, in company with d'Ecquevillez, having some surreptitious pistol practice
on the morning of the duel. Thereupon, the pair of them were rearrested and tried for perjury.
Being convicted, d'Ecquevillez was sentenced to ten years' imprisonment and de Beauvallon to
eight years. But neither couple stopped in durance very long. The revolution of 1848 opened
the doors of the Conciergerie and they made good their escape, the one of them to Spain, and
the other to his Creole relatives in Guadeloupe.

CHAPTER VII

"HOOKING A PRINCE"

I

Immediately after the Rouen trial, Lola left France, returning once more to Germany. Perhaps
the Irish strain in her blood made her a little superstitious. At any rate, just before starting,
she consulted a clairvoyante. She felt that she had her money's worth, for the Sibyl declared
that she would "exercise much influence on a monarch and the destiny of a kingdom." A long
shot, and, as it happened, quite a sound one.

Her intention being, as she had candidly informed Dumas, to "hook a prince," she studied the
Almanach de Gotha, and familiarised herself with the positions and revenues of the various
"notables" accorded niches therein.

Germany was obviously the best field to exploit, for that country just then was full of princes.
As a matter of fact there were no less than thirty-six of them waiting to be "hooked." The
first place to which she went on this errand was Baden, where, according to Ferdinand Bac,
she "bewitched the future Emperor William I. The Prince, however, being warned of her syren
spell, presently smiled and passed on."

Better luck befell the wanderer at her next attempt to establish intimate contact with a member
of the hoch geboren, Henry LXXII. His principality, Reuss-Lobenstein-Ebersdorf (afterwards
amalgamated with Thuringia), had the longest name, but the smallest area, of any in the kingdom,
for it was only about the size of a pocket-handkerchief. But to Lola this was of no great consequence.
What, however, was of consequence was that he was a millionaire (in thalers) and possessed
an inflammable heart.

A great stickler for etiquette, he once published the following notice in his Court Gazette:

"For twenty years it has been my express injunction that every official shall always be alluded
to by his correct title. This injunction, however, has not always been obeyed. In future, therefore,
I shall impose a fine of one thaler on any member of my staff who neglects to refer to another
by his proper title or description."

But that the Prince could unbend on occasion is revealed by another notification to his subjects:

"His Most Serene Highness and All-Highest Self has graciously condescended to approve the conduct
of those six members of the Reuss militia who recently assisted to put out a fire. With his
own All-Highest hand he is (on production of a satisfactory birth certificate) even prepared
to shake that of the oldest among them."

Risking a prosecution for lèse-majesté, a local laureate described the incident in stirring
verse. An extract from this effort, translated by Professor J. G. Legge, in his Rhyme and Revolution
in Germany, is as follows:

    HONOUR TO WHOM HONOUR IS DUE

    Quite recently in Reuss
      Militia at a fire
    (I'm sure it will rejoice you)
      Great credit did acquire.

    When this, through a memorial,
      Their gracious Prince by Right
    Had learned; those territorials
      He to him did invite.

    And when the good men shyly
      Stood up before him, each
    His Gracious Highness highly
      Praised in a Gracious speech.

    A solemn affidavit
      (With parents' names and date)
    Each then produced and gave it
      --His birth certificate.

    His Highness then demanded
      The eldest of the band,
    And clasped that horny-handed
      With his All-Highest hand.

    Now, this great deed recorded,
      Who would not dwell for choice
    Where heroes are rewarded
      As in the land of Reuss?

Where Lola was concerned, she very soon put a match to the inflammable, if arrogant, heart
of Prince Henry, and, as a result, was "commanded" to accompany him to his miniature court
at Ebersdorf. She did not, however, stop there very long, for, by her imperious attitude and
contempt of etiquette, she disturbed the petty officials and bourgeois citizens surrounding
it to such a degree that they made formal complaints to his High-and-Mightiness. At first he
would not hear a word on the subject. Such was his favourite's position that criticism of her
actions was perilously near lèse-majesté and incurred reprisals. As soon, however, as the amorous
princeling discovered that his bank balance was being depleted considerably beyond the amount
for which he had budgeted, he suffered a sudden spasm of virtue and issued marching-orders
to the "Fair Impure," as his shocked and strait-laced Ebersdorfians dubbed the intruder among
them. There was also some suggestion, advanced by a gardener, that she had a habit of taking
a short cut across the princely flower-beds when she was in a hurry. This was the last straw.

"Leave my kingdom at once," exclaimed the furious Henry. "You are nothing but a feminine devil!"

Not in the least discomfited by this change of opinion, Lola riposted by presenting a lengthy
and detailed account for "services rendered"; and, when it had been met (and not before), shook
the dust of Reuss-Lobenstein-Ebersdorf from her pretty feet.

"You can keep your Thuringia," was her parting-shot. "I wouldn't have it as a gift."

The next places at which she halted were Homburg and Carlsbad, two resorts then beginning to
become popular and attracting a wealthy crowd seeking a promised "cure" for their various ills.
But, finding the barons apt to be close-fisted, and the smart young lieutenants without one
pfennig in their pockets to rub against another, Lola was soon continuing her travels.

In September, 1846, she found herself in Wurtemburg, where, much to her annoyance, she discovered
that a certain Amalia Stubenrauch, a prepossessing damsel, who would now be called a gold-digger,
had conquered the spare affections of King William, on whom Lola herself had designs. But that
large-hearted monarch had, as it happened, few affections to spare for anybody just then, for,
when she encountered him at Stuttgart, he was on the point of being married to Princess Olga
of Russia. A correspondent of the Athenæum, who was there to chronicle the wedding festivities
for his paper, registered disapproval at her presence in the district. "From the capital of
Wurtemburg," he announced sourly, "Lola Montez departed in the schnellpost for Munich, unimpeded
by any luggage." Somebody else, however (perhaps a more careful observer), is emphatic that
she "went off with three carts full of trunks." As she always had a considerable wardrobe,
this is quite possible.

II

When, at the suggestion of Baron Maltitz (a Homburg acquaintance who had suggested that she
should "try her luck in Munich"), Lola set off for Bavaria, that country was ruled by Ludwig
I. A god-child of Marie-Antoinette, and the son of Prince Max Joseph of Zweibrucken and Princess
Augusta of Hesse-Darmstadt, he was born at Salzburg in 1786 and had succeeded his father in
1825. As a young man, he had served with the Bavarian troops under Napoleon, and detesting
the experience, had conceived a hatred of everything military. This hatred was so strongly
developed that he would not permit his sons to wear uniform. Under his regime the military
estimates were cut down to the bone. The army, he said, was a "waste of money," and he grudged
every pfennig it cost the annual budget. He did his best to abolish conscription, but had to
abandon the effort. For all, too, that he was a god-son of Marie-Antoinette, he had no love
for France.

Ludwig's sister, Louisa, exchanging her religion for a consort's crown, was the wife of the
Czar Alexander I; and he himself was married to the Princess Theresa of Saxe-Hildburghausen,
a lady described as "plain, but exemplary." Still, so far as personal appearance goes, Ludwig
himself was no Adonis. Nestitz, indeed, has pictured him as "having a toothless jaw and an
expressionless countenance." But his consort did her duty; and, at approved intervals, presented
him with a quiverful of four sons and three daughters. Of his sons, one of them, Otto, was,
as a lad of sixteen, selected by the Congress of London to be King of Greece, much to the fury
of the Czar Nicholas, who held that this was a cunning, if diplomatic, attempt to set up a
Byzantine empire among the Hellenes. "Were I," he said in a despatch on the subject, "to give
my countenance to such a step, I should nullify myself in the eyes of my Church." Nesselrode,
however, was of another opinion. "It is unbecoming," he was daring enough to inform his master,
"for the Emperor of Russia to question a step upon which the Greeks themselves are not in entire
accord." A remarkable utterance. Politicians had gone to Siberia for less. Palmerston, too,
had his way, and Otto, escorted by a warship, left his fatherland. On arriving in Athens, the
joy-bells rang out and the columns of the Parthenon were flood-lit. But the choice was not
to the popular taste; and it was not long before Otto was extinguished, as well as the lights.
By the irony of fate, he returned to Munich on the very day that Ludwig had erected a Doric
arch to commemorate the activities of the House of Wittelsbach in securing the Liberation of
Greece.

Despite this untoward happening, Ludwig remained an ardent Phil-Hellene; and, as such, conceived
the idea of converting his capital into a mixture of Athens and Florence and a metropolis of
all the arts. Under his fostering care, Munich was brought to bed of a succession of temples
and columns, and sprouted pillars and porticoes in every direction. The slums and alleys and
huddle of houses in the old enceinte were swept away, and replaced by broad boulevards, fringed
with museums and churches and picture galleries. For many of the principal public buildings
he went to good models. Thus, one of them, the Königsbau, was copied from the Pitti Palace;
a second from the Loggia de' Lanzi; and a third from St. Paul's at Rome. He also built a Walhalla,
at Ratisbon, in which to preserve the effigies of his more distinguished countrymen. Yet, although
it ran to size, there was no niche in it for Luther.

In his patronage of the fine arts, Ludwig followed in the footsteps of the Medici. During his
regime, he did much to raise the standard of taste among his subjects. Martin Wagner and von
Hallerstein were commissioned by him to travel in Greece and Italy and secure choice sculpture
and pictures for his galleries and museums. The best of them found a home in the Glyptothek
and the Pinakothek, two enormous buildings in the Doric style, the cost of which he met from
his privy purse. Another of his hobbies was to play the Maecenas; and any budding author or
artist who came to him with a manuscript in his pocket or a canvas under his arm was certain
of a welcome.

We all have our little weaknesses. That of Ludwig of Bavaria was that he was a poet. He was
so sure of this that he not only produced yards of turgid verse, defying every law of construction
and metre, but he even had some of it printed. A volume of selections from his Muse, entitled
Walhalla's Genossen, was published for him by Baron Cotta, and, like the Indian shawls of Queen
Victoria, did regular duty as a wedding-gift. One effort was dedicated "To Myself as King,"
and another "To my Sister, the Empress of Austria"; and a number of choice extracts were translated
and appeared in an English guide-book.

Ignoring the divinity that should have hedged their author, Heine was very caustic about this
royal assault upon Parnassus. Ludwig riposted by banishing him from the capital. Still, if
he disapproved of this one, he added to his library the output of other bards, not necessarily
German. But, while Browning was there, Tennyson had no place on his shelves. One, however,
was found for Martin Tupper.

Ludwig cultivated friendly relations with England, and did all he could (within limits) to
promote an entente. Thus, on the occasion of a chance visit to Munich by Lord Combermere, he
"sent the distinguished traveller a message to the effect that a horse and saddlery, with aide-de-camp
complete, were at his service." His companion, however, a member of the Foreign Office Staff,
who had forgotten to pack his uniform--or in John Bull fashion had declined to do so--did not
fare so well, since his name was struck off the list of "eligibles" to attend the palace functions.
Thereupon, says Lord Combermere, he "wrote an angry letter to the chamberlain, commenting on
the absurdity of the restriction."

But Ludwig's opinion of diplomatists was also somewhat unflattering, for, of a certain embassy
visited by him on his travels, he wrote:

    "A Theatre once--and now an Ambassador's dwelling.
    Still, thou are what thou wast--the abode of deception."

A strange mixture of Henry IV and Haroun-al-Raschid, Ludwig of Bavaria was a man of contradictions.
At one moment he was lavishly generous; at another, incredibly mean. He could be an autocrat
to his finger tips, and insist on the observance of the most minute points of etiquette; and
he could also be as democratic as anybody who ever waved a red flag. Thus, he would often walk
through the streets as a private citizen, and without an escort. Yet, when he did so, he insisted
on being recognised and having compliments paid him. The traffic had to be held up and hats
doffed at his approach.

Nowadays, he would probably have been clapped into a museum as a curiosity.

Such, then, was the monarch whose path was to be crossed, with historic and unexpected consequences
to each of them, by Lola Montez.

III

On arriving in Munich, Lola called on the manager of the Hof Theatre. As this individual already
knew of her Paris fiasco, instead of an engagement from him, she met with a rebuff. Quite undisturbed,
however, by such an experience, she hurried off to the palace, and commanded the astonished
door-keeper to take her straight to the King.

The flunkey referred her to Count Rechberg, the aide-de-camp on duty. With him Lola had more
success. Boldness conquered where bashfulness would have failed. After a single swift glance,
Count Rechberg decided that the applicant was eligible for admission to the "Presence," and
reported the fact to his master.

But Ludwig already knew something of the candidate for terpsichorean honours. As it happened,
that very morning he had received from Herr Frays, the director of the Hof Theatre, a letter,
telling him that, on the advice of his première-danseuse, Fräulein Frenzal, he had refused
to give her an engagement. Count Rechberg's florid description of her charms, however, decided
His Majesty to use his own judgment. But he did not give in easily.

"Is it suggested," he demanded acidly, "that I should receive all these would-be ballerinas
and put them through their paces? They come here by the dozen. Why am I troubled with such
nonsense?"

"Sire," returned Rechberg, greatly daring, but with Lola's magnetism still upon him, "you will
not regret it. I assure you this one is an exception. She is delightful. That is the only word
for it. Never have I seen anybody to equal her. Such grace, such charm, such ----"

"Pooh!" interrupted Ludwig, cutting short the threatened rhapsodies, "your swan is probably
a goose. Most of them are. Still, now that she's here, let her come in. If she isn't any good,
I'll soon send her about her business."

Brave words, but they availed him nothing. Ludwig shot one glance at the woman who stood before
him, and capitulated utterly.

A sudden thrill passed through him. His sixty years fell away in a flash. A river of blood
surged through his sexagenarian arteries. His boast recoiled upon himself. Rechberg had not
deceived him.

"What has happened to me?" he muttered feebly. "I am bewitched." Then, as the newcomer stood
smiling at him in all her warm loveliness, he found his tongue.

"Mademoiselle, you say you can dance. Well, let me see what you can do. Count Rechberg, you
may leave us."

"Do I dance here, in this room, Your Majesty?"

"Certainly."

Lola wanted nothing better. The opportunity for which she had been planning and scheming ever
since she left Paris had come at last. Well, she would make the most of it. Not in the least
perturbed that there was no accompaniment, and no audience but His Majesty, she executed a
pas seul there and then. It was a "royal performance," and eminently successful. Her feet tripped
lightly across the polished floor, and danced their way straight into Ludwig's heart.

"You shall dance before the public," he announced. "I will myself give orders to the director
of the Hof Theatre."

Luise von Kobell, when a schoolgirl, encountered her by chance just after her arrival, and
thus records the impression she received:

     As I was walking in the Briennerstrasse, not far from the
     Bayersdorf Palace, I saw a veiled lady, wearing a black gown
     and carrying a fan, coming towards me. Something flashed
     across my vision, and I suddenly stood still, completely
     dazzled by the eyes into which I stared, and which shone
     from a pale countenance that lit up with a laughing
     expression at my bewilderment. Then she swept past me; and
     I, forgetting what my governess had said about looking
     round, stared after her until she disappeared.... "That,"
     said my father, when I reached home and recounted my
     adventure, "must have been Lola Montez, the Spanish dancer."

The next evening little Fräulein von Kobell saw her again at the Hof Theatre, where her first
appearance before the Munich public was made on October 10, 1846.

     Lola Montez assumed the centre of the stage. She was not
     dressed in the customary tights and short skirts of a
     ballerina, but in a Spanish costume of silk and lace, in
     which shone at intervals a diamond. It seemed as if fire
     darted from her wonderful blue eyes, and she bowed like one
     of the Graces at the King in the royal box. She danced after
     the manner of her country, bending on her hips and
     alternating one posture with another, each rivalling the
     former one in beauty.

     While she was dancing she held the attention of all;
     everybody's eyes followed her sinuous movements, now
     indicative of glowing passion, now of frolicsomeness. Not
     until she ceased her rhythmic swayings was the spell
     interrupted. The audience went mad with rapture, and the
     entire dance had to be repeated over and over again.

Ludwig, ensconced in the royal box, could not take his eyes off her. During an entr'acte he
scribbled a verse:

    Happy movements, clear and near,
      Are in thy living grace.
    Supple and tender, as a deer
      Art thou, of Andalusian race!

"Wunderschön!" declared an admiring aide-de-camp to whom he showed it.

"Kolossal!" echoed a second, not to be outdone in recognising laureateship.

As, however, the cheers were mingled with a few hisses ("due to the report that the newcomer
was an English Freemason, and wanted to destroy the Catholic religion"), the next evening the
management took the precaution of filling the pit with a leather-lunged and horny-handed claque.
This time the bill consisted of a comedy, Der Weiberseind von Benedix, followed by a cachucha
and a fandango with Herr Opsermann for a dancing-partner.

Lola's success was assured; and Herr Frays, who had started by refusing to let her appear,
was now full of grovelling apologies. He offered her a contract. But Lola, having other ideas
as to how her time should be employed in Munich, would not accept it.

"Thank you for nothing," she said. "When I asked you for an engagement, you told me I was not
good enough to dance in your theatre. Well, I have now proved to both Fräulein Frenzal and
yourself that I am. That is all I care about, and I shall not dance again, either for you or
for anybody else."

If she had known enough German, she would probably have added: "Put that in your pipe and smoke
it!"

Munich in those days must have proved attractive to people with small incomes. Thus, Edward
Wilberforce, who spent some years there, says that meat was fivepence a pound, beer twopence-halfpenny
a quart, and servants' wages eight shillings a month. But there were drawbacks.

"The city," says an English guide-book of this period, "has the reputation of being a very
dissolute capital." Yet it swarmed with churches. The police, too, exercised a strict watch
upon the hotel registers; and, as a result of their activities, a "French visitor was separated
from his feminine companion on grounds of public morality."

"None of your Parisian looseness for us!" said the City Fathers.

But Lola appears to have avoided any such rigid censorship. At any rate, a certain Auguste
Papon (a mixture of pimp and souteneur), whom she had met in Paris, happened to be in Munich
at the same time as herself. The intimacy was revived; and, as he did not possess the entrée
to the Court, for some weeks they lived together at the Hotel Maulich. In the spring of 1847
a young Guardsman found himself in the town, on his way back to England from Kissengen. He
records that, not knowing who she was, he sat next Lola Montez at dinner one evening, and gives
an instance of her quick temper. "On the floor between us," he says, "was an ice-pail, with
a bottle of champagne. A sudden quarrel occurred with her neighbour, a Bavarian lieutenant;
and, applying her foot to the bucket, she sent it flying the length of the room."

IV

Lola certainly made the running. Five days after she first met him, Ludwig summoned all the
officials of the Court, and astonished (and shocked) them by introducing her with the remark:
"Gentlemen, I have the honour to present to you my best friend. See to it that you accord her
every possible respect." He also compelled his long suffering spouse to admit her to the Order
of the Chanoines of St. Thérèse, a distinction for which--considering her somewhat lurid "past"--this
new recipient was scarcely eligible.

When he heard that instructions had been issued for paying special compliments to her, Mr.
Punch registered severe disapproval.

"It is a good joke," he remarked, "to call upon others to uphold the dignity of one who is
always at some freak or other to lower herself."

When she first sailed in dramatic fashion into the orbit of Bavaria's sovereign, Lola Montez
was just twenty-seven. In the full noontide of her beauty and allurement, she was well equipped
with what the modern jargon calls sex-appeal. Big-bosomed and with generously swelling curves,
"her form," says Eduard Fuchs, "was provocation incarnate." Fuchs, who was an expert on the
subject of feminine attractions, knew what he was talking about. "Shameless and impudent,"
adds Heinrich von Treitschke, "and as insatiable in her voluptuous desires as Sempronia, she
could converse with charm among friends; manage mettlesome horses; sing in thrilling fashion;
and recite amorous poems in Spanish. The King, an admirer of feminine beauty, yielded to her
magic. It was as if she had given him a love philtre. For her he forgot himself; he forgot
the world; and he even forgot his royal dignity."

The fact that Lola always wore a Byronic collar helped the theory, held by many, that she was
a daughter of the poet. But her real reason for adopting the style was that she had a lovely
neck, and this set it off to the best advantage. She studied the art of dress and gave it an
immense amount of care. Where this matter was concerned, no trouble or care was too much. Her
favourite material was velvet, which she considered--and quite justifiably--to exercise an
erotic effect on men of a certain age. She was insistent, too, that the contours of her figure
("her quivering thighs and all the demesnes adjacent thereto") should be clearly revealed,
and in a distinctly provocative fashion. This, of course, was not far removed from exhibitionism.
As a result, bourgeois opinion was outraged. The wives of the petty officials shopping in the
Marienplatz shuddered, and clutched their ample skirts when they saw her; anxious mothers instructed
dumpy Fräuleins "not to look like the foreign woman." There is no authoritative record that
any of them did so.

CHAPTER VIII

LUDWIG THE LOVER

I

Lola Montez had done better than "hook a prince." A lot better. She had now "hooked" a sovereign.
Her ripe warm beauty sent the thin blood coursing afresh through Ludwig's sluggish veins. There
it wrought a miracle. He was turned sixty, but he felt sixteen.

The conversation of Robert Burns is said to have "swept a duchess off her feet." Perhaps it
did. But that of Lola Montez had a similar effect on a monarch. Under the magic of her spell,
this one became rejuvenated. The years were stripped from him; he was once more a boy. With
his charmer beside him, he would wander through the Nymphenburg Woods and under the elms in
the Englischer Garten, telling her of his dreams and fancies. His passion for Greece was forgotten.
Pericles was now Romeo.

    In dem Suden ist die Liebe,
    Da ist Licht und da ist Glut!

that is,

    In the south there is love,
    There is light and there is heat,

sang Ludwig.

Yet Lola Montez was not by any means the first who ever burst into the responsive heart of
Ludwig I. She had many predecessors there. One of them was an Italian syren. But that Lola
soon ousted her is clear from a poetical effort of which the royal troubadour was delivered.
This begins:

    Tropfen der Seligkeit und ein Meer von bitteren Leiden
      Die Italienerin gab--Seligkeit, Seligkeit nur
    Lässest Du mich entzündend, begeistert, befändig empfinden,
      In der Spanierin fand Liebe und Leben ich nur!

A free rendering of this passionate heart throb would read very much as follows:

    Drops of bliss and a sea of bitter sorrow
      The Italian woman gave me. Bliss, only bliss,
    Thou gav'st my enraptured heart and soul and spirit.
      In the Spanish woman alone have I found Love and Life!

Ludwig had a prettier name for his inamorata than the "feminine devil" of Henry LXXII of Reuss.
He called her the "Lovely Andalusian" and the "Woman of Spain." She also inspired him to fresh
poetic flights. One of these ran:

    Thine eyes are blue as heavenly vaults
      Touched by the balmy air;
    And like the raven's plumage is
      Thy dark and glistening hair!

There were several more verses.

A feature of the Residenz Palace was a collection of old masters. Wanting to add a young mistress,
Ludwig allotted a place of honour among them to a portrait of Lola Montez, from the brush of
Josef Stieler. The work was well done, for the artist was inspired by his subject; and he painted
her wearing a costume of black velvet, with a touch of colour added by red carnations in her
head-dress.

Ludwig's heart being large, Die Schönheitengalerie (as the "Gallery of Beauties" was called)
filled two separate rooms. The one qualification for securing a niche on the walls being a
pretty face, the collection included the Princess Alexandra of Bavaria (daughter of the King
of Greece), the Archduchess Sophie of Austria, and the Baroness de Krüdener (catalogued as
the "spiritual sister" of the Czar Alexander I), a popular actress, Charlotte Hagen, a ballet-dancer,
Antoinette Wallinger, and the daughters of the Court butcher and the municipal town-crier.
To these were added a quartet of Englishwomen, in Lady Milbanke (the wife of the British Minister),
Lady Ellenborough, Lady Jane Erskine, and Lady Teresa Spence. It was to this gallery that Ludwig
was accustomed to retire for a couple of hours every evening, to "meditate" on the charms of
its occupants. Being, however, possessed of generous instincts, and always ready (within limits)
to share his good things, the public were admitted on Sunday afternoons.

But Ludwig could scratch, as well as purr. On one occasion he chanced to meet a lady who had
figured among the occupants of the Schönheiten. She was considerably past the first flush of
youth, and Ludwig, exercising his prerogative, affected not to remember her.

"But, Sire," she protested, "I used to be in your gallery."

"That, madame," was the response, "must have been a very long time ago. You would certainly
not be there now."

II

From her modest hotel, where, soon tiring of his society, she left Auguste Papon to stay by
himself, Lola took up fresh quarters in a small villa which the King had placed at her disposal
in the Theresienstrasse, a boulevard conveniently near the Hofgarten and the Palace. While
comfortable enough, it was held to be merely a temporary arrangement. There was not enough
room in it for Lola to expand her wings. She wanted to establish a salon and to give receptions.
Accordingly, she demanded something more suitable. It meant spending money, and Ludwig had
already, he reflected, spent a great deal on her whims and fancies. Still, under pressure,
he came round, and, agreeing that there must be a fitting nest for his love-bird (with a perch
in it for himself), he summoned his architect, Metzger, and instructed him to build one in
the more fashionable Barerstrasse.

"No expense is to be spared," he said.

None was spared.

The new dwelling, which adjoined the Karolinen Platz, was really a bijou palace, modelled on
the Italian style. Everything in it was of the best, for Ludwig had cash and Lola had taste.
Thus, her toilet-set was of silver ware; her china and glass came from Dresden: the rooms were
filled with costly nicknacks; mirrors and cabinets and vases and bronzes; richly-bound books
on the shelves; and valuable tapestries and pictures on the walls. French elegance, added to
Munich art, with a touch of solid English comfort in the shape of easy chairs and couches.

To check a playful habit that the Munich mob had of throwing bricks through them, when they
had drunk more beer than they could carry, the windows were fitted with iron grilles. As a
further precaution, a mounted officer always accompanied the Barerstrasse châtelaine when she
was driving in public, and sentries stood at the door, to keep the curious at a respectful
distance.

A description of the Barerstrasse nest was sent to London by a privileged journalist who had
inspected it:

"The style of luxury in which Lola Montez lives here passes all bounds. Nothing to equal it
has been met with in Munich. It might almost be an Aladdin's palace! The walls of her bed-chamber
are hung with guipure and costly satin. The furniture is of Louis XV era, and the mantelpiece
is of valuable Sèvres porcelain. The garden is filled with rare flowers, and the carriages
and horses in the stables are the wonder and envy of the honest burghers."

"The Queen herself could not be better housed," said Lola delightedly, when she saw all the
luxuries of which she was now the mistress.

"You are my Queen," declared Ludwig fondly.

While Lola, to please her patron, grappled with the intricacies of the German tongue, Ludwig,
to please his charmer, took lessons from her in Spanish. She still stuck to her Andalusian
upbringing, and is said (but the report lacks confirmation) to have introduced him to à Kempis.
This, however, is probably a misprint for Don Quixote. None the less, her inspiration was such
that her pupil could write:

    Thou dost not wound thy lover with heartless tricks;
    Nor dost thou play with him wantonly.
    Thou art not for self; thy nature is generous and kind.
    My beloved! Thou art munificent and unchanging.

       *       *       *       *       *

    "Give me happiness!" I begged with fierce longing.
    And happiness I received from thee, thou Woman of Spain!

Notwithstanding the suggestion implied by this assurance, Lola always insisted that her relations
with the King were purely platonic. While this view is a little difficult to accept, it is
significant that Ludwig's lawful spouse never objected to their "friendship." Her Majesty,
however, was of a placid temperament. Perhaps, too, she thought that the fancy would not endure.
If so, she was wrong, for, with the passage of time, the newcomer was obviously consolidating
her position. "Lola Montez, of horse-whipping notoriety," remarked a journalist, "appears to
be increasing in favour at the Court of Bavaria. The Queen calls her 'My dear,' and the ladies
consider it their duty to caress the one who has all the world of Munich at her feet."

During the summer, Ludwig, divesting himself of the cares of state, retired to his castle at
Bruckenau, picturesquely situated in the Fulda Forest; and Lola, attended by a squadron of
Cuirassiers, accompanied him to this retreat. There, as in the Nymphenburg Park, Ludwig dreamed
dreams, while Lola amused herself with the officers of the escort. Halcyon days--and nights.
They inspired His Majesty with yet another "poem":

      SONG OF WALHALLA

    Through the holy dome, oh come,
    Brothers, let us roam along;
    Let from thousand throats the hum
    Rise, like rivers, swift and strong!

    When the notes have died away
      Let us clasp each other's hand;
    And, to high Heaven, let us pray
      For our dearest Fatherland!

While she accorded it full value, Lola Montez did not depend on mere beauty for her power.
She had a markedly sadistic vein in her composition; and, when annoyed, was not above laying
about her right and left with a dog-whip that she always carried. An impudent lackey would
be flogged into submission, or set upon by a fierce mastiff that she kept at her heels. High
office, too, meant nothing to her. She boxed the ears of Baron Pechman; and, because he chanced
to upset her, she encouraged her four-coated companion to tear the best trousers of Professor
Lasaulx, the nephew of Görrez, a Cabinet Minister.

Her English bulldog (with apparently a strain of Presbyterian blood in him) had an unerring
scent for Jesuits. He seemed to disapprove of their principles as much as his mistress did,
and would attack them at sight. This animal would also appear to have been something of a prohibitionist.
At any rate, he once bit a brewer's carman, delivering goods to a bierkeller. When the victim
expostulated, Lola struck him with her whip. This infuriated the crowd to such an extent that
she had to take refuge in a shop. There she happened to jostle a lieutenant, who, not recognising
her, ventured on a protest. The next morning he received a challenge from a fire-eating comrade,
alleging that he had "insulted a lady." Because the challenge was refused, a "court of honour"
had him deprived of his commission.

III

What a distressed commentator has dubbed the "equivocal position" of Lola Montez at Munich
also stuck in the gullet of the Cabinet, and heads were shaken. Public affronts were offered
her. When she visited the Odéon Theatre, the stalls adjoining the one she occupied were promptly
emptied. "Respectable women drew back, exhibiting on their countenances disgust and terror."
But the masculine members of the audience were less exclusive, or perhaps made of sterner material,
for they displayed eagerness to fill up the vacant stalls. "A new chivalry was born," says
a chronicler of town gossip, "and paladins were anxious to act as a buckler."

With the passage of time the infatuation of the Wittelsbach Lovelace became so marked that
it could not be ignored in places beyond Munich. The Countess Bernstorff grew seriously perturbed.
"There has long been talk," she confided to a friend, "as to whether King Ludwig would so far
presume on the kindness and indulgence of the Queen of Prussia as to bring Lola Montez to Court
during Her Majesty's forthcoming stay in Munich." The problem, however, was solved by the tactful
action of Lola herself, who gave the palace a wide berth until the visit had come to an end.

In his Memoirs of Madam Jenny Lind-Goldschmidt shocked horror is similarly expressed by Canon
Scott Holland at the possibility of the Swedish Nightingale, who was arranging to give a concert
there, encountering Lola in her audience:

     The time fixed for this visit to Munich was, in one respect,
     most unpropitious; and, for a young artist, unsupported by
     powerful moral protection, the visit itself might well have
     proved extremely unpleasant. It was impossible to sing at
     Court, for the reigning spirit in the household of King
     Ludwig I was the notorious Lola Montez, who was then at the
     climax of her ill-gotten power. To have been brought into
     contact with such a person would have been intolerable. An
     invitation to Court would have rendered such contact
     inevitable.

But if Jenny Lind adopted a lofty attitude and refused to fulfil an engagement in the Bavarian
capital, lest she should have chanced to rub shoulders with Ludwig's mistress, other visitors
did not share these qualms. They arrived in battalions, and evinced no disinclination to make
her acquaintance. "To the shame of the aristocracy and the arts," says a rigid commentator,
"every day there were to be found at the feet of this Cyprian intruder a throng of princes
and philosophers, authors and painters, and sculptors and musicians."

Fresh tactics to get her out of Munich were then adopted. When, however, somebody remarked
that Ludwig was old enough to be her grandfather, she sent him away with a flea in his ear.

"It is ridiculous to talk like that," she said. "My Ludwig's heart is young. If you knew the
strength of his passion, you would not credit him with being more than twenty!"

As for Ludwig himself he was bombarded with anonymous letters and warnings, calling Lola by
every evil name that occurred to the writers. She was La Pompadour and the Sempronia of Sallust
in one, a "voluptuous woman," and a "flame of desire." There were also tearful protests from
the higher clergy, who, headed by Archbishop Diepenbrock, were positive that the "dancing woman"
was an emissary of Satan (sometimes they said of Lord Palmerston) sent from England to destroy
the Catholic religion in Bavaria.

Ludwig was curt with His Grace. "You stick to your stola," he said, "and let me stick to my Lola."

A soft answer, perhaps; but not a very satisfactory one.

"It is all very well for kings to have mistresses," was the opinion of the more broad-minded,
"but they should select them from their own countrywomen. This one is a foreigner. Why should
our hard-earned money be lavished on her?" The grievance was, as it happened, well founded,
for Lola was drawing 20,000 marks a year, wrung from the pockets of the tax-payers.

Baron Pechman, the Chief of Police, had a bad reception when he suggested that the populace
might get out of control.

"If you can't manage the mob," said Ludwig, turning on him furiously, "I'll get someone who
can. A change of air may do you good."

The next morning the discomfited Baron Pechman found himself dégommé and a successor appointed
to his office.

The intrigue was too openly conducted to be "hushed up." Word of what was happening in Munich
soon filtered through to Vienna. Queen Caroline-Augusta, Ludwig's sister, shook her head. "Alas,"
she sighed, "my wretched brother is always bringing fresh shame on me." She wrote him letters
of tearful protest. They were ignored. She protested by word of mouth. Ludwig, in unbrotherly
fashion, told her to "mind her own business." Caroline's next move was to take clerical counsel.
"These creatures are always venal," said the Jesuits. "They only care for cash." An emissary
was accordingly despatched to the Barerstrasse mansion, to convey an offer. Unfortunately,
however, he had not advanced beyond "Gnädige Frau, erlauben," when he himself capitulated to
Lola's charms, and returned to the Hofburg, his task unaccomplished. Still, he must have made
out some sort of story to save his face, for the Princess Mélanie wrote: "Our good Senfft has
come back. He was unable to speak to Lola Montez. The poor country of Bavaria is in a sad condition,
which gets worse every day."

The least disturbed individual appeared to be Queen Thérèse. Her attitude was one of placidity
itself. But perhaps she was, by this time, accustomed to the dalliance of her Ludwig along
the primrose path. Also, she probably knew by experience that it was not the smallest use making
a fuss. The milk was spilled. To cry over it now would be a wasted effort.

The King's favourite was good "copy" for the Bavarian press; and the Munich journals were filled
with accounts of her activities. Not in the least upset by their uncomplimentary references
to himself, Ludwig instructed his librarian, Herr Lichenthaler, to collect all the pasquinades,
lampoons, squibs, and caricatures (many of them far from flattering, and others verging on
the indecent) that appeared and have them sumptuously bound. It was not long before enough
had been assembled to fill half a dozen volumes. His idea was "to preserve for posterity all
this mountain of mud, as a witness of Bavaria's shame." That somebody else was responsible
for the "shame" did not occur to him.

A choice specimen among the collection was one entitled Lola Montez, oder Des Mench gehört
dem Könige ("Lola Montez, or the Wench who belongs to the King"). There was also a scurrilous,
and distinctly blasphemous, broadsheet, purporting to be Lola's private version of the Lord's
Prayer:

     "Our Father, in whom throughout my life, I have never yet
     had much belief, all's well with me. Hallowed be thy
     name--so far as I am concerned. Thy kingdom come, that is,
     my bags of gold, my polished diamonds, and my unpolished
     Alemannia. Thy will be done, if thou wilt destroy my
     enemies. Give me this day champagne and truffles and
     pheasant, and all else that is delectable, for I have a very
     good appetite.... Lead me not into temptation to return to
     this country, for, even if I were bullet-proof, I might be
     arrested, clapped into a cage, and six francs charged for a
     peep at me. Amen!"

IV

Those were the days when gentlemen (at any rate, Bavarians) did not necessarily prefer blondes.
Lola's raven locks were much more to their taste. If she were not a success in the ballet,
she was certainly one in the boudoir. Of a hospitable and gregarious disposition, she kept
what amounted to open house in her Barerstrasse villa. Every morning she held an informal levée
there, at which any stranger who sent in his card was welcome to call and pay his respects;
and in the evenings, when she was not dancing attendance on Ludwig at the Palace, the Barerstrasse
reception would be followed by a soirée. These gatherings attracted--in addition to a throng
of artists and authors and musicians--professors and scholars from all over Europe; and, as
Gertrude Aretz remarks, in her admirable study, The Elegant Woman (with considerable reference
to this one): "the best intellects of her century helped to draw her victorious chariot." The
uncultured mob, however, dubbed her a "Fair Impire" and a "Light o' Love," and flung even stronger
and still more uncomplimentary epithets. Their subject, however, received them with a laugh.
The shopkeepers, with an eye to business, embellished their wares with her portrait; and the
University students, headed by Fritz Peissner, serenaded her in front of her windows.

    Lolita schön, wie Salamoni's Weiber.
    Welch 'suszer Reis flog über dich dahin!

they sang in rousing chorus.

Among the students engaged in amassing light and learning at the University of Munich, there
were a number of foreigners. One of them was a young American, Charles Godfrey Leland ("Hans
Breitmann"), who had gone there, he says, to "study æsthetics." But this did not take up all
his time, for, during the intervals of attending classes, he managed to see something of Lola
Montez.

Well, if it comes to that, Leland for his part was not above "romancing" and "embroidering."
His books are full of these qualities. "Marvels," says a biographer, "fill his descriptions
of student life at Munich. Interesting people figure in his reminiscences.... Prominent among
them was Lola Montez, the King's favourite of the day, cordially hated by all Munich for an
interference in public affairs, hardly to be expected from the 'very small, pale, and thin
or frèle little person with beautiful blue eyes and curly black hair' who flits across the
pages of the Memoirs."

If this were Leland's real opinion of Lola's appearance, he must have formed it after drinking
too much of the Munich beer of which he was so fond. He seems to have drunk a good deal at
times, as he admits in one passage: "after the dinner and wine, I drank twelve schoppens."
A dozen imperial pints would take some swallowing, and not leave the memory unclouded as to
subsequent events.

V

Despite the alleged Spanish blood in her veins, Lola (with, perhaps, some dim stirring of memory
for the far-off Montrose chapter) declared herself a staunch Protestant, and, like her pet
bull dog, disavowed the Jesuits and all their works. Hence, she supported the Liberal Government;
and, as an earnest of her intentions, started operations by attempting to establish contact
with von Abel, the head of the Ultramontane Ministry. He, however, affecting to be hurt at
the bare suggestion, would have nothing to do with the "Scarlet Woman," as he did not scruple
to call her. Following his example, the clerical press redoubled their attacks. As a result,
Lola decided to form an opposition and to have a party of her own. For this purpose she turned
to some of the younger students, among whom she had a particular admirer in one Fritz Peissner.
In response to her smiles, he, together with Count Hirschberg and a number of his friends,
embodied themselves in a special corps, pledged to act as her bodyguard. Its members elected
to be known as the Alemannia, and invited her to accept the position of Ehren-Schwester ("honorary
sister"). Lola was quite agreeable, and reciprocated by setting apart a room in her villa where
the swash-bucklers could meet. Not to be outdone in paying compliments, the Alemannia planted
a tree in her garden on Christmas Day. Their distinguishing badge (which would now probably
be a black shirt) was a red cap. As was inevitable, they were very soon at daggers drawn with
the representatives of the other University Corps, who, having long-established traditions,
looked upon the newcomers as upstarts, and fights between them were constantly occurring when
they met in public. Altogether, Ludwig had reason to regret his action in transferring the
University from its original setting at Landshut. On the other hand, Councillor Berks, a thick
and thin champion of Lola (and not above taking her lap-dogs for an airing in the Hofgarten),
supported the Alemannia, declaring them to be "an example to corrupt youth." Prince Leiningen
retaliated by referring to him as "that wretched substitute for a minister, commonly held by
public opinion in the deepest contempt."

The origin of the Alemannia was a little curious. Two members of the Palatia Corps happened
one afternoon, while peering through the windows of the Barerstrasse mansion, to see Lola entertaining
a couple of their fellow-members. This they held to be "an affront to the honour of the Palatia,"
and the offenders, glorying in their conduct, were expelled by the committee. Thereupon, they
joined with Fritz Peissner when he was thinking of establishing a fresh corps.

In her new position, Lola did not forget her old friends. Feeling her situation with Ludwig
secure, she wrote to Liszt, offering him "the highest order that Bavaria could grant." He declined
the suggestion, and sent word of her doings to Madame d'Agoult:

     Apropos of this too celebrated Anglo-Spanish woman, have you
     heard that King Louis of Bavaria has demanded the sacrifice
     of her theatrical career? and that he is keeping her at
     Munich (where he has bought her a house) in the quality of a
     favourite Sultanah?

Later on, he returned to the subject:

     I have been specially pleased with a couple of allusions to
     Lola and this poor Mariette; but, to be perfectly
     candid--and being afraid that you would find the subject a
     little indecorous--I began to reproach myself for having
     mentioned it to you in my last letter from Czernowitz.

     In speaking of Lola, you tell me that you defend her (which
     I do also, but not for the same reasons) because she stands
     for progress. Then, a page further on, in resuming the
     subject at Vienna, you find me very young to still believe
     in justice, not realising that, in this little circle of
     ideas and things, I represent in Europe a progressive and
     intelligent movement. "Alas! Who represents anything in
     Europe to-day?" you enquire with Bossuet.

     Well, then, Lola stands for the nineteenth century, and
     Daniel Stern stands for the woman of the ninth century; and,
     were it not for having contributed to the representation of
     others, I too shall finish by representing something else,
     by means of the 25,000 francs of income it will be necessary
     for me to end up by securing.

CHAPTER IX

"MAÎTRESSE DU ROI"

I

The role for which Lola cast herself was that of La Pompadour to the Louis XV of Ludwig I.
She had been a coryphée. Now she was a courtesan. History was repeating itself. Like an Agnes
Sorel or a Jane Shore before her, she held in Munich the semi-official and quite openly acknowledged
position of the King's mistress. It is said of her that she was so proud of the title and all
it implied, that she would add "Maîtresse du Roi" to her signature when communicating with
understrappers at the palace. Ludwig, however, thought this going too far, and peremptorily
forbade the practice. Lola gave way. Perhaps the only time on record. In return, however, she
advanced a somewhat embarrassing demand.

"My position as a king's favourite," she said, "entitles me to the services of a confessor
and a private chapel."

Ludwig was quite agreeable, and instructed Count Reisach, the Ultramontane Archbishop of Munich,
to select a priest for this responsible office. His Grace, however, reported that all the clergy
in a body had protested to him that, "fearing for their virtue, they could not conscientiously
accept the post."

Disappointed at the rebuff, Lola herself then applied to Dr. Windischmann, the Vicar-General,
telling him that if he would undertake the office she would reciprocate by securing him a bishopric.
This dignitary, however, was not to be tempted. "Madame," he said, "my confessional is in the
Church of Notre-Dame; and you can always go there when you want to accuse yourself of any of
the numerous sins you have committed."

Nor would His Eminence, the Primate of Poland, give any help. All he would do was to get into
his carriage and set off to expostulate with the King. But it was a wasted effort, for Ludwig
insisted that his relations with the conscience-stricken postulant were "nothing more than
platonic." Thereupon, "the superior clergy announced that the designs of Providence were indeed
inscrutable to mere mortals, but they trusted that His Majesty would at any rate change his
mistress." Ludwig, however, brooking no interference with his amours, refused to do anything
of the kind.

"What are you thinking about?" he stormed. "How dare you hint that I am the man to roll myself
in the mud of the gutter? My feelings for this lady are of the most lofty and high-minded description.
If you drive me to extremes, heaven alone knows what will happen!"

His Eminence met the outburst by whispering in the ear of the Bishop of Augsburg that the King
was "possessed." As for the Bishop of Augsburg, he "wept every day." A leaky prelate.

"It is a paradox," was the expert opinion of Archbishop Diepenbrock, "that the more shameful
she is, the more beautiful is a courtesan." A "Day of Humiliation," with a special prayer composed
by himself, was his suggestion for mending matters; and Madame von Krüdener, not to be outdone
in coming to the rescue, preached the necessity of "public penance." Thus taken to task, Ludwig
solemnly declared in writing that he had "never exacted the last favours" from Lola Montez,
and furnished the entire episcopal bench with a copy of this declaration.

"That only makes his folly the greater," was the caustic comment of Canitz, who was not to
be deluded by eye-wash of this description.

With the passage of time, Lola's influence at the Palace grew stronger. Before long, it became
abundantly clear to the Ministry that she was the real channel of approach to the King and,
in fact, his political Egeria. "During that period," says T. Everett Harré, "when she was known
throughout the world as the 'Uncrowned Queen of Bavaria,' Lola Montez wielded a power perhaps
enjoyed by no woman since the Empress Theodora, the circus mime and courtesan, was raised to
imperial estate by the Emperor Justinian." Well aware of this fact, and much as they objected
to it, the Cabinet, headed by von Abel, began by attempting to win her to their side. When
they failed, they put their thick heads together, and, announcing that she was an emissary
of Palmerston--just as La Paiva was credited with being in Bismarck's employ--they hinted that
her room was preferable to her company. The hints having no effect, other measures were adopted.
Thus, Ludwig's sister offered her a handsome sum (for the second time) to leave the country,
and Metternich improved on it; the Bishop of Augsburg, drying his tears, composed another and
longer special prayer; the Cabinet threatened to resign; and caricatures and scurrilous paragraphs
once more appeared in Munich journals. But all to no purpose. Lola refused to budge. Nothing
could shake her resolve, J'y suis, j'y reste, might well have been her motto.

"I will leave Bavaria," she said, "when it suits me, and not before."

II

For ten years Ludwig had been under the thumb of the Ultramontanes and the clerical ministry
of Carl von Abel. He was getting more than a little tired of the combination. The advance of
Lola Montez widened the breach. To get rid of him, accordingly, he offered von Abel the appointment
of Bavarian Minister at Brussels. The offer, however, was not accepted. Asked for his reason,
von Abel said that he "wanted to stop where he was and keep an eye on things."

At this date Bavaria was Catholic to a man--and a woman--and the Ultramontanes held the reins
of government. While one would have been enough, they professed to have two grievances. One
was the "political poison" of the Liberal opposition; and the other was the "moral perversion"
of the King. In March matters came to a crisis. A number of University professors, headed by
the rigid Lasaulx, held an indignation meeting in support of the Ultramontane Cabinet and "their
efforts to espouse the cause of good morals." This activity on the part of a secular body was
resented by the clergy, who considered that they, and not the University, were the official
custodians of the public's "morals." But if it upset the clergy, it upset Ludwig still more;
and, to mark his displeasure, he summarily dismissed four of the lecturers he himself had appointed.
As the general body of students sided with them, they "demonstrated" in front of the house
of Lola Montez, whom they held responsible.

What began as a very ordinary disturbance soon developed into something serious. Tempers ran
high; brickbats were thrown, and windows smashed; there were collisions with the police, who
endeavoured to arrest the ringleaders; and finally the Karolinen Platz had to be cleared by
a squadron of Cuirassiers. The Alemannia, joining arms, forced a passage through which Lola
managed to slip to safety and reach the gates of the Residenz. But it was, as she said, "a
near thing."

The crowd relieved their feelings by breaking a few more windows; and a couple of Alemannia,
detached from their comrades, were ducked in the Isar.

"Vivat, Lola!" bellowed one contingent.

"Pereat, Lola!" bellowed the opposition.

Accounts of the disturbance filtered through to England. There they attracted much attention
and acid criticism.

"A lady," remarked the Examiner, "has overthrown the Holy Alliance of Southern Germany. Lola
Montez, whose affecting testimony during the trial of those who killed Dujarier in a duel cannot
but be remembered, was driven by that catastrophe to seek her fortunes in other realms. Chance
brought her to Munich, the Sovereign of which capital has divided his time between poetry and
the arts, gallantry and devotion."

"What Paphian cestus," was another sour comment, "does Lola wind round the blade of her poniard?
We all remember how much the respectable Juno was indebted to the bewitching girdle of a less
regular fair one, but the properties of that talisman are still undescribed."

The Thunderer, in its capacity as a European watch-dog, had its eye on Ludwig and his dalliance
along the primrose path. Disapproval was registered. "The King of Bavaria," solemnly announced
a leading article, "has entirely forgotten the duties and dignities of his position."

Freiherr zu Canitz, however, who had succeeded von Bülow as Minister for Foreign Affairs, looked
upon Ludwig's lapse with more indulgence. "It is not," he wrote from the Wilhelmstrasse, "the
first time by any means that kings have chosen to live with dancers. While such conduct is
not, perhaps, strictly laudable, we can disregard it if it be accompanied by a certain measure
of decorum. Still, a combination of ruler-ship and dalliance with a vagrant charmer is a phenomenon
that is as much out of place as is an attempt to govern a country by writing sonnets."

Availing herself of what was then, as now, looked upon as a natural safety-valve, Lola herself
wrote to the Times, giving her own version of these happenings:

     I left Paris in June last on a professional trip; and, among
     other arrangements, decided upon visiting Munich where, for
     the first time, I had the honour of appearing before His
     Majesty and receiving from him marks of appreciation, which
     is not a very unusual thing for a professional person to
     receive at a foreign Court.

     I had not been here a week before I discovered that there
     was a plot existing in the town to get me out of it, and
     that the party was the Jesuit Party.... When they saw that
     I was not likely to leave them, they tried what bribery
     would do; and actually offered me 50,000 fcs. a year if I
     would quit Bavaria and promise never to return. This, as you
     may imagine, opened my eyes; and, as I indignantly refused
     their offer, they have since not left a stone unturned to
     get rid of me.... Within this last week a Jesuit professor
     of philosophy at the university here, named Lasaulx, was
     removed. Thereupon, the party paid and hired a mob to insult
     me and break the windows of my house.

     ... Knowing that your columns are always open to protect
     anyone unjustly accused, and more especially when that one
     is an unprotected female, makes me rely upon you for the
     insertion of this; and I have the honour to subscribe
     myself, your obliged servant,

     LOLA MONTEZ.

A couple of weeks later Printing House Square was favoured with a second epistle:

     To the Editor of "The Times."

     MUNICH,

     March 31.

     SIR:--In consequence of the numerous reports circulated in
     various papers regarding myself and family, I beg of you,
     through the medium of your widely circulated journal, to
     insert the following:

     I was born at Seville in the year 1833; my father was a
     Spanish officer in the service of Don Carlos; my mother, a
     lady of Irish extraction, born at the Havannah, and married
     to an Irish gentleman, which, I suppose, is the cause of my
     being called sometimes Irish and sometimes English, and
     "Betsy Watson," and "Mrs. James," etc.

     I beg leave to say that my name is Maria Dolores Porres
     Montez, and I have never changed that name.

     As for my theatrical qualifications, I never had the
     presumption to think I had any. Circumstances obliged me to
     adopt the stage as a profession, which profession I have now
     renounced for ever, having become a naturalised Bavarian,
     and intending in future making Munich my residence.

     Trusting that you will give this insertion, I have the
     honour to remain, Sir,

     Your obedient servant,

     LOLA MONTEZ.

The assumption that she had ever been known as "Betsy Watson" was due to the fact that she
was said at one period to have lived under this name in Dublin, "protected there by an Irishman
of rank and fortune." With regard to the rest of the letter, this was much the same as the
one she had circulated after her London fiasco. It was very far from being well founded. Still,
she had repeated this story so often that she had probably come to believe in it herself.

As The Times at that period was not read in Munich to any great extent, Lola, wanting a larger
public, sent a letter to the Allegemeine Zeitung. This, she thought, would secure her a measure
of sympathy not accorded her elsewhere:

"I object to being made a target for countless malicious attacks--public and private, written
and printed--some whispered in secret, and others uttered to the world. I therefore now stigmatise
as a wicked liar and perverter of the truth any individual who shall, without proving it, disseminate
any report to my detriment."

The letter was duly published. The attacks, however, did not end. On the contrary, they redoubled
in virulence. All sorts of fresh charges were brought against her. Many of them were quite
unfounded, and deliberately ignored much that might have been put to her credit. Lola had not
done nearly as much harm as some of Ludwig's lights o' love. Her predecessors, however, had
made themselves subservient to the Jesuits and clericals. When her friends sent protests to
the editor, refuge was taken in the stereotyped reply: "pressure on our space does not permit
us to continue this correspondence."

By those who wished her ill, any stick was good enough with which to beat Lola Montez. Thus,
when a dignitary died--no matter what the medical diagnosis--it was announced in the gutter
press that he died of "grief, caused by the national shame." The alleged last words of a certain
politician were declared to be: "I die because I cannot continue living under the orders of
a strumpet who rules our dear Bavaria as if she were a princess." Ludwig took it calmly. "The
real trouble with this poor fellow," he said, "is that he never experienced the revivifying
effects of the love of a beautiful woman." A popular prescription. The local doctors, however,
were coy about recommending it to their patients.

That the Munich disturbances had an aftermath is clear from a news item that appeared in the
Cologne Gazette of July, 3, 1847. Lola, wanting a change of air and scene, had gone on a tour,
travelling incognita and without any escort. Still, as she was to discover, it was impossible
for her to move without being recognised:

     According to letters from Bavaria, it is obvious that the
     animosities excited against Lola Montez earlier in the year
     are far from having subsided. On passing through Nuremberg,
     she was received with coldness, but decency. At Bamberg,
     however, it was very different. At the railway station she
     was hissed and hooted, and, stones being thrown at her
     carriage, she presented her pistols and threatened to punish
     her assailants. The upper classes were thoroughly ashamed of
     such excesses; and the chief magistrate has been instructed
     to appoint a deputation of the leading citizens to apologise
     to Mademoiselle.

In a letter to his brother, dated July 7, 1847, a University student says: "Lola Montez was
near being assassinated three days ago," but he gives no particulars. Hence, it was probably
gossip picked up in a beer hall.

III

A grievance felt by Lola was that she was not accorded recognition among the aristocracy. But
there was an obvious remedy. This was to grant her a coronet. After all, historic examples
were to hand by the dozen. In modern times the mistress of Frederick William III had been made
a duchess. Hence, Lola felt that she should be at least a countess.

"What special services have you rendered Bavaria?" bluntly demanded the minister to whom she
first advanced the suggestion.

"If nothing else, I have given the King many happy days," was Lola's response.

Curiosity was then exhibited as to whether she was sufficiently hoch-geboren, or not. The applicant
herself had no doubts on the subject. Her father, Ensign Gilbert, she said, had the blood of
Coeur-de-Lion in his veins, and her mother's ancestors were among the Council of the Inquisition.

When the matter was referred to him, Ludwig was sympathetic and readily promised his help.
But as she was a foreigner, she would, he pointed out, have to start by becoming naturalised
as a Bavarian subject; and, under the constitution, the necessary indigenate certificate must
bear the signature of a Cabinet Minister. For this purpose, and never thinking that the slightest
difficulty would be advanced, he had one drawn up and sent to Count Otto von Steinberg. Much
to his annoyance and surprise, however, that individual, "suddenly developing conscientious
objections," excused himself. Thereupon, von Abel, as head of the Government, was instructed
to secure another signature.

"Do not worry. It will be settled to-morrow," announced Ludwig, when Lola enquired the reason
of the hitch.

He was, however, speaking without his book. The Ministry, Ultramontane to a man, could swallow
a good deal, in order to retain their portfolios (and salaries), but this, they felt, was asking
too much of them. In unctuous terms, and taking refuge in offended virtue, they declared they
would resign, rather than countenance the grant of Bavarian nationality for "the foreign woman."
Neither pressure nor threats would shake them. Ludwig could do what he pleased; and they would
do what they pleased.

The manifesto in which the Cabinet's decision was delivered is little short of an historic
document:

     MUNICH.

     February 11, 1847.

     Sir: Public life has its moments when those entrusted by
     their Sovereign with the proper conduct of public affairs
     have to make their choice between renouncing the duties to
     which they are pledged by loyalty and devotion, and, by
     discharging those duties in conscientious fashion, incurring
     the displeasure of their beloved Sovereign. We, the faithful
     servants of Your Majesty, have now found ourselves in this
     situation owing to the decision to grant Bavarian
     nationality to Senora Lola Montez. As we cannot forget the
     duties that our oath compels us to observe, we cannot flinch
     in our resolve....

     It is abundantly clear that reverence for the Throne is
     becoming weakened in the minds of your subjects; and little
     is now heard in all directions but blame and disapproval.
     National sentiment is wounded, because the country considers
     itself to be under the dominion of a foreign woman of evil
     reputation. The obvious facts are such that it is impossible
     to adopt any other view.... The public journals print the
     most shocking anecdotes, together with the most degrading
     attacks on your Royal Majesty. As a sample of this, we
     append a copy of No. 5 of the Ulner Chronic. The vigilance
     of the police is powerless to check the circulation of these
     journals, and they are read everywhere.... Not only is the
     Government being jeopardised, but also the very existence
     of the Crown. Hence, the delight of such as wish ill to the
     Throne, and the anguish of such as are loyal to Your
     Majesty. The fidelity of the army, too, is threatened. Ere
     long, the forces of the Crown will become a prey to profound
     disaffection; and where could we look for help, should this
     occur and this last bulwark totter?

     The hearts of the undersigned loyal and obedient servants
     are torn with grief. This statement they submit to you is
     not one of visionaries. It is the melancholy result of
     observations made by them during the exercise of their
     functions for several months past. Each of the undersigned
     is ready and willing to surrender everything to his
     Sovereign. They have given you repeated proofs of their
     fidelity; and it is now nothing less than their sacred duty
     to direct the attention of your Majesty to the dangers
     confronting him. Our humble prayer, to which we beg you to
     listen, is not governed by any desire to run counter to your
     Royal will. It is put forward solely with a view to ending a
     condition of affairs which is inimical to the well-being and
     happiness of a beloved monarch. Should, however, your
     Majesty not think fit to grant their petition, we, your
     Ministers, will then have no alternative but to tender the
     resignation of the portfolios with which you have entrusted
     them.

The signatories to this precious "manifesto" were von Abel, von Gumpenberg (Minister of War),
von Schrenk, and von Seinsheim (Councillors of State). Much to their hurt astonishment, their
resignations were accepted. Nor was there any lack of candidates for the vacant portfolios.
Ludwig, prompted by Lola, filled up the gaps at once. Georg von Maurer (who reciprocated by
signing her certificate of naturalisation) was appointed Minister of Justice and Foreign Affairs,
and Freiherr Friederich zu Rhein was the new Minister of Public Worship and Finance.

The students, not prepared to let slip a chance of asserting themselves, paraded the streets
with a fresh song:

    Da kam Senorra Lolala,
    Sturzt Abel und Consorten;
    Ach war sie doch jetz wieder da,
    Und jagte fort den----

Despite the fact that he was indebted for his appointment to her, Maurer attempted to snub
Lola and refused to speak to her the next time they met. For his pains, he found himself, in
December, 1847, dismissed from office. There was, however, joy in the ranks of the clerical
party, for, to their horror, he happened to be a Protestant.

"I have now a new ministry, and there are no more Jesuits in Bavaria," announced Ludwig with
much complacence. As was his custom when a national crisis occurred, he was also delivered
of a sonnet, commencing:

    You who have wished to hold me in thrall, tremble!
    Greatly do I esteem the important affair
    Which has ever on divested you of your power!

But the fallen ministers had the sympathy of Vienna. Count Senfft, the Austrian envoy at Munich,
gave a banquet in their honour. Lola reported this to Ludwig, and Ludwig gave Senfft his congé.

What had annoyed the Wittelsbach Lovelace more than anything else about the business was that
the memorandum in which von Abel and his colleagues had expressed their candid opinion of Lola
Montez found its way into the Augsburger Zeitung and a number of Paris journals. This was regarded
by him as a breach of confidence. Enquiries revealed the fact that von Abel's sister had been
surreptitiously shown a copy of the document, and, not prepared to keep such a tit-bit of gossip
to herself, had disclosed its contents to a reporter. After this, the fat, so to speak, was
in the fire; and nothing that Ludwig could do could prevent the affair becoming public property.
As a result, it formed the basis of innumerable articles in the press of Europe, and the worst
possible construction was put on it.

The erudite Dr. Döllinger, between whom and Lola Montez no love was lost, was much upset by
the situation and wrote a long letter on the subject:

     The existing ministry were fully awake to the encroachments
     of the notorious Lola Montez; and in view of the destruction
     which menaced both the throne and the country, they secretly
     resolved to address a petition to Ludwig I, humbly praying
     him to dismiss his favourite, and setting forth the grounds
     on which they based their request.

     Rumours of this business soon got afloat. People began to
     whisper; and one fine day a sister of one of the ministers,
     goaded by curiosity, discovered the petition. She imparted
     the news in the strictest confidence to her most intimate
     friends; and they, in their turn, secretly read the
     memorial, with the result that, some time after the
     important document had been safely restored to its
     hiding-place, its contents appeared, nobody knew how, in the
     newspapers.

     The panic of the ministers was great; the King's displeasure
     was still greater. He suspected treachery, and considered
     the publication of such a petition treasonable.
     Remonstrances were of no avail; the ministers were
     dismissed, and their adherents fled in every direction. I,
     who had been nominated a member of the Chamber by the
     University, but against my will, had to resign office at the
     bidding of the King. His Majesty was greatly incensed, and
     meanwhile the excited populace were assembling in crowds
     before the house of Lola Montez.

Döllinger was a difficult man to cross. He had doubts--serious doubts--concerning a number
of matters. Among them was one of the infallibility of the Pope. What was more, he was daring
enough to express these doubts. The wrath of the Vatican could only be appeased by ex-communicating
him from the Church. He, however, added to his contumacy by surviving until his ninety-second year.

IV

Appreciating on which side its bread was buttered, the new ministry had no qualms as to the
eligibility of Lola Montez for the honour of a coronet in the Bavarian peerage. This having
been granted her, the next step was to select a suitable territorial title.

Ludwig ran an exploring finger down the columns of a gazetteer. There he saw two names, Landshut
and Feldberg, that struck him as suggestive. Combined, they made up Landsfeld. Nothing could
be better.

"I have it," he said. "Countess of Landsfeld, I salute you!"

Thereupon the Court archivist was instructed to prepare the necessary document:

     "We, Ludwig, King of Bavaria, etc., hereby make public to
     all concerned that We have resolved to raise Maria von
     Porres and Montez, of noble Spanish descent, to the dignity
     of Countess of Landsfeld of this Our kingdom. Whilst we
     impart to her the dignity of a Countess, with all the
     rights, honours and prerogatives connected therewith, it is
     Our desire that she have and enjoy the following escutcheon
     on a German four-quartered shield: In the first field, red,
     an upright white sword with golden handle; in the second,
     blue, a golden-crowned lion rampant; the third, blue, a
     silver dolphin; and in the fourth, white, a pale red rose.
     This shield shall be surmounted by the coronet of a
     Countess.

     "Be this notified to all the authorities and to Our subjects
     in general, with a view to not only recognising the said
     Maria as Countess of Landsfeld, but also to supporting her
     in that dignity; and it is Our will that whoever shall act
     contrary to these provisions shall be summoned by Our
     Attorney-General and there and then be condemned to make
     public and private atonement.

     "For Our confirmation of the above we have affixed Our royal
     name to this document and placed on it the seal of Our
     kingdom.

     "Given at Aschaffensberg, this 14th of August, in the 1847th
     year after the birth of Christ, our Lord, and in the 22nd
     year of Our Government."

This did not miss the eagle eye of Punch, in whose columns appeared a caustic reference:

     "The armorial bearings of the new COUNTESS OF LANDSFELD, the
     ex-coryphée of Her Majesty's Theatre, have been designed,
     but we think they are hardly so appropriate as they might
     have been. We have therefore made some slight modifications
     of the original, which we hope will prove satisfactory."

The suggested "modifications" were to substitute a parasol for the sword, a bulldog for the
lion, and a pot of rouge for the rose. Were such an adjunct of the toilet table then in existence,
a lipstick would probably have been added.

V

With her title and heraldic honours complete, plus a generous allowance on which to support
them, and a palace in which to live, Lola Montez cut a very considerable dash in Munich. Two
sentries marched up and down in front of her gate, and two mounted orderlies (instead of one,
as had previously been the case) accompanied her whenever she left the house in the Barerstrasse.

While by far the most important of them, Ludwig was not by any means the only competitor for
Lola's favours. Men of wealth and position--the bearers of high-sounding titles--with politicians
and place-hunters, fluttered round her. It is to her credit that she sent them about their
business.

"The peculiar relations existing between the King of Bavaria and the Countess of Landsfeld,"
remarked an apologist, "are not of a coarse or vulgar character. His Majesty has a highly developed
poetic mind, and thus sees his favourite through his imagination, and regards her with affectionate
respect."

This found a responsive echo in another quarter, and some sharp raps on the knuckles were administered
to the Bavarian moralists by a Paris journal:

     "Why do you interfere with the amours of your good Ludwig?
     We don't say he should not have observed rather more
     discretion or have avoided compromising his dignity. Still,
     a monarch, like a simple citizen, is surely free to love
     where he pleases. In selecting Lola Montez, the amorous
     Ludwig proves that he loves equality and, as a true
     democrat, can identify himself with the public. Let him
     espouse his servant girl, if he wants to. Personally, we
     would rather see the Bavarians excite themselves about their
     constitution than about the banishment of a royal favourite.
     The King of Bavaria turns his mistress into a Countess; his
     subjects refuse to recognise her; and a section of the
     students clamour for her head. Happy days of Montespan, of
     Pompadour, of Dubarry, of Potemkin, of Orloff, where have
     you gone?"

In the summer of 1847 the Paris Courts were occupied with a long outstanding claim against
Lola Montez. This was to the effect that, when she was appearing at the Porte St. Martin, she
had run up a bill for certain intimate undergarments and had neglected to settle the account.
The result was, she received a solicitor's letter in Munich. She answered it in the following
terms:

     MUNICH,

     September 25, 1847.

     MONSIEUR BLOQUE,

     As I have never given any orders to Messrs. Hamon and
     Company, tailors, rue de Helder, they have no claim on me;
     and I am positively compelled to repudiate the bill for
     1371 francs which you have the effrontery to demand in the
     name of this firm.

     Last spring Monsieur Leigh made me a present of a
     riding-habit and certain other articles which he ordered for
     me, and I consider that it is to him you should now address
     yourself.

     Accept, Monsieur, etc.,

     COUNTESS DE LANDSFELD.

Not being prepared to accept this view, the Paris firm's next step was to bring an action for
the recovery of the alleged debt. Once more, Lola repudiated liability, this time on the grounds
that the creditors had kept back some dress material belonging to herself. The defence to this
charge was that, "on being informed by their representative that real ladies could not wear
such common stuff, she had said she did not want it back." The court, however, held that the
debt had been incurred; and, "as she considered it beneath her dignity to appear, either in
person or by counsel," judgment for 2,500 francs was given against her.

Count Bernstorff, a not particularly brilliant diplomatist, had an idea (shared, by the way,
with a good many others) that Frederick William IV, King of Prussia, was at one time under
Lola's spell. He was allowed to think so by reason of a letter that the King had sent him from
Sans Souci in the autumn of 1847:

     "I am charging you, my dear Count, with a commission, the
     performance of which demands a certain degree of that
     measure of delicacy which I recognise you to possess. The
     commission is somewhat beyond the accepted limits of what is
     purely diplomatic in character.... It is a matter of handing
     a certain trinket to a certain lady. The trinket is of
     little value, but, from causes you will be able to
     appreciate, the lady's favour is of very high value to
     myself. All depends on the manner in which the gift is
     presented. This should be sufficiently flattering to
     increase the value of the offering and to cause its
     unworthiness to be overlooked. My acquaintance with the
     lady, and my respect for her, should be adroitly described
     and made the most of, as must also be my desire to be
     remembered at her hands.

     "You will, of course, immediately perceive that I am
     alluding to Donna Maria de Dolores de los Montez, Countess
     of Landsfeld."

It was not until he turned over the page that the horror-struck Bernstorff saw that the King
was playing a characteristic jest on him; and he realised that the intended recipient of the
gift was his wife, the Countess von Bernstorff, "as a souvenir of my gratitude for the many
agreeable hours passed under your hospitable roof last month."

CHAPTER X

BURSTING OF THE STORM

I

The beauty of Lola Montez was a lever. As such, it disturbed the equilibrium of the Cabinet;
for the time being, it even checked the dominion of Rome. But the odds were against her. The
Jesuits were still a power, and would not brook any interference.

Metternich's wife, the Princess Mélanie, who had the family flair for politics, marked the
course of events.

"Lola Montes," she wrote, "has actually been created Countess of Landsfeld. She is really a
member of the Radical Party.... Rechberg, who has just arrived from Brazil, was alarmed on
his journey at Munich by the events of which this town is the theatre. The shocking conduct
of Lola Montes will finish by plunging the country into revolution."

This was looking ahead. Still, not very far ahead. The correspondent of a London paper in the
Bavarian capital did not mince his words. "The indignation," he wrote, "against the King on
account of his scandalous conduct, has been roused to the highest pitch.... King Ludwig, who
possesses many good qualities, is, unfortunately, a very licentious old man.... Neither the
tears of the Queen, nor the entreaties of his sons, nor the public's indignation, could influence
the old monarch, who has become the slave of his silly passion and of the caprices of a Spanish
dancer and Parisian lorette."

Once more, Ludwig "dropped into verse," and relieved his feelings about his enemies. This time,
however, the verse was blank:

    You have driven me from my Paradise,
    You have closed it for ever with iron grilles.
    You have turned my days into bitterness.
    You would even like to make me hate you
    Because I have loved too much to please your withered spirits.

    The perfume of my spring-time is dissipated,
    But my courage still remains.
    Youth, always bounding in my dreams, rests there,
    Embracing my heart with fresh force!

    You who would like to see me covered with shame,
    Tremble!
    You have committed sins against me and vomited injuries.
    Your wicked acts have judged you.
    There has never been anything to equal them!

    Already the clouds disappear;
    The storm passes;
    The sky lights up;
    I bless the dawn.
    Ungrateful worms, creep back to your darkness!

There were repercussions across the Atlantic, where the role played by Lola Montez in Bavarian
circles was arousing considerable interest. American women saw in it a message of encouragement
for the aspirations they themselves were cherishing. "The moral indignation which her political
opponents exhibited," said a leading jurist, "was unfortunately a mere sham. They had not only
tolerated, but had actually patronised, a female who formerly held the equivocal position which
the Countess of Landsfeld recently held, because the former made herself subservient to the
then dominant party."

But, just as Lola had staunch friends in Munich, so had she pronounced enemies. Conspicuous
among them was Johann Görres, a leading Ultramontane who held the position of professor of
history at the University. He could not say anything strong enough against the King's mistress,
and did all he could to upset her influence with him. As he had a "following," some measure
of success attended his efforts. It was on his death, in January 1848, that matters came to
a head. The rival factions dividing the various students' corps made his funeral the occasion
of a free fight among themselves. The mob joined in, and clamoured for the dismissal of the
"Andalusian Woman." A hothead suggested that she should be driven from the town. The cry was
taken up, and a rush set in towards her house in the Barerstrasse. As there was an agreeable
prospect of loot, half the scum of the city swelled the mob. Bricks were hurled through the
windows; and, until the police arrived, things began to look ugly.

Lola, as cool as a cucumber, appeared on the balcony, a glass of champagne in one hand, and
a box of chocolates in the other.

"I drink to your good healths," she said contemptuously, as she drained her glass and tossed
bon-bons among the crowd.

Not appreciating this gesture, or regarding it as an impertinence, the temper of the rabble
grew threatening. They shouted vulgar insults; and there was talk of battering in the doors
and setting the house on fire. This might have happened, had not Ludwig himself, who never
lacked personal courage, plunged into the throng and, offering Lola his arm, escorted her to
the Residenz.

The disturbances continued, for tempers had reached fever pitch. Troops hastily summoned from
the nearest barracks patrolled the streets. A furious crowd assembled in front of the Rathaus;
the burgomaster, fearing for his position, talked of reading the Riot Act; a number of arrests
were made; and it was not until the next afternoon that the coast was sufficiently clear for
Lola to return to the Barerstrasse, triumphantly escorted by some members of the Alemannia.
When, however, they left her there, they were set upon by detachments of the Palatia Corps,
who still cherished a grudge against them.

Lola's own account of these happenings, and written as if by a detached onlooker, is picturesque,
if somewhat imaginative:

     "They came with cannons and guns and swords, with the voices
     of ten thousand devils, and surrounded her little castle.
     Against the entreaties of her friends, she presented herself
     before the infuriated mob which demanded her life.... A
     thousand guns were pointed at her, and a hundred fat and
     apoplectic voices fiercely demanded that she should cause
     the repeal of what she had done. In language of great
     mildness--for it was no time to scold--she answered that it
     was impossible for her to accede to such a request; and that
     what had been done by her had been done for the good of the
     people and the honour of Bavaria."

After this "demonstration," there was a calm. But not for long. On the evening of February
10, a rabble assembled in front of the Palace, raising cries of: "Down with Lola Montez!" "Down
with the King's strumpet!" As the protestors consisted largely of students (whom Thiersch,
the rector, being no disciplinarian, could not keep in check), Ludwig's response was drastic.
He ordered the University to be shut, and all its members who did not live in Munich to leave
the town within twenty-four hours. This was a tactical blunder, and was in great measure responsible
for the more serious repercussions of the following month. Apart, too, from other considerations,
the edict hit the pockets of the local tradesmen, since the absence of a couple of thousand
hungry and thirsty customers had an adverse effect on the consumption of sauerkraut and beer.

As she was still "news" in Paris, a gossiping columnist suggested her return there:

     Lola Montez laments the Notre-Dame de Lorette district, the
     joyous little supper-parties at the Café Anglais, and the
     theatrical first nights viewed from stage boxes. "Ah," she
     must reflect, as she looks upon her coronet trodden
     underfoot and hears the sinister murmurs of the Munich mob,
     "how delightful Paris would be this evening! What a grand
     success I would be in the new ballet at the Opera or at a
     ball at the Winter Garden!" Alas, my poor Lola, your whip is
     broken; your prestige is gone; you have lost your talisman.
     Do not battle against the jealous Bavarians. Come back to
     Paris, instead. If the Porte St. Martin won't have you, you
     can always rejoin the corps de ballet at the Opera.

Lola, however, did not accept the invitation. She was virtually a prisoner in her own house,
where, the next afternoon, a furious gathering assembled, threatening to wreak vengeance on
her. Never lacking a high measure of courage, she appeared on the balcony and told them to
do their worst. They did it and attempted to effect an entrance by breaking down the door.
But for the action of the Alemannia, rallying to her help, she might have been severely handled.

One of her bodyguard managed to make his way to the nearest barracks and summon assistance.
Thereupon, the bugles rang out the alarm; the drums beat a warning call. In response, a squadron
of Cuirassiers clattered up the Barerstrasse; sabres rattled; and the rioters fled precipitously.

Prince Wallerstein, who combined the office of Minister of Public Worship with that of Treasurer
of the Royal Household, leaping into the breach, harangued the mob; and Prince Vrede, a strong
adherent to the "whiff of grapeshot" remedy for a disturbance, suggested firing on the ringleaders.
Although the suggestion was not accepted, hundreds of arrests were made before some semblance
of order was restored. But the rioting was only checked temporarily. A couple of days later
it started afresh. The temper of the troops being upset, Captain Bauer (a young officer whom
Lola had patronised) took it upon himself to give them the word to charge. Sabres flashed,
and there were many broken heads and a good deal of bloodshed.

The Alemannia, thinking discretion the better part of valour, barricaded themselves in the
restaurant of one Herr Rothmanner, where they fortified themselves with vast quantities of
beer. Becoming quarrelsome, their leader, Count Hirschberg, drew his sword and was threatened
with arrest by a schutzmannschaft. Thereupon, his comrades sent word to Lola. She answered
the call, and rushed to the house. It was a characteristic, but mad, gesture, for she was promptly
recognised and pursued by a furious mob. Nobody would give her sanctuary; and the Swiss Guards
on duty there shut the doors of the Austrian Legation in her face. Thereupon, she fled to the
Theatiner Church, where she took refuge. But she did not stop there long; and, for her own
safety, a military escort arrived to conduct her to the main guard-room. As soon as the coast
was comparatively clear, she was smuggled out by a back entrance and making her way on foot
to the Barerstrasse, hid in the garden.

In the meantime fresh attempts were being made to storm her house. Suddenly, a figure, dishevelled
and bare-headed, appeared on the threshold and confronted the rioters.

"You are behaving like a pack of vulgar blackguards," he exclaimed, "and not like true Bavarians
at all. I give you my word, the house is empty. Leave it in peace."

A gallant gesture, and a last act of homage to the building that had sheltered the woman he
loved. The mob, recognising the speaker, uncovered instinctively. Heil, unserm König, Heil!
they shouted. A chorus swelled; the troops presented arms.

"It is an orgy of ingratitude," said Ludwig, as he watched the rabble dancing with glee before
the house. "The Jesuits are responsible. If my Lola had been called Loyala, she could still
have stopped here."

To Dr. Stahl, Bishop of Wurzburg, who had criticised his conduct, he addressed himself more
strongly. "Should a single hair of one I hold dear to me be injured," he informed that prelate,
"I shall exhibit no mercy."

Palmerston, who stood no nonsense from anybody, wrote a very snappy letter to Sir John Milbanke,
British Minister at Munich:

     "Pray tell Prince Wallerstein that, if he wishes the British
     and Bavarian Governments to be on good terms, he will
     abstain from any attempt to interfere with our diplomatic
     arrangements, as such attempts on his part are as offensive
     as they will be fruitless."

II

As Ludwig had said, the Barerstrasse nest was empty, for its occupant had managed to slip out
of it and reach Lindeau. From there, on February 23, she wrote a long letter to a friend in
England, giving a somewhat highly coloured (and not altogether accurate) version of these happenings:

     In the morning, the nobles, with Count A.--V--[Arco Valley]
     and a number of officers, were mixed up with the commonest
     people. The Countess P [Preysing] I saw myself, with other
     women--I cannot call them ladies--actually at their head.
     Hearing that the entire city--with nobles, officers, and
     countesses--were making for my residence, I looked upon
     myself as already out of the land of the living. I had all
     my windows shuttered, and hid all my jewels; and then,
     having a clear conscience and a firm trust in God, calmly
     awaited my fate. The ruffians, egged on by a countess and a
     baroness, had stones, sticks, axes, and firearms, all to
     frighten and kill one poor inoffensive woman! They
     positively clamoured for my blood.

     I must tell you that all my faithful and devoted servants,
     with some others of my real friends, were in the house with
     me. I begged them to leave by the garden, but they said,
     poor fellows, they would die for me.

     ... Seeing the eminent danger of my friends, and not
     thinking of myself, I ordered my carriage while the
     blackguards were endeavouring to break down the gates. My
     good George, the coachman, helped me to rush through the
     door and we set off at a furious gallop. Many pistol shots
     were fired at me, but I was in God's care and avoided the
     bullets.

     My escape was most miraculous. At a distance of two hours
     from Munich I left my carriage and in Bluthenberg sought the
     protection of a brave honest man, by whom I was given
     shelter. Presently, some officers galloped up and demanded
     me. My benefactor declared I was not there, and his
     daughters said my carriage had passed. When they were gone,
     his good wife helped me to dress as a peasant girl, and I
     rushed out of the house, across fields, ditches, and
     forests. Being so well disguised, I resolved to return to
     Munich. It was a dreadful spectacle. The Palace blockaded;
     buildings plundered; and anarchy in all directions. Seeing
     nothing but death if I stopped there, I left for Lindeau,
     from whence I am writing to you.

     ... Count Arco Valley has been distributing money like dirt
     to all classes, and the priests have stirred up the mob.
     Nobody is safe in Munich. The good, noble King has told
     everyone he will never leave me. Of that he is quite
     determined. The game is not up. I shall, till death, stick
     to the King; but God knows what will happen next.

     I forgot to tell you that my enemies have announced in the
     German papers that the students are my lovers! They could
     not credit them with the loyal devotion they have ever had
     for the King and myself.

     MARIE DE LANDSFELD.

Writing in his diary on March 14, 1848, Frederick Cavendish, a budding diplomatist, whom Palmerston
had appointed as attaché at Vienna, remarks:

     "There has been the devil of a disturbance in Munich; and
     the King's mistress, Lola Montez, has been forced to fly for
     her life. She has been the curse of Bavaria, yet the King is
     still infatuated with her."

Scarcely diplomatic language. Still, not far from the truth.

A rigorous press censorship was exercised. The Munich papers had to print what they were told,
and nothing else. As a result, an inspired article appeared in the Allegemeine Zeitung, of
Augsburg, declaring that the Ultramontanes were responsible for the émeute. "Herr von Abel,"
in the opinion of a colleague, Heinrich von Treitsche, "took advantage of the opportunity to
espouse a sudden championship of morals, and made les convenances an excuse for resigning what
had long been to him a dangerous office."

Döllinger himself always declared that he became an Ultramontane against his will, and that
he only joined the Ministry at the earnest request of von Abel. This was probably true enough,
for he was much happier among his books than among the politicians. With his nose decidedly
out of joint, he relieved his feelings in a lengthy epistle to his friend, Madame Rio. Years
afterwards this letter came into the hands of Dom Gougaud, O.S.B., who published it in the
Irish Ecclesiastical Record. Among the more important passages were the following:

     Since you left M[unich] the impudence of L[ola] M[ontez] and
     the infatuation of her admirers have been constantly
     increasing. Our Members of Parliament, which have been
     convocated to an extraordinary session on account of a
     railway loan, did not dare, or did not deem it expedient, to
     interfere. The only thing that was done, but without
     producing any effect in high quarters, was that the Chamber
     of Deputies unanimously voted a protestation against the
     deposition of the professors. Then came the change of
     Ministers. Prince Wallerstein, who is a sort of Bavarian
     Thiers, selfish and unprincipled, only bent upon maintaining
     himself in the possession of the portefeuille, which is
     the glorious end that in his estimation sanctifies the
     means--this man of unscrupulous memory came in again,
     together with an obscure individual, a mere creature of
     L[ola] M[ontez], M. Berks.

     ... Meanwhile the crisis was brought about by the students
     of the University. L[ola] M[ontez] had succeeded in seducing
     a few of these, who, finding themselves immediately shunned
     and rejected by their fellow-students, formed a separate
     society or club, calling itself Alemannia, which from its
     beginning was publicly understood to be distinguished by
     the King's special favour and protection. In the course of
     two or three months they rose to the number of nineteen or
     twenty, easily recognised by the red caps and ribbons they
     wore. For L[ola] M[ontez] they formed a sort of male harem,
     and the particulars which have since transpired, and which,
     of course, I must not pollute your ears with, leave no doubt
     that she is a second Messalina.

     The indignation of the students, who felt all this as a
     degradation of the University and an affront cast upon their
     character, was general. The Alemanni were treated as
     outcasts, whose very presence was pollution.

     ... L[ola] M[ontez] had already been heard threatening that
     if the students continued to show themselves hostile to her
     favourites she would have the University closed. At last, on
     the 10th February, a royal mandate came forth, declaring the
     University to be suspended for the entire year.

     Next morning it was evident that a decisive crisis was
     coming on; the students paraded in procession through the
     streets, when, suddenly, the gendarmerie, commanded by one
     of L. M.'s favourites, made an attack upon them and wounded
     two of them. This, of course, served only to kindle the
     flames of general indignation. The citizens threatened to
     appear in arms, and the people made preparations for
     storming the house of L[ola] M[ontez].

     Towards 8 o'clock in the morning of the 11th, the appalling
     intelligence was communicated to the K[ing] that L. M.'s
     life was in imminent danger. Meanwhile several members of
     the royal family had tried to make an impression on the K.'s
     mind. When his own tools, who, up to that moment, had been
     pushing him on, told him that L.'s life was in jeopardy, and
     that the regiments refused to fight, he began to yield. But
     even then his behaviour left no doubt that the personal
     safety of L[ola] M[ontez] was his paramount motive. He
     himself ran to her house, which the mob had begun to pluck
     down; regardless of all royal dignity, he exposed his person
     to all the humiliation which the intercourse with an
     infuriated mob might subject him to.... Certainly, that day
     was the most disgraceful royalty has yet had in Bavaria.

     ... You will find it natural that the first announcement of
     L.M.'s forced departure begot universal exultation. In the
     streets one met only smiling countenances; new hopes were
     kindled. People wished, and therefore believed, that the
     K[ing] having at last become aware of the true state of the
     nation's mind, had made a noble sacrifice. A few days were
     sufficient to undeceive them. The K.'s mind was in a sort of
     fearful excitement, alternating between fits of depression
     and thoughts of vengeance.... It is impossible to foresee
     what things will lead to, and where the persecution is to
     stop. The opinion gains credit that his intention is to
     bring L[ola] M[ontez] back. Evidently he is acting, not only
     from a thirst for vengeance, but also under the fatal
     influence of an irresistible and sinister passion for that
     woman.

A few days later, Ludwig, to test public opinion, went to the Opera.

"I have lost my taste for spectacles," he said to his companion, "but I wish to see if I am
still King in the hearts of the people I have served."

He was not long in doubt, for the moment he entered his box the audience stood up and cheered
him vigorously. This was enough; and, without waiting for the curtain to rise, he returned
to the Palace.

"After all, my subjects still trust me," he said. "I was sure of them."

III

There was another display of loyalty elsewhere. The Munich garrison, under Ludwig's second
son, Prince Luitpold, took a fresh oath en masse, swearing fidelity to the new constitution.
It was, however, a little late in the day. Things had gone too far; and Lola, who had merely
gone a few leagues from the capital, had not gone far enough. That was the trouble. She was
still able to pull strings, and to make her influence felt in various directions. Nor would
she show the white feather or succumb to the threats of rowdies.

It was from Lindeau that, disguised as a boy (then a somewhat more difficult job than now),
Lola, greatly daring, ventured back to the arms of Ludwig. But she only stopped with him a
couple of hours, for she had been followed, and was still being hunted by the rabble of the
town. Before, however, resuming her journey, she endeavoured to get into touch with her faithful
Alemannia. "I beg you," she wrote to the proprietor of the café they frequented, "to tell me
where Herr Peissner has gone." The landlord, fearing reprisals, withheld the knowledge. If
he had given it, he would probably have had his premises wrecked. Safety first!

In this juncture, Ludwig, acting like a mental deficient, announced that there was only one
adequate explanation for Lola's conduct. This was that she was "possessed of an evil spirit"
which had to be exorcised before things should get worse. Lending a ready ear to every quack
in Bavaria, he sent her under escort to Weinsberg, to the clinic of a Dr. Justinus Kerner,
who had established himself there as a mesmerist.

"You are to drive the devil out of her," were the instructions given him.

Fearing that his spells and incantations might, after all, not prove effective, and thus convict
him for a charlatan, the man of science felt uneasy. Still, an order was an order, especially
when it came from a King, and he promised to do his best. On the day that his patient arrived,
he wrote to his married daughter, Emma Niendorf. A free translation of this letter, which is
given in full by Dr. von Tim Klein (in his Der Vorkamfdeutscher Einheit und Freiheit), would read:

     Yesterday there arrived here Lola Montez; and, until further
     instructions come from Munich, I am detaining her in my
     tower, where guard is being kept by three of the
     Alemannia. That the King should have selected me of all
     people to send her to is most annoying. But he was assured
     that she was possessed of a devil, and that the devil in her
     could be driven out by me at Weinsberg. Still, the case is
     one of interest.

     As a preliminary to my magneto-magic treatment, I am
     beginning by subjecting her to a fasting-cure. This means
     that every day all she is to have is a quarter of a wafer
     and thirteen drops of raspberry juice.

"Sage es aber niemanden! Verbrenne diesen Brief!" ("But don't tell anybody about it; burn this
letter") was the exorcist's final injunction.

To live up to his reputation for wonder-working, the mystic had an Æolian harp in each of the
windows of his house, so arranged that Ariel-like voices would float through the summer breezes.

"It is magic," said the peasants, crossing themselves devoutly when they heard the sound.

But the harp-obligato proved no more effective than the reduced dieting and early attempt to
popularise slimming. After a couple of days, accordingly, the regime was varied by the substitution
of asses' milk for the raspberry juice. Much to his annoyance, however, the specialist had
to report to another correspondent, Sophie Schwab, that his patient was not deriving any real
benefit, and that the troublesome "devil" had not been dislodged.

As was to be expected, Lola, having a healthy appetite and objecting to short rations, gave
the mesmerist the slip and hurried back to her Ludwig. After a few words with him, she left
for Stahrenberg.

Ludwig sat down and wrote another "poem." Appropriately enough, this was entitled "Lamentation."

CHAPTER XI

A FALLEN STAR

I

Even with Lola Montez out of the way and the University doors re-opened, it was not a case
of all quiet on the Munich front. Far from it. Berks, the new Minister of the Interior, who
had always supported her, still remained in office; and Lola herself continued from a distance
to pull strings. Some of them were effective.

But Lola Montez, or no Lola Montez, there was in the eyes of his exasperated subjects more
than enough to make them thoroughly dissatisfied with the Wittelsbach regime, as carried out
by Ludwig. The Cabinet had become very nearly inarticulate; public funds had been squandered
on all sorts of grandiose and unnecessary schemes; and the clerical element had long been allowed
to ride roughshod over the constitution. Altogether, the "Ministry of Dawn," brought into existence
with such a flourish of trumpets after the dismissal of von Abel and his colleagues, had not
proved the anticipated success. Instead of getting better, things had got worse; and, although
it had not actually been suggested, the idea of substituting the monarchy by a republic was
being discussed in many quarters.

The editor of the Annual Register, abandoning his customary attitude of an impartial historian,
dealt out a sharp rap on the knuckles to the Royal Troubadour:

"The discreditable conduct of the doting old King of Bavaria, in his open liaison with a wandering
actress who had assumed the name of Lola Montez (but who was in reality the eloped wife of
an Englishman, and whom he had created a Bavarian Countess by the title of Gräfin de Landsfeld),
had thoroughly alienated the hearts of his subjects."

As the result of a solemn conclave at the Rathaus, an ultimatum was delivered by the Cabinet;
and Ludwig was informed, without any beating about the bush, that unless he wanted to plunge
the country into revolution, Lola Montez must leave the kingdom. Ludwig yielded; and forgetful
of, or else deliberately ignoring, the fact that he had once written a passionate threnody,
in which he declared:

    "And though thou be forsaken by all the world,
    Yet, never wilt thou be abandoned by me!"

he could find it in his heart to issue a decree expelling her from his realms.

To this end, on March 17, he signed two separate Orders in Council.

      1

     "We, Ludwig, by the Grace of God, King of Bavaria, etc.,
     think it necessary to give notice that the Countess of
     Landsfeld has ceased to possess the rights of
     naturalisation."

      2

     "Since the Countess of Landsfeld does not give up her design
     of disturbing the peace of the capital and country, all the
     judicial authorities of the kingdom are hereby ordered to
     arrest the said Countess wherever she may be discovered.
     They are to carry her to the nearest fortress, where she is
     to be kept in custody."

Events moved rapidly. A few days later Lola was arrested by Prince Wallerstein (whom she herself
had put into power when his stock had fallen) and deported, as an "undesirable alien," to Switzerland.

Woman-like, she had the last word.

"I am leaving Bavaria," she said, "but, before very long, your King will also leave."

Everybody had something to say about the business. Most people had a lot to say. The wires
hummed; and the foreign correspondents in Munich filled columns with long accounts of the recent
disturbances in Munich and their origin. No two accounts were similar.

"The people insisted," says Edward Cayley, in his European Revolutions of 1848, "on the dismissal
of the King's mistress. She was sent away, but, trusting to the King's dotage, she came back,
police or no police.... This was a climax to which the people were unprepared to submit, not
that they were any more virtuous than their Sovereign." Another publicist, Edward Maurice,
puts it a little differently: "In Bavaria the power exercised by Lola Montez over Ludwig had
long been distasteful to the sterner reformers." This was true enough; but the Müncheners disliked
the Jesuits still more, asserting that it was with them that Lola shared the conscience of
the King. The Liberals were ready for action, and welcomed the opportunity of asserting themselves.

As soon as Lola was really out of the country, her Barerstrasse mansion was searched from attic
to cellar by the Munich police. Since, in order to justify the search, they had to discover
something compromising, they announced that they had discovered "proofs" that Lord Palmerston
and Mazzini were in active correspondence with the King's ex-mistress; and that the go-between
for the British Foreign Office was a Jew called Loeb. This individual was an artist who had
been employed to decorate the house. Seized with pangs of remorse, he is said to have gone
to Ludwig and confessed having intercepted Lola's correspondence with Mazzini and engineered
the rioting. He further declared that large sums of money had been sent her from abroad. Historians,
however, have no knowledge of this; nor was the nature of the "proofs" ever revealed.

Lola's villa in the Barerstrasse afterwards became the new home of the British Legation. It
was demolished in 1914; and not even a wall plaque now marks her one-time occupancy. As for
the Residenz Palace where she dallied with Ludwig, this building is now a museum, and as such
echoes to the tramp of tourists and the snapping of cameras. Sic transit, etc.

II

When Lola, hunted from pillar to post, eventually left Munich for Switzerland, it was in the
company of Auguste Papon, who, on the grounds of "moral turpitude," had already been given
his marching-orders. He described himself as a "courier." His passport, however, bore the less
exalted description of "cook." It was probably the more correct one. The faithful Fritz Peissner,
anxious to be of service to the woman he loved, and for whom he had already risked his life,
joined her at Constance, together with two other members of the Alemannia, Count Hirschberg
and Lieutenant Nussbaum. But they only stopped a few days.

Anxious to get into touch with them, Lola wrote to the landlord at their last address:

     2 March, 1848.

     SIR,

     In case the students of the Alemannia Society have left your
     hotel, I beg you to inform my servant, the bearer of this
     letter, where Monsieur Peissner, for whom he has a parcel to
     deliver, has gone.

     Receive in advance my distinguished sentiments.

     COUNTESS OF LANDSFELD.

Lola's first halt in Switzerland (a country she described as "that little Republic which, like
a majestic eagle, lies in the midst of the vultures and cormorants of Europe") was at Geneva.
An error of judgment, for the austere citizens of Calvin's town, setting a somewhat lofty standard
among visitors, were impervious to her blandishments. "They were," she complained, "as chilly
as their own icicles." At Berne, however, to which she went next, she had better luck. This
was because she met there an impressionable young Chargé d'affaires attached to the British
Legation, whom she found "somewhat younger than Ludwig, but more than twice as silly." An entente
was soon established. "Sometimes riding, and sometimes driving she would appear in public,
accompanied by her youthful adorer."

The official was Robert Peel, a son of the distinguished statesman, and was afterwards to become
third baronet. In a curious little work, typical of the period, The Black Book of the British
Aristocracy, there is an acid allusion to the matter: "This bright youth has just taken under
his protection the notorious Lola Montez, and was lately to be observed walking with her, in
true diplomatic style, in the streets of a Swiss town."

It was about this period that it occurred to a theatrical manager in London, looking for a
novelty, that there was material for a stirring drama written round the career of Lola Montez.
No sooner said than done; and a hack dramatist, who was kept on the premises, was commissioned
to set to work. Locked up in his garret with a bottle of brandy, at the end of a week he delivered
the script. This being approved by the management, it was put into rehearsal, and the hoardings
plastered with bills:

+---------------------------------------------------------------+ |                  THEATRE
ROYAL, HAYMARKET                     | |                                                  
| |    (Under the Patronage of Her Gracious Majesty The Queen,    | |  His Royal Highness Prince
Albert, and the Élite of Rank and  | |  Fashion.) On Wednesday, April 26, 1848, will be produced
a   | |  New and Original and Apropos Sketch entitled:                | |                 
| |          "LOLA MONTEZ, or THE COUNTESS FOR AN HOUR."          | +---------------------------------------------------------------+

"An hour." This was about as long as it lasted, for the reception by the critics was distinctly
chilly. "We cannot," announced one of them, "applaud the motives that governed the production
of a farce introducing a mock sovereign and his mistress. In our opinion the piece is extremely
objectionable."

The Lord Chamberlain apparently shared this view, for he had the play withdrawn after the second
performance.

"Es gibt kein Zurück" ("There is to be no coming back") had been Ludwig's last words to her.
But Lola did not take the injunction seriously. According to a letter in the Deutsche Zeitung,
she was back in Munich within a week, travelling under the "protection" of Baron Möller, a
Russian diplomatist. Entering the Palace surreptitiously, she extracted a cheque for 50,000
florins from Ludwig. As it was drawn on Rothschild's bank at Frankfort, she hurried off there,
and returned to Switzerland the same evening, "with a bagful of notes."

To convince his readers that he was well behind the scenes, Papon gives a letter which he asserts
was written by Ludwig to a correspondent some months later:

     I wish to know from you if my dear Countess would like her
     annuity assured by having it paid into a private bank, or if
     she would rather I deposited a million francs with the Bank
     of England.... I am already being blamed for giving her too
     much. As the revolutionaries seize upon any pretext to
     assert themselves, it is important to avoid directing
     attention to her just now. Still, I want my dearly loved
     Countess to be satisfied. I repeat that the whole world
     cannot part me from her.

While he was with her in Switzerland, Papon strung together a pamphlet: Lola Montez, Mémoires
accompagnés de lettres intimes de S.M. le Roi de Bavière et de Lola Montez, ornés des portraits,
sur originaux donnés par eux à l'auteur, purporting to be written by their subject. "I owe
my readers," he makes her say smugly, "the exact truth. They must judge between my enemies
and myself." But, in his character of a Peeping Tom, very little truth was expended by Papon.
Thus, he declares that, during her sojourn in the land of the mountains and William Tell, she
had a series of affaires with a "baron," a "muscular artisan," and an "intrepid sailor." He
also has a story to the effect that "two pure-blooded English ladies, the bearers of illustrious
names," called on her uninvited; and that this circumstance annoyed her so much that she made
her pet monkey attack them.

But Auguste Papon cannot be considered a very reliable authority. A decidedly odd fish, he
claimed to be an ex-officer and also dubbed himself a marquis. For all his pretensions, however,
he was merely a chevalier d'industrie, living on his wits; and, masquerading as a priest, he
was afterwards convicted of swindling and sent to prison.

III

A doughty, but anonymous, champion jumped into the breach and issued a counterblast to Papon's
effort in the shape of a second pamphlet, headed "A Reply." But this was not any more remarkable
for its accuracy than the original. Thus, it declares, "She [Lola] lived with the King of Bavaria,
a man of eighty-seven. The nature of that intimacy can best be surmised by reading the second
and third verses of the First Book of Kings, Chapter i. It is evident to any reflecting mind
that it was a sort of King David arrangement." As for the rest of the pamphlet, it was chiefly
taken up with an elaborate argument that, all said and done, its subject was no worse than
other ladies, and much better than many of them.

Among extracts from this well intentioned effort, the following are the more important:

     A certain Marquis Auguste Papon, a quondam panderer to the
     natural desires and affections which are common to the whole
     human race, published and circulated throughout Europe a
     volume which stamps his own infamy (as we shall have
     occasion to show in the course of this reply) in far more
     ineffaceable characters than that of those whom, in his
     vindictiveness, he gloatingly sought to destroy.

     But, before we proceed to dissect his book, it may be
     permitted us to ask the impartial reader what there is so
     very remarkable in the conduct of the King of Bavaria and
     Lola Montez as to distinguish them unfavourably from the
     monarchs and women celebrated for their talent, originality,
     and beauty who have gone before. Where are Henry IV of
     France, Henry V, Louis XIV, and Louis XV, with their
     respective mistresses? Who of their people ever presumed to
     interfere on the score of morality with the favours and
     honours conferred on those distinguished women? Nay, to come
     down to a later period, has the Marquis Auguste Papon ever
     heard of the loves of Louis XVIII and Madame de Cuyla, and
     that after the monarch's restoration in 1814? Is he ignorant
     of those of Napoleon himself and Mademoiselle Georges? Have
     not almost all the royal family of England--even those of
     the House of Hanover--been notorious for their connection
     with celebrated women? Has he never heard of Mrs.
     Walkinshaw, ostensible mistress of Charles Edward the
     Pretender, of Lucy Barlow, mistress of Charles II, mother of
     the Duke of Monmouth? Of Arabella Churchill and Katherine
     Sedley, mistresses of James II? Of the Countess of Kendal,
     mistress of George II, who was received everywhere in
     English society? Or of George IV and the Marchioness of
     C----? Of the Duke of York and Mary Anne Clark? Of the Duke
     of Clarence and the amiable and respected Mrs. J----? And
     last, not least, of the present King of Hanover and late
     Duke of Cumberland, who labours even unto this hour under
     suspicion of having murdered his valet Sellis, to conceal
     his adultery with his wife? In what differs the King of
     Bavaria from these?

     But even to descend lower into the social scale of those who
     have occupied the attention of the world without incurring
     its marked and impertinent censure, has the Marquis Auguste
     Papon ever heard of the beautiful Miss Foote, who, first the
     favourite of the celebrated Colonel Berkeley (a natural
     brother of the Duke of Devonshire) and secondly of a
     personal friend of the writer of this reply--the
     celebrated Pea Green Hayne--became finally the charming and
     amiable Countess of Harrington, one of the sweetest women
     that ever were placed at the head of the Stanhope family or
     graced a peerage?

     Who, that ever once enjoyed the pleasure of knowing this
     fairest flower in the parterre of England's aristocracy of
     beauty, would, in a spirit of revenge and disappointed
     avarice, have had the grossness to insult her as the
     Marquis of Papon--the depository of all her secrets--has
     insulted the Countess of Landsfeld with the loathsome name
     of "courtesan," because, yielding to the confidence of her
     woman's heart, she had been the adored of two previous
     lovers? Never did Lord Petersham, afterwards the Earl of
     Harrington, take a more sensible course than when he
     elevated in a holy and irreproachable love--a love that
     strangled scandal in its bloated fullness--the fascinating
     Maria Foote to the position she was made to adorn, being
     twin sister in beauty as well as in law to the charming Miss
     Green, whose ripe red lips and long dark-lashed blue and
     laughing eyes were, before her marriage with Colonel
     Stanhope, the admiration and subject of homage of all
     London. Should her eye ever rest on this page, she will
     perceive that we have not forgotten its power and
     expression.

     To descend still lower in the scale of social life, has the
     Marquis Auguste Papon ever heard of the celebrated Madame
     Vestris, now Mrs. Mathews? Is he ignorant that her
     theatre--the Olympic--was ever a resort of the most
     fashionable and aristocratic people of London? Did her moral
     life in any way detract from her popularity as a woman of
     talent and of beauty, and an artiste of exceeding
     fascination and merit? And yet she had more lovers than the
     Marquis Auguste Papon can, with all his ingenuity, raise up
     in evidence against the remarkable woman he, in his not very
     creditable spirit of vengeance, has sworn to destroy.

     Let us enumerate those we know to have been the lovers of
     Madame Vestris, who, after having passed her youth in all
     the variety of enjoyment, at length became the wife of a
     man, not without talent himself, and whose father stood
     first among the names celebrated in the comic art.

     First was a personal friend of the writer of this reply to
     the unmanly attack of the Marquis Auguste Papon. And we have
     reason to remember it, for the connection of Henry Cole with
     the most fascinating woman of her day led to a duel in Hyde
     Park, of which that lady was the immediate cause, between
     the writer and a British officer who was so ungallant as to
     seek to check the enthusiasm created by her scarcely
     paralleled acting. To him succeeded Sir John Anstruther, and
     after Sir John the celebrated Horace Claggett. In what order
     their successors came we do not recollect, but of those who
     knew Madame Vestris in all the intimacy of the most tender
     friendship were Handsome Jack, Captain Best, Lord Edward
     Thynne, and Lord Castlereagh. These things were no secrets
     to the thousands who, fascinated by her beauty and the
     perfection of her acting, nevertheless thronged the theatre
     she was admitted to have conducted with the most amiable
     propriety and skill. On the contrary, they were as much
     matters of general knowledge among people of the first rank
     and fashion as the sun at noon-day. And yet what gentleman
     ever presumed to affix to the name of this gifted woman,
     whose very disregard of the opinion of those who
     hypocritically and sub rosa pursued in nearly ninety-nine
     cases out of a hundred the same course--what gentleman, we
     ask, ever dared to commit himself so far as to term her a
     "courtesan"?

There was a good deal more of it, for the "Reply" ran to seventy-six pages.

The title-page of this counterblast ran:

LOLA MONTEZ

or

A REPLY TO THE "PRIVATE HISTORY AND MEMOIRS"

of

THAT CELEBRATED LADY

RECENTLY PUBLISHED

By

THE MARQUIS PAPON

FORMERLY SECRETARY TO THE KING OF BAVARIA AND FOR A PERIOD THE PROFESSED FRIEND AND ATTENDANT
of THE COUNTESS OF LANDSFELD

Stet Nomnis Umbra--Junius

NEW YORK

1851

IV

Bavaria was the key position in the sphere of European politics just then. Ludwig, however,
had dallied with the situation too long. Nothing that he could do now would save him. Unrest
was in the air. All over Europe the tide of democracy was rising, and fast threatening to engulf
the entrenched positions of the autocrats. Metternich, reading the portents, was planning to
leave a mob-ridden Vienna for the more tranquil atmosphere of Brighton; Louis Philippe, setting
him an example, had already fled from Paris; and Prince William of Prussia, shaving off his
moustache (and travelling on a false passport), was hurrying to England while the going was
still good. With these examples to guide them, the Bavarians, tired of soft promises and smooth
words, were clamouring for a fresh hand at the helm. Realising that the choice lay between
this and a republic, Ludwig bowed to the inevitable; and, with crocodile tears and hypocritical
protestations of good faith, surrendered his sceptre. To give the decision full effect, he
issued a Proclamation:

     "Bavarians! A new condition has arisen. This differs
     substantially from the one under which I have governed you
     for twenty-three years. Accordingly, I lay down my sceptre
     in favour of my beloved son, Prince Maximilian. I have
     always governed you with full regard for your welfare. Had I
     been a mere clerk, I could not have worked more strenuously;
     had I been a Minister of Finance, I could not have devoted
     more attention to the requirements of my country. I thank
     God that I can look the whole world fearlessly in the face
     and there confront the most scrutinising eye. Although I now
     relinquish my crown, I can assure you that my heart still
     beats as warmly as ever for Bavaria.

     "MUNICH,

     March 21, 1848."

Ludwig's signature to this mixture of rigmarole and bombast was followed by those of his sons,
the Princes Maximilian Luitpold, Adalbert, and Carl. As for Maximilian, the new sovereign,
he, rather than risk being thrown out of the saddle, was prepared to make a clean sweep of
a number of existing grievances. As an earnest of his intentions, he promised, in the course
of a frothy oration, to grant an amnesty to political prisoners, liberty of the press, the
abolition of certain taxes, the institution of trial by jury, and a long delayed reform of
the franchise.

With the idea, no doubt, of filling the vacancy in his affections caused by the abrupt departure
of Lola Montez, Fräulein Schroder, a young actress at the Hof Theatre, endeavoured to comfort
Ludwig in his retirement. He, however, was beyond forming any fresh contacts.

"My happiness is gone from me," he murmured sadly. "I cannot stop in a capital to which I have
long given a father's loving care."

Firm in this resolve, he left Munich for the Riviera and took a villa among the olives and
oranges of Nice. There he turned over a fresh leaf. But he did not stop writing poetry. Nor
did he stop writing to the woman who was still in his thoughts. One ardent epistle that followed
her into exile ran in this fashion:

     Oh, my Lolita! A ray of sunshine at the break of day! A
     stream of light in an obscured sky! Hope ever causes chords
     long forgotten to resound, and existence becomes once again
     pleasant as of yore. Such were the feelings which animated
     me during that night of happiness when, thanks to you alone,
     everything was sheer joy. Thy spirit lifted up mine out of
     sadness; never did an intoxication equal the one I then
     felt!

     Thou hast lost thy gaiety; persecution has stripped you of
     it; and has robbed you of your health. The happiness of your
     life is already disturbed. But now, and more solidly than
     ever, are you attached to me. Nobody will ever be able to
     separate us. You have suffered because you love me.

When accounts of what was happening in Bavaria reached England a well pickled rod was applied
to Lola's back:

"The sanguinary and destructive conduct of the Munich mob," began a furious leading article,
"was caused by the supposed return of Bavaria's famous strumpet, Lola Montez. This heroine
was once familiar to the eyes of all Paris, and notorious as a courtesan. When she was invested
with a title, the Bavarians shuddered at their degradation. It was nothing less than an outrage
on the part of royalty, never to be forgotten or forgiven."

The columns of Maga also wielded the rod in vigorous fashion:

     "The late King, one of the most accomplished of dilettanti,
     worst of poets, and silliest of men, had latterly put the
     coping-stone to a life of folly by engaging in a most
     bare-faced intrigue with the notorious Lola Montez. The
     indecency and infatuation of this last liaison--far more
     openly conducted than any of his former numerous amours--had
     given intense umbrage to the nobility whom he had insulted
     by elevating the ci-devant opera-dancer to their ranks."

Yet, with all his faults heavy upon him, Ludwig, none the less, had his points. Thus, in addition
to converting Munich from a second-rate town to a really important capital, he did much to
encourage the development of art and letters and science and education throughout his kingdom.
Ignaz Döllinger, the theologian, Joseph Görres, the historian, Jean Paul Richter, the poet,
Franz Schwanthaler, the sculptor, and Wilhelm Thirsch, the philosopher, with Richard Wagner
and a host of others basked in his patronage. When he died, twenty years later, these facts
were remembered and his little slips forgotten. The Müncheners gave him burial in the Basilica;
and an equestrian statue, bearing the inscription, "Just and Persevering," was set up in the
Odeon-Platz.

It is the fashion among certain historians to charge Lola Montez with responsibility for the
revolution in Bavaria. But this charge is not justified. The fact is, the kingdom was ripe
for revolution; and the equilibrium of the government was so unstable that Ludwig would have
lost his crown, whether she was in the country or not.

It is just as well to remember this.

V

After a few months among them, Lola, tiring of the Swiss cantons, thought she might as well
discover if England, which she had not visited for six years, could offer any fresh attractions.
Accordingly, resolved to make the experiment, on December 30, 1848, she arrived in London.

The Satirist, hearing the news, suggested that the managers of Drury Lane and Covent Garden
should engage her as a "draw." But she did not stop in England very long, as she returned to
the Continent almost at once.

In the following spring, she made a second journey to London, and sailed from Rotterdam. Unknown
to her, the passenger list was to have included another fallen star. This was Metternich, who,
with the riff-raff of Vienna thundering at the doors of his palace, was preparing to seek sanctuary
in England. Thinking, however, that the times were not altogether propitious, he decided to
postpone the expedition.

"If," he wrote, "the Chartist troubles had not prevented me embarking yesterday at Rotterdam,
I should have reached London this morning in the company of the Countess of Landsfeld. She
sailed by the steamer in which I was to have travelled. I thank heaven for having preserved
me from such contact!"

All things considered, it is perhaps just as well that the two refugees did not cross the Channel
together. Had they done so, it is probable that one of them would have found a watery grave.

Metternich had worsted Napoleon, but he found himself worsted by Lola Montez. On April 9, he
wrote from The Hague:

     "I have put off my departure for England, because I wished
     to know first what was happening in that country as a result
     of the Chartists' disturbance. I consider that, for me who
     must have absolute rest, it would have been ridiculous to
     have arrived in the middle of the agitation."

Louis Napoleon, however, was made of sterner stuff; and it is to his credit that, as a return
for the hospitality extended him, he was sworn in as a special constable.

CHAPTER XII

A "LEFT-HANDED" MARRIAGE

I

On arriving in London, and (thanks to the bounty of Ludwig) being well provided with funds,
Lola took a house in Half Moon Street, Piccadilly. There she established something of a salon,
where she gave a series of evening receptions. They were not, perhaps, up to the old Barerstrasse
standard; still, they brought together a number of the less important "lions," all of whom
were only too pleased to accept invitations.

Among the hangers-on was Frederick Leveson-Gower, a son of Earl Granville. He had met the great
Rachel in Paris and was ecstatic about her. "Not long after," he says, "I got to know another
much less gifted individual, but who having captivated a King, upset two Ministries, and brought
about a revolution in Bavaria, was entitled to be looked upon as celebrated. This was Lola Montez."

In his character of what is still oddly dubbed a "man-about-town," Serjeant Ballantine was
also among those who attended these Half Moon Street gatherings. "His hostess," he says, "had
certain claims to celebrity. She was, I believe, of Spanish origin, and certainly possessed
that country's style of beauty, with much dash of manner and an extremely outré fashion of
dress." Another occasional visitor was George Augustus Sala, a mid-Victorian journalist who
was responsible for printing more slipshod inaccuracies than any two members of his craft put
together. He says that he once contemplated writing Lola's memoirs. He did not, however, get
beyond "contemplating." This, perhaps, was just as well, since he was so ill-equipped for the
task that he imagined she was a sister of Adah Isaacs Menken.

"About this time," he says, "I made the acquaintance, at a little cigar shop under the pillars
in Norreys Street, Regent Street, of an extremely handsome lady, originally the wife of a solicitor,
but who had been known in London and Paris as a ballet-dancer under the name of Lola Montez.
When I knew her, she had just escaped from Munich, where she had been too notorious as Countess
of Landsfeld. She had obtained for a time complete mastery over old King Ludwig of Bavaria;
and something like a revolution had been necessary to induce her to quit the Bavarian capital."

A ridiculous story spread that Lord Brougham (who had witnessed her ill-starred début in 1843)
wanted to marry her. The fact that there was already a Lady Brougham in existence did not curb
the tongues of the gossipers. "She refused the honourable Lord," says a French journalist,
"in a manner that redounded to her credit."

Journalists, anxious for "copy," haunted Half Moon Street all day long. They were never off
her doorstep. "Town gossip," declared one of them, "is in full swing; and the general public
are all agog to catch a glimpse of the latest 'lioness.' Lola Montez is on every lip and in
everybody's eye. She is causing an even bigger sensation than that inspired by the Swedish
Nightingale, Madame Jenny Lind."

Notwithstanding the ill-success of a former attempt to exploit her personality behind the footlights,
Mrs. Keeley produced a sketch at the Haymarket written "round" Lola Montez. This, slung together
by Stirling Coyne, was called: Pas de Fascination. The scene was laid in "Neverask-where";
and among the characters were "Prince Dunbrownski," "Count Muffenuff," and "General von Bolte."

It scarcely sounds rib-rending.

Mrs. Charles Kean, who attended the first performance, described Pas de Fascination as "the
most daring play I ever witnessed." Lola Montez herself took it in good part. She sat in a
box, "and, when the curtain fell, threw a magnificent bouquet at the principal actress." Coals
of fire.

Not to be behindhand in offering tit-bits of "news," an American correspondent informed his
readers that: "During the early part of 1849, Lola Montez, arrayed in the Royal Bavarian jewels,
crashed into one of the Court balls at Buckingham Palace. Needless to remark," he added, "the
audacity has not been repeated." From this, it would appear that the Lord Chamberlain had been
aroused from his temporary slumbers.

The Satirist had assured his readers "the public will soon be hearing more of Madame Montez."
They did. What they heard was something quite unexpected. This was that she had made a second
experiment in matrimony, and that her choice had fallen on a Mr. George Heald, a callow lad
of twenty, for whom a commission as Cornet in the Life Guards had been purchased by his family.

II

The precise reasons actuating Lola in adopting this step were not divulged. Several, however,
suggested themselves. Perhaps she was attracted by the Cornet's glittering cuirass and plumed
helmet; perhaps by his substantial income; and perhaps she tired of being a homeless wanderer,
and felt that here at last was a prospect of settling down and experimenting with domesticity.

When the announcement appeared in print there was much fluttering among the Mayfair dovecotes.
As the bridegroom had an income of approximately £10,000 a year, the débutantes--chagrined
to discover that such an "eligible" had been snatched from their grasp--felt inclined to call
an indignation meeting.

"Preposterous," they said, "that such a woman should have snapped him up! Something ought to
be done about it."

But, for the moment, nothing was "done about it," and the knot was tied on July 14. Lola saw
that the knot should be a double one; and the ceremony took place, first, at the French Catholic
Chapel in King Street, and afterwards at St. George's, Hanover Square.

A press representative, happening to be among the congregation, rushed off to Grub Street.
There he was rewarded with a welcome five shillings by his editor, who, in high glee at securing
such a piece of news before any other journal, had a characteristic paragraph on the subject:

     Lola Montez, Countess of Landsfeld, the ex-danseuse and
     ex-favourite of the imbecile old King of Bavaria, is, we are
     able to inform our readers, at last married legitimately.
     On dit that her young husband, Mr. George Trafford Heald,
     has been dragged into the match somewhat hurriedly. It will
     be curious to mark the progress of the Countess in this
     novel position. A sudden change from a career of furious
     excitement to one in which prudence and a regard for the
     rules of good society are the very opposite to those
     observed by loose foreigners must prove a trial to her.
     Whipping commissaries of police, and setting ferocious dogs
     at inoffensive civilians, may do very well for Munich. In
     England, however, we are scarcely prepared for these
     activities, even if they be deemed the privilege of a
     countess.

Disraeli, who had a hearty appetite for all the tit-bits of gossip discussed in Mayfair drawing-rooms,
heard of the match and mentioned it in a letter to his sister, Sarah:

     July, 1849.

     The Lola Montez marriage makes a sensation. I believe he
     [Heald] has only £3,000 per annum, not £13,000. It was an
     affair of a few days. She sent to ask the refusal of his
     dog, which she understood was for sale--of course it wasn't,
     being very beautiful. But he sent it as a present. She
     rejoined; he called; and they were married in a week. He is
     only twenty-one, and wished to be distinguished. Their
     dinner invitations are already out, I am told. She quite
     convinced him previously that she was not Mrs. James; and,
     as for the King of Bavaria, who, by the by, allows her £1500
     a year, and to whom she writes every day--that was only a
     malheureuse passion.

Apropos of this union, a popular riddle went the round of the clubs: "Why does a certain young
officer of the Life Guards resemble a much mended pair of shoes?" The answer was, "Because
he has been heeled [Heald] and soled [sold]."

The honeymoon was spent at Berrymead Priory, a house that the bridegroom owned at Acton. This
was a substantial Gothic building, with several acres of well timbered ground and gardens.
Some distance, perhaps, from the Cornet's barracks. Still, one imagines he did not take his
military duties very seriously; and leave of absence "on urgent private affairs" was, no doubt,
granted in liberal fashion. Also, he possessed a phæton, in which, with a spanking chestnut
between the shafts, the miles would soon be covered.

The Priory had a history stretching back to the far off days of Henry III, when it belonged
to the Chapter of St. Paul's Cathedral. Henry VII, in high-handed fashion, presented it to
the Earl of Bedford; and a subsequent occupant was the notorious Elizabeth Chudleigh, the bigamous
spouse of the Duke of Kingston. Another light lady, Nancy Dawson, is also said to have lived
there as its châtelaine, under the "protection" of the Duke of Newcastle.

At the beginning of the last century the property was acquired by a Colonel Clutton. He was
followed by Edward Bulwer, afterwards Lord Lytton, who lived there on and off (chiefly off)
with his wife, until their separation in 1836. On one occasion he gave a dinner-party, among
the guests being John Forster, "to meet Miss Landon, Fontblanque, and Hayward." To the invitation
was added the warning, "We dine at half-past five, to allow time for return, and regret much
having no spare beds as yet." A spare bed, however, was available for Lord Beaconsfield, when
he dined there in the following year.

On the departure of Bulwer, the house had a succession of tenants; and for a short period it
even sheltered a bevy of Nuns of the Sacred Heart. It was when they left that the estate was
purchased by Mr. George Heald, a barrister with a flourishing practice. He left it to his booby
son, the Cornet: and it was thus that Lola Montez established her connection with Berrymead Priory.

While the original house still stands, the garden in which it stood has gone; and the building
itself now serves as the premises of the Acton Constitutional Club. But the committee have
been careful to preserve some evidence of Cornet Heald's occupancy. Thus, his crest and family
motto, Nemo sibi Nascitur, are let into the mosaic flooring of the hall, and the drawing-room
ceiling is embellished with his initials picked out in gold.

III

Prejudice, perhaps, but unions between the sons of Mars and the daughters of Terpsichore were
in those days frowned upon by the military big-wigs at the Horse Guards. Hence, it was not
long before an inspired note on the subject of this one appeared in the Standard:

     We learn from undoubted authority that, immediately on the
     marriage of Lieutenant Heald with the Countess of Landsfeld,
     the Marquess of Londonderry, Colonel of the 2nd Life Guards,
     took the most decisive steps to recommend to Her Majesty
     that this officer's resignation of his commission should be
     insisted on; and that he should at once leave the regiment,
     which this unfortunate and extraordinary act might possibly
     prejudice.

Her Majesty, having consulted the Prince Consort and the Duke of Wellington, shared this view.
Instead, however, of being summarily "gazetted out," the love-sick young warrior was permitted
to "send in his papers."

Thinking that he had acted precipitately in resigning, Cornet Heald (egged on, doubtless, by
Lola) endeavoured to get his resignation cancelled. The authorities, however, were adamant.
"Much curiosity," says a journalistic comment, "has been aroused among the Household Troops
by the efforts of this officer to regain his commission after having voluntarily relinquished
it. Notwithstanding his youth and the fact that he had given way to a sudden impulse, Lord
Londonderry was positively inflexible. Yet the influence and eloquence of a certain ex-Chancellor,
well known to the bride, was brought to bear on him."

The "certain ex-Chancellor" was none other than Lord Brougham.

Much criticism followed in other circles. Everybody had an opinion to advance. Most of them
were far from complimentary, and there were allusions by the dozen to "licentious soldiery"
and "gilded popinjays." The rigid editor of The Black Book of the British Aristocracy was particularly
indignant. "The Army," he declared, in a fierce outburst, "is the especial favourite of the
aristocratic section. Any brainless young puppy with a commission is free to lounge away his
time in dandyism and embryo moustaches at the public expense."

The Satirist, living up to its name, also had its customary sting:

     Of course, the gallant Colonel of the Household Troops could
     not do less. That distinguished corps is immaculate; and no
     breath of wind must come between it and its propriety. There
     is but one black sheep in the 2nd Life Guards, and that, in
     the eyes of the coal black colonel (him of the collieries),
     is the soft, enchanted, and enchained Mr. Heald. Poor Heald!
     Indignant Londonderry! How subservient, in truth, must be
     the lean subaltern to his fat colonel.

A Sunday organ followed suit. "What," it demanded, "may be the precise article of the military
code against which Mr. Heald is thought to have offended? One could scarcely have supposed
that officers in Her Majesty's service were living under such a despotism that they should
be compelled to solicit permission to get married, or their colonel's approbation of their choice."

In addition to thus disapproving of marriages between his officers and ladies of the stage,
Lord Londonderry (a veteran of fifty-five years' service) disapproved with equal vigour of
tobacco. "What," he once wrote to Lord Combermere, "are the Gold Sticks to do with that sink
of smoking, the Horse Guards' guard and mess-rooms? Whenever I have visited them, I have found
them worse than any pot-house, and this actually opposite the Adjutant-General's and under
his Grace's very nose!"

The example set by Cornet Heald seems to have been catching. "Another young officer of this
regiment," announced the Globe, "has just run off with a frail lady belonging to the Theatre
and actually married her at Brighton." He, too, was required to "send in his papers."

Besides losing his commission, Cornet Heald had, in his marriage, all unwittingly laid up a
peck of fresh trouble for himself. This was brought to a head by the action of his spinster
aunt, Miss Susannah Heald, who, until he came of age, had been his guardian. Suspecting Lola
of a "past," she set herself to pry into it. Gathering that her nephew's inamorata had already
been married, she employed enquiry agents to look into this previous union and discover just
how and when it had been dissolved. They did their work well, and reported that the divorce
decree of seven years earlier had not been made absolute, and that Lola's first husband, Captain
James, was still alive. Armed with this knowledge, Miss Heald hurried off to the authorities,
and, having "laid an information," had Lola Montez arrested for bigamy.

The case was heard at Marlborough Street police court, with Mr. Bingham sitting as Magistrate.
Mr. Clarkson conducted the prosecution, and Mr. Bodkin appeared for the defence.

"The proceedings of a London police court," declared John Bull, "have seldom presented a case
more fruitful of matter for public gossip than was exhibited in the investigation at Marlborough
Street, where the mediated wife of a British officer (and one invested with the distinction
of Royal favouritism) answered a charge of imputed bigamy.... It will readily be inferred that
we allude to that extraordinary personage known as Lola Montez, alias the Countess of Landsfeld."

Lola had, as the theatrical world would put it, dressed for the part. She had probably rehearsed
it, too. She wore, we learn, "a black silk costume, under a velvet jacket, and a plain white
straw bonnet trimmed with blue ribbons." As became a countess, she was not required to sit
in the dock, but was given a chair in front of it. "There," said a reporter, "she appeared
quite unembarrassed, and smiled frequently as she made a remark to her husband. She was described
on the charge sheet as being twenty-four years of age, but in our opinion she has the look
of a woman of at least thirty."

"In figure," added a second occupant of the press box, "madam is rather plump, and of middle
height, with pale complexion, unusually large blue eyes and long black lashes. Her reputed
husband, Mr. Heald, is a tall young man of boyish aspect, fair hair and small brown moustachios
and whiskers. During the whole of the proceedings he sat with the Countess's hand clasped in
his, occasionally giving it a fervent squeeze, and murmuring fondly in her ear."

All being ready, Mr. Clarkson opened the case for the prosecution.

     "The offence imputed to the lady at the bar," he said, "is
     that, well knowing her husband, Captain Thomas James, was
     still alive, she contracted another marriage with this young
     gentleman, Mr. George Trafford Heald. If this be
     established, serious consequences must follow, as I shall
     prove that the Ecclesiastical Court merely granted a decree
     a mensa et thoro." He then put in a copy of this document,
     and pointed out that, by its provisions, neither party was
     free to re-marry during the lifetime of the other. Counsel
     also submitted an extract from the register of the Hanover
     Square church, showing that, on July 19, the defendant had,
     under the name of "Maria Torres de Landsfeld," gone through
     a ceremony of marriage with Cornet Heald.

Police-sergeant Gray, who had executed the warrant, described the arrest.

"When I told her she must come along with me, the lady up and said: 'This is all rubbish. I
was properly divorced from Captain James by Act of Parliament. Lord Brougham was present when
the divorce was granted. I don't know if Captain James is still alive or not, and I don't care
a little bit. I was married to him in the wrong name, and that made the whole thing illegal.'"

"Did she say anything else?" enquired the magistrate.

"Yes, Your Worship," returned the sergeant, consulting his note-book. "She said: 'What on earth
will the Royal Family say when they hear of this? There's bound to be the devil of a fuss.'"

"Laughter in Court!" chronicled the pressmen.

"And what did you say to that?" enquired Mr. Bingham.

"I said that anything she said would be taken down by myself and used in evidence against her,"
was the glib response.

The execution of the warrant would appear to have been carried out in dramatic fashion.

Having evidently got wind of what was awaiting her, Lola and the Cornet had packed their luggage
and arranged to leave England. Just as they were stepping into their carriage, Miss Susannah
Heald and her solicitor, accompanied by a couple of police officers, drove up in a cab to Half
Moon Street. When the latter announced that they had a warrant for her arrest, there was something
of a scene. "The Countess," declared an imaginative reporter (who must have been hovering on
the doorstep), "exhibited all the appearance of excessive passion. She used very strong language,
pushed the elderly Miss Heald aside, and bustled her husband in vigorous fashion. However,
she soon cooled down, and, on being escorted to Vine Street police station, where the charge
of bigamy was booked, she graciously apologised for any trouble she had given the representatives
of the law. She then begged permission to light a cigar, and suggested that the constables
on duty there should join her in a social whiff."

Miss Susannah Heald, described as "an aged lady," deposed that she was Cornet Heald's aunt,
and that she had been appointed his guardian during his minority, which had only just expired.
She was bringing the action, she insisted, "from a sense of duty."

Another witness was Captain Charles Ingram, a mariner in the service of the East India Company.
He identified the accused as the Mrs. James who had sailed in a ship under his command from
Calcutta to London in the year 1842.

While an official return, prepared by the military authorities, showed Captain James to have
been alive on June 13, there was none to show that he was still in the land of the living on
July 19, the date of the alleged bigamous marriage. The prosecution affected to consider this
point unimportant. The magistrate, however (on whom Lola's bright eyes had done their work),
did not agree.

"The point," he said, "is, to my mind, very important. During the interval that elapsed between
these two dates many things may have happened which would render this second marriage quite
legal. It is possible, for instance, that Captain James may have been snatched from this world
to another one by any of those numerous casualties--such as wounds in action or cholera--that
are apt to befall members of the military profession serving in a tropical climate. What do
you say to that, Mr. Clarkson?"

Mr. Clarkson had nothing to say. Mr. Bodkin, however, when it came to his turn, had a good
deal to say. The charge against his client was, he declared, "in all his professional experience,
absolutely unparalleled." Neither the first nor the second husband, he pointed out, had advanced
any complaint; and the offence, if any, had been committed under circumstances that fully justified
it. He did not wish to hint at improper motives on the part of Miss Heald, but it was clear,
he protested, that her attitude was governed by private, and not by public, ends. None the
less, he concluded, "I am willing to admit that enough has been put before the Court to justify
further enquiry."

Such an admission was a slip which even the very rawest of counsel should have avoided. It
forced the hand of the magistrate.

"I am asked," he said, "to act on a presumption of guilt. As proof of guilt is wanting, I am
reluctant to act on such presumption, even to the extent of granting a remand, unless the prosecution
can assure me that more evidence will be offered at another hearing. Since, however, the defendant's
own advocate has voluntarily admitted that there is ground for further enquiry, I am compelled
to order a remand. But the accused will be released from custody on providing two sureties
of £500 each, and herself in one of £1000."

The adjourned proceedings began a week later, and were heard by another magistrate, Mr. Hardwick.
This time, however, there was no defendant, for, on her name being called by the usher, Mr.
Bodkin pulled a long face and announced that his client had left England. "I cannot," he said,
"offer any reason for her absence." Still, he had a suggestion. "It is possible," he said,
"that she has gone abroad for the benefit of her health." The question of estreating the recognizances
then arose. While not prepared to abandon them altogether, counsel for the prosecution was
sufficiently generous to say that so far as he was concerned no objection would be offered
to extending them.

When, after two more adjournments, the defendant still failed to surrender to her bail, the
magistrate and counsel for the prosecution altered their tone.

"Your Worship," said Mr. Clarkson, "it has come to my knowledge that the person whose real
name is Mrs. James, and who is charged with the felonious crime of bigamy, is now some hundreds
of miles beyond your jurisdiction, and does not mean to appear. Accordingly, on behalf of the
highly respectable Miss Heald, I now ask that the recognizances be forfeited. My client has
been actuated all through by none but the purest motives, her one object being to remove the
only son of a beloved brother from a marriage that was as illegal as it was disgraceful. If
we secure evidence from India that Captain James is still alive, we shall then adopt the necessary
steps to remove this deluded lad from the fangs of this scheming woman."

"Let the recognizances be estreated," was the magisterial comment.

"Sensation!" scribbled the reporters.

Serjeant Ballantine, who liked to have a hand in all causes célèbres, declares that he was
consulted by Lola's solicitors, with a view to undertaking her defence. If so, he would seem
to have read his instructions very casually, since he adds: "I forget whether the prosecution
was ultimately dropped, or whether she left England before any result was arrived at. My impression
is that the charge could not have been substantiated."

Ignoring the fact that the case was still sub judice, the Observer offered its readers some
severe comments:

     "The Helen of the age is most assuredly Lola Montez, alias
     Betsy James, alias the Gräfin von Lansfelt, alias Mrs.
     Heald. As far as can be gathered from her dark history, her
     first public act was alleged adultery, as her last is
     alleged bigamy.... The evidence produced before the
     Consistory Court is of the most clear and convincing nature,
     and proves that the character of this lady (whose fame has
     become so disgustingly notorious) has been from an early
     date that of a mere wanton, alike unmindful of the sacred
     ties of matrimony and utterly careless of the opinion of the
     world upon morality or religion."

By the way, during the police court proceedings, fresh light on the subject of Lola's parentage
was furnished by an odd entry in an Irish paper:

     "Lola Montez, Countess of Landsfeld, is the daughter of a
     Cork lady. Her mother was at one time employed as a member
     of a millinery establishment in this city; and was married
     here to Lieutenant Gilbert, an officer in the army. Soon
     after the marriage, he sailed with his wife and child to
     join his regiment in India. At the end of last year, Lola's
     mother, who is now in delicate health, visited her sister in
     Cork."

IV

Thanks to the bright eyes of Lola (or perhaps to the musical jingle of the Cornet's cash bags),
a very loose watch was kept on the pair. Hence the reason why the Countess of Landsfeld (as
she still insisted on being called) had not kept her second appointment at Marlborough Street
was because, together with the dashing ex-Life Guardsman, she had left England early that morning.
Travelling as Mr. and Mrs. Heald, the pair went, first, to Paris, and then to Italy.

A British tourist who happened to be in Naples wrote to The Times, giving an account of a glimpse
he had of them. According to him, the couple, "a youthful bridegroom and a fair lady," accompanied
by a courier, a femme de chambre, and a carriage, took rooms at the Hotel Vittoria. After one
night there, they left the next morning, hiring a special steamer, at a cost of £400, to take
them to Marseilles. The hurried departure was said to be due to a lawyer's letters that was
waiting for the bridegroom at his banker's. "I am told," adds the correspondent, "that Mr.
and Mrs. Heald were bound on an excursion to the Pyramids; and that, when the little business
for which the lady is wanted at home has been settled, they mean to prosecute their intention.
Pray, sir, help Mrs. Heald out of her present affliction. Is this the first time that a lady
has had two husbands? And is she not bound for the East, where every man has four wives?"

The booby Cornet, with his ideas limited to fox-hunting and a study of Ruff's Guide, was no
mate for a brilliant woman like Lola. Hence disagreements soon manifested themselves. A specially
serious one would seem to have arisen at Barcelona, for, says a letter from a mutual acquaintance,
"the Countess and her husband had a warm discussion, which ended in an attempt by her to stab
him. Mr. Heald, objecting to such a display of conjugal affection, promptly quitted the town."

Further particulars were supplied by another correspondent: "I saw Mr. Heald," says this authority.
"He is a tall, thin young man, with a fair complexion, and often uses rouge to hide his pallor.
Many pity him for what has happened. Others, however, pity the lovely Lola. Before he left
this district, Mr. Heald called on the English Consul. 'I have come,' he said,'to ask your
advice. Some of my friends here suggest that I should leave my wife. What ought I to do about
it? If I stop with her, I am afraid of being assassinated or poisoned.' He then exhibited a
garment covered with blood. The Consul replied: 'I am positively astonished that, after the
attack of which you speak, you did not complain to the police, and that you have since lived
with your wife on terms of intimacy. If you want to abandon her, you must do as you think best.
I cannot advise you.'"

H.B.M. Consul, however, did stretch a point, since he (perhaps fearing further bloodshed) offered
to viser the applicant's passport for any other country. Thereupon, Mr. Heald betook himself
to Mataro. But, becoming conscience-smitten, he promptly sat down and wrote an apologetic letter
to the lady he left behind him, begging her forgiveness. "If you should ever have reason to
complain of me again," he said, "this letter will always act as a talisman."

Apparently it had the effect, for Lola returned to her penitent spouse.

The Barcelona correspondent of L'Assemblée Nationale managed to interview the Cornet.

"He says," announced this authority, "that others persuaded him to depart, against his real
wishes. On rejoining him, Mrs. Heald was most indignant. Her eyes positively flashed fire;
and, if she should chance to encounter the men who took her husband from her, I quite tremble
to think what will happen!"

Something obviously did happen, for, according to de Mirecourt, "during their sojourn in Sunny
Spain, the admirable English husband made his wife the gratified mother of two beautiful offspring."
Parenthood, however, would appear to have had an odd effect upon this couple, for, continues
de Mirecourt: "Mais, en dépit de ces gages d'amour, leur bonheur est troublé par des querelles
intestines."

It was from Spain that, having adjusted their differences temporarily, the couple went back
to Paris. As a peace offering, a rising young artist, Claudius Jacquand, was commissioned to
paint both their portraits on a single canvas. During, however, another domestic rupture, Heald
demanded that Lola's features should be painted out. "I want nothing," he said, "to remind
me of that woman." Unfortunately, Lola had just made a similar demand where the Cornet was
concerned. Jacquand was a man of talent, but he could not do impossibilities. Thereupon, Lola,
breathing fire and fury, took the canvas away and hung it with its back to the front in her
bedroom. "To allow my husband to watch me always would," she said, "be indelicate!"

There is a theory that, within the next twelve months, the ill-assorted union was dissolved
by Heald getting upset in a rowing-boat and drowned in Lisbon harbour. The theory, however,
is a little difficult to reconcile with the fact that, on the close of the Great Exhibition
at the end of 1851, he attended an auction of the effects, where he bought a parquet floor
and had it laid down in his drawing-room at Berrymead Priory. After this he had a number of
structural alterations added; fitted the windows with some stained glass, bearing his crest
and initials; and, finally, did not give up the lease until 1855. Pretty good work, this, for
a man said to have met with a watery grave six years earlier.

As a matter of strict fact, Cornet Heald was not drowned, either at Lisbon or anywhere else.
He died in his bed at Folkestone, in 1856. The medical certificate attributed the cause of
death to consumption. In the Gentleman's Magazine, however, the diagnosis was different, viz.,
"broken heart."

All things pass. In 1859 the executors of the dashing Cornet sold the Berrymead property for
£7000, to be repurchased soon afterwards for £23,000 by a land-development company. The house
now serves as the premises of the Priory Constitutional Club, Acton. A certain amount of evidence
of Cornet Heald's one-time occupancy still exists.

CHAPTER XIII

ODYSSEY

I

Notwithstanding the tie of alleged parenthood, domestic relations between them did not improve,
and the couple soon parted. The knowledge that she was still "wanted" there kept Lola out of
England. Instead, she went to Paris, where such unpleasantnesses as warrants could not touch
her. There she was given a warm welcome, by old friends and new.

During this visit to Paris an unaccustomed set-back was experienced. She received it from Émile
de Girardin, of whom she endeavoured to make a conquest. But this "wild-eyed, pale-faced man
of letters," as she called him, would have none of her. Perhaps he remembered what had befallen
Dujarier.

As was to be expected, the coming among them of Lola Montez attracted the attention of the
courrierists, who earned many welcome francs by filling columns with details of her career.
What they did not know about it they invented. They knew very little. Thus, one such article
(appropriately signed "Fantasio") read as follows:

     "Madame Lola Montez, who is now happily returned to us, is
     the legitimate spouse of Sir Thomas James, an officer of the
     English Army. Milord Sir James loved to drink and the
     beautiful Lola loved to flirt. A wealthy Prince of Kabul was
     willing to possess her for her weight in gold and gems. Up
     till now, her principal love affairs have been with Don
     Enriquez, a Spaniard, Brûle-Tout, a well-developed French
     mariner, and John, a phlegmatic Englishman. One day Sir
     James bet that he could drink three bottles of brandy in
     twenty minutes. While he was thus occupied, the amorous Lola
     made love to three separate gallants."

     "It will doubtless," added a second, "be gratifying to her
     pride to queen it again in Paris, where she was once hissed
     off the stage. There she will at any rate now be received at
     the Bavarian Embassy, and exhibit the Order of Maria
     Theresa. She was invested with this to the considerable
     scandal of the Munich nobility, who cannot swallow the idea
     of such a distinction being bestowed on a dancer."

This sort of thing and a great deal more in a similar strain, was accepted as gospel by its
readers. But for those who wished her ill, any lie was acceptable. Thus, although there was
not a scrap of evidence to connect her with the incident, a paragraph, headed "Lola Again?"
was published in the London papers:

     Yesterday afternoon an extraordinary scene was witnessed by
     the promenaders in the Champs Elysées. Two fashionably
     attired ladies, driving in an elegant equipage, were heard
     to be employing language that was anything but refined. From
     words to blows, for suddenly they began to assault one
     another with vigorous smacks. The toilettes and faces of the
     fair contestants were soon damaged; and, loud cries of
     distress being uttered, the carriage was stopped, and,
     attracted by the fracas, some gentlemen hurried to render
     assistance. As a result of their interference, one of the
     damsels was expelled from the vehicle, and the other ordered
     the coachman to drive her to her hotel. This second lady is
     familiar to the public by reason of her adventures in
     Bavaria.

Albert Vandam, a singularly objectionable type of journalist, who professed to be on intimate
terms with everybody in Paris worth knowing, has a number of offensive and unjustifiable allusions
to Lola Montez at this period of her career. He talks of her "consummate impudence," of her
"pot-house wit," and of her "grammatical errors," and dubs her, among other things, "this almost
illiterate schemer."

"Lola Montez," says the egregious Vandam, "could not make friends." He was wrong. This was
just what she could do. She made many staunch and warm-hearted friends. It was because she
snubbed him on account of his pushfulness that Vandam elected to belittle her.

Lola Montez chose her friends for their disposition, not for their virtue. One of them was
George Sand, "the possessor of the largest mind and the smallest foot in Paris." She also became
intimate with Alphonsine Plessis, and constantly visited the future "Lady of the Camelias"
in her appartement on the Boulevard de la Madeleine. Another habitué there at this period was
Lola's old Dresden flame, the Abbé Liszt, who, not confining his attentions to the romanticists,
had no compunction about poaching on the preserves of Dumas fils, or, for that matter, of anybody
else. As for the fair, but frail, Alphonsine, she said quite candidly that she was "perfectly
willing to become his mistress, if he wanted it, but was not prepared to share the position."
As Liszt had other ideas on the subject, the suggestion came to nothing.

Before she set out on this journey, Lola wrote to an acquaintance: "What makes men and women
distinguished is their individuality; and it is for that I will conquer or die!" Of this quality,
she had enough and to spare. Her Paris life was hectic; or, as the Boulevardiers put it, elle
faisait la bombe.

Among the tit-bits of gossip served up by a reporter was the following:

     "Lola is constantly giving tea-parties in her Paris flat. A
     gentleman who is frequently bidden to them tells us that her
     masculine guests are restricted to such as have left their
     wives, and that the feminine guests consist of ladies who
     have left their husbands."

An Englishman whom she met at this time was Savile Morton, a friend of Thackeray and Tennyson.
One night when she was giving a supper-party, a fellow-guest, Roger de Beauvoir, happened to
read to the company some verses he had written. The hostess, on the grounds of their alleged
"coarseness," complained to Morton that she had been insulted. As a result, Morton, being head
over ears in love with her, sent de Beauvoir a challenge. Lola, however, having had enough
of duels, took care that nothing should come of it; and insisted that an apology should be
given and accepted.

At one time she was optimistic enough to take a villa at Beaujon on a fifteen years' lease,
and had it refurnished in sumptuous fashion on credit. The first two instalments of the rent
were met. When, however, the landlord called to collect the third one, he was put off with
the excuse that: "Mr. Heald was away and had forgotten to send the money, but would be back
in a week." This story might have been accepted, had not the landlord discovered that his tenant
was planning to leave surreptitiously and that some of the furniture had already been removed.
As a result, a body of indignant tradesmen, accompanied by the Maire of the district, in tricoloured
sash and wand of office complete, betook themselves to the villa and demanded a settlement
of accounts for goods delivered. This time they were told that the money had arrived, but that
the key of the box in which it had been deposited for safety was lost. Assuring them that she
would fetch a locksmith, Lola slipped out of the house, and, stepping into a waiting cab, drove
off to a new address near the Étoile. This was the last that the creditors saw of her.

In January, 1851, Lola, setting an example that has since then become much more common among
theatrical ladies, compiled her "memoirs." When the editor of Le Pays undertook to publish
them in his columns, a rival editor, jealous of the "scoop," referred to their author as "Madame
James, once Madame Heald, formerly Mlle Lola Montez, and for nearly a quarter of an hour the
Countess of Landsfeld."

The work was dedicated to her old patron, King Ludwig, with a florid avant-propos:

     Sire: In publishing my memoirs, my purpose is to reveal to a
     world still engulfed in a vulgar materialism Your Majesty's
     lofty thoughts about art, poetry, and philosophy. The
     inspiration of this book, Sire, is due to yourself, and to
     those other remarkable men whom Fortune--always the
     protector of my younger years--has given me as councillors
     and friends.

Lola must have written with more candour than tact. At any rate, after the first three chapters
had appeared, the editor of Le Pays, on the grounds that they would "shock his purer readers,"
refused to continue the series. "We positively decline," he announced, "to sully our columns
further."

II

Authorship having thus proved a failure, Lola, swallowing her disappointment, directed her
thoughts to her old love, the ballet. To this end, she placed herself in the hands of a M.
Roux; and, a number of engagements having been secured by him, she began a provincial tour
at Bordeaux. By the time it was completed the star and her manager were on such bad terms that,
when they got back to Paris, the latter was dismissed. Thereupon, he hurried off to a notary,
and brought an action against his employer, claiming heavy damages.

According to Maître Desmaret, his client, M. Roux, had been engaged in the capacity of pilote
intermédiare during a prospective tour in Europe and America. For his services he was to have
25 per cent of the box-office receipts. On this understanding he had accompanied his principal
to a number of towns. He then returned to Paris; and while he was negotiating there for the
defendant's appearance at the Vaudeville, he suddenly discovered that she was planning to go
to America without him. As a result, he was now claiming damages for breach of contract. These
he laid at the modest figure of 10,000 francs.

M. Blot-Lequesne, on behalf of Lola Montez, had a somewhat different story to tell. The plaintiff
himself, he declared, wanted to get out of the contract and had deliberately disregarded its
terms. His client, he said, had authorised him to accept an engagement for her to dance six
times a week; but, in his anxiety to make additional profit for himself, he had compelled her
to dance six times a day. Apart from this, he had "signally failed to respect her dignity as
a woman, and had invented ridiculous stories about her career." He had even done worse, for,
"without her knowledge or sanction, he had compiled and distributed among the audiences where
she appeared an utterly preposterous biography of his employer." This, among other matters,
asserted that she had "lived and danced for eleven years in China and Persia; and that she
had been befriended by the dusky King of Nepaul, as well as by numerous rajahs."

The concluding passage from this effort was read to the judge:

"Ten substantial volumes would be filled with the chronicle of the eccentricities of Mlle Lola
Montez, and much of them would still be left unsaid. In the year 1847 a great English lord
married her in London. Unfortunately, they found themselves not in sympathy, and in 1850 she
returned to the dreams of her spring-time. The Countess has now completed one half of her projected
tour. In November she leaves France for America and--well--God only knows what will happen then!"

"As long," said counsel, "as the amiable Mlle Montez was treated by M. Roux like a wild animal
exhibited at a country fair, she merely shrugged her shoulders in disgust. When, however, she
saw how this abominable pamphlet lifted the curtain from her private life, it was another thing
altogether. She expressed womanly indignation, and made a spirited response."

"What was that?" enquired the judge, with interest.

"She said: 'It is lucky for you, sir, that my husband is not here to protect me. If he were,
he would certainly pull your nose!'"

As was inevitable, this expression of opinion shattered the entente, and the manager returned
to Paris by himself. Hearing nothing from him, Lola Montez thought that she was at liberty
to make her own plans, and had accordingly arranged the American tour without his help.

On November 6, 1851, continued counsel, Lola Montez arrived in Paris, telling M. Roux that
she would leave for America on November 20, but that she would fulfil any engagement he secured
during the interval. Just before she was ready to start he said he had got her one, but he
would not tell her where it was or produce any written contract.

Accepting this version as the correct one, the Court pronounced judgment in favour of Lola Montez.

III

M. Roux having thus been dismissed with a flea in his ear, Lola, on the advice of Peter Goodrich,
the American consul in Paris, next engaged Richard Storrs Willis (a brother of N. P. Willis,
the American poet) to look after her business affairs, and left Europe for America. As the
good ship Humbolt, by which she was sailing, warped into harbour at New York, a salute of twenty-one
guns thundered from the Battery. Lola, mightily pleased, took this expenditure of ammunition
as a tribute to herself. When, however, she discovered that it was really to herald the coming
of Louis Kossuth, who also happened to be on board, she registered annoyance and retired to
her cabin, to nurse her wrath. A Magyar patriot to be more honoured than an English ex-favourite
of a King! What next?

"A gentleman travelling with her informed our representative," said the New York Herald, "that
Madame had declared Kossuth to be a great humbug. The Countess was a prodigious favourite among
the masculine passengers during the voyage, and continually kept them in roars of laughter."

But, if disappointed in one respect, Lola derived a measure of compensation from the fact that
the bevy of reporters who met the vessel found her much more interesting than the stranger
from Hungary.

"Madame Lola Montez," remarked one of them, who had gone off with a bulging note-book, crammed
with enough "copy" to fill a column, "says that a number of shocking falsehoods about her have
been published in our journals. Yet she insists she is not the woman she is credited (or discredited)
with being. If she were, her admirers, she thinks, would be still more plentiful than they
are. She expresses herself as fearful that she will not have proper consideration in New York;
but she trusts that the great American public will suspend judgment until they have made her
acquaintance."

"The Countess of Landsfeld, who is now among us," adds a second scribe, "owes more to the brilliancy
of intellect with which Heaven has gifted her than to her world-wide celebrity as an artiste.
Her person and bearing are unmistakably aristocratic. If we may credit the stories which from
time to time have reached us, she can, if necessary, use her riding-whip in vigorous fashion
about the ears of any offending biped or quadruped. In America she is somewhat out of her latitude.
Paris should be her real home."

For the present, however, Lola decided to stop where she was.

While she was in America on this tour, Barnum wanted to be her impresario, and promised "special
terms." Despite, however, the lure of "having her path garlanded with flowers and her carriage
drawn by human hands from hotel to theatre," the offer was not accepted.

The New York début of Lola Montez was made on December 29, 1851, in a ballet: Betly, the Tyrolean.
Public excitement ran high, for appetites had been whetted by the sensational accounts of her
"past" with which the papers were filled.

"Scandal does not necessarily create a great dancer," declared one rigid critic; and a second
had a long column, headed: "MONTEZ v. RESPECTABILITY," in which he observed (thoughtfully supplying
a translation): "Parturiunt MONTEZ, nascitur ridiculus mus." All the same, the box-office reported
record business. As a result, prices were doubled, and the seats put up to auction.

If she had her enemies in the press, Lola also had her champions there. Just before she arrived,
one of them, a New York paper, took up the cudgels on her behalf in vigorous fashion:

     The most funny proceeding that is going on in this town is
     the terrible to-do that is being made about Lola Montez. If
     this state of things continues we will guarantee a
     continuance of the fun after Lola makes her advent among us,
     for if she doesn't properly horse-whip those squeamish
     gentlemen we are much mistaken in her character.

     Now we want to call the attention of our fair-minded readers
     to a few other matters that are sure to occur. Here are the
     various papers pouring out a torrent of abuse on Lola. What
     will it all amount to? In a few weeks she will land. In a
     few weeks a popular theatre will be occupied by her, and
     tens of thousands will throng that theatre. The manager will
     reap a fortune, and so will Lola Montez; and those
     short-sighted conductors of the Press will be begging for
     tickets and quarrelling among themselves as to who can say
     the most extravagant things in her favour. Public curiosity
     will be gratified at any price; and if Lola Montez is a
     capital dancer she will soon dance down all opposition. With
     what grace can the public talk about virtue in a public
     actress, when they have followed in the wake of an ELSSLER?
     If the private character of a public actress is to be the
     criterion by which to judge of her professional merit, then
     half the theatres would be compelled to shut their doors.

     We are as independently correct as any other paper that
     exists. We don't care a straw whether we go on with or
     without the other newspapers. We will do justice and say
     what is true, regardless of popularity. We detest hypocrisy;
     and we have no disposition to make a mountain out of a
     molehill, or to see a mote in the eye of Lola Montez, and
     not discover a beam in the eye of Fanny Elssler, or of any
     of the other great dancers or actresses.

     "What is Lola Montez?" enquire the public. A good dancer,
     says the manager of a theatre. She is also notorious. The
     public will crowd the theatre to see her and to judge
     whether she is not also a good actress; and if they get
     their money's worth, they are satisfied. They do not pay to
     judge of the former history of Lola Montez.... A few
     squeamish people cannot prevent Lola Montez from creating a
     sensation here, or from crowding from pit to dome any house
     where she may appear; and, as they will be the first to
     endorse her success, they would be more consistent were they
     to let her alone until she secures it.

None the less, there was competition to meet. A great deal of competition, for counter-attractions
were being offered in all directions. Thus, "Professor" Anderson was conjuring rabbits out
of borrowed top hats; Thackeray was lecturing on "The English Humourists"; Macready was bellowing
and posturing in Shakespeare; General Tom Thumb was exhibiting his lack of inches; and Mrs.
Bloomer was advancing the cause of "Trousers for Women!" Still, Lola more than held her own
as a "draw."

In January the bill was changed to Diana and the Nymphs. The fact that some of the "Nymphs"
supporting the star adopted a costume a little suggestive of modern nudism appears to have
upset a feminine critic.

"When," was her considered opinion, "a certain piece first presented a partly unclothed woman
to the gaze of a crowded auditory, she was met with a gasp of astonishment at the effrontery
which dared so much. Men actually grew pale at the boldness of the thing; young girls hung
their heads; a death-like silence fell over the house. But it passed; and, in view of the fact
that these women were French ballet-dancers, they were tolerated."

To show that she was properly qualified to express her views on such a delicate matter, this
censor added: "Belonging, root and branch, to a theatrical family, I have not on that account
been deemed unworthy to break bread at an imperial table, nor to grasp the hand of friendship
extended to me by an English lordly divine."

By the way, on this subject of feminine attire (or the lack of it) a rigid standard was also
applicable to the audience's side of the curtain, and any departure from it met with reprisals.
This is made clear by a shocked paragraph chronicling one such happening at another theatre:

     "During the evening of our visit there transpired an
     occurrence to which we naturally have some delicacy in
     alluding. Since, however, it indicates a censorship in a
     quarter where refinement is perhaps least to be expected, it
     should not be suffered by us to pass unnoticed. In the
     stalls, which were occupied by a number of ladies and
     gentlemen in full evening costume, and of established social
     position, there was to be observed a woman whose remarkable
     lowness of corsage attracted much criticism. Indeed, it
     obviously scandalised the audience, among the feminine
     portion of which a painful sensation was abundantly
     perceptible. At last, their indignation found tangible
     expression; and a voice from the pit was heard to utter in
     measured accents a stern injunction that could apply to but
     one individual. Blushing with embarrassment, the offender
     drew her shawl across her uncovered shoulders. A few minutes
     later, she rose and left the house, amid well merited hisses
     from the gallery, and significant silence from the outraged
     occupants of the stalls and boxes."

Decorum was one thing; décolletage was another. In the considered opinion of 1851 the two did
not blend.

A certain Dr. Judd, who, in the intervals of his medical practice, was managing a Christy Minstrels
entertainment at this period, has some recollections of Lola Montez. "Many a long chat," he
says, "I had with her in our little bandbox of a ticket-office. Thackeray's Vanity Fair was
being read in America just then, and Lola expressed to me great anger that the novelist should
have put her into it as Becky Sharp. 'If he had only told the truth about me,' she said, 'I
should not have cared, but he derived his inspiration from my enemies in England.'"

This item appears to have been unaccountably missed by Thackeray's other historians.

IV

Lola's tastes were distinctly "Bohemian," and led her, while in New York, to be a constant
visitor at Pfaff's underground delicatessen café, then a favourite haunt of the literary and
artistic worlds of the metropolis. There she mingled with such accepted celebrities as Walt
Whitman, W. Dean Howells, Commodore Vanderbilt, and that other flashing figure, Adah Isaacs
Menken. She probably found in Pfaff's a certain resemblance to the Munich beer-halls with which
she had been familiar. A bit of the Fatherland, as it were, carried across the broad Atlantic.
German solids and German liquids; talk and laughter and jests among the company of actors and
actresses and artists and journalists gathered night after night at the tables; everybody in
a good temper and high spirits.

Walt Whitman, inspired, doubtless, by beer, once described the place in characteristic rugged
verse:

    The vaults at Pfaff's, where the drinkers and laughers meet
        to eat and drink and carouse,
    While on the walk immediately overhead pass the myriad feet
        of Broadway.

There was a good deal more of it, for, when he had been furnished with plenty of liquid refreshment,
the Muse of Walt ran to length.

From New York Lola set out on a tour to Philadelphia, St. Louis, and Boston. While in this
last town, she "paid a visit of ceremony" to one of the public schools. Although the children
there "expressed surprise and delight at the honour accorded them," the Boston Transcript shook
its editorial head; and "referred to the visit in a fashion that aroused the just indignation
of the lady and her friends."

The cudgels were promptly taken up on her behalf by a New York journalist:

"Lola Montez," he declared, "owes less of her strange fascination and world-wide celebrity
to her powers as an artiste than to the extraordinary mind and brilliancy of intellect with
which Heaven has thought fit to endow her. At one moment ruling a kingdom, through an imbecile
monarch; and the next, the wife of a dashing young English lord.... Her person and bearing
are unmistakably aristocratic. In her recent visit to one of our public schools she surprised
and delighted the scholars by addressing them in the Latin language with remarkable facility."

It would be of interest to learn the name of the "dashing young English lord." This, however,
was probably a brevet rank conferred by the pressman on Cornet Heald.

On April 27, 1852, Lola Montez appeared at the Albany Museum in selections from her repertoire.
On this occasion she brought with her a "troupe of twelve dancing girls." As an additional
lure, the bills described these damsels as "all of them unmarried, and most of them under sixteen."

But the attraction which proved the biggest success in her repertoire was a drama called Lola
in Bavaria. This was said to be written by "a young literary gentleman of New England, the
son of a somewhat celebrated poetess." The heroine, who was never off the stage for more than
five minutes, was depicted in turns as a dancer, a politician, a countess, a revolutionary,
and a fugitive; and among the other characters were Ludwig I, Eugéne Sue, Dujarier, and Cornet
Heald, while the setting offered "a correct representation of the Lola Montez palace at Munich."
It seemed good value. At any rate, the public thought it was, and full houses were secured.
But the critics restrained their raptures. "I sympathise," was the acid comment of one of them,
"with the actresses who were forced to take part in such stuff"; and Joseph Daly described
the heroine as "deserting a royal admirer to court the sovereign public." The author of this
balderdash was one C. P. T. Ware, "a poor little hack playwright, who wrote anything for anybody."

March of 1853 found Lola Montez fulfilling an engagement at the Variétés Theatre, St. Louis.
Kate Field, the daughter of the proprietor, wrote a letter on the subject to her aunt.

     "Well, Lola Montez appeared at father's theatre last night
     for the first time. The theatre was crowded from parquet to
     doors. She had the most beautiful eyes I ever saw. I liked
     her very much; but she performed a dumb girl, so I cannot
     say what she would do in speaking characters."

During this engagement Lola apparently proved a little difficile, for her critic adds: "She
is trying to trouble father as much as possible."

Lola certainly was apt to "trouble" people with whom she came into contact. As an accepted
"star," she had a high sense of her own importance and considered herself above mere rules.
Once, when travelling from Niagara to Buffalo by train, she elected to sit in the baggage car
and puff a cigarette. "While," says a report, "thus cosily ensconced, she was discovered by
the conductor and promptly informed by him that such behaviour was not permitted. Thereupon,
Madame replied that it was her custom to travel where and how she pleased, and that she had
frequently horse-whipped much bigger men than the conductor. This settled the matter, for the
company's officer did not care to challenge the tigress."

The visit to Buffalo was crowned with success. "Lola Montez," declared the Troy Budget, "has
done what Mrs. McMahon failed to accomplish--she positively charmed the Buffaloes. This can
perhaps be attributed to her judicious choice of the ex-Reverend Chauncey Burr, by whom she
is accompanied on her tour in the capacity of business-manager."

The choice of an "ex-Reverend" to conduct a theatrical tour seems, perhaps, a little odd. Still,
as Lola once remarked: "It is a common enough thing in America for a bankrupt tradesman or
broken-down jockey to become a lawyer, a doctor, or even a parson." Hence, from the pulpit
to the footlights was no great step.

CHAPTER XIV

THE "GOLDEN WEST"

I

As this was before the days when actresses in search of publicity announce that they are not
going to Hollywood, Lola had to hit on a fresh expedient to keep her name in the news. Ever
fertile of resource, the one she now adopted was to give out that this would be her "positively
last appearance, as she was abandoning the stage and becoming a nun." The scheme worked, and
the box-office coffers were filled afresh. But Lola did not take the veil. Instead, she took
a trip to California, sailing by the Isthmus route in the summer of 1853.

Russell was not a fellow-passenger in the ship by which Lola travelled. Somebody else, however,
who did happen to be one, gives a very different description of her conduct on the journey:

"We had not been at sea one day," says Mrs. Knapp, "before all the saloon occupants were charmed
by this lovely young woman. Her vivacity was infectious, and her abandon was always of a specially
airy refinement."

The arrival of Lola Montez at San Francisco would have eclipsed that of any Hollywood heroine
of the present era. A vast crowd, headed by the City Fathers, "in full regalia," gathered at
the quay. Flags decked the public buildings; guns fired a salute; bands played; and the schoolchildren
were assembled to strew her path with flowers as she stepped down the gangway; and, "to the
accompaniment of ringing cheers," the horses were taken from her carriage, which was dragged
by eager hands through the streets to her hotel. "The Countess acknowledged the reception accorded
her with a graceful inclination."

"What if Europe has exiled her?" demanded an editorial. "This is of no consequence. After all,
she is Lola Montez, acknowledged Mistress of Kings! She is beautiful above other women; she
is gorgeous; she is irresistible; and we are genuinely proud to welcome her."

Enveloped in legend, the reputation of the newcomer for "eccentricity" had preceded her. She
lived up to this reputation, too, for, when the spirit moved her (and it did so quite often),
she would dance in the beer gardens "for fun"; she had her hair cut short, when other women
were affecting chignons; and--wonder of wonders--she would "actually smoke cigarettes in public."
Clearly, a trifle ahead of her period.

By the way, while she was in San Francisco, Lola is said to have renewed her acquaintance with
the mysterious Jean François Montez, who, during the interval since they last met, had turned
over a fresh leaf and was now married. But according to a chronicler: "The family felicity
very soon succumbed to the lure of the lovely Lola." Without, too, any support for the assertion,
a contributor of theatrical gossip dashed off an imaginative column, in which he declared her,
among other things, to have been "the petted companion of Louis Napoleon"; and also "the idolised
dancer of the swells and wits of the capitals of the Old World, with the near relatives of
royalty and the beaux of Paris for her intimates."

This was going too far. Lola, much incensed, shook her dog-whip and threatened reprisals.

"What's the matter with you?" demanded the journalist, astonished at the outburst, "it's good
publicity, isn't it?"

"Yes, but not the sort I want," was the response.

Still, whether she wanted it, or not, Lola was soon to have a good deal more "publicity." This
was because she suddenly appeared with a husband on her arm.

Although the bridegroom, Patrick Purdy Hull, was a fellow-editor, the Daily Alta, of California,
considered that the news value of the event was not worth more than a couple of lines:

     "On the 2nd inst. Lola Montez and P. P. Hull, Esq., of this
     city (and late of the San Francisco Whig) were married at
     the Mission Dolores."

Obviously regarding this as a somewhat meagre allowance, a New York journal furnished fuller
details:

     Among the recent domestic happenings of the times in
     California, the marriage of the celebrated Lola Montez will
     attract most attention. This distinguished lady has again
     united herself in the bonds of wedlock, the happy young man
     being Patrick Purdy Hull, Esq., formerly of Ohio, and for
     the past four years employed in the newspaper business in
     San Francisco.

     Mr. Hull was a fellow-passenger with the fascinating
     Countess on her trip to California; and the acquaintance
     then formed fast ripened into an attachment which
     terminated fatally to his bachelorhood. The nuptials were
     consummated [sic] at the Holy Church of the Mission
     Dolores in the presence of a highly respectable gathering of
     prominent citizens.

The "prominent citizens" included "Governor Wainwright, Judge Wills, Captain McMichael, Mr.
and Mrs. Clayton, and Beverley Saunders, Esq." An attempt was made to keep the ceremony secret;
and, with this end in view, the invited guests were pledged not to divulge it beforehand. On
the previous evening Captain McMichael, being something of a tactician, announced to them:
"We do not yet know for certain that the affair will ever come off, and we may all be jolly
well sold." When they assembled at the Mission Church, it looked as if this would happen, as
neither of the couple appeared. Suddenly, however, they drove up in a carriage and entered
the church. The "blushing bride," says a reporter who had hidden behind a pillar, "carried
a bouquet of orange blossoms, and the organ played 'The Voice that breathed o'er Eden'"; and
another chronicler adds: "On the conclusion of the ceremony, all adjourned to partake of a
splendid spread, with wine and cigars ad lib." But this was not all, for: "Governor Wainwright,
giving a significant wink, kissed the new-made bride, Mrs. Hull. His example was promptly followed
by Mr. Henry Clayton, 'just to make the occasion memorable,' he said. 'Such is the custom of
my country,' remarked Madame Lola. She was not kissed by anybody else, but she none the less
had a pleasant word for all."

II

It was at Sacramento that Lola and her new husband began their married life. The conditions
of the town were a little primitive just then; and even in the principal hotel the single guests
were expected to sleep in dormitories. The cost of board and lodging (with bed in a bunk) was
150 dollars a week. As for the "board," standing items on the daily menu would be boiled leg
of grizzly bear, donkey steak, and jack-rabbit. "No kickshaws" was the proud boast of every chef.

In addition to his editorial labours (which were not unduly exacting), Hull was employed by
the Government on census work, preparing statistics of the rapidly increasing population. But
Lola, much to his annoyance, did not add to his figures for the Registrar-General's return.
The footlights proved a stronger lure than maternity; and, almost immediately after her marriage,
she accepted an engagement at one of the theatres, where she appeared as Lady Teazle. A countess
in that part of the world being a novelty, the public rallied to the box-office in full force
and "business" was phenomenal. Still, competition there, as elsewhere. Some of it, too, of
a description that could not be ignored. Thus, Ole Bull was giving concerts at the Opera House,
and causing hardened diggers to shed tears when he played "Home Sweet Home" to them on his
violin; Edwin Booth, "supported by a powerful company," was mouthing Shakespeare, and tearing
passion to tatters in the process; and a curious freak, billed as "Zoyara, the Hermaphrodite"
(with a "certificate of genuineness, as to her equestrian skill and her virtues as a lady,
from H.M. the King of Sardinia") was cramming the circus to capacity every afternoon and evening.
Yet, notwithstanding His Majesty's "certificate," it is a fact that its recipient "married"
a woman member of the troupe. "The long sustained deception has been dropped," says a paragraphist,
"and the young man who assumed the name of 'Madame Zoyara' is now to be seen in correct masculine
attire."

Still, despite all this, Lola kept her public. After all, a countess was a countess. But, before
long, there was a difference of opinion with the manager of the theatre in which she was appearing.
Lola, who never brooked criticism, had "words" with him. High words, as it happened; and, flourishing
her whip in his face, she tore up her contract and walked out of the building.

"Get somebody else," she said. "I'm through."

The difference of opinion appears to have arisen because Lola elected to consider herself "insulted"
by a member of the audience while she was dancing, and the manager had not taken her part.
The next evening, accordingly, she made a speech in public, giving him a "bit of her mind."
The result was, declared the San Francisco Alta, "the Countess came off the victor, bearing
away the bravas and bouquets. At the conclusion of her address she was hailed by thunderous
cheers, amid which she smiled sweetly, dropped a curtsey, and retired gracefully."

Much to their surprise, those who imagined that the honours of the evening went to Lola read
in the next issue of the Californian that "the applause was all sham, the paid enthusiasm of
a hired house." This was more than flesh and blood could stand. At any rate, it was more than
Lola could stand; and she sent the editor a fierce letter, challenging him to a duel. "I must
request," was its last passage, "that this affair of honour be arranged by your seconds as
soon as possible, as my time is quite as valuable as your own: MARIE DE LANDSFELD-HULL (LOLA
MONTEZ)."

The editor of the Californian did not accept the suggestion. Instead, he applied the necessary
balm, and the pistols-for-two-and-coffee-for-one order was countermanded.

III

A woman of moods, when Lola made a change, it was a complete one. She made one now. The artificiality
of the towns, with their false standards and atmosphere of pretence, had begun to pall. She
wanted to try a fresh milieu. Everybody was talking just then of Grass Valley, a newly opened-up
district, set amid a background of the rugged Sierras, where gangs of miners were delving for
gold in the bowels of Mother Earth, and, if half the accounts were true, amassing fortunes.
Why not go there and see for herself? It would at least be a novel experience.

No sooner said than done. Hiring a mule team and wagon, and accompanied by Patrick Hull, she
started off on a preliminary tour of inspection of the district.

Travelling was unhurried in those leisurely days. There were several stoppages; and the roads
were rough, and long detours had to be made to avoid yawning canyons. "At the end of two weeks
from the time they left Sacramento behind them, Pat Hull and his charming bride wheeled across
the mountains into Grass Valley."

"There were about 1600 people in the township of Marysville at this period," says a chronicler,
"and 1400 of them were of the masculine sex. The prospect of sudden riches was the attraction
that drew them. England and the Continent were represented by some of the first families. A
dozen were graduates of Oxford and Cambridge; there were two young relatives of Victor Hugo;
there were a number of scions of the impoverished nobility of Bohemia; and several hundred
Americans. Among the latter was William Morris Stewart, a Marysville lawyer, who was afterwards
to become a senator and attorney-general."

Grass Valley at this period (the autumn of 1853) was little more than a wilderness. The nearest
town of any size was Nevada City, fringed by the shadows of the lofty Sierras. Between the
gulches had sprung up as if by magic a forest of tented camps and tin-roofed shanties, with
gambling-booths and liquor saloons by the hundred, in which bearded men dug hard by day, and
played faro and monte and drank deep by night. Fortunes were made--and spent--and nuggets were
common currency. The cost of living was very high. But it cost still more to be ill, since
a grain of gold was the accepted tariff for a grain of quinine.

The whole district was a melting-pot. Attracted by the prospect of the precious metal that
was to be wrung from it, there had drifted into the Valley a flotsam and jetsam, representatives
of all nations and of all callings. As was natural, Americans in the majority; but, with them,
Englishmen and Frenchmen and Germans and Italians, plus an admixture of Chinamen and Kanakas;
also an undesirable element of deserters from ships and convicts escaped from Australia. To
keep them in some sort of order, rough justice was the rule. Mayors and sheriffs had arbitrary
powers, and did not hesitate to employ them. Judge Lynch was supreme; and a length of hemp
dangling from a branch was part of the equipment of every camp.

With a full knowledge of all these possible drawbacks, Lola Montez looked upon Grass Valley
and saw that it was good. Perhaps the Bret Harte atmosphere appealed to her. At any rate, she
decided to settle down there temporarily; and, with this end in view, she persuaded Hull to
buy a six-roomed cottage just above Marysville.

