These were Northcountrymen; but there was a quality about them of which I have often been reminded,
in watching or hearing tell of the men in this Surrey village. It is the thing that most impresses
all who come into any sympathetic contact with my neighbours their readiness to make a start
at the dangerous or disagreeable task when others would be still talking, and their apparent
expectation that they will succeed. In this spirit they occasionally do things quite as well
worthy of mention as the incident described by Dickens. I remember looking on myself at just
such another piece of work, in the town a mile away from here, one winter day. The sluggish
"river," as we call it, which flows amongst meadows on the south of the town, is usually fordable
beside one of the bridges, and men with horses and carts as often as not drive through the
ford, instead of going over the bridge. But on the day I am recalling floods had so swollen
the stream that a horse and cart were swept down under the narrow bridge, and had got jammed
there, the driver having escaped over the iron railings of the bridge as the cart went under.
I don't know what became of him then--he was but a lad, I was told. When I came on the scene,
a number of people were on the bridge, while many more were down on the river banks, whence
they could see the horse and cart under the arch. A few were bawling out unheeded advice as
to what should be done; in fact, a heated altercation had arisen between the two loudest--a
chimney-sweep and a medical man--whose theories disagreed; but it was plain to everybody that
it would be a risky thing to venture under the bridge into that swirling stream. For ten minutes
or more, while the horse remained invisible to us on the bridge, and likely to drown, the dispute
snapped angrily from bank to bank, punctuated occasionally by excited cries, such as "He's
gettin' lower!" "He's sinkin' down!" Then, unobserved, a bricklayer's labourer came running
with a rope, which he hurriedly made into a noose and tightened under his armpits. None of
the shouters, by the way, had suggested such a plan. The man was helped over the railings and
swiftly lowered--Heaven knows who took a hand at that--and so he disappeared for five minutes.
Then a shout: the horse came into view, staggering downstream with harness cut, and scrambled
up into the meadow; and the man, drenched and deadly white, and too benumbed to help himself,
was hauled up on to the bridge, and carried to the nearest inn. I never heard his name--people
of his sort, as Dickens knew, are generally anonymous--but he was one of the labourers of the
locality, and only last winter I saw him shivering at the street corners amongst other out-o'-works.

Behaviour like this is so characteristic of labouring men that we others expect it of them
as if it were especially their duty. Again and again I have noticed it. If a horse falls in
the street, ten chances to one it is some obscure labouring fellow who gets him up again. Whether
there is danger or no, in emergencies which demand readiness and disregard of comfort, the
common unskilled labourer is always to the fore. One summer night I had strolled out to the
top of the road here which slants down, over-arched by tall trees, past the Vicarage. At some
distance down, where there should have been such a depth of darkness under the trees, I was
surprised to see a little core of light, where five or six people stood around a bright lamp,
which one of them was holding. The scene looked so theatrical, glowing under the trees with
the summer night all round it, that, of course, I had to go down the hill and investigate it.
The group I joined was, it turned out, watching a bicyclist who lay unconscious in somebody's
arms, while a doctor fingered at a streaming wound in the man's forehead, and washed it, and
finally stitched it up.