All night Phormio watched his enemy and at dawn surprised him in mid-crossing. On seeing Phormio
advance to the attack, the Corinthian drew up his squadron in a defensive position, ranging
his vessels in concentric circles, bows outward, like the spokes of a wheel. In the center
of this formation he placed his transports, together with five of his largest triremes to assist
at any threatened spot. The formation suggests a leader of infantry rather than an admiral;
moreover, it revealed a fatal readiness to give up the offensive to an enemy force less than
half his own.

At any rate there was no lack of decision on the part of Phormio. He advanced rapidly in line
ahead formation, closed in near the enemy's prows as if he intended to strike at any moment
and circled round the line. The Corinthian triremes, having no headway and manned by inexperienced
rowers, began crowding back on one another as they tried to keep in position for the expected
attack. Then the same early morning wind that had embarrassed the Persian ships at Salamis
sprang up and added to the confusion of fouling ships and clashing oar blades. Choosing his
opening, Phormio flew the signal for attack and rammed one of the flagships of the Corinthian
fleet. The Athenians fell upon their enemy and almost at the first blow routed the entire Corinthian
force. In addition to those triremes that were sunk outright, twelve remained as prizes with
their full complement of crews, and the rest scattered in flight. Phormio returned in triumph
to Naupaktis with the loss of scarcely a man.

So humiliating a defeat had to be avenged, and Sparta organized a new expedition. This time
a fleet of 77 triremes was collected. Meanwhile Phormio had sent to Athens the news of his
victory together with an urgent plea for reënforcements. Unfortunately the great Pericles was
dying and the government had fallen into weak and unscrupulous hands. Consequently while 20
triremes were ordered to the support of Phormio, political intrigue succeeded in diverting
this squadron to carry out a futile expedition to Crete, and Phormio was left to contest the
control of the gulf against a fleet of 77 with nothing more than his original twenty.

It is interesting to observe what strategy Phormio adopted in this difficult situation. In
the campaign of Salamis, Themistocles chose the narrow waters of the strait as the safest position
for a fleet outnumbered by the enemy, because of the protection offered to the flanks by the
opposite shores. But Phormio, commanding a fleet about one-fourth that of his adversary, chose
the open sea. Apparently his decision was based on the fact that the superiority of the Athenian
ship lay in its greater speed and skill in maneuvering. Unable to cope with his adversary in
full force, he might by his superior mobility beat him in detail. Accordingly, he boldly took
the open sea.

For about a week the two fleets lay within sight of each other, with Phormio trying to draw
his enemy out of the narrows into open water and his adversary attempting to crowd him into
a corner against the share. Finally the Peloponnesian, realizing that Phormio would have to
defend his base, and hoping to force him to fight at a disadvantage, moved upon Naupaktis.
As this port was undefended, Phormio was compelled to return thither.

The Peloponnesian fleet advanced in line of four abreast with the Spartan admiral and the twenty
Spartan triremes--the best in the fleet--in the lead. At the signal from the admiral the column
swung "left into line" and bore down in line abreast upon the Athenians who were ranging along
the shore in line ahead. The object of the maneuver was to cut the Athenians off from the port
and crowd them upon the shore. The latter, however, developed such a burst of speed that eleven
of the twenty succeeded in reaching Naupaktis; the remaining nine drove ashore and their crews
escaped. Apparently the victory of the Spartan was as complete as it was easy. But while the
rest of the fleet busied itself with the deserted Athenian triremes on the share, the Spartan
squadron continued in the pursuit of the eleven Athenian ships that were heading for Naupaktis.
Ten of the eleven reached port and drew up in a position of defense. The eleventh, less speedy
than the rest, was being overhauled by the Spartan flagship which was pushing the pursuit far
in advance of the rest of the squadron. The captain of the Athenian ship, seeing this situation,
determined on a bold stroke. Instead of pushing on into the harbor he pulled round a merchant
ship that lay anchored at the mouth, and rammed his pursuer amidships, disabling her at a blow.
The Spartan admiral promptly killed himself and the rest of the ship's company were too panic
stricken to resist.

At this disaster the rest of the Spartan squadron hesitated, dropped oars or ran into shallow
water. Seeing his opportunity, Phormio dashed out of the harbor with his ten triremes and fell
upon the Spartans. In spite of the ridiculous disparity of forces, this handful of Athenian
ships pressed their attack so gallantly that they destroyed the Spartan advance wing and then,
catching the rest of the fleet in disorder, routed the main body as well. By nightfall Phormio
had rescued eight of the nine Athenian triremes that had fallen into the hands of the enemy
and sent the scattered remnants of the Peloponnesian fleet in full flight towards Corinth.
This battle of Naupaktis remains one of the most brilliant naval victories in history, a victory
won against overwhelming odds by quick decision and superb audacity.

Only a half century separates Salamis from the battle of the Corinthian Gulf and the battle
of Naupaktis, but during that period there had been a great advance in naval science.

As far as naval tactics are concerned, Salamis was merely a fight between two mobs of ships,
except that when opportunity offered, a vessel used her ram. Otherwise the only difference
from land fighting was the fact that the combatants stood on floating platforms. But in the
Peloponnesian war we see not only the birth of naval tactics but a very high development, especially
as revealed in these two victories of Phormio.

With the development of a naval science rose also a naval profession. At Salamis Themistocles
was a politician and Eurybiades was a soldier; it happened that they were made fleet commanders
for the emergency. Phormio was a naval officer by profession, and he won by genius combined
with superior efficiency in the personnel under his command. In his courage, resourcefulness,
in the spirit he inspired, and the high pitch of skill he developed among his officers and
men, he is an ideal type for every later age. Little is known of his life and character beyond
the story of these two exploits, but they are sufficient to give him the name of the first
great admiral of history.

His exploits illustrate, too, at the very outset of naval history, the vital truth that the
man counts more than the machine. In these later days, when the tendency is to measure naval
power merely by counting dreadnoughts, and to settle all hypothetical combats by the proportion
of strength at a given point on the game board, it is well to remember that the most overwhelming
victories have been won by the skill and audacity of a great leader, which overcame odds that
would be reckoned by the experts as insuperable.

The Peloponnesian war dragged on with varying fortunes for ten years. The Athenians were regularly
successful on the sea and unsuccessful on land. They seem to have laid an unwise dependence
on their navy for a state situated on the mainland with land communications open to the enemy.
They attempted to make an island of their state by withdrawing into the city of Athens the
entire population of Attica, leaving open to the invader the rest of the province. The repeated
ravaging of Attica by Peloponnesian armies weakened both the resources and the morale of the
Athenians, and the crowding of the inhabitants into the city resulted in frightful mortality
from the plague. At the same time the naval expeditions sent out to harry the coast of the
Peloponnesus accomplished nothing of real advantage.

In 421 a truce was agreed upon between Athens and Sparta, which was to last fifty years. Both
sides were sorely weakened by the protracted struggle and neither had gained any real advantage
over the other. Without waiting to recuperate from the losses of the war, Athens embarked in
415 on an ambitious plan of conquering Syracuse, and gaining all of Sicily as an Athenian colony.
In the event of success Athens would have a western outpost for the eventual control of the
Mediterranean, as she already had an eastern outpost in Ionia, which gave her control of the Ægean.

In the light of the event it is customary to refer to this expedition as the climax of folly,
and yet it is clear that if the commander in chief had not wasted time in interminable delays
the Athenians might easily have won their objective. At first the Syracusans felt hopeless
because of the large army and fleet dispatched against them, and the great naval prestige of
their enemy, but as delay succeeded delay, assistance arrived from Corinth and Sparta, and
the besieged citizens took heart. The siege dragged on for the greater part of two years, with
the offensive gradually slipping from the Athenians to the Syracusans, till finally the invaders
found their troops besieged on shore and their ships bottled up in the harbor by a line of
galleys anchored across the entrance. The Syracusans knew that they were no match for the Athenians
on the open sea, but with a fleet crowded into a harbor with no room for maneuvering, the problem
was not essentially different from that of fighting on land. They built a fleet of ships with
specially strengthened bows for ramming and erected catapults for throwing heavy stones on
the decks of the enemy. Meanwhile, the Athenian ships had deteriorated from lack of opportunity
to refit and their crews had been heavily reduced by disease. In a pitched battle between the
two fleets in the harbor, the Athenians were worsted. Shortly after as the Athenians were attempting
to break through the barrier and escape, they were again attacked by the Syracusans. There
was no room for maneuvering; the Athenian ships were jammed together in a mass in which all
advantage of numbers was lost. Moreover, against the deadly rain of huge stones the Athenians
had no defense whatever.

The result was an overwhelming victory for the Syracusans. Out of 110 triremes the Athenians
lost fifty. The besieging army went to pieces in attempting a retreat across the island, and
the whole expedition came to a tragic end. This defeat of the Athenian fleet in the harbor
of Syracuse was the ruin of Athens. When the news reached Greece, many of her dependencies
revolted, the Peloponnesian war had broken out anew, and she had no strength left to hold her
own. The deathblow was given when a Spartan admiral destroyed all that was left of the Athenian
navy at Ægospotami in the year 405. Thereafter Athens was merely a conquered province, permitted
to keep a fleet of only twelve ships, and watched by a garrison of Spartan soldiers in the citadel.

The downfall of Athenian sea power at Syracuse may be compared with the downfall of Persian
sea power at Salamis. Just as the latter prevented the spread of an Asiatic form of civilization
in Europe and gave Greek civilization a chance to develop, so the former put an end to the
extension of a strong Hellenic power in Italy and left opportunity for the rise of the civilization
of Rome.

REFERENCES

HISTORY OF GREECE, Ernst Curtius, 1874.
HISTORY OF GREECE, George Grote, 1856.
THE GREAT PERSIAN WAR, G. B. Grundy, 1901.
HISTORY OF THE PERSIAN WARS, Herodotus, ed. and transl. by Geo.
  Rawlinson, 1862.
HISTORY OF THE PELOPONNESIAN WAR, Thucydides, ed. and transl.
  by Jowett.

CHAPTER III

THE SEA POWER OF ROME

1. THE PUNIC WARS

When peoples have migrated in the past, they have frequently changed their habits to conform
to new topographical surroundings. We have seen that the Phœnicians, originally a nomadic people,
became a seafaring race because of the conditions of the country they settled in; and on the
other hand, at a later period, the Vikings who overran Normandy or Britain forsook the sea
and became farmers. The popular idea that a race follows the sea because of an "instinct in
the blood of the race" has little to stand on. When, however, the colonists from Phœnicia settled
Carthage and founded an empire, they continued the traditions of their ancestors and built
up their power on a foundation of ships. This was due to the conditions--topographical and
geographical--which surrounded them, and which were much like those of the mother country.
Carthage possessed the finest harbor on the coast of Africa, situated in the middle of the
Mediterranean, where all the trade routes crossed. To counteract these attractions of the sea
there was nothing but the arid and mountainous character of the interior. It was inevitable,
therefore, that the Carthaginians, like their ancestors, should build an empire of the sea.

As early as the sixth century B.C. Carthage had established her power so securely in the western
Mediterranean as to be able to set down definite limits beyond which Rome agreed not to go.
Thus the opening sentence of a treaty between the two nations in 509 B. C. ran as follows:

"Between the Romans and their allies and the Carthaginians and their allies there shall be
peace and alliance upon the conditions that neither the Romans nor their allies shall sail
beyond the Fair Promontory[1] unless compelled by bad weather or an enemy; and in case they
are forced beyond it they shall not be allowed to take or purchase anything except what is
barely necessary for refitting their vessels or for sacrifice, and they shall depart within
five days."[2]

[Footnote 1: A cape on the African coast about due north from Carthage.]

[Footnote 2: GENERAL HISTORY, Polybius, Bk. III, chap. 3.]

A second and a third treaty emphasized even mare strongly the Carthaginian dictatorship over
the Mediterranean.

It was inevitable, therefore, that as Rome expanded her interests should come in collision
with those of Carthage. The immediate causes of the Punic wars are of no consequence for our
purpose; the two powers had rival interests in Sicily, and the clash of these brought on the
war in the year 264 B.C. There followed a mortal struggle between Rome and Carthage that extended
through three distinct wars and a period of aver a hundred years.

When the two nations faced each other in arms, Carthage had the advantage of prestige and the
greatest navy in the world. Her weaknesses lay in the strife of political factions and the
mercenary character of her forces. Her officers were usually Carthaginians, but it was considered
beneath the dignity of a Carthaginian to be a private. The rank and file, therefore, were either
hired or pressed into service from the subject provinces. In the case of Xanthippus, who defeated
Regulus in the first Punic war, even the commanding officer was a Spartan mercenary. These
troops would do well so long as campaigns promised plunder but would became disaffected if
things went wrong.

The Romans, on the other hand, had only a small navy and no naval experience; their strength
lay in their legionaries. And in further contrast with their enemy they had none but Romans
in their forces, or allies who were proud of fighting on the side of Rome. Consequently they
fought in the spirit of intense patriotism which could stand the moral strain of defeat and
even disaster. On land there was no better fighter than the Roman soldier. At sea, however,
all the advantage lay with the Carthaginian, and it soon became clear that if the Romans were
to succeed they would have to learn to fight on water.

For the first three years Carthaginian fleets raided the coasts of Sicily and Italy with impunity.
Finally, in desperation, Rome set about the creation of a fleet, and the story is that a Carthaginian
quinquereme that had been wrecked an the coast was taken as a model, and while the ships were
building, rowers were trained in rowing machines set up an shore. The first contact with the
enemy was not encouraging. The new fleet, which was constructed in two months, consisted of
100 quinqueremes and 30 triremes. Seventeen of these while on a trial cruise were blockaded
in the harbor of Messina by twenty Carthaginian ships, and the Roman commander was obliged
to surrender after his crews had landed and escaped.

The next encounter was a different story. The Romans, realizing their ignorance of naval tactics
and their superiority in land fighting, determined to make the next naval battle as nearly
as possible like an engagement of infantry. Accordingly the ships were fitted with boarding
gangways with a huge hooked spike at the end, like the beak of a crow, which gave them their
name, "corvi" or "crows."[1]

[Footnote 1: The following is the description in Polybius of what they were like and how they
were worked.

"They [the Romans] erected on the prow of every vessel a round pillar of wood, of about twelve
feet in height, and of three palms breadth in diameter, with a pulley at the top. To this pillar
was fitted a kind of stage, eighteen feet in length and four feet broad, which was made ladder-wise,
of strong timbers laid across, and cramped together with iron: the pillar being received into
an oblong square, which was opened for that purpose, at the distance of six feet within the
end of the stage. On either side of the stage lengthways was a parapet, which reached just
above the knee. At the farthest end of this stage or ladder was a bar of iron, whose shape
was somewhat like a pestle; but it was sharpened at the bottom, or lower point; and on the
top of it was a ring. The whole appearance of this machine very much resembled those that are
used in grinding corn. To the ring just mentioned was fixed a rope, by which, with the help
of the pulley that was at the top of the pillar, they hoisted up the machines, and, as the
vessels of the enemy came near, let them fall upon them, sometimes on their prow, and sometimes
on their sides, as occasion best served. As the machine fell, it struck into the decks of the
enemy, and held them fast. In this situation, if the two vessels happened to lie side by side,
the Romans leaped on board from all parts of their ships at once. But in case that they were
joined only by the prow, they then entered two and two along the machine; the two foremost
extending their bucklers right before them to ward off the strokes that were aimed against
them in front; while those that followed rested the boss of their bucklers upon the top of
the parapet on either side, and thus covered both their flanks." GENERAL HISTORY, Book 1.]

