THE LIFE

OF

HORATIO LORD NELSON

BY ROBERT SOUTHEY (1774-1843)

     TO JOHN WILSON CROKER ESQ.,
     LL.D., F.R.S.,
     SECRETARY OF THE ADMIRALTY;
     WHO, BY THE OFFICIAL SITUATION WHICH HE SO ABLY FILLS,
     IS QUALIFIED TO APPRECIATE ITS HISTORICAL ACCURACY;
     AND WHO,
     AS A MEMBER OF THE REPUBLIC OF LETTERS,
     IS EQUALLY QUALIFIED TO DECIDE UPON ITS
     LITERARY MERITS,
     THIS WORK
     IS RESPECTFULLY INSCRIBED BY HIS FRIEND,
     THE AUTHOR

Many Lives of Nelson have been written; one is yet wanting, clear and concise enough to become
a manual for the young sailor, which he may carry about with him till he has treasured it up
for example in his memory and in his heart. In attempting such a work I shall write the eulogy
of our great national hero, for the best eulogy of NELSON is the faithful history of his actions,
and the best history must be that which shall relate them most perspicuously.

CHAPTER I

1758 - 1783

Nelson's Birth and Boyhood--He is entered on Board the RAISONABLE--Goes to the West Indies
in a Merchant-ship; then serves in the TRIUMPH--He sails in Captain Phipps' Voyage of Discovery--Goes
to the East Indies in the SEAHORSE, and returns in ill Health--Serves as acting Lieutenant
in the WORCESTER, and is made Lieutenant into the LOWESTOFFE, Commander into the BADGER Brig,
and Post into the HINCHINBROKE--Expedition against the Spanish Main--Sent to the North Seas
in the ALBERMARLE--Services during the American War.

HORATIO, son of Edmund and Catherine Nelson, was born September 29, 1758, in the parsonage-house
of Burnham Thorpe, a village in the county of Norfolk, of which his father was rector. His
mother was a daughter of Dr. Suckling, prebendary of Westminster, whose grandmother was sister
of Sir Robert Walpole, and this child was named after his godfather, the first Lord Walpole.
Mrs. Nelson died in 1767, leaving eight out of eleven children. Her brother, Captain Maurice
Suckling, of the navy visited the widower upon this event, and promised to take care of one
of the boys. Three years afterwards, when HORATIO was only twelve years of age, being at home
during the Christmas holidays, he read in the county newspaper that his uncle was appointed
to the RAISONNABLE, of sixty-four guns. "Do, William," said he to a brother who was a year
and a half older than himself, "write to my father, and tell him that I should like to go to
sea with uncle Maurice." Mr. Nelson was then at Bath, whither he had gone for the recovery
of his health: his circumstances were straitened, and he had no prospect of ever seeing them
bettered: he knew that it was the wish of providing for himself by which Horatio was chiefly
actuated, and did not oppose his resolution; he understood also the boy's character, and had
always said, that in whatever station he might be placed, he would climb if possible to the
very top of the tree. Captain Suckling was written to. "What," said he in his answer, "has
poor Horatio done, who is so weak, that he, above all the rest, should be sent to rough it
out at sea?--But let him come; and the first time we go into action, a cannon-ball may knock
off his head, and provide for him at once."

It is manifest from these words that Horatio was not the boy whom his uncle would have chosen
to bring up in his own profession. He was never of a strong body; and the ague, which at that
time was one of the most common diseases in England, had greatly reduced his strength; yet
he had already given proofs of that resolute heart and nobleness of mind which, during his
whole career of labour and of glory, so eminently distinguished him. When a mere child, he
strayed a-birds'-nesting from his grandmother's house in company with a cowboy: the dinner-hour
elapsed; he was absent, and could not be found; and the alarm of the family became very great,
for they apprehended that he might have been carried off by gipsies. At length, after search
had been made for him in various directions, he was discovered alone, sitting composedly by
the side of a brook which he could not get over. "I wonder, child," said the old lady when
she saw him, "that hunger and fear did not drive you home." "Fear! grandmama:" replied the
future hero, "I never saw fear:--What is it?" Once, after the winter holidays, when he and
his brother William had set off on horseback to return to school, they came back, because there
had been a fall of snow; and William, who did not much like the journey, said it was too deep
for them to venture on. "If that be the case," said the father, "you certainly shall not go;
but make another attempt, and I will leave it to your honour. If the road is dangerous you
may return: but remember, boys, I leave it to your honour!" The snow was deep enough to have
afforded them a reasonable excuse; but Horatio was not to be prevailed upon to turn back. "We
must go on," said he: "remember, brother, it was left to our honour!"--There were some fine
pears growing in the schoolmaster's garden, which the boys regarded as lawful booty, and in
the highest degree tempting; but the boldest among them were afraid to venture for the prize.
Horatio volunteered upon this service: he was lowered down at night from the bedroom window
by some sheets, plundered the tree, was drawn up with the pears, and then distributed them
among his school-fellows without reserving any for himself. "He only took them," he said, "because
every other boy was afraid."

Early on a cold and dark spring morning Mr. Nelson's servant arrived at this school, at North
Walsham, with the expected summons for Horatio to join his ship. The parting from his brother
William, who had been for so many years his playmate and bed-fellow, was a painful effort,
and was the beginning of those privations which are the sailor's lot through life. He accompanied
his father to London. The RAISONNABLE was lying in the Medway. He was put into the Chatham
stage, and on its arrival was set down with the rest of the passengers, and left to find his
way on board as he could. After wandering about in the cold, without being able to reach the
ship, an officer observed the forlorn appearance of the boy, questioned him; and happening
to be acquainted with his uncle, took him home and gave him some refreshments. When he got
on board, Captain Suckling was not in the ship, nor had any person been apprised of the boy's
coming. He paced the deck the whole remainder of the day without being noticed by any one;
and it was not till the second day that somebody, as he expressed it, "took compassion on him."
The pain which is felt when we are first transplanted from our native soil--when the living
branch is cut from the parent tree is one of the most poignant which we have to endure through
life. There are after-griefs which wound more deeply, which leave behind them scars never to
be effaced, which bruise the spirit, and sometimes break the heart; but never do we feel so
keenly the want of love, the necessity of being loved, and the sense of utter desertion, as
when we first leave the haven of home, and are, as it were, pushed off upon the stream of life.
Added to these feelings, the sea-boy has to endure physical hardships, and the privation of
every comfort, even of sleep. Nelson had a feeble body and an affectionate heart, and he remembered
through life his first days of wretchedness in the service.

The RAISONNABLE having been commissioned on account of the dispute respecting the Falkland
Islands, was paid off as soon as the difference with the court of Spain was accommodated, and
Captain Suckling was removed to the TRIUMPH, seventy-four, then stationed as a guard-ship in
the Thames. This was considered as too inactive a life for a boy, and Nelson was therefore
sent a voyage to the West Indies in a merchant-ship, commanded by Mr. John Rathbone, an excellent
seaman, who had served as master's mate under Captain Suckling in the Dreadnought. He returned
a practical seaman, but with a hatred of the king's service, and a saying then common among
the sailors--"Aft the most honour; forward the better man." Rathbone had probably been disappointed
and disgusted in the navy; and, with no unfriendly intentions, warned Nelson against a profession
which he himself had found hopeless. His uncle received him on board the TRIUMPH on his return,
and discovering his dislike to the navy, took the best means of reconciling him to it. He held
it out as a reward that, if he attended well to his navigation, he should go in the cutter
and decked long-boat, which was attached to the commanding-officer's ship at Chatham. Thus
he became a good pilot for vessels of that description from Chatham to the Tower, and down
the Swin Channel to the North Foreland, and acquired a confidence among rocks and sands of
which he often felt the value.

Nelson had not been many months on board the TRIUMPH, when his love of enterprise was excited
by hearing that two ships were fitting out for a voyage of discovery towards the North Pole.
In consequence of the difficulties which were expected on such a service, these vessels were
to take out effective men instead of the usual number of boys. This, however, did not deter
him from soliciting to be received, and, by his uncle's interest, he was admitted as coxswain
under Captain Lutwidge, second in command. The voyage was undertaken in compliance with an
application from the Royal Society. The Hon. Captain Constantine John Phipps, eldest son of
Lord Mulgrave, volunteered his services. The RACEHORSE and CARCASS bombs were selected as the
strongest ships, and, therefore, best adapted for such a voyage; and they were taken into dock
and strengthened, to render them as secure as possible against the ice. Two masters of Greenlandmen
were employed as pilots for each ship. No expedition was ever more carefully fitted out; and
the First Lord of the Admiralty, Lord Sandwich, with a laudable solicitude, went on board himself,
before their departure, to see that everything had been completed to the wish of the officers.
The ships were provided with a simple and excellent apparatus for distilling fresh from salt
water, the invention of Dr. Irving, who accompanied the expedition. It consisted merely in
fitting a tube to the ship's kettle, and applying a wet mop to the surface as the vapour was
passing. By these means, from thirty-four to forty gallons were produced every day.

They sailed from the Nore on the 4th of June. On the 6th of July they were in latitude 79d
56m 39s; longitude 9d 43m 30s E. The next day, about the place where most of the old discoverers
had been stopped, the RACEHORSE was beset with ice; but they hove her through with ice-anchors.
Captain Phipps continued ranging along the ice, northward and westward, till the 24th; he then
tried to the eastward. On the 30th he was in latitude 80d 13m; longitude 18d 48m E. among the
islands and in the ice, with no appearance of an opening for the ships. The weather was exceedingly
fine, mild, and unusually clear. Here they were becalmed in a large bay, with three apparent
openings between the islands which formed it; but everywhere, as far as they could see, surrounded
with ice. There was not a breath of air, the water was perfectly smooth, the ice covered with
snow, low and even, except a few broken pieces near the edge; and the pools of water in the
middle of the ice-fields just crusted over with young ice. On the next day the ice closed upon
them, and no opening was to be seen anywhere, except a hole, or lake as it might be called,
of about a mile and a half in circumference, where the ships lay fast to the ice with their
ice-anchors. From these ice-fields they filled their casks with water, which was very pure
and soft. The men were playing on the ice all day; but the Greenland pilots, who were further
than they had ever been before, and considered that the season was far advancing, were alarmed
at being thus beset.

The next day there was not the smallest opening; the ships were within less than two lengths
of each other, separated by ice, and neither having room to turn. The ice, which the day before
had been flat and almost level with the water's edge, was now in many places forced higher
than the mainyard by the pieces squeezing together. A day of thick fog followed: it was succeeded
by clear weather; but the passage by which the ships had entered from the westward was closed,
and no open water was in sight, either in that or any other quarter. By the pilots' advice
the men were set to cut a passage, and warp through the small openings to the westward. They
sawed through pieces of ice twelve feet thick; and this labour continued the whole day, during
which their utmost efforts did not move the ships above three hundred yards; while they were
driven, together with the ice, far to the N.E. and E. by the current. Sometimes a field of
several acres square would be lifted up between two larger islands, and incorporated with them;
and thus these larger pieces continued to grow by aggregation. Another day passed, and there
seemed no probability of getting the ships out without a strong E. or N.E. wind. The season
was far advanced, and every hour lessened the chance of extricating themselves. Young as he
was, Nelson was appointed to command one of the boats which were sent out to explore a passage
into the open water. It was the means of saving a boat belonging to the RACEHORSE from a singular
but imminent danger. Some of the officers had fired at and wounded a walrus. As no other animal
has so human-like an expression in its countenance, so also is there none that seems to possess
more of the passions of humanity. The wounded animal dived immediately, and brought up a number
of its companions; and they all joined in an attack upon the boat. They wrested an oar from
one of the men; and it was with the utmost difficulty that the crew could prevent them from
staving or upsetting her, till the CARCASS's boat came up; and the walruses, finding their
enemies thus reinforced, dispersed. Young Nelson exposed himself in a more daring manner. One
night, during the mid-watch, he stole from the ship with one of his comrades, taking advantage
of a rising fog, and set off over the ice in pursuit of a bear. It was not long before they
were missed. The fog thickened, and Captain Lutwidge and his officers became exceedingly alarmed
for their safety. Between three and four in the morning the weather cleared, and the two adventurers
were seen, at a considerable distance from the ship, attacking a huge bear. The signal for
them to return was immediately made; Nelson's comrade called upon him to obey it, but in vain;
his musket had flashed in the pan; their ammunition was expended; and a chasm in the ice, which
divided him from the bear, probably preserved his life. "Never mind," he cried; "do but let
me get a blow at this devil with the butt-end of my musket, and we shall have him." Captain
Lutwidge, however, seeing his danger, fired a gun, which had the desired effect of frightening
the beast; and the boy then returned, somewhat afraid of the consequences of his trespass.
The captain reprimanded him sternly for conduct so unworthy of the office which he filled,
and desired to know what motive he could have for hunting a bear. "Sir," said he, pouting his
lip, as he was wont to do when agitated, "I wished to kill the bear, that I might carry the
skin to my father."

A party were now sent to an island, about twelve miles off (named Walden's Island in the charts,
from the midshipman who was intrusted with this service), to see where the open water lay.
They came back with information that the ice, though close all about them, was open to the
westward, round the point by which they came in. They said also, that upon the island they
had had a fresh east wind. This intelligence considerably abated the hopes of the crew; for
where they lay it had been almost calm, and their main dependence had been upon the effect
of an easterly wind in clearing the bay. There was but one alternative: either to wait the
event of the weather upon the ships, or to betake themselves to the boats. The likelihood that
it might be necessary to sacrifice the ships had been foreseen. The boats accordingly were
adapted, both in number and size, to transport, in case of emergency, the whole crew; and there
were Dutch whalers upon the coast, in which they could all be conveyed to Europe. As for wintering
where they were, that dreadful experiment had been already tried too often. No time was to
be lost; the ships had driven into shoal water, having but fourteen fathoms. Should they, or
the ice to which they were fast, take the ground, they must inevitably be lost; and at this
time they were driving fast toward some rocks on the N.E. Captain Phipps sent for the officers
of both ships, and told them his intention of preparing the boats for going away. They were
immediately hoisted out, and the fitting begun. Canvas bread-bags were made, in case it should
be necessary suddenly to desert the vessels; and men were sent with the lead and line to N.
and E., to sound wherever they found cracks in the ice, that they might have notice before
the ice took the ground; for in that case the ships must instantly have been crushed or overset.

On the 7th of August they began to haul the boats over the ice, Nelson having command of a
four-oared cutter. The men behaved excellently well, like true British seamen: they seemed
reconciled to the thought of leaving the ships, and had full confidence in their officers.
About noon, the ice appeared rather more open near the vessels; and as the wind was easterly,
though there was but little of it, the sails were set, and they got about a mile to the westward.
They moved very slowly, and were not now nearly so far to the westward as when they were first
beset. However, all sail was kept upon them, to force them through whenever the ice slacked
the least. Whatever exertions were made, it could not be possible to get the boats to the water's
edge before the 14th; and if the situation of the ships should not alter by that time, it would
not be justifiable to stay longer by them. The commander therefore resolved to carry on both
attempts together, moving the boats constantly, and taking every opportunity of getting the
ships through. A party was sent out next day to the westward to examine the state of the ice:
they returned with tidings that it was very heavy and close, consisting chiefly of large fields.
The ships, however, moved something, and the ice itself was drifting westward. There was a
thick fog, so that it was impossible to ascertain what advantage had been gained. It continued
on the 9th; but the ships were moved a little through some very small openings: the mist cleared
off in the afternoon, and it was then perceived that they had driven much more than could have
been expected to the westward, and that the ice itself had driven still further. In the course
of the day they got past the boats, and took them on board again. On the morrow the wind sprang
up to the N.N.E. All sail was set, and the ships forced their way through a great deal of very
heavy ice. They frequently struck, and with such force that one stroke broke the shank of the
RACEHORSE's best bower-anchor, but the vessels made way; and by noon they had cleared the ice,
and were out at sea. The next day they anchored in Smeerenberg Harbour, close to that island
of which the westernmost point is called Hakluyt's Headland, in honour of the great promoter
and compiler of our English voyages of discovery.

Here they remained a few days, that the men might rest after their fatigue. No insect was to
be seen in this dreary country, nor any species of reptile--not even the common earth-worm.
Large bodies of ice, called icebergs, filled up the valleys between high mountains, so dark
as, when contrasted with the snow, to appear black. The colour of the ice was a lively light
green. Opposite to the place where they fixed their observatory was one of these icebergs,
above three hundred feet high; its side toward the sea was nearly perpendicular, and a stream
of water issued from it. Large pieces frequently broke off and rolled down into the sea. There
was no thunder nor lightning during the whole time they were in these latitudes. The sky was
generally loaded with hard white clouds, from which it was never entirely free even in the
clearest weather. They always knew when they were approaching the ice long before they saw
it, by a bright appearance near the horizon, which the Greenlandmen called the blink of the
ice. The season was now so far advanced that nothing more could have been attempted, if indeed
anything had been left untried; but the summer had been unusually favourable, and they had
carefully surveyed the wall of ice, extending for more than twenty degrees between the latitudes
of 80d and 81d, without the smallest appearance of any opening.

The ships were paid off shortly after their return to England; and Nelson was then placed by
his uncle with Captain Farmer, in the SEAHORSE, of twenty guns, then going out to the East
Indies in the squadron under Sir Edward Hughes. He was stationed in the foretop at watch and
watch. His good conduct attracted the attention of the master (afterwards Captain Surridge),
in whose watch he was; and upon his recommendation the captain rated him as midshipman. At
this time his countenance was florid, and his appearance rather stout and athletic; but when
he had been about eighteen months in India, he felt the effects of that climate, so perilous
to European constitutions. The disease baffled all power of medicine; he was reduced almost
to a skeleton; the use of his limbs was for some time entirely lost; and the only hope that
remained was from a voyage home. Accordingly he was brought home by Captain Pigot, in the DOLPHIN;
and had it not been for the attentive and careful kindness of that officer on the way, Nelson
would never have lived to reach his native shores. He had formed an acquaintance with Sir Charles
Pole, Sir Thomas Troubridge, and other distinguished officers, then, like himself, beginning
their career: he had left them pursuing that career in full enjoyment of health and hope, and
was returning, from a country in which all things were to him new and interesting, with a body
broken down by sickness, and spirits which had sunk with his strength. Long afterwards, when
the name of Nelson was known as widely as that of England itself, he spoke of the feelings
which he at this time endured. "I felt impressed," said he, "with a feeling that I should never
rise in my profession. My mind was staggered with a view of the difficulties I had to surmount
and the little interest I possessed. I could discover no means of reaching the object of my
ambition. After a long and gloomy reverie, in which I almost wished myself overboard, a sudden
glow of patriotism was kindled within me, and presented my king and country as my patron. 'Well
then,' I exclaimed, 'I will be a hero! and, confiding in Providence, I will brave every danger!'"

