From this place they endeavoured to force a passage into Cilicia. Now   21 the entrance was
by an exceedingly steep cart-road, impracticable for an army in face of a resisting force;
and report said that Syennesis was on the summit of the pass guarding the approach. Accordingly
they halted a day in the plain; but next day came a messenger informing them that Syenesis
had left the pass; doubtless, after perceiving that Menon's army was already in Cilicia on
his own side of the mountains; and he had further been informed that ships of war, belonging
to the Lacedaemonians and to Cyrus himself, with Tamos on board as admiral, were sailing round
from Ionia to Cilicia. Whatever the reason might be, Cyrus made his way up into the hills without
let or hindrance, and came in sight of the tents where the Cilicians were on guard. From that
point he descended gradually into a large and beautiful plain country, well watered, and thickly
covered with trees of all sorts and vines. This plain produces sesame plentifully, as also
panic and millet and barley and wheat; and it is shut in on all sides by a steep and lofty
wall of mountains from sea to sea. Descending through this plain country, he advanced four
stages--twenty-five parasangs--to Tarsus, a large and prosperous city of Cilicia. Here stood
the palace of Syennesis, the king of the country; and through the middle of the city flows
a river called the Cydnus, two hundred feet broad. They found that the city had been deserted
by its inhabitants, who had betaken themselves, with Syennesis, to a strong place on the hills.
All had gone, except the tavern-keepers. The sea-board inhabitants of Soli and Issi also remained.
Now Epyaxa, Syennesis's queen, had reached Tarsus five days in advance of Cyrus. During their
passage over the mountains into the plain, two companies of Menon's army were lost. Some said
they had been cut down by the Cilicians, while engaged on some pillaging affair; another account
was that they had been left behind, and being unable to overtake the main body, or discover
the route, had gone astray and perished. However it was, they numbered one hundred hoplites;
and when the rest arrived, being in a fury at the destruction of their fellow soldiers, they
vented their spleen by pillaging the city of Tarsus and the palace to boot. Now when Cyrus
had marched into the city, he sent for Syennesis to come to him; but    26 the latter replied
that he had never yet put himself into the hands of any one who was his superior, nor was he
willing to accede to the proposal of Cyrus now; until, in the end, his wife persuaded him,
and he accepted pledges of good faith. After this they met, and Syennesis gave Cyrus large
sums in aid of his army; while Cyrus presented him with the customary royal gifts--to wit,
a horse with a gold bit, a necklace of gold, a gold bracelet, and a gold scimitar, a Persian
dress, and lastly, the exemption of his territory from further pillage, with the privilege
of taking back the slaves that had been seized, wherever they might chance to come upon them.

III

At Tarsus Cyrus and his army halted for twenty days; the soldiers       1 refusing to advance
further, since the suspicion ripened in their minds, that the expedition was in reality directed
against the king; and as they insisted, they had not engaged their services for that object.
Clearchus set the example of trying to force his men to continue their march; but he had no
sooner started at the head of his troops than they began to pelt him and his baggage train,
and Clearchus had a narrow escape of being stoned to death there and then. Later on, when he
perceived that force was useless, he summoned an assembly of his own men; and for a long while
he stood and wept, while the men gazed in silent astonishment. At last he spoke as follows:
"Fellow soldiers, do not marvel that I am sorely distressed on account of the present troubles.
Cyrus has been no ordinary friend to me. When I was in banishment he honoured me in various
ways, and made me also a present of ten thousand darics. These I accepted, but not to lay them
up for myself for private use; not to squander them in pleasure, but to expend them on yourselves.
And, first of all, I went to war with the Thracians, and with you to aid, I wreaked vengeance
on them in behalf of Hellas; driving them out of the Chersonese, when they wanted to deprive
its Hellenic inhabitants of their lands. But as soon as Cyrus summoned me, I took you with
me and set out, so that, if my benefactor had any need of me, I might requite him for the good
treatment I myself had received at his hands.... But since you are not minded to continue the
march with me, one of two things is left to  5 me to do; either I must renounce you for the
sake of my friendship with Cyrus, or I must go with you at the cost of deceiving him. Whether
I am about to do right or not, I cannot say, but I choose yourselves; and, whatever betide,
I mean to share your fate. Never shall it be said of me by any one that, having led Greek troops
against the barbarians (1), I betrayed the Hellenes, and chose the friendship of the barbarian.
No! since you do not choose to obey and follow me, I will follow after you. Whatever betide,
I will share your fate. I look upon you as my country, my friends, my allies; with you I think
I shall be honoured, wherever I be; without you I do not see how I can help a friend or hurt
a foe. My decision is taken. Wherever you go, I go also."

 (1) Lit. "into the country of the barbarian."

Such were his words. But the soldiers, not only his own, but the rest also, when they heard
what he said, and how he had scouted the idea of going up to the great king's palace (2), expressed
their approval; and more than two thousand men deserted Xenias and Pasion, and took their arms
and baggage-train, and came and encamped with Clearchus. But Cyrus, in despair and vexation
at this turn of affairs, sent for Clearchus. He refused to come; but, without the knowledge
of the soldiers, sent a message to Cyrus, bidding him keep a good heart, for that all would
arrange itself in the right way; and bade him keep on sending for him, whilst he himself refused
to go. After that he got together his own men, with those who had joined him, and of the rest
any who chose to come, and spoke as follows: "Fellow soldiers, it is clear that the relations
of Cyrus to us are identical with ours to him. We are no longer his soldiers, since we have
ceased to follow him; and he, on his side, is no longer our paymaster. He, however, no doubt
considers himself wronged by us; and though he goes on sending for me, I cannot bring myself
to go to him: for two reasons, chiefly from a sense of shame, for I am forced to admit to myself
that I have altogether deceived him; but partly, too, because I am afraid of his seizing me
and inflicting a penalty on the wrongs which he conceives    11 that I have done him. In my
opinion, then, this is no time for us to go to sleep and forget all about ourselves, rather
it is high time to deliberate on our next move; and as long as we do remain here, we had better
bethink us how we are to abide in security; or, if we are resolved to turn our backs at once,
what will be the safest means of retreat; and, further, how we are to procure supplies, for
without supplies there is no profit whatsoever in the general or the private soldier. The man
with whom we have to deal is an excellent friend to his friends, but a very dangerous enemy
to his foes. And he is backed by a force of infantry and cavalry and ships such as we all alike
very well see and know, since we can hardly be said to have posted ourselves at any great distance
from him. If, then, any one has a suggestion to make, now is the time to speak." With these
words he ceased.

 (2) Or "how he insisted that he was not going up."

Then various speakers stood up; some of their own motion to propound their views; others inspired
by Clearchus to dilate on the hopeless difficulty of either staying, or going back without
the goodwill of Cyrus. One of these, in particular, with a make-believe of anxiety to commence
the homeward march without further pause, called upon them instantly to choose other generals,
if Clearchus were not himself prepared to lead them back: "Let them at once purchase supplies"
(the market being in the heart of the Asiatic camp), "let them pack up their baggage: let them,"
he added, "go to Cyrus and ask for some ships in order to return by sea: if he refused to give
them ships, let them demand of him a guide to lead them back through a friendly district; and
if he would not so much as give them a guide, they could but put themselves, without more ado,
in marching order, and send on a detachment to occupy the pass--before Cyrus and the Cilicians,
whose property," the speaker added, "we have so plentifully pillaged, can anticipate us." Such
were the remarks of that speaker; he was followed by Clearchus, who merely said: "As to my
acting personally as general at this season, pray do not propose it: I can see numerous obstacles
to my doing so. Obedience, in the fullest, I can render to the man of   15 your choice, that
is another matter: and you shall see and know that I can play my part, under command, with
the best of you."

After Clearchus another spokesman stood up, and proceeded to point out the simplicity of the
speaker, who proposed to ask for vessels, just as if Cyrus were minded to renounce the expedition
and sail back again. "And let me further point out," he said, "what a simple-minded notion
it is to beg a guide of the very man whose designs we are marring. If we can trust any guide
whom Cyrus may vouchsafe to us, why not order Cyrus at once to occupy the pass on our behoof?
For my part, I should think twice before I set foot on any ships that he might give us, for
fear lest he should sink them with his men-of-war; and I should equally hesitate to follow
any guide of his: he might lead us into some place out of which we should find it impossible
to escape. I should much prefer, if I am to return home against the will of Cyrus at all, to
give him the slip, and so begone: which indeed is impossible. But these schemes are simply
nonsensical. My proposal is that a deputation of fit persons, with Clearchus, should go to
Cyrus: let them go to Cyrus and ask him: what use he proposes to make of us? and if the business
is at all similar to that on which he once before employed a body of foreigners--let us by
all means follow: let us show that we are the equals of those who accompanied him on his much
up formerly. But if the design should turn out to be of larger import than the former one--involving
more toil and more danger--we should ask him, either to give us good reasons for following
his lead, or else consent to send us away into a friendly country. In this way, whether we
follow him, we shall do so as friends, and with heart and soul, or whether we go back, we shall
do so in security. The answer to this shall be reported to us here, and when we have heard
it, we will advise as to our best course."

This resolution was carried, and they chose and sent a deputation with Clearchus, who put to
Cyrus the questions which had been agreed upon by the army. Cyrus replied as follows: That
he had received news that Abrocomas, an enemy of his, was posted on the Euphrates, twelve stages
20 off; his object was to march against this aforesaid Abrocomas: and if he were still there,
he wished to inflict punishment on him, "or if he be fled" (so the reply concluded), "we will
there deliberate on the best course." The deputation received the answer and reported it to
the soldiers. The suspicion that he was leading them against the king was not dispelled; but
it seemed best to follow him. They only demanded an increase of pay, and Cyrus promised to
give them half as much again as they had hitherto received--that is to say, a daric and a half
a month to each man, instead of a daric. Was he really leading them to attack the king? Not
even at this moment was any one apprised of the fact, at any rate in any open and public manner.

IV

From this point he marched two stages--ten parasangs--to the river      1 Psarus, which is
two hundred feet broad, and from the Psarus he marched a single stage--five parasangs--to Issi,
the last city in Cilicia. It lies on the seaboard--a prosperous, large and flourishing town.
Here they halted three days, and here Cyrus was joined by his fleet. There were thirty-five
ships from Peloponnesus, with the Lacedaemonian admiral Pythagoras on board. These had been
piloted from Ephesus by Tamos the Egyptian, who himself had another fleet of twenty-five ships
belonging to Cyrus. These had formed Tamos's blockading squadron at Miletus, when that city
sided with Tissaphernes; he had also used them in other military services rendered to Cyrus
in his operations against that satrap. There was a third officer on board the fleet, the Lacedaemonian
Cheirisophus, who had been sent for by Cyrus, and had brought with him seven hundred hoplites,
over whom he was to act as general in the service of Cyrus. The fleet lay at anchor opposite
Cyrus's tent. Here too another reinforcement presented itself. This was a body of four hundred
hoplites, Hellenic mercenaries in the service of Abrocomas, who         3 deserted him for
Cyrus, and joined in the campaign against the king.

From Issi, he marched a single stage--five parasangs--to the gates of Cilicia and Syria. This
was a double fortress: the inner and nearer one, which protects Cilicia, was held by Syennesis
and a garrison of Cilicians; the outer and further one, protecting Syria, was reported to be
garrisoned by a body of the king's troops. Through the gap between the two fortresses flows
a river named the Carsus, which is a hundred feet broad, and the whole space between was scarcely
more than six hundred yards. To force a passage here would be impossible, so narrow was the
pass itself, with the fortification walls stretching down to the sea, and precipitous rocks
above; while both fortresses were furnished with gates. It was the existence of this pass which
had induced Cyrus to send for the fleet, so as to enable him to lead a body of hoplites inside
and outside the gates; and so to force a passage through the enemy, if he were guarding the
Syrian gate, as he fully expected to find Abrocomas doing with a large army. This, however,
Abrocomas had not done; but as soon as he learnt that Cyrus was in Cilicia, he had turned round
and made his exit from Phoenicia, to join the king with an army amounting, as report said,
to three hundred thousand men.

From this point Cyrus pursued his march, through Syria a single stage--five parasangs--to Myriandus,
a city inhabited by Phoenicians, on the sea-coast. This was a commercial port, and numerous
merchant vessels were riding at anchor in the harbour. Here they halted seven days, and here
Xenias the Arcadian general, and Pasion the Megarian got on board a trader, and having stowed
away their most valuable effects, set sail for home; most people explained the act as the outcome
of a fit of jealousy, because Cyrus had allowed Clearchus to retain their men, who had deserted
to him, in hopes of returning to Hellas instead of marching against the king; when the two
had so vanished, a rumour spread that Cyrus was after them with some ships of war, and some
hoped the cowards might be caught, others pitied them, if that should be their fate.

But Cyrus summoned the generals and addressed them: "Xenias and         8 Pasion," he said,
"have taken leave of us; but they need not flatter themselves that in so doing they have stolen
into hiding. I know where they are gone; nor will they owe their escape to speed; I have men-of-war
to capture their craft, if I like. But heaven help me! if I mean to pursue them: never shall
it be said of me, that I turn people to account as long as they stay with me, but as soon as
they are minded to be off, I seize and maltreat them, and strip them of their wealth. Not so!
let them go with the consciousness that our behaviour to them is better than theirs to us.
And yet I have their children and wives safe under lock and key in Tralles; but they shall
not be deprived even of these. They shall receive them back in return for their former goodness
to me." So he spoke, and the Hellenes, even those who had been out of heart at the thought
of marching up the country, when they heard of the nobleness of Cyrus, were happier and more
eager to follow him on his path.

After this Cyrus marched onwards four stages--twenty parasangs--to the river Chalus. That river
is a hundred feet broad, and is stocked with tame fish which the Syrians regard as gods, and
will not suffer to be injured--and so too the pigeons of the place. The villages in which they
encamped belonged to Parysatis, as part of her girdle money (1). From this point he marched
on five stages--thirty parasangs--to the sources of the river Dardas, which is a hundred feet
broad. Here stood the palace of Belesys, the ruler of Syria, with its park--which was a very
large and beautiful one, and full of the products of all the seasons in their course. But Cyrus
cut down the park and burnt the palace. Thence he marched on three stages--fifteen parasangs--to
the river Euphrates, which is nearly half a mile broad. A large and         11 flourishing
city, named Thapsacus, stands on its banks. Here they halted five days, and here Cyrus sent
for the generals of the Hellenes, and told them that the advance was now to be upon Babylon,
against the great king; he bade them communicate this information to the soldiers and persuade
them to follow. The generals called an assembly, and announced the news to the soldiers. The
latter were indignant and angry with the generals, accusing them of having kept secret what
they had long known; and refused to go, unless such a bribe of money were given them as had
been given to their predecessors, when they went up with Cyrus to the court of his father,
not as now to fight a battle, but on a peaceful errand--the visit of a son to his father by
invitation. The demand was reported to Cyrus by the generals, and he undertook to give each
man five silver minae as soon as Babylon was reached, and their pay in full, until he had safely
conveyed them back to Ionia again. In this manner the Hellenic force were persuaded--that is
to say, the majority of them. Menon, indeed, before it was clear what the rest of the soldiers
would do--whether, in fact they would follow Cyrus or not--collected his own troops apart and
made them the following speech; "Men," he said, "if you will listen to me, there is a method
by which, without risk or toil, you may win the special favour of Cyrus beyond the rest of
the soldiers. You ask what it is I would have you to do? I will tell you. Cyrus at this instant
is begging the Hellenes to follow him to attack the king. I say then: Cross the Euphrates at
once, before it is clear what answer the rest will make; if they vote in favour of following,
you will get the credit of having set the example, and Cyrus will be grateful to you. He will
look upon you as being the heartiest in his cause; he will repay, as of all others he best
knows how; while, if the rest vote against crossing, we shall go back again; but as the sole
adherents, whose fidelity he can altogether trust, it is you whom Cyrus will turn to account,
as commandants of garrisons or captains of companies. You need only ask him for whatever you
want, and you will get it from him, as being the friends of Cyrus."

 (1) Cf. Plat. "Alcib." i. 123 B. "Why, I have been informed by a
    credible person, who went up to the king (at Susa), that he passed
    through a large tract of excellent land, extending for nearly a
    day's journey, which the people of the country called the queen's
    girdle, and another which they called her veil," etc. Olympiodorus
    and the Scholiast both think that Plato here refers to Xenophon
    and this passage of the "Anabasis." Grote thinks it very probable
    that Plato had in his mind Xenophon (either his "Anabasis" or
    personal communications with him).

The men heard and obeyed, and before the rest had given their answer, they were already across.
But when Cyrus perceived that Menon's troops  16 had crossed, he was well pleased, and he sent
Glus to the division in question, with this message: "Soldiers, accept my thanks at present;
eventually you shall thank me. I will see to that, or my name is not Cyrus." The soldiers therefore
could not but pray heartily for his success; so high their hopes ran. But to Menon, it was
said, he sent gifts with lordly liberality. This done, Cyrus proceeded to cross; and in his
wake followed the rest of the armament to a man. As they forded, never a man was wetted above
the chest: nor ever until this moment, said the men of Thapascus, had the river been so crossed
on foot, boats had always been required; but these, at the present time, Abrocomas, in his
desire to hinder Cyrus from crossing, had been at pains to burn. Thus the passage was looked
upon as a thing miraculous; the river had manifestly retired before the face of Cyrus, like
a courtier bowing to his future king. From this place he continued his march through Syria
nine stages--fifty parasangs--and they reached the river Araxes. Here were several villages
full of corn and wine; in which they halted three days, and provisioned the army.

V

Thence he marched on through Arabia, keeping the Euphrates on the       1 right, five desert
stages--thirty-five parasangs. In this region the ground was one long level plain, stretching
far and wide like the sea, full of absinth; whilst all the other vegetation, whether wood or
reed, was sweet scented like spice or sweet herb; there were no trees; but there was wild game
of all kinds--wild asses in greatest abundance, with plenty of ostriches; besides these, there
were bustards and antelopes. These creatures were occasionally chased by the cavalry. The asses,
when pursued, would run forward a space, and then stand still--their pace being much swifter
than that of horses; and as soon as the horses came close, they went through the same performance.
The only way to catch them was for the riders to post themselves at intervals, and to hunt
them in relays, as it were. The flesh of those they captured was not unlike venison, only more
tender. No one was lucky enough to capture an ostrich. Some of the troopers did give chase,
but it had soon to be abandoned; for the bird, in its effort to escape, speedily put a long
interval between itself and its   3 pursuers; plying its legs at full speed, and using its
wings the while like a sail. The bustards were not so hard to catch when started suddenly;
for they only take short flights, like partridges, and are soon tired. Their flesh is delicious.

As the army wended its way through this region, they reached the river Mascas, which is one
hundred feet in breadth. Here stood a big deserted city called Corsote, almost literally environed
by the stream, which flows round it in a circle. Here they halted three days and provisioned
themselves. Thence they continued their march thirteen desert stages--ninety parasangs--with
the Euphrates still on their right, until they reached the Gates. On these marches several
of the baggage animals perished of hunger, for there was neither grass nor green herb, or tree
of any sort; but the country throughout was barren. The inhabitants make their living by quarrying
millstones on the river banks, which they work up and take to Babylon and sell, purchasing
corn in exchange for their goods. Corn failed the army, and was not to be got for money, except
in the Lydian market open in Cyrus's Asiatic army; where a kapithe of wheat or barley cost
four shekels; the shekel being equal to seven and a half Attic obols, whilst the kapithe is
the equivalent of two Attic choeneces (1), dry measure, so that the soldiers subsisted on meat
alone for the whole period. Some of the stages were very long, whenever they had to push on
to find water or fodder; and once they found themselves involved in a narrow way, where the
deep clay presented an obstacle to the progress of the wagons. Cyrus, with the nobles about
him, halted to superintend the operation, and ordered Glus and Pigres to take a body of barbarians
and to help in extricating the wagons. As they seemed to be slow about the business, he turned
round angrily to the Persian nobles and bade them lend a hand to force the wagons out. Then,
if ever, what goes to constitute one branch of good discipline, was to be witnessed. Each of
those addressed, just where he chanced to be         8 standing, threw off his purple cloak,
and flung himself into the work with as much eagerness as if it had been a charge for victory.
Down a steep hill side they flew, with their costly tunics and embroidered trousers--some with
the circlets round their necks, and bracelets on their arms--in an instant, they had sprung
into the miry clay, and in less time than one could have conceived, they had landed the wagons
safe on terra firma.

 (1) The choenix = about 1 quart (or, according to others, 1 1/2 pint).
    It was the minimum allowance of corn for a man, say a slave, per
    diem. The Spartan was allowed at the public table 2 choenices a
    day.

Altogether it was plain that Cyrus was bent on pressing on the march, and averse to stoppages,
except where he halted for the sake of provisioning or some other necessary object; being convinced
that the more rapidly he advanced, the less prepared for battle would he find the king; while
the slower his own progress, the larger would be the hostile army which he would find collected.
Indeed, the attentive observer could see, at a glance, that if the king's empire was strong
in its extent of territory and the number of inhabitants, that strength is compensated by an
inherent weakness, dependent upon the length of roads and the inevitable dispersion of defensive
forces, where an invader insists upon pressing home the war by forced marches.

On the opposite side of the Euphrates to the point reached on one of these desert stages, was
a large and flourishing city named Charmande. From this town the soldiers made purchases of
provisions, crossing the river on rafts, in the following fashion: They took the skins which
they used as tent coverings, and filled them with light grass; they then compressed and stitched
them tightly together by the ends, so that the water might not touch the hay. On these they
crossed and got provisions: wine made from the date-nut, and millet or panic-corn, the common
staple of the country. Some dispute or other here occurred between the soldiers of Menon and
Clearchus, in which Clearchus sentenced one of Menon's men, as the delinquent, and had him
flogged. The man went back to his own division and told them. Hearing what had been done to
their comrade, his fellows fretted and fumed, and were highly incensed against Clearchus. The
same day Clearchus visited the passage of the river, and after inspecting the market there,
was returning with a few followers, on horseback, to his tent, and had to   12 pass through
Menon's quarters. Cyrus had not yet come up, but was riding up in the same direction. One of
Menon's men, who was splitting wood, caught sight of Clearchus as he rode past, and aimed a
blow at him with his axe. The aim took no effect; when another hurled a stone at him, and a
third, and then several, with shouts and hisses. Clearchus made a rapid retreat to his own
troops, and at once ordered them to get under arms. He bade his hoplites remain in position
with their shields resting against their knees, while he, at the head of his Thracians and
horsemen, of which he had more than forty in his army--Thracians for the most part--advanced
against Menon's soldiers, so that the latter, with Menon himself, were panic-stricken, and
ran to seize their arms; some even stood riveted to the spot, in perplexity at the occurrence.
Just then Proxenus came up from behind, as chance would have it, with his division of hoplites,
and without a moment's hesitation marched into the open space between the rival parties, and
grounded arms; then he fell to begging Clearchus to desist. The latter was not too well pleased
to hear his trouble mildly spoken of, when he had barely escaped being stoned to death; and
he bade Proxenus retire and leave the intervening space open. At this juncture Cyrus arrived
and inquired what was happening. There was no time for hesitation. With his javelins firmly
grasped in his hands he galloped up--escorted by some of his faithful bodyguard, who were present--and
was soon in the midst, exclaiming: "Clearchus, Proxenus, and you other Hellenes yonder, you
know not what you do. As surely as you come to blows with one another, our fate is sealed--this
very day I shall be cut to pieces, and so will you: your turn will follow close on mine. Let
our fortunes once take an evil turn, and these barbarians whom you see around will be worse
foes to us than those who are at present serving the king." At these words Clearchus came to
his senses. Both parties paused from battle, and retired to their quarters: order reigned.

VI

As they advanced from this point (opposite Charmande), they came upon   1 the hoof-prints and
dung of horses at frequent intervals. It looked like the trail of some two thousand horses.
Keeping ahead of the army, these fellows burnt up the grass and everything else that was good
for use. Now there was a Persian, named Orontas; he was closely related to the king by birth:
and in matters pertaining to war reckoned among the best of Persian warriors. Having formerly
been at war with Cyrus, and afterwards reconciled to him, he now made a conspiracy to destroy
him. he made a proposal to Cyrus: if Cyrus would furnish him with a thousand horsemen, he would
deal with these troopers, who were burning down everything in front of them; he would lay an
ambuscade and cut them down, or he would capture a host of them alive; in any case, he would
put a stop to their aggressiveness and burnings; he would see to it that they did not ever
get a chance of setting eyes on Cyrus's army and reporting its advent to the king. The proposal
seemed plausible to Cyrus, who accordingly authorised Orontas to take a detachment from each
of the generals, and be gone. He, thinking that he had got his horsemen ready to his hand,
wrote a letter to the king, announcing that he would ere long join him with as many troopers
as he could bring; he bade him, at the same time, instruct the royal cavalry to welcome him
as a friend. The letter further contained certain reminders of his former friendship and fidelity.
This despatch he delivered into the hands of one who was a trusty messenger, as he thought;
but the bearer took and gave it to Cyrus. Cyrus read it. Orontas was arrested. Then Cyrus summoned
to his tent seven of the noblest Persians among his personal attendants, and sent orders to
the Hellenic generals to bring up a body of hoplites. These troops were to take up a position
round his tent. This the generals did; bringing up about three thousand hoplites. Clearchus
was also invited inside, to assist at the court-martial; a compliment due to the position he
held among the other generals, in the opinion not only of Cyrus, but also of the rest of the
court. When he came out, he reported the circumstances of the trial (as to which, indeed, there
was no mystery) to his friends. He said that Cyrus opened the inquiry with these words: "I
have invited you hither, my friends, that I may take advice with you, and carry out whatever,
in the sight of God and man, it is right for me to do, as concerning the man before you, Orontas.
The      6 prisoner was, in the first instance, given to me by my father, to be my faithful
subject. In the next place, acting, to use his own words, under the orders of my brother, and
having hold of the acropolis of Sardis, he went to war with me. I met war with war, and forced
him to think it more prudent to desist from war with me: whereupon we shook hands, exchanging
solemn pledges. After that," and at this point Cyrus turned to Orontas, and addressed him personally--"after
that, did I do you any wrong?" Answer, "Never." Again another question: "Then later on, having
received, as you admit, no injury from me, did you revolt to the Mysians and injure my territory,
as far as in you lay?"--"I did," was the reply. "Then, once more having discovered the limits
of your power, did you flee to the altar of Artemis, crying out that you repented? and did
you thus work upon my feelings, that we a second time shook hands and made interchange of solemn
pledges? Are these things so?" Orontas again assented. "Then what injury have you received
from me," Cyrus asked, "that now for the third time, you have been detected in a treasonous
plot against me?"--"I must needs do so," he answered. Then Cyrus put one more question: "But
the day may come, may it not, when you will once again be hostile to my brother, and a faithful
friend to myself?" The other answered: "Even if I were, you could never be brought to believe
it, Cyrus."

At this point Cyrus turned to those who were present and said: "Such has been the conduct of
the prisoner in the past: such is his language now. I now call upon you, and you first, Clearchus,
to declare your opinion--what think you?" And Clearchus answered: "My advice to you is to put
this man out of the way as soon as may be, so that we may be saved the necessity of watching
him, and have more leisure, as far as he is concerned, to requite the services of those whose
friendship is sincere."--"To this opinion," he told us, "the rest of the court adhered." After
that, at the bidding of Cyrus, each of those present,   10 in turn, including the kinsmen of
Orontas, took him by the girdle; which is as much as to say, "Let him die the death," and then
those appointed led him out; and they who in old days were wont to do obeisance to him, could
not refrain, even at that moment, from bowing down before him, albeit they knew he was being
led forth to death.

After they had conducted him to the tent of Artapates, the trustiest of Cyrus's wand-bearers,
none set eyes upon him ever again, alive or dead. No one, of his own knowledge, could declare
the manner of his death; though some conjectured one thing and some another. No tomb to mark
his resting-place, either then or since, was ever seen.

VII

