For a while after the beautiful song had died away and the light had failed, the shepherds
stood with bowed heads. Then each one gathered his cloak around him and took his staff in his
hand and they started together to find the place and the Child about which they had heard.

Hastening into Bethlehem they came to the inn and found Joseph and Mary, and the babe, lying
in the manger, just as the angel said they would. They worshipped the Child and returned to
their duties, praising God and glorifying Him.

After that Joseph and Mary went away to another place and took the child Jesus with them, and
many others came to worship Him. Among them were three Wise Men who had come from separate
places and all from a great distance.

They followed the star which was set in the heavens to guide them and they too found the One
they sought.

As they came into the place where He was, each one bowed in worship and they laid before Him
the gifts they had brought--gold, frankincense and myrrh.

What a wonderful story it is, and how our hearts swell with love as we think about it! It is
fitting that tonight we should dwell upon it, for we, too, have come to worship our King. It
is His birthday and we have come together to bring Him our gifts. We have brought "white gifts"
because they are the expression of our pure, unselfish love.

The Wise Men brought gold, and we have brought our gifts of substance--money and food and clothing
and things that will help to make others comfortable and happy.

The Wise Men brought frankincense, and we bring gifts of service; for each one of us desires
to do some one thing all during the year that will make for good and make us worthy followers
of Him.

The Wise Men brought myrrh, and we bring devotion; for we bring the gift of self. If we have
not already given ourselves to the Master, we want to do so now; and if we have done so, we
want to reconsecrate our lives to Him.

THE STAR[*]

By Florence M. Kingsley

Once upon a time in a country far away from here, there lived a little girl named Ruth. Ruth's
home was not at all like our houses, for she lived in a little tower on top of the great stone
wall that surrounded the town of Bethlehem. Ruth's father was the hotel-keeper--the Bible says
the "inn keeper." This inn was not at all like our hotels, either. There was a great open yard,
which was called the courtyard. All about this yard were little rooms and each traveler who
came to the hotel rented one. The inn stood near the great stone wall of the city, so that
as Ruth stood, one night, looking out of the tower window, she looked directly into the courtyard.
It was truly a strange sight that met her eyes. So many people were coming to the inn, for
the King had made a law that every man should come back to the city where his father used to
live to be counted and to pay his taxes. Some of the people came on the backs of camels, with
great rolls of bedding and their dishes for cooking upon the back of the beast. Some of them
came on little donkeys, and on their backs too were the bedding and the dishes. Some of the
people came walking--slowly; they were so tired. Many miles some of them had come. As Ruth
looked down into the courtyard, she saw the camels being led to their places by their masters,
she heard the snap of the whips, she saw the sparks shoot up from the fires that were kindled
in the courtyard, where each person was preparing his own supper; she heard the cries of the
tired, hungry little children.

Presently her mother, who was cooking supper, came over to the window and said, "Ruthie, thou
shalt hide in the house until all those people are gone. Dost thou understand?"

"Yes, my mother," said the child, and she left the window to follow her mother back to the
stove, limping painfully, for little Ruth was a cripple.