During the six weeks I encamped at Bagamoyo, waiting for my quota of men, this lad of twenty
gave me very much trouble.  He was found out half a dozen times a day in dishonesty, yet was
in no way abashed by it.  He would send in his account of the cloths supplied to the pagazis,
stating them to be 25 paid to each; on sending a man to inquire I would find the greatest number
to have been 20, and the smallest 12.  Soor Hadji Palloo described the cloths to be of first-class
quality, Ulyah cloths, worth in the market four times more than the ordinary quality given
to the pagazis, yet a personal examination would prove them to be the flimsiest goods sold,
such as American sheeting 2 1/2 feet broad, and worth $2.75 per 30 yards a piece at Zanzibar,
or the most inferior Kaniki, which is generally sold at $9 per score.  He would personally
come to my camp and demand 40 lbs. of Sami-Sami, Merikani, and Bubu beads for posho, or caravan
rations; an inspection of their store before departure from their first camp from Bagamoyo
would show a deficiency ranging from 5 to 30 lbs. Moreover, he cheated in cash-money, such
as demanding $4 for crossing the Kingani Ferry for every ten pagazis, when the fare was $2
for the same number; and an unconscionable number of pice (copper coins equal in value to 3/4
of a cent) were required for posho.  It was every day for four weeks that this system of roguery
was carried out. Each day conceived a dozen new schemes; every instant of his time he seemed
to be devising how to plunder, until I was fairly at my wits' end how to thwart him.  Exposure
before a crowd of his fellows brought no blush of shame to his sallow cheeks; he would listen
with a mere shrug of the shoulders and that was all, which I might interpret any way it pleased
me. A threat to reduce his present had no effect; a bird in the hand was certainly worth two
in the bush for him, so ten dollars' worth of goods stolen and in his actual possession was
of more intrinsic value than the promise of $20 in a few days, though it was that of a white man.

Readers will of course ask themselves why I did not, after the first discovery of these shameless
proceedings, close my business with him, to which I make reply, that I could not do without
him unless his equal were forthcoming, that I never felt so thoroughly dependent on any one
man as I did upon him; without his or his duplicate's aid, I must have stayed at Bagamoyo at
least six months, at the end of which time the Expedition would have become valueless, the
rumour of it having been blown abroad to the four winds.  It was immediate departure that was
essential to my success--departure from Bagamoyo--after which it might be possible for me to
control my own future in a great measure.

These troubles were the greatest that I could at this time imagine. I have already stated that
I had $1,750 worth of pagazis' clothes, or 3,500 doti, stored in my tent, and above what my
bales contained.  Calculating one hundred and forty pagazis at 25 doti each, I supposed I had
enough, yet, though I had been trying to teach the young Hindi that the Musungu was not a fool,
nor blind to his pilfering tricks, though the 3,500 doti were all spent; though I had only
obtained one hundred and thirty pagazis at 25 doti each, which in the aggregate amounted to
3,200 doti: Soor Hadji Palloo's bill was $1,400 cash extra.  His plea was that he had furnished
Ulyah clothes for Muhongo 240 doti, equal in value to 960 of my doti, that the money was spent
in ferry pice, in presents to chiefs of caravans of tents, guns, red broad cloth, in presents
to people on the Mrima (coast) to induce them to hunt up pagazis.  Upon this exhibition of
most ruthless cheating I waxed indignant, and declared to him that if he did not run over his
bill and correct it, he should go without a pice.

But before the bill could be put into proper shape, my words, threats, and promises falling
heedlessly on a stony brain, a man, Kanjee by name, from the store of Tarya Topan, of Zanzibar,
had to come over, when the bill was finally reduced to $738.  Without any disrespect to Tarya
Topan, I am unable to decide which is the most accomplished rascal, Kanjee, or young Soor Hadji
Palloo; in the words of a white man who knows them both, "there is not the splitting of a straw
between them." Kanjee is deep and sly, Soor Hadji Palloo is bold and incorrigible.  But peace
be to them both, may their shaven heads never be covered with the troublous crown I wore at
Bagamoyo!

My dear friendly reader, do not think, if I speak out my mind in this or in any other chapter
upon matters seemingly trivial and unimportant, that seeming such they should be left unmentioned.
Every tittle related is a fact, and to knew facts is to receive knowledge.

How could I ever recite my experience to you if I did not enter upon these miserable details,
which sorely distract the stranger upon his first arrival?  Had I been a Government official,
I had but wagged my finger and my quota of pagazis had been furnished me within a week; but
as an individual arriving without the graces of official recognition, armed with no Government
influence, I had to be patient, bide my time, and chew the cud of irritation quietly, but the
bread I ate was not all sour, as this was.

The white men, Farquhar and Shaw, were kept steadily at work upon water-proof tents of hemp
canvas, for I perceived, by the premonitory showers of rain that marked the approach of the
Masika that an ordinary tent of light cloth would subject myself to damp and my goods to mildew,
and while there was time to rectify all errors that had crept into my plans through ignorance
or over haste, I thought it was not wise to permit things to rectify themselves.  Now that
I have returned uninjured in health, though I have suffered the attacks of twenty-three fevers
within the short space of thirteen months; I must confess I owe my life, first, to the mercy
of God; secondly, to the enthusiasm for my work, which animated me from the beginning to the
end; thirdly, to having never ruined my constitution by indulgence in vice and intemperance;
fourthly, to the energy of my nature; fifthly, to a native hopefulness which never died; and,
sixthly, to having furnished myself with a capacious water and damp proof canvas house.  And
here, if my experience may be of value, I would suggest that travellers, instead of submitting
their better judgment to the caprices of a tent-maker, who will endeavour to pass off a handsomely
made fabric of his own, which is unsuited to all climes, to use his own judgment, and get the
best and strongest that money will buy.  In the end it will prove the cheapest, and perhaps
be the means of saving his life.

On one point I failed,, and lest new and young travellers fall into the same error which marred
much of my enjoyment, this paragraph is written.  One must be extremely careful in his choice
of weapons, whether for sport or defence.  A traveller should have at least three different
kinds of guns.  One should be a fowling-piece, the second should be a double-barrelled rifle,
No. 10 or 12, the third should be a magazine-rifle, for defence.  For the fowling-piece I would
suggest No. 12 bore, with barrels at least four feet in length. For the rifle for larger game,
I would point out, with due deference to old sportsmen, of course, that the best guns for African
game are the English Lancaster and Reilly rifles; and for a fighting weapon, I maintain that
the best yet invented is the American Winchester repeating rifle, or the "sixteen, shooter"
as it is called, supplied with the London Eley's ammunition.  If I suggest as a fighting weapon
the American Winchester, I do not mean that the traveller need take it for the purpose of offence,
but as the beat means of efficient defence, to save his own life against African banditti,
when attacked, a thing likely to happen any time.

I met a young man soon after returning from the interior, who declared his conviction that
the "Express," rifle was the most perfect weapon ever invented to destroy African game.  Very
possibly the young man may be right, and that the "Express " rifle is all he declares it to
be, but he had never practised with it against African game, and as I had never tried it, I
could not combat his assertion: but I could relate my experiences with weapons, having all
the penetrating powers of the "Express," and could inform him that though the bullets penetrated
through the animals, they almost always failed to bring down the game at the first fire. On
the other hand, I could inform him, that during the time I travelled with Dr. Livingstone the
Doctor lent me his heavy Reilly rifle with which I seldom failed to bring an animal or two
home to the camp, and that I found the Fraser shell answer all purposes for which it was intended.
The feats related by Capt. Speke and Sir Samuel Baker are no longer matter of wonderment to
the young ]sportsman, when he has a Lancaster or a Reilly in his hand. After very few trials
he can imitate them, if not excel their Leeds, provided he has a steady hand.  And it is to
forward this end that this paragraph is written.  African game require "bone-crushers;" for
any ordinary carbine possesses sufficient penetrative qualities, yet has not he disabling qualities
which a gun must possess to be useful in the hands of an African explorer.

I had not been long at Bagamoyo before I went over to Mussoudi's camp, to visit the "Livingstone
caravan" which the British Consul had despatched on the first day of November, 1870, to the
relief of Livingstone.  The number of packages was thirty-five, which required as many men
to convey them to Unyanyembe.  The men chosen to escort this caravan were composed of Johannese
and Wahiyow, seven in number. Out of the seven, four were slaves.  They lived in clover here--
thoughtless of the errand they had been sent upon, and careless of the consequences.  What
these men were doing at Bagamoyo all this time I never could conceive, except indulging their
own vicious propensities.  It would be nonsense to say there were no pagazis; because I know
there were at least fifteen caravans which had started for the interior since the Ramadan (December
15th, 1870). Yet Livingstone's caravan had arrived at this little town of Bagamoyo November
2nd, and here it had been lying until the 10th February, in all, 100 days, for lack of the
limited number of thirty-five pagazis, a number that might be procured within two days through
consular influence.

Bagamoyo has a most enjoyable climate.  It is far preferable in every sense to that of Zanzibar.
We were able to sleep in the open air, and rose refreshed and healthy each morning, to enjoy
our matutinal bath in the sea; and by the time the sun had risen we were engaged in various
preparations for our departure for the interior.  Our days were enlivened by visits from the
Arabs who were also bound for Unyanyembe; by comical scenes in the camp; sometimes by court-martials
held on the refractory; by a boxing-match between Farquhar and Shaw, necessitating my prudent
interference when they waxed too wroth; by a hunting excursion now and then to the Kingani
plain and river; by social conversation with the old Jemadar and his band of Baluches, who
were never tired of warning me that the Masika was at hand, and of advising me that my best
course was to hurry on before the season for travelling expired.

Among the employees with the Expedition were two Hindi and two Goanese.  They had conceived
the idea that the African interior was an El Dorado, the ground of which was strewn over with
ivory tusks, and they had clubbed together; while their imaginations were thus heated, to embark
in a little enterprise of their own. Their names were Jako, Abdul Kader, Bunder Salaam, and
Aranselar; Jako engaged in my service, as carpenter and general help; Abdul Kader as a tailor,
Bunder Salaam as cook, and Aranselar as chief butler.

But Aranselar, with an intuitive eye, foresaw that I was likely to prove a vigorous employer,
and while there was yet time he devoted most of it to conceive how it were possible to withdraw
from the engagement.  He received permission upon asking for it to go to Zanzibar to visit
his friends.  Two days afterwards I was informed he had blown his right eye out, and received
a medical confirmation of the fact, and note of the extent of the injury, from Dr. Christie,
the physician to His Highness Seyd Burghash.  His compatriots I imagined were about planning
the same thing, but a peremptory command to abstain from such folly, issued after they had
received their advance-pay, sufficed to check any sinister designs they may have formed.

A groom was caught stealing from the bales, one night, and the chase after him into the country
until he vanished out of sight into the jungle, was one of the most agreeable diversions which
occurred to wear away the interval employed in preparing for the march.

I had now despatched four caravans into the interior, and the fifth, which was to carry the
boats and boxes, personal luggage, and a few cloth and bead loads, was ready to be led by myself.
The following is the order of departure of the caravans.

1871. Feb. 6.--Expedition arrived at Bagamoyo.

1871. Feb. 18.--First caravan departs with twenty-four pagazis and three soldiers.

1871. Feb. 21.--Second caravan departs with twenty-eight pagazis, two chiefs, and two soldiers.

1871. Feb. 25.--Third caravan departs with twenty-two pagazis, ten donkeys, one white man,
one cook, and three soldiers.

1871. March. 11.--Fourth caravan departs with fifty-five pagazis, two chiefs, and three soldiers.

1871. March. 21.--Fifth caravan departs with twenty-eight pagazis, twelve soldiers, two white
men, one tailor, one cook, one interpreter, one gun-bearer, seventeen asses, two horses, and
one dog.

Total number, inclusive of all souls, comprised in caravans connected with the "New York Herald'
Expedition," 192.

CHAPTER V.  THROUGH UKWERE, UKAMI, AND UDOE TO USEGUHHA.

Leaving Bagamoyo for the interior.--Constructing a Bridge.--Our first troubles.--Shooting Hippopotami.--A
first view of the Game Land.--Anticipating trouble with the Wagogo.--The dreadful poison- flies.--Unlucky
adventures while hunting.--The cunning chief of Kingaru.--Sudden death of my two horses.--A
terrible experience.-- The city of the "Lion Lord."

On the 21st of March, exactly seventy-three days after my arrival at Zanzibar, the fifth caravan,
led by myself, left the town of Bagamoyo for our first journey westward, with "Forward!" for
its mot du guet.  As the kirangozi unrolled the American flag, and put himself at the head
of the caravan, and the pagazis, animals, soldiers, and idlers were lined for the march, we
bade a long farewell to the dolce far niente of civilised life, to the blue ocean, and to its
open road to home, to the hundreds of dusky spectators who were there to celebrate our departure
with repeated salvoes of musketry.

Our caravan is composed of twenty-eight pagazis, including the kirangozi, or guide; twelve
soldiers under Capt. Mbarak Bombay, in charge of seventeen donkeys and their loads; Selim,
my interpreter, in charge of the donkey and cart and its load; one cook and sub, who is also
to be tailor and ready hand for all, and leads the grey horse; Shaw, once mate of a ship, now
transformed into rearguard and overseer for the caravan, who is mounted on a good riding-donkey,
and wearing a canoe-like tepee and sea-boots; and lastly, on, the splendid bay horse presented
to me by Mr. Goodhue, myself, called Bana Mkuba, "the "big master," by my people--the vanguard,
the reporter, the thinker, and leader of the Expedition.

Altogether the Expedition numbers on the day of departure three white men, twenty-three soldiers,
four supernumeraries, four chiefs, and one hundred and fifty-three pagazis, twenty-seven donkeys,
and one cart, conveying cloth, beads, and wire, boat-fixings, tents, cooking utensils and dishes,
medicine, powder, small shot, musket-balls, and metallic cartridges; instruments and small
necessaries, such as soap, sugar, tea, coffee, Liebig's extract of meat, pemmican, candles,
&c., which make a total of 153 loads.  The weapons of defence which the Expedition possesses
consist of one double-barrel breech-loading gun, smooth bore; one American Winchester rifle,
or "sixteen-shooter;" one Henry rifle, or "sixteen-shooter;" two Starr's breech-loaders, one
Jocelyn breech-loader, one elephant rifle, carrying balls eight to the pound; two breech-loading
revolvers, twenty-four muskets (flint locks), six single-barrelled pistols, one battle-axe,
two swords, two daggers (Persian kummers, purchased at Shiraz by myself), one boar-spear, two
American axes 4 lbs. each, twenty-four hatchets, and twenty-four butcher-knives.

The Expedition has been fitted with care; whatever it needed was not stinted; everything was
provided.  Nothing was done too hurriedly, yet everything was purchased, manufactured, collected,
and compounded with the utmost despatch consistent with efficiency and means. Should it fail
of success in its errand of rapid transit to Ujiji and back, it must simply happen from an
accident which could not be controlled.  So much for the personnel of the Expedition and its
purpose, until its point de mire be reached.

We left Bagamoyo the attraction of all the curious, with much eclat, and defiled up a narrow
lane shaded almost to twilight by the dense umbrage of two parallel hedges of mimosas.  We
were all in the highest spirits.  The soldiers sang, the kirangozi lifted his voice into a
loud bellowing note, and fluttered the American flag, which told all on-lookers, "Lo, a Musungu's
caravan!" and my heart, I thought, palpitated much too quickly for the sober face of a leader.
But I could not check it; the enthusiasm of youth still clung to me--despite my travels; my
pulses bounded with the full glow of staple health; behind me were the troubles which had harassed
me for over two months.  With that dishonest son of a Hindi, Soor Hadji Palloo, I had said
my last word; of the blatant rabble, of Arabs, Banyans, and Baluches I had taken my last look;
with the Jesuits of the French Mission I had exchanged farewells, and before me beamed the
sun of promise as he sped towards the Occident.  Loveliness glowed around me.  I saw fertile
fields, riant vegetation, strange trees--I heard the cry of cricket and pee-wit, and sibilant
sound of many insects, all of which seemed to tell me, "At last you are started."  What could
I do but lift my face toward the pure-glowing sky, and cry, "God be thanked!"

The first camp, Shamba Gonera, we arrived at in 1 hour 30 minutes, equal to 3 1/4 miles.  This
first, or "little journey," was performed very well, "considering," as the Irishman says. The
boy Selim upset the cart not more than three times.  Zaidi, the soldier, only once let his
donkey, which carried one bag of my clothes and a box of ammunition, lie in a puddle of black
water.  The clothes have to be re-washed; the ammunition-box, thanks to my provision, was waterproof.
Kamna perhaps knew the art of donkey-driving, but, overjoyful at the departure, had sung himself
into oblivion of the difficulties with which an animal of the pure asinine breed has naturally
to contend against, such as not knowing the right road, and inability to resist the temptation
of straying into the depths of a manioc field; and the donkey, ignorant of the custom in vogue
amongst ass-drivers of flourishing sticks before an animal's nose, and misunderstanding the
direction in which he was required to go, ran off at full speed along an opposite road, until
his pack got unbalanced, and he was fain to come to the earth.  But these incidents were trivial,
of no importance, and natural to the first "little journey" in East Africa.

The soldiers' point of character leaked out just a little.  Bombay turned out to be honest
and trusty, but slightly disposed to be dilatory.  Uledi did more talking than work; while
the runaway Ferajji and the useless-handed Mabruki Burton turned out to be true men and staunch,
carrying loads the sight of which would have caused the strong-limbed hamals of Stamboul to sigh.

The saddles were excellent, surpassing expectation.  The strong hemp canvas bore its one hundred
and fifty-pounds' burden with the strength of bull hide, and the loading and unloading of miscellaneous
baggage was performed with systematic despatch.  In brief, there was nothing to regret--the
success of the journey proved our departure to be anything but premature.

The next three days were employed in putting the finishing touches to our preparations for
the long land journey and our precautions against the Masika, which was now ominously near,
and in settling accounts.

Shamba Gonera means Gonera's Field.  Gonera is a wealthy Indian widow, well disposed towards
the Wasungu (whites).  She exports much cloth, beads, and wire into the far interior, and imports
in return much ivory.  Her house is after the model of the town houses, with long sloping roof
and projecting eaves, affording a cool shade, under which the pagazis love to loiter.  On its
southern and eastern side stretch the cultivated fields which supply Bagamoyo with the staple
grain, matama, of East Africa; on the left grow Indian corn, and muhogo, a yam-like root of
whitish colour, called by some manioc; when dry, it is ground and compounded into cakes similar
to army slapjacks.  On the north, just behind the house, winds a black quagmire, a sinuous
hollow, which in its deepest parts always contains water--the muddy home of the brake-and-rush-loving
"kiboko" or hippopotamus.  Its banks, crowded with dwarf fan-palm, tall water-reeds, acacias,
and tiger-grass, afford shelter to numerous aquatic birds, pelicans, &c.  After following a
course north-easterly, it conflows with the Kingani, which, at distance of four miles from
Gonera's country-house; bends eastward into the sea.  To the west, after a mile of cultivation,
fall and recede in succession the sea-beach of old in lengthy parallel waves, overgrown densely
with forest grass and marsh reeds.  On the spines of these land-swells flourish ebony, calabash,
and mango.

"Sofari--sofari leo!  Pakia, pakia!"--" A journey--a journey to day!  Set out!--set out!" rang
the cheery voice of the kirangozi, echoed by that of my servant Selim, on the morning of the
fourth day, which was fixed for our departure in earnest.  As I hurried my men to their work,
and lent a hand with energy to drop the tents, I mentally resolved that, if my caravans a should
give me clear space, Unyanyembe should be our resting-place before three months expired.  By
6 A.M. our early breakfast was despatched, and the donkeys and pagazis were defiling from Camp
Gonera.  Even at this early hour, and in this country place, there was quite a collection of
curious natives, to whom we gave the parting "Kwaheri " with sincerity.  My bay horse was found
to be invaluable for the service of a quarter-master of a transport-train; for to such was
I compelled to compare myself.  I could stay behind until the last donkey had quitted the camp,
and, by a few minutes' gallop, I could put myself at the head, leaving Shaw to bring up the rear.

The road was a mere footpath, and led over a soil which, though sandy, was of surprising fertility,
producing grain and vegetables a hundredfold, the sowing and planting of which was done in
the most unskilful manner.  In their fields, at heedless labor, were men and women in the scantiest
costumes, compared to which Adam and Eve, in their fig-tree apparel, must have been en grande
tenue.  We passed them with serious faces, while they laughed and giggled, and pointed their
index fingers at this and that, which to them seemed so strange and bizarre.

In about half an hour we had left the tall matama and fields of water-melons, cucumbers, and
manioc; and, crossing a reedy slough, were in an open forest of ebony and calabash.  In its
depths are deer in plentiful numbers, and at night it is visited by the hippopotami of the
Kingani for the sake of its grass.  In another hour we had emerged from the woods, and were
looking down upon the broad valley of the Kingani, and a scene presented itself so utterly
different from what my foolish imagination had drawn, that I felt quite relieved by the pleasing
disappointment.  Here was a valley stretching four miles east and west, and about eight miles
north and south, left with the richest soil to its own wild growth of grass--which in civilization
would have been a most valuable meadow for the rearing of cattle--invested as it was by dense
forests, darkening the horizon at all points of the compass, and folded in by tree-clad ridges.

At the sound of our caravan the red antelope bounded away to our right and the left, and frogs
hushed their croak.  The sun shone hot, and while traversing the valley we experienced a little
of its real African fervour.  About half way across we came to a sluice of stagnant water which,
directly in the road of the caravan, had settled down into an oozy pond.  The pagazis crossed
a hastily-constructed bridge, thrown up a long time ago by some Washensi Samaritans.  It was
an extraordinary affair; rugged tree limbs resting on very unsteady forked piles, and it had
evidently tested the patience of many a loaded Mnyamwezi, as it did those porters of our caravan.
Our weaker animals were unloaded, the puddle between Bagamoyo and Genera having taught us prudence.
But this did not occasion much delay; the men worked smartly under Shaw's supervision.

The turbid Kingani, famous for its hippopotami, was reached in a short time, and we began to
thread the jungle along its right bank until we were halted point-blank by a narrow sluice
having an immeasurable depth of black mud.  The difficulty presented by this was very grave,
though its breadth was barely eight feet; the donkeys, and least of all the horses, could not
be made to traverse two poles like our biped carriers, neither could they be driven into the
sluice, where they would quickly founder.  The only available way of crossing it in safety
was by means of a bridge, to endure in this conservative land for generations as the handiwork
of the Wasungu.  So we set to work, there being no help for it, with American axes--the first
of their kind the strokes of which ever rang in this part of the world--to build a bridge.
Be sure it was made quickly, for where the civilized white is found, a difficulty must vanish.
The bridge was composed of six stout trees thrown across, over these were laid crosswise fifteen
pack saddles, covered again with a thick layer of grass.  All the animals crossed it safely,
and then for a third time that morning the process of wading was performed.  The Kingani flowed
northerly here, and our course lay down its right bank.  A half mile in that direction through
a jungle of giant reeds and extravagant climbers brought us to the ferry, where the animals
had to be again unloaded--verily, I wished when I saw its deep muddy waters that I possessed
the power of Moses with his magic rod, or what would have answered my purpose as well, Aladdin's
ring, for then I could have found myself and party on the opposite side without further trouble;
but not having either of these gifts I issued orders for an immediate crossing, for it was
ill wishing sublime things before this most mundane prospect.

Kingwere, the canoe paddler, espying us from his brake covert, on the opposite side, civilly
responded to our halloos, and brought his huge hollowed tree skilfully over the whirling eddies
of the river to where we stood waiting for him.  While one party loaded the canoe with our
goods, others got ready a long rape to fasten around the animals' necks, wherewith to haul
them through the river to the other bank.  After seeing the work properly commenced, I sat
down on a condemned canoe to amuse myself with the hippopotami by peppering their thick skulls
with my No. 12 smooth-bore.  The Winchester rifle (calibre 44), a present from the Hon. Edward
Joy Morris--our minister at Constantinople--did no more than slightly tap them, causing about
as much injury as a boy's sling; it was perfect in its accuracy of fire, for ten times in succession
I struck the tops of their heads between the ears.  One old fellow, with the look of a sage,
was tapped close to the right ear by one of these bullets.  Instead of submerging himself as
others had done he coolly turned round his head as if to ask, "Why this waste of valuable cartridges
on us?"  The response to the mute inquiry of his sageship was an ounce-and-a-quarter bullet
from the smooth-bore, which made him bellow with pain, and in a few moments he rose up again,
tumbling in his death agonies.  As his groans were so piteous, I refrained from a useless sacrifice
of life, and left the amphibious horde in peace.

A little knowledge concerning these uncouth inmates of the African waters was gained even during
the few minutes we were delayed at the ferry.  When undisturbed by foreign sounds, they congregate
in shallow water on the sand bars, with the fore half of their bodies exposed to the warm sunshine,
and are in appearance, when thus somnolently reposing, very like a herd of enormous swine.
When startled by the noise of an intruder, they plunge hastily into the depths, lashing the
waters into a yellowish foam, and scatter themselves below the surface, when presently the
heads of a few reappear, snorting the water from their nostrils, to take a fresh breath and
a cautious scrutiny around them; when thus, we see but their ears, forehead, eyes and nostrils,
and as they hastily submerge again it requires a steady wrist and a quick hand to shoot them.
I have heard several comparisons made of their appearance while floating in this manner: some
Arabs told me before I had seen them that they looked like dead trees carried down the river;
others, who in some country had seen hogs, thought they resembled them, but to my mind they
look more like horses when swimming their curved necks and pointed ears, their wide eyes and
expanded nostrils, favor greatly this comparison.

At night they seek the shore, and wander several miles over the country, luxuriating among
its rank grasses.  To within four miles of the town of Bagamoyo (the Kingani is eight miles
distant) their wide tracks are seen.  Frequently, if not disturbed by the startling human voice,
they make a raid on the rich corn-stalks of the native cultivators, and a dozen of them will
in a few minutes make a frightful havoc in a large field of this plant. Consequently, we were
not surprised, while delayed at the ferry, to hear the owners of the corn venting loud halloos,
like the rosy-cheeked farmer boys in England when scaring the crows away from the young wheat.

The caravan in the meanwhile had crossed safely--bales, baggage, donkeys, and men.  I had thought
to have camped on the bank, so as to amuse myself with shooting antelope, and also for the
sake of procuring their meat, in order to save my goats, of which I had a number constituting
my live stock of provisions; but, thanks to the awe and dread which my men entertained of the
hippopotami, I was hurried on to the outpost of the Baluch garrison at Bagamoyo, a small village
called Kikoka, distant four miles from the river.

The western side of the river was a considerable improvement upon the eastern.  The plain,
slowly heaving upwards, as smoothly as the beach of a watering-place, for the distance of a
mile, until it culminated in a gentle and rounded ridge, presented none of those difficulties
which troubled us on the other side.  There were none of those cataclysms of mire and sloughs
of black mud and over-tall grasses, none of that miasmatic jungle with its noxious emissions;
it was just such a scene as one may find before an English mansion--a noble expanse of lawn
and sward, with boscage sufficient to agreeably diversify it. After traversing the open plain,
the road led through a grove of young ebony trees, where guinea-fowls and a hartebeest were
seen; it then wound, with all the characteristic eccentric curves of a goat-path, up and down
a succession of land-waves crested by the dark green foliage of the mango, and the scantier
and lighter-coloured leaves of the enormous calabash.  The depressions were filled with jungle
of more or less density, while here and there opened glades, shadowed even during noon by thin
groves of towering trees.  At our approach fled in terror flocks of green pigeons, jays, ibis,
turtledoves, golden pheasants, quails and moorhens, with crows and hawks, while now and then
a solitary pelican winged its way to the distance.

Nor was this enlivening prospect without its pairs of antelope, and monkeys which hopped away
like Australian kangaroos; these latter were of good size, with round bullet heads, white breasts,
and long tails tufted at the end.

We arrived at Kikoka by  5 P.m., having loaded and unloaded our pack animals four times, crossing
one deep puddle, a mud sluice, and a river, and performed a journey of eleven miles.

The settlement of Kikoka is a collection of straw huts; not built after any architectural style,
but after a bastard form, invented by indolent settlers from the Mrima and Zanzibar for the
purpose of excluding as much sunshine as possible from the eaves and interior.  A sluice and
some wells provide them with water, which though sweet is not particularly wholesome or appetizing,
owing to the large quantities of decayed matter which is washed into it by the rains, and is
then left to corrupt in it. A weak effort has been made to clear the neighbourhood for providing
a place for cultivation, but to the dire task of wood-chopping and jungle-clearing the settlers
prefer occupying an open glade, which they clear of grass, so as to be able to hoe up two or
three inches of soil, into which they cast their seed, confident of return.

The next day was a halt at Kikoka; the fourth caravan, consisting solely of Wanyamwezi, proving
a sore obstacle to a rapid advance.  Maganga, its chief, devised several methods of extorting
more cloth and presents from me, he having cost already more than any three chiefs together;
but his efforts were of no avail further than obtaining promises of reward if he would hurry
on to Unyanyembe so that I might find my road clear.

On the 2(7?)th, the Wanyamwezi having started, we broke camp soon after at 7 am.  The country
was of the same nature as that lying between the Kingani and Kikokaa park land, attractive
and beautiful in every feature.

I rode in advance to secure meat should a chance present itself, but not the shadow of vert
or venison did I see.  Ever in our front--westerly--rolled the land-waves, now rising, now
subsiding, parallel one with the other, like a ploughed field many times magnified.  Each ridge
had its knot of jungle or its thin combing of heavily foliaged trees, until we arrived close
to Rosako, our next halting place, when the monotonous wavure of the land underwent a change,
breaking into independent hummocks clad with dense jungle.  On one of these, veiled by an impenetrable
jungle of thorny acacia, rested Rosako; girt round by its natural fortification, neighbouring
another village to the north of it similarly protected.  Between them sank a valley extremely
fertile and bountiful in its productions, bisected by a small stream, which serves as a drain
to the valley or low hills surrounding it.

Rosako is the frontier village of Ukwere, while Kikoka is the north-western extremity of Uzaramo.
We entered this village, and occupied its central portion with our tents and animals.  A kitanda,
or square light bedstead, without valance, fringe, or any superfluity whatever, but nevertheless
quite as comfortable as with them, was brought to my tent for my use by the village chief.
The animals were, immediately after being unloaded, driven out to feed, and the soldiers to
a man set to work to pile the baggage up, lest the rain, which during the Masika season always
appears imminent, might cause irreparable damage.

Among other experiments which I was about to try in Africa was that of a good watch-dog on
any unmannerly people who would insist upon coming into my tent at untimely hours and endangering
valuables.  Especially did I wish to try the effect of its bark on the mighty Wagogo, who,
I was told by certain Arabs, would lift the door of the tent and enter whether you wished them
or not; who would chuckle at the fear they inspired, and say to you, "Hi, hi, white man, I
never saw the like of you before; are there many more like you? where do you come from?"  Also
would they take hold of your watch and ask you with a cheerful curiosity, "What is this for,
white man?" to which you of course would reply that it was to tell you the hour and minute.
But the Mgogo, proud of his prowess, and more unmannerly than a brute, would answer you with
a snort of insult. I thought of a watch-dog, and procured a good one at Bombay not only as
a faithful companion, but to threaten the heels of just such gentry.

But soon after our arrival at Rosako it was found that the dog, whose name was "Omar," given
him from his Turkish origin, was missing; he had strayed away from the soldiers during a rain-squall
and had got lost.  I despatched Mabruki Burton back to Kikoka to search for him.  On the following
morning, just as we were about to leave Rosako, the faithful fellow returned with the lost
dog, having found him at Kikoka.

Previous to our departure on the morning after this, Maganga, chief of the fourth caravan,
brought me the unhappy report that three of his pagazis were sick, and he would like to have
some "dowa"-- medicine.  Though not a doctor, or in any way connected with the profession,
I had a well-supplied medicine chest--without which no traveller in Africa could live--for
just such a contingency as was now present.  On visiting Maganga's sick men, I found one suffering
from inflammation of the lungs, another from the mukunguru (African intermittent).  They all
imagined themselves about to die, and called loudly for "Mama!" "Mama!" though they were all
grown men. It was evident that the fourth caravan could not stir that day, so leaving word
with Magauga to hurry after me as soon as possible, I issued orders for the march of my own.

Excepting in the neighbourhood of the villages which we have passed there were no traces of
cultivation.  The country extending between the several stations is as much a wilderness as
the desert of Sahara, though it possesses a far more pleasing aspect.  Indeed, had the first
man at the time of the Creation gazed at his world and perceived it of the beauty which belongs
to this part of Africa, he would have had no cause of complaint.  In the deep thickets, set
like islets amid a sea of grassy verdure, he would have found shelter from the noonday heat,
and a safe retirement for himself and spouse during the awesome darkness.  In the morning he
could have walked forth on the sloping sward, enjoyed its freshness, and performed his ablutions
in one of the many small streams flowing at its foot.  His garden of fruit-trees is all that
is required; the noble forests, deep and cool, are round about him, and in their shade walk
as many animals as one can desire. For days and days let a man walk in any direction, north,
south, east, and west, and he will behold the same scene.

Earnestly as I wished to hurry on to Unyanyembe, still a heart-felt anxiety about the arrival
of my goods carried by the fourth caravan, served as a drag upon me and before my caravan had
marched nine miles my anxiety had risen to the highest pitch, and caused me to order a camp
there and then.  The place selected for it was near a long straggling sluice, having an abundance
of water during the rainy season, draining as it does two extensive slopes.  No sooner had
we pitched our camp, built a boma of thorny acacia, and other tree branches, by stacking them
round our camp, and driven our animals to grass; than we were made aware of the formidable
number and variety of the insect tribe, which for a time was another source of anxiety, until
a diligent examination of the several species dispelled it.

As it was a most interesting hunt which I instituted for the several specimens of the insects,
I here append the record of it for what it is worth.  My object in obtaining these specimens
was to determine whether the genus Glossina morsitans of the naturalist, or the tsetse (sometimes
called setse) of Livingstone, Vardon, and Gumming, said to be deadly to horses, was amongst
them.  Up to this date I had been nearly two months in East Africa, and had as yet seen no
tsetse; and my horses, instead of becoming emaciated--for such is one of the symptoms of a
tsetse bite--had considerably improved in condition.  There were three different species of
flies which sought shelter in my tent, which, unitedly, kept up a continual chorus of sounds--one
performed the basso profondo, another a tenor, and the third a weak contralto. The first emanated
from a voracious and fierce fly, an inch long, having a ventral capacity for blood quite astonishing.

This larger fly was the one chosen for the first inspection, which was of the intensest. I
permitted one to alight on my flannel pyjamas, which I wore while en deshabille in camp. No
sooner had he alighted than his posterior was raised, his head lowered, and his weapons, consisting
of four hair-like styles, unsheathed from the proboscis-like bag which concealed them, and
immediately I felt pain like that caused by a dexterous lancet-cut or the probe of a fine needle.
I permitted him to gorge himself, though my patience and naturalistic interest were sorely
tried.  I saw his abdominal parts distend with the plenitude of the repast until it had swollen
to three times its former shrunken girth, when he flew away of his own accord laden with blood.
On rolling up my flannel pyjamas to see the fountain whence the fly had drawn the fluid, I
discovered it to be a little above the left knee, by a crimson bead resting over the incision.
After wiping the blood the wound was similar to that caused by a deep thrust of a fine needle,
but all pain had vanished with the departure of the fly.

Having caught a specimen of this fly, I next proceeded to institute a comparison between it
and the tsetse, as described by Dr. Livingstone on pp. 56-57, `Missionary Travels and Researches
in South Africa' (Murray's edition of 1868).  The points of disagreement are many, and such
as to make it entirely improbable that this fly is the true tsetse, though my men unanimously
stated that its bite was fatal to horses as well as to donkeys. A descriptive abstract of the
tsetse would read thus: "Not much larger than a common house-fly, nearly of the same brown
colour as the honey-bee.  After-part of the body has yellow bars across it. It has a peculiar
buzz, and its bite is death to the horse, ox, and dog.  On man the bite has no effect, neither
has it on wild animals.  When allowed to feed on the hand, it inserts the middle prong of three
portions into which the proboscis divides, it then draws the prong out a little way, and it
assumes a crimson colour as the mandibles come into brisk operation; a slight itching irritation
follows the bite."

The fly which I had under inspection is called mabunga by the natives.  It is much larger than
the common housefly, fully a third larger than the common honey-bee, and its colour more distinctly
marked; its head is black, with a greenish gloss to it; the after-part of the body is marked
by a white line running lengthwise from its junction with the trunk, and on each side of this
white line are two other lines, one of a crimson colour, the other of a light brown.  As for
its buzz, there is no peculiarity in it, it might be mistaken for that of a honey-bee.  When
caught it made desperate efforts to get away, but never attempted to bite. This fly, along
with a score of others, attacked my grey horse, and bit it so sorely in the legs that they
appeared as if bathed in blood.  Hence, I might have been a little vengeful if, with more than
the zeal of an entomologist, I caused it to disclose whatever peculiarities its biting parts
possessed.

In order to bring this fly as life-like as possible before my readers, I may compare its head
to most tiny miniature of an elephant's, because it has a black proboscis and a pair of horny
antennae, which in colour and curve resemble tusks.  The black proboscis, however, the simply
a hollow sheath, which encloses, when not in the act of biting, four reddish and sharp lancets.
Under the microscope these four lancets differ in thickness, two are very thick, the third
is slender, but the fourth, of an opal colour and almost transparent, is exceedingly fine.
This last must be the sucker.  When the fly is about to wound, the two horny antennae are made
to embrace the part, the lancets are unsheathed, and on the instant the incision is performed.
This I consider to be the African "horse-fly.'

The second fly, which sang the tenor notes more nearly resembled in size and description the
tsetse.  It was exceedingly nimble, and it occupied three soldiers nearly an hour to capture
a specimen; and, when it was finally caught, it stung most ravenously the hand, and never ceased
its efforts to attack until it was pinned through. It had three or four white marks across
the after-part of its body; but the biting parts of this fly consisted of two black antennae
and an opal coloured style, which folded away under the neck.  When about to bite, this style
was shot out straight, and the antennae embraced it closely.  After death the fly lost its
distinctive white marks.  Only one of this species did we see at this camp.  The third fly,
called "chufwa," pitched a weak alto-crescendo note, was a third larger than the house fly,
and had long wings.  If this insect sang the feeblest note, it certainly did the most work,
and inflicted the most injury.  Horses and donkeys streamed with blood, and reared and kicked
through the pain.  So determined was it not to be driven before it obtained its fill, that
it was easily despatched; but this dreadful enemy to cattle constantly increased in numbers.
The three species above named are, according to natives, fatal to cattle; and this may perhaps
be the reason why such a vast expanse of first-class pasture is without domestic cattle of
any kind, a few goats only being kept by the villagers. This fly I subsequently found to be
the "tsetse."

On the second morning, instead of proceeding, I deemed it more prudent to await the fourth
caravan.  Burton experimented sufficiently for me on the promised word of the Banyans of Kaole
and Zanzibar, and waited eleven months before he received the promised articles.  As I did
not expect to be much over that time on my errand altogether, it would be ruin, absolute and
irremediable, should I be detained at Unyanyembe so long a time by my caravan. Pending its
arrival, I sought the pleasures of the chase.  I was but a tyro in hunting, I confess, though
I had shot a little on the plains of America and Persia; yet I considered myself a fair shot,
and on game ground, and within a reasonable proximity to game, I doubted not but I could bring
some to camp.

After a march of a mile through the tall grass of the open, we gained the glades between the
jungles.  Unsuccessful here, after ever so much prying into fine hiding-places and lurking
corners, I struck a trail well traversed by small antelope and hartebeest, which we followed.
It led me into a jungle, and down a watercourse bisecting it; but, after following it for an
hour, I lost it, and, in endeavouring to retrace it, lost my way.  However, my pocket-compass
stood me in good stead; and by it I steered for the open plain, in the centre of which stood
the camp.  But it was terribly hard work--this of plunging through an African jungle, ruinous
to clothes, and trying to the cuticle.  In order to travel quickly, I had donned a pair of
flannel pyjamas, and my feet were encased in canvas shoes.  As might be expected, before I
had gone a few paces a branch of the acacia horrida--only one of a hundred such annoyances--caught
the right leg of my pyjamas at the knee, and ripped it almost clean off; succeeding which a
stumpy kolquall caught me by the shoulder, and another rip was the inevitable consequence.
A few yards farther on, a prickly aloetic plant disfigured by a wide tear the other leg of
my pyjamas, and almost immediately I tripped against a convolvulus strong as ratline, and was
made to measure my length on a bed of thorns. It was on all fours, like a hound on a scent,
that I was compelled to travel; my solar topee getting the worse for wear every minute; my
skin getting more and more wounded; my clothes at each step becoming more and more tattered.
Besides these discomforts, there was a pungent, acrid plant which, apart from its strong odorous
emissions, struck me smartly on the face, leaving a burning effect similar to cayenne; and
the atmosphere, pent in by the density of the jungle, was hot and stifling, and the perspiration
transuded through every pore, making my flannel tatters feel as if I had been through a shower.
When I had finally regained the plain, and could breathe free, I mentally vowed that the penetralia
of an African jungle should not be visited by me again, save under most urgent necessity.

The second and third day passed without any news of Maganga. Accordingly, Shaw and Bombay were
sent to hurry him up by all means.  On the fourth morning Shaw and Bombay returned, followed
by the procrastinating Maganga and his laggard people.  Questions only elicited an excuse that
his men had been too sick, and he had feared to tax their strength before they were quite equal
to stand the fatigue.  Moreover he suggested that as they would be compelled to stay one day
more at the camp, I might push on to Kingaru and camp there, until his arrival.  Acting upon
which suggestion I broke camp and started for Kingaru, distant five miles.

On this march the land was more broken, and the caravan first encountered jungle, which gave
considerable trouble to our cart. Pisolitic limestone cropped out in boulders and sheets, and
we began to imagine ourselves approaching healthy highlands, and as if to give confirmation
to the thought, to the north and north-west loomed the purple cones of Udoe, and topmost of
all Dilima Peak, about 1,500 feet in height above the sea level.  But soon after sinking into
a bowl-like valley, green with tall corn, the road slightly deviated from north-west to west,
the country still rolling before us in wavy undulations.

In one of the depressions between these lengthy land-swells stood the village of Kingaru, with
surroundings significant in their aspect of ague and fever.  Perhaps the clouds surcharged
with rain, and the overhanging ridges and their dense forests dulled by the gloom, made the
place more than usually disagreeable, but my first impressions of the sodden hollow, pent in
by those dull woods, with the deep gully close by containing pools of stagnant water, were
by no means agreeable.

Before we could arrange our camp and set the tents up, down poured the furious harbinger of
the Masika season in torrents sufficient to damp the ardor and newborn love for East Africa
I had lately manifested.  However, despite rain, we worked on until our camp was finished and
the property was safely stored from weather and thieves, and we could regard with resignation
the raindrops beating the soil into mud of a very tenacious kind, and forming lakelets and
rivers of our camp-ground.

Towards night, the scene having reached its acme of unpleasantness, the rain ceased, and the
natives poured into camp from the villages in the woods with their vendibles.  Foremost among
these, as if in duty bound, came the village sultan--lord, chief, or head--bearing three measures
of matama and half a measure of rice, of which he begged, with paternal smiles, my acceptance.
But under his smiling mask, bleared eyes, and wrinkled front was visible the soul of trickery,
which was of the cunningest kind.  Responding under the same mask adopted by this knavish elder,
I said, "The chief of Kingaru has called me a rich sultan.  If I am a rich sultan why comes
not the chief with a rich present to me, that he might get a rich return?"  Said he, with another
leer of his wrinkled visage, "Kingaru is poor, there is no matama in the village."  To which
I replied that since there was no matama in the village I would pay him half a shukka, or a
yard of cloth, which would be exactly equivalent to his present; that if he preferred to call
his small basketful a present, I should be content to call my yard of cloth a present.  With
which logic he was fain to be satisfied.

April 1st.--To-day the Expedition suffered a loss in the death of the grey Arab horse presented
by Seyd Burghash, Sultan of Zanzibar. The night previous I had noticed that the horse was suffering.
Bearing in mind what has been so frequently asserted, namely, that no horses could live in
the interior of Africa because of the tsetse, I had him opened, and the stomach, which I believed
to be diseased, examined.  Besides much undigested matama and grass there were found twenty-five
short, thick, white worms, sticking like leeches into the coating of the stomach, while the
intestines were almost alive with the numbers of long white worms.  I was satisfied that neither
man nor beast could long exist with such a mass of corrupting life within him.

In order that the dead carcase might not taint the valley, I had it buried deep in the ground,
about a score of yards from the encampment.  From such a slight cause ensued a tremendous uproar
from Kingaru--chief of the village--who, with his brother-chiefs of neighbouring villages,
numbering in the aggregate two dozen wattled huts, had taken counsel upon the best means of
mulcting the Musungu of a full doti or two of Merikani, and finally had arrived at the conviction
that the act of burying a dead horse in their soil without "By your leave, sir," was a grievous
and fineable fault.  Affecting great indignation at the unpardonable omission, he, Kingaru,
concluded to send to the Musungu four of his young men to say to him that "since you have buried
your horse in my ground, it is well; let him remain there; but you must pay me two doti of
Merikani."  For reply the messengers were told to say to the chief that I would prefer talking
the matter over with himself face to face, if he would condescend to visit me in my tent once
again.  As the village was but a stone's throw from our encampment, before many minutes had
elapsed the wrinkled elder made his appearance at the door of my tent with about half the village
behind him.

The following dialogue which took place will serve to illustrate the tempers of the people
with whom I was about to have a year's trading intercourse:

White Man.--"Are you the great chief of Kingaru?"

Kingaru.--"Huh-uh.  Yes."

W. M.--"The great, great chief?"

Kingaru.--"Huh-uh.  Yes."

W. M.--" How many soldiers have you?"

Kingaru.--" Why?"

W. M.--"How many fighting men have you?"

Kingaru.--"None."

W. M.--"Oh! I thought you might have a thousand men with you, by your going to fine a strong
white man, who has plenty of guns and soldiers, two doti for burying a dead horse."

Kingaru (rather perplexed).--" No; I have no soldiers.  I have only a few young men,"

W. M.--"Why do you come and make trouble, then?"

Kingaru.--"It was not I; it was my brothers who said to me, `Come here, come here, Kingaru,
see what the white man has done!  Has he not taken possession of your soil, in that he has
put his horse into your ground without your permission?  Come, go to him and see by what right.'
Therefore have I come to ask you, who gave you permission to use my soil for a burying-ground?"

W. M.  "I want no man's permission to do what is right.  My horse died; had I left him to fester
and stink in your valley, sickness would visit your village, your water would become unwholesome,
and caravans would not stop here for trade; for they would say, `This is an unlucky spot, let
us go away.'  But enough said: I understand you to say that you do not want him buried in your
ground; the error I have fallen into is easily put right.  This minute my soldiers shall dig
him out again, and cover up the soil as it was before; and the horse shall be left where he
died." (Then shouting to Bombay.) "Ho! Bombay, take soldiers with jembes to dig my horse out
of the ground, drag him to where he died, and make everything ready for a march to-morrow morning."

Kingaru, his voice considerably higher, and his head moving to and fro with emotion, cries
out, "Akuna, akuna, bana!"--"No, no, master!  Let not the white man get angry.  The horse is
dead, and now lies buried; let him remain so, since he is already there, and let us be friends
again."

The Sheikh of Kingaru being thus brought to his senses, we bid each other the friendly "Kwaheri,"
and I was left alone to ruminate over my loss.  Barely half an hour had elapsed, it was 9 P.M.,
the camp was in a semi-doze, when I heard deep groans issuing from one of the animals.  Upon
inquiry as to what animal was suffering, I was surprised to hear that it was my bay horse.
With a bull's-eye lantern, I visited him, and perceived that the pain was located in the stomach,
but whether it was from some poisonous plant he had eaten while out grazing, or from some equine
disease, I did not know.  He discharged copious quantities of loose matter, but there was nothing
peculiar in its colour.  The pain was evidently very great, for his struggles were very violent.
I was up all night, hoping that it was but a temporary effect of some strange and noxious plant;
but at 6 o'clock the next morning, after a short period of great agony, he also died; exactly
fifteen hours after his companion.  When the stomach was opened, it was found that death was
caused by the internal rupture of a large cancer, which had affected the larger half of the
coating of his stomach, and had extended an inch or two up the larynx.  The contents of the
stomach and intestines were deluged with the yellow viscous efflux from the cancer.

I was thus deprived of both my horses, and that within the short space of fifteen hours.  With
my limited knowledge of veterinary science, however, strengthened by the actual and positive
proofs obtained by the dissection of the two stomachs, I can scarcely state that horses can
live to reach Unyanyembe, or that they can travel with ease through this part of East Africa.
But should I have occasion at some future day, I should not hesitate to take four horses with
me, though I should certainly endeavour to ascertain previous to purchase whether they, were
perfectly sound and healthy, and to those travellers who cherish a good horse I would say,
"Try one," and be not discouraged by my unfortunate experiences.

The 1st, 2nd, and 3rd of April passed, and nothing had we heard or seen of the ever-lagging
fourth caravan.  In the meanwhile the list of casualties was being augmented.  Besides the
loss of this precious time, through the perverseness of the chief of the other caravan, and
the loss of my two horses, a pagazi carrying boat-fixtures improved the opportunity, and deserted.
Selim was struck down with a severe attack of ague and fever, and was soon after followed by
the cook, then by the assistant cook and tailor, Abdul Kader.  Finally, before the third day
was over, Bombay had rheumatism, Uledi (Grant's old valet) had a swollen throat, Zaidi had
the flux, Kingaru had the mukunguru; Khamisi, a pagazi, suffered from a weakness of the loins;
Farjalla had a bilious fever; and before night closed Makoviga was very ill. Out of a force
of twenty-five men one had deserted, and ten were on the sick list, and the presentiment that
the ill-looking neighbourhood of Kingaru would prove calamitous to me was verified.

On the 4th April Maganga and his people appeared, after being heralded by musketry-shots and
horn-blowing, the usual signs of an approaching caravan in this land.  His sick men were considerably
improved, but they required one more day of rest at Kingaru.  In the afternoon he came to lay
siege to my generosity, by giving details of Soor Hadji Palloo's heartless cheats upon him;
but I informed him, that since I had left Bagamoyo, I could no longer be generous; we were
now in a land where cloth was at a high premium; that I had no more cloth than I should need
to furnish food for myself and men; that he and his caravan had cost me more money and trouble
than any three caravans I had, as indeed was the case. With this counter-statement he was obliged
to be content.  But I again solved his pecuniary doubts by promising that, if he hurried his
caravan on to Unyanyembe, be should have no cause of complaint.

The 5th of April saw the fourth caravan vanish for once in our front, with a fair promise that,
however fast we should follow, we should not see them the hither side of Sinbamwenni.

The following morning, in order to rouse my people from the sickened torpitude they had lapsed
into, I beat an exhilarating alarum on a tin pan with an iron ladle, intimating that a sofari
was about to be undertaken.  This had a very good effect, judging from the extraordinary alacrity
with which it was responded to. Before the sun rose we started.  The Kingaru villagers were
out with the velocity of hawks for any rags or refuse left behind us.

The long march to Imbiki, fifteen miles, proved that our protracted stay at Kingaru had completely
demoralized my soldiers and pagazis.  Only a few of them had strength enough to reach Imbiki
before night.  The others, attending the laden donkeys, put in an appearance next morning,
in a lamentable state of mind and body. Khamisi--the pagazi with the weak loins--had deserted,
taking with him two goats, the property tent, and the whole of Uledi's personal wealth, consisting
of his visiting dish-dasheh--a long shirt of the Arabic pattern, 10 lbs.  of beads, and a few
fine cloths, which Uledi, in a generous fit, had intrusted to him, while he carried the pagazi's
load, 70 lbs. of Bubu beads.  This defalcation was not to be overlooked, nor should Khamisi
be permitted to return without an effort to apprehend him.  Accordingly Uledi and Ferajji were
despatched in pursuit while we rested at Imbiki, in order to give the dilapidated soldiers
and animals time to recruit.

On the 8th we continued our journey, and arrived at Msuwa.  This march will be remembered by
our caravan as the most fatiguing of all, though the distance was but ten miles.  It was one
continuous jungle, except three interjacent glades of narrow limits, which gave us three breathing
pauses in the dire task of jungle travelling.  The odour emitted from its fell plants was so
rank, so pungently acrid, and the miasma from its decayed vegetation so dense, that I expected
every moment to see myself and men drop down in paroxysms of acute fever.  Happily this evil
was not added to that of loading and unloading the frequently falling packs.  Seven soldiers
to attend seventeen laden donkeys were entirely too small a number while passing through a
jungle; for while the path is but a foot wide, with a wall of thorny plants and creepers bristling
on each side, and projecting branches darting across it, with knots of spikey twigs stiff as
spike-nails, ready to catch and hold anything above four feet in height, it is but reasonable
to suppose that donkeys standing four feet high, with loads measuring across from bale to bale
four feet, would come to grief.  This grief was of frequent recurrence here, causing us to
pause every few minutes for re-arrangements.  So often had this task to be performed, that
the men got perfectly discouraged, and had to bespoken to sharply before they set to work.
By the time I reached Msuwa there was nobody with me and the ten donkeys I drove but Mabruk
the Little, who, though generally stolid, stood to his work like a man. Bombay and Uledi were
far behind, with the most jaded donkeys. Shaw was in charge of the cart, and his experiences
were most bitter, as he informed me he had expended a whole vocabulary of stormy abuse known
to sailors, and a new one which he had invented ex tempore.  He did not arrive until two o'clock
next morning, and was completely worn out.

Another halt was fixed at Msuwa, that we and our animals might recuperate.  The chief of the
village, a white man in everything but colour, sent me and mine the fattest broad-tailed sheep
of his flock, with five measures of matama grain.  The mutton was excellent, unapproachable.
For his timely and needful present I gave him two doti, and amused him with an exhibition of
the wonderful mechanism of the Winchester rifle, and my breechloading revolvers.

He and his people were intelligent enough to comprehend the utility of these weapons at an
emergency, and illustrated in expressive pantomime the powers they possessed against numbers
of people armed only with spears and bows, by extending their arms with an imaginary gun and
describing a clear circle.  "Verily," said they, "the Wasungu are far wiser than the Washensi.
What heads they have!  What wonderful things they make!  Look at their tents, their guns, their
time-pieces, their clothes, and that little rolling thing (the cart) which carries more than
five men,---que!"

On the 10th, recovered from the excessive strain of the last march, the caravan marched out
of Msuwa, accompanied by the hospitable villagers as far as their stake defence, receiving
their unanimous "Kwaheris."  Outside the village the march promised to be less arduous than
between Imbiki and Msuwa.  After crossing a beautiful little plain intersected by a dry gully
or mtoni, the route led by a few cultivated fields, where the tillers greeted us with one grand
unwinking stare, as if fascinated.

Soon after we met one of those sights common in part of the world, to wit a chain slave-gang,
bound east.  The slaves did not appear to be in any way down-hearted on the contrary, they
seemed imbued with the philosophic jollity of the jolly servant of Martin Chuzzlewit. Were
it not for their chains, it would have been difficult to discover master from slave; the physiognomic
traits were alike--the mild benignity with which we were regarded was equally visible on all
faces. The chains were ponderous--they might have held elephants captive; but as the slaves
carried nothing but themselves, their weight could not have been insupportable.

The jungle was scant on this march, and though in some places the packs met with accidents,
they were not such as seriously to retard progress.  By 10 A.M. we were in camp in the midst
of an imposing view of green sward and forest domed by a cloudless sky. We had again pitched
our camp in the wilderness, and, as is the custom of caravans, fired two shots to warn any
Washensi having grain to sell, that we were willing to trade.

Our next halting-place was Kisemo, distant but eleven miles from Msuwa, a village situated
in a populous district, having in its vicinity no less than five other villages, each fortified
by stakes and thorny abattis, with as much fierce independence as if their petty lords were
so many Percys and Douglasses.  Each topped a ridge, or a low hummock, with an assumption of
defiance of the cock-on-its-own-dunghill type.  Between these humble eminences and low ridges
of land wind narrow vales which are favored with the cultivation of matama and Indian corn.
Behind the village flows the Ungerengeri River, an impetuous stream during the Masika season,
capable of overflowing its steep banks, but in the dry season it subsides into its proper status,
which is that of a small stream of very clear sweet water.  Its course from Kisemo is south-west,
then easterly ; it is the main feeder of the Kingani River.

The belles of Kisemo are noted for their vanity in brass wire, which is wound in spiral rings
round their wrists and ankles, and the varieties of style which their hispid heads exhibit;
while their poor lords, obliged to be contented with dingy torn clouts and split ears, show
what wide sway Asmodeus holds over this terrestrial sphere--for it must have been an unhappy
time when the hard-besieged husbands finally gave way before their spouses. Besides these brassy
ornaments on their extremities, and the various hair-dressing styles, the women of Kisemo frequently
wear lengthy necklaces, which run in rivers of colours down their bodies.

A more comical picture is seldom presented than that of one of these highly-dressed females
engaged in the homely and necessary task of grinding corn for herself and family.  The grinding
apparatus consists of two portions: one, a thick pole of hard wood about six feet long, answering
for a pestle; the other, a capacious wooden mortar, three feet in height.

While engaged in setting his tent, Shaw was obliged to move a small flat stone, to drive a
peg into the ground.  The village chief, who saw him do it, rushed up in a breathless fashion,
and replaced the stone instantly, then stood on it in an impressive manner, indicative of the
great importance attached to that stone and location.  Bombay, seeing Shaw standing in silent
wonder at the act, volunteered to ask the chief what was the matter.  The Sheikh solemnly answered,
with a finger pointing downward, "Uganga!" Whereupon I implored him to let me see what was
under the stone. With a graciousness quite affecting he complied.  My curiosity was gratified
with the sight of a small whittled stick, which pinned fast to the ground an insect, the cause
of a miscarriage to a young female of the village.

During the afternoon, Uledi and Ferajji, who had been despatched after the truant Khamisi,
returned with him and all the missing articles.  Khamisi, soon after leaving the road and plunging
into the jungle, where he was mentally triumphing in his booty, was met by some of the plundering
Washensi, who are always on the qui vive for stragglers, and unceremoniously taken to their
village in the woods, and bound to a tree preparatory, to being killed.  Khamisi said that
he asked them why they tied him up, to which they answered, that they were about to kill him,
because he was a Mgwana, whom they were accustomed to kill as soon as they were caught.  But
Uledi and Ferajji shortly after coming upon the scene, both well armed, put an end to the debates
upon Khamisi's fate, by claiming him as an absconding pagazi from the Musungu's camp, as well
as all the articles he possessed at the time of capture.  The robbers did not dispute the claim
for the pagazi, goats, tent, or any other valuable found with him, but intimated that they
deserved a reward for apprehending him.  The demand being considered just, a reward to the
extent of two doti and a fundo, or ten necklaces of beads, was given.

Khamisi, for his desertion and attempted robbery, could not be pardoned without first suffering
punishment.  He had asked at Bagamoyo, before enlisting in my service, an advance of $5 in
money, and had received it, and a load of Bubu beads, no heavier than a pagazis load, had been
given him to carry; he had, therefore, no excuse for desertion.  Lest I should overstep prudence,
however, in punishing him, I convened a court of eight pagazis and four soldiers to sit in
judgment, and asked them to give me their decision as to what should be done.  Their unanimous
verdict was that he was guilty of a crime almost unknown among the Wanyamwezi pagazis, and
as it was likely to give bad repute to the Wanyamwezi carriers, they therefore sentenced him
to be flogged with the "Great Master's" donkey whip, which was accordingly carried out, to
poor Khamisi's crying sorrow.

On the 12th the caravan reached Mussoudi, on the Ungerengeri river. Happily for our patient
donkeys this march was free from all the annoying troubles of the jungle.  Happily for ourselves
also, for we had no more the care of the packs and the anxiety about arriving at camp before
night.  The packs once put firmly on the backs of our good donkeys, they marched into camp--the
road being excellent--without a single displacement or cause for one impatient word, soon after
leaving Kisemo.  A beautiful prospect, glorious in its wild nature, fragrant with its numerous
flowers and variety of sweetly-smelling shrubs, among which I recognised the wild sage, the
indigo plant, &c., terminated only at the foot of Kira Peak and sister cones, which mark the
boundaries between Udoe and Ukami, yet distant twenty miles.  Those distant mountains formed
a not unfit background to this magnificent picture of open plain, forest patches, and sloping
lawns--there was enough of picturesqueness and sublimity in the blue mountains to render it
one complete whole. Suppose a Byron saw some of these scenes, he would be inclined to poetize
in this manner:

Morn dawns, and with it stern Udoe's hills, Dark Urrugum's rocks, and Kira's peak, Robed half
in mist, bedewed with various rills, Arrayed in many a dun and purple streak.

When drawing near the valley of Ungerengeri, granite knobs and protuberances of dazzling quartz
showed their heads above the reddish soil.  Descending the ridge where these rocks were prominent,
we found ourselves in the sable loam deposit of the Ungerengeri, and in the midst of teeming
fields of sugar-cane and matama, Indian corn, muhogo, and gardens of curry, egg, and cucumber
plants.  On the banks of the Ungerengeri flourished the banana, and overtopping it by seventy
feet and more, shot up the stately mparamusi, the rival in beauty of the Persian chenar and
Abyssinian plane.  Its trunk is straight and comely enough for the mainmast of a first, class
frigate, while its expanding crown of leafage is distinguished from all others by its density
and vivid greenness.  There were a score of varieties of the larger kind of trees, whose far-extending
branches embraced across the narrow but swift river.  The depressions of the valley and the
immediate neighbourhood of the river were choked with young forests of tiger-grass and stiff reeds.

Mussoudi is situated on a higher elevation than the average level of the village, and consequently
looks down upon its neighbours, which number a hundred and more.  It is the western extremity
of Ukwere.  On the western bank of the Ungerengeri the territory of the Wakami commences. 
We had to halt one day at Mussoudi because the poverty of the people prevented us from procuring
the needful amount of grain.  The cause of this scantiness in such a fertile and populous valley
was, that the numerous caravans which had preceded us had drawn heavily for their stores for
the upmarches.

On the 14th we crossed the Ungerengeri, which here flows southerly to the southern extremity
of the valley, where it bends easterly as far as Kisemo.  After crossing the river here, fordable
at all times and only twenty yards in breadth, we had another mile of the valley with its excessively
moist soil and rank growth of grass.  It then ascended into a higher elevation, and led through
a forest of mparamusi, tamarind, tamarisk, acacia, and the blooming mimosa.  This ascent was
continued for two hours, when we stood upon the spine of the largest ridge, where we could
obtain free views of the wooded plain below and the distant ridges of Kisemo, which we had
but lately left.  A descent of a few hundred feet terminated in a deep but dry mtoni with a
sandy bed, on the other side of which we had to regain the elevation we had lost, and a similar
country opened into view until we found a newly-made boma with well-built huts of grass rear
a pool of water, which we at once occupied as a halting-place for the night.  The cart gave
us considerable trouble; not even our strongest donkey, though it carried with ease on its
back 196 lbs., could draw the cart with a load of only 225 lbs. weight.

Early on the morning of the 15th we broke camp and started for Mikeseh.  By 8.30 A.M. we were
ascending the southern face of the Kira Peak.  When we had gained the height of two hundred
feet above the level of the surrounding country, we were gratified with a magnificent view
of a land whose soil knows no Sabbath.

After travelling the spine of a ridge abutting against the southern slope of Kira we again
descended into the little valley of Kiwrima, the first settlement we meet in Udoe, where there
is always an abundant supply of water.  Two miles west of Kiwrima is Mikiseh.

On the 16th we reached Ulagalla after a few hours' march. Ulagalla is the name of a district,
or a portion of a district, lying between the mountains of Uruguru, which bound it southerly,
and the mountains of Udoe, lying northerly and parallel with them, and but ten miles apart.
The principal part of the basin thus formed is called Ulagalla.

Muhalleh is the next settlement, and here we found ourselves in the territory of the Waseguhha.
On this march we were hemmed in by mountains--on our left by those of Uruguru, on our right
by those of Udoe and Useguhha--a most agreeable and welcome change to us after the long miles
of monotonous level we had hitherto seen. When tired of looking into the depths of the forest
that still ran on either side of the road, we had but to look up to the mountain's base, to
note its strange trees, its plants and vari-coloured flowers, we had but to raise our heads
to vary this pleasant occupation by observing the lengthy and sinuous spine of the mountains,
and mentally report upon their outline, their spurs, their projections and ravines, their bulging
rocks and deep clefts, and, above all, the dark green woods clothing them from summit to base.
And when our attention was not required for the mundane task of regarding the donkeys' packs,
or the pace of the cautious-stepping pagazis, it was gratifying to watch the vapours play about
the mountain summits--to see them fold into fleecy crowns and fantastic clusters, dissolve,
gather together into a pall that threatened rain, and sail away again before the brightening sun.

At Muhalleh was the fourth caravan under Maganga with three more sick men, who turned with
eager eyes to myself, "the dispenser of medicine," as I approached.  Salvos of small arms greeted
me, and a present of rice and ears of Indian corn for roasting were awaiting my acceptance;
but, as I told Maganga, I would have preferred to hear that his party were eight or ten marches
ahead.  At this camp, also, we met Salim bin Rashid, bound eastward, with a huge caravan carrying
three hundred ivory tusks.  This good Arab, besides welcoming the new comer with a present
of rice, gave me news of Livingstone.  He had met the old traveller at Ujiji, had lived in
the next but to him for two weeks, described him as looking old, with long grey moustaches
and beard, just recovered from severe illness, looking very wan; when fully recovered Livingstone
intended to visit a country called Manyema by way of Marungu.

The valley of the Ungerengeri with Muhalleh exhibits wonderful fertility.  Its crops of matama
were of the tallest, and its Indian corn would rival the best crops ever seen in the Arkansas
bottoms.  The numerous mountain-fed streams rendered the great depth of loam very sloppy, in
consequence of which several accidents occurred before we reached the camp, such as wetting
cloth, mildewing tea, watering sugar, and rusting tools; but prompt attention to these necessary
things saved us from considerable loss.

There was a slight difference noticed in the demeanour and bearing of the Waseguhha compared
with the Wadoe, Wakami, and Wakwere heretofore seen.  There was none of that civility we had
been until now pleased to note: their express desire to barter was accompanied with insolent
hints that we ought to take their produce at their own prices.  If we remonstrated they became
angry; retorting fiercely, impatient of opposition, they flew into a passion, and were glib
in threats.  This strange conduct, so opposite to that of the calm and gentle Wakwere, may
be excellently illustrated by comparing the manner of the hot-headed Greek with that of the
cool and collected German.  Necessity compelled us to purchase eatables of them, and, to the
credit of the country and its productions, be it said, their honey had the peculiar flavour
of that of famed Hymettus.

Following the latitudinal valley of the Ungerengeri, within two hours on the following morning
we passed close under the wall of the capital of Useguhha--Simbamwenni.  The first view of
the walled town at the western foot of the Uruguru mountains, with its fine valley abundantly
beautiful, watered by two rivers, and several pellucid streams of water distilled by the dew
and cloud-enriched heights around, was one that we did not anticipate to meet in Eastern Africa.
In Mazanderan, Persia, such a scene would have answered our expectations, but here it was totally
unexpected.  The town may contain a population of 3,000, having about 1,000 houses; being so
densely crowded, perhaps 5,000 would more closely approximate.  The houses in the town are
eminently African, but of the best type of construction.  The fortifications are on an Arabic
Persic model--combining Arab neatness with Persian plan.  Through a ride of 950 miles in Persia
I never met a town outside of the great cities better fortified than Simbamwenni. In Persia
the fortifications were of mud, even those of Kasvin, Teheran, Ispahan, and Shiraz; those of
Simbamwenni are of stone, pierced with two rows of loopholes for musketry.  The area of the
town is about half a square mile, its plan being quadrangular. Well-built towers of stone guard
each corner; four gates, one facing each cardinal point, and set half way between the several
towers, permit ingress and egress for its inhabitants.  The gates are closed with solid square
doors made of African teak, and carved with the infinitesimally fine and complicated devices
of the Arabs, from which I suspect that the doors were made either at Zanzibar or on the coast,
and conveyed to Simbamwenni plank by plank; yet as there is much communication between Bagamoyo
and Simbamwenni, it is just possible that native artisans are the authors of this ornate workmanship,
as several doors chiselled and carved in the same manner, though not quite so elaborately,
were visible in the largest houses.  The palace of the Sultan is after the style of those on
the coast, with long sloping roof, wide eaves, and veranda in front.

The Sultana is the eldest daughter of the famous Kisabengo, a name infamous throughout the
neighbouring countries of Udoe, Ukami, Ukwere, Kingaru, Ukwenni, and Kiranga-Wanna, for his
kidnapping propensities.  Kisabengo was another Theodore on a small scale. Sprung from humble
ancestry, he acquired distinction for his personal strength, his powers of harangue, and his
amusing and versatile address, by which he gained great ascendency over fugitive slaves, and
was chosen a leader among them.  Fleeing from justice, which awaited him at the hands of the
Zanzibar Sultan, he arrived in Ukami, which extended at that time from Ukwere to Usagara, and
here he commenced a career of conquest, the result of which was the cession by the Wakami of
an immense tract of fertile country, in the valley of the Ungerengeri.  On its most desirable
site, with the river flowing close under the walls, he built his capital, and called it Simbamwenni,
which means "The Lion," or the strongest, City.  In old age the successful robber and kidnapper
changed his name of Kisabengo, which had gained such a notoriety, to Simbamwenni, after his
town; and when dying, after desiring that his eldest daughter should succeed him, he bestowed
the name of the town upon her also, which name of Simbamwenni the Sultana now retains and is
known by.

While crossing a rapid stream, which, as I said before flowed close to the walls, the inhabitants
of Simbamwenni had a fine chance of gratifying their curiosity of seeing the "Great Musungu,"
whose several caravans had preceded him, and who unpardonably, because unlicensed, had spread
a report of his great wealth and power. I was thus the object of a universal stare.  At one
time on the banks there were considerably over a thousand natives going through the several
tenses and moods of the verb "to stare," or exhibiting every phase of the substantive, viz.--the
stare peremptory, insolent, sly, cunning, modest, and casual.  The warriors of the Sultana,
holding in one hand the spear, the bow, and sheaf or musket, embraced with the other their
respective friends, like so many models of Nisus and Euryalus, Theseus and Pirithous, Damon
and Pythias, or Achilles and Patroclus, to whom they confidentially related their divers opinions
upon my dress and colour.  The words "Musungu kuba" had as much charm for these people as the
music of the Pied Piper had for the rats of Hamelin, since they served to draw from within
the walls across their stream so large a portion of the population; and when I continued the
journey to the Ungerengeri, distant four miles, I feared that the Hamelin catastrophe might
have to be repeated before I could rid myself of them.  But fortunately for my peace of mind,
they finally proved vincible under the hot sun, and the distance we had to go to camp.

As we were obliged to overhaul the luggage, and repair saddles, as well as to doctor a few
of the animals, whose backs had by this time become very sore, I determined to halt here two
days. Provisions were very plentiful also at Simbamwenni, though comparatively dear.

On the second day I was, for the first time, made aware that my acclimatization in the ague-breeding
swamps of Arkansas was powerless against the mukunguru of East Africa.  The premonitory symptoms
of the African type were felt in my system at 10 A.M. First, general lassitude prevailed, with
a disposition to drowsiness; secondly, came the spinal ache which, commencing from the loins,
ascended the vertebrae, and extended around the ribs, until it reached the shoulders, where
it settled into a weary pain; thirdly came a chilliness over the whole body, which was quickly
followed by a heavy head, swimming eyes, and throbbing temples, with vague vision, which distorted
and transformed all objects of sight.  This lasted until 10 P.M., and the mukunguru left me,
much prostrated in strength.

The remedy, applied for three mornings in succession after the attack, was such as my experience
in Arkansas had taught me was the most powerful corrective, viz., a quantum of fifteen grains
of quinine, taken in three doses of five grains each, every other hour from dawn to meridian--the
first dose to be taken immediately after the first effect of the purging medicine taken at
bedtime the night previous.  I may add that this treatment was perfectly successful in my case,
and in all others which occurred in my camp.  After the mukunguru had declared itself, there
was no fear, with such a treatment of it, of a second attack, until at least some days afterwards.

On the third day the camp was visited by the ambassadors of Her Highness the Sultana of Simbamwenni,
who came as her representatives to receive the tribute which she regards herself as powerful
enough to enforce.  But they, as well as Madame Simbamwenni, were informed, that as we knew
it was their custom to charge owners of caravans but one tribute, and as they remembered the
Musungu (Farquhar) had paid already, it was not fair that I should have to pay again.  The
ambassadors replied with a "Ngema" (very well), and promised to carry my answer back to their
mistress.  Though it was by no means "very well " in fact, as it will be seen in a subsequent
chapter how the female Simbamwenni took advantage of an adverse fortune which befell me to
pay herself.  With this I close the chapter of incidents experienced during our transit across
the maritime region.

CHAPTER VI.  TO UGOGO.

A valley of despond, and hot-bed of malaria.--Myriads of vermin.-- The Makata swamp.--A sorrowful
experience catching a deserter.--A far-embracing prospect.--Illness of William Farquhar.-Lake
Ugombo.-- A land of promise.--The great Kisesa.--The plague of earwigs.

The distance from Bagamoyo to Simbamwenni we found to be 119 miles, and was accomplished in
fourteen marches.  But these marches, owing to difficulties arising from the Masika season,
and more especially to the lagging of the fourth caravan under Maganga, extended to twenty-nine
days, thus rendering our progress very slow indeed-- but a little more than four miles a-day.
I infer, from what I have seen of the travelling, that had I not been encumbered by the sick
Wanyamwezi porters, I could have accomplished the distance in sixteen days.  For it was not
the donkeys that proved recreant to my confidence; they, poor animals, carrying a weight of
150 lbs. each, arrived at Simbamwenni in first-rate order; but it was Maganga, composed of
greed and laziness, and his weakly-bodied tribe, who were ever falling sick.  In dry weather
the number of marches might have been much reduced.  Of the half-dozen of Arabs or so who preceded
this Expedition along this route, two accomplished the entire distance in eight days.  From
the brief descriptions given of the country, as it day by day expanded to our view, enough
may be gleaned to give readers a fair idea of it. The elevation of Simbamwenni cannot be much
over 1,000 feet above the level, the rise of the land having been gradual.  It being the rainy
season, about which so many ominous statements were doled out to us by those ignorant of the
character of the country, we naturally saw it under its worst aspect; but, even in this adverse
phase of it, with all its depth of black mud, its excessive dew, its dripping and chill grass,
its density of rank jungle, and its fevers, I look back upon the scene with pleasure, for the
wealth and prosperity it promises to some civilized nation, which in some future time will
come and take possession of it. A railroad from Bagamoyo to Simbamwenni might be constructed
with as much ease and rapidity as, and at far less cost than the Union Pacific Railway, whose
rapid strides day by day towards completion the world heard of and admired.  A residence in
this part of Africa, after a thorough system of drainage had been carried out, would not be
attended with more discomfort than generally follows upon the occupation of new land.  The
temperature at this season during the day never exceeded 85 degrees Fahrenheit.  The nights
were pleasant-- too cold without a pair of blankets for covering; and, as far as Simbamwenni,
they were without that pest which is so dreadful on the Nebraska and Kansas prairies, the mosquito.
The only annoyances I know of that would tell hard on the settler is the determined ferocity
of the mabungu, or horse-fly; the chufwa, &c., already described, which, until the dense forests
and jungles were cleared, would be certain to render the keeping of domestic cattle unremunerative.

Contrary to expectation the Expedition was not able to start at the end of two days; the third
and the fourth days were passed miserably enough in the desponding valley of Ungerengeri. 
This river, small as it is in the dry seasons, becomes of considerable volume and power during
the Masika, as we experienced to our sorrow.  It serves as a drain to a score of peaks and
two long ranges of mountains; winding along their base, it is the recipient of the cascades
seen flashing during the few intervals of sunlight, of all the nullahs and ravines which render
the lengthy frontage of the mountain slopes so rugged and irregular, until it glides into the
valley of Simbamwenni a formidable body of water, opposing a serious obstacle to caravans without
means to build bridges; added to which was an incessant downfall of rain--such a rain as shuts
people in-doors and renders them miserable and unamiable--a real London rain--an eternal drizzle
accompanied with mist and fog.  When the sun shone it appeared but a pale image of itself,
and old pagazis, wise in their traditions as old whaling captains, shook their heads ominously
at the dull spectre, and declared it was doubtful if the rain would cease for three weeks yet.

The site of the caravan camp on the hither side of the Ungerengeri was a hot-bed of malaria,
unpleasant to witness--an abomination to memory.  The filth of generations of pagazis had gathered
innumerable hosts of creeping things.  Armies of black, white, and red ants infest the stricken
soil; centipedes, like worms, of every hue, clamber over shrubs and plants; hanging to the
undergrowth are the honey-combed nests of yellow-headed wasps with stings as harmful as scorpions;
enormous beetles, as large as full-grown mice, roll dunghills over the ground; of all sorts,
shapes, sizes, and hues are the myriad-fold vermin with which the ground teems; in short, the
richest entomological collection could not vie in variety and numbers with the species which
the four walls of my tent enclosed from morning until night.

On the fifth morning, or the 23rd April, the rain gave us a few hours' respite, during which
we managed to wade through the Stygian quagmire reeking with noisomeness to the inundated river-bank.
The soldiers commenced at 5 A.M. to convey the baggage across from bank to bank over a bridge
which was the most rustic of the rustic kind.  Only an ignorant African would have been satisfied
with its small utility as a means to cross a deep and rapid body of water.  Even for light-footed
Wanyamwezi pagazis it was anything but comfortable to traverse.  Only a professional tight-rope
performer could have carried a load across with ease. To travel over an African bridge requires,
first, a long leap from land to the limb of a tree (which may or may not be covered by water),
followed by a long jump ashore.  With 70 lbs. weight on his back, the carrier finds it difficult
enough.  Sometimes he is assisted by ropes extemporized from the long convolvuli which hang
from almost every tree, but not always, these being deemed superfluities by the Washensi.

Fortunately the baggage was transferred without a single accident, and though the torrent was
strong, the donkeys were dragged through the flood by vigorous efforts and much objurgation
without a casualty.  This performance of crossing the Ungerengeri occupied fully five hours,
though energy, abuse, and fury enough were expended for an army.

Reloading and wringing our clothes dry, we set out from the horrible neighbourhood of the river,
with its reek and filth, in a northerly direction, following a road which led up to easy and
level ground.  Two obtruding hills were thus avoided on our left, and after passing them we
had shut out the view of the hateful valley.

I always found myself more comfortable and lighthearted while travelling than when chafing
and fretting in camp at delays which no effort could avoid, and consequently I fear that some
things, while on a march, may be tinted somewhat stronger than their appearance or merit may
properly warrant.  But I thought that the view opening before us was much more agreeable than
the valley of Simbamwenni with all its indescribable fertility.  It was a series of glades
opening one after another between forest clumps of young trees, hemmed in distantly by isolated
peaks and scattered mountains.  Now and again, as we crested low eminences we caught sight
of the blue Usagara mountains, bounding the horizon westerly and northerly, and looked down
upon a vast expanse of plain which lay between.

At the foot of the lengthy slope, well-watered by bubbling springs and mountain rills, we found
a comfortable khambi with well-made huts, which the natives call Simbo.  It lies just two hours
or five miles north-west of the Ungerengeri crossing.  The ground is rocky, composed principally
of quartzose detritus swept down by the constant streams.  In the neighbourhood of these grow
bamboo, the thickest of which was about two and a half inches in diameter; the "myombo," a
very shapely tree, with a clean trunk like an ash, the "imbite," with large, fleshy leaves
like the "mtamba," sycamore, plum-tree, the "ugaza," ortamarisk, and the "mgungu," a tree containing
several wide branches with small leaves clustered together in a clump, and the silk-cotton tree.

Though there are no villages or settlements in view of Simbo Khambi, there are several clustered
within the mountain folds, inhabited by Waseguhha somewhat prone to dishonest acts and murder.

The long broad plain visible from the eminences crossed between the Ungerengeri and Simbo was
now before us, and became known to sorrowful memory subsequently, as the Makata Valley.  The
initial march was from Simbo, its terminus at Rehenneko, at the base of the Usagara mountains,
six marches distant.  The valley commences with broad undulations, covered with young forests
of bamboo, which grow thickly along the streams, the dwarf fan-palm, the stately Palmyra, and
the mgungu.  These undulations soon become broken by gullies containing water, nourishing dense
crops of cane reeds and broad- bladed grass, and, emerging from this district, wide savannah
covered with tall grass open into view, with an isolated tree here and there agreeably breaking
the monotony of the scene.  The Makata is a wilderness containing but one village of the Waseguhha
throughout its broad expanse.  Venison, consequently, abounds within the forest clumps, and
the kudu, hartebeest, antelope, and zebra may be seen at early dawn emerging into the open
savannahs to feed.  At night, the cyn-hyaena prowls about with its hideous clamour seeking
for sleeping prey, man or beast.

The slushy mire of the savannahs rendered marching a work of great difficulty; its tenacious
hold of the feet told terribly on men and animals.  A ten-mile march required ten hours, we
were therefore compelled to camp in the middle of this wilderness, and construct a new khambi,
a measure which was afterwards adopted by half a dozen caravans.

The cart did not arrive until nearly midnight, and with it, besides three or four broken-down
pagazis, came Bombay with the dolorous tale, that having put his load--consisting of the property
tent, one large American axe, his two uniform coats, his shirts, beads and cloth, powder, pistol,
and hatchet--on the ground, to go and assist the cart out of a quagmire, he had returned to
the place where he had left it and could not find it, that he believed that some thieving Washensi,
who always lurk in the rear of caravans to pick up stragglers, had decamped with it.  Which
dismal tale told me at black midnight was not received at all graciously, but rather with most
wrathful words, all of which the penitent captain received as his proper due.  Working myself
into a fury,, I enumerated his sins to him; he had lost a goat at Muhalleh, he had permitted
Khamisi to desert with valuable property at Imbiki; he had frequently shown culpable negligence
in not looking after the donkeys, permitting them to be tied up at night without seeing that
they had water, and in the mornings, when about to march, he preferred to sleep until 7 o'clock,
rather than wake up early and saddle the donkeys, that we might start at 6 o'clock; he had
shown of late great love for the fire, cowering like a bloodless man before it, torpid and
apathetic; he had now lost the property-tent in the middle of the Masika season, by which carelessness
the cloth bales would rot and become valueless; he had lost the axe which I should want at
Ujiji to construct my boat; and finally, he had lost a pistol and hatchet, and a flaskful of
the best powder. Considering all these things, how utterly incompetent he was to be captain,
I would degrade him from his office and appoint Mabruki Burton instead.  Uledi, also, following
the example of Bombay, instead of being second captain, should give no orders to any soldiers
in future, but should himself obey those given by Mabruki--the said Mabruki being worth a dozen
Bombays, and two dozen Uledis; and so he was dismissed with orders to return at daylight to
find the tent, axe, pistol, powder, and hatchet.

The next morning the caravan, thoroughly fatigued with the last day's exertions, was obliged
to halt.  Bombay was despatched after the lost goods; Kingaru, Mabruki the Great, and Mabruki
the Little were despatched to bring back three doti-worth of grain, on which we were to subsist
in the wilderness.

Three days passed away and we were still at camp, awaiting, with what patience we possessed,
the return of the soldiers.  In the meantime provisions ran very low, no game could be procured,
the birds were so wild.  Two days shooting procured but two potfuls of birds, consisting of
grouse, quail, and pigeons.  Bombay returned unsuccessfully from his search after the missing
property, and suffered deep disgrace.

On the fourth day I despatched Shaw with two more soldiers, to see what had become of Kingaru
and the two Mabrukis.  Towards night he returned completely prostrated, with a violent attack
of the mukunguru, or ague; but bringing the missing soldiers, who were thus left to report
for themselves.

With most thankful hearts did we quit our camp, where so much anxiety of mind and fretfulness
had been suffered, not heeding a furious rain, which, after drenching us all night, might have
somewhat damped our ardor for the march under other circumstances. The road for the first mile
led over reddish ground, and was drained by gentle slopes falling east and west; but, leaving
the cover of the friendly woods, on whose eastern margin we had been delayed so long, we emerged
into one of the savannahs, whose soil during the rain is as soft as slush and tenacious as
thick mortar, where we were all threatened with the fate of the famous Arkansas traveller,
who had sunk so low in one of the many quagmires in Arkansas county, that nothing but his tall
"stove-pipe" hat was left visible.

Shaw was sick, and the whole duty of driving the foundering caravan devolved upon myself. 
The Wanyamwezi donkeys stuck in the mire as if they were rooted to it.  As fast as one was
flogged from his stubborn position, prone to the depths fell another, giving me a Sisyphean
labour, which was maddening trader pelting rain, assisted by such men as Bombay and Uledi,
who could not for a whole skin's sake stomach the storm and mire.  Two hours of such a task
enabled me to drag my caravan over a savannah one mile and a half broad; and barely had I finished
congratulating myself over my success before I was halted by a deep ditch, which, filled with
rain-water from the inundated savannahs, had become a considerable stream, breast-deep, flowing
swiftly into the Makata.  Donkeys had to be unloaded, led through a torrent, and loaded again
on the other bank--an operation which consumed a full hour.

Presently, after straggling through a wood clump, barring our progress was another stream,
swollen into a river.  The bridge being swept away, we were obliged to swim and float our baggage
over, which delayed us two hours more.  Leaving this second river-bank, we splashed, waded,
occasionally half-swimming, and reeled through mire, water-dripping grass and matama stalks,
along the left bank of the Makata proper, until farther progress was effectually prevented
for that day by a deep bend of the river, which we should be obliged to cross the next day.

Though but six miles were traversed during that miserable day, the march occupied ten hours.

Half dead with fatigue, I yet could feel thankful that it was not accompanied by fever, which
it seemed a miracle to avoid; for if ever a district was cursed with the ague, the Makata wilderness
ranks foremost of those afflicted.  Surely the sight of the dripping woods enveloped in opaque
mist, of the inundated country with lengthy swathes of tiger-grass laid low by the turbid flood,
of mounds of decaying trees and canes, of the swollen river and the weeping sky, was enough
to engender the mukunguru!  The well-used khambi, and the heaps of filth surrounding it, were
enough to create a cholera!

The Makata, a river whose breadth during the dry season is but forty feet, in the Masika season
assumes the breadth, depth, and force of an important river.  Should it happen to be an unusually
rainy season, it inundates the great plain which stretches on either side, and converts it
into a great lake.  It is the main feeder of the Wami river, which empties into the sea between
the ports of Saadani and Whinde.  About ten miles north-east of the Makata crossing, the Great
Makata, the Little Makata, a nameless creek, and the Rudewa river unite; and the river thus
formed becomes known as the Wami.  Throughout Usagara the Wami is known as the Mukondokwa.
Three of these streams take their rise from the crescent-like Usagara range, which bounds the
Makata plain south and south-westerly; while the Rudewa rises in the northern horn of the same
range.

So swift was the flow of the Makata, and so much did its unsteady bridge, half buried in the
water, imperil the safety of the property, that its transfer from bank to bank occupied fully
five hours.  No sooner had we landed every article on the other side, undamaged by the water,
than the rain poured down in torrents that drenched them all, as if they had been dragged through
the river.  To proceed through the swamp which an hour's rain had formed was utterly out of
the question.  We were accordingly compelled to camp in a place where every hour furnished
its quota of annoyance.  One of the Wangwana soldiers engaged at Bagamoyo, named Kingaru, improved
an opportunity to desert with another Mgwana's kit.  My two detectives, Uledi (Grant's valet),
and Sarmean, were immediately despatched in pursuit, both being armed with American breech-loaders.
They went about their task with an adroitness and celerity which augured well for their success.
In an hour they returned with the runaway, having found him hidden in the house of a Mseguhha
chief called Kigondo, who lived about a mile from the eastern bank of the river, and who had
accompanied Uledi and Sarmean to receive his reward, and render an account of the incident.

Kigondo said, when he had been seated, "I saw this man carrying a bundle, and running hard,
by which I knew that he was deserting you.  We (my wife and 1) were sitting in our little watch-hut,
watching our corn; and, as the road runs close by, this man was obliged to come close to us.
We called to him when he was near, saying, `Master, where are you going so fast?  Are you deserting
the Musungu, for we know you belong to him, since you bought from us yesterday two doti worth
of meat?'  'Yes,'  said he, 'I am running away; I want to get to Simbamwenni.  If you will
take me there, I will give you a doti.'  We said to him then, `Come into our house, and we
will talk it over quietly.  When he was in our house in an inner room, we locked him up, and
went out again to the watch; but leaving word with the women to look out for him. We knew that,
if you wanted him, you would send askari (soldiers) after him.  We had but lit our pipes when
we saw two men armed with short guns, and having no loads, coming along the road, looking now
and then on the ground, as if they were looking at footmarks.  We knew them to be the men we
were expecting; so we hailed them, and said, `Masters, what are ye looking for?' \ They said,
'We are looking for a man who has deserted our master. Here are his footsteps.  If you have
been long in your hut you must have seen him, Can you tell us where he is?'  We said, 'yes;
he is in our house.  If you will come with us, we will give him up to you; but your master
must give us something for catching him.'"

As Kigondo had promised to deliver Kingaru up, there remained nothing further to do for Uledi
and Sarmean but to take charge of their prisoner, and bring him and his captors to my camp
on the western bank of the Makata.  Kingaru received two dozen lashes, and was chained; his
captor a doti, besides five khete of red coral beads for his wife.

That down-pour of rain which visited us the day we crossed the Makata proved the last of the
Masika season.  As the first rainfall which we had experienced occurred on the 23rd March,
and the last on the 30th April, its duration was thirty-nine days.  The seers of Bagamoyo had
delivered their vaticinations concerning this same Masika with solemnity.  "For forty days,"
said they, "rain would fall incessantly;" whereas we had but experienced eighteen days' rain.
Nevertheless, we were glad that it was over, for we were tired of stopping day after day to
dry the bales and grease the tools and ironware, and of seeing all things of cloth and leather
rot visibly before our eyes.

The 1st of May found us struggling through the mire and water of the Makata with a caravan
bodily sick, from the exertion and fatigue of crossing so many rivers and wading through marshes.
Shaw was still suffering from his first mukunguru; Zaidi, a soldier, was critically ill with
the small-pox; the kichuma-chuma, "little irons," had hold of Bombay across the chest, rendering
him the most useless of the unserviceables; Mabruk Saleem, a youth of lusty frame, following
the example of Bombay, laid himself down on the marshy ground, professing his total inability
to breast the Makata swamp; Abdul Kader, the Hindi tailor and adventurer--the weakliest of
mortal bodies--was ever ailing for lack of "force," as he expressed it in French, i.e. "strength,"
ever indisposed to work, shiftless, mock-sick, but ever hungry. "Oh! God," was the cry of my
tired soul, "were all the men of my Expedition like this man I should be compelled to return.
Solomon was. wise perhaps from inspiration, perhaps from observation; I was becoming wise by
experience, and I was compelled to observe that when mud and wet sapped the physical energy
of the lazily-inclined, a dog-whip became their backs, restoring them to a sound--some-times
to an extravagant activity.

For thirty miles from our camp was the Makata plain an extensive swamp.  The water was on an
average one foot in depth; in some places we plunged into holes three, four, and even five
feet deep. Plash, splash, plash, splash, were the only sounds we heard from the commencement
of the march until we found the bomas occupying the only dry spots along the line of march.
This kind of work continued for two days, until we came in sight of the Rudewa river, another
powerful stream with banks brimful of rushing rain-water. Crossing a branch of the Rudewa,
and emerging from the dank reedy grass crowding the western bank, the view consisted of an
immense sheet of water topped by clumps of grass tufts and foliage of thinly scattered trees,
bounded ten or twelve miles off by the eastern front of the Usagara mountain range.  The acme
of discomfort and vexation was realized on the five-mile march from the Rudewa branch.  As
myself and the Wangwana appeared with the loaded donkeys, the pagazis were observed huddled
on a mound.  When asked if the mound was the camp, they replied "No."  "Why, then, do you stop
here?"--Ugh! water plenty!!"  "One drew a line across his loins to indicate the depth of water
before us, another drew a line  across his chest, another across his throat another held his
hand over his head, by which he meant that we should have to swim. Swim five miles through
a reedy marsh!  It was impossible; it was also impossible that such varied accounts could all
be correct. Without hesitation, therefore, I ordered the Wangwana to proceed with the animals.
After three hours of splashing through four feet of water we reached dry land, and had traversed
the swamp of Makata.  But not without the swamp with its horrors having left a durable impression
upon our minds; no one was disposed to forget its fatigues, nor the nausea of travel which
it almost engendered.  Subsequently, we had to remember its passage still more vividly, and
to regret that we had undertaken the journey during the Masika season, when the animals died
from this date by twos and threes, almost every day, until but five sickly worn-out beasts
remained; when the Wangwana, soldiers, and pagazis sickened of diseases innumerable; when I
myself was finally compelled to lie a-bed with an attack of acute dysentery which brought me
to the verge of the grave.  I suffered more, perhaps, than I might have done had I taken the
proper medicine, but my over-confidence in that compound, called "Collis Brown's Chlorodyne,"
delayed the cure which ultimately resulted from a judicious use of Dover's powder. In no one
single case of diarrhoea or acute dysentery had this "Chlorodyne," about which so much has
been said, and written, any effect of lessening the attack whatever, though I used three bottles.
To the dysentery contracted during, the transit of the Makata swamp, only two fell victims,
and those were a pagazi and my poor little dog "Omar," my companion from India.

The only tree of any prominence in the Makata valley was the Palmyra palm (Borassus flabelliformis),
and this grew in some places in numbers sufficient to be called a grove; the fruit was not
ripe while we passed, otherwise we might have enjoyed it as a novelty.  The other vegetation
consisted of the several species of thorn bush, and the graceful parachute-topped and ever-green
mimosa.

The 4th of May we were ascending a gentle slope towards the important village of Rehenneko,
the first village near to which we encamped in Usagara.  It lay at the foot of the mountain,
and its plenitude and mountain air promised us comfort and health.  It was a square, compact
village, surrounded by a thick wall of mud, enclosing cone-topped huts, roofed with bamboo
and holcus-stalks; and contained a population of about a thousand souls.  It has several wealthy
and populous neighbours, whose inhabitants are independent enough in their manner, but not
unpleasantly so. The streams are of the purest water, fresh, and pellucid as crystal, bubbling
over round pebbles and clean gravel, with a music delightful to hear to the traveller in search
of such a sweetly potable element.

The bamboo grows to serviceable size in the neighbourhood of Rehenneko, strong enough for tent
and banghy poles; and in numbers sufficient to supply an army.  The mountain slopes are densely
wooded with trees that might supply very good timber for building purposes.

We rested four days at this pleasant spot, to recruit ourselves, and to allow the sick and
feeble time to recover a little before testing their ability in the ascent of the Usagara mountains.

The 8th of May saw us with our terribly jaded men and animals winding up the steep slopes of
the first line of hills; gaining the summit of which we obtained a view remarkably grand, which
exhibited as in a master picture the broad valley of the Makata, with its swift streams like
so many cords of silver, as the sunshine played on the unshadowed reaches of water, with its
thousands of graceful palms adding not a little to the charm of the scene, with the great wall
of the Uruguru and Uswapanga mountains dimly blue, but sublime in their loftiness and immensity--forming
a fit background to such an extensive, far-embracing prospect.

Turning our faces west, we found ourselves in a mountain world, fold rising above fold, peak
behind peak, cone jostling cone; away to the north, to the west, to the south, the mountain
tops rolled like so many vitrified waves; not one adust or arid spot was visible in all this
scene.  The diorama had no sudden changes or striking contrasts, for a universal forest of
green trees clothed every peak, cone, and summit.

To the men this first day's march through the mountain region of Usagara was an agreeable interlude
after the successive journey over the flats and heavy undulations of the maritime region, but
to the loaded and enfeebled animals it was most trying.  We were minus two by the time we had
arrived at our camp, but seven miles from Rehenneko, our first instalment of the debt we owed
to Makata. Water, sweet and clear, was abundant in the deep hollows of the mountains, flowing
sometimes over beds of solid granite, sometimes over a rich red sandstone, whose soft substance
was soon penetrated by the aqueous element, and whose particles were swept away constantly
to enrich the valley below; and in other ravines it dashed,, and roared, miniature thunder,
as it leaped over granite boulders and quartz rock.

The 9th of May, after another such an up-and-down course, ascending hills and descending into
the twilight depths of deepening valleys, we came suddenly upon the Mukondokwa, and its narrow
pent-up valley crowded with rank reedy grass, cane, and thorny bushes; and rugged tamarisk
which grappled for existence with monster convolvuli, winding their coils around their trunks
with such tenacity and strength that the tamarisk seemed grown but for their support.

The valley was barely a quarter of a mile broad in some places-- at others it widened to about
a mile.  The hills on either side shot up into precipitous slopes, clothed ,with mimosa, acacia,
and tamarisk, enclosing a river and valley whose curves and folds were as various as a serpent's.

Shortly after debouching into the Mukondokwa valley, we struck the road traversed by Captains
Buxton and Speke in 1857, between Mbumi and Kadetamare (the latter place should be called Misonghi,
Kadetamare being but the name of a chief).  After following the left bank of the Mukondokwa,
during which our route diverged to every point from south-east to west, north and northeast,
for about an hour, we came to the ford.  Beyond the ford, a short half-hour's march, we came
to Kiora.

At this filthy village of Kiora, which was well-grounded with goat-dung, and peopled with a
wonderful number of children for a hamlet that did not number twenty families, with a hot sun
pouring on the limited open space, with a fury that exceeded 128 degrees Fahrenheit; which
swarmed with flies and insects of known and unknown species; I found, as I had been previously
informed, the third caravan, which had started out of Bagamoyo so well fitted and supplied.
The leader, who was no other than the white man Farquhar, was sick-a-bed with swollen legs
(Bright's disease), unable to move.

As he heard my voice, Farquhar staggered out of his tent, so changed from my spruce mate who
started from Bagamoyo, that I hardly knew him at first.  His legs were ponderous, elephantine,
since his leg-illness was of elephantiasis, or dropsy.  His face was of a deathly pallor, for
he had not been out of his tent for two weeks.

A breezy hill, overlooking the village of Kiora, was chosen by me for my camping-ground, and
as soon as the tents were pitched, the animals attended to, and a boma made of thorn bushes,
Farquhar was carried up by four men into my tent.  Upon being questioned as to the cause of
his illness, he said he did not know what had caused it.  He had no pain, he thought, anywhere.
I asked, "Do you not sometimes feel pain on the right side?"--"Yes, I think I do; but I don't
know."--" Nor over the left nipple sometimes--a quick throbbing, with a shortness of breath?"--"
Yes, I think I have. I know I breathe quick sometimes." He said his only trouble was in the
legs, which were swollen to an immense size.  Though he had a sound appetite, he yet felt weak
in the legs.

From the scant information of the disease and its peculiarities, as given by Farquhar himself,
I could only make out, by studying a little medical book I had with me, that "a swelling of
the legs, and sometimes of the body, might result from either heart, liver, or kidney disease."
But I did not know to what to ascribe the disease, unless it was to elephantiasis--a disease
most common in Zanzibar; nor did I know how to treat it in a man who, could not tell me whether
he felt pain in his head or in his back, in his feet or in his chest.

It was therefore fortunate for me that I overtook him at Kiora; though he was about to prove
a sore incumbrance to me, for he was not able to walk, and the donkey-carriage, after the rough
experience of the Makata valley, was failing.  I could not possibly leave him at Kiora, death
would soon overtake him there; but how long I could convey a man in such a state, through a
country devoid of carriage, was a question to be resolved by circumstances.

On the 11th of May, the third and fifth caravans, now united, followed up the right bank of
the Mukondokwa, through fields of holcus, the great Mukondokwa ranges rising in higher altitude
as we proceeded west, and enfolding us in the narrow river valley round about.  We left Muniyi
Usagara on our right, and soon after found hill-spurs athwart our road, which we were obliged
to ascend and descend.

A march of eight miles from the ford of Misonghi brought us to another ford of the Mukondokwa,
where we bid a long adieu to Burton's road, which led up to the Goma pass and up the steep
slopes of Rubeho.  Our road left the right bank and followed the left over a country quite
the reverse of the Mukondokwa Valley, enclosed between mountain ranges.  Fertile soils and
spontaneous vegetation, reeking with miasma and overpowering from their odour, we had exchanged
for a drouthy wilderness of aloetic and cactaceous plants, where the kolquall and several thorn
bushes grew paramount.

Instead of the tree-clad heights, slopes and valleys, instead of cultivated fields, we saw
now the confines of uninhabited wilderness. The hill-tops were bared of their bosky crowns,
and revealed their rocky natures bleached white by rain and sun.  Nguru Peak, the loftiest
of the Usagara cones, stood right shoulderwards of us as we ascended the long slope of dun-grey
soil which rose beyond the brown Mukondokwa on the left.

At the distance of two miles from the last ford, we found a neat khambi, situated close to
the river, where it first broke into a furious rapid.

The next morning the caravan was preparing for the march, when I was informed that the "Bana
Mdogo"--little master--Shaw, had not yet arrived with the cart, and the men in charge of it.
Late the previous night I had despatched one donkey for Shaw, who had said he was too ill to
walk, and another for the load that was on the cart; and had retired satisfied that they would
soon arrive.  My conclusion, when I learned in the morning that the people had not yet come
in, was that Shaw was not aware that for five days we should have to march through a wilderness
totally uninhabited.  I therefore despatched Chowpereh, a Mgwana soldier, with the following
note to him:--"You will, upon receipt of this order pitch the cart into the nearest ravine,
gully, or river, as well as all the extra pack saddles; and come at once, for God's sake, for
we must not starve here!"

One, two, three, and four hours were passed by me in the utmost impatience, waiting, but in
vain, for Shaw.  Having a long march before us, I could wait no longer, but went to meet his
party myself.  About a quarter of mile from the ford I met the van of the laggards--stout burly
Chowpereh--and, O cartmakers, listen! he carried the cart on his head--wheels, shafts, body,
axle, and all complete; he having found that carrying it was much easier than drawing it. 
The sight was such a damper to my regard for it as an experiment, that the cart was wheeled
into the depths of the tall reeds, and there left.  The central figure was Shaw himself, riding
at a gait which seemed to leave it doubtful on my mind whether he or his animal felt most sleepy.
Upon expostulating with him for keeping the caravan so long waiting when there was a march
on hand, in a most peculiar voice--which he always assumed when disposed to be ugly-tempered--he
said he had done the best he could; but as I had seen the solemn pace at which he rode, I felt
dubious about his best endeavours; and of course there was a little scene, but the young European
mtongi of an East African expedition must needs sup with the fellows he has chosen.

We arrived at Madete at 4 P.M., minus two donkeys, which had stretched their weary limbs in
death.  We had crossed the Mukondokwa about 3 P.M., and after taking its bearings and course,
I made sure that its rise took place near a group of mountains about forty miles north by west
of Nguru Peak.  Our road led W.N.W., and at this place finally diverged from the river.

On the 14th, after a march of seven miles over hills whose sandstone and granite formation
cropped visibly here and there above the surface, whose stony and dry aspect seemed reflected
in every bush and plant, and having gained an altitude of about eight hundred feet above the
flow of the Mukondokwa, we sighted the Lake of Ugombo--a grey sheet of water lying directly
at the foot of the hill, from whose summit we gazed at the scene.  The view was neither beautiful
nor pretty, but what I should call refreshing; it afforded a pleasant relief to the eyes fatigued
from dwelling on the bleak country around.  Besides, the immediate neighbourhood of the lake
was too tame to call forth any enthusiasm; there were no grandly swelling mountains, no smiling
landscapes--nothing but a dun-brown peak, about one thousand feet high above the surface of
the lake at its western extremity, from which the lake derived its name, Ugombo; nothing but
a low dun-brown irregular range, running parallel with its northern shore at the distance of
a mile; nothing but a low plain stretching from its western shore far away towards the Mpwapwa
Mountains and Marenga Mkali, then apparent to us from our coign of vantage, from which extensive
scene of dun-brownness we were glad to rest our eyes on the quiet grey water beneath.

Descending from the summit of the range, which bounded the lake east for about four hundred
feet, we travelled along the northern shore.  The time occupied in the journey from the eastern
to the western extremity was exactly one hour and thirty minutes.

As this side represents its greatest length I conclude that the lake is three miles long by
two miles greatest breadth.  The immediate shores of the lake on all sides, for at least fifty
feet from the water's edge, is one impassable morass nourishing rank reeds and rushes, where
the hippopotamus' ponderous form has crushed into watery trails the soft composition of the
morass as he passes from the lake on his nocturnal excursions; the lesser animals; such as
the "mbogo" (buffalo), the "punda-terra" (zebra); the " twiga" (giraffe), the boar, the kudu,
the hyrax or coney and the antelope; come here also to quench their thirst by night.  The surface
of the lake swarms with an astonishing variety of water-fowl; such as black swan, duck, ibis
sacra cranes, pelicans; and soaring above on the look-out for their prey are fish-eagles and
hawks, while the neighbourhood is resonant with the loud chirps of the guinea-fowls calling
for their young, with the harsh cry of the toucan, the cooing of the pigeon, and the "to-whit,
to-whoo" of the owl.  From the long grass in its vicinity also issue the grating and loud cry
of the florican, woodcock, and grouse.

Being obliged to halt here two days, owing to the desertion of the Hindi cooper Jako with one
of my best carbines, I improved the opportunity of exploring the northern and southern shores
of the lake.  At the rocky foot of a low, humpy hill on the northern side, about fifteen feet
above the present surface of the water I detected in most distinct and definite lines the agency
of waves. From its base could be traced clear to the edge of the dank morass tiny lines of
comminuted shell as plainly marked as the small particles which lie in rows on a beech after
a receding tide. There is no doubt that the wave-marks on the sandstone might have been traced
much higher by one skilled in geology; it was only its elementary character that was visible
to me.  Nor do I entertain the least doubt, after a two days' exploration of the neighbourhood,
especially of the low plain at the western end, that this Lake of Ugombo is but the tail of
what was once a large body of water equal in extent to the Tanganika; and, after ascending
half way up Ugombo Peak, this opinion was confirmed when I saw the long-depressed line of plain
at its base stretching towards the Mpwapwa Mountains thirty miles off, and thence round to
Marenga Mkali, and covering all that extensive surface of forty miles in breadth, and an unknown
length.  A depth of twelve feet more, I thought, as I gazed upon it, would give the lake a
length of thirty miles, and a breadth of ten.  A depth of thirty feet would increase its length
over a hundred miles, and give it a breadth of fifty, for such was the level nature of the
plain that stretched west of Ugombo, and north of Marenga Mkali.  Besides the water of the
lake partook slightly of the bitter nature of the Matamombo creek, distant fifteen miles, and
in a still lesser degree of that of Marenga Mkali, forty miles off.

Towards the end of the first day of our halt the Hindi cooper Jako arrived in camp, alleging
as an excuse, that feeling fatigued he had fallen asleep in some bushes a few feet from the
roadside. Having been the cause of our detention in the hungry wilderness of Ugombo, I was
not in a frame of mind to forgive him; so, to prevent any future truant tricks on his part,
I was under the necessity of including him with the chained gangs of runaways.

Two more of our donkeys died, and to prevent any of the valuable baggage being left behind,
I was obliged to send Farquhar off on my own riding-ass to the village of Mpwapwa, thirty miles
off, under charge of Mabruki Burton.

To save the Expedition from ruin, I was reluctantly compelled to come to the conclusion that
it were better for me, for him, and concerned, that he be left with some kind chief of a village,
with a six months' supply of cloth and beads, until he got well, than that he make his own
recovery impossible.

The 16th of May saw us journeying over the plain which lies between Ugombo and Mpwapwa, skirting
close, at intervals, a low range of trap-rock, out of which had become displaced by some violent
agency several immense boulders.  On its slopes grew the kolquall to a size which I had not
seen in Abyssinia.  In the plain grew baobab, and immense tamarind, and a variety of thorn.

Within five hours from Ugombo the mountain range deflected towards the north-east, while we
continued on a north-westerly course, heading for the lofty mountain-line of the Mpwapwa. 
To our left towered to the blue clouds the gigantic Rubeho.  The adoption of this new road
to Unyanyembe by which we were travelling was now explained--we were enabled to avoid the passes
and stiff steeps of Rubeho, and had nothing worse to encounter than a broad smooth plain, which
sloped gently to Ugogo.

After a march of fifteen miles we camped at a dry mtoni, called Matamombo, celebrated for its
pools of bitter.  water of the colour of ochre.  Monkeys and rhinoceroses, besides kudus, steinboks,
and antelopes, were numerous in the vicinity.  At this camp my little dog "Omar" died of inflammation
of the bowels, almost on the threshold of the country--Ugogo--where his faithful watchfulness
would have been invaluable to me.

The next day's march was also fifteen miles in length, through one interminable jungle of thorn-bushes.
Within two miles of the camp, the road led up a small river bed, broad as an avenue, clear
to the khambi of Mpwapwa; which was situated close to a number of streams of the purest water.

The following morning found us much fatigued after the long marches from Ugombo, and generally
disposed to take advantage of the precious luxuries Mpwapwa offered to caravans fresh from
the fly-plagued lands of the Waseguhha and Wadoe.  Sheikh Thani--clever but innocently-speaking
old Arab--was encamped under the grateful umbrage of a huge Mtamba sycamore, and had been regaling
himself with fresh milk, luscious mutton, and rich bullock humps, ever since his arrival here,
two days before; and, as he informed me, it did not suit his views to quit such a happy abundance
so soon for the saline nitrous water of Marenga Mkali, with its several terekezas, and manifold
disagreeables.  "No!" said he to me, emphatically, "better stop here two or three days, give
your tired animals some rest; collect all the pagazis you can, fill your inside with fresh
milk, sweet potatoes, beef, mutton, ghee, honey, beans, matama, maweri, and nuts;--then, Inshallah!
we shall go together through Ugogo without stopping anywhere."  As the advice tallied accurately
with my own desired and keen appetite for the good things he named, he had not long to wait
for my assent to his counsel.  "Ugogo," continued he, "is rich with milk and honey-- rich in
flour, beans and almost every eatable thing; and, Inshallah! before another week is gone we
shall be in Ugogo!"

I had heard from passing caravans so many extremely favourable reports respecting Ugogo and
its productions that it appeared to me a very Land of Promise, and I was most anxious to refresh
my jaded stomach with some of the precious esculents raised in Ugogo; but when I heard that
Mpwapwa also furnished some of those delicate eatables, and good things, most of the morning
hours were spent in inducing the slow-witted people to part with them; and when, finally, eggs,
milk, honey, mutton, ghee, ground matama and beans had been collected in sufficient quantities
to produce a respectable meal, my keenest attention and best culinary talents were occupied
for a couple of hours in converting this crude supply into a breakfast which could be accepted
by and befit a stomach at once fastidious and famished, such as mine was.  The subsequent healthy
digestion of it proved my endeavours to have been eminently successful.  At the termination
of this eventful day, the following remark was jotted down in my diary: "Thank God!  After
fifty-seven days of living upon matama porridge and tough goat, I have enjoyed with unctuous
satisfaction a real breakfast and dinner."

It was in one of the many small villages which are situated upon the slopes of the Mpwapwa
that a refuge and a home for Farquhar was found until he should be enabled by restored health
to start to join us at Unyanyembe.

Food was plentiful and of sufficient variety to suit the most fastidious--cheap also, much
cheaper than we had experienced for many a day.  Leucole, the chief of the village, with whom
arrangements for Farquhar's protection and comfort were made, was a little old man of mild
eye and very pleasing face, and on being informed that it was intended to leave the Musungu
entirely under his charge, suggested that some man should be left to wait on him, and interpret
his wishes to his people.

As Jako was the only one who could speak English, except Bombay and Selim, Jako was appointed,
and the chief Leucole was satisfied. Six months' provisions of white beads, Merikani and Kaniki
cloth, together with two doti of handsome cloth to serve as a present to Leucole after his
recovery, were taken to Farquhar by Bombay, together with a Starr's carbine, 300 rounds of
cartridge, a set of cooking pots, and 3 lbs. of tea.

Abdullah bin Nasib, who was found encamped here with five hundred pagazis, and a train of Arab
and Wasawahili satellites, who revolved around his importance, treated me in somewhat the same
manner that Hamed bin Sulayman treated Speke at Kasenge.  Followed by his satellites, he came
(a tall nervous-looking man, of fifty or thereabouts) to see me in my camp, and asked me if
I wished to purchase donkeys.  As all my animals were either sick or moribund, I replied very
readily in the affirmative, upon which he graciously said he would sell me as many as I wanted,
and for payment I could give him a draft on Zanzibar.  I thought him a very considerate and
kind person, fully justifying the encomiums lavished on him in Burton's `Lake Regions of Central
Africa,' and accordingly I treated him with the consideration due to so great and good a man.
The morrow came, and with it went Abdullah bin Nasib, or "Kisesa," as he is called by the Wanyamwezi,
with all his pagazis, his train of followers, and each and every one of his donkeys, towards
Bagamoyo, without so much as giving a "Kwaheri," or good-bye.

At this place there are generally to be found from ten to thirty pagazis awaiting up-caravans.
I was fortunate enough to secure twelve good people, who, upon my arrival at Unyanyembe, without
an exception, voluntarily engaged themselves as carriers to Ujiji. With the formidable marches
of Marenga Mkali in front, I felt thankful for this happy windfall,, which resolved the difficulties
I had been anticipating; for I had but ten donkeys left, and four of these were so enfeebled
that they were worthless as baggage animals.

Mpwapwa--so called by the Arabs, who have managed to corrupt almost every native word--is called
"Mbambwa" by the Wasagara.  It is a mountain range rising over 6,000 feet above the sea, bounding
on the north the extensive plain which commences at Ugombo lake, and on the east that part
of the plain which is called Marenga Mkali, which stretches away beyond the borders of Uhumba.
Opposite Mpwapwa, at the distance of thirty miles or so, rises the Anak peak of Rubeho, with
several other ambitious and tall brethren cresting long lines of rectilinear scarps, which
ascend from the plain of Ugombo and Marenga Mkali as regularly as if they had been chiselled
out by the hands of generations of masons and stonecutters.

Upon looking at Mpwapwa's greenly-tinted slopes, dark with many a densely-foliaged tree; its
many rills flowing sweet and clear, nourishing besides thick patches of gum and thorn bush,
giant sycamore and parachute-topped mimosa, and permitting my imagination to picture sweet
views behind the tall cones above, I was tempted to brave the fatigue of an ascent to the summit.
Nor was my love for the picturesque disappointed.  One sweep of the eyes embraced hundreds
of square miles of plain and mountain, from Ugombo Peak away to distant Ugogo, and from Rubeho
and Ugogo to the dim and purple pasture lands of the wild, untamable Wahumba. The plain of
Ugombo and its neighbour of Marenga Mkali, apparently level as a sea, was dotted here and there
with "hillocks dropt in Nature's careless haste," which appeared like islands amid the dun
and green expanse.  Where the jungle was dense the colour was green, alternating with dark
brown; where the plain appeared denuded of bush and brake it had a whity-brown appearance,
on which the passing clouds now and again cast their deep shadows.  Altogether this side of
the picture was not inviting; it exhibited too plainly the true wilderness in its sternest
aspect; but perhaps the knowledge that in the bosom of the vast plain before me there was not
one drop of water but was bitter as nitre, and undrinkable as urine, prejudiced me against
it, The hunter might consider it a paradise, for in its depths were all kinds of game to attract
his keenest instincts; but to the mere traveller it had a stern outlook. Nearer, however, to
the base of the Mpwapwa the aspect of the plain altered.  At first the jungle thinned, openings
in the wood appeared, then wide and naked clearings, then extensive fields of the hardy holcus,
Indian corn, and maweri or bajri, with here and there a square tembe or village.  Still nearer
ran thin lines of fresh young grass, great trees surrounded a patch of alluvial meadow.  A
broad river-bed, containing several rivulets of water, ran through the thirsty fields, conveying
the vivifying element which in this part of Usagara was so scarce and precious.  Down to the
river-bed sloped the Mpwapwa, roughened in some places by great boulders of basalt, or by rock
masses, which had parted from a precipitous scarp, where clung the kolquall with a sure hold,
drawing nourishment where every other green thing failed; clad in others by the hardy mimosa,
which rose like a sloping bank of green verdure almost to the summit.  And, happy sight to
me so long a stranger to it, there were hundreds of cattle grazing, imparting a pleasing animation
to the solitude of the deep folds of the mountain range.

But the fairest view was obtained by looking northward towards the dense group of mountains
which buttressed the front range, facing towards Rubeho.  It was the home of the winds, which
starting here and sweeping down the precipitous slopes and solitary peaks on the western side,
and gathering strength as they rushed through the prairie-like Marenga Mkali, howled through
Ugogo and Unyamwezi with the force of a storm, It was also the home of the dews, where sprang
the clear springs which cheered by their music the bosky dells below, and enriched the populous
district of Mpwapwa. One felt better, stronger, on this breezy height, drinking in the pure
air and feasting the eyes on such a varied landscape as it presented, on spreading plateaus
green as lawns, on smooth rounded tops, on mountain vales containing recesses which might charm
a hermit's soul, on deep and awful ravines where reigned a twilight gloom, on fractured and
riven precipices, on huge fantastically-worn boulders which overtopped them, on picturesque
tracts which embraced all that was wild, and all that was poetical in Nature.

Mpwapwa, though the traveller from the coast will feel grateful for the milk it furnished after
being so long deprived of it, will be kept in mind as a most remarkable place for earwigs.
In my tent they might be counted by thousands; in my slung cot they were by hundreds; on my
clothes they were by fifties; on my neck and head they were by scores.  The several plagues
of locusts, fleas, and lice sink into utter insignificance compared with this fearful one of
earwigs.  It is true they did not bite, and they did not irritate the cuticle, but what their
presence and numbers suggested was something so horrible that it drove one nearly insane to
think of it.  Who will come to East Africa without reading the experiences of Burton and Speke?
Who is he that having read them will not remember with horror the dreadful account given by
Speke of his encounters with these pests? My intense nervous watchfulness alone, I believe,
saved me from a like calamity.

Second to the earwigs in importance and in numbers were the white ants, whose powers of destructiveness
were simply awful.  Mats, cloth, portmanteaus, clothes, in short, every article I possessed,
seemed on the verge of destruction, and, as I witnessed their voracity, I felt anxious lest
my tent should be devoured while I slept.  This was the first khambi since leaving the coast
where their presence became a matter of anxiety; at all other camping places hitherto the red
and black ants had usurped our attention, but at Mpwapwa the red species were not seen, while
the black were also very scarce.

After a three days' halt at Mpwapwa I decided of a march to Marenga Mkali, which should be
uninterrupted until we reached Mvumi in Ugogo, where I should be inducted into the art of paying
tribute to the Wagogo chiefs.  The first march to Kisokweh was purposely made short, being
barely four miles, in order to enable Sheikh Thani, Sheikh Hamed, and five or six Wasawahili
caravans to come up with me at Chunyo on the confines of Marenga Mkali.

CHAPTER VII.  MARENGA MKALI, UGOGO, AND UYANZI, TO UNYANYEMBE.

Mortality amongst the baggage animals.--The contumacious Wagogo-- Mobs of Maenads.--Tribute
paying.--Necessity of prudence.--Oration of the guide.--The genuine "Ugogians."--Vituperative
power.--A surprised chief.--The famous Mizanza.--Killing hyaenas.--The Greeks and Romans of
Africa.--A critical moment.--The "elephant's back."-- The wilderness of Ukimbu.--End of the
first stage of the search.-- Arrival at Unyanyembe.

The 22nd of May saw Thani and Hamed's caravans united with my own at Chunyo, three and a half
hours' march from Mpwapwa.  The road from the latter place ran along the skirts of the Mpwapwa
range; at three or four places it crossed outlying spurs that stood isolated from the main
body of the range.  The last of these hill spurs, joined by an elevated cross ridge to the
Mpwapwa, shelters the tembe of Chunyo, situated on the western face, from the stormy gusts
that come roaring down the steep slopes.  The water of Chunyo is eminently bad, in fact it
is its saline-nitrous nature which has given the name Marenga Mkali--bitter water--to the wilderness
which separates Usagara from Ugogo.  Though extremely offensive to the palate, Arabs and the
natives drink it without fear, and without any bad results; but they are careful to withhold
their baggage animals from the pits.  Being ignorant of its nature, and not exactly understanding
what precise location was meant by Marenga Mkali, I permitted the donkeys to be taken to water,
as usual after a march; and the consequence was calamitous in the extreme. What the fearful
swamp of Makata had spared, the waters of Marenga Mkali destroyed.  In less than five days
after our departure from Chunyo or Marenga Mali, five out of the nine donkeys left to me at
the time--the five healthiest animals--fell victims.  To Sheikh Hamed, by permission of Sheikh
Thani, and myself was allotted the task of guiding and leading this great caravan through dreaded
Ugogo; which was a most unhappy selection, as will be seen hereafter.

Marenga Mali, over thirty miles across, was at last before us. This distance had to be traversed
within thirty-six hours, so that the fatigue of the ordinary march would be more than doubled
by this. From Chunyo to Ugogo not one drop of water was to be found.  As a large caravan, say
over two hundred souls, seldom travels over one and three-quarter miles per hour, a march of
thirty miles would require seventeen hours of endurance without water and but little rest.
East Africa generally possessing unlimited quantities of water, caravans have not been compelled
for lack of the element to have recourse to the mushok of India and the khirbeh of Egypt. Being
able to cross the waterless districts by a couple of long marches, they content themselves
for the time with a small gourdful, and with keeping their imaginations dwelling upon the copious
quantities they will drink upon arrival at the watering-place.

The march through this waterless district was most monotonous, and a dangerous fever attacked
me, which seemed to eat into my very vitals.  The wonders of Africa that bodied themselves
forth in the shape of flocks of zebras, giraffes, elands, or antelopes, galloping over the
jungleless plain, had no charm for me; nor could they serve to draw my attention from the severe
fit of sickness which possessed me.  Towards the end of the first march I was not able to sit
upon the donkey's back; nor would it do, when but a third of the way across the wilderness,
to halt until the next day; soldiers were therefore detailed to carry me in a hammock, and,
when the terekeza was performed in the afternoon, I lay in a lethargic state, unconscious of
all things.  With the night passed the fever, and, at 3 o'clock in the morning, when the march
was resumed, I was booted and spurred, and the recognized mtongi of my caravan once more. 
At 8 A.M. we had performed the thirty-two miles.  The wilderness of Marenga Mkali had been
passed and we had entered Ugogo, which was at once a dreaded land to my caravan, and a Land
of Promise to myself.

The transition from the wilderness into this Promised Land was very gradual and easy.  Very
slowly the jungle thinned, the cleared land was a long time appearing, and when it had finally
appeared, there were no signs of cultivation until we could clearly make out the herbage and
vegetation on some hill slopes to our right running parallel with our route, then we saw timber
on the hills, and broad acreage under cultivation--and, lo! as we ascended a wave of reddish
earth covered with tall weeds and cane, but a few feet from us, and directly across our path,
were the fields of matama and grain we had been looking for, and Ugogo had been entered an
hour before.

The view was not such as I expected.  I had imagined a plateau several hundred feet higher
than Marenga Mkali, and an expansive view which should reveal Ugogo and its characteristics
at once. But instead, while travelling from the tall weeds which covered the clearing which
had preceded the cultivated parts, we had entered into the depths of the taller matama stalks,
and, excepting some distant hills near Mvumi, where the Great Sultan lived--the first of the
tribe to whom we should pay tribute--the view was extremely limited.

However, in the neighbourhood of the first village a glimpse at some of the peculiar features
of Ugogo was obtained, and there was a vast plain--now flat, now heaving upwards, here level
as a table, there tilted up into rugged knolls bristling with scores of rough boulders of immense
size, which lay piled one above another as if the children of a Titanic race had been playing
at house-building.  Indeed, these piles of rounded, angular, and riven rock formed miniature
hills of themselves; and appeared as if each body had been ejected upwards by some violent
agency beneath. There was one of these in particular, near Mvumi, which was so large, and being
slightly obscured from view by the outspreading branches of a gigantic baobab, bore such a
strong resemblance to a square tower of massive dimensions, that for a long time I cherished
the idea that I had discovered something most interesting which had strangely escaped the notice
of my predecessors in East Africa.  A nearer view dispelled the illusion, and proved it to
be a huge cube of rock, measuring about forty feet each way.  The baobabs were also particularly
conspicuous on this scene, no other kind of tree being visible in the cultivated parts.  These
had probably been left for two reasons: first, want of proper axes for felling trees of such
enormous growth; secondly, because during a famine the fruit of the baobab furnishes a flour
which, in the absence of anything better, is said to be eatable and nourishing.

The first words I heard in Ugogo were from a Wagogo elder, of sturdy form, who in an indolent
way tended the flocks, but showed a marked interest in the stranger clad in white flannels,
with a Hawkes' patent cork solar topee on his head, a most unusual thing in Ugogo, who came
walking past him, and there were "Yambo, Musungu, Yambo, bana, bana," delivered with a voice
loud enough to make itself heard a full mile away.  No sooner had the greeting been delivered
than the word "Musungu" seemed to electrify his entire village; and the people of other villages,
situated at intervals near the road, noting the excitement that reigned at the first, also
participated in the general frenzy which seemed suddenly to have possessed them.  I consider
my progress from the first village to Mvumi to have been most triumphant; for I was accompanied
by a furious mob of men, women, and children, all almost as naked as Mother Eve when the world
first dawned upon her in the garden of Eden, fighting, quarrelling, jostling, staggering against
each other for the best view of the white man, the like of whom was now seen for the first
time in this part of Ugogo.  The cries of admiration, such as "Hi-le!" which broke often and
in confused uproar upon my ear, were not gratefully accepted, inasmuch as I deemed many of
them impertinent.  A respectful silence and more reserved behaviour would have won my esteem;
but, ye powers, who cause etiquette to be observed in Usungu,* respectful silence, reserved
behaviour, and esteem are terms unknown in savage Ugogo.  Hitherto I had compared myself to
a merchant of Bagdad travelling among the Kurds of Kurdistan, selling his wares of Damascus
silk, kefiyehs, &c.; but now I was compelled to lower my standard, and thought myself not much
better than a monkey in a zoological collection.  One of my soldiers requested them to lessen
their vociferous noise; but the evil-minded race ordered him to shut up, as a thing unworthy
to speak to the Wagogo! When I imploringly turned to the Arabs for counsel in this strait,
old Sheikh Thani, always worldly wise, said, "Heed them not; they are dogs who bite besides
barking."

* White man's land.

At 9 A.M. we were in our boma, near Mvumi village; but here also crowds of Wagogo came to catch
a glimpse of the Musungu, whose presence was soon made known throughout the district of Mvumi.
But two hours later I was oblivious of their endeavours to see me; for, despite repeated doses
of quinine, the mukunguru had sure hold of me.

The next day was a march of eight miles, from East Mvumi to West Mvumi, where lived the Sultan
of the district.  The quantity and variety of provisions which arrived at our boma did not
belie the reports respecting the productions of Ugogo.  Milk, sour and sweet, honey, beans,
matama, maweri, Indian corn, ghee, pea-nuts, and a species of bean-nut very like a large pistachio
or an almond, water-melons, pumpkins, mush-melons, and cucumbers were brought, and readily
exchanged for Merikani, Kaniki, and for the white Merikani beads and Sami-Sami, or Sam-Sam.
The trade and barter which progressed in the camp from morning till night reminded me of the
customs existing among the Gallas and Abyssinians. Eastward, caravans were obliged to despatch
men with cloth, to purchase from the villagers.  This was unnecessary in Ugogo, where the people
voluntarily brought every vendible they possessed to the camp.  The smallest breadth of white
or blue cloth became saleable and useful in purchasing provisions--even a loin-cloth worn threadbare.

The day after our march was a halt.  We had fixed this day for bearing the tribute to the Great
Sultan of Mvumi.  Prudent and cautious Sheikh Thani early began this important duty, the omission
of which would have been a signal for war.  Hamed and Thani sent two faithful slaves, well
up to the eccentricities of the Wagogo sultans--well spoken, having glib tongues and the real
instinct for trade as carried on amongst Orientals.  They bore six doti of cloths, viz., one
doti of Dabwani Ulyah contributed by myself, also one doti of Barsati from me, two doti Merikani
Satine from Sheikh Thani, and two doti of Kaniki from Sheikh Hamed, as a first instalment of
the tribute.  The slaves were absent a full hour, but having wasted their powers of pleading,
in vain, they returned with the demand for more, which Sheikh Thani communicated to me in this
wise:

"Auf! this Sultan is a very bad man--a very bad man indeed; he says, the Musungu is a great
man, I call him a sultan; the Musungu is very rich, for he has several caravans already gone
past; the Musungu must pay forty doti, and the Arabs must pay twelve doti each, for they have
rich caravans.  It is of no use for you to tell me you are all one caravan, otherwise why so
many flags and tents?  Go and bring me sixty doti, with less I will not be satisfied."

I suggested to Sheikh Thani, upon hearing this exorbitant demand, that had I twenty Wasungu*
armed with Winchester repeating rifles, the Sultan might be obliged to pay tribute to me; but
Thani prayed and begged me to be cautious lest angry words might irritate the Sultan and cause
him to demand a double tribute, as he was quite capable of doing so; "and if you preferred
war," said he, "your pagazis would all desert, and leave you and your cloth to the small mercy
of the Wagogo."  But I hastened to allay his fears by telling Bombay, in his presence, that
I had foreseen such demands on the part of the Wagogo, and that having set aside one hundred
and twenty doti of honga cloths, I should not consider myself a sufferer if the Sultan demanded
and I paid forty cloths to him; that he must therefore open the honga bale, and permit Sheikh
Thani to extract such cloths as the Sultan might like.

Sheikh Thani, having put on the cap of consideration and joined heads with Hamed and the faithful
serviles, thought if I paid twelve doti, out of which three should be of Ulyah+  quality, that
the Sultan might possibly condescend to accept our tribute; supposing he was persuaded by the
oratorical words of the "Faithfuls," that the Musungu had nothing with him but the mashiwa
(boat), which would be of no use to him, come what might,--with which prudent suggestion the
Musungu concurred, seeing its wisdom.

* White men. + Best, or superior.

The slaves departed, bearing this time from our boma thirty doti, with our best wishes for
their success.  In an hour they returned with empty hands, but yet unsuccessful.  The Sultan
demanded six doti of Merikani, and a fundo of bubu, from the Musungu; and from the Arabs and
other caravans, twelve doti more.  For the third time the slaves departed for the Sultan's
tembe, carrying with them six doti Merikani and a fundo of bubu from myself, and ten doti from
the Arabs.  Again they returned to us with the Sultan's words, "That, as the doti of the Musungu
were short measure, and the cloths of the Arabs of miserable quality, the Musungu must send
three doti full measure, and the Arabs five doti of Kaniki."  My three doti were at once measured
out with the longest fore-arm--according to Kigogo measure--and sent off by Bombay; but the
Arabs, almost in despair, declared they would be ruined if they gave way to such demands, and
out of the five doti demanded sent only two, with a pleading to the Sultan that he would consider
what was paid as just and fair Muhongo, and not ask any more.  But the Sultan of Mvumi was
by no means disposed to consider any such proposition, but declared he must have three doti,
and these to be two of Ulyah cloth, and one Kitambi Barsati, which, as he was determined to
obtain, were sent to him heavy with the deep maledictions of Sheikh Hamed and the despairing
sighs of sheikh Thani.

Altogether the sultanship of a district in Ugogo must be very remunerative, besides being a
delightful sinecure, so long as the Sultan has to deal with timid Arab merchants who fear to
exhibit anything approaching to independence and self-reliance, lest they might be mulcted
in cloth.  In one day from one camp the sultan received forty-seven doti, consisting of Merikani,
Kaniki, Barsati, and Dabwani, equal to $35.25, besides seven doti of superior cloths, consisting
of Rehani, Sohari, and Daobwani Ulyah, and one fundo of Bubu, equal to $14.00, making a total
of $49.25--a most handsome revenue for a Mgogo chief.

On the 27th May we gladly shook the dust of Mvumi from our feet, and continued on our route--ever
westward.  Five of my donkeys had died the night before, from the effects of the water of Marenga
Mkali.  Before leaving the camp of Mvumi, I went to look at their carcases; but found them
to have been clean picked by the hyaenas, and the bones taken possession of by an army of white-necked
crows.

As we passed the numerous villages, and perceived the entire face of the land to be one vast
field of grain, and counted the people halted by scores on the roadside to feast their eyes
with a greedy stare on the Musungu, I no longer wondered at the extortionate demands of the
Wagogo.  For it was manifest that they had but to stretch out their hands to possess whatever
the wealth of a caravan consisted of; and I began to think better of the people who, knowing
well their strength, did not use it--of people who were intellectual enough to comprehend that
their interest lay in permitting the caravans to pass on without attempting any outrage.

Between Mvumi and the nest Sultan's district, that of Matamburu, I counted no less than twenty-five
villages, scattered over the clayey, coloured plain.  Despite the inhospitable nature of the
plain, it was better cultivated than any part of any other country we had seen since leaving
Bagamoyo.

When we had at last arrived at our boma of Matamburu, the same groups of curious people, the
same eager looks, the same exclamations of surprise, the same, peals of laughter, at something
they deemed ludicrous in the Musungu's dress or manner, awaited us, as at Mvumi.  The Arabs
being "Wakonongo" travellers, whom they saw every day, enjoyed a complete immunity from the
vexations which we had to endure.

The Sultan of Matamburu, a man of herculean form, and massive head well set on shoulders that
might vie with those of Milo, proved to be a very reasonable person.  Not quite so powerful
as the Sultan of Mvumi, he yet owned a fair share of Ugogo and about forty villages, and could,
if he chose, have oppressed the mercantile souls of my Arab companions, in the same way as
he of Mvumi.  Four doti of cloth were taken to him as a preliminary offering to his greatness,
which he said he would accept, if the Arabs and Musungu would send him four more.  As his demands
were so reasonable, this little affair was soon terminated to everybody's satisfaction; and
soon after, the kirangozi of Sheikh Hamed sounded the signal for the morrow's march.

At the orders of the same Sheikh, the kirangozi stood up to speak before the assembled caravans.
"Words, words, from the Bana," he shouted.  "Give ear, kirangozis!  Listen, children of Unyamwezi!
The journey is for to-morrow!  The road is crooked and bad, bad! The jungle is there, and many
Wagogo lie hidden within it! Wagogo spear the pagazis, and cut the throats of those who carry
mutumba (bales) and ushanga (beads)!  The Wagogo have been to our camp, they have seen your
bales; to-night they seek the jungle: to-morrow watch well, O Wanyamwezi!  Keep close together,
lag not behind!  Kirangozis walk slow, that the weak, the sick, and the young may keep up with
the strong!  Take two rests on the journey! These are the words of the Bana (master).  Do you
hear them, Wanyamwezi?  (A loud shout in the affirmative from all.)  Do you understand them
well? (another chorus); then Bas;" having said which, the eloquent kirangozi retired into the
dark night, and his straw hut.

The march to Bihawana, our next camp, was rugged and long, through a continuous jungle of gums
and thorns, up steep hills and finally over a fervid plain, while the sun waxed hotter and
hotter as it drew near the meridian, until it seemed to scorch all vitality from inanimate
nature, while the view was one white blaze, unbearable to the pained sight, which sought relief
from the glare in vain.  Several sandy watercourses, on which were impressed many a trail of
elephants, were also passed on this march.  The slope of these stream-beds trended south-east
and south.

In the middle of this scorching plain stood the villages of Bihawana, almost undistinguishable,
from the extreme lowness of the huts, which did not reach the height of the tall bleached grass
which stood smoking in the untempered heat.

Our camp was in a large boma, about a quarter of a mile from the Sultan's tembe.  Soon after
arriving at the camp, I was visited by three Wagogo, who asked me if I had seen a Mgogo on
the road with a woman and child.  I was about to answer, very innocently, "Yes," when Mabruki--cautious
and watchful always for the interests of the master--requested me not to answer, as the Wagogo,
as customary, would charge me with having done away with them, and would require their price
from me.  Indignant at the imposition they were about to practise upon me, I was about to raise
my whip to flog them out of the camp, when again Mabruki, with a roaring voice, bade me beware,
for every blow would cost me three or four doti of cloth. As I did not care to gratify my anger
at such an expense, I was compelled to swallow my wrath, and consequently the Wagogo escaped
chastisement.

We halted for one day at this place, which was a great relief to me, as I was suffering severely
from intermittent fever, which lasted in this case two weeks, and entirely prevented my posting
my diary in full, as was my custom every evening after a march.

The Sultan of Bihawana, though his subjects were evil-disposed, and ready-handed at theft and
murder, contented himself with three doti as honga.  From this chief I received news of my
fourth caravan, which had distinguished itself in a fight with some outlawed subjects of his;
my soldiers had killed two who had attempted, after waylaying a couple of my pagazis, to carry
away a bale of cloth and a bag of beads; coming up in time, the soldiers decisively frustrated
the attempt.  The Sultan thought that if all caravans were as well guarded as mine were, there
would be less depredations committed on them while on the road; with which I heartily agreed.

The next sultan's tembe through whose territory we marched, this being on the 30th May, was
at Kididimo, but four miles from Bihawna. The road led through a flat elongated plain, lying
between two lengthy hilly ridges, thickly dotted with the giant forms of the baobab.  Kididimo
is exceedingly bleak in aspect.  Even the faces of the Wagogo seemed to have contracted a bleak
hue from the general bleakness around.  The water of the pits obtained in the neighbourhood
had an execrable flavor, and two donkeys sickened and died in less than an hour from its effects.
Man suffered nausea and a general irritability of the system, and accordingly revenged himself
by cursing the country and its imbecile ruler most heartily. The climax came, however, when
Bombay reported, after an attempt to settle the Muhongo, that the chief's head had grown big
since he heard that the Musungu had come, and that its "bigness" could not be reduced unless
he could extract ten doti as tribute.  Though the demand was large, I was not in a humour--being
feeble, and almost nerveless, from repeated attacks of the Mukunguru--to dispute the sum: consequently
it was paid without many words. But the Arabs continued the whole afternoon negotiating, and
at the end had to pay eight doti each.

Between Kididimo and Nyambwa, the district of the Sultan Pembera Pereh, was a broad and lengthy
forest and jungle inhabited by the elephant, rhinoceros, zebra, deer, antelope, and giraffe.
Starting at dawn of the 31st; we entered the jungle, whose dark lines and bosky banks were
clearly visible from our bower at Kididimo; and, travelling for two hours, halted for rest
and breakfast, at pools of sweet water surrounded by tracts of vivid green verdure, which were
a great resort for the wild animals of the jungle, whose tracks were numerous and recent. 
A narrow nullah, shaded deeply with foliage, afforded excellent retreats from the glaring sunshine.
At meridian, our thirst quenched, our hunger satisfied, our gourds refilled, we set out from
the shade into the heated blaze of hot noon.  So for six long weary hours we toiled bravely;
and at sunset we camped, and still a march of two hours, to be done before the sun was an hour
high, intervened between us and our camp at Nyambwa.  That night the men bivouacked under the
trees, surrounded by many miles of dense forest, enjoying the cool night unprotected by hat
or tent, while I groaned and tossed throughout the night in a paroxysm of fever.

The morn came; and, while it was yet young, the long caravan, or string of caravans, was under
way.  It was the same forest, admitting, on the narrow line which we threaded, but one man
at a time.  Its view was as limited.  To our right and left the forest was dark and deep. 
Above was a riband of glassy sky flecked by the floating nimbus.  We heard nothing save a few
stray notes from a flying bird, or the din of the caravans as the men sang, or hummed, or conversed,
or shouted, as the thought struck them that we were nearing water.  One of my pagazis, wearied
and sick, fell, and never rose again.  The last of the caravan passed him before he died.

At 7 A.M. we were encamped at Nyambwa, drinking the excellent water found here with the avidity
of thirsty camels.  Extensive fields of grain had heralded the neighbourhood of the villages,
at the sight of which we were conscious that the caravan was quickening its pace, as approaching
its halting-place.  As the Wasungu drew within the populated area, crowds of Wagogo used their
utmost haste to see them before they passed by.  Young and old of both genders pressed about
us in a multitude--a very howling mob. This excessive demonstrativeness elicited from my sailor
overseer the characteristic remark, " Well, I declare, these must be the genuine Ugogians,
for they stare! stare--there is no end to their staring.  I'm almost tempted to slap 'em in
the face!" In fact, the conduct of the Wagogo of Nyambwa was an exaggeration of the general
conduct of Wagogo.  Hitherto, those we had met had contented themselves with staring and shouting;
but these outstepped all bounds, and my growing anger at their excessive insolence vented itself
in gripping the rowdiest of them by the neck, and before he could recover from his astonishment
administering a sound thrashing with my dog-whip, which he little relished.  This proceeding
educed from the tribe of starers all their native power of vituperation and abuse, in expressing
which they were peculiar. Approaching in manner to angry tom-cats, they jerked their words
with something of a splitting hiss and a half bark.  The ejaculation, as near as I can spell
it phonetically, was "hahcht" uttered in a shrill crescendo tone.  They paced backwards and
forwards, asking themselves, "Are the Wagoga to be beaten like slaves by this Musungu? A Mgogo
is a Mgwana (a free man); he is not used to be beaten,-- hahcht."  But whenever I made motion,
flourishing my whip, towards them, these mighty braggarts found it convenient to move to respectable
distances from the irritated Musungu.

Perceiving that a little manliness and show of power was something which the Wagogo long needed,
and that in this instance it relieved me from annoyance, I had recourse to my whip, whose long
lash cracked like a pistol shot, whenever they overstepped moderation. So long as they continued
to confine their obtrusiveness to staring, and communicating to each other their opinions respecting
my complexion, and dress, and accoutrements, I philosophically resigned myself in silence for
their amusement; but when they pressed on me, barely allowing me to proceed, a few vigorous
and rapid slashes right and left with my serviceable thong, soon cleared the track.

Pembera Pereh is a queer old man, very small, and would be very insignificant were he not the
greatest sultan in Ugogo; and enjoying a sort of dimediate power over many other tribes. Though
such an important chief, he is the meanest dressed of his subjects,--is always filthy,--ever
greasy--eternally foul about the mouth; but these are mere eccentricities: as a wise judge,
he is without parallel, always has a dodge ever ready for the abstraction of cloth from the
spiritless Arab merchants, who trade with Unyanyembe every year; and disposes with ease of
a judicial case which would overtask ordinary men.

Sheikh Hamed, who was elected guider of the united caravans now travelling through Ugogo, was
of such a fragile and small make, that he might be taken for an imitation of his famous prototype
"Dapper."  Being of such dimensions, what he lacked for weight and size he made up by activity.
No sooner had he arrived in camp than his trim dapper form was seen frisking about from side
to side of the great boma, fidgeting, arranging, disturbing everything and everybody.  He permitted
no bales or packs to be intermingled, or to come into too close proximity to his own; he had
a favourite mode of stacking his goods, which he would see carried out; he had a special eye
for the best place for his tent, and no one else must trespass on that ground.  One would imagine
that walking ten or fifteen miles a day, he would leave such trivialities to his servants,
but no, nothing could be right unless he had personally superintended it; in which work he
was tireless and knew no fatigue.

Another not uncommon peculiarity pertained to Sheikh Hamed; as he was not a rich man, he laboured
hard to make the most of every shukka and doti expended, and each fresh expenditure seemed
to gnaw his very vitals: he was ready to weep, as he himself expressed it, at the high prices
of Ugogo, and the extortionate demands of its sultans.  For this reason, being the leader of
the caravans, so far as he was able we were very sure not to be delayed in Ugogo, where food
was so dear.

The day we arrived at Nyambwa will be remembered by Hamed as long as he lives, for the trouble
and vexation which he suffered.  His misfortunes arose from the fact that, being too busily
engaged in fidgeting about the camp, he permitted his donkeys to stray into the matama fields
of Pembera Pereh, the Sultan.  For hours he and his servants sought for the stray donkeys,
returning towards evening utterly unsuccessful, Hamed bewailing, as only an Oriental can do,
when hard fate visits him with its inflictions, the loss of a hundred do dollars worth of Muscat
donkeys. Sheikh Thani, older, more experienced, and wiser, suggested to him that he should
notify the Sultan of his loss.  Acting upon the sagacious advice, Hamed sent an embassy of
two slaves, and the information they brought back was, that Pembera Pereh's servants had found
the two donkeys eating the unripened matama, and that unless the Arab who owned them would
pay nine doti of first-class cloths, he, Pembera Pereh, would surely keep them to remunerate
him for the matama they had eaten.  Hamed was in despair.  Nine doti of first-class cloths,
worth $25 in Unyanyembe, for half a chukka's worth of grain, was, as he thought, an absurd
demand; but then if he did not pay it, what would become of the hundred dollars' worth of donkeys?
He proceeded to the Sultan to show him the absurdity of the damage claim, and to endeavour
to make him accept one chukka, which would be more than double the worth of what grain the
donkeys had consumed.  But the Sultan was sitting on pombe; he was drunk, which I believe to
be his normal state--too drunk to attend to business, consequently his deputy, a renegade Mnyamwezi,
gave ear to the business.  With most of the Wagogo chiefs lives a Mnyamwezi, as their right-hand
man, prime minister, counsellor, executioner, ready man at all things save the general good;
a sort of harlequin Unyamwezi, who is such an intriguing, restless, unsatisfied person, that
as soon as one hears that this kind of man forms one of and the chief of a Mgogo sultan's council,
one feels very much tempted to do damage to his person.  Most of the extortions practised upon
the Arabs are suggested by these crafty renegades.  Sheikh Hamed found that the Mnyamwezi was
far more obdurate than the Sultan--nothing under nine doti first-class cloths would redeem
the donkeys.  The business that day remained unsettled, and the night following was, as one
may imagine, a very sleepless one to Hamed.  As it turned out, however, the loss of the donkeys,
the after heavy fine, and the sleepless night, proved to be blessings in disguise; for, towards
midnight, a robber Mgogo visited his camp, and while attempting to steal a bale of cloth, was
detected in the act by the wide-awake and irritated Arab, and was made to vanish instantly
with a bullet whistling in close proximity to his ear.

From each of the principals of the caravans, the Mnyamwezi had received as tribute for his
drunken master fifteen doti, and from the other six caravans six doti each, altogether fifty-one
doti, yet on the next morning when we took the road he was not a whit disposed to deduct a
single cloth from the fine imposed on Hamed, and the unfortunate Sheikh was therefore obliged
to liquidate the claim, or leave his donkeys behind.

After travelling through the corn-fields of Pembera Pereh we emerged upon a broad flat plain,
as level as the still surface of a pond, whence the salt of the Wagogo is obtained.  From Kanyenyi
on the southern road, to beyond the confines of Uhumba and Ubanarama, this saline field extends,
containing many large ponds of salt bitter water whose low banks are covered with an effervescence
partaking of the nature of nitrate.  Subsequently, two days afterwards, having ascended the
elevated ridge which separates Ugogo from Uyanzi, I obtained a view of this immense saline
plain, embracing over a hundred square miles.  I may have been deceived, but I imagined I saw
large expanses of greyish-blue water, which causes me to believe that this salina is but a
corner of a great salt lake.  The Wahumba, who are numerous, from Nyambwa to the Uyanzi border,
informed my soldiers that there was a "Maji Kuba" away to the north.

Mizanza, our next camp after Nyambwa, is situated in a grove of palms, about thirteen miles
from the latter place.  Soon after arriving I had to bury myself under blankets, plagued with
the same intermittent fever which first attacked me during the transit of Marenga Mkali.  Feeling
certain that one day's halt, which would enable me to take regular doses of the invaluable
sulphate of quinine, would cure me, I requested Sheikh Thani to tell Hamed to halt on the morrow,
as I should be utterly unable to continue thus long, under repeated attacks of a virulent disease
which was fast reducing me into a mere frame of skin and bone.  Hamed, in a hurry to arrive
at Unyanyembe in order to dispose of his cloth before other caravans appeared in the market,
replied at first that he would not, that he could not, stop for the Musungu.  Upon Thani's
reporting his answer to me, I requested him to inform Hamed that, as the Musungu did not wish
to detain him, or any other caravan, it was his express wish that Hamed would march and leave
him, as he was quite strong enough in guns to march through Ugogo alone.  Whatever cause modified
the Sheikh's resolution and his anxiety to depart, Hamed's horn signal for the march was not
heard that night, and on the morrow he had not gone.

Early in the morning I commenced on my quinine doses; at 6 A.M. I took a second dose; before
noon I had taken four more-- altogether, fifty measured grains-the effect of which was manifest
in the copious perspiration which drenched flannels, linen, and blankets.  After noon I arose,
devoutly thankful that the disease which had clung to me for the last fourteen days had at
last succumbed to quinine.

On this day the lofty tent, and the American flag which ever flew from the centre pole, attracted
the Sultan of Mizanza towards it, and was the cause of a visit with which he honoured me. 
As he was notorious among the Arabs for having assisted Manwa Sera in his war against Sheikh
Sny bin Amer, high eulogies upon whom have been written by Burton, and subsequently by Speke,
and as he was the second most powerful chief in Ugogo, of course he was quite a curiosity to
me.  As the tent-door was uplifted that he might enter, the ancient gentleman was so struck
with astonishment at the lofty apex, and internal arrangements, that the greasy Barsati cloth
which formed his sole and only protection against the chills of night and the heat of noon,
in a fit of abstraction was permitted to fall down to his feet, exposing to the Musungu's unhallowed
gaze the sad and aged wreck of what must once have been a towering form.  His son, a youth
of about fifteen, attentive to the infirmities of his father, hastened with filial duty to
remind him of his condition, upon which, with an idiotic titter at the incident, he resumed
his scanty apparel and sat down to wonder and gibber out his admiration at the tent and the
strange things which formed the Musungu's personal baggage and furniture.  After gazing in
stupid wonder at the table, on which was placed some crockery and the few books I carried with
me; at the slung hammock, which he believed was suspended by some magical contrivance; at the
portmanteaus which contained my stock of clothes, he ejaculated, "Hi-le! the Musungu is a great
sultan, who has come from his country to see Ugogo."  He then noticed me, and was again wonder-
struck at my pale complexion and straight hair, and the question now propounded was, "How on
earth was I white when the sun had burned his people's skins into blackness?" Whereupon he
was shown my cork topee, which he tried on his woolly head, much to his own and to our amusement.
The guns were next shown to him; the wonderful repeating rifle of the Winchester Company, which
was fired thirteen times in rapid succession to demonstrate its remarkable murderous powers.
If he was astonished before he was a thousand times more so now, and expressed his belief that
the Wagogo could not stand before the Musungu in battle, for wherever a Mgogo was seen such
a gun would surely kill him. Then the other firearms were brought forth, each with its peculiar
mechanism explained, until, in, a burst of enthusiasm at my riches and power, he said he would
send me a sheep or goat, and that he would be my brother.  I thanked him for the honour, and
promised to accept whatever he was pleased to send me.  At the instigation of Sheikh Thani,
who acted as interpreter, who said that Wagogo chiefs must not depart with empty hands, I cut
off a shukka of Kaniki and presented it to him, which, after being examined and measured, was
refused upon the ground that, the Musungu being a great sultan should not demean himself so
much as to give him only a shukka.  This, after the twelve doti received as muhongo from the
caravans, I thought, was rather sore; but as he was about to present me with a sheep or goat
another shukka would not matter much.

Shortly after he departed, and true to his promise, I received a large, fine sheep, with a
broad tail, heavy with fat; but with the words, :"That being now his brother, I must send him
three doti of good cloth." As the price of a sheep is but a doti and a half, I refused the
sheep and the fraternal honour, upon the ground that the gifts were all on one side; and that,
as I had paid muhongo, and given him a doti of Kaniki as a present, I could not, afford to
part with any more cloth without an adequate return.

During the afternoon one more of my donkeys died, and at night the hyaenas came in great numbers
to feast upon the carcase.  Ulimengo, the chasseur, and best shot of my Wangwana, stole out
and succeeded in shooting two, which turned out to be some of the largest of their kind.. 
One of them measured six feet from the tip of the nose to the extremity of the tail, and three
feet around the girth.

On the 4th. June we struck camp, and after travelling westward for about three miles, passing
several ponds of salt water, we headed north by west, skirting the range of low hills which
separates Ugogo from Uyanzi.

After a three hours' march, we halted for a short time at Little Mukondoku, to settle tribute
with the brother of him who rules at Mukondoku Proper.  Three doti satisfied the Sultan, whose
district contains but two villages, mostly occupied by pastoral Wahumba and renegade Wahehe.
The Wahumba live in plastered (cow-dung) cone huts, shaped like the tartar tents of Turkestan.

The Wahumba, so far as I have seen them, are a fine and well-formed race.  The men are positively
handsome, tall, with small heads, the posterior parts of which project considerably.  One will
look in vain for a thick lip or a flat nose amongst them; on the contrary, the mouth is exceedingly
well cut, delicately small; the nose is that of the Greeks, and so universal was the peculiar
feature, that I at once named them the Greeks of Africa.  Their lower limbs have not the heaviness
of the Wagogo and other tribes, but are long and shapely, clean as those of an antelope.  Their
necks are long and slender, on which their small heads are poised most gracefully.  Athletes
from their youth, shepherd bred, and intermarrying among themselves, thus keeping the race
pure, any of them would form a fit subject for the sculptor who would wish to immortalize in
marble an Antinous, a Hylas, a Daphnis, or an Apollo.  The women are as beautiful as the men
are handsome. They have clear ebon skins, not coal-black, but of an inky hue. Their ornaments
consist of spiral rings of brass pendent from the ears, brass ring collars about the necks,
and a spiral cincture of brass wire about their loins for the purpose of retaining their calf
and goat skins, which are folded about their bodies, and, depending from the shoulder, shade
one half of the bosom, and fall to the knees.

The Wahehe may be styled the Romans of Africa.  Resuming our march, after a halt of an hour,
in foul hours more we arrived at Mukondoku Proper.  This extremity of Ugogo is most populous,
The villages which surround the central tembe, where the Sultan Swaruru lives, amount to thirty-six.
The people who flocked from these to see the wonderful men whose faces were white, who wore
the most wonderful things on their persons, and possessed the most wonderful weapons; guns
which "bum-bummed" as fast as you could count on your fingers, formed such a mob of howling
savages, that I for an instant thought there was something besides mere curiosity which caused
such commotion, and attracted such numbers to the roadside. Halting, I asked what was the matter,
and what they wanted, and why they made such noise?  One burly rascal, taking my words for
a declaration of hostilities, promptly drew his bow, but as prompt as he had fixed his arrow
my faithful Winchester with thirteen shots in the magazine was ready and at the shoulder, and
but waited to see the arrow fly to pour the leaden messengers of death into the crowd.  But
the crowd vanished as quickly as they had come, leaving the burly Thersites, and two or three
irresolute fellows of his tribe, standing within pistol range of my levelled rifle.  Such a
sudden dispersion of the mob which, but a moment before, was overwhelming in numbers, caused
me to lower my rifle, and to indulge in a hearty laugh at the disgraceful flight of the men-destroyers.
The Arabs, who were as much alarmed at their boisterous obtrusiveness, now came up to patch
a truce, in which they succeeded to everybody's satisfaction. A few words of explanation, and
the mob came back in greater numbers than before; and the Thersites who had been the cause
of the momentary disturbance was obliged to retire abashed before the pressure of public opinion.
A chief now came up, whom I afterwards learned was the second man to Swaruru, and lectured
the people upon their treatment of the "White Stranger."

"Know ye not, Wagogo," shouted he, "that this Musungu is a sultan (mtemi--a most high title).
He has not come to Ugogo like the Wakonongo (Arabs), to trade in ivory, but to see us, and
give presents.  Why do you molest him and his people? Let them pass in peace.  If you wish
to see him, draw near, but do not mock him.  The first of you who creates a disturbance, let
him beware; our great mtemi shall know how you treat his friends."  This little bit of oratorical
effort on the part of the chief was translated to me there and then by the old Sheik Thani;
which having understood, I bade the Sheikh inform the chief that, after I had rested, I should
like him to visit me in my tent.

Having arrived at the khambi, which always surrounds some great baobab in Ugogo, at the distance
of about half a mile from the tembe of the Sultan, the Wagogo pressed in such great numbers
to the camp that Sheikh Thani resolved to make an effort to stop or mitigate the nuisance.
Dressing himself in his best clothes, he went to appeal to the Sultan for protection against
his people. The Sultan was very much inebriated, and was pleased to say, "What is it you want,
you thief?  You have come to steal my ivory or my cloth.  Go away, thief!"  But the sensible
chief, whose voice had just been heard reproaching the people for their treatment of the Wasungu,
beckoned to Thani to come out of the tembe, and then proceeded with him towards the khambi.

The camp was in a great uproar; the curious Wagogo monopolized almost every foot of ground;
there was no room to turn anywhere. The Wanyamwezi were quarreling with the Wagogo, the Wasawahili
servants were clamoring loud that the Wagogo pressed down their tents, and that the property
of the masters was in danger; while I, busy on my diary within my tent, cared not how great
was the noise and confusion outside as long as it confined itself to the Wagogo, Wanyamwezi,
and Wangwana.

The presence of the chief in the camp was followed by a deep silence that I was prevailed upon
to go outside to see what had caused it.  The chief's words were few, and to the point.  He
said, "To your tembes, Wagogo--to your tembes!  Why, do you come to trouble the Wakonongo:
What have you to do with them?  To your tembes: go!  Each Mgogo found in the khambi without
meal, without cattle to sell, shall pay to the mtemi cloth or cows. Away with you!"  Saying
which, he snatched up a stick and drove the hundreds out of the khambi, who were as obedient
to him as so many children.  During the two days we halted at Mukondoku we saw no more of the
mob, and there was peace.

The muhongo of the Sultan Swaruru was settled with few words.  The chief who acted for the
Sultan as his prime minister having been "made glad" with a doti of Rehani Ulyah from me, accepted
the usual tribute of six doti, only one of which was of first-class cloth.

There remained but one more sultan to whom muhongo must be paid after Mukondoku, and this was
the Sultan of Kiwyeh, whose reputation was so bad that owners of property who had control over
their pagazis seldom passed by Kiwyeh, preferring the hardships of long marches through the
wilderness to the rudeness and exorbitant demands of the chief of Kiwyeh.  But the pagazis,
on whom no burden or responsibility fell save that of carrying their loads, who could use their
legs and show clean heels in the case of a hostile outbreak, preferred the march to Kiwyeh
to enduring thirst and the fatigue of a terekeza.  Often the preference of the pagazis won
the day, when their employers were timid, irresolute men, like Sheikh Hamed.

The 7th of June was the day fixed for our departure from Mukondoku, so the day before, the
Arabs came to my tent to counsel with me as to the route we should adopt.  On calling together
the kirangozis of the respective caravans and veteran Wanyamwezi pagazis, we learned there
were three roads leading from Mukondoku to Uyanzi. The first was the southern road, and the
one generally adopted, for the reasons already stated, and led by Kiwyeh.  To this Hamed raised
objections.  "The Sultan was bad," he said; "he sometimes charged a caravan twenty doti; our
caravan would have to pay about sixty doti.  The Kiwyeh road would not do at all.  Besides,"
he added, "we have to make a terekeza to reach Kiwyeh, and then we will not reach it before
the day after to-morrow."  The second was the central road.  We should arrive at Munieka on
the morrow; the day after would be a terekeza from Mabunguru Nullah to a camp near Unyambogi;
two hours the next day would bring us to Kiti, where there was plenty of water and food.  As
neither of the kirangozis or Arabs knew this road, and its description came from one of my
ancient pagazis, Hamed said he did not like to trust the guidance of such a large caravan in
the hands of an old Mnyamwezi, and would therefore prefer to hear about the third road, before
rendering his decision.  The third road was the northern.  It led past numerous villages of
the Wagogo for the first two hours; then we should strike a jungle; and a three hours' march
would then bring us to Simbo, where there was water, but no village.  Starting early next morning,
we would travel six hours when we would arrive at a pool of water.  Here taking a short rest,
an afternoon march of five hours would bring us within three hours of another village.  As
this last road was known to many, Hamed said, "Sheikh Thani, tell the Sahib that I think this
is the best road."  Sheikh Thani was told, after he had informed me that, as I had marched
with them through Ugogo, if they decided upon going by Simbo, my caravan would follow.

Immediately after the discussion among the principals respecting the merits of the several
routes, arose a discussion among the pagazis which resulted in an obstinate clamor against
the Simbo road, for its long terekeza and scant prospects of water, the dislike to the Simbo
road communicated itself to all the caravans, and soon it was magnified by reports of a wilderness
reaching from Simbo to Kusuri, where there was neither food nor water to be obtained.  Hamed's
pagazis, and those of the Arab servants, rose in a body and declared they could not go on that
march, and if Hamed insisted upon adopting it they would put their packs down and leave him
to carry them himself.

Hamed Kimiani, as he was styled by the Arabs, rushed up to Sheikh Thani, and declared that
he must take the Kiwyeh road, otherwise his pagazis would all desert.  Thani replied that all
the roads were the same to him, that wherever Hamed chose to go, he would follow.  They then
came to my tent, and informed me of the determination at which the Wanyamwezi had arrived.
Calling my veteran Mnyamwezi, who had given me the favourable report once more to my tent,
I bade him give a correct account of the Kiti road.  It was so favourable that my reply to
Hamed was, that I was the master of my caravan, that it was to go wherever I told the kirangozi,
not where the pagazis chose; that when I told them to halt they must halt, and when I commanded
a march, a march should be made; and that as I fed them well and did not overwork them, I should
like to see the pagazi or soldier that disobeyed me.  "You made up your mind just now that
you would take the Simbo road, and we were agreed upon it, now your pagazis say they will take,
the Kiwyeh road, or desert.  Go on the Kiwyeh road and pay twenty doti muhongo.  I and my caravan
to-morrow morning will take the Kiti road, and when you find me in Unyanyembe one day ahead
of you, you will be sorry you did not take the same road."

This resolution of mine had the effect of again changing the current of Hamed's thoughts, for
he instantly said, "That is the best road after all, and as the Sahib is determined to go on
it, and we have all travelled together through the bad land of the Wagogo, Inshallah!  let
us all go the same way," and Thani=-good old man--not objecting, and Hamed having decided,
they both joyfully went out of the tent to communicate the news.

On the 7th the caravans--apparently unanimous that the Kiti road was to be taken--were led
as usual by Hamed's kirangozi.  We had barely gone a mile before I perceived that we had left
the Simbo road, had taken the direction of Kiti, and, by a cunning detour, were now fast approaching
the defile of the mountain ridge before us, which admitted access to the higher plateau of
Kiwyeh. Instantly halting my caravan, I summoned the veteran who had travelled by Kiti, and
asked him whether we were not going towards Kiwyeh.  He replied that we were.  Calling my pagazis
together, I bade Bombay tell them that the Musuugu never changed his mind; that as I had said
my caravan should march by Kiti; to Kiti it must go whether the Arabs followed or not.  I then
ordered the veteran to take up his load and show the kirangozi the proper road to Kiti.  The
Wanyamwezi pagazis put down their bales, and then there was every indication of a mutiny. 
The Wangwana soldiers were next ordered to load their guns and to flank the caravan, and shoot
the first pagazis who made an attempt to run away. Dismounting, I seized my whip, and, advancing
towards the first pagazi who had put down his load, I motioned to him to take up his load and
march.  It was unnecessary to proceed further; without an exception, all marched away obediently
after the kirangozi. I was about bidding farewell to Thani, and Hamed, when Thani said, "Stop
a bit, Sahib; I have had enough of this child's play; I come with you," and his caravan was
turned after mine.  Hamed's caravan was by this time close to the defile, and he himself was
a full mile behind it, weeping like a child at what he was pleased to call our desertion of
him.  Pitying his strait--for he was almost beside himself as thoughts of Kiwyeh's sultan,
his extortion and rudeness, swept across his mind--I advised him to run after his caravan,
and tell it, as all the rest had taken the other road, to think of the Sultan of Kiwyeh.  Before
reaching the Kiti defile I was aware that Hamed's caravan was following us.

The ascent of the ridge was rugged and steep, thorns of the prickliest nature punished us severely,
the acacia horrida was here more horrid than usual, the gums stretched out their branches,
and entangled the loads, the mimosa with its umbrella-like top served to shade us from the
sun, but impeded a rapid advance. Steep outcrops of syenite and granite, worn smooth by many
feet, had to be climbed over, rugged terraces of earth and rock had to be ascended, and distant
shots resounding through the forest added to the alarm and general discontent, and had I not
been immediately behind my caravan, watchful of every manoeuvre, my Wanyamwezi had deserted
to a man.  Though the height we ascended was barely 800 feet above the salina we had just left,
the ascent occupied two hours.

Having surmounted the plateau and the worst difficulties, we had a fair road comparatively,
which ran through jungle, forest, and small open tracts, which in three hours more brought
us to Munieka, a small village, surrounded by a clearing richly cultivated by a colony of subjects
of Swaruru of Mukondoku.

By the time we had arrived at camp everybody had recovered his good humour and content except
Hamed.  Thani's men happened to set his tent too close to Hamed's tree, around which his bales
were stacked.  Whether the little Sheikh imagined honest old Thani capable of stealing one
is not known, but it is certain that he stormed and raved about the near neighbourhood of his
best friend's tent, until Thani ordered its removal a hundred yards off.  This proceeding even,
it seems, did not satisfy Hamed, for it was quite midnight--as Thani said--when Hamed came,
and kissing his hands and feet, on his knees implored forgiveness, which of course Thani, being
the soul of good-nature, and as large-hearted as any man, willingly gave.  Hamed was not satisfied,
however, until, with the aid of his slaves, he had transported his friend's tent to where it
had at first been pitched.

The water at Munieka was obtained from a deep depression in a hump of syenite, and was as clear
as crystal, and' cold as ice-water--a luxury we had not experienced since leaving Simbamwenni.

We were now on the borders of Uyanzi, or, as it is better known, "Magunda Mkali "--the Hot-ground,
or Hot-field.  We had passed the village populated by Wagogo, and were about to shake the dust
of Ugogo from our feet.  We had entered Ugogo full of hopes, believing it a most pleasant land--a
land flowing with milk and honey.  We had been grievously disappointed; it proved to be a land
of gall and bitterness, full of trouble and vexation of spirit, where danger was imminent at
every step--where we were exposed to the caprice of inebriated sultans.  Is it a wonder, then,
that all felt happy at such a moment?  With the prospect before us of what was believed by
many to be a real wilderness, our ardor was not abated, but was rather strengthened.  The wilderness
in Africa proves to be, in many instances, more friendly than the populated country.  The kirangozi
blew his kudu horn much more merrily on this morning than he was accustomed to do while in
Ugogo.  We were about to enter Magunda Mkali.  At 9 A.M., three hours after leaving Munieka,
and two hours since we had left the extreme limits of Ugogo, we were halted at Mabunguru Nullah.
The Nullah runs southwesterly after leaving its source in the chain of hills dividing Ugogo
from Magunda Mkali.  During the rainy season it must be nearly impassable, owing to the excessive
slope of its bed.  Traces of the force of the torrent are seen in the syenite and basalt boulders
which encumber the course.  Their rugged angles are worn smooth, and deep basins are excavated
where the bed is of the rock, which in the dry season serve as reservoirs. Though the water
contained in them has a slimy and greenish appearance, and is well populated with frogs, it
is by no means unpalatable.

At noon we resumed our march, the Wanyamwezi cheering, shouting, and singing, the Wangwana
soldiers, servants, and pagazis vieing with them in volume of voice and noise-making the dim
forest through which we were now passing resonant with their voices.

The scenery was much more picturesque than any we had yet seen since leaving Bagamoyo.  The
ground rose into grander waves--hills cropped out here and there--great castles of syenite
appeared, giving a strange and weird appearance to the forest.  From a distance it would almost
seem as if we were approaching a bit of England as it must have appeared during feudalism;
the rocks assumed such strange fantastic shapes.  Now they were round boulders raised one above
another, apparently susceptible to every breath of wind; anon, they towered like blunt-pointed
obelisks, taller than the tallest trees; again they assumed the shape of mighty waves, vitrified;
here, they were a small heap of fractured and riven rock; there, they rose to the grandeur
of hills.

By  5 P.M. we had travelled twenty miles, and the signal was sounded for a halt.  At 1 A.M.,
the moon being up, Hamed's horn and voice were heard throughout the silent camp awaking his
pagazis for the march.  Evidently Sheikh Hamed was gone stark mad, otherwise why should he
be so frantic for the march at such an early hour? The dew was falling heavily, and chilled
one like frost; and an ominous murmur of deep discontent responded to the early call on all
sides.  Presuming, however, that he had obtained better information than we had, Sheikh Thani
and I resolved to be governed as the events proved him to be right or wrong.

As all were discontented, this night, march was performed in deep silence.  The thermometer
was at 53°, we being about 4,500 feet above the level of the sea.  The pagazis, almost naked,
walked quickly in order to keep warm, and by so doing many a sore foot was made by stumbling
against obtrusive roots and rocks, and treading on thorns.  At 3 A.M.  we arrived at the village
of Unyambogi, where we threw ourselves down to rest and sleep until dawn should reveal what
else was in store for the hard-dealt-with caravans.

It was broad daylight when I awoke; the sun was flaring his hot beams in my face.  Sheikh Thani
came soon after to inform me that Hamed had gone to Kiti two hours since; but he, when asked
to accompany him, positively refused, exclaiming against it as folly, and utterly unnecessary.
When my advice was asked by Thani, I voted the whole thing as sheer nonsense; and, in turn,
asked him what a terekeza was for?  Was it not an afternoon march to enable caravans to reach
water and food?  Thani replied than it was.  I then asked him if there was no water or food
to be obtained in Unyambogi.  Thani replied that he had not taken pains to inquire, but was
told by the villagers that there was an abundance of matamia, hindi, maweri, sheep; goats,
and chickens in their village at cheap prices, such as were not known in Ugogo.

"Well, then," said I, "if Hamed wants to be a fool, and kill his pagazis, why should we?  I
have as much cause for haste as Sheikh Hamed; but Unyanyembe is far yet, and I am not going
to endanger my property by playing the madman."

As Thani had reported, we found an abundance of provisions at the village, and good sweet water
from some pits close by.  A sheep cost one chukka; six chickens were also purchased at that
price; six measures of matama, maweri, or hindi, were procurable for the same sum; in short,
we were coming, at last, into the land of plenty.

On the 10th June we arrived at Kiti after a journey of four hours and a half, where we found
the irrepressible Hamed halted in sore trouble.  He who would be a Caesar, proved to be an
irresolute Antony.  He had to sorrow over the death of a favourite slave girl, the loss of
five dish-dashes (Arab shirts), silvered-sleeve and gold-embroidered jackets, with which he
had thought to enter Unyanyembe in state, as became a merchant of his standing, which had disappeared
with three absconding servants, besides copper trays, rice, and pilau dishes, and two bales
of cloth with runaway Wangwana pagazis.  Selim, my Arab servant, asked him, "What are you doing
here, Sheikh Hamed?  I thought you were well on the road to Unyanyembe."  Said he, "Could I
leave Thani, my friend, behind?"

Kiti abounded in cattle and grain, and we were able to obtain food at easy rates.  The Wakimbu,
emigrants from Ukimbu, near Urori, are a quiet race, preferring the peaceful arts of agriculture
to war; of tending their flocks to conquest.  At the least rumor of war they remove their property
and family, and emigrate to the distant wilderness, where they begin to clear the land, and
to hunt the elephant for his ivory.  Yet we found them to be a fine race, and well armed, and
seemingly capable, by their numbers and arms, to compete with any tribe.  But here, as elsewhere,
disunion makes them weak.  They are mere small colonies, each colony ruled by its own chief;
whereas, were they united, they might make a very respectable front before an enemy.

Our next destination was Msalalo, distant fifteen miles from Kiti. Hamed, after vainly searching
for his runaways and the valuable property he had lost, followed us, and tried once more, when
he saw us encamped at Msalalo, to pass us; but his pagazis failed him, the march having been
so long.

Welled Ngaraiso was reached on the 15th, after a three and a half hours' march.  It is a flourishing
little place, where provisions were almost twice as cheap as they were at Unyambogi.  Two hours'
march south is Jiweh la Mkoa, on the old road, towards which the road which we have been travelling
since leaving Bagamoyo was now rapidly leading.

Unyanyembe being near, the pagazis and soldiers having behaved excellently during the lengthy
marches we had lately made, I purchased a bullock for three doti, and had it slaughtered for
their special benefit.  I also gave each a khete of red beads to indulge his appetite for whatever
little luxury the country afforded.  Milk and honey were plentiful, and three frasilah of sweet
potatoes were bought for a shukka, equal to about 40 cents of our money.

The 13th June brought us to the last village of Magunda Mkali, in the district of Jiweh la
Singa, after a short march of eight miles and three-quarters.  Kusuri--so called by the Arabs--is
called Konsuli by the Wakimbu who inhabit it.  This is, however, but one instance out of many
where the Arabs have misnamed or corrupted the native names of villages and districts.

Between Ngaraiso and Kusuri we passed the village of Kirurumo, now a thriving place, with many
a thriving village near it.  As we passed it, the people came out to greet the Musungu, whose
advent had been so long heralded by his loud-mouthed caravans, and whose soldiers had helped
them win the day in a battle against their fractious brothers of Jiweh la Mkoa.

A little further on we came across a large khambi, occupied by Sultan bin Mohammed, an Omani
Arab of high descent, who, as soon as he was notified of my approach, came out to welcome me,
and invite me to his khambi.  As his harem lodged in his tent, of course I was not invited
thither; but a carpet outside was ready for his visitor. After the usual questions had been
asked about my health, the news of the road, the latest from Zanzibar and Oman, he asked me
if I had much cloth with me.  This was a question often asked by owners of down caravans, and
the reason of it is that the Arabs, in their anxiety to make as much as possible of their cloth
at the ivory ports on the Tanganika and elsewhere, are liable to forget that they should retain
a portion for the down marches.  As, indeed, I had but a bale left of the quantity of cloth
retained for provisioning my party on the road, when outfitting my caravans on the coast, I
could unblushingly reply in the negative.

I halted a day at Kusuri to give my caravan a rest, after its long series of marches, before
venturing on the two days' march through the uninhabited wilderness that separates the district
of Jiweh la Singa Uyanzi from the district of Tura in Unyanyembe. Hamed preceded, promising
to give Sayd bin Salim notice of my coming, and to request him to provide a tembe for me.

On the 15th, having ascertained that Sheikh Thani would be detained several days at Kusuri,
owing to the excessive number of his people who were laid up with that dreadful plague of East
Africa, the small-pox, I bade him farewell, and my caravan struck out of Kusuri once more for
the wilderness and the jungle.  A little before noon we halted at the Khambi of Mgongo Tembo,
or the Elephant's Back--so called from a wave of rock whose back, stained into dark brownness
by atmospheric influences, is supposed by the natives to resemble the blue-brown back of this
monster of the forest.  My caravan had quite an argument with me here, as to whether we should
make the terekeza on this day or on the next. The majority was of the opinion that the next
day would be the best for a terekeza; but I, being the "bana," consulting my own interests,
insisted, not without a flourish or two of my whip, that the terekeza should be made on this day.

Mgongo Tembo, when Burton and Speke passed by, was a promising settlement, cultivating many
a fair acre of ground.  But two years ago war broke out, for some bold act of its people upon
caravans, and the Arabs came from Unyanyembe with their Wangwana servants, attacked them, burnt
the villages, and laid waste the work of years.  Since that time Mgongo Tembo has been but
blackened wrecks of houses, and the fields a sprouting jungle.

A cluster of date palm-trees, overtopping a dense grove close to the mtoni of Mgongo Tembo,
revived my recollections of Egypt. The banks of the stream, with their verdant foliage, presented
a strange contrast to the brown and dry appearance of the jungle which lay on either side.

At 1 P.M.  we resumed our loads and walking staffs, and in a short time were en route for the
Ngwhalah Mtoni, distant eight and three-quarter miles from the khambi.  The sun was hot; like
a globe of living, seething flame, it flared its heat full on our heads; then as it descended
towards the west, scorched the air before it was inhaled by the lungs which craved it.  Gourds
of water were emptied speedily to quench the fierce heat that burned the throat and lungs.
One pagazi, stricken heavily with the small-pox, succumbed, and threw himself down on the roadside
to die. We never saw him afterwards, for the progress of a caravan on a terekeza, is something
like that of a ship in a hurricane.  The caravan must proceed--woe befall him who lags behind,
for hunger and thirst will overtake him--so must a ship drive before the fierce gale to escape
foundering--woe befall him who falls overboard!

An abundance of water, good, sweet, and cool, was found in the bed of the mtoni in deep stony
reservoirs.  Here also the traces of furious torrents were clearly visible as at Mabunguru.

The Nghwhalah commences in Ubanarama to the north--a country famous for its fine breed of donkeys--and
after running south, south-south-west, crosses the Unyanyembe road, from which point it has
more of a westerly turn.

On the 16th we arrived at Madedita, so called from a village which was, but is now no more.
Madedita is twelve and a half miles from the Nghwhalah Mtoni.  A pool of good water a few hundred
yards from the roadside is the only supply caravans can obtain, nearer than Tura in Unyamwezi.
The tsetse or chufwa-fly, as called by the Wasawahili, stung us dreadfully, which is a sign
that large game visit the pool sometimes, but must not be mistaken for an indication that there
is any in the immediate neighbourhood of the water. A single pool so often frequented by passing
caravans, which must of necessity halt here, could not be often visited by the animals of the
forest, who are shy in this part of Africa of the haunts of man.

At dawn the neat day we were on the road striding at a quicker pace than on most days, since
we were about to quit Magunda Mali for the more populated and better land of Unyamwezi.  The
forest held its own for a wearisomely long time, but at the end of two hours it thinned, then
dwarfed into low jungle, and finally vanished altogether, and we had arrived on the soil of
Unyamwezi, with a broad plain, swelling, subsiding, and receding in lengthy and grand undulations
in our front to one indefinite horizontal line which purpled in the far distance.  The view
consisted of fields of grain ripening, which followed the contour of the plain, and which rustled
merrily before the morning breeze that came laden with the chills of Usagara.

At 8 A.M. we had arrived at the frontier village of Unyamwezi, Eastern Tura, which we invaded
without any regard to the disposition of the few inhabitants who lived there.  Here we found
Nondo, a runaway of Speke's, one of those who had sided with Baraka against Bombay, who, desiring
to engage himself with me,  was engaging enough to furnish honey and sherbet to his former
companions, and lastly to the pagazis.  It was only a short breathing pause we made here, having
another hour's march to reach Central Tura.

The road from Eastern Tura led through vast fields of millet, Indian corn, holcus sorghum,
maweri, or panicum, or bajri, as called by the Arabs; gardens of sweet potatoes, large tracts
of cucumbers, water-melons, mush-melons, and pea-nuts which grew in the deep furrows between
the ridges of the holcus.

Some broad-leafed plantain plants were also seen in the neighbourhood of the villages, which
as we advanced became very numerous.  The villages of the Wakimbu are like those of the Wagogo,
square, flat-roofed, enclosing an open area, which is sometimes divided into three or four
parts by fences or matama stalks.

At central Tura, where we encamped, we had evidence enough of the rascality of the Wakimbu
of Tura.  Hamed, who, despite his efforts to reach Unyanyembe in time to sell his cloths before
other Arabs came with cloth supplies, was unable to compel his pagazis to the double march
every day, was also encamped at Central Tura, together with the Arab servants who preferred
Hamed's imbecile haste to Thani's cautious advance.  Our first night in Unyamwezi was very
exciting indeed.  The Musungu's camp was visited by two crawling thieves, but they were soon
made aware by the portentous click of a trigger that the white man's camp was well guarded.

Hamed's camp was next visited; but here also the restlessness of the owner frustrated their
attempts, for he was pacing backwards and forwards through his camp, with a loaded gun in his
hand; and the thieves were obliged to relinquish the chance of stealing any of his bales. 
From Hamed's they proceeded to Hassan's camp (one of the Arab servants), where they were successful
enough to reach and lay hold of a couple of bales; but, unfortunately, they made a  noise,
which awoke the vigilant and quick-eared slave, who snatched his loaded musket, and in a moment
had shot one of them through the heart.  Such were our experiences of the Wakimbu of Tura.

On the 18th the three caravans, Hamed's, Hassan's, and my own, left Tura by a road which zig-zagged
towards all points through the tall matama fields.  In an hour's time we had passed Tura Perro,
or Western Tura, and had entered the forest again, whence the Wakimbu of Tura obtain their
honey, and where they excavate deep traps for the elephants with which the forest is said to
abound.  An hour's march from Western Tura brought us to a ziwa, or pond.  There were two,
situated in the midst of a small open mbuga, or plain, which, even at this late season, was
yet soft from the water which overflows it during the rainy season. After resting three hours,
we started on the terekeza, or afternoon march.

It was one and the same forest that we had entered soon after leaving Western Tura, that we
travelled through until we reached the Kwala Mtoni, or, as Burton has misnamed it on his map,
"Kwale." The water of this mtoni is contained in large ponds, or deep depressions in the wide
and crooked gully of Kwala.  In these ponds a species of mud-fish, was found, off one of which
I made a meal, by no means to be despised by one who had not tasted fish since leaving Bagamoyo.
Probably, if I had my choice, being, when occasion demands it, rather fastidious in my tastes,
I would not select the mud-fish.

From Tura to the Kwala Mtoni is seventeen and a half miles, a distance which, however easy
it may be traversed once a fortnight, assumes a prodigious length when one has to travel it
almost every other day, at least, so my pagazis, soldiers, and followers found it, and their
murmurs were very loud when I ordered the signal to be sounded on the march.  Abdul Kader,
the tailor who had attached himself to me, as a man ready-handed at all things, from mending
a pair of pants, making a delicate entremets, or shooting an elephant, but whom the interior
proved to be the weakliest of the weakly, unfit for anything except eating and drinking---almost
succumbed on this march.

Long ago the little stock of goods which Abdul had brought from Zanzibar folded in a pocket-handkerchief,
and with which he was about to buy ivory and slaves, and make his fortune in the famed land
of Unyamwezi, had disappeared with the great eminent hopes he had built on them, like those
of Alnaschar the unfortunate owner of crockery in the Arabian tale.  He came to me as we prepared
for the march, with a most dolorous tale about his approaching death, which he felt in his
bones, and weary back: his legs would barely hold him up; in short, he had utterly collapsed--would
I take mercy on him, and let him depart?  The cause of this extraordinary request, so unlike
the spirit with which he had left Zanzibar, eager to possess the ivory and slaves of Unyamwezi,
was that on the last long march, two of my donkeys being dead, I had ordered that the two saddles
which they had carried should be Abdul Kader's load to Unyanyembe.  The weight of the saddles
was 16 lbs., as the spring balance-scale indicated, yet Abdul Kader became weary of life, as,
he counted the long marches that intervened between the mtoni and Unyanyembe.  On the ground
he fell prone, to kiss my feet, begging me in the name of God to permit him to depart.

As I had had some experience of Hindoos, Malabarese, and coolies in Abyssinia, I knew exactly
how to deal with a case like this. Unhesitatingly I granted the request as soon as asked, for
as much tired as Abdul Kader said he was of life, I was with Abdul Kader's worthlessness. 
But the Hindi did not want to be left in the jungle, he said, but, after arriving in Unyanyembe.
"Oh," said I, "then you must reach Unyanyembe first; in the meanwhile you will carry those
saddles there for the food which you must eat."

As the march to Rubuga was eighteen and three-quarter miles, the pagazis walked fast and long
without resting.

Rubuga, in the days of Burton, according to his book, was a prosperous district.  Even when
we passed, the evidences of wealth and prosperity which it possessed formerly, were plain enough
in the wide extent of its grain fields, which stretched to the right and left of the Unyanyembe
road for many a mile.  But they were only evidences of what once were numerous villages, a
well- cultivated and populous district, rich in herds of cattle and stores of grain.  All the
villages are burnt down, the people have been driven north three or four days from Rubuga,
the cattle were taken by force, the grain fields were left standing, to be overgrown with jungle
and rank weeds.  We passed village after village that had been burnt, and were mere blackened
heaps of charred timber and smoked clay; field after field of grain ripe years ago was yet
standing in the midst of a crop of gums and thorns, mimosa and kolquall.

We arrived at the village, occupied by about sixty Wangwana, who have settled here to make
a living by buying and selling ivory.  Food is provided for them in the deserted fields of
the people of Rubuga.  We were very tired and heated from the long march, but the pagazis had
all arrived by 3 p.m.

At the Wangwana village we met Amer bin Sultan, the very type of an old Arab sheikh, such as
we read of in books, with a snowy beard, and a clean reverend face, who was returning to Zanzibar
after a ten years' residence in Unyanyembe.  He presented me with a goat; and a goatskin full
of rice; a most acceptable gift in a place where a goat costs five cloths.

After a day's halt at Rubuga, during which I despatched soldiers to notify Sheikh Sayd bin
Salim and Sheikh bin Nasib, the two chief dignitaries of Unyanyembe, of my coming, on the 21st
of June we resumed the march for Kigwa, distant five hours.  The road ran through another forest
similar to that which separated Tura from Rubuga, the country rapidly sloping as we proceeded
westward. Kigwa we found to have been visited by the same vengeance which rendered Rubuga such
a waste.

The next day, after a three and a half hours' rapid march, we crossed the mtoni--which was
no mtoni--separating Kigwa from Unyanyembe district, and after a short halt to quench our thirst,
in three and a half hours more arrived at Shiza.  It was a most delightful march, though a
long one, for its picturesqueness of scenery which every few minutes was revealed, and the
proofs we everywhere saw of the peaceable and industrious disposition of the people.  A short
half hour from Shiza we beheld the undulating plain wherein the Arabs have chosen to situate
the central depot which commands such wide and extensive field of trade.  The lowing of cattle
and the bleating of the goats and sheep were everywhere heard, giving the country a happy,
pastoral aspect.

The Sultan of Shiza desired me to celebrate my arrival in Unyanyembe, with a five-gallon jar
of pombe, which he brought for that purpose.

As the pombe was but stale ale in taste, and milk and water in colour, after drinking a small
glassful I passed it to the delighted soldiers and pagazis.  At my request the Sultan brought
a fine fat bullock, for which he accepted four and a half doti of Merikani. The bullock was
immediately slaughtered and served out to the caravan as a farewell feast.

No one slept much that night, and long before the dawn the fires were lit, and great steaks
were broiling, that their stomachs might rejoice before parting with the Musungu, whose bounty
they had so often tasted.  Six rounds of powder were served to each soldier and pagazi who
owned a gun, to fire away when we should be near the Arab houses.  The meanest pagazi had his
best cloth about his loins, and some were exceedingly brave in gorgeous Ulyah "Coombeesa Poonga"
and crimson "Jawah," the glossy  "Rehani," and the neat "Dabwani."  The soldiers were mustered
in new tarbooshes, and the long white shirts of the Mrima and the Island.  For this was the
great and happy day which had been on our tongues ever since quitting the coast, for which
we had made those noted marches latterly--one hundred and seventy-eight and a half miles in
sixteen days, including pauses--something over eleven miles a day

The signal sounded and the caravan was joyfully off with banners flying, and trumpets and horns
blaring.  A short two and a half hours' march brought us within sight of Kwikuru, which is
about two miles south of Tabora, the main Arab town; on the outside of which we saw a long
line of men in clean shirts, whereat we opened our charged batteries, and fired a volley of
small arms such

as Kwikuru seldom heard before.  The pagazis closed up and adopted the swagger of veterans:
the soldiers blazed away uninterruptedly, while I, seeing that the Arabs were advancing towards
me, left the ranks, and held out my hand, which was immediately grasped by Sheikh Sayd bin
Salim, and then by about two dozen people, and thus our entrée into Unyanyembe was effected.

CHAPTER VIII.  MY LIFE AND TROUBLES DURING MY RESIDENCE IN UNYAS
               NYEMBE.  I BECOME ENGAGED IN A WAR.

I received a noiseless ovation as I walked side by side with the governor, Sayd bin Salim,
towards his tembe in Kwikuru, or the capital.  The Wanyamwezi pagazis were out by hundreds,
the warriors of Mkasiwa, the sultan, hovered around their chief, the children were seen between
the legs of their parents, even infants, a few months old, slung over their mothers' backs,
all paid the tribute due to my colour, with one grand concentrated stare.  The only persons
who talked with me were the Arabs, and aged Mkasiwa, ruler of Unyanyembe.

Sayd bin Salim's house was at the north-western corner of the inclosure, a stockaded boma of
Kwikuru.  We had tea made in a silver tea-pot, and a bountiful supply of "dampers" were smoking
under a silver cover; and to this repast I was invited.  When a man has walked eight miles
or so without any breakfast, and a hot tropical sun has been shining on him for three or four
hours, he is apt to do justice to a meal, especially if his appetite is healthy.  I think I
astonished the governor by the dexterous way in which I managed to consume eleven cups of his
aromatic concoction of an Assam herb, and the easy effortless style with which I demolished
his high tower of "slap jacks," that but a minute or so smoked hotly under their silver cover.

For the meal, I thanked the Sheikh, as only an earnest and sincerely hungry man, now satisfied,
could thank him.  Even if I had not spoken, my gratified looks had well informed him, under
what obligations I had been laid to him.

Out came my pipe and tobacco-pouch.

"My friendly Sheikh, wilt thou smoke?"

"No, thanks!  Arabs never smoke."

"Oh, if you don't, perhaps you would not object to me smoking, in order to assist digestion?"

"Ngema--good--go on, master."

Then began the questions, the gossipy, curious, serious, light questions:

"How came the master?

"By the Mpwapwa road."

"It is good.  Was the Makata bad?"

"Very bad."

"What news from Zanzibar?"

"Good; Syed Toorkee has possession of Muscat, and Azim bin Ghis was slain in the streets."

"Is this true, Wallahi?" (by God.)

"It is true."

"Heh-heh-h!  This is news!"--stroking his beard.

"Have you heard, master, of Suleiman bin Ali?"

"Yes, the Bombay governor sent him to Zanzibar, in a man-of-war, and Suleiman bin Ali now lies
in the gurayza (fort)."

"Heh, that is very good."

"Did you have to pay much tribute to the Wagogo?"

"Eight times; Hamed Kimiani wished me to go by Kiwyeh, but I declined, and struck through the
forest to Munieka.  Hamed and Thani thought it better to follow me, than brave Kiwyeh by themselves."

"Where is that Hajji Abdullah (Captain Burton) that came here, and Spiki?" (Speke.)

"Hajji Abdullah!  What Hajji Abdullah?  Ah! Sheikh Burton we call him.  Oh, he is a great man
now; a balyuz (a consul) at El Scham" (Damascus.)

"Heh-heh; balyuz!  Heh, at El Scham!  Is not that near Betlem el Kuds?" (Jerusalem.)

"Yes, about four days.  Spiki is dead.  He shot himself by accident."

"Ah, ah, Wallah (by God), but this is bad news.  Spiki dead? Mash-Allah!  Ough, he was a good
man--a good man!  Dead!"

"But where is this Kazeh, Sheikh Sayd?"

Kazeh? Kazeh? I never heard the name before."

"But you were with Burton, and Speke, at Kazeh; you lived there several months, when you were
all stopping in Unyanyembe; it must be close here; somewhere.  Where did Hajji Abdullah and
Spiki live when they were in Unyanyembe?  Was it not in Musa Mzuri's house?"

"That was in Tabora."

"Well, then, where is Kazeh?  I have never seen the man yet who could tell me where that place
is, and yet the three white men have that word down, as the name of the place they lived at
when you were with them.  You must know where it is."

"Wallahi, bana, I never heard the name; but stop, Kazeh, in Kinyamwezi, means 'kingdom.' Perhaps
they gave that name to the place they stopped at.  But then, I used to call the first house
Sny bin Amer's house, and Speke lived at Musa Mzuri's house, but both houses, as well as all
the rest, are in Tabora."

"Thank you, sheikh.  I should like to go and look after my people; they must all be wanting food."

"I shall go with you to show you your house.  The tembe is in Kwihara, only an hour's walk
from Tabora."

On leaving Kwikuru we crossed a low ridge, and soon saw Kwihara lying between two low ranges
of hills, the northernmost of which was terminated westward by the round fortress-like hill
of Zimbili. There was a cold glare of intense sunshine over the valley, probably the effect
of an universal bleakness or an autumnal ripeness of the grass, unrelieved by any depth of
colour to vary the universal sameness.  The hills were bleached, or seemed to be, under that
dazzling sunshine, and clearest atmosphere.  The corn had long been cut, and there lay the
stubble, and fields,--a browny- white expanse; the houses were of mud, and their fiat roofs
were of mud, and the mud was of a browny-whiteness; the huts were thatched, and the stockades
around them of barked timber, and these were of a browny whiteness.  The cold, fierce, sickly
wind from the mountains of Usagara sent a deadly chill to our very marrows, yet the intense
sunshiny glare never changed, a black cow or two, or a tall tree here and there, caught the
eye for a moment, but they never made one forget that the first impression of Kwihara was as
of a picture without colour, or of food without taste; and if one looked up, there was a sky
of a pale blue, spotless, and of an awful serenity.

As I approached the tembe of Sayd bin Salim, Sheikh bin Nasib and other great Arabs joined
us.  Before the great door of the tembe the men had stacked the bales, and piled the boxes,
and were using their tongues at a furious rate, relating to the chiefs and soldiers of the
first, second, and fourth caravans the many events which had befallen them, and which seemed
to them the only things worth relating.  Outside of their own limited circles they evidently
cared for nothing.  Then the several chiefs of the other caravans had in turn to relate their
experiences of the road; and the noise of tongues was loud and furious.  But as we approached,
all this loud-sounding gabble ceased, and my caravan chiefs and guides rushed to me to hail
me as "master," and to salute me as their friend.  One fellow, faithful Baruti, threw himself
at my feet, the others fired their guns and acted like madmen suddenly become frenzied, and
a general cry of "welcome" was heard on all sides.

"Walk in, master, this is your house, now; here are your men's quarters; here you will receive
the great Arabs, here is the cook-house; here is the store-house; here is the prison for the
refractory; here are your white man's apartments; and these are your own: see, here is the
bedroom, here is the gun-room, bath-room, &c.;" so Sheikh Sayd talked, as he showed me the
several places.

On my honour, it was a most comfortable place, this, in Central Africa.  One could almost wax
poetic, but we will keep such ambitious ideas for a future day.  Just now, however, we must
have the goods stored, and the little army of carriers paid off and disbanded.

Bombay was ordered to unlock the strong store-room, to pile the bales in regular tiers, the
beads in rows one above another, and the wire in a separate place.  The boats, canvas, &c.,
were to be placed high above reach of white ants, and the boxes of ammunition and powder kegs
were to be stored in the gun-room, out of reach of danger.  Then a bale of cloth was opened,
and each carrier was rewarded according to his merits, that each of them might proceed home
to his friends and neighbours, and tell them how much better the white man behaved than the Arabs.

The reports of the leaders of the first, second, and fourth caravans were then received, their
separate stores inspected, and the details and events of their marches heard.  The first caravan
had been engaged in a war at Kirurumo, and had come out of the fight successful, and had reached
Unyanyembe without loss of anything.  The second had shot a thief in the forest between Pembera
Pereh and Kididimo; the fourth had lost a bale in the jungle of Marenga Mkali, and the porter
who carried it had received a "very sore head" from a knob stick wielded by one of the thieves,
who prowl about the jungle near the frontier of Ugogo. I was delighted to find that their misfortunes
were no more, and each leader was then and there rewarded with one handsome cloth, and five
doti of Merikani.

Just as I began to feel hungry again, came several slaves in succession, bearing trays full
of good things from the Arabs; first an enormous dish of rice, with a bowlful of curried chicken,
another with a dozen huge wheaten cakes, another with a plateful of smoking hot crullers, another
with papaws, another with pomegranates and lemons; after these came men driving five fat hump
backed oxen, eight sheep, and ten goats, and another man with a dozen chickens, and a dozen
fresh eggs.  This was real, practical, noble courtesy, munificent hospitality, which quite
took my gratitude by storm.

My people, now reduced to twenty-five, were as delighted at the prodigal plenitude visible
on my tables and in my yard, as I was myself.  And as I saw their eyes light up at the unctuous
anticipations presented to them by their riotous fancies, I ordered a bullock to be slaughtered
and distributed.

The second day of the arrival of the Expedition in the country which I now looked upon as classic
ground, since Capts. Burton, Speke, and Grant years ago had visited it, and described it, came
the Arab magnates from Tabora to congratulate me.

Tabora* is the principal Arab settlement in Central Africa.  It contains over a thousand huts
and tembes, and one may safely estimate the population, Arabs, Wangwana, and natives, at five
thousand people.  Between Tabora and the next settlement, Kwihara, rise two rugged hill ridges,
separated from each other by a low saddle, over the top of which Tabora is always visible from
Kwihara.

* There is no such recognised place as Kazeh.

They were a fine, handsome body of men, these Arabs.  They mostly hailed from Oman: others
were Wasawahili; and each of my visitors had quite a retinue with him.  At Tabora they live
quite luxuriously. The plain on which the settlement is situated is exceedingly fertile, though
naked of trees; the rich pasturage it furnishes permits them to keep large herds of cattle
and goats, from which they have an ample supply of milk, cream, butter, and ghee.  Rice is
grown everywhere; sweet potatoes, yams, muhogo, holcus sorghum, maize, or Indian corn, sesame,
millet, field-peas, or vetches, called choroko, are cheap, and always procurable.  Around their
tembes the Arabs cultivate a little wheat for their own purposes, and have planted orange,
lemon, papaw, and mangoes, which thrive here fairly well.  Onions and garlic, chilies, cucumbers,
tomatoes, and brinjalls, may be procured by the white visitor from the more important Arabs,
who are undoubted epicureans in their way.  Their slaves convey to them from the coast, once
a year at least, their stores of tea, coffee sugar, spices, jellies, curries, wine, brandy,
biscuits, sardines, salmon, and such fine cloths and articles as they require for their own
personal use.  Almost every Arab of any eminence is able to show a wealth of Persian carpets,
and most luxurious bedding, complete tea and coffee-services, and magnificently carved dishes
of tinned copper and brass lavers. Several of them sport gold watches and chains, mostly all
a watch and chain of some kind.  And, as in Persia, Afghanistan, and Turkey, the harems form
an essential feature of every Arab's household; the sensualism of the Mohammedans is as prominent
here as in the Orient.

The Arabs who now stood before the front door of my tembe were the donors of the good things
received the day before.  As in duty bound, of course, I greeted Sheikh Sayd first, then Sheikh
bin Nasib, his Highness of Zanzibar's consul at Karagwa, then I greeted the noblest Trojan
amongst the Arab population, noblest in bearing, noblest in courage and manly worth--Sheikh
Khamis bin Abdullah; then young Amram bin Mussoud, who is now making war on the king of Urori
and his fractious people; then handsome, courageous Soud, the son of Sayd bin Majid; then dandified
Thani bin Abdullah; then Mussoud bin Abdullah and his cousin Abdullah bin Mussoud, who own
the houses where formerly lived Burton and Speke; then old Suliman Dowa, Sayd bin Sayf, and
the old Hetman of Tabora--Sheikh Sultan bin Ali.

As the visit of these magnates, under whose loving protection white travellers must needs submit
themselves, was only a formal one, such as Arab etiquette, ever of the stateliest and truest,
impelled them to, it is unnecessary to relate the discourse on my health, and their wealth,
my thanks, and their professions of loyalty, and attachment to me.  After having expended our
mutual stock of congratulations and nonsense, they departed, having stated their wish that
I should visit them at Tabora and partake of a feast which they were about to prepare for me.

Three days afterwards I sallied out of my tembe, escorted by eighteen bravely dressed men of
my escort, to pay Tabora a visit.  On surmounting the saddle over which the road from the valley
of Kwihara leads to Tabora, the plain on which the Arab settlement is situated lay before us,
one expanse of dun pasture land, stretching from the base bf the hill on our left as far as
the banks of the northern Gombe, which a few miles beyond Tabora heave into purple-coloured
hills and blue cones.

Within three-quarters of an hour we were seated on the mud veranda of the tembe of Sultan bin
Ali, who, because of his age, his wealth, and position--being a colonel in Seyd Burghash's
unlovely army--is looked upon by his countrymen, high and low, as referee and counsellor. 
His boma or enclosure contains quite a village of hive-shaped huts and square tembes.  From
here, after being presented with a cup of Mocha coffee, and some sherbet, we directed our steps
towards Khamis bin Abdullah's house, who had, in anticipation of my coming, prepared a feast
to which he had invited his friends and neighbours.  The group of stately Arabs in their long
white dresses, and jaunty caps, also of a snowy white, who stood ready to welcome me to Tabora,
produced quite an effect on my mind.  I was in time for a council of war they were holding--and
I was,requested to attend.

Khamis bin Abdullah, a bold and brave man, ever ready to stand up for the privileges of the
Arabs, and their rights to pass through any countries for legitimate trade, is the man who,
in Speke's `Journal of the Discovery of the Source of the Nile,' is reported to have shot Maula,
an old chief who sided with Manwa Sera during the wars of 1860; and who subsequently, after
chasing his relentless enemy for five years through Ugogo and Unyamwezi as far as Ukonongo,
had the satisfaction of beheading him, was now urging the Arabs to assert their rights against
a chief called Mirambo of Uyoweh, in a crisis which was advancing.

This Mirambo of Uyoweh, it seems, had for the last few years been in a state of chronic discontent
with the policies of the neighbouring chiefs.  Formerly a pagazi for an Arab, he had now assumed
regal power, with the usual knack of unconscionable rascals who care not by what means they
step into power.  When the chief of Uyoweh died, Mirambo, who was head of a gang of robbers
infesting the forests of Wilyankuru, suddenly entered Uyoweh, and constituted himself lord
paramount by force.  Some feats of enterprise, which he performed to the enrichment of all
those who recognised his authority, established him firmly in his position. This was but a
beginning; he carried war through Ugara to Ukonongo, through Usagozi to the borders of Uvinza,
and after destroying the populations over three degrees of latitude, he conceived a grievance
against Mkasiwa, and against the Arabs, because they would not sustain him in his ambitious
projects against their ally and friend, with whom they were living in peace.

The first outrage which this audacious man committed against the Arabs was the halting of an
Ujiji-bound caravan, and the demand for five kegs of gunpowder, five guns, and five bales of
cloth.  This extraordinary demand, after expending more than a day in fierce controversy, was
paid; but the Arabs, if they were surprised at the exorbitant black-mail demanded of them,
were more than ever surprised when they were told to return the way they came; and that no
Arab caravan should pass through his country to Ujiji except over his dead body.

On the return of the unfortunate Arabs to Unyanyembe, they reported the facts to Sheikh Sayd
bin Salim, the governor of the Arab colony.  This old man, being averse to war, of course tried
every means to induce Mirambo as of old to be satisfied with presents; but Mirambo this time
was obdurate, and sternly determined on war unless the Arabs aided him in the warfare he was
about to wage against old Mkasiwa, sultan of the Wanyamwezi of Unyanyembe.

"This is the status of affairs," said Khamis bin Abdullah. "Mirambo says that for years he
has been engaged in war against the neighbouring Washensi and has come out of it victorious;
he says this is a great year with him; that he is going to fight the Arabs, and the Wanyamwezi
of Unyanyembe, and that he shall not stop until every Arab is driven from Unyanyembe, and he
rules over this country in place of Mkasiwa.  Children of Oman, shall it be so?  Speak, Salim,
son of Sayf, shall we go to meet this Mshensi (pagan) or shall we return to our island?"

A murmur of approbation followed the speech of Khamis bin Abdullah, the majority of those present
being young men eager to punish the audacious Mirambo.  Salim, the son of Sayf, an old patriarch,
slow of speech, tried to appease the passions of the young men, scions of the aristocracy of
Muscat and Muttrah, and Bedaweens of the Desert, but Khamis's bold words had made too deep
an impression on their minds.

Soud, the handsome Arab whom I have noticed already as the son of Sayd the son of Majid, spoke:
"My father used to tell me that he remembered the days when the Arabs could go through the
country from Bagamoyo to Ujiji, and from Kilwa to Lunda, and from Usenga to Uganda armed with
canes.  Those days are gone by.  We have stood the insolence of the Wagogo long enough.  Swaruru
of Usui just takes from us whatever he wants; and now, here is Mirambo, who says, after taking
more than five bales of cloth as tribute from one man, that no Arab caravan shall go to Ujiji,
but over his body. Are we prepared to give up the ivory of Ujiji, of Urundi, of Karagwah, of
Uganda, because of this one man?  I say war--war until we have got his beard under our feet--war
until the whole of Uyoweh and Wilyankuru is destroyed--war until we can again travel through
any part of the country with only our walking canes in our hands!"

The universal assent that followed Send's speech proved beyond a doubt that we were about to
have a war.  I thought of Livingstone.  What if he were marching to Unyanyembe directly into
the war country?

Having found from the Arabs that they intended to finish the war quickly--at most within fifteen
days, as Uyoweh was only four marches distant--I volunteered to accompany them, take my loaded
caravan with me as far as Mfuto, and there leave it in charge of a few guards, and with the
rest march on with the Arab army.  And my hope was, that it might be possible, after the defeat
of Mirambo, and his forest banditti--the Ruga-Ruga--to take my Expedition direct to Ujiji by
the road now closed.  The Arabs were sanguine of victory, and I partook of their enthusiasm.

The council of war broke up.  A great dishful of rice and curry, in which almonds, citron,
raisins, and currants were plentifully mixed, was brought in, and it was wonderful how soon
we forgot our warlike fervor after our attention had been drawn to this royal dish.  I, of
course, not being a Mohammedan, had a dish of my own, of a similar composition, strengthened
by platters containing roast chicken, and kabobs, crullers, cakes, sweetbread, fruit, glasses
of sherbet and lemonade, dishes of gum-drops and Muscat sweetmeats, dry raisins, prunes, and
nuts.  Certainly Khamis bin Abdullah proved to me that if he had a warlike soul in him, he
could also attend to the cultivated tastes acquired under the shade of the mangoes on his father's
estates in Zanzibar--the island.

After gorging ourselves on these uncommon dainties some of the chief Arabs escorted me to other
tembes of Tabora.  When we went to visit Mussoud bin Abdullah, he showed me the very ground
where Burton and Speke's house stood--now pulled down and replaced by his office--Sny bin Amer's
house was also torn down, and the fashionable tembe of Unyanyembe, now in vogue, built over
it,--finely-carved rafters--huge carved doors, brass knockers, and lofty airy rooms--a house
built for defence and comfort.

The finest house in Unyanyembe belongs to Amram bin Mussoud, who paid sixty frasilah of ivory--over
$3,000--for it.  Very fair houses can be purchased for from twenty to thirty frasilah of ivory.
Amram's house is called the "Two Seas"--"Baherein." It is one hundred feet in length, and twenty
feet high, with walls four feet thick, neatly plastered over with mud mortar.  The great door
is a marvel of carving-work for Unyanyembe artisans.  Each rafter within is also carved with
fine designs.  Before the front of the house is a young plantation of pomegranate trees, which
flourish here as if they were indigenous to the soil.  A shadoof, such as may be seen on the
Nile, serves to draw water to irrigate the gardens.

Towards evening we walked back to our own finely situated tembe in Kwihara, well satisfied
with what we had seen at Tabora.  My men drove a couple of oxen, and carried three sacks of
native rice--a most superior kind--the day's presents of hospitality from Khamis bin Abdullah.

In Unyanyembe I found the Livingstone caravan, which started off in a fright from Bagamoyo
upon the rumour that the English Consul was coming.  As all the caravans were now halted at
Unyanyembe because of the now approaching war, I suggested to Sayd bin Salim, that it were
better that the men of the Livingstone caravan should live with mine in my tembe, that I might
watch over the white man's goods.  Sayd bin Salim agreed with me, and the men and goods were
at once brought to my tembe.

One day Asmani, who was now chief of Livingstone's caravan, the other having died of small-pox,
two or three days before, brought out a tent to the veranda where, I was sitting writing, and
shewed me a packet of letters, which to my surprise was marked:

"To Dr. Livingstone, " Ujiji, "November 1st, 1870.

" Registered letters."

From November 1st, 1870, to February 10, 1871, just one hundred days, at Bagamoyo!  A miserable
small caravan of thirty-three men halting one hundred days at Bagamoyo, only twenty-five miles
by water from Zanzibar!  Poor Livingstone!  Who knows but he maybe suffering for want of these
very supplies that were detained so long near the sea.  The caravan arrived in Unyanyembe some
time about the middle of May.  About the latter part of May the first disturbances took place.
Had this caravan arrived here in the middle of March, or even the middle of April, they might
have travelled on to Ujiji without trouble.

On the 7th of July, about 2 P.M., I was sitting on the burzani as usual; I felt listless and
languid, and a drowsiness came over me; I did not fall asleep, but the power of my limbs seemed
to fail me.  Yet the brain was busy; all my life seemed passing in review before me; when these
retrospective scenes became serious, I looked serious; when they were sorrowful, I wept hysterically;
when they were joyous, I laughed loudly.  Reminiscences of yet a young life's battles and hard
struggles came surging into the mind in quick succession: events of boyhood, of youth, and
manhood; perils, travels, scenes, joys, and sorrows; loves and hates; friendships and indifferences.
My mind followed the various and rapid transition of my life's passages; it drew the lengthy,
erratic, sinuous lines of travel my footsteps had passed over.  If I had drawn them on the
sandy floor, what enigmatical problems they had been to those around me, and what plain, readable,
intelligent histories they had been to me!

The loveliest feature of all to me was the form of a noble, and true man, who called me son.
Of my life in the great pine forests of Arkansas, and in Missouri, I retained the most vivid
impressions. The dreaming days I passed under the sighing pines on the Ouachita's shores; the
new clearing, the block-house, our faithful black servant, the forest deer, and the exuberant
life I led, were all well remembered.  And I remembered how one day, after we had come to live
near the Mississipi, I floated down, down, hundreds of miles, with a wild fraternity of knurly
giants, the boatmen of the Mississipi, and how a dear old man welcomed me back, as if from
the grave.  I remembered also my travels on foot through sunny Spain, and France, with numberless
adventures in Asia Minor, among Kurdish nomads.  I remembered the battle-fields of America
and the stormy scenes of rampant war.  I remembered gold mines, and broad prairies, Indian
councils, and much experience in the new western lands.  I remembered the shock it gave me
to hear after my return from a barbarous country of the calamity that had overtaken the fond
man whom I called father, and the hot fitful life that followed it.  Stop!  ************

Dear me; is it the 21st of July?  Yes, Shaw informed me that it was the 21st of July after
I recovered from my terrible attack of fever; the true date was the 14th of July, but I was
not aware that I had jumped a week, until I met Dr. Livingstone. We two together examined the
Nautical Almanack, which I brought with me.  We found that the Doctor was three weeks out of
his reckoning, and to my great surprise I was also one week out, or one week ahead of the actual
date.  The mistake was made by my being informed that I had been two weeks sick, and as the
day I recovered my senses was Friday, and Shaw and the people were morally sure that I was
in bed two weeks, I dated it on my Diary the 21st of July.  However, on the tenth day after
the first of my illness, I was in excellent trim again, only, however, to see and attend to
Shaw, who was in turn taken sick.  By the 22nd July Shaw was recovered, then Selim was prostrated,
and groaned in his delirium for four days, but by the 28th we were all recovered, and were
beginning to brighten up at the prospect of a diversion in the shape of a march upon Mirambo's
stronghold.

The morning of the 29th I had fifty men loaded with bales, beads, and wire, for Ujiji.  When
they were mustered for the march outside the tembe, the only man absent was Bombay.  While
men were sent to search for him, others departed to get one more look, and one more embrace
with their black Delilahs.  Bombay was found some time about 2 P.M., his face faithfully depicting
the contending passions under which he was labouring--sorrow at parting from the fleshpots
of Unyanyembe--regret at parting from his Dulcinea of Tabora--to be, bereft of all enjoyment
now, nothing but marches--hard, long marches--to go to the war--to be killed, perhaps,  Oh!
Inspired by such feelings, no wonder Bombay was inclined to be pugnacious when I ordered him
to his place, and I was in a shocking bad temper for having been kept waiting from 8 A.M. to
2 P.M.  for him.  There was simply a word and a savage look, and my cane was flying around
Bombay's shoulders, as if he were to be annihilated.  I fancy that the eager fury of my onslaught
broke his stubbornness more than anything else; for before I had struck him a dozen times he
was crying for "pardon." At that word I ceased belaboring him, for this was the first time
he had ever uttered that word.  Bombay was conquered at last.

"March!" and the guide led off, followed in solemn order by forty-nine of his fellows, every
man carrying a heavy load of African moneys, besides his gun, hatchet, and stock of ammunition,
and his ugali-pot.  We presented quite an imposing sight while thus marching on in silence
and order, with our flags flying, and the red blanket robes of the men streaming behind them
as the furious north-easter blew right on our flank.

The men seemed to feel they were worth seeing, for I noticed that several assumed a more martial
tread as they felt their royal Joho cloth tugging at their necks, as it was swept streaming
behind by the wind.  Maganga, a tall Mnyamwezi, stalked along like a very Goliah about to give
battle alone, to Mirambo and his thousand warriors.  Frisky Khamisi paced on under his load,
imitating a lion and there was the rude jester--the incorrigible Ulimengo-- with a stealthy
pace like a cat.  But their silence could not last long.  Their, vanity was so much gratified,
the red cloaks danced so incessantly before their eyes, that it would have been a wonder if
they could have maintained such serious gravity or discontent one half hour longer.

Ulimengo was the first who broke it.  He had constituted himself the kirangozi or guide, and
was the standard-bearer, bearing the American flag, which the men thought would certainly strike
terror into the hearts of the enemy.  Growing confident first, then valorous, then exultant,
he suddenly faced the army he was leading, and shouted

        "Hoy!  Hoy !
Chorus.--Hoy!  Hoy!

         Where are ye going?
Chorus.--Going to war.

         Against whom?
Chorus.--Against Mirambo.

         Who is your master?
Chorus.--The White Man.

         Ough!  Ough!
Chorus.--Ough!  Ough!

         Hyah!  Hyah!
Chorus.--Hyah.  Hyah!"

This was the ridiculous song they kept up all day without intermission.

We camped the first day at Bomboma's village, situated a mile to the south-west of the natural
hill fortress of Zimbili.  Bombay was quite recovered from his thrashing, and had banished
the sullen thoughts that had aroused my ire, and the men having behaved themselves so well,
a five-gallon pot of pombe was brought to further nourish the valour, which they one and all
thought they possessed.

The second day we arrived at Masangi.  I was visited soon afterwards by Soud, the son of Sayd
bin Majid, who told me the Arabs were waiting for me; that they would not march from Mfuto
until I had arrived.

Eastern Mfuto, after a six hours' march, was reached on the third day from Unyanyembe.  Shaw
gave in, laid down in the road, and declared he was dying.  This news was brought to me about
4 P.M. by one of the last stragglers.  I was bound to despatch men to carry him to me, into
my camp, though every man was well tired after the long march.  A reward stimulated half-a-dozen
to venture into the forest just at dusk to find Shaw, who was supposed to be at least three
hours away from camp.

About two o'clock in the morning my men returned, having carried Shaw on their backs the entire
distance.  I was roused up, and had him conveyed to my tent.  I examined him, and I assured
myself he was not suffering from fever of any kind; and in reply to my inquiries as to how
he felt, he said he could neither walk nor ride, that he felt such extreme weakness and lassitude
that he was incapable of moving further.  After administering a glass of port wine to him in
a bowlful of sago gruel, we both fell asleep.

We arrived early the following morning at Mfuto, the rendezvous of the Arab army.  A halt was
ordered the next day, in order to make ourselves strong by eating the beeves, which we freely
slaughtered.

The personnel of our army was as follows:

Sheikh Sayd bin Salim . .  .  .  .  .   25 half caste

  "    Khamis bin Abdullah .  .  .  .  250 slaves

  "    Thani bin Abdullah .  .  .  .    80   "

  "    Mussoud bin Abdullah .  .  .  .  75   "

  "    Abdullah bin Mussoud .  .  .  .  80   "

  "    Ali bin Sayd bin Nasib .  .  .  250   "

  "    Nasir bin Mussoud .  .  .  .  .  50   "

  "    Hamed Kimiami .  .  .  .  .  .   70   "

  "    Hamdam .  .  .  .  .  .   .  .   30   "

  "    Sayd bin Habib .  .  .  .  .  .  50   "

  "    Salim bin Sayf .  .  .  .  .    100   "

  "    Sunguru .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  25    "

  "    Sarboko .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  25    "

  "    Soud bin Sayd bin Majid .  . .  50    "

  "    Mohammed bin Mussoud .  .  . .  30    "

  "    Sayd bin Hamed .  .  .  .  .  . 90    "

  "    The 'Herald' Expedition .  . .  50 soldiers

  "    Mkasiwa's Wanyamwezi .  .  .   800    "

  "    Half-castes and Wangwana .  .  125    "

  "    Independent chiefs and their
       followers .  .  .  .  .  .  .  300    "

These made a total of 2,255, according to numbers given me by Thani bin Abdullah, and corroborated
by a Baluch in the pay of Sheikh bin Nasib.  Of these men 1,500 were armed with guns-- flint-lock
muskets, German and French double-barrels, some English Enfields, and American Springfields--besides
these muskets, they were mostly armed with spears and long knives for the purpose of decapitating,
and inflicting vengeful gashes in the dead bodies.  Powder and ball were plentiful:  some men
were served a hundred rounds each, my people received each man sixty rounds.

As we filed out of the stronghold of Mfuto, with waving banners denoting the various commanders,
with booming horns, and the roar of fifty bass drums, called gomas--with blessings showered
on us by the mollahs, and happiest predications from the soothsayers, astrologers, and the
diviners of the Koran--who could have foretold that this grand force, before a week passed
over its head, would be hurrying into that same stronghold of Mfuto, with each man's heart
in his mouth from fear?

The date of our leaving Mfuto for battle with Mirambo was the 3rd of August.  All my goods
were stored in Mfuto, ready for the march to Ujiji, should we be victorious over the African
chief, but at least for safety, whatever befel us.

Long before we reached Umanda, I was in my hammock in the paroxysms of a fierce attack of intermittent
fever, which did not leave me until late that night.

At Umanda, six hours from Mfuto, our warriors bedaubed themselves with the medicine which the
wise men had manufactured for them--a compound of matama flour mixed with the juices of a herb
whose virtues were only known to the Waganga of the Wanyamwezi.

At 6 A.M.  on the 4th of August we were once more prepared for the road, but before we were
marched out of the village, the "manneno," or speech, was delivered by the orator of the Wanyamwezi:

"Words! words! words!  Listen, sons of Mkasiwa, children of Unyamwezi! the journey is before
you, the thieves of the forest are waiting; yes, they are thieves, they cut up your caravans,
they steal your ivory, they murder your women.  Behold, the Arabs are with you, El Wali of
the Arab sultan, and the white man are with you.  Go, the son of Mkasiwa is with you; fight;
kill, take slaves, take cloth, take cattle, kill, eat, and fill yourselves! Go!"

"A loud, wild shout followed this bold harangue, the gates of the village were thrown open,
and blue, red, and white-robed soldiers were bounding upward like so many gymnasts; firing
their guns incessantly, in order to encourage themselves with noise, or to strike terror into
the hearts of those who awaited us within the strong enclosure of Zimbizo, Sultan Kolongo's place.

As Zimbizo was distant only five hours from Umanda, at 11 A.M. we came in view of it.  We halted
on the verge of the cultivated area around it and its neighbours within the shadow of the forest.
Strict orders had been given by the several chiefs to their respective commands not to fire,
until they were within shooting distance of the boma.

Khamis bin Abdullah crept through the forest to the west of the village.  The Wanyamwezi took
their position before the main gateway, aided by the forces of Soud the son of Sayd on the
right, and the son of Habib on the left, Abdullah, Mussoud, myself, and others made ready to
attack the eastern gates, which arrangement effectually shut them in, with the exception of
the northern side.

Suddenly, a volley opened on us as we emerged from the forest along the Unyanyembe road, in
the direction they had been anticipating the sight of an enemy, and immediately the attacking
forces began their firing in most splendid style.  There were some ludicrous scenes of men
pretending to fire, then jumping off to one side, then forward, then backward, with the agility
of hopping frogs, but the battle was none the less in earnest.  The breech-loaders of my men
swallowed my metallic cartridges much faster than I liked to see; but happily there was a lull
in the firing, and we were rushing into the village from the west, the south, the north, through
the gates and over the tall palings that surrounded the village, like so many Merry Andrews;
and the poor villagers were flying from the enclosure towards the mountains, through the northern
gate, pursued by the fleetest runners of our force, and pelted in the back by bullets from
breech-loaders and shot-guns.

The village was strongly defended, and not more than twenty dead bodies were found in it, the
strong thick wooden paling having afforded excellent protection against our bullets.

From Zimbizo, after having left a sufficient force within, we sallied out, and in an hour had
cleared the neighbourhood of the enemy, having captured two other villages, which we committed
to the flames, after gutting them of all valuables.  A few tusks of ivory, and about fifty
slaves, besides an abundance of grain, composed the "loot," which fell to the lot of the Arabs.

On the 5th, a detachment of Arabs and slaves, seven hundred strong, scoured the surrounding
country, and carried fire and devastation up to the boma of Wilyankuru.

On the 6th, Soud bin Sayd and about twenty other young Arabs led a force of five hundred men
against Wilyankuru itself, where it was supposed Mirambo was living.  Another party went out
towards the low wooded hills, a short distance north of Zimbizo, near which place they surprised
a youthful forest thief asleep, whose head they stretched backwards, and cut it off as though
he were a goat or a sheep.  Another party sallied out southward, and defeated a party of Mirambo's
"bush-whackers," news of which came to our ears at noon.

In the morning I had gone to Sayd bin Salim's tembe, to represent to him how necessary it was
to burn the long grass in the forest of Zimbizo, lest it might hide any of the enemy; but soon
afterwards I had been struck down with another attack of intermittent fever, and was obliged
to turn in and cover myself with blankets to produce perspiration; but not, however, till I
had ordered Shaw and Bombay not to permit any of my men to leave the camp.  But I was told
soon afterwards by Selim that more than one half had gone to the attack on Wilyankuru with
Soud bin Sayd.

About 6 P.M. the entire camp of Zimbizo was electrified with the news that all the Arabs who
had accompanied Soud bin Sayd had been killed; and that more than one-half of his party had
been slain.  Some of my own men returned, and from them I learned that Uledi, Grant's former
valet, Mabruki Khatalabu (Killer of his father), Mabruki (the Little), Baruti of Useguhha,
and Ferahan had been killed.  I learned also that they had succeeded in capturing Wilyankuru
in a very short time, that Mirambo and his son were there, that as they succeeded in effecting
an entrance, Mirambo had collected his men, and after leaving the village, had formed an ambush
in the grass, on each side of the road, between Wilyankuru and Zimbizo, and that as the attacking
party were returning home laden with over a hundred tusks of ivory, and sixty bales of cloth,
and two or three hundred slaves, Mirambo's men suddenly rose up on each side of them, and stabbed
them with their spears.  The brave Soud had fired his double-barrelled gun and shot two men,
and was in the act of loading again when a spear was launched, which penetrated through and
through him: all the other Arabs shared the same fate. This sudden attack from an enemy they
believed to be conquered so demoralized the party that, dropping their spoil, each man took
to his heels, and after making a wide detour through the woods, returned to Zimbizo to repeat
the dolorous tale.

The effect of this defeat is indescribable.  It was impossible to sleep, from the shrieks of
the women whose husbands had fallen. All night they howled their lamentations, and sometimes
might be heard the groans of the wounded who had contrived to crawl through the grass unperceived
by the enemy.  Fugitives were continually coming in throughout the night, but none of my men
who were reported to be dead, were ever heard of again.

The 7th was a day of distrust, sorrow, and retreat; the Arabs accused one another for urging
war without expending all peaceful means first.  There were stormy councils of war held, wherein
were some who proposed to return at once to Unyanyembe, and keep within their own houses; and
Khamis bin Abdullah raved, like an insulted monarch, against the abject cowardice of his compatriots.
These stormy meetings and propositions to retreat were soon known throughout the camp, and
assisted more than anything else to demoralize completely the combined forces of Wanyamwezi
and slaves.  I sent Bombay to Sayd bin Salim to advise him not to think of retreat, as it would
only be inviting Mirambo to carry the war to Unyanyembe.

After, despatching Bombay with this message, I fell asleep, but about 1.30 P.M. I was awakened
by Selim saying, "Master, get up, they are all running away, and Khamis bin Abdullah is himself
going."

With the aid of Selim I dressed myself, and staggered towards the door.  My first view was
of Thani bin Abdullah being dragged away, who, when he caught sight of me, shouted out "Bana--quick--Mirambo
is coming."  He was then turning to run, and putting on his jacket, with his eyes almost starting
out of their sockets with terror. Khamis bin Abdullah was also about departing, he being the
last Arab to leave.  Two of my men were following him; these Selim was ordered to force back
with a revolver.  Shaw was saddling his donkey with my own saddle, preparatory to giving me
the slip, and leaving me in the lurch to the tender mercies of Mirambo. There were only Bombay,
Mabruki Speke, Chanda who was coolly eating his dinner, Mabruk Unyauyembe, Mtamani, Juma, and
Sarmean---only seven out of fifty.  All the others had deserted, and were by this time far
away, except Uledi (Manwa Sera) and Zaidi, whom Selim brought back at the point of a loaded
revolver. Selim was then told to saddle my donkey, and Bombay to assist Shaw to saddle his
own.  In a few moments we were on the road, the men ever looking back for the coming enemy;
they belabored the donkeys to some purpose, for they went at a hard trot, which caused me intense
pain.  I would gladly have lain down to die, but life was sweet, and I had not yet given up
all hope of being able to preserve it to the full and final accomplishment of my mission. 
My mind was actively at work planning and contriving during the long lonely hours of night,
which we employed to reach Mfuto, whither I found the Arabs had retreated.  In the night Shaw
tumbled off his donkey, and would not rise, though implored to do so.  As I did not despair
myself, so I did not intend that Shaw should despair.  He was lifted on his animal, and a man
was placed on each side of him to assist him; thus we rode through the darkness.  At midnight
we reached Mfuto safely, and were at once admitted into the village, from which we had issued
so valiantly, but to which we were now returned so ignominiously.

I found all my men had arrived here before dark.  Ulimengo, the bold guide who had exulted
in his weapons and in our numbers, and was so sanguine of victory, had performed the eleven
hours' march in six hours; sturdy Chowpereh, whom I regarded as the faithfullest of my people,
had arrived only half an hour later than Ulimengo; and frisky Khamisi, the dandy--the orator--the
rampant demagogue--yes--he had come third; and Speke's "Faithfuls" had proved as cowardly as
any poor "nigger" of them all.  Only Selim was faithful.

I asked Selim, "Why did you not also run away, and leave your master to die?"

"Oh, sir," said the Arab boy, naively, "I was afraid you would whip me."

CHAPTER IX.  MY LIFE AND TROUBLES IN UNYANYEMBE-(continued).

It never occurred to the Arab magnates that I had cause of complaint against them, or that
I had a right to feel aggrieved at their conduct, for the base desertion of an ally, who had,
as a duty to friendship, taken up arms for their sake.  Their "salaams" the next morning after
the retreat, were given as if nothing had transpired to mar the good feeling that had existed
between us.

They were hardly seated, however, before I began to inform them that as the war was only between
them and Mirambo, and that as I was afraid, if they were accustomed to run away after every
little check, that the war might last a much longer time than I could afford to lose; and that
as they had deserted their wounded on the field, and left their sick friends to take care of
themselves, they must not consider me in the light of an ally any more.  "I am satisfied,"
said I, "having seen your mode of fighting, that the war will not be ended in so short a time
as you think it will.  It took you five years, I hear, to conquer and kill Manwa Sera, you
will certainly not conquer Mirambo in less than a year.*  I am a white man, accustomed to wars
after a different style, I know something about fighting, but I never saw people run away from
an encampment like ours at Zimbizo for such slight cause as you had.  By running away, you
have invited Mirambo to follow you to Unyanyembe; you may be sure he will come."

* The same war is still raging, April, 1874.

The Arabs protested one after another that they had not intended to have left me, but the Wanyamwezi
of Mkasiwa had shouted out that the "Musungu" was gone, and the cry had caused a panic among
their people, which it was impossible to allay.

Later that day the Arabs continued their retreat to Tabora; which is twenty-two miles distant
from Mfuto.  I determined to proceed more leisurely, and on the second day after the flight
from Zimbizo, the Expedition, with all the stores and baggage, marched back to Masangi, and
on the third day to Kwihara.

The following extracts from my Diary will serve to show better than anything else, my feelings
and thoughts about this time, after our disgraceful retreat:

Kwihara.  Friday, 11th August, 1871.--Arrived to-day from Zimbili, village of Bomboma's.  I
am quite disappointed and almost disheartened.  But I have one consolation, I have done my
duty by the Arabs, a duty I thought I owed to the kindness they received me with, now, however,
the duty is discharged, and I am free to pursue my own course.  I feel happy, for some reasons,
that the duty has been paid at such a slight sacrifice.  Of course if I had lost my life in
this enterprise, I should have been justly punished.  But apart from my duty to the consideration
with which the Arabs had received me, was the necessity of trying every method of reaching
Livingstone.  This road which the war with Mirambo has closed, is only a month's march from
this place, and, if the road could be opened with my aid, sooner than without it, why should
I refuse my aid?  The attempt has been made for the second time to Ujiji--both have failed.
I am going to try another route; to attempt to go by the north would be folly. Mirambo's mother
and people, and the Wasui, are between me and Ujiji, without including the Watuta, who are
his allies, and robbers.  The southern route seems to be the most practicable one. Very few
people know anything of the country south; those whom I have questioned concerning it speak
of "want of water" and robber Wazavira, as serious obstacles; they also say that the settlements
are few and far between.

But before I can venture to try this new route, I have to employ a new set of men, as those
whom I took to Mfuto consider their engagements at an end, and the fact of five of their number
being killed rather damps their ardor for travelling.  It is useless to hope that Wanyamwezi
can be engaged, because it is against their custom to go with caravans, as carriers, during
war time.  My position is most serious.  I have a good excuse for returning to the coast, but
my conscience will not permit me to do so, after so much money has been expended, and so much
confidence has been placed in me.  In fact, I feel I must die sooner than return.

Saturday, August 12th.--My men, as I supposed they would, have gone; they said that I engaged
them to go, to Ujiji by Mirambo's road.  I have only thirteen left.

With this small body of men, whither can I go?  I have over one hundred loads in the storeroom.
Livingstone's caravan is also here; his goods consist of seventeen bales of cloth, twelve boxes,
and six bags of beads.  His men are luxuriating upon the best the country affords.

If Livingstone is at Ujiji, he is now locked up with small means of escape.  I may consider
myself also locked up at Unyamyembe, and I suppose cannot go to Ujiji until this war with Mirambo
is settled.  Livingstone cannot get his goods, for they are here with mine.  He cannot return
to Zanzibar, and the road to the Nile is blocked up.  He might, if he has men and stores, possibly
reach Baker by travelling northwards, through Urundi, thence through Ruanda, Karagwah, Uganda,
Unyoro, and Ubari to Gondokoro.  Pagazis he cannot obtain, for the sources whence a supply
might be obtained are closed.  It is an erroneous supposition to think that Livingstone, any
more than any other energetic man of his calibre, can travel through Africa without some sort
of an escort, and a durable supply of marketable cloth and beads.

