On the walls of the room where we ate hung beautiful old engravings of Napoleon I in his daily
life at the Château of Compiègne. Napoleon receiving honoured guests in the vast Galerie des
Fêtes, with its polished floor and long line of immense windows; Napoleon and his bride in
the Salon des Dames d'Honneur, among the ladies of Marie Louise; Napoleon listening wistfully--thinking
maybe of lost Joséphine--to a damsel at the harp, in the Salon de Musique; Marie Louise smirking
against a background of teinture chinoise; Napoleon observing a tapestry battle of stags in
the Salle des Cerfs; Napoleon on the magnificent terrasse giving a garden party; Napoleon walking
with his generals along the Avenue des Beaux Monts, in the park. But these pictures rather
teased than pleased us, because in war days only the army enters palace or park.

Brian was luckier than the rest of us! He had been through the château and forgotten nothing.
Best of all he had liked the bedchamber of Marie Antoinette, said to be haunted by her ghost,
in hunting dress with a large hat and drooping plume. The Empress Eugénie, it seemed, had loved
this room, and often entered it alone to dream of the past. Little could she have guessed then
how near she would come to some such end as that fatal queen, second in beauty only to herself.

Even if Julian O'Farrell's significant glance hadn't called my attention to his sister, I should
have noticed how Dierdre lost her sulky look in listening to Brian.

"He has something to say to me about those two when he gets a chance, and he wants me to know
it now," I thought. But I pretended to be absorbed in stories of the Second Empire. For we
sat on and on at the table, putting off our visit to the ancient timbered houses and the monument
of Jeanne d'Arc, and all the other things which called us away from those hotel windows. It
seemed as if the heart of Compiègne, past and present, were hidden just behind that gray façade
of the palace across the square!

Of course, Jeanne was the "star" heroine of Compiègne, where she fought so bravely and was
taken prisoner, and sold to the English by John of Luxembourg at a very cheap price. But, you
know, she is the heroine of such lots of other places we have seen or will see, that we let
her image fade for us behind the brilliant visions of Compiègne's pleasures.

As a rule, old history has the lure of romance in it, and makes modern history seem dull in
contrast. But such a gorgeous novel could be written about Second Empire days of Compiègne
(if only there were a Dumas to write it) that I do think this town is an exception.

Even "The Queen's Necklace" couldn't be more exciting than a story of Eugénie, with that "divinest
beauty of all ages," the Castiglione, as her rival! I don't know how Dumas would begin it,
but I would have the first scene at a house party of Louis Napoleon's, in the palace at Compiègne,
after he had revived the old custom of the Royal Hunt: Napoleon, already falling in love, but
hesitating, anxious to see how the Spanish girl would bear herself among the aristocratic charmers
of the Court, whether she could hold her own as a huntress, as in a ballroom. I'd show her
making a sensation by her horsemanship and beauty. Then I'd take her through the years, till
the dazzling Florentine came to trouble her peace, the adored, yet disappointed divinity who
cried, "If my mother had brought me to France instead of marrying me to Castiglione, an Italian,
not a Spaniard, would have shared the throne with Napoleon, and there would have been no Franco-Prussian
War!"

