"Your feelings, sir," answered he, "are remarkable, but by no means new; for I have myself
been subject to a precisely similar train of emotions, and from a cause similar to yours. The
thing is odd, I allow--what my friend, Coleridge, would call a psychological curiosity--but,
I believe, every human being has at times felt it more or less. The unlucky woman who has proved
such a source of annoyance to you, has been none whatever to me. She is plain-looked, to be
sure, but it did not strike me that there was any thing peculiarly unpleasant in her aspect;
and as for her silence, that, in my eyes, is no discommendation. So much for the different
trains of emotions experienced by different persons from the same cause. There is, in truth,
my dear sir, no accounting for such metaphysical phenomena. We must just take them as we find
them, and be contented to know the effect while we remain in ignorance of the cause. Now, to
show that you do not stand alone in such feelings, I shall, with your permission, relate an
event which lately occurred to myself; on which occasion I was horribly annoyed by a circumstance
in itself perfectly harmless and trivial, and which gave me much more disturbance than the
taciturn lady who has just left us has given to you. My adventure, in truth, was attended with
such extraordinary results, both to myself and another individual, that it possesses many of
the characters of a genuine romance." Having expressed my desire to hear what he had to relate
on such a subject, he proceeded as follows:--

"The circumstance I allude to happened not long ago, while supping at the house of a literary
friend in Edinburgh. On arriving, about nine in the evening, I was ushered into his library,
where I found him, accompanied by two other friends; and in the short interval which elapsed
before supper was announced, we amused ourselves looking at his books, and making comments
upon such of them as struck our fancy. Our host was distinguished for learning; he was a man,
in fact, of uncommon abilities, both natural and acquired; and the two guests who chanced to
be with him were, in this particular, little inferior to himself. Among the other books which
we happened to take up, was Punch and Judy, illustrated by the inimitable pencil of George
Cruikshank. While looking at these capital delineations of the characters in the famous popular
opera of the fairs, no particular emotion, save one of a good deal of pleasure, passed through
my mind. I looked at them as I would do at any other humorous prints; and laying down the volume,
thought no more of it at the time.

"In a few minutes the servant girl made her appearance, to announce that supper was ready;
and laying hold of the landlord's arm, I went along with him down stairs; his two friends,
linked together in the same manner, following close at our heels. On entering the dining-room,
there was certainly a very neat repast spread out. I cannot at this moment condescend upon
all the viands, but I recollect distinctly of boiled lobsters, devilled fowls, and fried codlings,
staring us in the face. There was, however, an individual in the room, and in the act of seating
herself at the head of the table, who struck my fancy more forcibly than even the dishes upon
the table. This, as I afterwards learned, was Miss Snooks, our entertainer's cousin. I was
not exactly prepared to encounter the apparition of a female at our banquet. The landlord was
a confirmed bachelor; and I expected to see nothing but myself, and three other lords of the
creation, for the evening. To tell the truth, (which at the risk of my gallantry must be done,)
I was a little disappointed, for I had come thither expecting to enjoy some private talk with
the male part of the company, and overhaul some bits of scandal not exactly fitted for a lady's
ear. However, there was no help for it. A lady was present, and we had just to make up our
minds to put a bridle upon our tongues, so long as she pleased to honour us with her company.

"I had scarcely crossed the threshold of the room, than Miss Snooks curtsied to me, honoured
me with a smile, and requested me to place myself alongside of her. I did so, and had time
to contemplate her physiognomy. The first thing which struck me was the immense size of her
nose. It stood forward tremendously prominent; and behind it--in the shade--was her face. It
did not glide gently away from the brow above, and from the cheeks at each side. On the contrary,
it jutted out like a promontory, and seemed as bold and defined as Cape Wrath or the Ord of
Caithness. It appeared to have sprung out all at once from her face at the touch of some magician's
wand, in the same way as Minerva sprung from the head of Jupiter. It had a hump on it, too,
like a dromedary; for it was a Roman nose--such as that sported in days of old by Julius Cæsar,
and, in modern times, by the Duke of Wellington--only much more magnificent in its dimensions.
I feel some difficulty in describing the rest of Miss Snooks, so much was I taken up with this
godlike feature. She was tall, thin, wrinkled, fiery-eyed, with a blue silk gown on; and a
cap, stiff-starched, and overgrown with a mountain of frills, and indigo-coloured ribbons.
Her voice was shrill, almost squeaking; and--with reverence be it spoken--she had a leetle
bit of a beard--only a few odd hairs growing from her chin and upper lip. Her age, I suppose,
might be about fifty.

"Now comes the peg 'whereon hangs a tale,' and where my feeling resembled your own. I felt
I was to be miserable for the night--at least so long as Miss Snooks favoured us with her company;
and that she would favour us with it long enough was evident--for I had a presentiment that
she was a blue-stocking, and they always sit late. Her gown was blue, so were her ribbons,
so were her little twinkling eyes, and so was her nose--at least at the point. But there was
no help for it. I made up my mind to the worst, and allowed her to help me to a bit of fowl.
The landlord, and the two other guests supped on fried codlings. She herself fastened upon
a lobster's claw.

"Meanwhile supper proceeded, and the clatter of knives and forks bore testimony that the process
of mastication was going on swimmingly. For some time I enjoyed it as much as the rest of the
company, as I was rather hungry and the fowl excellent; but my enjoyment was of short duration--for
Mr. Hookey, the gentleman who sat opposite to me, on the left hand of Miss Snooks, asked me
a question, and on looking up to answer it I saw--not him, but the lady's nose. I speak advisedly:
there is no exaggeration in the case. If any part of him was visible, it must have been his
body. His face was utterly hid by the tremendous feature which stood between us like an 'envious
shade,' and intercepted all vision in that direction. To get out of the influence of this 'baleful
planet' I shifted my head aside, and so did he, and we thus got a sight of each other over
its peak. From that moment, all idea of eating was gone. The nose stood at first literally
between my friend and me--and now it stood metaphorically between the fowl and my stomach.

"Unfortunately, Mr. Hookey, besides being a great talker, was a native of the same part of
the country as myself, and having been absent from thence several years, was anxious to hear
of any event and change that had taken place since he left it. He accordingly bored me with
questions which I could not but answer. I could not answer them decently without raising my
head--and I could not raise my head without encountering the nose of Miss Snooks.

"But this was not the worst part of the business. Miss Snooks took it into her head to put
questions to me, and thus confronted me still more with her promontory. There was no way of
evading the annoyance, but by getting to the opposite side of the table--a step which it was
impossible to perform with any regard to decency; and I was thus compelled to 'kiss the rod,'
and put the best face I could upon the matter.

"Supper being removed, wine was introduced; and I had the honour of pouring out a glass of
port to Miss Snooks. She thanked me with an inclination of her head--or rather of her nose--and
drank to my health, and to that of the rest of the company. While performing the process of
drinking, I could not help gazing upon her, to see how so very remarkable a person would go
to work. The peak of her nose actually dipped down over the farthest rim of the glass--spanning
it as a rainbow spans the Vale of Glengarry, while the 'limpid ruby' rolled in currents within
the embrace of her delighted lips. The more I gazed upon her, the greater did my surprise at
this extraordinary feature become.

"It is unnecessary to detail at length, the conversation which ensued. It was tolerably connected,
as might be looked for in so small a company, seldom, branching out into miscellaneous details,
and turning chiefly upon literary matters. But I found it impossible to join in it with any
degree of relish. In vain did my opposite neighbour call up before my imagination the scenes
of my birthplace; in vain did our landlord crack his jokes--for he was a great humourist--and
rally me upon my dulness; in vain did he allege that I was in love, and good-naturedly fix
upon two or three girls as the objects of my affections. Worthy man! little did he imagine
that I was in love with his cousin's nose.

"In love, yes! I bore the same love towards it, that the squirrel bears to the rattlesnake--when
it gets fascinated by the burning eyeballs, horrid fangs, and forked tongue of its crawling,
slimy, and execrable foe. Mistake me not, sir, or suppose that I mean to insinuate that Miss
Snooks was a rattlesnake. No; the reasoning is purely analogical; and I only wish it to be
inferred that that nose, humped like a dromedary--prominent as Cape Wrath--nobler than Cæsar's,
or the great captain's--had precisely the same influence on me as the envenomed Python of the
American woods has upon the squirrel. It fascinated me--threw a spell over me--enchanted my
faculties--made me love to gaze upon what I abhorred, and think of nothing but one feature--one
nose, which nevertheless held a more prominent place in the temple of my imagination, than
Atlas, Andes, or Teneriffe, or even the unscalable ridges of Himalaya, where Indra, the god
of the elements, is said to have placed his throne. Having meditated for some time in this
way, I found that it would never do. There was something inexpressibly absurd in the mood which
my mind was getting into, and I resolved to throw off the incubus which oppressed me, and be
like other people. Full of this idea, I filled a bumper, and bolted it off--then another--then
another. I was getting on admirably, and rapidly recovering my equanimity, when chancing to
turn my eyes towards Mr. Hookey, he was nowhere to be seen. He had not gone out; that was impossible;
no--he was concealed from me by the mighty nose.

"This event had nearly capsized me, and brought me back into my old way, when I poured out
another glass of wine, and hastily swallowed it, which in some measure restored the equilibrium
of my faculties. I looked again at Hookey, and saw him distinctly--the shade was gone, for
Miss Snooks had leaned back, in a languishing mood, upon her chair, and taken her nose along
with her. At this moment I fancied I saw her ogling me with both eyes, and resolved to be upon
my guard. I remembered the solemn vows already made to my dear Cecilia; and on this account
determined to stand out against Miss Snooks and her nose.

"But this was only a temporary relief. Again did she lean forward, and again was the nose protruded
between Hookey and myself. It acted as an eclipse--it annihilated him--made him a mere nonentity--rendered
him despicable in my eyes. It was impossible to respect any man who lived in the shade of a
nose, who hid his light under such a bushel. Hang the ninny, he must be a sneaking fellow!

"The wine now began to circulate more freely round the table, and the tongues of the company
to get looser in their heads. Miss Snooks also commenced talking at a greater stretch than
she had hitherto done. I soon found out that she was a poetess, and had written a couple of
novels, besides two or three tragedies. In fact, her whole conversation was about books and
authors, and she did us the favour of reciting some of her own compositions. She was also prodigiously
sentimental, talked much about love, and was fond of romantic scenery. I know not how it was,
but although her conversation was far from indifferent, it excited ridiculous emotions in my
mind, rather than any thing else. If she talked of mountains, I could think of nothing but
the hump upon her nose, which was, in my estimation, a nobler mountain than Helvellyn or Cairngorm.
If she got among promontories, this majestic feature struck me as being sublimer than any I
had ever heard of--not excepting the Cape of Good Hope, first doubled by Vasco de Gama.--When
she conversed about the blue loch and the cerulean sky, I saw in the tip of her nose a complexion
as blue or cerulean as any of these. It was at once a nose--a mountain--a cape--a loch--a sky.
In short it was every thing. She was armed with it, as the Paladins of old with their armour.
Nay, it possessed the miraculous property of rendering a human being invisible, of concealing
Mr. Hookey from my eyes; thus rivalling the ring of Gyges, and casting the invisible coat of
Jack the Giant-killer into the shade.

"After conversing with her for some time upon indifferent matters, she asked me if I was fond
of caricatures, and spoke particularly of the designs of George Cruikshank. Scarcely had she
mentioned the name of this artist, than I was seized with a strange shuddering. In one moment
I called to mind his illustrations of Punch and Judy, at which we had been looking, before
coming down to supper. A clue was now given to the otherwise unaccountable train of feelings,
which had possessed me ever since I saw Miss Snooks. From the moment when I first set my eyes
upon her, I fancied I had seen her before; but where, when, and upon what occasion I found
it impossible to tell. Her squeaking voice, her blue twinkling eyes, her huge frilled cap,
and above all, her mighty nose, all seemed familiar to me. They floated within my spirit as
a half-forgotten dream; and without daring to whisper such a thing to myself, I still felt
the impression that all was not new--that the novelty was not so great as I imagined.

"But Punch and Judy set all to rights. I had seen Miss Snooks in George Cruikshank, and at
once all my perplexing feelings were accounted for. She was Judy--she was Punch's wife. Yes,
Miss Snooks, the old maid, was the wife of Mr. Punch. There was no denying the fact. The same
small weazel eyes, the same sharp voice and hooked chin, and the same nose--at once mountain,
cape, &c. &c. belonged alike to Judy and Miss Snooks. They were two persons; the same, yet,
different--different, yet the same--the one residing in the pages of Cruikshank, or chattering
and fighting in the booths of mountebanks at Donnybrook or St. Bartholomew's Fair--the other
seated bolt upright, at the head of her cousin's table, beside a small coterie of littérateurs.

