May.--The "Capital and Labour" Question reaches an acute stage. The "Unemployed Other People's
Property Rights League" being patted on the back by philanthropists, formulate their programme,
and seize the Stock Exchange and the Mansion House.

June.--The "Capital and Labour" Question reaching a still acuter stage, 20,000 unemployed East
End Lodgers break into the Bank of England, and give a banquet to the LORD MAYOR and Corporation
to celebrate the event, at which Mr. Sheriff AUGUSTUS HARRIS, in returning thanks for the "Arts
and Sciences," says he thinks "the takings" of their hosts must have been "enormous."

July.--Results of Gen. BOOTH's "Darkest England" scheme. Triumphant return of the Submerged
Tenth, who having enjoyed themselves immensely, have come back to the Slums with a view to
having another innings at "the way out."

August.--The Authorities at the Naval Exhibition wishing to stimulate the public taste for
the undertaking, fire one of the hundred-ton guns which, "by some oversight" being loaded,
sends a shell into the City, which brings down the dome of St. Paul's, but, bursting itself,
lays Chelsea in ruins, and causes the appearance of a letter in the Times from Lord GEORGE
HAMILTON, saying that the matter will be "the subject of a searching inquiry" by his Department.

September.--A few Dukes in the Highlands, using several Hotchkiss guns with their guests asked
down to the shooting, exceed the known figures of any previous battue to such an extent that
birds sell in Bond Street at 3d. a brace, with the result that the whole of Scotland is said
to be completely cleared of game for the next seven years.

October.--The great strike of everybody commences. Nothing to be got anywhere. Several Noblemen
and Members of Parliament meet the "food" crisis by organising an Upper-class Co-operative
Society, and bring up their own cattle to London. Being, however, unable to kill them professionally
without the aid of a butcher, they blow them up with gunpowder, and divide them with a steam-scythe,
for which proceedings they are somewhat maliciously prosecuted by the Society for the Prevention
of Cruelty to Animals.

November.--The Strike continuing, and times being very bad, several Peers take advantage of
the 5th of the month, and make a tour of their immediate neighbourhoods in their own arm-chairs,
thereby realising a very handsome sum in halfpence from a not unsympathetic public.

December.--First signs of a probable second edition of a "good old-fashioned Christmas" recognised.
General panic in consequence. Attempt to lynch the Clerk of the Weather at Greenwich, only
frustrated by the appearance of a strong force of Police. 1891 terminates in gloomy despair.

       *       *       *       *       *

EDWIN AND ANGELINA.

(ONE MORE VERSION.)

  DEAR MR. PUNCH,--I beg of you to hear my tale of woe,
  My case is really one of those I'm sure you'd like to know;
  How EDWIN and myself, at last, have quarrelled and have parted,
  And I am left to shed a tear--alone, and broken-hearted.

  We were engaged for eighteen months--he often said that life
  Would not be worth the living, if I would not be his wife.
  My eyes, though brown, were "blue" to him, my hair a "silken tangle,"
  He'd given me his photograph, and such a lovely bangle!

  I had called upon his mother, and had often stayed to tea--
  She said that EDWIN had, indeed, a lucky catch in me.
  I thought him quite a model youth--hard-working, loyal, steady,
  A thrill of pleasure filled me when he wrote, "Your own, own EDDY.",

  Oh! a brighter and a gladder day is surely never known
  Than when EDWIN calls his darling ANGELINA his "own own."
  It warmed me with the glow of love, it cheered me up when lonely,
  Yet I didn't feel so happy, when it came to be, "Yours only."

  The extra syllable indeed did not increase the charm,
  I tried, however, to believe it didn't mean much harm;
  So confident was I that naught our love could hurt or sever,
  But it looked suspicious when next time he only put, "Yours ever."

  He only called me darling once! how different from before!
  Oh, could it be he liked me less (or other maiden more)?
  And was he tired of me--the girl he loved so fondly, dearly?
  It could not be! And then he wrote, "I am, Yours most sincerely."

  Yes--was he going to fling me off as though a worn-out glove?
  You can't do with Sincerity if what you need is Love!
  I could not think such ill of him, although it did look queerly,
  That in his next the "most" was gone, and he was mine "sincerely."

  Yet even then I loved him still, for in the human breast
  Hope springs eternal, so I dared to hope on for the best;
  And, after all, such things as these ought not to weigh unduly,
  But it was more than I could bear to have to read, "Yours truly."

  The truth was clear--I quickly sent him back his lovely cartes,
  His bangle, and his poetry of Cupid and his darts.
  I said to him how grieved I was his love had thus miscarried--
  And then I found out everything; alas! the wretch was married.

  So here am I, as beautiful as anyone I know,
  You couldn't get a better wife, no matter where you go.
  And if you know, dear Mr. Punch, a husband, say you've seen a
  Nice girl, who'd make him happy and whose name is

  ANGELINA.

       *       *       *       *       *

WHY THE DUES WERE THEY DONE AWAY WITH?--Under the beneficent influence of the early coal dews--subsequently
spelt coal dues--which have existed from the earliest times, City and Metropolitan Improvements
have sprung up into existence. Now, thanks to ignorant, but well-meaning County Councillors,
the coal dues being abolished, up goes the price of coal, up go the rates, and there is no
surplus for improvement of any sort. If those ancient days of coal dues were considered "hard
times," then sing we, in chorus, "Hard times, come again once more!"

       *       *       *       *       *

       *       *       *       *       *

"A HAPPY NEW YEAR!"

Mr. Punch, loquitur:--

  A Happy New Year? I should think so, my boy,
    Tossed thus in the arms of your PUNCHY right cheerily,
  'Midst all that a youngster should love and enjoy,
      At least, you're beginning most merrily.
                  Under the Mistletoe Bough
                  You make a good start, anyhow.
    With a kiss from the lips that can never betray,
    There's many a girl would be greeted that way!

  You're welcome, my lad! It is Punch's old style
    To hail with stout heart all such annual new-comers;
  In winters of chill discontent he'll still smile,
      His warmth seems to turn 'em to Summers!
                  Under the Mistletoe Bough
                  All doldrums are bosh and bow-wow.
    He doesn't mix rue in his big New Year Bowl,
    Whose aim is to cheer up the national soul.

  Sursum corda! That motto's the best of the bunch;
    Make it yours, young New Year, and 'twill keep up your pecker.
  Giving way to the Blues, you may take it from Punch,
      Never helped one in heart or exchequer,
                  Under the Mistletoe Bough
                  You cannot do better, I vow,
    Than make that same maxim your boyhood's first rule,
    As your very first tip in your very first school.

  Don't look like a pedagogue, do I, my lad?
    And indeed I am not an Orbilius Plagosus,
  Like him who made juvenile FLACCUS so sad.
      How well the Venusian knows us!
                  Under the Mistletoe Bough
                  He never kissed maid, but somehow
    Our Dickensish Season he seemed to divine
    With his fondness for friendship, and laughter, and wine.

  No, boy, I don't greatly believe in the birch,
    (Though sometimes my bâton must play--on rogues' shoulders.)
  Love's rather too apt to be left in the lurch
      By Orbilian smiters and scolders.
                  Under the Mistletoe Bough
                  A kiss is best treatment, I trow.
    A salute from the lips of your Punch you'll not spurn,
    And the young guests around you shall each take a turn.

  The outlook, my lad, seems a little bit drear,
    There are clouds and storm-shadows about the horizon,
  But--well, you're a chubby and rosy Young Year
      As ever your PUNCHY set eyes on.
                  Under the Mistletoe Bough
                  You look mighty kissable--now.
    So here goes another, for luck like, my dear,
    As we wish everybody A Happy New Year!

       *       *       *       *       *

OLD MORALITY'S CHRISTMAS CARD AND NEW YEAR WISHES.

This communication is designed to convey the expression of the wish that on the 25th of December
and proximate days you, and those not distantly connected with you by family ties, may have
enjoyed a season of Wholesome Hilarity, and that the new period of twelve months, upon which
we are about to enter, may be Suffused with Happiness. (Signed) W.H.S.

Henley-on-Thames, New Year's Eve, 1890.

       *       *       *       *       *

THE PERFECT UNION OF CHURCH AND STATE is exemplified in the title and name of BISHOP KING.

       *       *       *       *       *

       *       *       *       *       *

       *       *       *       *       *

AT THE END OF THE YEAR.

To a Friend,

  Do you remember how we sat,
    We two, in this same room together
  Last year, and talked of this and that,
    And warmed our toes and cursed the weather?

  And dreamed of fame, and puffed a cloud
    (We both smoked briars, I remember),
  And sipped our whiskey hot, and vowed
    To do or die ere next December?

  We spoke without respect of BEN,
    BEN who was ploughed, or very nearly;
  Now BEN bamboozles jurymen,
    And makes his thousand guineas yearly.

  We both despised the wretched JOE,
    My fag at school, your butt at College.
  Dull, elephantine, pompous, slow,
    Choked with absurdly useful knowledge.

  Yet JOE assists to give us laws,
    Speaks in the House, and shows his fat form,
  'Midst empty thunders of applause,
    Erect on many a Tory platform.

  And poor, inconsequential JACK,
    His mind a maze, like Mr. TOOTS's,
  Has married money, keeps a hack,
    And has a big account at COUTTS's.

  TOM owns a house in Belgrave Square,
    And DICK is noted for his dinners--
  Life is a race, but was it fair,
    We asked, that these should be the winners?

  We, too, would win; and Heaven knows
    What vows we uttered fiery-hearted,
  While '89 drew to its close,
    And '90 found us--so we parted.

         *       *       *       *       *

  And here, good lack, while '90 wanes,
    Our candles flaring in their sockets,
  We sit once more and count our gains--
    Wrinkles, grey hairs, and empty pockets.

  Yet, Heaven be thanked that made us friends;
    Men prate of wealth in empty words, I
  Sit here content as '90 ends.
    And sip my grog, and smoke my bird's-eye.

       *       *       *       *       *

OUR ADVERTISERS.

SEASONABLE.

PICK-ME-UP PEPPER is a new irritating and explosive Stimulant.

       *       *       *       *       *

PICK-ME-UP PEPPER is the Universal Restorer.

       *       *       *       *       *

PICK-ME-UP PEPPER sends the sleeping baby instantly flying out of the cradle.

       *       *       *       *       *

PICK-ME-UP PEPPER makes the invalid Grandfather suddenly mount to the fifth storey by leaps
and bounds.

       *       *       *       *       *

PICK-ME-UP PEPPER induces immediate influenza.

       *       *       *       *       *

PICK-ME-UP PEPPER turns head-ache into delirium.

       *       *       *       *       *

PICK-ME-UP PEPPER literally blows up the brain tissues.

