The revulsion of feeling was as complete as he could have desired; and I had not fully expressed
my gratitude when Miss Darry appeared. I went with her to bid Miss Merton good-evening, and
she stood in the moonlight beside me on the step, as Annie Bray had done a few hours before;
but now I also was a changed character.

"I am proud of my pupil, Sandy," she said, with more of her ordinary manner than I had observed
during the evening. "If I can place you in better hands than mine, I shall be willing to give
you up."

"Give me up? never!" I cried, "Why, Miss Darry, this evening has proved to me that I could
not sustain myself in any untried position without some help from you."

She smiled, saying I was ridiculously unconscious of my own ability, and yet looking gratified,
I fancied, at the confession.

(To be continued.)

THE PROGRESS OF THE ELECTRIC TELEGRAPH.

In the spring of 1860 an article was published in this magazine with the above title, giving
an account of the extension of the telegraph up to that time. Its progress since has been very
great in every quarter of the globe. Upon this continent the electric wire extends from the
Gulf of St. Lawrence to the Gulf of Mexico, and from the Atlantic to the Pacific Ocean, connecting
upwards of six thousand cities and villages; while upon the Eastern Continent unbroken telegraphic
communication exists from London to all parts of Europe,--to Tripoli and Algiers, in Africa,--Cairo,
in Egypt,--Teheran, in Persia,--Jerusalem, in Syria,--Bagdad and Nineveh, in Asiatic Turkey,--Bombay,
Calcutta, and other important cities, in India,--Irkoutsk, the capital of Eastern Siberia,--and
to Kiakhta, on the borders of China.

But however rapid the extension of the telegraph has been in the past, it is destined to show
still greater advancement in the future. Neither the American nor the European system has yet
attained to its ultimate development. Transient wars now delay the establishment of lines in
San Juan, Panama, Quito, Lima, Valparaiso, Buenos Ayres, Montevideo, Rio Janeiro, Surinam,
Caraccas, and Mexico, and the incorporating of them, with all their local ramifications, into
one American telegraph system. The Atlantic cable, although its recent attempted submergence
has proved a failure, will yet be successfully laid; while the equally important enterprise
of establishing overland telegraphic communication with Europe viâ the Pacific coast and the
Amoor River is now being vigorously pushed forward towards its successful completion.

The latter project, which is being carried out by the Western Union Extension Telegraph Company,
with a capital of ten million dollars, embraces the construction of a line of telegraph from
New Westminster, British Columbia, the northern terminus of the California State Telegraph
Company, through British Columbia and Russian America to Cape Prince of Wales, and thence across
Behring's Strait to East Cape; or, if found more practicable, from Cape Romanzoff to St. Lawrence
Island, thence to Cape Tchuktchi, and thence by an inland route around the Sea of Okhotsk to
the mouth of the Amoor River. At this point it is to be joined by the line now being constructed
by the Russian Government to connect with Irkoutsk, where a line of telegraph begins, which
stretches through Tomsk and Omsk, in Western Siberia, Katharinburg, on the Asiatic-European
frontier, Perm, Kasan, Nijni-Novogorod, and Moscow, to St. Petersburg.

This line, which was projected by Perry McDonough Collins, Esq., United States Commercial Agent
for the Amoor River, with its extension by the Russian Government to Irkoutsk, is the link
now wanted to supply direct and unbroken telegraphic communication from Cape Race, in Newfoundland,
on the eastern coast of America, across the Western Continent, the Pacific Ocean, and the Eastern
Continent, to Cape Clear, in Ireland, the westernmost projection of Europe; and when a submarine
cable shall be successfully laid between Cape Clear and Cape Race, will complete a telegraphic
circuit around the earth between the parallels of forty-two and sixty-five degrees of north
latitude.

The chief difficulties to be anticipated in Mr. Collins's enterprise are the extent of the
territory to be traversed, its wild and rugged surface formation, and the uncivilized character
of its inhabitants.

The distance to be traversed through British America is six hundred miles; through Russian
America, nineteen hundred miles; the length of the submarine cable across Behring's Strait,
four hundred miles; and the distance from East Cape, by an inland passage around the Sea of
Okhotsk, and through the settlements of Okhotsk, Ayan, and Shanter's Bay, which are well-known
stations of the whale-fishery, to the mouth of the Amoor River, is about twenty-five hundred
miles. The entire length of the line would thus be about five thousand four hundred miles.

That portion of the route which lies through British Columbia is chiefly mountainous, but divided
into three ranges, whose courses are from north to south, while intervening valleys invite
the introduction of telegraphs and roads. The Pacific coast of Russian America is mainly level.
The portion of Siberia which lies between East Cape and the head of the Sea of Okhotsk is,
for a large extent, a steppe or plain, with gentle elevations occasionally rising into mountainous
ridges. At the head of the Sea of Okhotsk a range of mountains must be crossed; and the region
lying between that range and the mouth of the Amoor River is of the same character as that
before mentioned, which extends from the same range northward to East Cape. The electric telegraph
has already been carried over steppes, in both continents, similar to those above described;
and the Pacific telegraph line, in crossing the Sierra Nevada, rises to an elevation greater
than that which is to be surmounted on this line.

Suitable timber for setting up the line can be found on those portions of the route lying within
British Columbia and the Russian dominions on each continent, with the exception of an unwooded
steppe five hundred miles wide on each side of Behring's Strait. Here the needful timber can
be brought near to the line, either by sea or from the forest-covered shores of navigable rivers.

The temperature of the region through which the northern part of the line would pass is very
low; but the winter is less severe than between the same parallels of latitude on the Atlantic
coast. The telegraphic line which connects St. Petersburg with Archangel, on the White Sea,
and that also which passes around the Gulf of Bothnia and connects St. Petersburg with Tornea,
are maintained in operation without difficulty, although they cross as high parallels of latitude
as those which lie in the way of this overland line to Europe. The waters of Behring's Strait
are about one hundred and eighty feet deep, and they are frozen through one half of the year;
but the congealed mass, when broken, generally takes the form of anchor ice, and not that of
iceberg. Thus climate seems to offer no serious obstacle to the enterprise; while it is worthy
of consideration that in high latitudes timber is far less perishable than in low, and less
insulating material is required in cold regions than in more genial climates.

Indian tribes are found along the American part of the route, but they have been so well subjected
to the influences of society and government, through the operations of the fur-trade, that
no serious resistance from them is apprehended. The inhabitants of Asiatic Russia, who dwell
inland, are nomadic Tartars, affecting much independence, but they are, nevertheless, not savages,
like the American natives. After centuries of internal war, they have now settled into a state
of semi-civilization, in which they are accustomed to barter with whalers, with exploring parties,
and with the Government agents of Russia, and they are hospitably inclined by that intercourse.
Thus it is seen that there are no insuperable obstacles, either physical or social, in the
way of this projected line of intercontinental telegraph.

From New Westminster, the capital of British Columbia, situated on Frazer River, about fifteen
miles from its mouth, and the terminus of the California State Telegraph, the line of the Collins
Overland Telegraph has already been commenced. A letter from Mr. F. L. Pope, Assistant-Engineer
of the Overland Company, dated June 13th, 1865, states that the work on this portion of the
line is proceeding with great energy. Scarcely two months had elapsed since active operations
were commenced; and yet during that time nearly three hundred miles of poles had been cut and
prepared for use, a large number had been set, and the remainder had been already distributed
along the line. The poles are nearly all of cedar, and of good size, and will form one of the
most durable lines on the American continent. When the extremely mountainous and difficult
nature of the country along the Frazer River is taken into consideration, the rapidity with
which this large amount of work has been done is extraordinary. It seems quite probable that
the line will be finished the present season from New Westminster to Quesnell River, the terminus
of the wagon-road to the mines.

The Colonial Government are now engaged in cutting a road from New Westminster to Yale, a distance
of about ninety miles, along which the wire will be carried. There has heretofore been no communication
between these points except by water. The river is bordered on both sides by high mountains
and dense forests of heavy timber, with an almost impenetrable undergrowth. Notwithstanding
these difficulties, Mr. Conway, one of the telegraph engineers, made an exploration of the
entire route, during the latter part of last winter, on snow-shoes, being at one time three
days in the woods without food or blankets.

From Yale to the Quesnell River, a distance of some three hundred miles, the line will follow
the wagon-road, which has been built at an enormous expense by the Colonial Government, as
a means of communication with the gold-mining regions of Carriboo. It will be a matter of considerable
difficulty to set up a line of telegraph over that portion of this road which passes through
the great canon, as in many places the road has a perpendicular wall of rock upon one side
and a perpendicular precipice on the other, and in one place is carried around the face of
a cliff in this manner, at an elevation of some two thousand feet, directly over the river,
being in some places blasted out of the solid rock, and in others supported by a sort of staging.

Two exploring parties have been dispatched from San Francisco: one to examine the route through
Eastern Siberia, between Behring's Strait and the Amoor; and the other to follow the proposed
route up the Frazer River in British Columbia, and thence along the valley supposed to exist
between the Rocky Mountains and the Coast Range, to the head-waters of Pelly River, following
down the valley of this river and the Yerkin, into which it empties, to a point near the mouth
of the latter, or in the neighborhood of Behring's Strait.

The Pacific Telegraph Line, which will form an important link in the overland line to Europe,
was projected in 1859, when the measure was first brought to the attention of Congress. A bill
in aid of the project was passed after some opposition, and proposals for the construction
of the line were invited by Secretary Cobb. Mr. Hiram Sibley, President of the Western Union
Telegraph Company, who was really the originator of the whole enterprise, submitted to the
directors of the Company the question of authorizing him to send in proposals; but so formidable
did the undertaking appear, that the proposition was carried only by a single vote.

After long and tedious delays on the part of Secretary Cobb, the contract for building the
line was awarded, on the 20th of September, 1860, to Mr. Sibley, on behalf of the Western Union
Telegraph Company. The Company at once assumed the contract, and furnished all the money required
for the line east of Salt Lake.

Mr. J. H. Wade, of Cleveland, one of the officers of the Company, now visited California to
confer with parties familiar with the various routes, to determine where and how to build the
line, and to arrange with the telegraph companies in the Pacific States to extend their lines
eastward and form a business connection. The California Company agreed to assume the construction
of the line to Salt Lake City, and, if possible, to have it completed to that point as soon
as the line from the eastward reached there. The route selected was viâ Forts Kearney, Laramie,
and Bridger, crossing the Rocky Mountains at the South Pass, and thence to Salt Lake City;
and from this point, viâ Forts Crittenden and Churchill, across the Sierra Nevada Mountains
to Placerville and San Francisco. Mr. Edward Creighton, who had already surveyed the proposed
route, and was convinced of the feasibility of maintaining a line over it, was appointed superintendent
of construction.

The Company was organized April 17th, 1862, after which time nearly all the wire, insulators,
and other material had to be manufactured before the construction of the line could be proceeded
with. The reader can judge of the extent of the preparations required for setting up two thousand
miles of telegraph through a wilderness inhabited only by Indians and wild beasts, and a part
of which was a desert. The materials and tools were taken to Omaha, Kansas, at which point
everything necessary for the enterprise was gathered in readiness to start westward.

Of the force employed on the Pacific side we have no knowledge; but for the line from Omaha
to Salt Lake City, Mr. Creighton had four hundred men, fitted out for a hard campaign, with
a rifle and navy-revolver for each man, and with the necessary provisions, including one hundred
head of cattle for beef, to be driven with the train and killed as needed. For the transportation
of the material and the supplies for this army of workmen, five hundred oxen and mules and
over one hundred wagons were purchased by the Company; and these not proving sufficient, other
transportation was hired, making the total number of beasts of burden seven hundred oxen and
one hundred pair of mules.

The first pole was set up on the 4th of July, 1862, and the line was completed to Salt Lake
on the 18th of October following,--the California party reaching the same point six days later.
The work proceeded at the rate of about ten miles per day.

The whole line is upon poles,--it being thought best to cross the rivers in this manner rather
than by means of submarine cables. The country is for the most part bare of wood; the longest
distance, however, that timber had to be drawn in one stretch was two hundred and forty miles.
The poles are of large size, and stand eighty to the mile, more than half of red cedar, the
remainder mostly pine. On the highest mountains, where the snow accumulates to a great depth
during the winter, they are of extra size, and sufficiently tall to keep the wires above the
deepest snow; they are also placed close enough together to prevent the wire being broken by
an accumulation of snow and sleet.

The wire used in this line is No. 9 iron, zinc-coated, weighing three hundred and fifty pounds
to the mile, and the total weight used between Omaha and San Francisco amounts to seven hundred
thousand pounds. The insulators are of glass, protected by a wooden shield, of the pattern
known as the Wade insulator.

The line is worked by Morse instruments, usually direct from Chicago to Salt Lake, Hicks's
self-acting repeaters being kept in the circuit at Omaha and Fort Laramie. At Salt Lake the
messages are rewritten, and thence sent direct to San Francisco. The stations average about
one for each fifty miles, and the whole length of the line is inspected twice a week by persons
employed for the purpose. The cost of construction was about two hundred and fifty dollars
per mile.

No trouble was experienced from Indian depredations until the last winter. Up to that time
the line had worked almost uninterruptedly. Even during the Indian difficulties of the previous
summer and autumn, which compelled the suspension of the overland mail, the telegraph was not
in any manner molested by the savages. This was supposed to be owing in a great measure to
the influence of superstitious fear among them in regard to the wire, which they supposed to
be under the especial care of the Great Spirit; but it was probably largely due also to the
many kind offices done them by the telegraph-operators, who frequently ascertained where the
buffalo were in force, and informed their red-skinned neighbors, who were thus enabled to find
their favorite game. The charm is now, however, unfortunately, dispelled; and the savages take
every opportunity to break and carry off the wire and destroy the poles. Government is dispatching
a large force of cavalry to punish the marauders and protect the line, which it is to be hoped
may prove effectual.

       *       *       *       *       *

It has already been mentioned that the Russian Government has undertaken to extend the main
eastern and western line from Irkoutsk to the mouth of the Amoor River. This extension is now
rapidly progressing. But this is only a single and not very prominent part of the work which
the Emperor of Russia has begun. His design embraces nothing less than the following stupendous
works, namely:--

A line, with the necessary submarine cables, from the mouth of the Amoor River, across the
Straits of Tartary, over the island of Sakhalien, across the Straits of La Pérouse, over the
Island of Jesso, through Hakodadi, and across the Straits of Sangar, to Jeddo, the capital
of Japan.

A line from the confluence of the Usuri with the Amoor, seven hundred miles above the mouth
of the latter, thence southward, on the bank of the Usuri, to Lake Kingka, and thence to the
port of Vladi Vastok, on the coast of Tartary, opposite the port of Hakodadi, on the eastern
coast of the Japanese Sea. Vladi Vastok is selected by the Emperor for his naval station on
the Pacific coast.

A line from Irkoutsk, the capital of Eastern Siberia, through Kiakhta, now the entrepôt of
European and Chinese overland commerce, through the vast territory of the Mongols, to the gate
in the Chinese wall at Yahol, and thence to Pekin, the capital of the Chinese Empire.[E]

A line from a station on the main continental line at Omsk, near the southern boundary of Asiatic
Russia, passing through Mongolia, and entering China at Hirck, sometimes called Illy, thence
crossing Turkistan, Bokhara, and Balk, to Cabool, in Afghanistan, thence to capital places
in the Punjaub, where it will meet the telegraphic system of India, and thus become a medium
of communication between London and the colonial dependencies of Great Britain, Holland, Spain,
and Portugal, on the shores and islands of the great Indian Ocean.

