In Miss ELEANOR MORDAUNT'S new volume called The Island (HEINEMANN) all the tales have a common
interest through their association with a corner of Empire easily recognisable by those who
have ever seen it. I remember how greatly I have already admired Miss MORDAUNT'S power of vivid
and picturesque scene-painting; there are several stories in this book that show it at its
best. I wish I could avoid adding that there are others that seem to me entirely unworthy of
their author, at least for any other purpose than that of boiling the pot. One of the best
of the tales, "A Reversion," is both dramatic and realistic; it bears a strong resemblance
to a sketch that recently made a successful appearance at the Hippodrome; indeed the good qualities
of Miss MORDAUNT'S stories are precisely those that would help their development into excellent
little plays. One thing that I cannot help wishing is that the writer had trusted a little
more to my imaginative intelligence. There is a certain kind of detail that is best confided
to this sanctuary, and Miss MORDAUNT'S difficulty seems to have been in realising when all
the sayable things had been said. At least one of the stories plunges considerably beyond the
limit of discretion and even good taste. But the heat and the colour, the thrills and the devastating
ennui of life for the English in the island, are as well rendered as anything I remember in
the fiction of Empire. For this alone there should be a warm welcome for the collection, with
all its faults, both from those who know the original and those who need help in imagining it.

       *     *     *     *     *

The Purple Frogs (HEATH, CRANTON AND OUSELEY) I can only describe as the most exasperating,
not to say maddening, product of modern fiction. What on earth Messrs. H. W. WESTBROOK and
LAWRENCE GROSSMITH, the joint authors, mean by it I have not the ghost of an idea. Occasionally
signs are detectable that the whole thing is a practical joke; still more occasionally it even
promises to become mildly amusing; and then again one is confronted with an incident (such
as the visit of the armed maniac to the house of Isambard Flanders) serious to the point of
melodrama. Not for pages and chapters did I discover any excuse for the title; and even then
not much. But it appeared eventually that Isambard Flanders was jealous of the friendship between
his wife, Cicely, and Stephen, a young man who produced film-dramas; and that in order to score
off them he wrote a novel called The Purple Frogs, in which he embodied his suspicions. The
last half of the volume is occupied with this tale within a tale. Here possibly we have a key
to the purpose of the collaboration. Anyhow, I permitted myself to form a theory that Mr. WESTBROOK
(or Mr. GROSSMITH) had written a novel too exiguous for separate publication, and in this dilemma
had appealed to Mr. GROSSMITH (or Mr. WESTBROOK) to provide a setting. But which wrote which,
and why--these are problems that remain inscrutable. Yet another is furnished by the fact that
Miss ELLA KING HALL has composed for the main story six "illustrations in music," duly reproduced.
You may with luck be able to smile a little at the quaintness of these. But on the title-page
they are said to be "arranged from the MS. notes of Botolf Glenfield." And Glenfield, being
only a character in the novel written by Flanders, couldn't possibly ... Help!

       *     *     *     *     *

       *     *     *     *     *

SERENITY.

  A singular accident happened to-day,
    Distressing to witness (I chanced to be there).
  A motor-'bus entered a tea-shop, and lay
        In some need of repair.

  It was loaded with passengers, outside and in,
    Who straightway indulged in much turbulent talk;
  The latter declared that for less than a pin
        They would get out and walk.

