No picture of the planter, however, is "able to be free from the warm, underlying color, the
object upon which his progress rested advantageously"--slavery. The attractive life of the
planter was made possible by the fact that he had hundreds of slaves to perform the manual
labor. The power of the master over the slave was very similar to that of a master over an
indentured apprentice in Europe. Both the apprentice and the slave were bound for a term of
years, the slave being bound for life. In both cases the master regulated and controlled the
person and had absolute enjoyment of his labor. The prominent difference in their power was
that the master of a slave could sell him to another, and had the right to sell his child born
during slavery, while the master of an indentured apprentice could not so treat him. In both
cases the master was an absolute despot.[9]

Since the master, although making the rules of the plantation, was frequently absent, and since
the enforcement of the rules and the severity of the labor depended upon the overseer, it is
helpful to know the general character of this important power in order to understand the labor
of the slaves. He was usually ignorant, high-tempered, and brutal. Patrick Henry has described
him as a most "abject, degraded, and unprincipled man." Such men usually worked the Negroes
to the limit, having a Negro driver go with each gang of slaves in order to secure the utmost
labor. In the light of these facts, it is easy to understand how the slaves might be mistreated,
in spite of the benevolent intentions of the master. Yet the overseers were not wholly blamable
for their cruelty, inasmuch as they were assured of work only as long as they pleased the master,
who judged them by the good behavior of the slaves, the general condition of the plantation,
and the size and quality of the crop. Calhoun has truthfully said that by displaying too great
an interest in the size of the crop, the master unconsciously encouraged cruelty by the overseer.

As to the general severity of the work, writers differ. Rhodes, in his history of the United
States, says that the slaves presented a picture of sadness and fear, and that they toiled
from morning until night, working on an average of fifteen hours a day, while during the picking
season on the cotton plantations they worked sixteen hours and during the grinding season on
the sugar plantations they labored eighteen hours daily. On the other hand, Murat, in his history
of the United States, says that the work of the slaves was less strenuous than that of the
free workers of the North, that they worked from sunrise till three o'clock in the afternoon,
resting two hours at noon and receiving Sunday as a holiday and a half holiday on Saturday,
and that they received many privileges, such as farming a small piece of land for themselves
and selling its products. According to him, the slaves were supremely happy and contented.
Which of these views is correct, it is difficult to say, for it is doubtless true that some
slaves were driven to the extreme, while others enjoyed a comparatively easy life. When it
is remembered, however, that, since the Constitution forbade the importation of slaves after
1808, the price of slaves had steadily risen, it is safe to conclude that the work was no more
severe to the slaves than was agricultural life to the whites in the North, for it was advantageous
to the owner to keep the slave in good health as long as possible, and this was not to be accomplished
by overworking him.

The family life of the Negro was regulated by the planter, who, in return for the service of
the slave, provided him with food, clothing, shelter, and all the necessities of life. This
part of slave life is very sad. "A slave, his wife, and their children, around that charmed
centre, a family table, with its influence of love, instruction, discipline, humble as they
necessarily would be, yet such as God has given them, are too seldom seen."[10] Negroes were
married only that slaves might be bred for the master to sell. The Negro families ranged from
fifteen to twenty-five children. A certain man in Virginia said that he was fortunate "because
his women were uncommonly good breeders; he did not suppose there was a lot of women anywhere
that bred faster than his; he never heard of babies coming faster than they did on his plantation;
and every one of them, in his estimation, was worth two hundred dollars, as Negroes were selling
then, the moment they drew breath."[11] Many people purchased Negro women because they were
good breeders, making large fortunes by selling their children. This compulsory breeding naturally
crushed the maternal instincts in Negro women. One month after the birth of a child, it was
taken to a nursery and cared for by a servant until it was sold, while the mother worked in
the field. Thus she neither fed, clothed, nor controlled her child, and consequently the usual
love between mother and child was absent. This is well illustrated in the case of a certain
slave mother, who, when dying, was asked how she felt about leaving her children and who replied:
"O missis, you will take care of them; I don't mind them." It has been truthfully said that
the most appalling feature of slavery was the lack of family life suffered by the Negro.

The Negroes lived in huts near the large house, which were usually log cabins with board floors
and good chimneys and which were generally comfortable, but which, because of filth and indolence,
presented a foul and wretched appearance. Indeed, the appearance of the slave himself was unfavorable.
Olmsted describes him as "clumsy, awkward, gross, elephantine in all his expressions and demeanor."
The clothing of the slave was of every variety, from the "smart mulatto lady's maid, who wore
the still fresh dress that had been her mistress's, down to the pickaninny of three, five,
or eight years of age, who went as nature made him."[12] The little Negroes usually wore only
a shirt that reached to their knees, while the grown ones received two pairs of shoes, a new
suit of clothes, and a hat each year.[13] Their food, as well as their clothes, varied according
to the master, generally consisting of cornmeal, bacon, and molasses, while on some plantations
they were allowed wheat flour, seasonal vegetables, and even chicken.[14] It is reasonable
to judge that the living of the slaves was not very high, for it was to the interest of the
master to bring the food and clothing of the slaves down to the lowest cost.

The education of the slaves was very displeasing to the planter. North Carolina, South Carolina,
Georgia, Alabama, and Louisiana passed laws forbidding slaves being taught to read or write,
although North Carolina slaves could be taught arithmetic. It was said that if they were educated
they would read abolition papers and would be discontented. On the other hand, some of the
planters contended that they should be taught to read in order that they might understand the
Bible. The majority of Negroes, however, were illiterate. As to their religious education,
there was much consideration. Southern people were very pious and orthodox in their faith and
usually baptized their slaves, taught them the catechism, and then had them confirmed. Their
favorite text, however, was "Servants obey in all things your masters." One can not blame the
planter for his attitude towards the education of the slave; for, after all, his chief aim
was to obtain the utmost work from him, and what educated man free to read and think for himself
would really be willing to work as a slave for another?

