Suppose now that the extra stimulus has been found which arouses a satisfactory substitute
response. The original stimulus, or the reaction-tendency aroused by it, still continuing,
participates in arousing the substitute response, playing the part of the originally ineffective
stimulus in the conditioned reflex. Thus the original stimulus becomes strongly linked with
the substitute response.

The process of reaching a substitute response thus includes three stages: (a) original response
found unsatisfactory, (b) new stimulus found which gives a satisfactory substitute response,
(c) attachment of the substitute response to the original stimulus.

{409}

There are two main cases under the general head of substitute response. In one case, the substitute
response is essentially an old response, not acquired during the process of substitution, but
simply substituted, as indicated just above, for the original response to the situation. This
represents the common trial and error learning of animals. The second case is that where the
substitute response has to be built up by combination of old responses into a higher unit.

C. Substitute Response, but not in Itself a New Response

I. Trial and error.

Our much-discussed instance of the cat in the cage need not be described again, but may simply
be illustrated by a diagram.

{410}

2. Learning to balance on a bicycle.

When the beginner feels the bicycle tipping to the left, he naturally responds by leaning to
the right, and even by turning the wheel to the right. Result unsatisfactory--strained position
and further tipping to the left. As the bicyclist is about to fall, he saves himself by a response
which he has previously learned in balancing on his feet; he extends his foot to the left,
which amounts to a response to the ground on the left as a good base of support. Now let him
sometime respond to the ground on his left by turning his wheel that way, and, to his surprise
and gratification, he finds the tipping overcome, and his balance well maintained. The response
of turning to the left, originally made to the ground on the left (but in part to the tipping),
becomes so linked with the tipping as to be the prompt reaction whenever tipping is felt. The
diagram of this process would be the same as for the preceding instance.

D. Substitute Response, the Response Being a Higher Motor Unit

1. The brake and clutch combination in driving an automobile.

This may serve as an instance of simultaneous coördination, since the two movements which are
combined into a higher unit are executed simultaneously. The beginner in driving an automobile
often has considerable trouble in learning to release the "clutch", which, operated by the
left foot, ungears the car from the engine, and so permits the car to be stopped without stopping
the engine. The foot brake, operated by the right foot, is comparatively easy to master, because
the necessity for stopping the car is a perfectly clear and definite stimulus. Now, when the
beginner gets a brake-stimulus, he responds promptly with his right foot, but neglects to employ
his left foot on the clutch, because he has no effective clutch-stimulus; there is nothing
{411} in the situation that reminds him of the clutch. Result, engine stalled, ridicule for
the driver. Next time, perhaps, he thinks "clutch" when he gets the brake-stimulus, and this
thought, being itself a clutch-stimulus, arouses the clutch-response simultaneously with the
brake-response. After doing this a number of times, the driver no longer needs the thought
of the clutch as a stimulus, for the left foot movement on the clutch has become effectively
linked with the brake-stimulus, so that any occasion that arouses the brake-response simultaneously
arouses the clutch response.

The combination of two responses is effected by linking both to the same stimulus; thus the
two become united into a coördinated higher motor unit.

2. The word-habit in typewriting furnishes an example of successive coördination, the uniting
of a sequence of movements into a higher unit. [Footnote: See p. 324.] The beginner has to
spell out {412} the word he is writing, and make a separate response to each letter; but when
he has well mastered the letter-habits, and, still unsatisfied, is trying for more speed, it
happens that he thinks ahead while writing the first letter of a word, and prepares for the
second letter. In effect, he commences reacting to the second letter while still writing the
first. This goes further, till he anticipates the series of letters forming a short word while
still at the beginning of the word. The letter movements are thus linked to the thought of
the word as a whole, and the word becomes an effective stimulus for arousing the series of
letter movements.

Many other instances of learning can be worked out in the same way, and there seems to be no
difficulty in {413} interpreting any of them by the law of combination. Even "negative adaptation"
can possibly be interpreted as an instance of substitute response; some slight and easy response
may be substituted for the avoiding reaction or the attentive reaction that an unimportant
stimulus at first arouses, these reactions being rather a nuisance when they are unnecessary.
On the whole, the law of combination seems to fill the bill very well. It explains what the
law of exercise left unexplained. It always brings in the law of exercise as an ally, and,
in explaining substitute response, it brings in the law of effect, which however, as we saw
before, may be a sub-law under the law of exercise. These two, or three laws, taken together,
give an adequate analysis of the whole process of learning.

The Law of Combination in Recall

Unitary response to multiple stimuli is important in recall as well as in learning. The clearest
case of this is afforded by "controlled association". [Footnote: See p. 381.]

In an opposites test, the response to the stimulus word "long" is aroused partly by this stimulus
word, and partly by the "mental set" for opposites. There are two lines of influence, converging
upon the response, "long--short" (of which only the word "short" may be spoken): one line from
the stimulus word "long", and the other from the mental set for pairs of opposite words. The
mental set for opposites tends to arouse any pair of opposites; the word "long" tends to arouse
any previously observed group of words of which "long" is a part. The mental set, an internal
stimulus, and the stimulus word coming from outside, converge or combine to arouse one particular
response.

The mental set for adding has previously exercised {414} linkages with the responses composing
the addition table, while the mental set for multiplication has linkages with the responses
composing the multiplication table. When the set for adding is active, a pair of numbers, seen
or heard, together with this internal stimulus of the mental set, arouses the response that
gives the sum; but when the multiplying set is active, the same pair of numbers gives the product
as the response. All thinking towards any goal is a similar instance of the law of combination.

The Laws of Learning in Terms of the Neurone

We have good evidence that the brain is concerned in learning and retention. Loss of some of
the cortex through injury often brings loss of learned reactions, and the kind of reactions
lost differs with the part of the cortex affected. Injury in the occipital lobe brings loss
of visual knowledge, and injury in the neighborhood of the auditory sense-center brings loss
of auditory knowledge.

Injury to the retina or optic nerve, occurring early in life, results in an under-development
of the cortex in the occipital lobe. The nerve cells remain small and their dendrites few and
meager, because they have not received their normal amount of exercise through stimulation
from the eye.

Exercise, then, has the same general effect on neurones that it has on muscles; it causes them
to grow and it probably also improves their internal condition so that they act more readily
and more strongly. The growth, in the cortex, of dendrites and of the end-brushes of axons
that interlace with the dendrites, must improve the synapses between one neurone and another,
and thus make better conduction paths between one part of the cortex and another, and also
between the cortex and the lower sensory and motor centers.

The law of exercise has thus a very definite meaning when {415} translated into neural terms.
It means that the synapses between stimulus and response are so improved, when traversed by
nerve currents in the making of a reaction, that nerve currents can get across them more easily
the next time.

The more a synapse is used, the better synapse it becomes, and the better linkage it provides
between some stimulus and some response. The cortex is the place where linkages are made in
the process of learning, and it is there also that forgetting, or atrophy, takes place through
disuse. Exercise makes a synapse closer, disuse lets it relapse into a loose and poorly conducting
state.

The law of combination, also, is readily translated into {416} neural terms. The "pre-existing
loose linkages" which it assumed to exist undoubtedly do exist in the form of "association
fibers" extending in vast numbers from any one part of the cortex to many other parts. These
fibers are provided by native constitution, but probably terminate rather loosely in the cortex
until exercise has developed them. They may be compared to telephone wires laid down in the
cables through the streets and extending into the houses, but still requiring a little fine
work to attach them properly to the telephone instruments.

The diagrams illustrating different cases under the law of combination can easily be perfected
into neural diagrams, though, to be sure, any diagram is ultra-simple as compared with the
great number of neurones that take part in even a simple reaction.

The reader will be curious to know now much of this neural interpretation of our psychological
laws is observed fact, and how much speculation. Well, we cannot as yet {417} observe the brain
mechanism in actual operation--not in any detail. We have good evidence, as already outlined,
for growth of the neurones and their branches through exercise.

We have perfectly good evidence of the law of "unitary response to multiple stimuli" from the
physiological study of reflex action; and we have perfectly good anatomical evidence of the
convergence and divergence of neural paths of connection, as required by the law of combination.
The association fibers extending from one part to another of the cortex are an anatomical fact.
[Footnote: See p. 56.] Facilitation is a fact, and that means that a stimulus which could not
of itself arouse a response can coöperate with another stimulus that has a direct connection
with that response, and reinforce its effect. In short, all the elements required for a neural
law of combination are known facts, and the only matter of doubt is whether we have built these
elements together aright in our interpretation. It is not pure speculation, by any means.

{418}

EXERCISES

1. Outline the chapter, in the form of a list of laws and sub-laws.

2. Review the instances of learning cited in Chapters XIII-XV,
   and examine whether they are covered and sufficiently accounted for
   by the general laws given in the present chapter.

3. Draw diagrams, like those given in this chapter, for the simpler
   cases, at least, that you have considered in question 2.

4. Show that response by analogy is important in the development
   of language. Consider metaphor, for example, and slang, and the
   using of an old word in a new sense (as in the case of
   'rail-road').

REFERENCES

William James devoted much thought to the problem of the mechanism of learning, habit, association,
etc., and his conclusions are set forth in several passages in his Principles of Psychology,
1890, Vol. I, pp. 104-112, 554-594, and Vol. II, pp. 578-592.

Another serious consideration of the matter is given by William McDougall in his Physiological
Psychology, 1905, Chapters VII and VIII.

See also Thorndike's Educational Psychology, Briefer Course, 1914, Chapter VI.

On the whole subject of association, see Howard C. Warren, A History of the Association Psychology,
1921.

{419}

CHAPTER XVII

PERCEPTION

MENTAL LIFE CONSISTS LARGELY IN THE DISCOVERY OF FACTS NEW TO THE INDIVIDUAL, AND IN THE RE-DISCOVERY
OF FACTS PREVIOUSLY OBSERVED

You will remember the case of John Doe, who was brought before us for judgment on his behavior,
as to how far it was native and how far acquired. We have since that time been occupied in
hearing evidence on the case, and after mature consideration have reached a decision which
we may formulate as follows: that this man's behavior is primarily instinctive or native, but
that new attachments of stimulus and response, and new combinations of responses, acquired
in the process of learning, have furnished him with such an assortment of habits and skilled
acts of all sorts that we can scarcely identify any longer the native reactions out of which
his whole behavior is built. That decision being reached, we are still not ready to turn the
prisoner loose, but wish to keep him under observation for a while longer, in order to see
what use he makes of this vast stock of native and acquired reactions. We wish to know how
an individual, so equipped, behaves from day to day, and meets the exigencies of life. Such,
in brief, is the task we have still before us.

Accordingly, one fine morning we enter our prisoner's sleeping quarters, and find him, for
once, making no use of his acquired reactions, as far as we can see, and utilizing but a small
fraction of his native reactions. He is, in short, asleep. We ring a bell, and he stirs uneasily.
We {420} ring again, and he opens his eyes sleepily upon the bell, then spies us and sits bolt
upright in bed. "Well, what . . ." He throws into action a part of his rather colorful vocabulary.
He evidently sees our intrusion in an unfavorable light at first, but soon relaxes a little
and "supposes he must be late for breakfast". Seeing our stenographer taking down his remarks,
he is puzzled for a moment, then breaks into a loud laugh, and cries out, "Oh! This is some
more psychology. Well, go as far as you like. It must have been your bell I heard in my dream
just now, when I thought I saw a lot of cannibals beating the tom-tom". Having now obtained
sufficient data for quite a lengthy discussion, we retire to our staff room and deliberate
upon these manifestations.

"The man perceives", we agree. "By the use of his eyes and ears he discovered facts, and interpreted
them in the light of his previous experience. In knowing the facts, he also got adjusted to
them and governed his actions by them. But notice--a curious thing--how his perception of the
facts progressed by stages from the vague and erroneous to the correct and precise. Before
he was fully awake, he mistook the bell for a tom-tom; then, more fully aroused, he knew the
bell. Ourselves he first saw as mere wanton intruders, then as cheerful friends who wished
him no ill; finally he saw us in our true character as investigators of his behavior."

Following our man through the day's work and recreation, we find a large share of his mental
activity to consist in the perception of facts. We find that he makes use of the facts, adjusting
himself to them and also shaping them to suit himself. His actions are governed by the facts
perceived, at the same time that they are governed by his own desires. Ascertaining how the
facts stand, he takes a hand and manipulates them. He is constantly coming to know {421} fresh
facts, and constantly doing something new with them. His life is a voyage of discovery, and
at the same time a career of invention.

Discovery and invention!--high-sounding words, still they are applicable to everyday life.
The facts observed may not be absolutely new, but at least they have always to be verified
afresh, since action needs always to take account of present reality. The invention may be
very limited in scope, but seldom does an hour pass that does not call for doing something
a little out of the ordinary, so as to escape from a fresh trap or pluck fruit from a newly
discovered bough. All of our remaining chapters might, with a little forcing, be pigeonholed
under these two great heads. Discovery takes its start with the child's instinctive exploratory
activity, and invention with his manipulation, and these two tendencies, perhaps at bottom
one, remain closely interlinked throughout.

Some Definitions

Perception is the culmination of the process of discovery. Discovery usually requires exploration,
a search for facts; and it requires attention, which amounts to finding the facts or getting
them effectively presented; and perception then consists in knowing the presented facts.

When the facts are presented to the senses, we speak of "sense perception". If they are presented
to the eye, we speak of visual perception; if to the ear, of auditory perception, etc. But
when we speak of a fact as being "presented" to the eye or ear, we do not necessarily mean
that it is directly and completely presented; it may only be indicated. We may have before
the eyes simply a sign of some fact, but perceive the fact which is the meaning of the sign.
We look out of the window and "see it is wet to-day", though wetness is something to be felt
rather than seen; {422} having previously observed how wet ground looks, we now respond promptly
to the visual appearance by knowing the indicated state of affairs. In the same way, we say
that we "hear the street car", though a street car, we must admit, is not essentially a noise.
What we hear, in strictness, is a noise, but we respond to the noise by perceiving the presence
of the car. Responding to a stimulus presented to one sense by perceiving a fact which could
only be directly presented to another sense is exemplified also by such common expressions
as that the stone "looks heavy", or that the bell "sounds cracked". or that the jar of fruit
"smells sour". Sense perception, then, is responding to a stimulus by knowing some fact indicated
by it either directly or indirectly. Perception that is not sense perception occurs when the
fact perceived is not even indirectly presented to the senses at the moment. The fact is then
presented by recall; yet the fact in question is not recalled. Recall not only gives you facts
previously perceived, but may provide the data, the stimulus, for fresh perception. Putting
together two recalled facts, you may perceive a further fact not previously known. Remembering
that you took your umbrella to the office this morning in the rain, that it was fine when you
left the office, and that you certainly did not have the umbrella when you reached home, you
perceive that you must have left it at the office. Reading in the paper of preparations for
another polar expedition, and remembering that both poles have already been discovered, you
perceive that there is something more in polar exploration than the mere race for the pole.
Perception of this sort amounts to "reasoning", and will be fully considered in another chapter,
while here we shall focus our attention on sense perception.

{423}

The Difference Between Perception and Sensation

If sense perception is a response to a sensory stimulus, so is sensation, and the question
arises whether there is any genuine difference between these two. In the instance of "hearing
the street car", the difference is fairly obvious; hearing the noise is sensation, while knowing
the street car to be there is perception.

Sensation is the first response aroused by a stimulus, or at least the first response that
is conscious. Perception is a second response, following the sensation, and being properly
a direct response to the sensation, and only an indirect response to the physical stimulus.
The chain of events is: stimulus, response of the sense organ and sensory nerve, first cortical
response which is sensation, second cortical response which is perception.

Conscious sensation is the response of the part of the cortex that first receives the nerve
current from the sense organ stimulated, the response of the "sensory area" for the particular
sense stimulated. When the eye is stimulated, the nerve current first reaches a small portion
of the occipital lobe, called the visual sensory area. Without that area there is no visual
sensation. When the ear is stimulated, the conscious sensation is the response of a small portion
of the temporal lobe called the auditory sensory area, and without this area there is no auditory
sensation. But the presence of the visual sensory area is not enough to give the visual perception
of facts, nor is the presence of the auditory sensory area enough to give auditory perception.
The cortical regions adjacent to the sensory areas are necessary for perception; if they are
destroyed, the individual may still see, but not know the objects seen; or may still hear,
but not recognize the words or tunes that he hears. If the cortical area destroyed is in the
parietal {424} lobe, adjacent to the sensory area for the cutaneous and kinesthetic senses,
he may still "feel" objects, but without being able to distinguish an apple from a lump of
coal, or a folded newspaper from a tin pail.

Sense perception, then, is a response of areas adjacent to the sensory areas, and this response
is aroused by nerve currents coming along "association fibers" from the sensory areas which
are first aroused from the sense organs.

The whole chain of events, from the time the stimulus reaches the sense organ to the time the
fact is perceived, occupies only a fifth or even a tenth of a second in simple cases, and the
interval between the beginning of the sensation to the beginning of the perception is not over
a twentieth when the fact is easily perceived. Since the sensation usually lasts for longer
than this, it overlaps the perception in time, and the two conscious responses are so blended
that it is difficult or impossible for introspection to separate them.

But when an unusual fact is presented, perception may lag, though sensation occurs promptly.
We may be baffled and confused for an instant, and have sensation without any definite perception;
or, more often, we make a rapid series of trial and error perceptions. In one instance, a noise
was first heard as distant thunder, and then, correctly, as somebody walking on the floor above.
In another case, a faint sound was first taken for a bird singing, then for a distant locomotive
whistle, and finally for what it was, the tinny noise of a piece of metal carried in the hand
and brushing against the overcoat as the person walked; this series occupied not over five
seconds. On touching an object in the dark, you may feel it as one thing and another till some
response is aroused that fits the known situation and so satisfies you. Such trial and error
perception can be observed very frequently if one is on the watch for {425} psychological curiosities;
and it justifies the distinction between sensation and perception, since the sensation remains
virtually unchanged while perception changes.

Another sort of shifting perception is seen in looking steadily at the "ambiguous figures"
which were considered in the chapter on attention, the cube, staircase, and others; and the
"dot figures" belong here as well. [Footnote: See p. 252.] In these cases the stimulus arouses
two or more different perceptions, alternately, while the sensation remains almost or quite
unchanged.

Perception and Image

The experiment with ambiguous figures also gives an answer to the question whether perception
consists in the addition of recalled memory images to the sensations aroused by the present
stimulus. If that were so, you should, when you see the upper side of the flight of stairs,
see them as wooden stairs or stone stairs, as carpeted or varnished, with shadows on them such
as appear on a real flight of stairs, with a railing, or with some other addition of a similar
nature; and, when the appearance changes to that of the under side of a flight of stairs, the
colors, shadows, etc., should change as well. The usual report is that no such addition can
be detected, and that the subject sees no filling-in of the picture, but simply the bare lines--only
that they seem at one moment to be the bare outline of the upper side, and at another moment
an equally bare outline of the lower side, of a flight of stairs.

So again, when you "hear the street car", you do not ordinarily, to judge from the reports
of people who have been asked, get any visual or kinesthetic image of the car, but you simply
know the car is there. You will quite {426} possibly get some such image, if you dwell on the
fact of the car's being there, just as some persons, in talking to a friend over the telephone,
have a visual image of the friend. There is no reason why such images should not be aroused,
but the question is whether they are essential to perception of the fact, and whether they
occur before or after the fact is perceived. Often they do not occur, and often, when they
do occur, they follow the perception of the fact, being aroused by that perception and not
constituting it.

Sometimes images are certainly aroused during the perception of a fact, and, blending with
the present rather vague sensation, add color and filling to the picture.

Here is an instance of this which I once observed in myself, in spite of the infrequency of
my visual images. Approaching a house through a wide field one winter night, and seeing a lamp
shining out of a window towards me, I seemed to see the yellowish light touching the high spots
in the grass around. I was surprised that the lamp should carry so far, and the next instant
saw that the light spots on the ground were small patches of snow, lighted only from the clouded
sky; and at this the yellow tinge of the spots vanished. I must have read the yellow color
into them to fit the lamplight. The yellow was an image blending with the actual sensation.
Colors tacked on to a seen object in this way are sometimes called "memory colors".

When this instance is considered carefully, however, it does not by any means indicate that
the image produced the perception. I responded to the pair of stimuli--lamp shining towards
me and light spots around me--by perceiving the spots as lighted by the lamp; and the color
followed suit. I next saw the spots as snow, and the color vanished. It was a case of trial
and error perception, with color images conforming to the perception.

Perception does not essentially consist in the recall of {427} images, but is a different sort
of response--what sort, we have still to consider.

Perception and Motor Reaction

Possibly, we may surmise, perception is a motor response, completely executed or perhaps merely
incipient, or at least a readiness for a certain motor response. This guess is not quite so
wild as our customary sharp distinction between knowing and doing might lead us to think. When
we say that reacting to a thing in a motor way is quite different from merely seeing the thing,
we forget how likely the child is to do something with any object as soon as he sees what it
is. We forget also how common it is for a person, in silently reading a word--which is perceiving
the word--to whisper it or at least move his lips. To be sure, persons who read a great deal
usually get over this habit, as the child more and more inhibits his motor response to many
seen objects. But may it not be that the motor response is simply reduced to a minimum? Or,
still better, may it not be that perceiving an object amounts to getting ready to do something
with it? May not seeing a word always be a getting ready to say it, even if no actual movement
of the vocal organs occurs? May not seeing an orange consist in getting ready to take it, peel
it, and eat it? May not perceiving our friend amount to the same thing as getting ready to
behave in a friendly manner, and perceiving our enemy amount to the same thing as getting on
our guard against him? According to this view, perception would be a response that adjusted
the perceiver to the fact perceived, and made him ready to do something appropriate.

In spite of the attractiveness of this theory of perception, it is probably not the real essence
of the matter. Just as perception may change while sensation remains the same, so there may
be a hesitation between two motor responses {428} to an object, without any change in the way
it is perceived; and just as a block may occur between sensation and perception, so also may
one occur between perception of a fact and the motor response. In other words, perception of
a fact may not spell complete readiness to act upon it. The best example of this is afforded
again by cases of localized brain injuries.

It happens, in motor aphasia, that the subject hears and understands a spoken word--fully perceives
it--and yet cannot pronounce it himself. And at that, there need be no paralysis of the speech
organs. The brain injury has affected the motor speech-coördinating machinery, and deprived
the individual of the power to get ready for speaking a word, even though he perceives it.

Analogous disabilities occur in respect to other movements. It may happen, through injury somewhere
near the motor area, though not precisely in that area, that one who clearly perceives a seen
object is still quite incapable of handling it. He knows the object, and he knows in an abstract
way what to do with it, but how to go about it he cannot remember. This type of disturbance
is called "motor apraxia", and, like motor aphasia, it proves that there is a preparation that
follows perception and still precedes actual movement. Paralysis of the motor area is different;
then, the subject both perceives the object, and gets all ready to act upon it; only, the movement
does not occur.

The truth seems to be that a series of four responses occurs in the brain, in the process of
making a skilled movement dealing with a perceived object. First, sensation; second, perception
of the object; third, coördinating preparation for the act; and fourth, execution of the act
by the motor area arousing the lower motor centers and through them the muscles. The first
response is like receiving signals {429} or code messages; the second deciphers the messages
and knows the state of affairs; the third plans action; and the fourth sends out orders to
the agents that perform the action.

The distinction between perception and preparation for action is sometimes rather difficult
to draw. The twelve o'clock whistle means time to drop your tools, and it is hard to draw a
line between knowing the fact and beginning the act. On the other hand, when my watch tells
me the noon hour is almost over, some little time may be required before I get into motion.
Where there is no block or inhibition, the chain of responses runs off with such speed as to
seem a single response. But a block may occur at any one of several places. It may check the
actual movement, as in the "delayed reaction", [Footnote: See p. 76.] and in cases where we
itch to do something yet check ourselves. Here the preparation occurs, but the execution is
checked. Sometimes the block occurs between perception and preparation, when we know a fact
but find nothing to do about it or hesitate between two ways of acting. Sometimes, also, the
block occurs between sensation and perception; a sudden loud noise will sometimes throw a person
into a momentary state of confusion during which he is unable to recognize the noise.

Blocking of response at different stages can be illustrated very well in the case of anger.
The irritating stimulus gives a prompt fighting reaction, unless checked at some stage. When
the check prevents me from actually striking the offending person, but leaves me clenching
my fist and gnashing my teeth, the chain of responses has evidently gone as far as readiness
for action, and been blocked between that stage and the stage of execution. Probably the inhibitory
influence here is anticipation of bad consequences. The block may occur one stage further back,
when I say to myself that {430} I mustn't let myself get "all riled up" since it will spoil
my morning's work; here, instead of substituting the clenched fist for actual fighting, I substitute
a bored or contemptuous attitude for the pugnacious attitude. All this time I still am conscious
of the offense done me. But suppose something leads me to try to look at the other person's
behavior from his own point of view--then I perceive it in a different light, and it may no
longer appear a personal offense to myself. I here get a substitute perception.

The process of blocking and substituting is the same process that we have seen in trial and
error.[Footnote: See p. 408.] The response proving unsatisfactory, or promising to be unsatisfactory,
is checked and a substitute response found. Other elements in the situation get a chance to
exert their influence on the reaction. If perception of a fact were absolutely the same as
preparing a motor act, we could not look over the situation, perceiving one fact after another,
and letting our adjustment for action depend on the total situation instead of on the separate
facts successively observed; nor could we perceive one fact while preparing the motor response
to another fact, as is actually done in telegraphy, typewriting, reading aloud, and many other
sorts of skilled action. In reading aloud, the eyes on the page keep well ahead of the voice;
while one word is being pronounced, the next word is being prepared for pronouncing, and words
still further ahead are in process of being perceived.

We conclude, accordingly, that perception of an object is not absolutely the same thing as
motor response to the object, nor even as motor readiness to respond, although the transition
from perception to motor readiness may be so quick that the whole reaction seems a unit. In
reality, perception of the object precedes the motor adjustment, and is one factor in determining
that adjustment.

{431}

What Sort of Response, Then, Is Perception?

We can say this, that perception is knowing the fact, as distinguished from readiness to act.
We can say that perception is an adjustment to facts as they are, while motor adjustment is
a preparation for changing the facts. Perception does not alter the facts, but takes them as
they are; movement alters the facts or produces new facts. We can say that perception comes
in between sensation and motor preparation. But none of these statements is quite enough to
satisfy us, if we wish to know something of the machinery of perception. What is the stimulus
in perception, and what is the nature of the response?

It takes a collection of stimuli to arouse a perception. This collection is at the same time
a selection from among the whole mass of sensory stimuli acting at any moment on the individual.
Perception is thus a fine example both of the "law of selection" and of the "law of combination".
[Footnote: See pp. 256, 263.] Perception is at once a combining response and an isolating response.

We perceive a face--that means that we take the face as a unit, or make a unitary response
to the multiple stimuli coming from the face. At the same time, in perceiving the face, we
isolate it from its background, or disregard the numerous other stimuli that are simultaneously
acting upon us. If we proceed to examine the face in detail, we may isolate the nose and perceive
that as a whole. We might isolate still further and perceive a freckle on the nose, taking
that as a whole, or even observing separately its location, diameter, depth of pigmentation,
etc. Even if we went so far as to observe a single speck of dust on the skin, in which case
isolation would about reach its maximum, combination would still stay in the game, for we should
either note {432} the location of the speck--which would involve relating it to some part of
the face--or we should contrast it with the color of the skin, or in some similar way take
the single stimulus in relation with other present stimuli. Perception is always a unitary
response to an isolated assemblage of stimuli.

Consider these two opposite extremes: taking in the general effect of the view from a mountain
top, and perceiving the prick of a pin. In the first case, combination is very much in evidence,
but where is the isolation? There is isolation, since internal bodily sensations, and very
likely auditory and olfactory sensations as well, are present but do not enter into the view.
In the case of the pin prick, isolation is evident, but where does combination come in? It
would not come into the mere reflex of pulling the hand away, but perceiving the pin means
something more than reflex action. It means locating the sensation, or noticing its quality
or duration or something of that sort, and so contrasting it with other sensations or relating
it to them in some way. To perceive one stimulus as related to another is to respond to both
together.

But in describing perception as a unitary response to an isolated assemblage of stimuli, we
have not differentiated it from a motor response, for that, too, is often aroused by a few
(or many) stimuli acting together. What more can we say? In neural terms, we can only repeat
what was said before, that perception is the next response after sensation, being a direct
response to a certain combination of sensations, and being in its turn the stimulus, or part
of the stimulus, that arouses a motor adjustment, as it may also be the stimulus to recall
of previously observed facts. In more psychological terms, we can say that sense perception
is closely bound up with sensation, so that we seem to see the fact, or hear it, etc.; we perceive
it as present to the {433} senses, rather than as thought of or as anticipated. Motor readiness
is anticipatory, perception definitely objective. Motor readiness is an adjustment for something
yet to be, while perception is an adjustment to something already present.

Practised Perception

