On returning from the chapel we were shown an ingenious hiding-place for the priest in troublous
times: a cell covered by a trap-door in the staircase, and just large enough to contain one
person, a small table, and a stool; whilst a loop-hole in the wall admitted an apology for
light and air. Of heir-looms, there are at Sawston Hall, plenty of curious old pictures and
engravings, books, missals, a real relic of chivalry, (light, well-poised, and made of the
true lance-wood,) a tilting lance; Queen Mary's bed, and her pincushion; and a singular glass
water-jug, made in the reign of Queen Anne, which, when the present proprietor of Sawston took
possession of his inheritance, had been laid up for seventy years; it is now, we believe, off
the superannuated list, and sees daily service. We have only space briefly to allude to the
tradition, which, sketched at length in the valuable periodical to which we have referred our
readers, induced us to supply the present illustrative account. The Princess Mary fleeing from
the persecutions of the heads of the Protestant party, was entertained and lodged for a night
by Sir John Huddleston, of Sawston. The hall was in consequence besieged by an immense mob
from Cambridge, fired, and nearly destroyed; Mary and her host with difficulty escaped, (she
disguised as a market-woman,) and as queen, she rebuilt Sawston with the stones of Cambridge
Castle.

M.L.B.

       *       *       *       *       *

MANNERS & CUSTOMS OF ALL NATIONS.

       *       *       *       *       *

CHINESE CITIES.

(For the Mirror.)

The cities of China are generally of a square form, surrounded with lofty walls, having projecting
towers at regular intervals, and are usually encompassed by a ditch, either dry or full of
water. Distributed through the streets and squares, or situated in the vicinity of the principal
gates, are round, hexagonal or octagonal towers, of various heights, triumphal arches, beautiful
temples dedicated to idols, and monuments erected in honour of those who have rendered important
services to the nation, or the people; and lastly some public buildings more remarkable for
extent than magnificence.

The squares are large, the streets long and of different breadths, the houses have, for the
most part, but a ground floor, and rarely exceed one story. The shops are varnished, and ornamented
with silk and porcelain. Before each door is fixed a painted and gilded board, seven or eight
feet high, supported on a pedestal, and having inscribed on it three large characters chosen
by the merchant for the sign of his shop, to distinguish it from all others. To these are often
added a list of the articles to be disposed of, and the name of the seller. Under all, conspicuous
for their size, are the characters "Pou-Hou," (no cheating here.)

G.L.S.

       *       *       *       *       *

FIGS

(For the Mirror.)

Figs have, from the earliest times, been reckoned among the delights of the palate. Shaphan
the scribe, who made for the use of the young king Josiah, that compendium of the law of Moses,
which is called Deuteronomy, enumerates among the praises of his country, that it was a land
of figs.

The Athenians valued figs at least as highly as the Jews. Alexis called figs a "a food for
the gods." Pausanias says, that the Athenian Phytalus was rewarded by Ceres, for his hospitality,
with the gift of the first fig tree. Some foreign guest, no doubt, transmitted to him the plant,
which he introduced into Attica. It succeeded so well there, that Uthanaeus brings forward
Lynceus and Antiphones, vaunting the figs of Attica as the best on earth. Horapollo, or rather
his commentator Bolzani, says, that when the master of the house is going a journey, he hangs
out a broom of fig boughs for good luck. Our forefathers preferred a broom of birch; as if,
in the master's absence, it was well to remember the rod.

A taste for figs marked the progress of refinement in the Roman empire. In Cato's time, but
six sorts of figs were known; in Pliny's, twenty-nine. The sexual system of plants, seems first
to have been observed in the fig tree; whose artificial impregnation is taught by Pliny, under
the name of caprification.

In modern times, the esteem for figs has been still more widely diffused.

When Charles the Fifth visited Holland, in 1540, a Dutch merchant sent him a plate of figs,
as the greatest delicacy which Ziriksee could offer.

H.B.A.

       *       *       *       *       *

ALNWICK FREEMEN.

Alnwick, in Northumberland, is remarkable for the peculiar manner of making freemen. Those
to be made free, or as the saying is, to leap well, assemble in the market place early on St.
Mark's day on horseback, with every man a sword by his side, dressed in white, all with white
night caps, attended by four chamberlains mounted and armed in the same manner. Hence they
proceed with music to a large, dirty pool, called Freeman's Well, where they dismount, and
draw up in a body, and then rush through the mud as fast as they can. As the water is generally
very foul, they come out in a dirty condition; but after taking a dram, they put on dry clothes,
remount their horses, and ride full gallop round the confines of the town, when they return,
sword in hand, and are met by women decorated with ribands, bells, &c. ringing and dancing.
These are called timber vasts. The houses of the new freemen are, on this day, distinguished
by a holly bush, as a signal for their friends to assemble and make merry.

This ridiculous ceremony is attributed to King John, who being mired in the well, as a punishment
for not mending the road, made the above custom a part of the charter of the town.

H.B.A.

       *       *       *       *       *

THE ANECDOTE GALLERY.

       *       *       *       *       *

DOCTOR PARR.

How many a fine mind has been lost to mankind by the want of some propitious accident, to lead
it to a proper channel; to prevent its current from "turning awry and losing the name of action!"
We know not whether the story of Newton's apple be true, but it may serve for an illustration,
and if that apple had not fallen, where would have been his Principia? If the Lady Egerton
had not missed her way in a wood, Milton might have spent the time in which he wrote "Comus,"
in writing "Accidence of Grammar;" and if Ellwood, the quaker, had not asked him what he could
say on "Paradise Regained," that beautiful poem (so greatly underrated) would have been lost to us.

Samuel Parr was born at Harrow-on-the-Hill, June 15 (o.s.) 1747. He was the son of Samuel Parr,
a surgeon and apothecary of that place, and through him immediately descended from several
considerable scholars, and remotely (as one of his biographers, Mr. Field, asserts) from Sir
W. Parr, who lived in the reign of Edward IV., and whose granddaughter was Queen Catharine
Parr, of famous memory. It does not appear from Parr's writings (as far as we remember) that
he laid claim to this high ancestry; yet the name of Catharine, which he gave to one of his
daughters, may be imagined to imply as much. His mother, whose maiden name was Mignard, was
of the family of the celebrated painter. It was the accident of Parr's birthplace that, probably,
laid the foundation of his fame, for to the school of his native village, then one of the most
flourishing in England, he was sent in his sixth year; whilst, under other circumstances, it
is likely that he would have been condemned to an ordinary education and his father's business.
So many seeds is Nature constantly and secretly scattering, in order that one may fall upon
a spot that shall foster it into a a plant. In his boyhood, he is described by his sister,
Mrs. Bowyear, as studious after his kind, delighting in Mother Goose and the Seven Champions,
and not partaking much in the sports usual to such an age. He had a very early inclination
for the church, and the elements of that taste for ecclesiastical pomp, which distinguished
him in after life, appeared when he was not more than nine or ten years old. He would put on
one of his father's shirts for a surplice, (till Mr. Sanders, the vicar, supplied him, as Hannah
did his namesake, with a little gown and cassock;) he would then read the church service to
his sister and cousins, after they had been duly summoned by a bell tied to the banisters;
preach them a sermon, which his congregation was apt to think, in those days, somewhat of the
longest; and even, in spite of his father's remonstrances, would bury a bird or a kitten (Parr
had always a great fondness for animals) with the rites of Christian burial. Samuel was his
mother's darling; she indulged all his whims, consulted his appetite, and provided hot suppers
for him almost from his cradle. He was her only son, and was at this time very fair and well-favoured.
Providence, however, foreseeing that at all events vanity was to be a large ingredient in Parr's
composition, sent him, in its mercy, a fit of small-pox; and, with the same intent, perhaps,
deprived him of a parent, who was killing her son's character by kindness. Parr never was a
boy, says, somewhere, his friend and school-fellow, Dr. Bennet. When he was about nine years
old, Dr. Allen saw him sitting on the churchyard gate at Harrow, with great gravity, whilst
his school-fellows were all at play. "Sam. why don't you play with the others?" cried Allen.
"Do not you know, sir," said he, with vast solemnity, "that I am to be a parson?" And Parr
himself used to tell of Sir W. Jones, another of his school-fellows, that as they were one
day walking together near Harrow, Jones suddenly stopped short, and, looking hard at him, cried
out, "Parr, if you should have the good luck to live forty years, you may stand a chance of
overtaking your face." Between Bennet, Parr, and Jones, the closest intimacy was formed; and
though occasionally tried, it continued to the last. Sir W. Jones, indeed, was soon carried,
by the tide of events, far away from the other two, and Dr. Bennet quickly shot a-head of poor
Parr in the race of life, and rose to the Irish bench.

These three challenged one another to trials of skill in the imitation of popular authors--they
wrote and acted a play together--they got up mock councils, and harangues, and combats, after
the manner of the classical heroes of antiquity, and under their names--till, at the age of
fourteen, Parr being now at the head of the school, was removed from it and placed in his father's
shop.

The doctor must have found in the course of his practice, that there are some pills which will
not go down--and this was one. Parr began to criticize the Latin of his father's prescriptions,
instead of "making the mixture;" and was not prepared for that kind of Greek with which old
Fuller's doctor was imbued, who, on being asked why it was called a Hectic fever, "Because,"
saith he, "of an hecking cough which ever attendeth that disease." Accordingly, Parr having
in vain tried to reconcile himself to the "uttering of mortal drugs" for three years, was at
length suffered to follow his own devices, and in 1765, was admitted of Emmanuel College, Cambridge.
Dr. Farmer was at that time tutor. Of this proficient in black letter (he was one of the earliest,
and perhaps the cleverest, of his tribe) we are told by Archdeacon Butler, in a note, that
he was a man of such singular indolence, as to neglect sending in the young men's accounts,
and is supposed to have burnt large sums of money, by putting into the fire unopened letters,
which contained remittances, conveyed remonstrances, and required answers.

At college Parr remained about fourteen months, when his resources were cut off by the sudden
death of his father. On balancing his accounts, three pounds seventeen shillings appeared to
be all his worldly wealth; and it has been asserted by one of the many persons who have contributed
their quota to the memorabilia of Parr, that had he been aware beforehand of possessing so
considerable a sum, he would have continued longer in an university which he quitted with a
heavy heart, and which he was ever proud to acknowledge as his literary nursing-mother. It
is melancholy to reflect on the numbers of young men who squander the opportunities afforded
them at Cambridge, and Oxford, without a thought; "casting the pearl away, like the Aethiop,"
while, at the very moment, many are the sons of genius and poverty, who, with Parr, are struggling
in vain to hold fast their chance of the learning, and the rewards of learning, to be gained
there, and which would be to them instead of house and land. Thus were Parr's hopes again nipped
in the bud, and those years, (the most valuable of all, perhaps, for the formation of character,)
the latter years of school and college life, were to him a blank. Meanwhile Dr. Sumner, then
master of Harrow, offered him the situation of his first assistant. With this Parr closed;
he took deacon's orders in 1769; and five years passed away, as usefully and happily spent
as any which he lived to see. It was while he was under-master of Harrow that he lost his cousin,
Frank Parr, then a recently elected Fellow of King's College. Parr loved him as a brother;
and, though himself receiving a salary of only fifty pounds a year, and, as he says, and as
may be well believed, "then very poor," he cheerfully undertook for Frank, by way of making
his death-bed more comfortable, the payment of all his Cambridge debts, which proved to be
two hundred and twenty-three pounds; a promise which, it is needless to say, he faithfully
kept, besides settling an annuity of five pounds upon his mother.

In 1771, when Parr was in his twenty-fifth year, Dr. Sumner was suddenly carried off by apoplexy.
Parr now became a candidate for the head mastership of Harrow, founding his claims on being
born in the town, educated at the school, and for some years one of the assistants. The governors,
however, preferred Dr. Benjamin Heath, an antagonist by whom it was no disgrace to be beaten,
and whose personal merit Parr himself allowed to justify their choice. A rebellion among the
boys, many of whom took Parr's part, ensued; and in an evil hour he threw up his situation
of assistant, and withdrew to Stanmore, a village a very few miles from Harrow. Here he was
followed by forty of the young rebels, and with this stock in trade he proceeded to set up
a school on his own account. This, Dr. Johnstone thinks, was the crisis of Parr's life. The
die had turned up against him, and the disappointment, with its immediate consequences, gave
a complexion to his future fortunes, character, and comfort. He had already mounted a full-bottomed
wig when he stood for Harrow, anxious, as it should seem, to give his face a still further
chance of keeping its start. He now began to ride on a black saddle, and bore in his hand a
long wand with an ivory head, like a crosier in high prelatical pomp. His neighbours, who wondered
what it could all mean, had scarcely time to identify him with his pontificals, before they
saw him stalking along the street in a dirty, striped dressing-gown. A wife was all that was
now wanted to complete the establishment at Stanmore, and accordingly Miss Jane Marsingale,
a lady of an ancient Yorkshire family, was provided for him, (Parr, like Hooker, appears to
have courted by proxy, and with about the same success,) and so Stanmore was set a going as
the rival of Harrow. These were fearful odds, and it came to pass, that in spite of "Attic
symposia," and groves of Academus, and the enacting of a Greek play, and the perpetual recitation
of the fragment in praise of Harmodius and Aristogeiton, the establishment at Stanmore declined,
and at the end of five years, Parr was not sorry to accept the mastership of an endowed school
at Colchester. To Colchester, therefore, he removed with his wife and a daughter in the spring
of 1777. Here he took priest's orders at the hands of Bishop Lowth, and found society congenial
to him in Dr. Foster, a kindred whig, and in Thomas Twining, a kindred scholar.

       *       *       *       *       *

YOUNG NAPOLEON

This poor boy, whose destiny has suffered so remarkable a change, appears to have been a child
of great promise, both for intelligence and goodness of heart. The anecdotes concerning him
are of the most pleasing kind. From the time that he knew how to speak, he became, like most
children, a great questioner. He loved, above every thing, to watch the people walking in the
garden and in the court of the Tuileries, over which his windows looked. There was always a
crowd of people assembled there to see him. Having remarked that many of the persons who entered
the palace, had rolls of paper under their arms, he desired to know of his gouvernante what
that meant. He was told that they were unfortunate people, who came to ask some favour of his
papa. From this moment he shouted and wept whenever he saw a petition pass, and was not to
be satisfied till it was brought to him; and he never failed to present himself, every day
at breakfast, all those which he had collected in the course of the day before. It may be easily
supposed, that when this practice was known to the public, the child was never at a loss for
petitions.

He saw one day under his windows a woman in mourning who held by the hand a little boy about
four years old, also in mourning. This little fellow had in his hand a petition which he held
up from a distance to the young prince. The boy would know why this poor, little one was clothed
all in black. His governess answered that it was, no doubt, because his papa was dead. He manifested
a strong desire to talk with the child.--Madame Montesquieu, who seized every occasion of developing
his sensibility, consented, and gave an order that he should be brought in with his mother.
She was a widow whose husband had been killed in the last campaign, and finding herself without
resources, had petitioned the emperor for a pension. The young Napoleon took the petition and
promised to deliver it to his papa. The next morning he made up his ordinary packet of petitions,
but the one in which he took a particular interest he kept separate, and after putting the
mass into the hands of the emperor according to custom; "Papa," said he, "here is the petition
of a very unfortunate little boy; you are the cause of his father's dying, and now he has nothing.
Give him a pension, I beg." Napoleon took up his son and embraced him tenderly, gave him the
pension, which he antedated, and caused the patent to be made out in the course of the day.--Translated
from the French.--Westminster Review.

       *       *       *       *       *

AN ESKDALE ANECDOTE.

Extract of a Letter from the Ettrick Shepherd.

I chanced to be on a weeks' visit to a kind friend, a farmer in Eskdale-muir, who thought meet
to have a party every day at dinner, and mostly the same party. Our libations were certainly
carried rather to an extremity, but our merriment corresponded therewith. There was one morning,
indeed, that several of the gentlemen were considerably hurt, and there were marks of blood
on the plaster, but no one could tell what had happened. It appeared that there had been a
quarrel, but none of us knew what about, or who it was that fought.

But the most amusing part of the ploy (and a very amusing part it was) regarded a half hogshead
of ale, that was standing in the lobby to clear for bottling. On the very first forenoon, our
thirst was so excessive, that the farmer contrived to insert a spigot into this huge cask,
and really such a treasure I think was hardly ever opened to a set of poor thirsty spirits.
Morning, noon, and night, we were running with jugs to this rich fountain, and handing the
delicious beverage about to lips that glowed with fervour and delight. In a few days, however,
it wore so low, that before any would come, one was always obliged to hold it up behind; and,
finally, it ran dry.

On the very morning after that, the farmer came in with a wild raised look. "Gentlemen," said
he, "get your hats--haste ye--an' let us gang an' tak a lang wauk, for my mother an' the lasses
are on a-scrubbing a whole floorfu' o' bottles; an' as I cam by, I heard her speaking about
getting the ale bottled the day."

       *       *       *       *       *

THE SKETCH-BOOK.

       *       *       *       *       *

CREATING WANTS.

An old, but a true Story.

I was bred a linen-draper, and went into business with better than a thousand pounds. I married
the daughter of a country tradesman, who had received a boarding-school education. When I married
I had been in business five years, and was in the way of soon accumulating a fortune. I was
never out of my shop before it was shut up, and was remarked by my friends as being a steady
young man, with a turn for business.

I used to dine in the parlour, where I could have an eye upon the shop; but my new acquaintances
told me this was extremely ungenteel; that if I had no confidence in my men I should get others;
that a thief would be a thief, watch him how I would, and that I was now too forward in the
world to be a slave to the shop.

From being constantly in my shop from seven in the morning till eight in the evening, I lay
in bed till nine, and took a comfortable breakfast before I made my appearance below. Things,
however, went on very well--I bowed to my best customers, and attended closely to my business
while I was in it, trade went on briskly, and the only effect of this acquaintance was the
necessity of letting our friends see that we were getting above the world, by selling some
of our old-fashioned furniture, and replacing it with that which was more genteel, and introducing
wine at dinner when we had company.

As our business increased, our friends told us it would be extremely genteel to take a lodging
in summer just at the outskirts of the city, where we might retire in the evening when shop
was shut, and return to it next morning after breakfast; for as we lived in a close part of
the town, fresh air was necessary to our health; and though, before I had this airy lodging,
I breathed very well in town, yet indulging in the fresh air, I was soon sensible of all the
stench and closeness of the metropolis; and I must own I began to relish a glass of wine after
dinner as well when alone as when in company: I did not find myself the worse in circumstances
for this lodging; but I did not find I grew richer, and we had no money to lay by.

We soon found out that a lodging so near town was smothered with dust, and smelt too much of
London air, therefore I took a small house we had seen about five miles from town, near an
acquaintance we had made, and thought it imprudent to sleep from home every night, and that
it would be better for my business to be in town all the week, and go to this house on Saturday,
and continue there until Monday; but one excuse or other often found me there on Tuesday. Coach-hire
backward and forwards, and carriage of parcels, generally cost us seven or eight shillings
a week; and as a one-horse chaise would be attended with very little more expense, and removing
to a further distance, seeing the expense would be saved by not having our house full of company
on Sunday, which was always the case, being so near town; besides the exercise would be beneficial,
for I was growing corpulent with good living and idleness. Accordingly we removed to the distance
of fifteen miles from town, into a better house, because there was a large garden adjoining
it, and a field for the horse. It afforded abundance of fruit, and fruit was good for scorbutic
and plethoric habits, our table would be furnished at less expense, and fifteen miles was but
an hour's ride more than seven miles.

All this was plausible, and I soon found myself under the necessity of keeping a gardener;
so that every cabbage that I before put on my table for one penny cost me one shilling, and
I bought my dessert at the dearest hand; but I was in it--I found myself happy--in a profusion
of fruit, and a blight was little less than death to me.

This new acquired want, now introduced all the expensive modes of having fruit in spite of
either blasts or blights. I built myself a small hot house, and it was only the addition of
a chaldron or two of coals; the gardener was the same, and we had the pride of putting on our
table a pine-apple occasionally, when our acquaintance were contented with the exhibition of
a melon.

From this expense we soon got into a fresh one. As we often out-staid Monday in the country,
it was thought prudent that I should go to town on Monday by myself, and return in the evening;
this being too much for one horse, a second-hand chariot might be purchased for a little more
than what the one-horse chaise would sell for; the field was large enough for two horses; going
to town in summer in an open carriage was choking ourselves with dust, burning our faces, and
the number of carriages on the road made driving dangerous; besides, having now a genteel acquaintance
in the neighbourhood, there was no paying a visit in a one-horse chaise. Another horse would
be but very little addition in expense; we had a good coach-house, and the gardener would drive.
All this seemed true. I fell into the scheme; but soon found that the wheels were so often
going that the gardener could not act in both capacities; whilst he was driving the chariot,
the hot-house was neglected; the consequence was, that I hired a coachman. The chariot brought
on the necessity of a footman--a better acquaintance--wax candles--Sherry--Madeira--French
Wines, &c. In short, I grew so fond of these indulgencies that they became WANTS, and I was
unhappy when in town and out of the reach of them.

All this would have done very well if I had not had a business to mind; but the misfortune
was, that it took me off from trade--unsettled my thoughts; my shopmen were too much left to
themselves, they were negligent of my business, and plundered me of my property. I drew too
often upon the till--made no reserve for the wholesale dealers and manufacturers--could not
answer their demands upon me--and became--Bankrupt.

Reduced now to live upon a chop and a draught of porter, I feel my wants more than ever; my
wife's genteel notions having upset her, she has lost her spirits. We do little but upbraid
each other, and I am become despicable in my own opinion, and ridiculous in that of others.
I once was happy, but now am miserable.

       *       *       *       *       *

THE GATHERER.

  A snapper up of unconsidered trifles.
SHAKSPEARE

       *       *       *       *       *

GUDE NEWS.

Copied from an inscription over the fireplace of a public-house in Edinburgh, the frequent
resort of Burns.

Willie Christie tells them wha dinna ken, that he has a public house, first door down Libbertown
Wynd, in the Lawn Market, whaur he keeps the best o' stuff; gude nappy Yill frae the best o'
Bruars in big bottels an' wee anes, an' Porter frae Lunnon o' a' sorts; Whuske as gude as in
the Toun, an o' a' strength, an' for cheapness ekwall to ony that's gaun. Jinger Beer in wee
bottells at Tippence, an' Sma' Beer for three bawbees the twa bottels out of the house, an'
a penny the bottel in.

N.B. Toddy cheap an' unco' gude if 'tis his ain mackin.

S.H.

       *       *       *       *       *

EPIGRAM.

  Whilst Mary kissed her infant care,
  "You like my lip," she cried, "my dear."
  The smiling child, though half afraid,
  Thus to her beauteous mother said:
  "With me, mamma, oh, do not quarrel,
  I thought your lip had been my coral."

E.A.W.

       *       *       *       *       *

AN EXPLETIVE.

A newspaper tells us that an old woman died April 26, at Wolverhampton, aged 150 years.