We have already transferred a large number of skilled mechanics from non-war work to munition
making, and daily the number grows. London compares excellently with other places as regards
the number of volunteers, but naturally most of the men are coming from the great engineering
centres in the North and Midlands.

A REGISTER OF 90,000

In a London dispatch of the Associated Press, dated July 16, this report appeared:

After upward of a fortnight's work in the six hundred bureaus which were opened when the Minister
of Munitions, David Lloyd George, gave labor the opportunity voluntarily to enroll as munitions
operatives, closed today with a total registration of ninety thousand men. Registration hereafter
will be carried out through the labor exchanges.

More men are needed, but the chief difficulty now is to place them on war work with a minimum
of red tape. H.G. Morgan, assistant director of the Munitions Department, said today that this
problem was causing some unrest among the workers, but that the transfers would take time,
for the Government was anxious not to disturb industry more than necessary.

"The problem almost amounts to a rearrangement of the whole skilled labor of the country,"
said Mr. Morgan. "This, of course, will take considerable time."

THE CAMPAIGN CONTINUED

A cable dispatch from London to THE NEW YORK TIMES said on July 15:

The Daily Chronicle says that a campaign to urge munition workers to even greater efforts is
to open today with a meeting at Grantham, and next week meetings will be held at Luton, Gloucester,
Stafford, Preston, and other centres. In the course of the next few weeks hundreds of meetings
will take place in all parts of the Kingdom.

The campaign has been organized by the Munitions Parliamentary Committee, the secretaries of
which have received the following letter from Munitions Minister Lloyd George:

"I am glad to hear that members of the House are responding so enthusiastically to my pressing
appeal to them to undertake a campaign in the country to impress upon employers and workers
in munitions shops the urgent and even vital necessity for a grand and immediate increase in
the output of munitions of war."

Professor Mantoux has been asked by the French Munitions Minister to keep in touch with the
campaign and to report from time to time as to the results achieved. It is felt that what affects
England affects France, and later a similar campaign may be inaugurated in that country.

Sixty members of Parliament have promised to speak at the meetings.

COAL STRIKE IN WALES

Most of the coal for Great Britain's navy comes from South Wales, and the supply was reduced
by the enlistment of sixty thousand Welsh miners in the army. The labor crisis was first threatened
three months ago, when the miners gave notice that they would terminate the existing agreements
on July 1, and, in lieu of these, they proposed a national program, giving an all-around increase
in wages. The owners objected to the consideration of the new terms during the war and asked
the miners to accept the existing agreements plus a war bonus. After a series of conferences
the union officials agreed to recommend a compromise, which was arranged through the Board
of Trade. The miners, however, voted yesterday against this, and the Government was obliged
to take action.

On July 16 the Associated Press cabled from London:

The Executive Committee of the South Wales Miners' Federation, most of the members of which
are opposed to the strike, came to London today and conferred with Walter Runciman, President
of the Board of Trade, who, it is understood, made new proposals for a settlement of the trouble,
which will be considered at a meeting in the morning.

There is no indication of any weakening on the part of the men. Even the men in one district
who last night decided to resume work reversed their decision, and not a pick was moving today.

However, the impression still prevails that a few days will see an end of the walkout. It is
not believed that the introduction of the Munitions of War act can force the men to return
to work, for it is impossible to bring 150,000 men before the courts to impose fines for contravening
the act.

In fact, the resort to this measure is believed rather to have made the situation worse, and
the men's demands now include its withdrawal so far as coal mining is concerned.

An Associated Press dispatch from Cardiff, Wales, on July 20 reported:

Subject to ratification by the miners themselves through delegates who will assemble tomorrow,
representatives of the Government and of the coal mine owners on the one hand, and the Executive
Committee of the South Wales Miners' Federation on the other, agreed today to terms that, it
is thought, will end the coal miners' strike, which, since last Thursday, has tied up the South
Wales coal fields and menaced the fuel supply of the navy.

The terms arrived at grant a substantial increase in wages and involve concessions to the strikers
which are considered by their Executive Committee as tantamount to an admission of the miners'
claims on nearly all the outstanding points. Tonight the delegates were visiting their districts,
canvassing the sentiment there preparatory to tomorrow's vote.

If tomorrow's meeting should bring a settlement of the strike the thanks of the country will
go chiefly to David Lloyd George, the Munitions Minister, for it was his arrival here last
night that paved the way for breaking the deadlock between the miners and the mine owners.

If the vote tomorrow is favorable to ending the strike, two hundred thousand men will return
to work immediately and agree to abide by the terms of the settlement until six months after
the termination of the war.

AMMUNITION IN FRANCE

M. Millerand, French Minister of War, after the Senate had approved, on June 29, the bill appropriating
$1,200,000,000 for war expenses of the third quarter of the year, reported as quoted by the
Associated Press:

From August 1 to April 1 France has increased her military production sixfold. The curve for
munitions has never ceased to mount, nor that representing the manufacture of our 75s. I can
give satisfying assurances also regarding the heavy artillery and small arms. From the 1st
of January to the 15th of May the other essentials of the war have been equally encouraging.
We are determined to pursue our enemies, whatever arms they may employ.

Yves Guyot, the economist and late Minister of Public Works in France, said to THE NEW YORK
TIMES correspondent on July 3:

France can hold her own against Germany. She herself makes all the shells that play such havoc
in the enemy's ranks, and she will keep on making all she needs.

The munitions problem in France is not so acute as in England. In France as soon as the war
started we began turning out the shells as fast as our factories could work. So, in a short
time, they were going full blast. We have been able to supply our army with ample ammunition
and to have shells enough to shake up the enemy whenever we put on spurts.

It is vitally important that England has come to the realization of the need of equipping her
own army with adequate ammunition. Up to now the English Army has been sadly handicapped, but
with the energetic Lloyd George in command the munitions output in the near future is certain
to bring a sudden change in the status of England in the war.

We in France being in such immediate contact with the horrors of war had a stern sense of the
necessity of fully equipping our army forced upon us at the very beginning of the conflict.
The only thing we have lacked has been steel, and we have been getting some of that from our
old friend, the United States. France has steel plants, and they do a tremendous amount of
work, but altogether they do not turn out enough for our ammunition works. So we had to turn
elsewhere for some of this product, and it was America that came to our aid.

We have got the steel with which to make shells. Our workmen are well organized and the whole
spirit prevailing among them is to help France to win the bloodiest war of her history.

The London Daily Chronicle in an interview with Albert Thomas, French Minister of Munitions,
quoted him as follows on July 8:

It is our duty to organize victory. To this we are bending all our energies. The war may be
long; difficulties may reach us of which we had no prevision at the start; but we shall keep
on until the end.

We know how great are the resources of Britain. We know what immense efforts she has put forth,
which have been a surprise not only to us but to the enemy as well, and we have every reason
for believing and knowing that these immense resources will continue to be used in the service
of the Allies.

Understand me, I do not say that our common task is an easy one, nor do I say that we are on
the eve of a speedy victory; but what I do say is that be the struggle long or short, we are
both ready to double, to treble, to quadruple, and, if necessary, to increase tenfold the output
of munitions of war.

We have pooled our resources, and I, for one, have no doubt, that these resources are great
enough to stand any strain which we may be called upon to put upon them; nor have I any fear
of an ultimate triumph. All the great moral forces of the world are on our side. The Allies
are fighting for the freeing of Europe from the domination of militarism; and that is fighting
into which every democrat can throw himself heart and soul. Defeat in such a cause is unthinkable.

RUSSIAN INDUSTRIALISTS RALLY

The Petrograd correspondent of the London Morning Post reported on June 11th the annual assembly
of leading members of the world of commerce and industry, as follows:

Speakers urged a general rally round the Rulers of the States, and proposals were made that
they should express collectively to the Ministers the readiness of the whole industrial and
mercantile class represented at that congress to place themselves at the disposal of the State
for the purpose of making better provision for the war. The example of England in instituting
a Ministry of Munitions should serve as a guide to Russia. A deputation, it was urged, should
be appointed to lay at the feet of the Emperor the heartfelt desire of all to devote themselves
to the sole purpose of obtaining victory over Germanism and to expound the ideas of their class
for the best means of employing their resources. England had turned all its manufacturing resources
into factories of munitions of war, and Russia must do the same.

Some speakers referred to the lack of capital for the proper exploitation of the resources
of the country, saying that this would be especially felt after the war was over. The Congress,
however, declined to look beyond the all-important need of the moment, namely, to direct the
entire resources of the country to the achievement of victory over Germanism.

The final sitting was attended by the President of the Duma, M. Rodzjanko, whose speech was
listened to with profound feeling. The Congress passed with acclamation various patriotic resolutions,
its main decision being to establish immediately a Central Committee for the provision of munitions
of war. It is expected that by this means Russia will be able to accomplish what England is
believed to be achieving in the same direction. Every factory and workshop throughout the country
is to be organized for the supply of everything needed by the armies in the field.

SPEEDING GERMAN WORKMEN

