In two days, according to the intimation of Rodolph to the Indian women, a deputation of the
settlers, headed by Captain Standish, and accompanied by Maitland, repaired to the Indian village
under the guidance of Samoset. They were expected by the inhabitants; and, as soon as they
were perceived approaching round the margin of the lake, two young men came forth to meet them,
and accompany them to the tent of the Chief. Mooanam was prepared for their reception, and
attired in his gala costume of furs and feathers, with his most elaborately worked battle-axe
hung to his side, and a long and slender spear, tipped with bone, in his hand.  He rose from
his seat on the ground at the entrance of the strangers, and greeted them courteously; while
his wife, the Squaw-Sachem Apannow, and his lively little son Nepea, stood by his side, and
smiled a welcome to Rodolph, pointing at the same time significantly to the beads which adorned
their necks and arms.

Standish had now an interpreter, though a very imperfect one; and by his means a sort of friendly
compact was formed, and gifts were exchanged as the pledges of its sincerity. An invitation
was then given to the young Chief and to his brother Quadequina--who was one of those who had
conducted the white men to their presence--to return the visit of the settlers, by coming the
following day to their town. The invitation was accepted, and the deputation returned to their
homes, escorted a great part of the by many of their Indian allies.

Great preparations were made at New Plymouth for the reception of the red Chief and his attendants,
in such a manner as to impress them with the wealth and power of emigrants.  The large wooden
building which was intended as a sort of council chamber and public hall, was hung inside with
cloth and linen of various colors, and ornamented with swords, and muskets, and pistols that
the colony could produce. An elevated seat was placed for the Governor at the upper end of
the apartment, and tables composed of long planks were laid down on each side, on which were
arranged such viands as the settlers could produce. The repast was humble; but Helen and her
female friends arranged it with taste, and the children gathered the bright wild flowers that
so early enliven the groves and meadows when an American winter has passed away, to deck the
tables, and form garlands along the walls. A strange contrast did these buds and blossoms of
spring form to the implements of war and death with which they were mingled: but the effect
of the whole was gay, and appeared very imposing to the simple children of the wilderness,
as they entered the wide portal, and passed up the hall to meet the Puritan Governor.

John Carver and his attendants were clad in the dark-colored and sober garments which were
usually adopted by their sect; and their long beards and grave countenances struck a feeling
of awe and reverence into their savage guests.  But the red men betrayed no embarrassment or
timidity.  They advanced with a step at once bold and graceful, and even controlled their natural
feeling of curiosity so far as to cast no wandering glances at the novelties that surrounded
them.  They kept their eyes steadily fixed on the Governor, and returned his salutation with
a courteous dignity that did credit to their native breeding; and then the Chief and Quadequina
seated themselves on the high-backed chairs that were placed for them on each side of the seat
of the President. Such a mode of sitting was certainly altogether new to these sons of the
forest, and they found it both awkward and disagreeable; yet they showed no discomposure or
restraint, and not a smile betrayed their surprise, either at this or any other of the strange
customs of their hosts.

After a few rather amusing efforts to carry on a communication with his guests, through the
intervention of Samoset, Carver invited them to table, and again had occasion to admire the
readiness and the natural grace with which they accommodated themselves to customs so new and
so wonderful as those of the white men. When the repast was concluded, the President led Mooanam
and his party round the village, and showed them everything that was worthy of attention; and
so intelligent did he find them, that he had no difficulty in making them comprehend the use
of many European implements, and many of the inventions and contrivances of civilized life.
With much satisfaction the good pastor, Brewster, marked the sparkling eyes and speaking countenances
of these gentle savages; for he there hoped he saw encouragement to his ardent hope of ere
long bringing them to a knowledge of the simple and saving truths of the gospel. With the Governor's
permission, he led them to the plain and unadorned edifice which was the emigrants' place of
worship, and easily made them understand that it was dedicated to the service of the one Great
Spirit who reigns over all; and from thence they were conducted to the cemetery, and shown,
by expressive signs, the insult that had been offered to the dead by men of their own race.
Some war- like implements that had been picked up after one of the recent skirmishes were shown
to Mooanam and his brother, when they instantly exclaimed, ‘Nausett!' and knitting their brows,
and putting themselves into an attitude of defiance, they plainly intimated that the tribe
was one with which they were at enmity.

They pointed in the direction where the Nausetts dwelt, and seemed to invite the settlers to
join them in assaulting their encampment; but ignorance of their language, and of their habits
prevented the President from assenting to what appeared to be their earnest wish.

As the sickness that had so long raged in the colony had now nearly disappeared, and the advance
of the season promised soon to open sources of plentiful provision in the and the fields and
streams, Brewster felt that he could be spared for a time from the settlement; and he proposed
to Mr. Carver that he should return with Mooanam to his village, and endeavor to acquire such
a knowledge of the native language, as should enable hint to act as an interpreter, and also
give him the means of imparting to the red men the spiritual knowledge that he so ardently
desired to bestow. The Governor willingly consented to this proposal; and when it was explained
to the Indian Chief, he gave the most cordial and ready assent. The mild yet dignified countenance
of the elder had won his respect and confidence; and he hoped to gain as great advantages from
a more intimate connection with the white men, as they expected from his alliance and support.

Henrich was now able to leave his couch, and again to join Edith and his young companions out
of doors; but he still looked delicate, and his former strength and activity had not fully
returned. He was, however, able to walk with the assistance of a crutch that his father had
made for him; and he formed one of the group that followed the Indians in their procession
through the village, and also escorted them as far as the confines of the wood in whose depths
their village lay. The Chief remarked the boy, and showed sympathy for his lameness, which
he was given to understand was owing to an aggression of the Nausetts; and his eyes flashed,
and his nostrils dilated, and his whole countenance was changed from its habitual expression
of gentle dignity, to one of fierce hostility. It was evident that, in these Wampanoges, the
settlers had secured allies who would be zealous and persevering in protecting them from the
attacks of their harassing enemies, the Nausetts; and who would, when the proper time should
arrive, assist them in fleeing the district of such troublesome inhabitants.

The Indians returned to their wigwams, and the elder accompanied them, and became an inmate
of Mooanam's lodge. He soon began to acquire some knowledge of the language of his host, and
also to instruct him and his wife in many English words and phrases, in which their aptitude
to learn astonished him. A constant communication was kept up between the Indian village and
that of the settlers, and a real regard and esteem sprang up between them. As the spring advanced,
Henrich was able to throw aside his crutch, and to accompany his father and mother in their
frequent visits to the wigwams, and much of his leisure time was passed in the company of the
young Indians of his own age, whose activity and address in all their sports and games he admired
and emulated. The presence of his friend Brewster in the Wampanoge village, also gave it increased
attractions in the eyes of Henrich.  The good man was still his friend and preceptor; and with
his assistance, he made considerable progress in the acquirement of the native language, as
well as in every other kind of knowledge that Brewster was able to impart. But all the elder's
instructions were made subservient to that best of all knowledge--the knowledge of God, and
of his revealed Word; and in this his pupil advanced and grew in a manner that both surprised
and delighted him. The boy's naturally thoughtful character had become matured during his long
and painful illness; and he had learnt to feel the value of heavenly things, and the comparative
littleness of all 'those things which are seen, and are temporal.'  He entered warmly into
all the elder's benevolent desires and intentions for the conversion of the dark heathen among
whom their lot was cast; and he already looked forward to being his assistant in the holy work.
Brewster regarded him as destined to become both a pastor and a zealous and successful missionary,
when he should arrive at a proper age; and he frequently spoke of him as his own appointed
successor in the spiritual direction of the congregation.

This sacred office Henrich anticipated with pride and satisfaction; for where could he find
a more fitting exercise for his adventurous and enterprising spirit, and also for his love
of the truth, than in seeking the wild men amid their forests and wildernesses, and winning
them to peace, and happiness, and civilization, by the knowledge of the all-powerful doctrines
of the gospel?

With the Indians he soon became a great favorite; and the readiness with which he acquired
the use of the bow, and learnt to cast the dart, and wield the light tomahawks that were used
by the Indian boys to practice their young hands, excited their warmest admiration, and made
them prophesy that he would one day become a distinguished Brave. His skill in hunting and
fishing also became considerable; and he learnt from his copper-colored friends many of their
songs and dances, with which he delighted Edith and Ludovico at home.  His new companions did
not draw away his affections from his sister. She was still the object of his warmest love;
and to give her pleasure was the strongest desire of his heart. In his long rambles with his
Indian play-fellows he never forgot his Edith; and many a stream was crossed, and many a rock
was climbed, to procure flowering plants to deck her garden, and creepers to clothe the bower
which he had formed for her beneath a venerable walnut-tree that stood within their father's
little domain, and at no great distance from their dwelling.

An attempt had been made, at first, by the colonists to follow the example of the primitive
church at Jerusalem; and to hold the land of which they had taken possession in common, to
be worked by the whole community, and the produce to be equally divided amongst their families
in due proportion.  But this plan was soon abandoned, as quite unsuited to the habits and manners
of these men of Britain; and every family had a small portion, consisting of an acre each,
assigned to it for the special use and maintenance of its members. The fields in every allotment
had been sown chiefly with grain procured from the friendly Wampanoges; and for some time past
the Nausetts had left them unmolested.

The knowledge which Brewster soon acquired of the soft 	and musical language of the natives
enabled him, with the assistance of Samoset, who still resided among them, to transact all
business between them and his countrymen; and also to become acquainted with the history and
circumstances of these useful allies.  He learnt that Mooanam was not the great Sachem or Sagamore
of the whole tribe, but that he was the eldest son of Masasoyt, the king or chief of the Wampanoges,
who resided at Packanokick, their principal village, which was situated in the state of Rhode
Island, near a mountain called Montaup, at a considerable distance from Patupet, the native
name for New Plymouth.

The means of a still more extended intercourse was about this time opened to the settlers,
by the arrival at New Plymouth of another Indian, who was already acquainted with the English,
and who was also a much greater proficient in their language than their friend Samoset. This
was no other than Squanto, the man who had been taken prisoner by Captain Hunt some years previous,
and conveyed to England. During his residence there, he had learnt to make himself understood
in the white man's tongue, and he had also learnt to admire and respect the white man's character.
When, therefore, he had found his way hack to his native land in a fishing vessel, and was
informed by the Wampanoge Sagamore--whom he visited in his journey to rejoin his own tribe--that
an English settlement had been formed on the shores of Cape Cod Bay, he determined to visit
it. Masasoyt encouraged him in this intention, and sent him to his son Mooanam, to be introduced
to the strangers, and to assist in forming a permanent alliance with them.

These overtures were joyfully received by the Governor, Mr. Carver, and he determined to take
immediate advantage of this opportunity of adding to the strength and security of the infant
colony. The intended departure of Samoset also made it very desirable to secure the friendship
and the services of the newcomer Squanto; as, notwithstanding the progress which Winslow and
some others were making in the Wampanoge language, a native interpreter must long be required,
in order to carry on a mutual intercourse.

An embassy to the great Sagamore was therefore resolved on, with a view to confirm and strengthen
the alliance that had been formed with his sons: and again Rodolph was selected  to accompany
Captain Standish as his aide-de-camp, while Samoset and Squanto were to act as interpreters.
The journey was long, and Maitland was obliged reluctantly to refuse Henrich's request to attend
him.  He feared the fatigue of so many days' travelling on foot would be too much for his son's
strength, and Helen strongly opposed his going.  He therefore gave up the much desired expedition,
and endeavored to chase away his feeling of disappointment by renewed exertions in ornamenting
the garden, and putting the grounds into a state of perfect order, to please his father on
his return.

The expedition was accompanied by the Sagamore's younger son, Quadequina, who was anxious to
introduce the new allies of his tribe to his father, and to ensure their friendly reception.
They reached Packanokick after a pleasant journey of about forty miles, and were kindly welcomed
by Masasoyt, to whom a messenger had been sent beforehand to prepare him for their arrival.

The Sagamore was a noble-looking old man, and was treated by his son, and by all his subjects,
with the most profound respect; nor did his strange costume in any way destroy his kingly appearance.
His limbs were naked, and were curiously painted and oiled, and his neck and arms were decorated
with strings of large white beads composed of polished bone; while a richly embroidered bag
or pouch, containing tobacco, was suspended at the back of his neck. His coronet of feathers
was lofty, and of the most brilliant colors, and the rest of his dress consisted of a tunic
and moccasins of dressed deer skin, exquisitely worked with colored grass and porcupine's quills.
He willingly and fully ratified the treaty which had been made by his sons with the white strangers,
whose appearance and manners seemed to prepossess him much in their favor; and after detaining
them for some days in his lodge, and entertaining him with the greatest hospitality and kindness,
he dismissed them with presents of native manufacture, in return for the European arms and
ornaments which they had offered to his acceptance. Samoset here left the settlers, and Squanto
became henceforth their faithful friend and useful interpreter.

CHAPTER IV

‘In your patience possess ye your souls.’     LUKE, xxi 19.

One evening, about the time that Helen began to expect the return of the embassy from Packanokick,
Henrich was unusually busy in the garden, arranging the flower-beds, and beautifying Edith's
bower, in which he and his sister had planned a little fête to welcome their father home. Their
mother had learnt to feel, that while they were thus employed, and within the precincts of
their own domain, they were safe from every danger. The Nausetts had not attempted any depredations
for an unusual length of time; and a feeling of security and peace had taken the place of that
constant watchfulness and anxiety, which had long proved so harassing to the settlers. They
began to flatter themselves that their foes had retired from the neighborhood, and would no
more return to molest them, now that they knew the emigrants to be on such friendly terms with
their powerful rivals, the Wampanoges. But false was this appearance of security; and vain
was every hope that the Nausetts would forego their designs of vengeance, or cease to devise
schemes of mischief against those by whom they thought themselves injured! They did not, indeed,
continue to attack the settlement openly, for they had been taught to dread the British fire-arms
and the British courage; but they still continued to lurk in the neighboring forest, and to
keep a vigilant watch over all that took place at the settlement.  Often were the keen eyes
of Coubitant and his most trusty followers fixed, with a malignant gaze, on the dwelling of
Rodolph and often were his movements, and those of his family, carefully noted by these sagacious
savages, when no suspicion of their presence existed in the minds of the settlers. They would
climb by night to the summit of some lofty tree that overlooked the village, and there remain
all day unseen, to obtain a knowledge of the habits and proceedings of their hated enemies,
and to devise plans for turning this knowledge to account.

The departure of the embassy to Packanokick was, consequently, well known to Coubitant, and
he resolved to take advantage of the absence of so considerable a part of the British force,
to execute, if possible, his schemes of vengeance. What they were, and how he attempted their
accomplishment, will be presently seen.

Edith's bower looked gay with its spring blossoms and luxuriant creepers, but Henrich was not
quite satisfied with its appearance, and he wished to place at its entrance a graceful climbing
plant which he had observed during his last walk to the Wampanoge village, and had neglected
to secure it on his return. It had been the desire of his parents that he should not go into
the forest which bordered their grounds, except in the company of his father or some of his
friends; but the apparent departure of the Nausetts had caused this injunction to be neglected
of late, and he, and even his younger brother and sister, had frequently strayed, unmolested,
a short distance into the wood, in search of flowers and fruits; and even Helen had ceased
to feel alarm.

'Edith,' said Henrich, on the evening of which we are speaking; 'I think my father will return
tonight, or tomorrow at the farthest; and I must complete my task before he arrives. Your bower
still requires a few plants to adorn the entrance, and the seats of moss are scarcely finished.
Let us go into the wood, and procure what we want before the sun sets, and our mother comes
out to see what progress we have made.'

‘No, Henrich,' replied his sister; 'do not go this evening. I know not why, but the wood looks
dark and gloomy; there is no sunlight on the path, and the shadows are so deep, that I could
fancy every low bush was a crouching Indian. I cannot go into the wood tonight.'

'You are timid, dear Edith. You never feared to go with me before; and why should you fear
this evening? See, the sun is still high in the horizon, and the darkness is all in your own
fancy. Come and see that lovely creeper I told you of; and when you have admired it hanging
from the decayed trunk of the old tree that supports it, you shall help me to remove it to
your bower, where it will be the fairest flower that grows, except the little fairy queen herself.'

Henrich caught his sister's hand, and kissing her playfully, attempted to draw her from the
bower. But she looked sad and anxious, and replied--

'O, Henrich! do not ask me; my bower is fair enough, and I would not go as far as that old
tree tonight, for all the flowers that grow in the forest. Stay with me, Henrich, dear. Our
mother will join us soon, and she will be alarmed if you are not here.'

The boy looked at his sister's pensive face with an affectionate smile: but he was not to be
diverted from his scheme.

‘Stay here, then, Edith,' he replied; 'and tell my mother that I shall return in little more
than ten minutes. Come, Ludovico,' he added, calling his little brother, who was always ready
to follow where Henrich led. 'Come, Ludovico, you are not afraid of the shadows.  Bring your
basket, and you shall gather moss while I dig up my creeper. When Edith sees its drooping white
flowers, she will forgive me for laughing at her unusual fears.'

Edith said no more.  She was sure that Henrich knew best; and she silently watched him leave
the garden, and enter the shade of the thick forest, accompanied by her joyous little brother.
Were her fears, indeed, the mere creation of her own young fancy I or were they occasioned
by one of those strange and unaccountable presentiments which have been felt so frequently
as to justify the old proverb,

'Coming events cast their shadow, before them.’

Edith sat on the mossy seat that Henrich had formed in her bower. It looked towards the wood,
and the commanding situation which it occupied, on a rising ground towards the center of the
garden, enabled her to overlook the green fence that enclosed the grounds, and to watch the
receding forms of her brothers, until they were hidden from her sight by the winding of the
path through the underwood.  Still she gazed, and her heart grew sad; and tears, which she
could not check, rolled down her cheeks. Did she again fancy? and did her tearful eyes now
convert the bushes into the figures of two dark Indians, in the costume of the dreaded Nausetts?
Surely those were human forms that moved so swiftly and so silently from the dark stem of a
gigantic oak, and crossing the forest path, were instantly again concealed.  Edith wiped her
glistening eyes.  She held her breath, and feared to move; but the beating of her young heart
was audible. No sound met her listening ear--no movement again was detected by her straining
eye--and she began to think that her own fears had conjured up those terrible forms.

But what was that distant cry that sounded from the wood in the direction in which her brothers
had gone? And why does she now behold Ludovico running wildly, and alone, down the path, with
terror depicted in his countenance?

Edith flew to meet him; but ere she reached him, the dreadful truth was made known to her by
his agonized cry.

'O, my brother! my brother! they have taken him, Edith; they are dragging him away! They will
kill him!' he shrieked aloud, as he threw himself into Edith's arms, almost choked with the
violence of his feelings, and the speed with which he had fled.

What could Edith do? She dared not leave him, to be carried off, perhaps, by some other prowling
savage, who might still be lingering near; and she could not carry him home.  Slowly she drew
him on, while every moment seemed an hour, that delayed her from giving the alarm, and sending
friends to the rescue of her darling brother.

‘O! why did he leave me?' she murmured. 'Why did he go, when I knew that danger was near?'

As soon as she had brought the panting and terrified Ludovico within the precincts of the garden,
she left him, and ran towards the house, calling loudly on her mother, who rushed out on hearing
her voice of terror, and was instantly made acquainted with the appalling fact that had occurred.
Who shall tell the agony of her feelings, or describe the sufferings of that mother's heart,
when she knew that her child was in the power of the savage and relentless enemies of the white
men?  She was, indeed, ignorant of the peculiar vengeance that they desired to wreak on her
husband and all his race; but the malevolent character of the Nausetts had been sufficiently
manifested in their repeated and destructive attacks on the settlement, and their willful desecration
of the graves of the exiles, to awaken the most poignant fears in her breast.  Rodolph, too,
was absent, and Brewster was still at the Wampanoge village; and where should she seek for
succor or for counsel!

Hastily calling Janet, who was the only domestic at home, she committed Ludovico to her care;
and taking Edith by the hand, she hurried from the garden, scarcely knowing whither she bent
her steps, but in the vague hope of meeting some of the settlers returning from their labors
in the fields, and inducing them to go to the rescue of her boy.

Onward she fled along the skirts of the forest, towards the fields of her husband's friend
Winslow, who, she well knew, would aid her with all his power: but she found him not, and no
human being appeared in sight to listen to her appeal for succor.  The sun was setting, and
all had returned to the village. What then could Helen do? To retrace her steps, and seek her
friends and neighbors in their homes, would be to lose precious moments, on which the life
and liberty of her Henrich might depend.  To strike into the depths of the forest, and cross
the belt of wood that divided the settlement from Mooanam's encampment would be the quickest
plan, and probably the most effectual, as her Wampanoge friends would know far better than
the settlers how to follow in the train of the fugitives, and how either to persuade or to
compel them to release their prisoners. Helen had never dared to enter the wood, except under
the protection of her husband, even in the broad light of day; and now the gloom of evening
was gathering around her, and the path that led into the wood was obscured by the shadows of
the thick foliage above. Bat where were all her fears and apprehensions? She was unconscious
of such feelings now.  The timid woman's heart was nerved to the occasion, and no danger could
now make her shrink.

She turned rapidly into the narrow path, and pursued her way with a firmness and decision,
of which, at any other time, when she was trusting to the arm and guidance of Rodolph, she
would have believed herself incapable. She knew the direction in which the Indian village lay,
and the slanting rays of the declining sun occasionally penetrated the thick wood, and cast
bright streaks of light on the mossy ground, and the boles of the giant trees around; but soon
they faded away, and a deep gloom overspread her path.

'Mother,' said the trembling little Edith, as she clung to Helen’s hand, and exerted her utmost
strength to keep up with her rapid steps; 'Mother, do you not fear to pass through this forest
now? Shall we not meet more of those dreadful savages who have taken away my brother? Oh, Henrich!
Henrich!' she cried--while tears burst afresh from her eyes at the recollection of her brother's
fate--'why did you venture into this wood to seek plants for my bower?' and the child sobbed
convulsively, from mingled grief and fear.

‘Cease, Edith, cease!' replied the deeply distressed, but now firm and courageous Helen: 'I
fear nothing while I am seeking aid for Henrich. God will protect us, my child!’ she added:
and she raised her glistening eyes to heaven, and gazed, hopefully and trustingly, on one bright
star that shone upon her between the summits of the lofty trees. Her heart was strengthened
by her pious confidence in her heavenly Father. She remembered also that Edith  looked to her
for protection; and all personal fears were absorbed by that generous and elevating feeling
of self-devotion, which is shared even by the lower and weaker animals when their offspring
are in danger. So Helen forgot herself, and felt strong to guard her child, and strong to seek
and obtain aid for him whose peril was more real and urgent.

Onward she pressed in silence but her soul was pleading eloquently with God. Soon Edith checked
her suddenly, and exclaimed, as she stumbled over something in the pathway, 'Oh mother, here
are Henrich's tools; and there I see Ludovico's basket full of moss! This is the spot to which
my brothers were coming; and yonder is the old tree, with the white flowers hanging on it,
that Henrich wished to plant by my bower. It must have been here that the Indians seized him
while he was at work.'

That part of the wood was more light and open than the rest of their way had been; and Helen
hastily surveyed it, that she might be able to guide the Wampanoges thither, and point out
to them where to commence the pursuit. Again she resumed her way; and, regardless of fatigue,
she never paused again until she reached the border of the quiet and lonely lake, on which
the rising moon was now shining in all her silvery splendor.  The huts of the friendly natives
stood out, clear and dark, on the level shore of the lake, and Helen and her weary child soon
reached them, and hastened to Mooanam’s lodge. There they found the Chief, and his interesting
young wife and children, sitting on the matted floor, listening with deep attention to the
words of life and salvation which Brewster was reading and interpreting to them from the Holy
Scriptures. The hurried entrance of Helen startled and alarmed them; for her countenance plainly
told them, that some calamity had occasioned her unlooked-for appearance at such an unwonted time.

With breathless haste she told her sad errand, and Brewster quickly explained her words to
the Chief, Mooanam seized his arms, and rushed from the lodge, calling, in a loud and commanding
voice, on his people to arm themselves and accompany him in the pursuit of the cruel and vindictive
Nausetts. All was hurry and excitement throughout the village, and every swarthy warrior pressed
forward, and desired to share in the expedition to save their young English favorite. It was
necessary, however, to leave a strong party at the village, to guard it from any act of treachery
or violence on the part of their malicious rivals, who, it was now evident, were still lurking
in the neighborhood; and, while Mooanam was selecting his party, and arranging his plans, a
clear shrill voice was heard from the margin of the lake, crying, 'The canoes! the canoes!
Quadequina is returning.'

'The canoes, the canoes!' resounded through the crowd; and Helen's heart hounded with joy and
gratitude. Rodolph was near; and all would yet be well.

Little Nepea had led Edith to the shore while the warriors were discussing their plans; and
in a strange mixture of English and Indian words, the children were conversing on the recent
sad event.  The quick ear of the young savage had detected the splash of oars at the farther
side of the lake, and he instantly discovered the three canoes that were leaving the opposite
coast, and emerging from the deep shadow of the overhanging trees.  He had raised that joyful
cry; and now all the inhabitants of the village rushed down to the shore to welcome their brethren,
and to tell the startling news.

Nearest to the brink stood Helen and her little girl, closely attended by Mooanam and the Squaw-Sachem
Apannow, who shared her impatient anxiety for the return of the embassy, that they might have
the benefit of Maitland's counsel, and also obtain an addition to their forces. The elder,
Brewster, was deeply moved at the misfortune that had befallen his young friend, Henrich. But
he knew that not a moment was to be lost! and, while all others were crowding down to the lake
side, he busied him self in arranging the volunteers for the pursuit, and seeing that his own
musket was in a proper state for active service.

The canoes sped swiftly across the moonlit waters; and as they neared the shore, Rodolph perceived
the forms of his wife and daughter, surrounded by the dark Indians, and ready to receive him.
But he felt only pleasure at this unexpected and welcome meeting.  No feeling of alarm crossed
his breast, until he drew near enough to distinguish Helen's countenance; and then he knew
that she had come with evil tidings.  He sprang from the canoe, eager to hear the truth: but
all the firmness and courage which had so wonderfully sustained his wife while she was obliged
to act for herself, forsook her the moment she felt herself supported by her Rodolph's arm;
and faintly exclaiming, 'O my son, my son!' she fainted; while little Edith burst into tears,
and sobbed out her brother's name.

'Tell me, in the name of heaven, what all this means!' exclaimed Maitland, turning a look of
eager inquiry on Mooanam, who stood with characteristic silence and apparent composure, waiting
the proper moment to speak. 'Tell me,' cried the distracted father again, 'what dire calamity
has befallen my boy?'

'My heart is dark for you,' replied the Sachem, in a voice of perfect calmness, though a tear
glistened in his coal black eye, and his brow was clouded by anxiety. 'My heart is very dark
for you, and for your young warrior--for, boy as he was, he was a brave at heart.'

Mooanam spoke in his native tongue, intermixed with English words and phrases, which he had
learned from Brewster and the other settlers; but the father's heart comprehended all he said,
and needed no interpreter.

'Is my son dead, then?' he exclaimed. 'Has accident or violence quenched his young spirit?'

'Worse than dead,' slowly replied the Sachem; and he looked pityingly at Helen, who now began
to recover her senses. 'Leave your wife to the care of the squaws,' he added, 'and come with
me to the wise man yonder, and he will tell you all.'

He led Rodolph to where Brewster was occupied in making preparations, and soon the afflicted
father was made acquainted with the fate of his son. He felt indeed that death--a calm and
peaceful death beneath his own accustomed roof, and with those he dearly loved around him--would
have been a far happier lot for Henrich than that to which he now feared he might be doomed--than
that which, possibly, his darling boy was at that moment enduring at the hands of his cruel
and malignant enemies.

The thought was maddening. But there was still a hope of saving him by speed and resolution;
and he urged the Sachem to depart instantly. One moment he gave to visit and endeavor to cheer
his wife, who now lay powerless and weeping in Apannow's lodge; and then he joined the Chief,
who, with Brewster and a band of picked men, were ready to accompany him. The pastor had already
learnt from Edith all that she could tell relative to the spot where her brother had been captured;
and to that spot the pursuing party hurried, and soon discovered the basket and the tools that
told where the boys had been so rudely interrupted in their work. Quickly the trodden grass,
and the broken branches of the thick underwood, showed in what direction the boy had been dragged
by his captors; and on the track the Wampanoge warriors followed, like hounds in the chase.
But, alas! the Nausetts had had a fearful start of them; and little hope existed in the breast
of Mooanam that they could overtake them, in time to avert the dreadful fate that he had feared
for Henrich.

The Sachem was himself an Indian, and he well knew the Indian desire for retaliation and vengeance.
He was, indeed, a man of a mild and generous nature, and he belonged to a tribe less distinguished
by cruelty than the Nausetts. But still he felt that, according to the savage code of the natives,
blood must atone for blood, and he believed that already the life of Henrich had probably been
sacrificed in expiation of his father's having slain the son of the Nausett Chief. Still he
led his warriors on, and neither paused nor spoke until the party emerged from the thick wood,
upon a little opening that was lighted up brilliantly by the moon-beams. Here, where it was
evident a small temporary encampment had existed, and had only been very recently and hastily
removed, he stopped, and looked earnestly around. The poles still stood erect which lied supported
the tents of the Nausetts; the fires were still burning; and many articles of domestic use
lay scattered about, which the hasty departure of the inhabitants had probably prevented their
removing.

Rudolph hurried through the camp in search of some sign of his son; and his eager eye fell
on the well-known tunic that Henrich was accustomed to wear. He snatched it up hastily; and
then, with a deep groan, let it fall again upon the ground. The breast of the tunic was pierced
through in several places, and the whole dress was stained with blood--blood that was newly shed.

Maitland pointed to this evidence of his son's death! and when the Sachem had examined it,
he set his teeth together, and drew in his breath with an oppressed, hissing sound, as of severe
pain.

'It is over, my friend,' he said, in a low deep voice to Rodolph--'it is over; and we are too
late. Naught now remains but to take revenge-- full, ample revenge. Let us follow the miscreants.'

Rudolph turned, and looked at him. He fixed on him such a searching gaze--a gaze so full of
gentle reproof and of deep settled grief-that the warm-hearted Chief stood silent, and almost
abashed before his Christian friend.

'Is it thus you have learned of Brewster?' said the sorrowing father. 'Is it thus that you
are taught in that book which the Great Spirit has dictated? The Father of us all has declared,
"vengeance is mine; I will repay "; and since we are too late to save my son, we will not commit
deeds of blood which his now happy and ransomed spirit would abhor.'

Mooanam was silenced, but not convinced. Inwardly he vowed vengeance against those who had
dealt so cruelly with the unoffending boy; though, under similar circumstances, he would probably
have acted with the same spirit. But the Chief bad allied himself with the white men. He loved
and reverenced them; and he was resolved to avenge the wrongs of Maitland, as if they had been
his own.

Sadly and silently the party returned to the Indian village, where they arrived at the break
of day. We will not attempt to describe the mother's anguish when she was made acquainted with
the dreaded fate of her son; but Helen was a Christian, and while her heart was bowed down
with crushing grief, her spirit strove to hush its rebellious questionings, and to submit itself
to the will of God.

'It is the Lord,' she meekly exclaimed: ‘let Him do what seemeth Him good!'

That morning she returned with her husband and Edith to the settlement; and they were accompanied
by Brewster, whose pious exhortations and sympathizing kindness were invaluable to the bereaved
and afflicted parents. The grief of Edith was less capable of being suppressed; and it broke
out afresh when little Ludovico came to meet them, and inquired for his brother. From the child
they learnt, that while he and Henrich were busily engaged in their several occupations in
the wood, two Indians had suddenly rushed from the thick brushwood, and seized on his brother
before he had time to fly. Ludovico was gathering moss at some distance, but he saw what passed,
and uttered a cry that attracted the attention of the savages; and one of them east a spear
at him with such violence, that, missing its intended mark, it stuck firmly in a tree close
behind him. Seeing this, his noble and courageous brother called out to him to hide among the
bushes, and make his way home as quickly as possible; and the Indians, eager to secure the
prize they had so long been watching for, hurried away through the forest, dragging Henrich
with them.

The murderous attempt made by these savages against the life of Ludovico proved but too clearly
that the destruction of Rodolph's children was their object, and banished every hope that lingered
in Helen's breast; and this conviction of their cruel intentions was still further confirmed
by Janet's account of the look and gesture of the warrior who attended his Chief when the Nausetts
first assailed the settlement. Rodolph had seen, and understood the action; and as he had also
learnt through his Wampanoge friends that Tekoa, the son of the Nausett Chief, had fallen in
the first encounter, he knew enough of Indian customs to be aware that he, as the slayer, was
a marked object of their vengeance. He had, however, always concealed his suspicions from Helen;
and the only effect they had produced on him was causing him, at that time, to prohibit his
children from venturing unguarded into the wood, more strictly than he would otherwise have done.

We will now, for a time, leave the settlement--where the sad news of the capture and supposed
death of Henrich had spread a general gloom and consternation--and follow the subject of their
pitying grief, from the time that he was seized and made a prisoner in the hands of the savages.
They did not slay him; for the Lord had work and service in store for the young missionary,
and he suffered not a hair of his head to be hurt.

Coubitant--for he was one of those whose patient vigilance had, at length, been crowned by
success--and his companion had hurried him at their greatest speed through the wood, to the
spot where their temporary camp was pitched, and where several others of their tribe awaited
their return.  A few minutes sufficed to remove the matting that formed their tents, and to
collect their arms and utensils; but Coubitant well knew that the child who had escaped his
cruelty would soon alarm the settlers, and that an instant pursuit would follow. He therefore,
devised plan to deceive, and, perhaps altogether to check the white men, at least for a time,
by making them believe that the death of the captive had already taken place. He would have
instantly gratified the feelings of his cruel and revengeful heart, and have shed the innocent
blood of Rodolph's son to atone for the death of his friend, but that he feared to disappoint
his Chief, who so earnestly desired to imbrue his own hands in the blood of the slayer. He,
therefore, resolved on the stratagem we have described. He stripped off the captive's tunic,
and, after piercing it several times with his dagger, he opened a vein in his own arm with
the same weapon, and let the hot blood flow freely over the torn vesture.

This done, he smiled a demon's smile, as he cast the tunic on the ground, and thought with
malignant pleasure of the anguish that its discovery would occasion to his hated foe.

Henrich gazed in trembling wonder at this act; and when Coubitant again approached him to bind
his hands, he believed that he was about to plunge that blood-stained knife into his beating
heart. He was young, and life was new and precious to him; and for a moment he shrank back,
while the blood curdled in his veins. But, young as he was, he was also a child of God; and
he knew that all events are governed by His Almighty power, and over-ruled by His wisdom and
love. So he was enabled to lift up his eyes and his trusting heart to heaven, and to await
his expected fate with calmness. Coubitant saw his firmness, and he wondered and admired. He
placed the dagger in his belt and hastily tying the captive's hands behind his back, he motioned
to his companions to follow, and struck into a narrow and almost undistinguishable path.

Forcing Henrich to go before him, while he held the rope of twisted grass that bound his hands
he followed close behind, and placed his foot in each print that the prisoner made, so as to
destroy the impression of the boy's European shoe. The other Indians did the same; as exactly
did they tread in one another's steps, that, when all had passed, it seemed as if only one
solitary traveler had left his track on the soft ground.

 Thus, 'in Indian file,' they traversed a belt of wood, till they came
out on a dry and sun-burnt plain, where their steps left no impression.
Coubitant then advanced to the side of his prisoner, and, taking his
arm in his powerful grasp, he compelled him to advance, at an almost
breathless speed, across the plain. In the wood, on the other side, he
allowed a short pause, and gave Henrich some water from a bottle made
of a dried gourd, which hung about his neck; and thus they traveled on,
with slight refreshment and little rest, until the sun arose in all his
splendor, and displayed to Henrich's admiring gaze the wild and
magnificent woodland scenery through which he was travelling.  Under
other circumstances, he would keenly have enjoyed the novelty and the
beauty of the objects that met his eyes, so different from the
luxuriant, but flat and monotonous fields, and gardens, and canals,
that he so well remembered in Holland. Here all was wild and varied;
and all was on a scale of grandeur that inspired him with a feeling of
awe and solemnity, heightened, no doubt, by the fearful uncertainty of
his fate, and the thought that, perhaps, this was the last time that he
should look upon these glorious hills, and ancient forests, and wide
rushing rivers--the handiworks, and the visible teachers of God's
power.  Something of American scenery he had become acquainted with in
his rambles round the Indian village, but only enough to make him long
to see more; and had he now been travelling by the side of his father,
or his friend Brewster, the elastic morning air, and the splendid and
ever-varying views, would have made his young heart bound with joy and
health.

 As it was, the silent beauty of nature was not without its influence on
the captive boy.  He seemed to feel more strongly the presence and the
goodness of his heavenly Father; and his young spirit was cheered to
endure his present desolate situation, and strengthened to meet
whatever future trials might await him.  He had learnt from Brewster to
make himself understood in the Wampanoge language, and he resolved to
try whether his Nausett guide would reply to his questions in that
tongue. He therefore besought him to tell him whither he was leading
him, and for what purpose.  But Coubitant deigned him no reply. He
understood him--for the Nausett language was but another dialect of the
Wampanoge--but he did not choose to inform the boy of his destination
at present, and he preserved a profound silence, and an expression of
sullen gravity.

It was not until the evening of the fourth day that the party reached the Nausett village,
which, as we have already observed, was situate near the site of the 'first encounter'; and
to which Tisquantum, and the greater part of his warriors had returned, when Coubitant and
a few picked associates were left to carry out his schemes of vengeance. Henrich was instantly
conducted to the lodge of the old Chief; and brightly did Tisquantum's dark eyes glitter when
he beheld the son of his enemy in his power.  He praised the skill and the perseverance by
which Coubitant had thus procured him the means of revenge; and, taking off his own brilliant
coronet of feathers, he placed it on the head of the proud and successful warrior, as a distinguished
mark of his approbation.

Coubitant was highly gratified; but his desire for vengeance was stronger than his vanity,
and forgetting the honor that had been conferred upon him, he entreated the Chief to allow
him instantly to drive his spear into the boy's heart, or else with his own weapon to take
the life of the slayer's child.

'Not yet!' replied Tisquantum--and Henrich comprehended the full purport of his words--'not
today, Coubitant.  I would pour out the blood of the white youth with pomp and ceremony, as
an offering to the spirit of my murdered son. Let the boy be fed and refreshed: tomorrow, at
break of day, he shall die.  Go. I have said it.'

'And will the Sachem give him into my charge until the morning dawns?' inquired Coubitant.

Tisquantum fixed his piercing eye on the savage, and read his malevolent feelings; and he calmly
answered, 'No: the victim shall bleed because his father's blood flows in his veins.  But he
shall not be tortured; for his was not the hand that deprived me of my son.  The boy shall
remain in my own lodge, and sleep securely for this night beneath the same roof that shelters
my last remaining child--my lovely Oriana.'

Had the Chief observed Henrich's changing countenance, he would have perceived that all he
said was understood by the intended sufferer. But he marked him not, and the boy commanded
himself, and kept silence, determined to await Coubitant's departure before he made one effort
to move the Chief to pity. He had, however, no opportunity of trying the effect of his earnest
appeal; for Tisquantum ordered one of his attendants to remove him at once to the inner division
of the lodge, and to secure him there for the night: and then, motioning Coubitant to retire,
and resuming his pipe, he proceeded to 'drink smoke,' as composedly as if his evening repose
had not been interrupted.

But, notwithstanding his outward composure, the Nausett chief was not unmoved by the event
that had just occurred. The sight of the son of him whose hand had slain his young Tekoa brought
back the image of his brave young warrior, as he stood beside him at the fatal burial-ground,
full of youthful ardor, to combat the invaders of his land, and the supposed enemies of his
race. He recalled his daring look as he mounted the palisade, and placed in his unerring bow
the arrow that wounded the English boy. And then he seemed to hear again the sharp report of
the white man's musket, and to behold once more the sudden fall of his son, bleeding and expiring,
to the ground.

Tisquantum thought on that hour of anguish, when his duties as a chief and a warrior had forbidden
all expression of his grief; and he thought of his return to his lodge, where only Oriana remained
to welcome him-- for the mother of his children, whom he had loved with unusual affection,
was dead--and tears gathered in the Sachem's eyes. Oriana had deeply mourned her brother's
death; for since she had lost her mother, she had been permitted to enjoy much more of his
society than had previously been allowed her; and her father, also, had seemed to transfer
to her much of the love that be had borne towards his wife. Now his daughter was his only domestic
tie; and his chief object in life was to give her in marriage to a warrior as brave as her
young brother, and who would supply to him the place of his departed son.

At present, this prospect was not immediate, for Oriana was only in her fourteenth year; but
the Sachem was resolved that she should be worthy of the hand of the greatest warriors of her
tribe, and he took pains to have her instructed in every art that was considered valuable or
ornamental to an Indian female. Already she could perform the most elaborate patterns in native
embroidery on her father's pouches and moccasins; and her own garments were also delicately
and fancifully adorned in the same manner, with feathers, and shells, and colored grasses.
Besides this accomplishment, her skill in Indian cookery was very great; and she could also
use a bow and arrows, or cast a light javelin, or swim across a rapid river, with a grace and
activity that delighted her proud father.

Oriana, too, was gentle--as gentle as her mother, and her influence over Tisquantum bade fair
to equal that which his much-cherished and deeply regretted wife had exercised over him.  That
influence had ever been employed in the cause of mercy! and many an enemy, and many a subject,
had lived to bless the name of the Squaw-Sachem Oriana, when she had quelled the wrath of the
offended Chief, and turned aside his intended vengeance.

It was to the inner apartment of his spacious lodge, where his daughter and her attendants
were busily engaged in their domestic occupations, that Henrich bad been led. His arms were
still tied behind his back, and the end of the rope that bound them was secured to a post in
the wall.  The Indian who, at his chief's command, conducted him thither, briefly informed
Oriana that he was a prisoner, and desired her women to look to his security: and then he left
the captive to his strange and inquisitive jailers.

When Tisquantum had emptied his long pipe, he bethought himself of the young captive's position,
and proceeded to his daughter's apartment to give orders for his hospitable entertainment that
evening, and his safe lodgment for the night--that night which he was resolved should be his
last. As he approached the thick curtain of deer-skins that hung over the aperture between
the two apartments, he thought he heard a strange sweet voice speaking the Indian language
with a foreign accent; and hastily drawing aside the heavy drapery, he was astonished to see
his prisoner, and intended victim, liberated from the cord that had bound him, and reclining
on the furs and cushions that formed Oriana's usual resting-place; while his gentle Indian
child knelt beside him, and offered him the food of which he was so much in need. Henrich was
gratefully thanking her; and as the Sachem entered, he heard him exclaim in mournful accents--

‘But why do you thus so kindly treat me? It were better to let me die of hunger and fatigue;
for I know that to-morrow my blood is to be shed: the cold knife is to pierce my heart.'

'It shall not be,' replied Oriana, fervently. 'I have said that I will save you.' And then
she raised her sparkling eyes as she heard her father's entrance; and springing on her feet,
she darted forward, and caught his arm.

'Father!' she cried--and now she spoke so rapidly and energetically, that Henrich could only
guess the purport of her words, and read it in her sweet expressive countenance--'Father! do
not slay the white boy. He says that he is doomed to die because his father caused my brother's
death. But surely Tekoa's generous spirit does not ask the blood of a child. My brother is
now happy in the great hunting grounds where our fathers dwell. He feels no wrath against his
slayer's son: he never would have sought revenge against an innocent boy. Give me the captive,
O my father! and let him grow up in our lodge, and be to me a playfellow and a brother.'

Tisquantum gazed at his child in wonder, and his countenance softened. She saw that he was
moved and hastily turning from him, she approached Henrich, who had risen from the couch, and
now stood an earnest spectator of the scene, on the issue of which his life or death, humanly
speaking, depended. She took his band, and led him to her father, and again pleaded earnestly
and passionately for his life; while the touching expression of his own deep blue eyes, and
the beauty of his fair young face, added greatly to the power of her appeal.

I have a little sister at home,' said Henrich--and the soft Indian language sounded sweetly
from his foreign lips--'and she will weep for me as Oriana has wept for her brother. Let me
return to Patupet, and she and my parents will bless you.'

At the mention of his parents, Tisquantum's brow grew dark again. He thought of Rodolph as
the destroyer of his son; and he turned away from the two youthful suppliants, whose silent
eloquence he felt he could not long resist.

'Your father killed my young Tekoa,' he replied.  'His fire weapon quenched the light of my
lodge, and took from me the support of my old age. Should I have pity on his son?'

'But let him dwell in our lodge, and fill my brother's vacant place!' exclaimed Oriana. 'Do
not send him back to the white men; and his father, and his mother, and his little sister will
still weep for him, and believe him dead.'

The same idea had crossed Tisquantum's breast.  He looked again at the boy, and thought how
much Oriana's life would be cheered by such a companion. His desire of revenge on Rodolph would
also be gratified by detaining his child, and bringing him up as an Indian, so long as his
parents believed that he had met with a bloody death; and, possibly, he felt a time might come
when the possession of an English captive might prove advantageous to himself and his tribe.
All fear of the boy's escaping to his friends was removed from his mind; for he was about to
retire from that part of the country to a wild district far to the west, and to join his allies,
the Pequodees, in a hunting expedition to some distant prairies. The portion of his tribe over
which he was Sachem, or chief, was willing to accompany him; and he had no intention of returning
again to the neighborhood of the English intruders, who, he clearly foresaw, would ere long
make themselves masters of the soil; and who had already secured to themselves such powerful
allies in the Wampanoges--the enemies and rivals of the Nausetts.

Tisquantum weighed all these considerations in his mind; and he resolved to spare the life
of his young captive. But he would not at once announce that he had relented from his bloody
purpose, and yielded to his child's solicitations. He therefore maintained the severe gravity
that usually marked his countenance, and replied--

'But what can the white boy do, that he should fill the place of an Indian chieftain's son?
Can he cast the spear, or draw the bow, or wrestle with our brave youths?’

Reviving hope had filled the heart of Henrich with courage, and he looked boldly up into the
Sachem's face, and merely answered, 'Try me.'

The brevity and the calmness of the reply pleased the red Chief, and he determined to take
him at his word.

'I will,' he said. 'To-morrow you shall show what skill you possess, and your fate shall depend
on your success. But how have you learned anything of Indian sports, or of the Indian tongue?'

'I have been much in Mooanam's lodge, and have played with the youths of his village,' replied
Henrich; 'and the Sachem was well pleased to see me use a bow and arrow in his woods. And from
him, and my young companions, I learnt to speak their tongue.'

'It is good,' said the old Chief, thoughtfully. Then, fixing his penetrating eyes on Henrich
again, he hastily inquired: 'And can you use the fire-breathing weapons of your countrymen?
and can you teach me to make them?

'I can use them,' answered the boy; 'but I cannot make them. They come from my father's land,
beyond the great sea.  But,' he added--while a stronger hope of life and liberty beamed in
his bright blue eye and flushing face--'send me back to my countrymen, and they will give you
muskets for my ransom.'

'No, no!' said the Sachem: and the dark cloud again passed over his countenance. 'Never will
I restore you to your father, till he can give me back my son. You shall live, if you can use
our Indian weapons; but you shall live and die as an Indian.'

He turned and left the apartment; and the heart of Henrich sank within him. Was he then taken
for ever from his parents, and his brother, and sister?  Should he behold his friends, and
his teacher, no more? And must he dwell with savages, and lead a savage life? Death, he thought,
would be preferable to such a lot; and he half resolved to conceal his skill and dexterity
in Indian exercises, that Tisquantum might cast him off and slay him, as unfit to dwell among
his tribe. But hope soon revived; and his trust in the providential mercy of God restored his
spirits, and enabled him even to look upon a lengthened captivity among the red men with composure.
Plans for escaping out of their hands, and making his way back to the settlement, filled his
mind; and a short residence among the wild men even appeared to offer some attraction to his
enterprising spirit.  So he turned to Oriana, who stood gazing on his changing and expressive
countenance with the deepest interest, and again resumed the conversation which had been interrupted
by the entrance of the Chief.

Many questions did those young strangers ask each other relative to their respective homes,
and native customs; and Henrich learnt, with much dismay, that the Nausetts under Tisquantum's
rule were so soon to change their place of residence. His hopes of escape became less strong,
but they were not destroyed: and when he was summoned to pass the night in the Sachem's apartment,
he was able to lift up his heart to God in prayer, and to lie down to sleep on the rude couch
prepared for him, with a calm trust in His Almighty power and goodness, and a hope that He
would see fit to shorten his trials, and restore him to his friends.

The Chief watched him as he knelt in prayer; and when he rose, and prepared to lie down to
sleep, he abruptly asked him why he had thus remained on his knees so long?

'I was praying to my God to protect me,' answered Henrich; and a tear rose to his eye, as he
remembered how he had knelt every evening with his own beloved family; and thought how his
absence, and their probable belief in his death, would sadden the act of worship that would
that night be performed in his father's house.

'Do you pray to the Great Spirit?' asked Tisquantum.

'I do!' replied the young Christian. 'I pray to the Great Spirit, who is the God and Father
of all men; and I pray to his Son Jesus Christ, who is the friend and Savior of all who love him.'

'It is good!' said the Chief. 'We know the Great Spirit; but we know nothing of the other gods
of the white men. Sleep now; for your strength and activity will be tried to-morrow.' And Henrich
lay down, and slept long and peacefully.

He was awakened the next morning by the gentle voice of Oriana, who stood beside him, and said,
'You must rise now, and eat with me, before you go out to try your strength and skill. Come
to my apartment.'

Henrich opened his eyes, and gazed around him in wonder. But quickly the whole sad reality
of his situation came over him, and he felt that he must nerve himself for the coming trial.
Soon he followed Oriana to her inner room, where a slight Indian repast of maize and fruits
had been prepared by the young Squaw-Sachem and her attendants. Tisquantum had left the lodge,
and was now occupied in preparing a spot for the exercise of the white boy's skill. At his
side stood Coubitant, silent and gloomy. His indignation at the Chief's merciful intentions
towards the intended victim was great; and strongly had he urged him to the immediate slaughter
of the captive.  But Tisquantum was not to be lightly moved, either to good or evil. He had
said that the boy should live, if he proved himself worthy to bear Indian arms, and all the
cruel suggestions and arguments that Coubitant could bring forward only made him more resolved
to keep his word.

The young savage then forbore to speak, for he saw that it was useless, and he feared to displease
his Chief, whose favor was the highest object of his ambition.  Since the untimely death of
his son, Coubitant had been constantly his companion and attendant, until he had been left
near the English settlement to carry out his schemes of revenge. His success in this enterprise
a raised him still higher in Tisquantum's estimation; and visions of becoming the son-in-law
of the Chief, and eventually succeeding him in his office, already floated in the brain of
Coubitant. In a few years, Oriana's hand would be given to some fortunate warrior; and who
could have so strong a claim to it as the man who had risked his own life to procure vengeance
for her brother's death? Therefore Coubitant held his peace, and checked the expression of
his deadly and malignant feelings towards the young prisoner.

Soon Henrich was summoned to the ground where his fate was to be decided, and he was directed
to try his powers with several Indian boys of his own age. In shooting with the bow and arrow,
he could not, by any means, rival their skill and accuracy of aim; but in casting the spear,
and wielding the tomahawk, he showed himself their equal; and when he was made to wrestle with
his swarthy and half-naked competitors, the superior height and muscular powers of the British
lad enabled him to gain the victory in almost every instance.

Tisquantum was satisfied. He pronounced him worthy to live; and, notwithstanding the opposition
of Coubitant, which was once more cautiously manifested, he presented Henrich with the arms
that he knew so well how to use, and informed him that he should henceforth dwell in his lodge
among his braves, and should no more inhabit the apartments of the women.  To a young and generous
mind success and approbation are always grateful; and Henrich's eye kindled, and his cheek
burned, as he listened to the praises of the Chief, and felt that he owed his life, under Providence,
to his own efforts. And when his little friend Oriana came bounding up to him, with joy and
exultation in her intelligent countenance, and playfully flung a wreath of flowers across his
shoulders in token of victory, he felt that even among these children of the wilderness--these
dreaded Nausett Indians--he could find something to love.

In Coubitant, he instinctively felt that he had also something to dread; but the savage tried
to conceal his feeling and even to please the Chief and Oriana, by pretending an interest in
their young favorite, which for a long time deceived them as to his real sentiments. The bustle
of preparation for the intended removal of the encampment began that day--for Tisquantum was
now more eager than ever to get beyond the reach of the settlers--and before sunset all was
ready. The next morning the march commenced at daybreak, and continued for many days uninterruptedly,
until the Chief and his followers reached the residence of his Pequodee allies, when he considered
himself safe from pursuit, even if the settlers should attempt it.  He therefore halted his
party, and took up his abode among his friends, to wait until they were prepared to set out
on their hunting expedition to the western prairies. A period of repose was also very needful
for the women and children, for the march had been a most fatiguing one. Not only had the Sachem
dreaded the pursuit of the injured settlers, and therefore hurried his party to their utmost
speed; but the country through which they had traveled was inhabited by the Narragansett tribe,
the ancient and hereditary foes of the Pequodees.  It was, consequently, desirable for the
Nausetts, as allies of the latter, to spend as little time as possible in the territories of
their enemies; and little rest ad been permitted to the travelers until they had passed the
boundary of the friendly Pequodees.

CHAPTER VI.

‘The woods—oh! solemn are the boundless woods;
     Of the great western world, when day declines,
And louder sounds the roll of distant floods,
     More deep the rustling of the ancient pines;
When dimness gathers on the stilly air,
     And mystery seems o'er every leaf to brood,
Awful is it for human heart to bear
     The might and burden of the solitude!'    HEMANS.

Many weeks elapsed after the Nausett party had joined the friendly Pequodees, ere any preparations
were made for journeying to the west; and these days were chiefly employed by Henrich in improving
his knowledge of the Indian language, and especially of the Nausett dialect, by conversing
with Oriana and her young companions, both male and female.  He also endeavored to learn as
much as possible of the habit and the ideas of the simple people among whom his lot was now
cast; for he hoped, at some future time, when he had succeeded in returning to his own countrymen,
that such a knowledge might prove useful both to himself and them.

He was treated with much kindness by Tisquantum; and his favor with the Chief ensured the respect
and attention of all his dependants and followers. From the day that the white boy had been
spared from a cruel and violent death, and established as a regular inmate of Tisquantum's
dwelling, it seemed as if he had regarded him as a son, and had adopted him to fill the place
of him whose death he so deeply deplored; and Oriana already looked on him as a brother, and
took the greatest delight in his society. No apprehensions were now felt of his escaping to
the settlement; for the distance which they had traveled through woods, and over hills and
plains, to reach the Pequodee encampment, was so great, that it was utterly impossible for
any one but an Indian, well accustomed to the country, to traverse it alone. Henrich was, therefore,
allowed to enjoy perfect liberty, and to ramble unmolested around the camp; and it was his
greatest pleasure to climb to the summit of a neighboring hill, which was crowned by a few
ancient and majestic pines, and there to look in wonder and admiration at the scenery around
him. To the west, a vast and trackless forest spread as far as the eye could reach, unbroken
save by some distant lakes, that shone like clear mirrors in their dark green setting. Trees
of gigantic growth rose high above their brethren of the wood, but wild luxuriant creepers,
many of them bearing clusters of bright blossoms, had climbed ambitiously to their summits,
seeking the light of day, and the warmth of the sunbeams, which could not penetrate the thick
underwood that was their birth-place. It was a sea of varied and undulating foliage, beautiful
and striking, but almost oppressive to the spirit; and Henrich gazed sadly over the interminable
forest, and thought of the weeks, and months--and, possibly, the years that this wilderness
was to be his home. Escape, under present circumstances, he felt to be impossible; and he endeavored
to reconcile himself to his fate, and to look forward with hope to a dim and uncertain future.
Could his parents and Edith but have been assured of his safety, he thought he could have borne
his captivity more cheerfully; but to feel that they were mourning him as dead, and that, perhaps,
they would never know that his blood had not been cruelly shed by his captors, was hard for
the affectionate boy to endure.

To Oriana, alone, could he tell his feelings, and pour out his griefs and anxieties; and Edith
herself could not have listened to him with more attention and sympathy than was shown by the
young Indian girl. When her domestic duties were accomplished, she would accompany her new
friend to his favorite retreat on the hill-top; and there, seated by his side beneath the tall
pines, she would hold his hand, and gaze into his sorrowful countenance, and listen to his
fond regrets for his distant home, and all its dearly-loved inmates, till tears would gather
in her soft black eyes, and she almost wished that she could restore him to his countrymen.
But this she was powerless to do, even if she could have made up her mind to the sacrifice
of her 'white brother,' as she called him. She had, indeed, wrought upon her father so far
as to save his life, and have him adopted into their tribe and family; but she well knew that
nothing would ever induce him to give up his possession of Rodolph's son, or suffer his parents
to know that he lived.

All this she told to Henrich; and his spirit, sanguine as it was, sickened at the prospect
of a lengthened captivity among uncivilized and heathen beings. He gazed mournfully to the
east; he looked over the wide expanse of country that he had lately traversed, and his eye
seemed to pierce the rising hills, and lofty forests, that lay between him and his cherished
home; and in the words of the Psalmist he cried, 'Oh that I had wings as a dove, for then would
I flee away and be at rest!'

Would you leave me, my brother?' said Oriana, in reply to this unconscious utterance of his
feelings; 'would you leave me again alone, to mourn the brother I have lost?' The Sachem loves
you, and I love you, too; and you may be happy in our lodge, and become a brave like our young
men.'

‘Yes, Oriana, you and your father are kind to me; and I had never known any other mode of life,
I might be happy in your lodge. But I cannot forget my parents, and me dear Edith who loved
me so fondly, and my little brother also. And then I had a friend--a kind friend, and full
of wisdom and goodness--who used to teach me all kinds of knowledge; and, above all, the knowledge
of the way to heaven. How can I think that I may, perhaps, never see all these again, and not
be sad?' And Henrich buried his face in his hands and wept without restraint.

Oriana gazed at him affectionately, and tears of sympathy filled her large eyes also. But she
drew away Henrich’s hand, and kissed it, and tried to cheer him in the best way that her simple
mind could suggest.

'My brother must not weep,' she said; 'for he is not a child, and our Indian youths are ashamed
of tears. Henrich will be a brave some day, and he will delight in hunting, and in war, as
our red warriors do; and he will, I know, excel them all in strength and courage. What can
he desire more than to be a Nausett warrior?'

'Oh, Oriana,' replied the boy--as he wiped away his tears, and almost smiled at her attempts
to console him by such a future prospect--' I desire to return to my home, and my friends,
and the worship of my God. Among your people none know anything of the true God, and none believe
in His Son. I have no one to speak to me as my parents, and my venerable teacher, used to do;
and no one to kneel with me in prayer to the Almighty.'

'Do not you worship the Great Mahneto--the Mighty Spirit from whom every good gift comes?'
asked Oriana, with surprise. 'He is the one true God, and all the red men know and worship him.'

'Yes, Oriana, I do worship the one Great Spirit; the God and Father of all men of every color
and of every clime. But the Christian's God is far more wise, and good, and merciful than the
Indian's Mahneto: and He has told his servants what He is, and how they ought to serve Him.'

'Does your Mahneto speak to you?' asked the Indian girl. 'Could I hear him speak?'

'He has spoken to our fathers long ages ago,’ replied Henrich; 'and we have His words written
in a book. Oh, that I had that blessed book with me! How it would comfort me to read it now!'

'And you would read it to me, my brother? But tell me some of your Mahneto's words; and tell
me why you say He is greater and better than the Good Spirit who protects the red men.'

'I will gladly tell you all I know of the God whom I have been taught to love and worship ever
since I was a little child. I wish I could make you love Him too, Oriana, and teach you to
pray to Him, and to believe in His Son as your friend and Savior.'

'I will believe all you tell me, dear Henrich,' answered the ingenuous girl; 'for I am sure
you would never say the thing that is not.[*] But what do you mean by a Savior? Is it some
one who will save you from the power of the evil spirit Hobbamock--the enemy of the red men?'

[Footnote: The Indian expression for speaking a falsehood.]

Then Henrich told her of Jesus the Merciful--Him who came to save a world that was lost and
ruined through sin; and to die for those who deserve nothing but wrath and condemnation. Long
the youthful teacher and his attentive pupil conversed; and many and strange were the questions
that Oriana asked, and that Henrich was enabled, by the help of the Spirit, to answer. The
dark searching eyes of the intelligent young Indian were fixed on his, and her glossy black
hair was thrown back over her shoulders, while she listened in wonder and admiration to every
word that fell from the lips of her' white brother.'

That evening, a new and awakening source of interest was opened to the young captive, and the
dreariness of his life seemed almost to have passed away. The affection of Oriana had hitherto
been his only solace and comfort, and now the hope of repaying that affection by becoming the
humble means of leading her out of the darkness of heathenism, and pointing out to her the
way of eternal salvation, raised his spirits, and almost reconciled him to his present banishment
from home, and all its cherished joys and comforts.

More deeply than ever did he now regret that he was deprived of all access to the Word of Life,
from which he might have read and translated the story of mercy to his young disciple, and
have taught her the gracious promises of God. But Henrich had been well taught at home; his
truly pious parents had early stored his mind with numerous passages of Scripture; and the
effort he now made to recall to his memory all the most interesting stories, and most striking
texts, that he had learnt from the Word of God, was the means of fixing them indelibly on his
own heart. He never in after life forgot what he now taught to Oriana. The instruction was,
as is generally the case, quite as much blessed to the teacher as to the learner; and Henrich
was himself surprised to find how readily he could call to mind the very passage he wanted;
and how easily he could convey its import to Oriana in her own melodious language.

Frequently were these interesting conversations renewed, and never without Henrich's perceiving,
with thankfulness, that Oriana was making progress in spiritual knowledge, and also in quickness
of understanding and general intelligence; for it may truly be said, that no kind of learning
awakens the dormant powers of the intellect, or quickens the growth of the mind so effectually,
as the knowledge of the one true God, who created the spirit, and of his Son who died to redeem
it from the ignominious and degrading bondage, of sin and Satan. Henrich had, at first, imagined
that it would be utterly impossible for him to find an intelligent companion among the savage
race into whose hands he bad fallen and he had deeply felt that sense of loneliness which a
cultivated mind, however young, must experience in the society of those whose ideas and feelings
are altogether beneath its own, and who can in no way sympathize with any of its hopes, and
fears, and aspirations. But now the well-informed English boy began to perceive that the superiority
of the white men over the dark aborigines of America might, possibly, arise much more from
difference of education, than from difference of race and color. He remembered, also, how ardently
he had desired to share with the pious Brewster and Winslow, in their projected plans for the
conversion of the natives; and he hoped that, young and comparatively ignorant as he knew himself
to be, it might, perhaps, please God to make him the instrument of bestowing spiritual blessings
on some, at least, of the heathen among whom he dwelt. He, therefore, resolved to employ all
'his powers of argument and persuasion to convince the mind, and touch the heart of the young
Squaw-Sachem; not only for the sake of her own immortal soul, but also in the hope that her
influence, if she became a sincere Christian, might greatly tend to the conversion of her father
and his tribe.

Since the night when Tisquantum had seen his young captive kneel in prayer, and had questioned
him as to the object of his worship, he had never spoken to him on the subject of his religion;
and, Henrich had feared to address the stern old Chief, or to introduce a theme which, though
constantly present to his own mind, and the source of all his consolation, would, probably,
he rejected with scorn and contempt by the Sachem.

The more the Christian boy became acquainted with the character of Tisquantum, the stronger
became this fear, and the more he despaired of any influence proving sufficiently strong to
break the chains of error and superstition that bound him to heathenism. The Chief was a distinguished
Powow, or conjuror; and was regarded by his own people, and even by many other tribes, as possessing
great super natural powers.  His pretensions were great, and fully accredited by his subjects,
who believed that he could control the power of the subordinate evil spirits, and even exercise
a certain influence on Hobbamock himself. He was called a Mahneto, or priest; as being the
servant or deputy of the Great Mahneto, and permitted by him to cure diseases by a word or
a charm, to bring down rain on the thirsty land, and to foretell the issue of events, such
as the results of wars or negotiations. The influence which these acknowledged powers gave
him over other tribes besides his own was very gratifying to his pride and ambition; and could
Henrich hope that he, a young and inexperienced boy, could have wisdom or eloquence sufficient
to 'bring down the high thoughts' that exalted him, and to persuade him to 'become a disciple
of the meek and lowly Jesus? No; he knew that such a hope was, humanly speaking, vain: but
he knew, also, that 'with God all things are possible'; and he ceased not to pray that the
Spirit of light and truth might enter the soul of the heathen Chief, and banish the spirit
of evil that now reigned so triumphantly there.

Henrich's desire to see the Sachem become a Christian was increased in the same measure that
his hope of its accomplishment became less; for the more intimately he became acquainted with
him, the more he found in his natural character that was interesting, and even estimable. Tisquantum
was brave; and he was also generous and sincere, far beyond the generality of his race. We
have said that the influence of his wife, whom he had, loved to an unusual degree for an Indian,
had tended to soften his temper and disposition; and his regret for her loss, and his anxiety
that his only daughter should resemble her, had made him more domestic in his habits than most
of his brother chiefs. He was kind, also, when not roused to harshness and cruelty by either
revenge or superstition; and he was capable of strong attachments where he had once taken a
prepossession in favor of any individual.

Such a prepossession he had formed for his English captive on the evening when his child had
pleaded for his life, and when his own ingenuous and beautiful countenance had joined so eloquently
in her supplications. No insidious efforts of the wily Coubitant had availed to change the
Sachem's sentiments; and he continued to treat Henrich as an adopted son, and to allow him
all the privileges and indulgences that had once been bestowed on his beloved Tekoa. The white
boy was permitted to enjoy full and unrestricted liberty, now that he was beyond all possible
reach of his countrymen. He was encouraged to hunt, and sport, and practice all athletic games
and exercises with the Nausett and Pequodee youths; and he was presented with such of the arms
and ornaments of the lost Tekoa as were deemed suitable to his use, and his unusually tall
and muscular figure.

Often when adorned with these strange and curious specimens of Indian art and ingenuity, did
Haunch smile to think how Edith and Ludovico would wonder and admire if they could see him
thus attired: and then he would sigh as he remembered that months and years must probably elapse--and
possibly even his life might come to an end--ere he could hope to see their loved countenances,
or to excite their surprise and interest by a relation of all his perils and adventures. To
Oriana, alone, could he unburden his mind on such subjects; and from her he always met with
deep attention and heartfelt sympathy; but every day she felt his presence to be more necessary
to her happiness, and her dread of his escaping to his own people to become greater. Not only
did she shrink from the idea of parting with her 'white brother '--her newly-found and delightful
friend and companion--but daily, as she grew in the knowledge of Henrich's religion, and learnt
to know and love the Christian's God and Savior more sincerely, did she fear the possibility
of losing her zealous young teacher, and being deprived of all intercourse with the only civilized
and enlightened being whom she had ever known.

She therefore rejoiced when the time arrived for leaving the Pequodee village, and pursuing
the intended route to the west; for in spite of the distance and the many difficulties and
obstacles that divided Henrich from the British settlement, she had lived in continual fear
and expectation of either seeing a band of the mighty strangers come to demand his restitution,
or revenge his supposed death; or else of his escaping from the camp, and braving every danger,
in the attempt to return to his happy Christian home. Henrich often assured her with sincerity
that he had no idea of venturing on so hopeless an attempt; but whenever the Indian girl saw
his eyes fixed sadly on the eastern horizon, and dimmed, as they often were, by tears of sad
remembrance, she felt her fears again arise, and longed more earnestly to leave the spot, and
plunge into the trackless forest that lay between the Pequodee encampment and she proposed
hunting grounds.

The summer had passed away and autumn was beginning to tinge the varied foliage of the forest
with all its gaudy hues of yellow, and scarlet, and purple, when the Nausetts, and such of
their Pequodee friends as desired to share in their hunting expedition, set forth from the
village. Many women and girls accompanied the caravan, the greater part on foot, and bearing
on their shoulders either the younger children, or a large pack of baggage; while their husbands,
and fathers, and brothers, marched before them, encumbered only with their arms and hunting
accoutrements. Such was, and still is, the custom among the uncivilized tribes of America,
where women have ever been regarded as being very little more exulted than the beasts that
perish, and have been accustomed to meet with scarcely more attention and respect. But there
are exceptions to this, as to every other rule; and where women have possessed unusual strength
of mind, or powers of influence, their condition has been proportionately better. Such had
been the ease with Tisquantum's wife: and he had ever treated her with gentleness and respect,
and had never imposed on her any of those servile duties that commonly fall to the lot of Indian
squaws, even though they may be the wives and daughters of the most exalted chiefs. To his
daughter the Sachem was equally considerate, and none but the lightest toils of domestic Indian
life were ever required from her; nor was any burden more weighty than her own bow and quiver
ever laid upon her slender and graceful shoulders, when she followed her father in his frequent
wanderings.

On the present occasion, as the journey promised to be unusually long and uninterrupted, Tisquantum
obtained for her a small and active horse of the wild breed, that abounds in the western woods
and plains; and of which valuable animals the Pequodees possessed a moderate number, which
they had procured by barter from the neighboring Cree Indians. The purchase of this steed gave
Henrich the first opportunity of remarking the Indian mode of buying and selling, and the article
that formed their medium of commerce, and was employed as money. This consisted of square and
highly-polished pieces of a peculiar kind of a peculiar muscle-shell, called quahock, in each
of which a hole was bored, to enable it to be strung on a slender cord. The general name for
this native money was wampum, or white, from the color of those shells most esteemed; but a
dark-colored species was called luki, or black; and both were used, of various forms and sizes,
as ornaments by the warriors, and their copper-colored wives and children.

Several strings of wampum, both white and purple, were silently offered by the Sachem for the
horse which he selected as most suitable for his daughter's use, and, after a pause, were as
silently rejected by the possessor. Another pause ensued; and Tisquantum added a fresh string
of the precious shell to the small heap that lay before him; and the same scene was repeated,
until the owner of the horse was satisfied, when he placed the halter in the hands of the purchaser,
gathered up his treasure, and, with a look of mournful affection at the faithful creature whom
he was resigning to the power of another master, hurried away to his wigwam.

The next day the march began; and proud and happy was Oriana as she closely followed her father's
steps, mounted on her new palfrey, and led by her adopted brother; while by her side bounded
a favorite young dog, of the celebrated breed now called Newfoundland, which had been given
to her brother as a puppy just before his melancholy death, and had been her only playfellow
and loved companion, until Henrich had arrived to rival the faithful creature in her affections.
At his request, the dog received the name of Rodolph, in memory of his father; and Henrich
was never tired of caressing him, and teaching him to fetch and carry, and to plunge into his
favorite element, and bring from the foamy torrent, or the placid lake, any object which he
directed him to seize.  He was a noble fellow, and returned the care and kindness of his new
friend with all the ardor and faithfulness of his nature. It was his duty to accompany Henrich
in all his expeditions in pursuit of game, and to bring to his feet every bird, or small animal,
that his increasing skill in archery enabled him to pierce with his light and bone-pointed arrows.

During his residence in the Pequodee village, he had generally gone on such expeditions in
company with several other men and boys; and Oriana had, consequently, enjoyed little opportunity
of perceiving how much he had improved in dexterity since he had made his first trial before
his captors.  But now, as they traversed the woods together, he frequently aimed, at her desire,
at some brilliant bird, or bounding squirrel; and the young maiden exulted at his success,
and at the sagacity and obedience of Rodolph in bringing her the game.

The constant occupation, and the change of scene that Henrich enjoyed during this journey,
tended greatly to raise his spirits, and even to reconcile him to his new mode of life. He
did not forget his friends and his home--he did not even cease to think of them with the same
regret and affection; but it was with softened feelings, and with a settled hope of eventually
returning to them after a certain period of wandering and adventure. The kind of life which
he had often longed to try was now his lot, and he enjoyed it under, peculiarly favorable circumstances;
for he partook of its wildness and excitement, without enduring any of its hardships.  No wonder,
then, that a high-spirited and active-minded youth of Henrich's age, should often forget that
his wanderings were compulsory; and should feel cheerful, and even exhilarated, as he roamed
through the boundless primeval forests, or crossed the summits of the ranges of lofty hills
that occasionally lifted their barren crags above the otherwise unbroken sea of foliage.

Pitching the camp for the night was always a season of excitement and pleasure to the young
traveler, and his lively companion, Oriana. The selection of an open glade, and the procuring
wood and water, and erecting temporary huts, were all delightful from their novelty. And, then,
when all was done, and fires were kindled, and the frugal evening meal was finished, it was
pleasant to sit with Oriana beneath the lofty trees, whose smooth straight trunks rose like
stately columns, and to watch the glancing beams of the setting sun as they shone on the varied
foliage now tinted with all the hues of autumn, and listen to the sighing of the evening breeze,
that made solemn music while it swept through the forest. These were happy and tranquil hours;
for then Henrich would resume the interesting topics to which his dusky pupil was never weary
of listening. He would tell her--but no longer with tears--of his home, and all its occupations
and joys; he would repeat the holy instructions that he had himself received; and, when far
removed from the observation of other eyes and ears, he would teach her to kneel by his side,
as Edith used to do, and to join him in supplications to 'the High and Lofty One that inhabiteth
eternity'; but who yet listens to the humblest prayers that are addressed to Him in sincerity,
and hears every petition that is offered up in the name of His beloved Son.

The heart of Oriana was touched; and with a beautiful child-like simplicity, she received all
the blessed truths that her 'white brother' taught her.  Her affections were strongly drawn
towards the character of Jesus the Merciful, as she always called the Savior; and she became
sensitively alive to the guilt of every sin, as showing ingratitude to the Benefactor who had
laid down His life for His creatures.  Oriana was, in fact, a Christian--a young and a weak
one, it is true: but she possessed that faith which alone can constitute any one 'a branch
in the true vine’; and Henrich now felt that lie had found a sister indeed.

As the young Indian grew in grace, she grew also in sweetness of manner and refinement of taste
and behavior. She was no longer a savage, either in mind or in conduct; and Henrich often looked
at her in wonder and admiration, when she had made her simple toilette by the side of a clear
stream, and had decked her glossy raven hair with one of the magnificent water lilies that
be had gathered for her on its brink: and he wished that his mother and his fair young sister
could behold his little Indian beauty, for he knew that they would love her, and would forget
that she had a dusky skin, and was born of a savage and heathen race.

CHAPTER VII.

'We saw thee, O stranger, and wept! We looked for the youth of the sunny glance, Whose step
was the fleetest in chase or dance! The light of his eye was a joy to see; The path of his
arrows a storm to flee! But there came a voice from a distant shore; He was call'd—he his found
'midst his tribe no more! He is not in his place when the night fire, burn; But we look for
him still--he will yet return! His brother sat with a drooping brow, In the gloom of the shadowing
cypress bough. We roused him--we bade him no longer pine; For we heard a step--but that step
was thine.'    HEMANS.

'What was that cry of joy, Oriana?' exclaimed Henrich, as one evening during their journey,
he and his companion had strayed a little from their party, who were seeking a resting-place
for the night.  'What was that cry of joy: and who is this Indian youth who has sprung from
the ground so eagerly, and is now hurrying towards us from that group of overhanging trees?
Is he a friend of yours?'

‘I know him not!’ replied Oriana. 'I never passed through this forest before: but I have heard
that it is inhabited by the Crees. They are friendly to our allies, the Pequodees, so we need
not fear to meet them.'

As she spoke, the young stranger rapidly approached them, with an expression of hope and expectation
on his animated countenance; but this changed as quickly to a look of deep despondence and
grief, when he had advanced within a few paces, and fixed his searching eyes en Henrich's face.

'No!' he murmured, in a low and mournful voice, and clasping his hands in bitterness of disappointment.'No;
it is not Uncas. It is not my brother of the fleet foot, and the steady hand. Why does he yet
tarry so long? Four moons have come, and have waned away again, since he began his journey
to the land of spirits; and I have sat by his grave, and supplied him with food and water,
and watched and wept for his return; and yet he does not come. O, Uncas, my brother! when shall
I hear thy step, and see thy bright glancing eye?  I will go back, and wait, and hope again.'

And the young Indian turned away, too much absorbed in his own feelings to take any further
notice of Henrich and Oriana, who, both surprised and affected at his words and manner, followed
him silently.  Several other Indians of the Cree tribe now made their appearance among the
trees, and hastened towards the travelers. But a look of disappointment was visible on every
countenance: and the young travelers wondered greatly.[1 and 2]

[Footnote 1: 'J'ai passé moi-même chez une peuplade Indienne, qui se prenaît a pleurer à la
vue d'un voyageur, parce qu'il lui rappelait des amis partis pour la contrée des Ames, et depuis
long-temps en voyage.’ --CHATEAUBRIAND.]

[Footnote 2: 'They fancy their deceased friends and relatives to be only gone on a journey;
and, being in constant expectation of their return, look for them vainly amongst foreign travelers.’--PICART.]

But, though evidently grieved at not meeting the being they looked for so earnestly, the elder
Crees did not forget the duties of hospitality. With simple courtesy they invited Henrich and
his companion to accompany them to their wigwams, which were situated in a beautiful glade
close by, and were only concealed by the luxuriant growth of underwood, that formed a sort
of verdant and flowering screen around them. The invitation was gratefully accepted; for the
countenances of the Crees inspired confidence, and Oriana knew that her father intended to
visit a settlement of these friendly people, in the district they were now traversing. She
also felt her curiosity strongly excited by what had just occurred, and she longed for an explanation
of the conduct of the interesting young savage who had first accosted them.

She therefore requested one of their new acquaintances to go in search of the main body of
their party, and to inform the Sachem that she and Henrich had preceded them to the wigwams;
and then--with a dignity and composure that were astonishing in one so young and accustomed
to so wild a life--she guided her palfrey into the narrow path that wound through the undergrowth
of evergreens, while Henrich walked by her side, and Rodolph bounded before her.

They came to the spot where the young Indian sat by a grave; and tears were falling from his
eyes as he gazed at the grass-covered mound, around which wore arranged several highly-carved
and ornamented weapons, and articles of attire; and also a small quantity of firewood, and
food, and tobacco, intended for the use of the departed on his long journey to the land of
spirits. This is a well-known custom of most of the North American tribes; but the Crees have
several superstitions peculiar to themselves, especially that melancholy one to which we have
just alluded, and which subjects them to such lengthened sorrow and disappointment; for they
watch and look for the return of their lost and lamented friends, who can never come again
to gladden their eyes on earth. O that they were taught to place their hopes of a blessed reunion
with those they love on the only sure foundation for such hopes--even on Him who is 'the Resurrection
and the Life!’ Then they need never be disappointed.

It was this strange expectation of the reappearance, in human form, of the lately dead, that
occasioned the incident we have just related. An epidemic disease had been prevalent in the
Cree village; and, among those who had fallen victims to it, Uncas, the eldest orphan son of
the principal man of the village, was the most deeply regretted, and his return was the most
anxiously desired.

Especially was this vain hope cherished by his younger brother Jyanough, to whom he had been
an object of the fondest love and most unbounded admiration; and who daily, as the evening
closed, took fresh food and water to the grave, and sat there till night closed in, calling
on Uncas, and listening for his coming footsteps. Then he retired sadly to his wigwam, to lament
his brother's continued absence, and to hope for better success the following evening. During
each night the dogs of the village, or the wild animals of the forest, devoured the food designed
for Uncas; but Jyanough believed it had been used by his brother's spirit, and continued still
to renew the store, and to hope that, at length, the departed would show himself, and would
return to dwell in his wigwam.

When Haunch approached the grave, leading Oriana's pony, the mourner looked up, and gazed in
his face again with that sad and inquiring look. But now it did not change to disappointment,
for he knew that the stranger was not Uncas. There was even pleasure in his countenance as
the clear glance of the English boy's deep blue eye met his own; and he rose from his seat
at the head of the grave, and, going up to Henrich, gently took his hand, and said--

'Will the white stranger be Jyanough's brother? His step is free, and his eyes are bright,
and his glance goes deep into Jyanough's heart. Will the pale-face be the friend of him who
has now no friend; for four moons are guile and Uncas does not answer to my call?'

Henrich and Jyanough were strangers: they were altogether different in race, in education,
and in their mode of thinking and feeling. Yet there was one ground of sympathy between them,
of which the young Indian seemed instinctively conscious. Both had recently known deep sorrow;
and both had felt that sickening sense of loneliness that falls on the young heart when suddenly
divided from all it most dearly loves, by death or other circumstances. Jyanough and his elder
brother Uncas had been deprived of both their parents, not many months before the fatal disease
broke out which had carried off so many victims amongst the Crees. The orphan youths had then
become all-in-all to each other, and their mutual attachment had excited the respect and admiration
of the whole village, of which, at his father's death, Uncas became the leading man. Had he
lived his brother would have assisted him in the government and direction of that portion of
the tribe but when he fell before the desolating pestilence, Jyanough was too young and inexperienced
to be made Sachem, and the title was conferred on a warrior who was deemed more capable of
supporting the dignity of the community. Thenceforth the youth was alone in his wigwam. He
had no sister to under take its domestic duties, and no friend with whom it pleased him to
dwell. He saw something in Henrich's countenance that promised sympathy, and he frankly demanded
his friendship; and the open-hearted English boy did not refuse to bestow it on the young Indian.

He spoke to him in his own tongue; and Jyanough's black eyes sparkled with joy as he heard
words of kindness from the lips of the pale-faced stranger. Henrich's height and manly figure
made him appear much older than he really was; and as he and his new friend walked together
towards the village, he seemed to be Jyanough's equal in age and strength, although the young
savage was several years his senior.  As they entered the glade that was surrounded by lofty
trees, and studded with wigwams, Tisquantum and the rest of the party approached by a path
on the other side, and they all met in the center of the open space, and were welcomed by the
friendly Crees. Wigwams were appointed to the Sachem and his daughter, and the most distinguished
of the Nausetts and their Pequodee allies; while the inferior Indians of both tribes were directed
to form huts for themselves beneath the neigh boring trees and all were invited to partake
freely of the hospitality of their hosts, and to rest at the Cree settlement for several days,
before they resumed their journey.

Jyanough conducted his English friend to his own wigwam, which was neatly furnished, and adorned
with native tools and weapons. He bade him repose his tired limbs on Uncas' deserted couch;
and while Henrich lay on the bed of soft grass covered with deer skins, that occupied one corner
of the hut, the Indian youth busied himself in preparing an evening repast for his guest. 
The chief article of this simple supper consisted of nokake, a kind of meal made of parched
maize or Indian corn, which Jyanough mixed with water in a calabash bowl, and, having well
kneaded it, made it into small cakes, and baked them on the embers of his wood-fire. The nokake,
in its raw state, constitutes the only food of many Indian tribes when on a journey. They carry
it in a bag, or a hollow leathern girdle; and when they reach a brook or pond, they take a
spoonful of the dry meal, and then one of water, to prevent its choking them.  Three or four
spoonfuls are sufficient for a meal for these hardy and abstemious people; and, with a few
dried shellfish, or a morsel of deer's flesh, they will subsist on it for months.

Such viands, with the addition of some wild fruits from the forest, were all that Jyanough
had to offer to his guest; but Henrich had known privation at home, and he had become accustomed
to Indian fare. The kindness, also, and the courtesy of the untutored savage, as he warmly
expressed his pleasure at receiving him into has wigwam, were so engaging, that the young traveler
would cheerfully have put up with worse accommodation.

From Jyanough he now heard the story of his sorrows, which deeply interested him; and, in return,
he told his host all that he could remember of his own past life, from his residence in Holland,
and his removal to America, even till the moment when he and Oriana had approached the Cree
village that evening  The red man listened with profound attention, and constantly interrupted
the narrator with intelligent questions on every subject that was interesting to him. But especially
was his curiosity awakened when Henrich, in speaking of his grief at being torn from all his
friends and relations, and his horror when he had anticipated a sudden and violent death, alluded
to his trust in God as the only thing that had then supported him under his trials and sufferings,
and still enabled him to hope for the future. The young Christian was not slow in answering
all his inquiries as to the nature of the white man's Mahneto, and explaining to him why the
true believer can endure, even with cheerfulness, afflictions and bereavements that are most
trying to flesh and blood, in the confident hope that God will over-rule every event to his
people's good, and will eventually restore all that they have lost.

'Then if I worship your Keechee-Mahneto[*] eagerly asked Jyanough, will he give back to me
my brother Uncas? I have called on my Mahneto for four long moons in vain. I have offered him
the best of my weapons, and the chief of my prey in hunting; and I have promised to pour on
Uncas' grave the blood of the first prisoner I capture in war, or the first of our enemies
that I can take by subtlety. Still Mahneto does not hear me. Tell me, then, pale-face, would
your God hear me?’

[Footnote: Keechee-Mahneto or Great Master of Life, is the name given by the Crees to their
notion of the Supreme Being. Maatche-Mahneto is the Great Spirit of Evil.]

Henrich was much moved at the impassioned eagerness of the Indian, whose naturally mild and
pensive expression was now changed for one of bitter disappointment, and even of ferocity,
and then again animated with a look of anxious hope and inquiry.

'Yes, Jyanough,' he replied, with earnest solemnity; 'my God will hear you; but he will not
give you back your brother in this world. If you learn to believe in Him; and to serve Him,
and to pray to Him in sincerity, He will guide you to that blessed land where, after death,
all His people meet together, and where there is neither sorrow nor separation.'

'But is Uncas there?' cried the young savage. 'Is my brother there? For I will serve no Mahneto
who will not restore me to him!'

Our young theologian was disconcerted, for a moment, at this puzzling question, which has excited
doubts and difficulties in wiser heads than his, end to which Scripture gives no direct reply.

'I believe,' he replied, 'that your brother--who you say was always kind, and just, and upright
while he lived on earth--is now, through the mercy of God, in a state of happiness: and I believe
that, if you also act up to what you know to be right, you will join him there, and dwell with
him for ever. But I can tell you how to attain a more perfect happiness, and to share the highest
joys of heaven in the kingdom that God has prepared for His own son. I can tell you what He
has declared to be His will with regard to all His human creatures; even that they should love
that Son, and look to Him as their Savior and their King. O, Jyanough, ask Oriana if she is
not happier since she learnt to love and worship the God of the Christians!--the only God who
can be just, and yet most merciful!'

In the vehemence of his feelings, Henrich bad rather outstripped his companion's powers of
following and comprehending him. He saw this in Jyanough's wandering and incredulous eyes;
and he carefully and patiently proceeded to explain to him the first rudiments of religion,
as he had done to Oriana: and to reply to all his doubts and questions according to the ability
that God gave him. A willing learner is generally a quick one; and Henrich was well pleased
with his second pupil. If he was not ready to relinquish his old ideas  and superstitions,
he was, at least, well inclined to listen to the doctrines of his new friend, and even to receive
them in connection with many of his heathen opinions.  Time, and the grace of God, Henrich
knew, could only cause these to give place to a purer belief, and entirely banish the ‘unclean
birds’ that dwelt in the ‘cage' of the young Indian's mind. But the fallow ground had already
been, in a manner, broken up, and some good seed scattered on the surface: and Henrich lay
down to rest with a fervent prayer that the dew of the Spirit might fall upon it, and cause
it to grow, and to bring forth fruit.

From the time of Henrich's captivity, he bad endeavored to keep up in his own mind a remembrance
of the Sabbath, or the Lord's Day (as it was always called by the Puritans); and, as far as
it was in his power to do so, he observed it as a day of rest from common occupations and amusements.
On that day, he invariably declined joining any hunting or fishing parties; and he also selected
it as the time for his longest spiritual conversations with Oriana; as he desired that she,
also, should learn to attach a peculiar feeling of reverence to a day that must be sacred to
every Christian, but which was always observed with remarkable strictness by the sect to which
Henrich belonged.

In this, as in all other customs that the young pale-face wished to follow, he was unopposed
by Tisquantum; who seemed entirely indifferent as to the religious feelings or social habits
of his adopted son, so long as he acquired a skill in the arts of war and hunting: and, in
these respects, Henrich's progress fully answered his expectations. He 	was, like most youths
of his age, extremely fond of every kind of sport; and his strength and activity--which had
greatly increased since he had adopted the wild life of the Indians--rendered every active
exercise easy and delightful to him. He consequently grew rapidly in the Sachem's favor, and
in that of all his companions, who learnt to love his kind and courteous manners, as much as
they admired his courage and address. One only of the red men envied him the esteem that he
gained, and hated him for it. This was Coubitant--the aspirant for the chief place in Tisquantum's
favor, and for the honor of one day becoming his son-in-law. From the moment that the captor's
life had been spared by the Sachem, and he had been disappointed of his expected vengeance
for the death of his friend Tekoa, the savage had harbored in his breast a feeling of hatred
towards the son of the slayer, and had burned with a malicious desire for Henrich s destruction.
This feeling he was compelled, as we have observed, to conceal from Tisquantum; but it only
gained strength by the restraint imposed on its outward expression, and many were the schemes
that he devised for its gratification. At present, however, he found it impossible to execute
any of them; and the object of his hate and jealousy was happily unconscious that he had so
deadly an enemy continually near him. An instinctive feeling had, indeed, caused Henrich to
shun the fierce young Indian, and to be less at ease in his company than in that of the other
red warriors; but his own generous and forgiving nature forbade his suspecting the real sentiments
entertained towards him by Coubitant, or even supposing that his expressions of approval and
encouragement were all feigned to suit his own evil purposes.

Oriana had never liked him; and time only strengthened the prejudice she felt against him.
She knew that he hoped eventually to make her his wife--or rather his slave--for Coubitant
was not a man to relax from any of the domestic tyranny of his race; and the more she saw of
her 'white brother,' and the more she heard from him of the habits and manners of his countrymen,
and of their treatment of their women, the more she felt the usual life of an Indian squaw
to be intolerable. Even the companionship of the young females of her own race became distasteful
to her; for their ignorance, and utter want of civilization, struck painfully on her now partially
cultivated and awakened mind, and made her feel ashamed of the coarseness of taste and manners
occasionally displayed by her former friends and associates. In the Christian captive alone
had she found, since her mother's death, a companion who could sympathize in her tastes and
feelings, which had ever been above the standard of any others with whom she was acquainted.
And Henrich could do more than sympathize in her aspirations--he could instruct her how they
might be fully realized in the attainment of divine knowledge, and the experience of Christian
love. No wonder, then, that Henrich held already the first place in her heart and imagination,
and was endowed by her lively fancy with every quality and every perfection, both of mind and
body, that she could conceive to herself.

The simple-minded girl made no concealment of her preference for the young stranger, whom she
regarded as a brother--but a brother in every way immeasurably her superior--and her father
never checked her growing attachment. The youth of both parties, the position that Henrich
occupied in his family as his adopted son, and the difference of race and color, prevented
him from even anticipating that a warmer sentiment than fraternal affection could arise between
them; and he fully regarded his daughter as the future inmate and mistress of an Indian warrior's
lodge--whether that of Coubitant or of some other brave, would, he considered, entirely depend
on the comparative prowess in war and hunting, and the value of the presents that would be
the offering of those who claimed her hand. That she should exercise any choice in the matter
never occurred to him; and, probably, had he foreseen that such would be the case, and that
the choice would fill on the son of a stranger--on the pale-faced captive whose father had
slain her only brother--he would have removed her from such dangerous influence. But he thought
not of such consequences resulting from the intimacy of Henrich and Oriana: he only saw that
his child was happy, and that she daily improved in grace and intelligence, and in the skilful
and punctual performance of all her domestic duties; and he was well satisfied that he had
not shed the blood of the Christian youth on the grave of his lost Tekoa. His own esteem and
affection for his adopted son also continued to increase; and, young as Henrich was, the influence
of his superior cultivation of mind, and rectitude of principle, was felt even by the aged
Chief, and caused him to treat him, at times, with a degree of respect that added bitterness
to Coubitant's malicious feelings.

He saw how fondly Oriana regarded her adopted brother, and personal jealousy made him more
clear-sighted as to the possibility of her affection ripening into love than her father had
as yet become; and gladly would the rival of the unsuspecting Henrich have blackened him in
the eyes of the Chieftain, and caused him to be banished from the lodge, had he been able to
find any accusation against him. But in this he invariably failed; for the pale-face was brave,
honest, and truthful, to a degree that baffled the ingenuity of his wily foe: and Coubitant
found that, instead of lowering Henrich in the regard of the Sachem, he only excited him to
take his part still more, and also ran a great risk of losing all the favor which he had himself
attained in Tisquantum's eyes.

The sudden friendship that the young Jyanough had conceived for the white stranger, and the
consequent favor with which he was looked upon by Oriana, tended still more to irritate the
malignant savage; and when, a few days after the arrival of Tisquantum's party at the Cree
village, he saw the three young friends seated amicably together beneath a shadowing tree,
and evidently engaged in earnest conversation, he could not resist stealing silently behind
them, and lurking in the underwood that formed a thick background to their position, in order
to listen to the subject of their discourse. How astonished and how indignant was he to find
that Henrich was reasoning eloquently against the cruel and ridiculous superstitions of the
Indian tribes, and pointing out to his attentive hearers the infinite superiority of the Christian's
belief and the Christian's practice! The acquiescence that Oriana expressed to the simple but
forcible arguments of the pale-face added to his exasperation; and he was also angry, as well
as astonished, to perceive that the young Cree, although he was yet unconvinced, was still
a willing listener, and an anxious inquirer as to the creed of his white friend.

Maddened with rage, and excited also by the hope of at length arousing the anger of the Sachem
against the Christian youth, he forgot his former caution, and hurried away, with quick and
noiseless step, to the wigwam occupied by Tisquantum, and broke unceremoniously upon his repose
as he sat, in a half-dreaming state, on the soft mat that covered the floor, and 'drank smoke'
from his long, clay pipe.

With vehement gestures, Coubitant explained to the Sachem the cause of his sudden interruption,
and implored him to listen to the counsel of his most faithful friend and subject, and to lose
no time in banishing from his favor and presence one who showed himself unworthy of all the
benefits he had heaped upon him, and who employed the life that had been so unduly spared in
perverting the mind of his benefactor's only child. In vain his eloquence--in vain his wrath.
Tisquantum regarded him calmly until he had exhausted his torrent of passionate expostulations,
and then, quietly removing the pipe from his lips, he replied, with his and decision--

'My brother is angry.  His zeal for the honor of Mahneto has made him forget his respect for
the Sachem and the Sachem's adopted son.  The life of the white stranger was spared that he
might bring joy to the mournful eyes of Oriana. He has done so. My daughter smiles again, and
it is well. Coubitant may go.’

He then resumed his pipe, and, closing his eyes again, gave himself up to the drowsy contemplations,
which the entrance of Coubitant had interrupted; and the disappointed warrior retired with
a scowl on his dark brow, and aggravated malice in his still darker heart.

CHAPTER VIII.

The indifference of Tisquantum on the subject of the religious opinions that his daughter might
imbibe from her Christian companion, may seem strange. But the Sachem, though a heathen, was,
in fact, no fanatic. He believed--or professed to believe--that he was himself in the possession
of supernatural powers; and so long as these pretensions were acknowledged, and he continued
to enjoy the confidence and veneration of his ignorant countrymen, he was perfectly satisfied.
Henrich had also, on their first acquaintance, distinctly professed his faith in the existence
and the power of the Great Mahneto, or Master of Life; and this was all the religion--properly
so called--of which Tisquantum had any idea. He did not, therefore, give himself any concern
as to the other objects of his adopted son's belief or worship; neither did he care to prevent
Oriana from listening to the doctrines of the pale-face, so long as she continued obedient
and gentle, and neglected none of the duties of an Indian squaw.

The feelings of Coubitant were different. Not only did he burn with an eager desire to deprive
his rival of the Sachem's love and esteem, but he also entertained a strong abhorrence of the
religion of the white men, as he had seen it practiced, and knew it was disseminated, by the
Spanish settlers in Mexico, whither he had traveled in his early youth. In his eyes, these
Christians were base idolaters; for such was the impression made on him by the images and crucifixes
that he beheld, and the marks of veneration that were paid to these idols of wood and stone,
by the superstitious and degenerate Spaniards of that district. When, therefore, he heard Henrich
endeavoring to inculcate the worship of Jesus, as the Son of God, on Oriana and Jyanough, he
not unnaturally regarded him as a believer in all the deities whose images he had seen associated
with that of Jesus, and receiving equal homage.

Such, unhappily, has too often been the impression made on the minds of the heathen, in every
quarter of the globe, by the vain and superstitious observances of the Roman Church, when her
ministers have proposed to their acceptance so corrupt a form of Christianity, instead of the
pure and holy doctrines of unadulterated Scripture.  To those nations already given over to
idolatry it has appeared that their civilized teachers were only offering them another kind
of image- worship; but to the Indians of North America--who make use of no images of their
deity, and generally acknowledge but one Great Spirit of universal power and beneficence, and
one Spirit of evil--the carved and painted figures of the Spanish invaders naturally gave the
idea of a multitude of gods; and, in some of them, excited unbounded indignation and hatred.
This was the case with Coubitant; who, though totally uninfluenced by any love or fear of the
Great Mahneto whom he professed to worship, was yet--like many other bigots of various countries
and creeds--keenly jealous of any innovations in the religion of his nation; and ready to oppose,
and even to exterminate, all who attempted to subvert it.

He now regarded Henrich as such an aggressor on the national faith and practice; and he consequently
hated him with a redoubled hatred, and ceased not to plot in secret his ultimate destruction.

Meanwhile, his intended victim was passing his time in considerable enjoyment, and with a sense
of perfect security, among the Crees. This tribe was at that time remarkable for hospitality,
and likewise for courage and integrity.  These good qualities have sadly degenerated since
their intercourse with Europeans has enabled them to gratify the passion of all savages for
intoxicating liquors: but at the period of which we are speaking, they were a singularly fine
race of Indians, and their renown as warriors enabled them to extend protection to such of
the neighboring tribes as entered into alliance with them. Disease had, indeed, recently reduced
their numbers in many of the villages that were situated in the dense forest, and were thus
deprived of a free circulation of air; and the wigwams at which Tisquantum's party had arrived
were among those that had suffered most severely. Several of the lodges had been altogether
deserted, in consequence of the death of the proprietors; in which case the Indians frequently
strip off the thick mats which form the outer covering of the wigwam, and leave the bare poles
a perishing monument of desolation! This is only done when the head of the family dies.  The
property of which he has not otherwise disposed during his life, is then buried with him; and
his friends continue, for a long period, to revisit the grave, and make offerings of food,
arms, and cooking utensils. These articles are deemed sacred to the spirit of the departed,
and no Indian would think of taking them away unless he replaced them with something of equal
value.  This is permitted; and the custom must often afford relief to the hungry traveler through
the forests, who comes unexpectedly upon the burial grounds of some of his race, and finds
the graves amply supplied with maize and tobacco--more useful to the living than to the dead.

Many such graves, besides that of Uncas, were to be seen in the vicinity of the Cree village:
and it seemed likely that their numbers would be still augmented; for the disease which had
already proved so fatal, had not left the wigwams, although its violence had considerably abated.
Old Terah, the uncle of Jyanough, and the chief of the present Sachem's council, lay dangerously
ill; and all the charms, and all the barbarous remedies usually resorted to in such cases,
had been employed by the Cree Powows in vain. Terah was one of the Pinces, or Pnieses--a dignity
conferred only on men of approved courage and wisdom--and many a successful incursion had he
led into the great plains of Saskatchawan, where dwelt the Stone Indians, with whom the Crees
had long been at enmity--and many a prisoner had he brought back to his village, and slain
as an offering to Maatche-Mahneto, while he hung the scalp that he had torn from the quivering
victim on the walls of his lodge, as its proudest ornament.

Terah was also as wise in counsel as he was valiant in war; and, although his age prevented
his assuming the office of Sachem, or ruler of the village,[*] on the death of his brother,
yet his wisdom and experience gave him great influence with Chingook, the present Chief, and
caused his life to be regarded as of peculiar value by the whole community.

[Footnote: Almost every considerable village has its Sachem, or Chief, who is subordinate to
the great Sachem or Sagamore, of the whole tribe.]

The arrival of so celebrated a Powow as Tisquantum during a time of sickness-and especially
when the death of so important a personage as Terah was apprehended--was hailed with great
joy by the whole village; and presents of food, clothing, and arms poured into the lodge that
formed his temporary abode, from such of the Crees as desired to secure his medical and supernatural
aid for the relief of their suffering relatives. All day he was occupied in visiting the wigwams
of the sick, and employing charms or incantations to drive away the evil spirits from his patients;
sometimes also administering violent emetics, and other drugs from his obee-bag, or medicine-pouch;
which contained a multitude of heterogeneous articles, such as herbs, bones, shells, serpents'
teeth, and pebbles--all necessary to the arts and practices of a Powow. On the venerable Terah
his skill and patience were principally exercised, and many were the torments that he inflicted
on the dying old savage, and which were borne by the Pince with all the calm endurance that
became his dignity and reputation. Terah, like all others of his exalted rank, had attained
to the honor of being a Pince by serving a hard apprenticeship to suffering and privation in
his early youth. He had passed through the ordeal triumphantly--and he who had run barefoot
through sharp and tearing thorns--who had endured to have his shins beaten with a hard and
heavy mallet, and his flesh burned with red hot spears—and had not even betrayed a sense of
pain-- in order to attain the rank of a great counselor, and the privilege of attending the
Sachem as one of his guard of honor--did not shrink when his barbarous physician burned a blister
on his chest with red-hot ashes, and scarified the horny soles of his feet till the blood flowed
plentifully. Those, and strong emetic herbs, which he forced his patient to repeat until he
fainted away, constituted the medical treatment of Tisquantum: but much greater benefit was
expected--and, such is the power of imagination in these ignorant savages, that it was often
attained--from the practice of his charms and conjurations.

As soon as Tisquantum saw his noble patient reduced to a state of unconsciousness by his physical
treatment, he commenced a course of spiritual incantations. In a fierce and unnatural voice,
he called on Hobbamock, or Satan, who he declared was visible to him in one of his many forms
of an eagle, a deer, a fawn, and sometimes a gigantic human being. He then adjured the evil
spirit, and commanded him to remove the disease; promising, in return, to offer to him skins,
and hatchets, and even the scalps of his foes. If any signs of returning consciousness appeared,
the Powow speedily banished them by a repetition of his wild howling, which he continued for
hours, at the same time throwing himself about with wild and unnatural gestures, and striking
his hands violently on his legs, until he became as much exhausted as his unlucky patient.

It was during one of these awful exhibitions of heathen cruelty and superstition, that Henrich
one evening drew nigh to the lodge of Terah, accompanied by Oriana; and paused at the open
entrance, in amazement and horror at the scene he beheld. The dying man lay stretched on the
ground, in the center of the outer room of the hut, where he had been placed that he might
enjoy the full benefit of the great Powow's skill. His eyes were closed and his gray hairs
hung matted end disordered on the ground, while his emaciated features appeared to be fixed
in death. A frightful wound was on his breast, and blood was trickling from his lacerated feet;
while the involuntary contractions of his limbs alone denoted that he was yet alive, and sensible
to suffering, which he was now unable to make any effort to conceal. Around the walls of the
hut stood many of his relatives and dependants, whose countenances expressed anxiety and hope,
mingled with fear of the priestly Sachem.

Among the bystanders, Henrich instantly recognized his friend Jyanough; and he shuddered to
see the ingenious and inquiring youth assisting at such satanic rites. But the figure that
chiefly attracted his attention, and to which his eyes became riveted, was that of Tisquantum--the
father of his gentle and beloved Oriana! There stood the Sachem: he whose countenance he had
seldom seen disturbed from his usual expression of gravity and composure, and whose dignity
of manner had hitherto always commanded his respect. There he now stood--a victim to satanic
influence! His tall figure was dilated to its utmost height by excitement and violent muscular
effort, as he stood by the side of the sick man. His eyes were fixed with a fearful and unmeaning
glare on the darkest corner of the hut, and seemed to be starting from their sockets; while
his hands, stiff and motionless, were extended over the body of Terah, as if to guard him from
the assault of some demons visible to the conjuror alone. In this statue-like posture he remained
for some moments, while his breast heaved convulsively, and foam gathered on his parted lips.
Then, suddenly, he uttered a yell--so loud and so unearthly that Henrich started with surprise
and terror: and Oriana caught his hand, and tried to draw him away from a scene that now filled
her soul with shame and sorrow.

But Henrich did not move: he did not heed the beseeching voice, and the gentle violence of
his companion, whose wishes were generally commands to her white brother.

That yell had recalled the patient to partial consciousness, and he rolled his blood-shot eyes
around him, as if endeavoring to collect his wandering senses; and then his haggard countenance
again resumed the expression of imperturbable composure and firm endurance that an Indian warrior
thinks it a disgrace to lose, even in the extremity of suffering. Then Tisquantum sank on one
knee beside him, and burst forth into a passionate address to his deities--the powers of good
and evil-- whom he regarded as almost equally mighty to decide the fate of the patient.

'O, Mahneto!' he exclaimed, in a hoarse and howling voice; 'O, Richtan-Mahneto,[1] who created
the first man and woman out of a stone, and placed them in these forests to be the parents
of thy red children; is it thy will that Terah shall leave his brethren to mourn his departed
goodness and wisdom, and go on that long and toilsome journey that leads to the hunting-grounds
of our forefathers? Surely when his spirit knocks at the door, it will be opened to him, and
the warriors of our tribe will welcome him, while his foes will be driven away with the awful
sentence, Quachet![2]  Yes, Terah, the wise in counsel, and the fearless in war, shall surely
dwell in the fields of happiness, and again strike the prey with the renewed strength and skill
of his youth. But not yet, Mahneto! O, not yet!…I see Hobbamock lurking there in the gloom!
I see his fiery eagle eyes, and I hear the flap of his heavy wing; and I know that he hovers
here to suck the blood of Terah, with all his murderous Weettakos around him![3] But Tisquantum's
charms are too strong for him: he cannot approach the sick man now. Ha! Maatche- Mahneto!'
he cried--and again he fixed his glaring eyes on the dark space in the far corner of the hut,
from which the spectators had shrunk trembling away--' Ha! spirit of evil! I behold thee--and
I defy thee! Terah is not thine; and my power has compelled thee to send the Ashkook,[4] with
his healing tongue, to lick my brother's wounds; and Wobsacuck, with eagle beak, to devour
the venom that clogs his veins, and makes his breath come short and thick. I feel them on my
shoulders, as they sit there, and stretch out their necks to do my bidding! Terah shall live!'

[Footnote 1: ‘Richtan,’ supposed to signify old--‘Ancient of Days’-- the Maker]

[Footnote 2: Quachet, begone, or march off; supposed to be the sentence of condemnation uttered
against the souls of the wicked, when they present themselves, and ‘knock at the door' that
leads to the Indian Paradise.]

[Footnote 3: Weettako, a kind of vampire or devil, into which the Crees and other tribes suppose
all who have ever fed on human flesh to be transformed after death.]

[Footnote 4: Ashkooke, a demon in the form of a snake, who, with his brother-fiend, Wobsacuck,
are supposed to be sent by Hobbamock to heal the sick, when forced, by the potent spells of
the great Powow, to work good instead of evil.]

Tisquantum closed his wild oration with another loud and prolonged yell, to which all the spectators,
who crowded the sides of the hut, replied by a short and yelping cry: and the Powow sank on
the ground by the side of his patient, faint and exhausted by the violent and sustained exertions
to which both his mind and body had been subjected for several hours without intermission.
The attendants, among whom Jyanough was foremost, hastened to his assistance, and administered
to him some needful refreshment; and Henrich turned away, grieved and disgusted, and fall of
sympathy for his once heathen companion, who, he now remembered, was standing by his side,
and witnessing the wild and degrading extravagances of a father whom she both loved and respected.

He looked into her deep expressive eyes, and saw that they were filled with tears of humiliation
and mental agony. How could it be otherwise? How could she--who had learned to love a God of
mercy, and to believe in a meek and lowly Savior--bear to see her father thus the slave of
Satan, and the minister of cruel and heathen superstition? Especially, how could she bear that
so degrading a scene should he witnessed by him from whom she had derived all she knew of the
gospel of joy and peace, and whose esteem was more precious to her than the opinion of all
the world beside?

Silently she walked by Henrich's side for neither of them were inclined to speak the thoughts
that filled their minds. And silently they would have proceeded to Oriana's dwelling, where
her white brother proposed to leave her with her attendants, and then to return and seek his
deluded friend Jyanough; but ere they reached Tisquantum's lodge, they were overtaken by the
Indian youth.

Jyanough had been too much engrossed by the exciting scene that took place in Terah's dwelling--and
too eagerly watching for some favorable appearances that might encourage him to hope for the
life of his only surviving relative--to observe that Henrich was also a spectator of these
heathen rites, until all was concluded, and the patient and his physician were alike overpowered
by heat and exhaustion. Then he had glanced towards the door, and had seen the saddened expression
that clouded the open features of the Christian youth, and the look of anguish that Oriana
cast on her degraded father; and then all the truths that Henrich had endeavored so simply
and so patiently to impress upon his mind--all the arguments that his white friend had employed
to win him from heathen darkness, and guide him into Divine truth--rushed at once upon his
memory. He felt ashamed of the remaining superstition that had led him to take part in such
vain ceremonies, and to deem that they could conduce to his uncle's recovery, after he had
heard, and even assented to, the holy belief of the Christians in the universal power of Almighty
God, and the victory of His Son Jesus Christ over the devil and all his angels. And he was
grieved, also, that his kind and anxious young teacher should regard him as an ungrateful,
and, possibly, even as a deceitful hearer.

He, therefore, hastened after Henrich and Oriana, and overtook them as they approached the
lodge appropriated to the Nausett Sachem.

'Are you angry with your red brother?' he inquired earnestly, as he laid his hand on Henrich's
shoulder, and looked sadly in his face. 'Do you think that Jyanough is a deceiver, and that
he has listened to the teaching of the white stranger only to gain his friendship, and then
to forsake him, and betray him, and return to the religion of his own people? O, no!  Jyanough's
heart is open and clear before the eyes of his friend; and he will gladly listen again to all
the good things that Henrich tells him, for his heart says that they are true. But his soul
is still very dark; and when he saw Terah ready to die, and felt that, when he was gone, there
would be none to love him among all his tribe, the cloud grew thicker and thicker; and Maatche-Mahneto
seemed to look out of the midst of the deep gloom with wrathful eyes of fire, and beckon him
to follow to Terah's lodge, and join in the worship which the great Powow was about to offer.
Will your Mahneto forgive him, Henrich?

The heart of the Christian boy was penetrated with joy and thankfulness at this frank confession
of the young Indian. He clearly saw that the struggle--the universal and enduring struggle--between
the powers of good and evil, had already commenced in the soul of the red man; and he had full
confidence in the blessed declaration, that 'He who hath begun a good work of grace in the
immortal spirit, will surely perfect it unto the end.' Therefore, he replied without hesitation,
'He will certainly forgive you, Jyanough; and if you desire His help to make your soul light,
and strong, and joyful, and ask for that help in sincerity and truth, He will most assuredly
give it to you. Let us enter the lodge, and there unite our prayers to the Great Spirit, who
is the God and Father of all his creatures, that He will graciously shed His light and His
truth into all our hearts; and, especially, that He will remove all the doubts and fears that
still lie sadly and heavily on our brother's spirit.'

The three young friends did so: and in the deserted chamber of the great heathen Powow, Tisquantum,
the voice of Christian supplication ascended to the throne of a prayer-answering God. Could
it ascend unheeded? or fail to bring down, in His own good time, an answer of peace?

CHAPTER IX

‘The dark places of the earth are full of the habitations of cruelty.’ PSA. lxxiv, 20

The night that followed this conversation, Jyanough passed in Terah's lodge, and he nursed
his suffering relative with gentle patience. But he saw no signs of recovery, although the
women and the Cree Powows assured him that the fatal disease was driven away by Tisquantum's
powerful incantations, and that, when the sun rose, he would see the spirit of Terah revive.
So had the conjuror declared; and so these misguided heathens believed. But when the first
beams of opening day entered the door of the lodge, which was set open to receive them, and
fell on the dark and pallid features of the aged sufferer, Jyanough could no longer be deceived
into hope. He saw that his revered uncle was dying, and he hastened to inform Henrich of the
fact, and to entreat him to return with him to Terah's wigwam, and to prey to the Great Spirit
in his behalf.

Henrich readily complied: and he, too, was convinced, by the first glance at the dying Indian,
that no human aid, however skilful, could long retain that once powerful spirit in its worn
and wasted tenement of clay. He knelt down by the side of Terah's couch, and Jyanough knelt
with him; and, regardless of the wondering gaze of the ignorant attendants, he offered up a
short and simple prayer to God for the soul of the departing warrior.

The Cree Powows who had watched the sick man during the night, had left the lodge as soon as
daylight set in, to collect materials for a great burnt offering they deigned to make, as a
last resource, in front of the Pince's dwelling. As Henrich and Jyanough rose from their knees,
the heathen priest entered, bearing strings of wampum, articles of furniture, of clothing,
food, tobacco, and everything of any value that they had been able to obtain from the friends
of Terah. All these various articles were displayed before the dim eyes of the invalid, for
whose benefit they were to be reduced to a heap of useless ashes; and a faint smile of satisfaction
passed over Terah's countenance: but he spoke not.  Jyanough then bent down, and pressed his
lips to the cold brow of his almost unconscious uncle, and hurried with Henrich from the lodge;
for he could not bear again to witness any repetition of the heathen ceremonies that had caused
him so much shame the preceding day: neither could he endure to see his last relative leave
the world, surrounded by a spiritual darkness which it was not in his power to dispel.

The young friends took their way into the forest, that they might be beyond the sight and the
sound of those rites that were about to be performed for the recovery of one who had already
begun to travel through ‘the valley of the shadow of death.’ They had not, however, gone far
in a westerly direction, before they chanced their intention, and resolved to return to the
village. The cause of this change of purpose was their meeting with a band of Cree warriors,
who had gone out, some weeks previously, on an expedition against a settlement of their enemies,
the Stone Indians; and were now returning from the plains of the Saskatchawan, laden with spoils.
Many of the Crees bore scalps suspended from their belts, as bloody trophies of victory; and
all had arms, and skins, and ornaments that they had carried away from the pillaged wigwams
of their foes.

Henrich could not help gazing with admiration at the party of warriors as they approached.
The greater part of them were mounted on beautiful and spirited horses of the wild breed of
the western prairies, which they rode with an ease and grace that astonished the young Englishman.
They wore no covering on their heads, and their black hair was cut short, except one long scalp-lock
hanging behind; so that their fine countenances, which were rather of the Roman cast, were
fully exposed to view. Their dress consisted of a large blanket, wrapped gracefully round the
waist, and confined by a belt, so as to leave the bust and arms bare; and so perfect and muscular
were their figures, that they had the appearance of noble bronze statues.  Their native weapons,
consisting of spears and bows, with highly ornamented quivers suspended from their shoulders,
and battle-axes hung to their belts, added much to their martial and picturesque effect.  Behind
the horsemen followed a band on foot, who carried the stolen treasures of the wasted village;
and Henrich looked with curiosity at the various and beautifully decorated articles of dress,
and hunting equipments, that had formed the pride and the wealth of the defeated Stone Indians.

But the part of the spoil that interested and distressed both Henrich and his companion more
than all the rest, was a young Indian warrior, who, with his wife and her infant, had been
brought away as prisoners to add to the triumph, and, probably, to glut the vengeance, of their
conquerors. There was an unextinguished fire in the eye of the captive, and an expression of
fearless indignation in the proud bearing with which he strode by the side of his captors,
that clearly told how bravely he would sell his life but for the cords that tightly bound his
wrists behind him, and were held by a powerful Cree on each side. Behind him walked his wife,
with downcast features and faltering steps, and at her back hung her little infant, suspended
in a bag or pouch of deer skin, half filled with the soft bog-moss, so much used by Indian
squaws to form the bed--and, indeed, the only covering--of their children during the first
year of their existence.  The eyes of the captive young mother were fixed tearfully on the
majestic form of her husband, who was too proud--perhaps, also, too sad--to turn and meet her
gaze, while the eyes of his foes were upon him to detect his slightest weakness. Even the low
wailing cry of her child was unheeded by this broken hearted wife in that sad hour; for she
well knew the customs of Indian warfare, and she had no hope for the life of her warrior, even
if her own should be spared.

Henrich gazed on the little group in pity; for be instinctively read their story, and their
coming fate, in their countenances, and in the cruel glances that fell on them from their guards.
He looked at Jyanough; and in his expressive features he saw a fell confirmation of his worst
fears.

'They will sacrifice them to Maatche-Mahneto in the vain hope of lengthening Terah's life,'
he softly whispered in Henrich's ear.  'Let us go back and seek Oriana. Perhaps, for her sake,
Tisquantum may ask the lives of the squaw and her young child; and, as Chingook's honored guest,
they would be granted to him; but there is no hope for the warrior. His blood will surely be
shed to appease Maatche-Mahneto, and to atone for the death of several of the Cree braves who
have fallen this year by the hands of the Stone tribe.'

Hastily Henrich turned; and, followed by Jyanough, took a by-path well known to them, and entered
the village before the arrival of the warriors and their unhappy prisoners. A brief explanation
was sufficient to enlist all the kindly feelings, and all the Christian spirit, of Oriana in
favor of their project; and she lost no time in seeking her father, who had again repaired
to Terah's hut, to superintend the costly sacrifice that was being offered in his behalf. She
found him exulting in a partial improvement in his patient, whose senses had again returned
with a brief and deceitful brilliance, and attributing what he called the aged Pince's recovery
to the potency of his own spells.

This was no time for Oriana to argue with the elated Powow on the fallacy of his pretensions.
She therefore listened patiently to his boastings; and then, with much feeling and natural
eloquence, told him the cause of her interrupting him at such a moment, and besought him to
exert all his great influence with the Crees, to induce them to spare the lives of the Stone
captives.

Tisquantum listened with attention to her story and her petition, for he was always gentle
to Oriana; but he gave her little hope of that fell success which her warm young heart desired,
and anticipated.

'My child,' he said, 'I will do what you ask, so far as to request that the woman and child
may be placed at your disposal. But the warrior's life I cannot demand, for it would be an
insult to the brave Crees to suppose that they would suffer an enemy to escape, and tell his
tribe that they were woman-hearted. No, he must die; and, if the soul of his ancestors dwells
in him, he will exult in the opportunity of showing how even a Stone Indian can meet death.'

Oriana was repulsed, but not defeated, by this reply. 'Nay, my father,' she again began, 'either
save all, or let all perish. Do not take the brave young warrior from his wife and child, and
leave them in poverty and sorrow; but plead for mercy to be shown to him also--and so may mercy
be shown to his conquerors, and to you, his deliverer, when--'

'Peace, child,' interrupted the Sachem, with more asperity than he usually showed to Oriana.
'These are the notions you have learned from your white brother, and I desire not to hear them.
Tisquantum knows his duty. I will demand the lives of the woman and child of whom you speak;
but the warrior must abide his fate.  And think you that he would not scorn to live when honor
is gone I Go'--he added more gently, as he saw the sorrow that dimmed her eye--'go, and tell
Jyanough to meet me at the Sachem's lodge. Terah may yet be saved--this victim comes at s happy
moment, and surely Mahneto demands his life as at offering for that of the venerable Pince.'

Oriana shuddered at what she saw to be her father's meaning.  Once she would have felt as he
did and have believed that their god could be propitiated by blood and agony. But now she knew
that all such cruel sacrifices were worse than vain; and deeply she regretted her own inability
to bring her countrymen, and especially her own beloved father, to a knowledge of the Gospel
of mercy and peace; and thus save them from imbruing their hands in the blood of their fellow
men, and thinking that they did good service to the Great Spirit.

She hurried back to her companions, and, weeping, told them of her partial success. It was
all, and more than all, that Jyanough expected; and he immediately went to meet Tisquantum
at the lodge of the Cree Sachem, Chingook, where he found the war party and their prisoners
assembled. After a few words to Jyanough, Tisquantum commenced a long speech to his brother
Sachem, in which he dilated on the friendship that subsisted between them, and the joy that
he had felt in exercising his skill for the benefit of the brave and hospitable Crees. He then
spoke of Terah's perilous condition, and his fears that even his powers had been baffled by
the spirit of evil; and that the Pince would yet be taken from them, unless some offering could
be found more precious than all that were now piled before his dwelling, and only waited for
the auspicious moment to be wrapped inflame, us a sacrifice to the offended deity who had brought
the pestilence. 'And have we not such an offering here?' he added, pointing to the captive
warrior, who stood, with head erect, awaiting the sentence that he knew would be pronounced.
'Have we not here a victim, sent by Mahneto himself, at the very moment when Terah's life seems
hanging on a breath? Lead him, then, to the sacred pile; and as his soul goes forth, the soul
of Terah shall revive.

This speech was received with acclamations by the Crees; and already the warriors were hurrying
away their captive, while his wife followed, as if mechanically, to share her husband's fate.
Bat here Tisquantum interposed, and, in his daughter's name, requested the life of the woman
and her child. His request was readily granted by Chingook; for of what value was a squaw in
the eyes of these Indian braves?

The daughter of our friend and benefactor shall be denied nothing that she asks,' replied the
Cree Chief. 'Take the woman to Oriana's lodge, and let her be her slave.'

Jyanough approached to lead away the unhappy woman but she turned on him a look of despairing
misery, and, laying her band on her husband's arm, said quickly, 'I will see my Lincoya die,
and then I will follow you where you will, for Mailah has no home.'

Jyanough did not oppose her, for his heart was touched by her sorrow and her fortitude; and
the captive warrior turned his head, and bent on her sad countenance one look of tenderness
and approbation, that told how deeply he was sensible of her devotion.

He did not speak--perchance he could not trust his voice in that trying moment--but he followed
his guards, and his eye was again steadfast, and his step was firm.

Henrich and Oriana waited anxiously for the return of Jyanough: but he came not; and they almost
feared that Tisquantum's request had been too coldly urged to prove successful.  It was a calm
autumnal day; and as the sun rose high in the heavens, his beams were shrouded by heavy thunder
clouds, while a low and distant murmur foretold an approaching storm, and added to the gloom
that weighed heavily on Oriana's spirit. All the sin and degradation of the faith of her countrymen
seemed to strike upon her mind with a force hitherto unknown, and to bow her down in shame
and sadness. Even to Henrich--to her loved Christian friend and teacher--she could not now
utter her feelings; and when, to divert her thoughts, and remove her from the village where
he knew so cruel a scene would soon be enacted, he led her towards the forest, she followed
him silently. They seated themselves beneath an overshadowing tree; and, for some time, no
sound broke the oppressive silence save the soft rustling of the leaves, that seemed to be
moved by the spirits of the air-for no wind was stirring.

Presently a shriek--one single cry of agony--arose from the village: and all was still again.

'It was a woman's voice!' exclaimed Oriana, in a tone of deep suffering. 'O, Henrich! they
murder the helpless and the innocent; and my father consents to the deed!'

Henrich did not reply; he had no comfort to offer. But they both gazed towards the village,
as if hoping to discover, through the impervious wood that surrounded it, some indications
of what was going on in those 'habitations of cruelty.’

Soon a dense cloud of smoke rose high in the still at; and flames shot up above the intervening
trees. And then burst forth a mingled din of wild unearthly sounds, that told of sated vengeance,
and malignant joy, and demoniac worship. Fiercely the war cry of the Crees rang in the air,
while above it rose the shrill sound of clashing spears and tomahawks; and Oriana knew that
the savages were dancing round a death- fire, and calling on Mahneto to accept their bloody
offering.

But now the threatening storm broke suddenly on that dark place of the earth; and it seemed
to Oriana's troubled spirit that the wrath of heaven was poured upon her benighted race. Peal
after peal resounded in quick succession, and reverberated from the distant kills; while flashes
of forked lightning followed one another rapidly, and dispelled, for a moment, the unnatural
darkness. The young Indian clung trembling and terrified to her companion, and hid her face
on his shoulder, to shut out the fearful scene, while Henrich spoke to her words of comfort
and encouragement, and at length succeeded in calming her agitation. The rain poured down in
torrents but so dense was the foliage that hung over Oriana and her companion that it could
not penetrate their place of refuge; and they remained awaiting its cessation, and watching
the curling smoke, that seemed to die away as the falling torrent extinguished the fire. But
as it disappeared, another cloud arose near the same spot; and wider and fiercer flames sprang
up, that defied the rain, and continued to burn with more and more strength. Whence could they
arise? Surely the wigwams were on fire!

Henrich communicated this fear to Oriana, and they arose and hurried together towards the village,
where an appalling scene met their eyes. In front of Terah's dwelling were the smoldering remains
of the sacrificial fire, on which--still upheld by the stake to which he had been bound--the
burnt and, blackened form of a man was visible; while close by the ashes lay a woman, so motionless
that she seemed as totally deprived of life as the wretched victim himself, and a child was
reclining on her shoulder, whose faint wailing cry showed that it yet lived and suffered.

None heeded the melancholy group; for the warriors, whose wild songs and frantic dances had
been interrupted by the sudden violence of the storm, were all now engaged in fruitless efforts
to extinguish the flames that were rapidly consuming the lodge of Terah. The lightning had
struck it, and ignited its roof of reeds; and so rapidly had the whole dwelling become a prey
to the dreadful element, that even the removal of the dying sage had been despaired of. But
Jyanough, who had been a silent spectator of all the previous scene of cruelty, was not to
be daunted by the smoke and flame that burst through the entrance, and drove from the chamber
of death all the attendants of the sufferer. Boldly he rushed into Terah's dwelling; and, just
as Henrich and Oriana entered the open space in front of it, they beheld him issuing forth,
blackened with smoke and scorched with fire, and bending beneath the weight of his uncle's corpse.

Yes; Terah was already a corpse!  All the charms and incantations of the Powows bad failed
to banish the disease that was sent to summon him away. All the treasure that had been destroyed,
and the precious life- blood that had been spilled to propitiate false deities, could not for
one moment arrest the fiat of the true 'Master of life,' or detain the spirit which was recalled
by ‘Him who gave it' That spirit had passed away amidst the noise of the tempest; and when
Henrich sprang forward, and assisted his friend to lay the body gently on the earth, they saw
that the spark of life had fled!

All further attempts at extinguishing the fire were now abandoned; and the Crees gathered round
their departed friend to condole with Jyanough, who was his nearest relative, and to commence
that dismal howling by which they express their grief on such occasions. All the property of
the dead man was already consumed; but the best mats and skins that Jyanough’s wigwam contained
were brought to wrap the corpse in; and when the site of his former dwelling could be cleared
of ashes and rubbish, a grave was speedily dug in the center of it, and the, body laid by the
simple sepulchre, around which the friends of the venerated Pince seated themselves, and howled,
and wept, and detailed the virtues and the wisdom of the dead.

Jyanough was expected to act the part of chief mourner in these ceremonies; and the real affection
he had entertained for his uncle induced him to comply, and to remain all that day, and all
the following night, at the grate. But he refused to cover his face with soot--as is customary
on such occasions of domestic sorrow--or to join the Powows in their frantic cries and exorcisms,
to drive off the Weettakos from sucking the dead man's blood. The presence of Henrich seemed
to annoy and irritate these priests of Satan; and he was glad to retire from a scene so repugnant
to his better feelings, and to return to Oriana, by whose care and direction the unhappy Mailah
and her infant had been promptly removed from the place of death and desolation, and conveyed
to her own apartment in Tisquantum’s lodge.

Her kind efforts had restored the poor young widow to consciousness; and she now sat on the
floor, with her child on her knee, listening with a calmness that almost seemed apathy, to
the words of comfort that were uttered by the gentle Squaw-Sachem.

Mailah was very young. Scarcely sixteen summers had passed over her head; and yet--such is
Indian life--she had already been a wife and a mother; and now, alas! she was a widow. Her
grief had been passionate at the last, and had burst forth in that one wild cry that had startled
Oriana’s ear in the forest.  But that was over now, and she seemed resigned to her hard fate,
and willing to endure it.  Perhaps this was for her infant's sake; and, perhaps, her sensibilities
were blunted by the life she had led, in common with the rest of her race and sex--a life in
which the best feelings and sympathies of our nature are almost unknown. It was not until Oriana
led her to speak of her past life, and the home of her youth--now desolate and in ruins--that
tears of natural grief flowed from her eyes. Then she seemed roused to a full sense of all
she had lost, end broke out into mournful lamentations for her murdered Lincoya, whose noble
qualities and high lineage she eloquently extolled; while she sadly contrasted her present
lonely and desolate position with her happiness as the squaw of so distinguished a warrior,
and so successful a hunter.

Oriana said all she could to console her; and assured her of her protection and friendship,
and of a home in her lodge when they returned to their own country, where she should live as
her sister, and bring up her little Lincoya to emulate his father's courage and virtues: and,
ere long, the simple young savage again grew calm, said lifted up her soft black eyes, and
smiled gratefully at her new friend and benefactor. She said she bad no wish to return to her
own tribe, for all her family and friends had been destroyed in the recent massacre; and the
village where she had spent such happy days was reduced to ashes. She, therefore, was well
content to remain with the youthful Squaw-Sachem, to whose intercession she knew she owed her
own life and that of her child, and in whose service she professed her willingness to live and die.

Her manner and appearance greatly interested Henrich, for they were marked by much greater
refinement than he had seen in any of the Indian females, except Oriana. This was to be accounted
for by her noble birth; for in those days the Indian chieftains prided themselves on the purity
and nobility of their lineage; and no member of a Sachem's family was allowed to marry one
of an inferior race. A certain air of dignity generally distinguished the privileged class,
even among the females; although their lives were not exempt from much of hardship and servitude,
and they were regarded as altogether the inferiors of their lords and masters.

To Oriana the arrival of the young mother and her playful child was a source of much pleasure
and comfort; for she had begun to feel the want of female society, and the women who accompanied
Tisquantum's party, and assisted her in the domestic duties of the family, were no companions
to her.  In Mailah she saw that she could find a friend; and her kindness and sympathy soon
attached the lonely young squaw to her, and even restored her to cheerfulness and activity.
It was only when she visited the grave in which Henrich and Jyanough had laid the murdered
Lincoya, and decked it with flowers and green boughs, that the widow seemed to feel the greatness
of her affliction. Then she would weep bitterly, and, with passionate gestures, lament her
brave warrior. But, at other times, she was fully occupied with the care of her little Lincoya,
or in assisting Oriana in the light household duties that devolved upon her. And her sweet
voice was often heard singing to the child, which generally hung at her back, nestled in its
soft bed of moss.

CHAPTER X.

‘The noble courser broke away.
   And bounded o'er the plain?
The desert echoed to his tread,
   As high he toss'd his graceful head,
And shook his flowing name.

King of the Western deserts! Thou
   Art still untam'd and free!
Ne'er shall that crest he forced to bow
Beneath the yoke of drudgery low:
But still in freedom shalt thou roam
The boundless fields that form thy home
   Thy native Prairie!'	ANON.

The camp of the Indian hunters looked cheerful and picturesque, as Oriana and Mailah approached
it one evening on their return from a ramble in the forest, where they had been to seek the
wild fruits that now abounded there, and paused at the skirt of the wood, to admire the scene
before them.  The proposed hunting-ground had been reached the preceding day, and already the
temporary huts were completed, and the tents of the Sachem pitched beneath a grove of lofty
oaks and walnuts, free from underwood, and on the border of a clear and rippling stream. The
Nausett and Pequodee hunters had purchased a considerable number of horses from their Cree
friends; and, therefore, the journey from Chingook's village to the prairie, in which the encampment
now stood, had been performed with much ease and expedition; and the hardy animals were so
little fatigued by their march through the forest, that several of the younger Indians had
mounted again the morning after their arrival, and gone off on a reconnoitering expedition,
to discover what prospect there was of finding much game in that neighborhood.

Henrich--proud and happy in the possession of a spirited horse, with which Tisquantum had presented
him--insisted on being one of the party; end he was accompanied, also, by Jyanough, who had
left his native village, now rendered sad and gloomy in his eyes, to follow his white friend,
and share his society at least for a time. This arrangement gave Henrich the greatest satisfaction
for the young Cree was the only Indian of his own sex in whom he had been able to find a companion,
or who had peculiarly attached himself to the stranger: and the more he saw of Jyanough the
more he found in him to win his esteem and friendship.

Oriana and Mailah seated themselves on the luxuriant grass to rest; and the young Indian mother
removed her child from the strange cradle in which she always carried it, and laid it on her
knees; and then, after gazing at it for a few moments, she began to sing a wild, sweet song,
to hush it to sleep. In a soft, monotonous cadence, she sang the sad story of its little life--its
birth--its captivity--and the death of its murdered father, whom she exhorted it to imitate,
and live to equal in courage and in skill. And thus she sang:

'Child of the slain Lincoya, sleep In peace!  Thy mother wakes to guard thee. But where is
he whose smile once fell on thee as sunshine--thy father, Lincoya?  He is gone to the far distant
hunting-grounds and there, again, he casts the spear; and there he draws the unerring bow;
and there he quaffs the cup of immortality, with the spirits of the good and brave. O Lincoya!
thy voice was to me as a sweet song, or as the summer breeze among the tall cypress trees--why
didst thou leave me? Thy step was swift and graceful as the roe upon the mountains--why didst
thou leave me? But I will follow thee, my warrior, The death-bird has called me, and I come
to thee! Thy child shall live; for Mahneto has given him friends and a home.  He shall grow
up like thee, and Oriana shill be o mother to him when I am gone: and the blue-eyed stranger,
whom she loves as I loved thee, shall guide his hand in war, and in the chase. Lincoya! I come
to thee!’

Oriana listened to the mournful chant of the young widow with much interest and sympathy; but
when she spoke of her love for her white brother, in terms so new and strange, she almost felt
offended.  She did not, however, remark on her friend's allusion to herself, but turned the
discourse to Mailah's sad prophecy of her own early death, which she knew could only be grounded
on one of the wild superstitions of her race.

'Why do you talk of dying, Mailah?' she asked.  'You are young and strong; and you may again
be happy. Why do you say you will leave your child, and go to the land of spirits?'

'The death-bird[*] called to me last night, as I sat at the open door of the hut, and looked
at the moon, and thought how its soft light was guiding my Lincoya on long, long, journey,
to the everlasting hunting fields of his fathers. Cheepai-Peethees called me twice from the
tree that hung over the lodge; but when I called to it again, and whistled clearly, it made
no answer. I heard it the day before the Crees destroyed our village. It called my husband
then, and would not answer him; and in two days he was slain. The death-bird is never mistaken.’

[Footnote: A small owl called Cheepai-Peethees, or the death-bird, which the Indians attach
the superstition here alluded to, and believe, if it does not answer to their whistle, it denotes
their speedy death.]

‘O, Mailah!' replied the young Christian squaw, 'say not so. Surely it is not thus that the
great Mahneto calls His children to come to Him. Once I believed all these Indian stories;
but now I know that they are false and vain. I know that our lives, and all things that befall
us, are in the hands of the wise and good God--the Mahneto of the Christians and of the red
men too. And now I have no fear of any of those strange sounds that used to make me sad, and
terrify me with thoughts of coming evil. I most teach you to believe as I do now: or, rather,
my white brother shall teach you; for he knows the words of Mahneto himself. See, Mailah! There
my brother comes--let us go to meet him.'

A flush of joy mounted to the clear olive cheek of Oriana as she said these words, and she
sprang to her feet with the lightness of a fawn. Mailah rose more gently, and replacing her
infant in the pouch, slung it over her shoulder, and followed her friend, softly whispering
in her ear,  ‘The white stranger is your Lincoya.'

The Indian beauty smiled, and blushed more deeply: but she did not bound across the glade to
meet Henrich as she had purposed doing. She drew her slender figure to its full height, and
stood still; and as Henrich galloped across the green meadow, and alighted, full of animation,
to tell her of his success in his first essay at hunting the elk, he wondered why she greeted
him so coldly.

The fact was that Oriana was beginning to find that the blue-eyed stranger possessed even more
interest in her eyes than she had ever felt for her own dark brother, Tekon; and when Mailah
had openly alluded to this sentiment--which she thought unknown to all but herself--her natural
and instinctive delicacy was wounded.  But the feeling quickly wore away; and as Henrich and
Jyanough detailed the exciting sports of the day, she forgot all but the pleasure of listening
to his voice, and gazing at his fine countenance and bright sweet smile. She was happy; and
she though not of the future.

And Henrich was happy, too. He had now found companions whom he could love; and the life of
the Indian hunters was all that he had ever pictured to himself of freedom and adventure. The
beauty of the scenery--the clearness of the sky--and the glow of health and excitement that
animated his whole frame when he joined in the chase with his savage friends, were all so entirely
different to the life he had led in damp and foggy Holland, that it was no wonder he enjoyed
it, and that his youthful spirits enabled him to subdue the oft-recurring grief that he felt
at each remembrance of his family and his home. Hope was strong in his breast; and he trusted
once again to meet all whom he loved so dearly: and the present was so bright and inspiring
that he could not desire to change it yet.

For many weeks the camp remained pitched in the same lovely situation; and the time of the
hunters was fully occupied in the discovery and pursuit of the various wild animals that abounded
in the uncultivated, but richly verdant, prairie. Of these, the elk and the buffalo were the
most common victims to the spears and arrows of the Indians; and every evening large quantities
of meat were brought into the camp, and given to the care of the squaws to dry and cure for
winter consumption. These larger animals were too heavy to be transported whole to the huts;
end therefore the hunters always skinned them and cut off the flesh where they fell, and left
the carcasses to the wolves and the birds of prey that were ever ready at hand. But the smaller
animals, and the wild turkeys and other birds, that were killed in great numbers, were brought
in and thrown down by the blazing camp fires, that lighted up the glade every night, and were
speedily prepared and cooked for the supper of the hungry hunters.

As the leader of the expedition, Tisquantum was always presented with the choicest of the game;
and it was Oriana's task to superintend the curing of the elk and buffalo meat, and the cooking
that was required for her father's lodge. In all these household cares she was greatly assisted
by Mailah, who was both active and skilful in all the duties of an Indian squaw: and eager
also to evince her gratitude for the kindness and protection that were afforded to herself
and her child by the Nausett Chief, by doing all that she could to lighten Oriana's labors.
Time and occupation did not fail to have their usual effect on one so young, and naturally
so light-hearted as Mailah; and animated cheerfulness took the place of the mournful expression
that had hitherto so frequently sat on her countenance. She did not forget Lincoya; but she
forgot the call of the death-bird: and when she sang her child to sleep, it was no longer with
the same sad cadence as at first. Sorrow could not strike very deep, or abide very long in
the heart of a being so gay, and with a mind and feelings so utterly uncultivated as those
of the young Stone Indian. Neither could she live so much in the society of the white stranger,
and his two chosen companions, without imbibing something of their intelligence, and becoming
sensible of their superiority of mind to all others with whom she had ever associated: and
she grew more and more attached to them, and learnt to regret less the friends and companions
among whom her youth had been spent.

She was a high-spirited and courageous creature: she would have followed her husband unhesitatingly
to death, had she been called on to do so; or she would have died to save him, if her life
could have availed to purchase his. But now that he was gone, and she could not even weep over
his grave, and deck it with flowers and gifts, her lively spirit rose again, and led her to
seek amusement and occupation in everything within her reach.

The accounts which Henrich and Jyanough continually gave to her and Oriana of their exciting
adventures in the prairie, had aroused in both of them a strong desire to be spectators of
the sport; and they sought and obtained Tisquantum's permission to accompany the hunters one
morning to the buffalo ground that lay nearest to the camp, and there to witness the pursuit
and capture of some of those magnificent animals.

A short ride through the forest brought the party out upon a vast and glorious prairie, on
which the rich autumnal sun was shining in all his strength. On a rising ground that partially
overlooked the plain, Oriana and her companion took up their position, beneath the shade of
a grove of pines; and they watched the hunters as they examined the foot- prints on the dewy
turf, or followed the tracks of the elks and buffaloes through the long prairie-grass, in order
to make their arrangements for enclosing the game and driving the animals into an open and
central situation.

In the course of this examination, the recent tracks of a number of wild horses were discovered,
and fresh excitement was felt by the whole party, for all were desirous to attempt the capture
of these most valuable animals; and they resolved, on this occasion, to make them the chief
objects of their pursuit. A ring was, therefore, formed by the numerous company of horsemen,
enclosing a very large space of the beautiful park-like ground, which was studded with trees,
either single or in groups; while underneath them, in the distance, could be seen many buffaloes
lying down or grazing.  The scene had the appearance of a wide extent of finely-cultivated
pasture, ornamented with timber of every kind; end it forcibly recalled to Henrich's memory
the fields and the cattle that had surrounded his European home. But the size of the trees,
the extent of the natural meadow, and, above all, the wild aspect of the red hunters with their
spears, and bows, and tomahawks, soon destroyed the fancied resemblance; while the eagerness
and excitement of the novel sport banished all the sad recollections to which it had given
rise. A desire also to distinguish himself in the presence of Oriana, and show her that a pale-face
could equal her own dark race in courage and dexterity, inspired him with peculiar ardor; and
he galloped to the station appointed him by Tisquantum, with a heart that bounded with pride
and pleasure.

The hunters were each provided with a long coil of grass rope, with a noose at the end--now
called a lariat or lasso--used by the Indians for casting over the horns of the elks and buffaloes,
or the necks of the wild horses, that they desired to capture.  These they carried in such
a manner as to be ready to throw them off in an instant to their whole length, if necessary;
but much practice is required to do this with precision, and Henrich did not yet hope for success
in the difficult art. His only chance of capturing a wild courser lay in his skill in casting
the spear, which might enable him to pierce the animal through the upper part of the neck,
and thus produce a temporary insensibility, during which time he might be secured without any
permanent injury. This also requires great precision and address; but Henrich had become an
adept in the use of the light lance, and he felt sanguine of success if the opportunity should
he afforded him.

The string of horsemen slowly and warily drew in towards the open spot that was intended to
be the scene of their operations, and of which Oriana and Mailah had a good view from their
safe and elevated position; and soon a troop of wild horses were disturbed by one of the hunters,
and burst forth from a thick grove of trees that had previously concealed them. They rushed
madly over the plain, mingling with the affrighted buffaloes and American deer, that had not
hitherto perceived the stealthy approach of their foes. At every point where they attempted
to escape from the enclosure they were met by a mounted huntsman, and were driven back, with
shouts and cries, towards the center. All other game was now forgotten; and each hunter singled
out, for his own object of pursuit, the steed that pleased him best, and of which he thought
he could most easily gain possession.  But one there was--the leader of the troop--on which
many eyes were fixed with eager desire. He was a noble creature, of perfect form and proportions;
and as he pranced before his companions, with neck erect, and throwing his head from side to
side, as if to reconnoiter his assailants--while his mane and tail floated in the breeze, and
his glossy coal-black skin gave back the rays of the morning sun--he looked like the King of
the Prairie, going forth in the pride of perfect freedom.

The ring grew smaller and smaller; and every hand was steady, and every eye was fixed for the
moment of trial: and soon the headlong pursuit commenced. At the first scattering of the wild
troop, several of the younger and more feeble horses were secured; and some of the hunters,
who despaired of nobler game, contented themselves with capturing or slaying either elks or
buffaloes.  But the finest horses escaped the first assault, and broke through the circling
ring into the boundless meadow, where they were followed at mad speed by the hunters, poising
their spears, and swinging their nooses round their heads, ready for a cast. Henrich and Jyanough,
and several others of the best mounted Indians, had joined in the chase of the black leader,
and dashed furiously after him over the plain. The horse that the English boy rode was strong
and fleet, and the light weight of his rider enabled him to keep with the foremost of the red
hunters' steeds, and, at length, to come almost alongside the noble courser. The spear was
poised in Henrich's hand, and was just about to fly, when suddenly his horse fell to the ground,
and rolled over on the turf, leaving his rider prostrate, but uninjured, except being stunned
for a moment by the shock.

When he opened his eyes, and sprang to his feet, he saw the king of the desert galloping up
a rising ground, over which he quickly disappeared, still hotly pursued by Coubitant  and several
of the hunters. Jyanough and the rest of his companions, had dismounted to assist their fallen
friend, and to form conjectures as to the probable cause of the unlucky accident. For some
time none could be perceived; but on carefully examining his horse, Henrich at length discovered
a small wound in the hind leg, and found that the creature was lame. How, or by whom, the wound
had been given, he could not even surmise; for in the eagerness of the chase he had not observed
that Coubitant rode close behind him: and that he had passed him at full speed the moment his
horse stumbled and fell.  But Jyanough had remarked it; and from what he had already seen of
the wily Indian, he felt convinced that, prompted by malicious jealousy, he had thus sought
to deprive his rival of his hoped-for success, and, perhaps, even to inflict on him some grievous
personal injury.

The young Indian had, however, the good sense to conceal his suspicions from Henrich at present,
and to allow him to regard the whole affair as accidental; but he determined to keep a strict
watch over the conduct of Coubitant for the future, and, if possible, to guard his friend from
all his evil machinations.

Soon the Nausett and the rest of the hunters returned from their fruitless chase, and reported
the escape of the noble wild coursers and when Jyanough heard the regrets that Coubitant expressed
for the accident that had befallen Henrich, and the condolences he offered on his having thus
missed the object which otherwise his skill most surely have attained, he could scarcely contain
his indignation at such hypocrisy, or refrain from opening the eyes of the unsuspicious young
Englishman.

They all returned together, at a slow pace, to the main body of the hunters, for Henrich's
horse was too lame to be mounted; and, as soon as the adventure was made known, much sympathy
and interest were shown for the disappointment of the pale-face, in which Oriana's countenance
and manner showed she partook so warmly, that Coubitant turned aside to conceal his anger and
vexation, and heartily wished that his well-aimed blow had not only deprived Henrich of the
glory of that day's hunting, but had also put a stop for ever to the success for which he both
hated and envied him.

The sport continued, after this interruption, as actively as before, but neither Henrich nor
his horse could take any further share in it; and he remained with Oriana and Mailah, enjoying
the beauty of the scenery, and gathering flowers and fruit for his companions, and for the
little. Lincoya, who, freed from the restraint of his moss-lined bed, now rolled on the turf
with Rodolph, and played with the gentle and intelligent animal.

How happy was Oriana that day! She was proud of the gallant bearing of her 'white brother'
among the red warriors of her own wild race, and she had exulted at the praises which she had
heard bestowed on his address as a hunter, and his shill in horsemanship, by Tisquantum and
the elder Indians; and now, though she regretted his accident, and the disappointment which
it had caused him, she did not suspect that it had been effected by the malice of a deadly
enemy, and she rejoiced that it had given her the pleasure of his society for the rest of the
day--a pleasure which she had but seldom enjoyed since their arrival in the prairie.

At the close of the day the game was collected, and, after due preparation, was carried back
to the camp, where the squaws had already lighted the evening fires, and made every necessary
arrangement for cooking the expected supper.  Around these fires the hunters sat in groups,
and discussed the events of the day, among which the accident that had befallen the pale-face
excited much interest and conjecture. Jyanough listened to the probable and improbable causes
that were assigned by all the speakers, especially by Coubitant, to account for so strange
a circumstance; but he held his peace, for in his inmost soul he was only more and more convinced
that the subtle and dark- brewed savage was the perpetrator of the malicious deed.

In this suspicion, he was the more strongly confirmed by an event that occurred a few days
afterwards. It had been discovered that the stream that ran so gently by the side of the encampment
fell, at some distance to the west, into a river of considerable size and depth, which then
ran on over a descending and rocky bed, forming alternately smooth broad sheets of water and
noisy broken falls, until it precipitated itself over a sudden precipice of great depth, and
fell dashing and foaming into the basin which its continual fall had worn in the rocks below.
The distant roar of this cataract had frequently been heard in the camp, when the wind came
from that direction, and when the stillness of the night--broken only by the occasional howl
of wild beasts seeking their prey, or the melancholy cry of the goat-sucker[*]— succeeded to
the sounds of labor or idleness that generally kept the temporary village alive by day. But,
hitherto, no one had had leisure or inclination to leave the excitement and novelty of hunting
to explore the river, or ascertain its capabilities for fishing.

[Footnote: This mournful sound is believed by the Indians to be the moaning of the departed
spirits of women who have committed infanticide; and who are, consequently, excluded by Mahneto
from the happy mountains which are the abode of the blessed.]

Now, however, Coubitant brought in a report one evening that the great stream abounded in fish;
and proposed in to Henrich that, as he was for the present unable to join in the more active
business of the chase, he should assist him in forming a light canoe, in which they could go
out and spear the game that lay beneath the clear blue water in the smooth reaches of the river.

To this proposal Henrich readily assented; for the sport was one of which he had beard his
Indian friends speak with great pleasure, and he greatly wished to enjoy it. The canoe was
immediately commenced; and as it merely consisted of the trunk of a straight tulip-tree, hollowed
out by means of fire, and shaped with a hatchet, it was completed in a couple of days.

The light spears that were to pierce the fish were prepared, and long slender lines of twisted
grass were fastened to their shafts for the purpose of drawing in their prey; and the following
morning, when the hunters were ready to set out on their usual expedition, Coubitant desired
Henrich to accompany him to the river side, where their little bark lay ready to receive them.
Why, on hearing this proposal, did Jyanough still linger when all the rest of the hunters were
mounted, and his own steed was pawing the ground, impatient of his master's delay? And why,
after gazing a few moments at Coubitant's dark countenance, did he declare his wish to join
the fishing party, and requested the Nausett to allow him to take a place in the canoe? Did
he see treachery in that eye of fire? Jyanough could lend his horse to the pale-face, if he
should happen to wish to hunt.

His request was, however, negatived decidedly by Coubitant; who assured him, with assumed courtesy,
that he regretted the size of the boat was too small to admit of its carrying a third sportsman
with safety; but invited him to join him in the same sport the following day, when, he added--with
that smile that Oriana hated--Jyanough could lend his horse to the pale-face, if he should
happen to wish to hunt.

The young Cree was baffled. He would gladly have pre vented his friend from accompanying Coubitant
on the expedition; but be had no means of doing so, or even of putting him on his guard against
any possible evil designs on the part of his companion. So he sprang upon his eager horse,
and galloped after the hunters, hoping that his fears and suspicions were unfounded.

Oriana and Mailah, attended by their faithful companion Rodolph, walked down to the edge of
the river, to see the fishermen embark in their frail vessel; and, for some time, they watched
the sport with considerable interest, and admired the skill with which Coubitant pierced and
brought up several large fish. These he attracted towards the canoe by means of some preparation
that he scattered on the surface of the water; and when the fish appeared within reach of his
spear, he darted it with unerring aim, and drew in his struggling victim with the line that
was attached to it. Henrich was also provided with weapons; but as the sport was entirely new
to him, he found it difficult to take a steady aim, and his success was slight.

Coubitant, however, had soon secured a considerable stock of fish, and he rowed to the shore,
and requested Oriana and her companion to convey them to the Sachem's lodge; adding, in a careless
tone, that it would not be worth their while to return to the river, as he was going to a reach
at some distance down the stream, towards the head of the cataract, where he expected to show
Henrich excellent sport.

The two young women returned to the camp; and, having committed the fine fish to the care of
the inferior squaws, they agreed to go again towards the river, and take this opportunity of
visiting the falls, which they much desired to see, and near which they should probably again
meet the fishermen. They rambled through the wood, taking a direct course towards the cataract,
the sound of whose waters soon became sufficiently audible to guide them in their unknown way.
Sometimes they came in sight of the river; and again they saw the little canoe, either standing
motionless on the smooth surface of the water where the stream was wide and unbroken, or else
passing, under the skilful guidance of Coubitant, between the rocks that occasionally disturbed
its course, and formed foaming rapids, down which the little bark darted with fearful velocity.

The last reach of the broad river was as calm and smooth as a lake. It seemed as if the collected
mass of water, which had gathered there from many a broken and troubled stream, and had struggled
through many windings and many difficulties, was reposing there, and gaining strength for its
last great leap over the dark precipice. As Oriana and Mailah approached the verge of the scattered
forest, and stood to gaze on the magnificent scene before them, they perceived the canoe descend
a narrow rapid, and then take up a position below an elevated mass of rock, where the water
was perfectly still, and where the fishermen could quietly pursue their occupation. They evidently
did not perceive their female friends, and the roar of the cataract was now so loud as to prevent
all possibility of their hearing their voices. For a short time Oriana and her friend watched
their movements, and saw several fish captured; and then proceeded along the steep and rocky
bank, in order to obtain a still better view of the waterfall.

It was a beautiful scene on which those two young Indians looked; and they felt its power and
grandeur, and stood silent and motionless. The cataract was beneath them; and its roar came
up like thunder from the dark deep basin into which its weight of waters fell, and threw up
a cloud of foam and spray; and then it rushed away again, as if in gladness at its safe descent
and free course, until the shining stream was hidden by the rocks and overhanging trees that
marked its winding course. The natural platform on which Oriana and Mailah stood, commanded
a view not only of the wild cataract and the lower stretch of the river, but also of the bold
steep rocks on the opposite side, and the dark forest that stretched away to the distant mountains
that bounded the horizon.  It likewise enabled them to perceive the small canoe, lying motionless
on the water, in the shadow of the projecting rock.

By and by the boat was rowed into the center of the river, and Coubitant appeared to be seeking
for a good fishing spot, as he pointed in different directions, and once or twice darted his
spear into the water, and drew it out again without any success. Meanwhile, the canoe floated
slowly down the stream, but its motion gradually increased as it approached the fall; and Oriana
gazed at it, expecting every moment that Coubitant, who had now taken the oar in his powerful
grasp, would turn its course, and either draw towards the shore; or else row back again up
the river, and land below the first rapids. To her surprise, and somewhat to her anxiety, he
still continued, however, to allow the canoe to proceed; and she saw Henrich take a dart in
his hand, and stand erect as if to strike at something beneath the surface, to which Coubitant
pointed with the paddle. Another instant, and her white brother was in the water, and struggling
to catch the side of the canoe! Breathlessly she gazed; and she distinctly saw the paddle which
Coubitant held, extended towards the uplifted hand of Henrich. Still he did not grasp it! O!
why was this? And then the boat, which bad already floated perilously near to the fall, was
Suddenly turned, and she beheld Coubitant making violent efforts to overcome the force of the
current, and row to the opposite and nearest shore. He was alone!

And where was Henrich? Where was the brave young stranger? Battling desperately with the rapid
stream which was carrying him onward to destruction. He rose and sank, rose again, and the
current bore him on with resistless force. For a moment, Oriana clasped her hands over her
eyes, to shut out the dreadful sight; and then, as if inspired by a gleam of supernatural hope,
she darted forward, calling Rodolph, and pointing to the stream. The intelligent creature had
seen the form of Henrich in the water, and only waited his mistress's command to risk his life
in the attempt to save him.  But his sagacity taught him that it was useless to enter the river
above the fall; and he bounded down the steep bank that led to its foot, and stood eager, and
panting, on a point of rock that overhung the basin. Oriana was quickly on the same spot, followed
by Mailah; but ere they reached it, the dog had plunged into the foaming waters, and now appeared,
upholding the inanimate form of Henrich, and struggling fearfully to drag him from the whirlpool.

O, it was a sickening sight! and Oriana's heart stood still in the agony of suspense She could
not aid her brother! She could not cope with that mad whirl of water! But she leaped down the
steep rocks, and stood on the narrow ledge of shore below, to wait the moment for action. At
length--after what appeared almost a hopeless conflict with the dashing waters--Rodolph appeared
through the cloud of foam and slowly and feebly swam towards the shore, still supporting the
lifeless burden that seemed almost to drag him beneath the surface.

Now was the time for the Indian girl to prove her skill and courage. Lightly she sprang into
the water, and in a moment she was at Rodolph’s side; and, with one arm sustaining the drooping
head of Henrich, while, with the other, she dexterously swam back to the spot where Mailah
stood ready to assist her. With much difficulty they lifted the senseless form of Henrich on
the shore, and proceeded to adopt every means in their power to restore suspended animation;
while Rodolph--the faithful devoted Rodolph--lay down panting and exhausted, but still keeping
a watchful eye on him whom he had so daringly rescued. Long the two young Indians labored in
silence, and almost in despair; for no color returned to those pallid lips, and no warmth was
perceptible in the chilled and stiffened hands, that fell powerless by his side. Still they
persevered: and no tear, no lamentation, betrayed the anguish that wrung the heart of Oriana,
while she believed that all was in vain. But her soul was lifted up in prayer to the One True
God, in whom she had been taught to put her trust by her beloved  ‘white brother’: and in His
mercy was her only hope.

Nor was that hope in vain. The warm beams of the mid-day sun fell powerfully on that sheltered
spot where the little group were gathered, and, combined with the continued friction that Oriana
and Mailah employed, at length brought back the life-blood to Henrich's cheeks and lips, and
his anxious nurses had the joy of perceiving that he breathed. A few minutes more, and he opened
his deep blue eyes, and looked wildly around him, and spoke some English words that Oriana
heard amid the din of the falling waters, and knew were of his home and his kindred. And then
he uttered her own name, and attempted to rise, but fell back again into her arms, and smiled
sweetly and gratefully when her eyes met his, and he saw that she was watching over him. There
was joy--deep joy and gratitude--in those young hearts at that moment; but Henrich's weakness,
and the noise of, the roaring cataract, prevented them from communicating their feelings in
words, and Oriana forbore to ask any questions of Henrich relative to the cause of his perilous
adventure.

After some time he seemed greatly to recover, and, rising from the ground, he slowly mounted
the bank, supported by Oriana and her friend. But it was evident that he was quite unable to
proceed on foot to the camp, and it was agreed that Mailah should return as quickly as possible
and bring such assistance as she could procure from thence, while Henrich and Oriana should
advance as far as his enfeebled state would admit of.

Mailah's light form soon disappeared in the wood, and it was not long ere she reached the camp,
and hastened to the tent of Tisquantum, who, on that day, had not joined the hunting party.
She told her story, in which the old Chief showed the deepest interest; and she observed a
dark frown on his brow while she related the unsuccessful attempts of Coubitant to draw Henrich
from the water with his paddle; but he made no remark.

The hunters were still absent, and few men remained in the camp. These were all engaged in
felling wood and other laborious employments, and Tisquantum prepared to lead his own horse
out to meet his adopted son. But, just as he and Mailah were leaving the camp for this purpose,
Coubitant came rapidly up from the river's brink, and, hurrying towards them, began to relate,
with expressions of grief and consternation, the sad fate which he believed to have befallen
the young stranger, and the exertions that he had made to save his life, but which had, unhappily,
proved unavailing to avert the calamity. The sorrow of the Nausett Indian seemed excessive;
and Tisquantum probably considered it so, for he listened with perfect calmness to his recital,
and then merely replied, 'Happily, the youth is safe.  Mahneto has succored him, and I go to
bring him back to the camp.'

Coubitant started: and he looked embarrassed for a moment, when he caught the penetrating eye
of Mailah fixed on his countenance. But he quickly recovered his self-possession, and manifested
such joy at the escape of the white stranger from a watery grave, that Mailah almost chid herself
for her dreadful suspicions.

Coubitant accompanied her and the Sachem on their way through the forest, and when they met
Henrich and Oriana, he again assumed such an appearance of pleasure, and so warmly congratulated
the former on his miraculous deliverance, that the generous English youth strove to banish
from his mind the fearful thoughts that had arisen there while he struggled for life close
to the canoe, and wondered at the want of skill and strength displayed by his companion in
his abortive attempts to save him. Oriana coldly received his greeting.  She had long suspected
that he regarded Henrich with hatred and jealousy; and her worst suspicions had that day received
a strong confirmation. Still she resolved to conceal them--at least at present--from all but
Jyanough, whose friendship for Henrich would, she knew, render him peculiarly alive to all
that concerned his safety.

She had not long to wait, for the hunters soon returned; and she observed that, when Jyanough
heard the story of the day's adventure, he cast a glance on Coubitant that made the conscious
savage quail. But when she related to the young Cree all that she and Mailah had observed,
he could restrain his feelings no longer, and plainly told her that he was convinced that Coubitant
was the author of the calamity, and that it was not the first attempt he had made at Henrich's
life.

They resolved that he should communicate all his suspicions to the Sachem the following morning,
and urge him to take measures for the safety of his adopted son: but what was Jyanough's surprise,
when he opened the subject to Tisquantum, at being informed that Coubitant had already left
the camp with the Pequodees! Jyanough knew that it was their intention that morning, at day-break,
to set off on their return to their own woods and plains, and he found that the wily Nausett
had expressed a desire to accompany them, and join in the war that was going on between their
tribe and some of their neighbors, in order to distinguish himself as a warrior. It was not
the Sachem's intention to rejoin his tribe for a considerable time. He was fond of wandering,
and proposed to travel towards the north when the hunting season should be over; and he also
felt a reluctance to take his now greatly beloved captive back to that part of the country
where it was possible he might gain intelligence of his friends, or, perhaps, even make his
escape to them. He had, therefore, consented to Coubitant's request, and evidently felt an
undefined satisfaction in his absence.

This being the case, and the departure of Coubitant having removed all present danger to Henrich
from his malicious schemes, Jyanough forbore to express all he felt to the old Sachem; and
he returned to Oriana with the pleasant intelligence that the enemy of her white brother had
departed.

To the young Squaw-Sachem this news imparted infinite relief; and even Henrich could not regret
it, although he found it difficult to believe that all the suspicions of his friends were well-founded.
Still the events of the preceding day were quite sufficient to make him doubt more than ever
the sincerity of Coubitant's professed regard; and he felt that he should be happier now that
the dark-browed savage was gone. To his pleasant life of freedom we will now leave him, and
return to New Plymouth, where many events--deeply interesting to the settlers--had occurred
since his involuntary departure, and supposed death.

CHAPTER  XI.

'There went a dirge through the forest's gloom. …An exile was borne to a lonely tomb, “Brother;”--so
the chant was sung In the slumberer’s native tongue-- “Friend and brother! not for thee Shall
the sound of weeping be.”’     HEMANS.

Sadly and slowly the Pilgrim Fathers passed along the scattered village of log huts which was
their home in their voluntary exile, and wound up the pathway that led towards the summit of
the mount, afterwards called 'the Burying Hill,' on which they had constructed a rude fort
or storehouse, and whither they were now bearing to his last earthly home the chief and the
most respected of their community. The Governor Carver--he who had presided over their councils,
and directed all their movements since the memorable day of their landing, and had been the
friend, the physician, the comforter of his little flock, through all their trials and all
their sufferings--had fallen a victim to disease and over-exertion, just as spring, with all
its brighter hopes for the future, had set in.

It was but a few days after Henrich's capture that this heavy affliction befell the colony,
and added greatly to the gloom which the loss of young Maitland had already cast over the whole
village. The departure, also, of the vessel in which the Pilgrims had come out to America,
occurred at the same time; and, although not one of the exiles desired to return to the land
of their birth, and to abandon the enterprise on which they had entered so devotedly, yet it
was a melancholy hour when they bade adieu to the captain and his crew, and saw the Mayflower
sail away towards their still much-loved, country.

The scurvy and other diseases—combined with the hardships and privations to which they had
been exposed during the winter and early spring--had fearfully reduced the number of the ship's
company; and of those who remained, the greater part were weakened by illness, and dispirited
by the loss of so many of their brave comrades, whose graves they had dug on the bleak shores
of New England. The return of spring, and the supply of provisions that the settlers were able
to obtain from the friendly Indians, had checked the progress of the fatal complaints that
had so fearfully ravaged the colony during the severity of winter; and had restored the survivors
of the ship's crew to comparative health and strength. The captain was, therefore, glad to
seize the first opportunity of abandoning a shore which had presented to him so cheerless and
melancholy an aspect, and of leaving the steadfast and devoted exiles to the fate which they
had chosen, and which they were resolved to abide in faith and hope.

On the very day that the Mayflower set sail, and while its white sails could still be distinguished
in the eastern horizon, the Governor--who took an active part in every occupation, and even
every labor that engaged the settlers--was busily employed in sowing corn in the fields that
were considered as the common property of the colony. In directing and superintending this
work, he was greatly assisted by the skill and experience of Squanto, the native who, as we
have already related, had been so treacherously carried off to England by Hunt, and had, on
his return to America, sought out, and attached himself to, the settlers. By them he was greatly
regarded, and his knowledge of the English language rendered his services of inestimable value
in all their intercourse with the Indian tribes; while his acquaintance with the soil on which
they had established themselves, and the native modes of cultivating grain and other vegetable
produce, was of the greatest use to men who were only accustomed to European agriculture.

The maize and other grain were sown in the fields that had been richly manured with fish, to
ensure an abundant crop;[*] and the laborers returned in a body to the village, led by their
venerable and respected President; but no sooner had Carver re-entered his dwelling than he
swooned away and never recovered his consciousness. In a few days he breathed his last, to
the unutterable grief of his widow, and the deep regret of all the settlers, whose love and
confidence he had won during his brief government, by his clear-sighted wisdom and his universal
kindness.

[Footnote: It was the custom of the Indians to manure their fields with shads or allezes, a
small fish that comes up the rivers in vast numbers at the spawning season. About a thousand
fish were used for every acre of land; and a single alleze was usually put into every corn-hill,
when they buried their grain for winter consumption; probably as a charm to keep off the evil
demons and hostile wandering spirits.]

As his funeral procession wound up the hill, tears might be seen on the cheek of many a sturdy
Pilgrim; and sobs and lamentations broke forth from the women and children. After his remains
were laid in their resting-place, a fervent prayer was offered up by Brewster (whose age and
character caused him to be regarded as the pastor of the colony, although he had never been
called to the ministry after the custom of the Puritans); and then a hymn was sung by the united
voices of the whole congregation.

When this simple ceremony was over, and the grave of the departed President was closed, and
laid level with the surrounding ground--in order to conceal it from the prowling Indians--the
assembly repaired to the fort, or store-house, that stood on the summit of the hill, and which
also served the purpose of a meeting-house or chapel. Its rude end unadorned simplicity suited,
the peculiar ideas of the Puritans, who, in their zeal to escape from the elaborate ornaments
and pompous ceremonial employed by the Papists, had rushed into the opposite extreme, and desired
that both their place of worship, and their mode of performing it, should be divested of every
external decoration and every prescribed form. The more their place of meeting for prayer resembled
an ordinary habitation, the better they considered it suited to the sacred purpose; and they
were, therefore, perfectly satisfied to possess no other church than the rude fort, built of
logs and posts, and used indifferently as a granary for the public stores, and as a fortress
for the defense of the colony from any incursions of the hostile tribes.

In this primitive chapel, Brewster was accustomed to lead the devotions of the Pilgrims and
their families, every 'Lord's Day' morning and afternoon;[*] and also on any other occasion
of their assembling together. But as they were in continual expectation of the arrival of the
venerated John Robinson, to resume his office of regular pastor of the flock, they had not
taken any measures to gratify their ardent desire of hearing the 'blessed sermon' three times
en every Lord's Day, from some holy man entirely devoted to the service of God. The addresses
occasionally delivered to the congregation by Brewster, or by any other of the ruling elders
who might preside at a meeting, were called ‘discourses’ not sermons; and the interpretation
of certain portions of Scripture, which was sometimes undertaken by any member of the congregation
who felt equal to it, was called 'prophesying.' These were the only modes of spiritual instruction
employed by the first settlers, until they procured clergymen from England, or appointed ministers
from among their own elders; and these means were highly valued by the settlers, who had abandoned
home, and kindred, and the comforts of civilized life, for no other motive than to secure to
themselves the privilege of worshipping God according to their own ideas of what was good and
profitable to their souls. The talents and the elevated piety of William Brewster rendered
him both a very valuable teacher, and also, in the eyes of the Puritans, an efficient substitute
for their expected pastor.

[Footnote: The Puritans never used the names Sunday or Sabbath. They objected is the first
as savoring of Paganism and to the second as pertaining to Judaism; and yet they enforced the
observance of the Christian’s day of rest with almost Mosaic strictness.]

On the present mournful occasion he addressed the congregation, in a very impressive manner,
on the heavy loss they had sustained in the death of their valued President; and exhorted them
to remember and to imitate his piety, his charity, and his exemplary patience and self- denial,
under the trying circumstances that had marked the period of his brief government. These circumstances
had become less painful, it is true, since their friendly intercourse with the Wampanoges,
and the genial change in the weather; but still the trials of the Pilgrims were by no means
over, and their need of faith in the good providence of God, and of persevering resolution
in the path which they had chosen for themselves, remained as great as ever.

Deeply was the less of their first President felt by the colony, for every individual mourned
him as a private friend, as well as a wise end benevolent ruler. But the blow fell with more
crushing power on her who had shared his checkered life of joy and sorrow for many years in
Europe, and had accompanied him into exile, with the devoted feeling that his presence would
make the wilderness a home. His sudden removal, and the cheerless blank that succeeded, were
more than the strength of his afflicted widow could endure; and in six weeks she followed him
the grave. From that time, it appeared as if the severity of the scourge that had ravaged the
infant settlement was exhausted, for scarcely any more deaths occurred during that year; and
many who had hitherto suffered from the effects of disease, regained their usual strength,
and lived to a remarkably advanced age.

William Bradford was the individual selected by the community to fill the arduous and responsible
office that had been held so few months by Carver; and the choice was a most judicious one,
for he was a man well suited to be the leader of a colony exposed to the peculiar difficulties
that surrounded the Puritan exiles. His uncommon sagacity and penetration of character, and
his undaunted resolution in times of danger, caused him to be regarded as the very prop and
support of the settlement; and his worth was so generally acknowledged, and so highly appreciated,
that he continued to be annually elected Governor for twelve succeeding years: and never did
he disappoint the confidence thus reposed in him. His treatment of the Indians was one point
on which he showed both the correctness of his judgement, and the right feelings of his heart.
He ever acted towards them with true Christian benevolence and equity; and, at the same, he
preserved that authority and superiority over them which were necessary to the safety and well-
being of the colony; and he also carefully kept from them those European weapons, the possession
of which might render them dangerous to the settlers, and aggravate the frequent hostilities
among their own rival tribes. Unhappily, a different course was afterwards pursued by the leaders
of the colony of Massachusetts; and the evil con sequences of such short-sighted policy were
soon but too apparent, and tended to involve not only the new settlers, but also the original
colony of New Plymouth, in quarrels and disturbances with the natives.  This however, did not
occur for some time after the period of which we are now speaking; and, for the present, Bradford
succeeded in maintaining the best possible relations with the already friendly Wampanoges.

William Bradford had been originally brought up as a husbandman; and although he had abandoned
this calling to devote himself to the study of the Scriptures, and the writings of the Fathers--for
which purpose he had acquired the Latin, Greek, and Hebrew languages--he still retained such
a, know ledge of agriculture as proved extremely useful to him as the leader of a young colony,
whose support was to be mainly derived from the land of which they had taken possession.  He
also spoke French and Dutch fluently; and the diary and letters that he has left to posterity
show him to have been both a well informed and a truly pious man. When the Puritans left Amsterdam
under their pastor, John Robinson, and settled at Leyden, Bradford was scarcely twenty years
of age. He there learnt the art of dyeing silk, in order to support himself while he pursued
his theological studies, and also performed the part of historian to the community of which
he had become a member; and he remained with the congregation during all the years of their
residence in Holland, and attached himself with the most affectionate reverence to their generally
beloved and respected minister.

One of the first acts of his administration, as Governor of New Plymouth, was to send another
embassy to Masasoyt, the Great Sagamore of the whole Wampanoge tribe, in order to strengthen
and confirm his present amicable feelings towards the white men, by means of presents, and
other marks of friendship.  Squanto, as usual, accompanied the party as interpreter; and nothing
could be more satisfactory than the interview proved to all parties, especially to the Indian
Chief, who was made both proud and happy by the gift of a red military coat, adorned with silver
lace.  This he immediately put on, over the paint and other savage ornaments in which he was
decorated for the state occasion; and he greatly diverted the members of the embassy by the
increased air of dignity that he assumed, and the grandiloquous manner in which he began to
extol his own power and glory.

'Am I not,' he exclaimed, in a loud voice, 'Masasoyt, the great king? Am I not lord of all
the people of the Lowsons; and of such and such places? And he enumerated nearly thirty uncouth
Indian names of places over which he claimed sovereignty, his wild subjects uttering a yell
of joy and exultation in answer to each word he uttered. The savage monarch then proceeded
to ratify and augment the agreement into which he had already catered with Edward Winslow,
and promised to guarantee to the English settlers an exclusive trade with his tribe; at the
same time entreating them to prevent his powerful enemies, the Narragansetts, from carrying
on a commercial intercourse with the French colonists.

Notwithstanding the boasted power of this 'Chief of chiefs,' the scarcity of provisions was
so great in his village of Packanokick at the time of this embassy, that he was only able to
offer his white friends one meal during their visit to him, which lasted a day and two nights;
and this solitary display of regal hospitality consisted of two large fishes just caught in
a neighboring lake, and which were divided amongst forty hungry persons. In spite of this temporary
distress, he pressed the deputation to remain longer with him; but the object of their mission
having been attained, they were glad to leave the residence of the Sagamore, which possessed
far less of comfort and civilization than were to be found in the picturesque summer camp of
his son and inferior Sachem, Mooanam.

This lovely spot continued to be much frequented by the settlers, between whom and their copper-colored
neighbors a strong feeling of mutual regard became established; and this friendship proved
a great advantage to both parties, in a social as well as a political point of view. The Wampanoges
found the benefit of their alliance with the mighty English during the autumn of that year,
when the dread which their name and power had inspired proved a safeguard to the friendly Indian
tribe, and preserved them from a combined attack of several other tribes who had, by some mysterious
means, been instigated to unite for their destruction.

The intelligence of this conspiracy reached the settlers when a party of them were on the peninsula
of Cape Cod, whither they had gone to bring back a young English boy, named Francis Billington,
who had lost himself in the forest some time previously, and, after having subsisted for several
days on wild fruits and berries, had reached a camp of the Nausett Indians, hitherto so adverse
to the Pilgrims. This seemed a good opportunity for endeavoring to establish more friendly
relations with the tribe, and Bradford sent off ten men in the shallop to negotiate for the
boy's restoration, and to offer gifts to the Nausetts, who, happily, were not so cruel and
blood-thirsty a party as those who had kidnapped Henrich Maitland. The overtures of the settlers
were well received, and they presented the Chief of the village with a pair of knives, and
also returned to the natives a quantity of corn, more than equal to that which they had taken
from the graves and huts that they had discovered on their first landing, and which belonged
to the Nausetts. This act of justice gained for the settlers the esteem and confidence of the
Indians; and as these original possessors of the soil did not dispute the title of the newcomers
to the portion of the American soil on which they had established themselves, they considered
henceforth that their claim was valid, and that they could stand before the natives on terms
of equality.

The lost child was safely restored to Rodolph, who, as usual, shared the conduct of the expedition
with Edward Winslow. The joy and gratitude of the boy's father, at being permitted to convey
him home uninjured, may be better imagined than described; and while Maitland sympathized in
his feelings, he could not help sadly contrasting the fate of his own lost Henrich with that
of the more fortunate Francis Billington.  But he believed that his son's earthly career had
closed for ever; and both he and Helen had submitted to the bereavement with Christian piety
and resignation, and had taught their wounded hearts to restrain every impulse to repine, and
even to feel thankful that their beloved boy had been spared any protracted sufferings and
trials, and had been permitted so speedily to enter into his rest. Had they known his actual
late and condition, how much of painful anxiety would have mingled with the sorrow of separation,
from which they were now exempt!

The restoration of the little wanderer having been effected, and a good understanding having
been established with the Nausetts of Cape Cod, the negotiating party lost no time in returning
to New Plymouth, and communicating to Governor Bradford the intelligence of the conspiracy
against Masasoyt, to which allusion has already been made, and of which they had been informed
by the Nausett Sachem. The news was startling to Bradford and to his council, who all felt
the imperative necessity of using immediate efforts for the assistance of the friendly Wampanoges.
They were impelled to this resolution, not only in consideration of the alliance that had been
formed between themselves and the Sagamore Masasoyt, but also from a conviction that the safety
and welfare of the infant colony depended essentially upon their possessing the friendship
and the protection of some powerful tribe, like the Wampanoges, whose numbers and warlike character
caused them to be both feared and respected by their weaker neighbors. It could only be by
a combination of several tribes that any important defeat Of the Wampanoges could possibly
be effected: and such a combination the Nausetts declared they knew to have been already formed;
though by what means, and with what motive, remained at present a mystery.

The Indian interpreter, Squanto, was therefore sent off to Masasoyt's residence at Lowams,
in order to ascertain the grounds of the quarrel, and to effect, if possible, a reconciliation,
without the necessity of the Pilgrims having recourse to arms in defense of their allies. The
interpreter was also accompanied by Hobomak, a subject of the Wampanoge chieftain's, who had
lately left his own wigwams and settled among the English, and who had already attached himself
to the white men with an uncommon degree of devotion.  But ere the swarthy ambassadors reached
the village of Packanokick, they were suddenly attacked by a small party of Narragansett warriors,
who lay in ambush near their path through the forest, and were conveyed away captives to the
presence of a fierce looking Indian, who appeared to be a man of power and authority, and who
was evidently awaiting their arrival in a small temporary encampment at a little distance.

No sooner had Hobomak glanced at this dark chieftain, than he recognized Coubitant, the bitter
foe of the settlers, and the captor of Henrich Maitland.  Coubitant had originally been a subject
of the Sachem Masasoyt; but some offence, either real or imaginary, had converted him from
a friend into a bitter foe; and then it was that he had wandered towards the Spanish settlements,
and obtained that prejudiced notion of Christianity to which we have formerly alluded. When
tired of his wild roaming life, he had united himself to that portion of the Nausett tribe
which was under the guidance of Tisquantum; and his attachment to the Sachem's son, Tekoa,
had induced him to remain a member of the tribe during his life, and to devote himself to the
object of revenging his death, after that event had occurred at the first encounter with the
white settlers.

Hitherto that object had been frustrated by what appeared to him Tisquantum's incomprehensible
partiality fur Henrich, which had so entirely prevented his wreaking his vengeance on the innocent
son of the slayer. But his was not a revenge that could expire unsatiated, or change to friendship,
and expend itself in acts of kindness, as that of Tisquantum had done. No: the thirst for blood
remained as strong in the breast of Coubitant as it was on that very hour when he beheld his
brother-in-arms fall, bleeding and dying, beneath the mysterious firearms of the white men;
and he hoped still to pour forth the white man's blood, as an oblation to the spirit of his
friend. Therefore it was that, when he found himself foiled in all his malicious schemes for
Henrich's destruction, and also perceived that he was himself becoming an object of suspicion
to Jyanough and to the Sachem, he had resolved on quitting the Nausetts, and returning with
the Pequodees into the neighborhood of the English settlement. He hoped to stir up several
smaller tribes to join with the Narragansetts, and to make war against the Wampanoges--the
allies of the Pilgrims--and thus to deprive the hated whites of their aid and protection, and,
possibly, also to engage the settlers in the quarrel, and then to find an opportunity of taking
one or more of them captive, and slaking the desires of his vindictive spirit in the agonies
that he would inflict on his victims. Truly, 'the dark places' of his heart were ‘full of the
habitations of cruelty.'

These deep-laid schemes of the wily savage had hitherto met with full success; and by means
of deceit and misrepresentation, he had roused up and irritated the feelings of several Sachems
and their dependants, and induced them to agree to coalesce for the destruction of the Wampanoges,
and then to turn their arms against the settlers, with the view of expelling them altogether
from the country. His spies had discovered the intended embassy of Squanto and Hobomak to the
village of the great Sagamore of Lowams; and he had, consequently, taken effectual means to
intercept it, as he feared its having a favorable aspect.

On the captives being brought before him, he scornfully reproached them as the dastardly tools
of the white men, and as traitors to their own nation; and he declared his intention of detaining
Squanto as a prisoner, and as a hostage also, in order to ensure the return of Hobomak to New
Plymouth, with the message that be designed for the Governor. This message consisted of a threat--which
Hobomak well knew he would execute--that if, on being liberated, he proceeded to Packanokick,
instead of returning to the settlement, he would flay the unhappy Squanto alive, and send his
skin and scalp to the white-hearted English, to show them that the red men scorned their interference,
and knew how to punish it.

Hobomak departed, and reluctantly left his companion in the hands of the cruel Coubitant. But
he had no power to liberate him, and his only hope of obtaining any effectual succor for him,
was in hastening to New Plymouth, and persuading the Governor to send a well-armed force to
cut off the retreat of the Narragansetts and their leader, and attempt the rescue of their
caked interpreter. Hobomak was fleet of foot, and he rested not until he had arrived in Bradford's
presence, and told him of the fate that had befallen Squanto. Weak as the colonists were, and
sincerely desirous as they also felt to preserve peace with the natives, they yet deemed it
incumbent on them to show the Indians that they would not tamely submit to any insult or injury.
Captain Standish was, therefore, immediately dispatched with a body of fourteen men, well armed
and disciplined, who were at that time nearly all the men capable of bearing arms of whom the
colony could boast. Led by Hobomak, they rapidly traversed the forest, and came upon Coubitant's
party soon after they had left their encampment. The Indian leader had anticipated, and desired,
this result of his conduct; and his heart swelled with malignant joy when he beheld the hated
Rodolph among the foremost of the assailants. Now he deemed the evil spirit whom he worshipped
was about to repay him for all his abortive schemes and disappointed efforts, by throwing the
very object of his vengeful hatred into his power.

Forward he sprang, whirling his heavy tomahawk round his head, as if it had been a child's
toy, and preparing to bring it down on the white man's skull with a force that must have cloven
it in two.  But Standish saw the impending blow, and, quick as thought, he drew a pistol from
his belt, and fired it at the savage. The ball passed through his arm, and the tomahawk fell
bloodless to the ground. Had it but drunk the life-blood of Rodolph, Coubitant would have been
content to die. But his foe still lived unharmed; and quickly he saw that three of his own
followers were also severely wounded, and that his party of naked warriors were altogether
incapable of resisting the fierce and well- sustained attack of their civilized assailants.
His only chance of safety, and of future vengeance, lay in flight; and to that last resource
of a brave spirit he betook himself. He was quickly followed by all his band, who were dismayed
at the sound and the fatal effects of the British fire-arms and, leaving Squanto behind them,
they were soon concealed from view by the thick underwood of the forest. The object of the
expedition having been attained, Standish did not pursue the fugitives, but returned in triumph
to the settlement, well satisfied that he had given the Indians a salutary impression of the
decisive conduct, and the powerful measures, that would ever be adopted by the white men, when
their honor was insulted in the slightest degree.

That such an impression had been made on the red men was soon evident, from the anxiety which
was manifested by several of the neighboring tribes to be admitted into the semblance, at least,
of an alliance with the mighty strangers. Nine Sachems intimated their desire to acknowledge
themselves the subjects of the white men's king, who dwelt on the other side of 'the great
water'; and a paper was accordingly drawn up by Captain Standish to that effect, and subscribed
with the uncouth autographs of the copper-colored chieftains. Among these-- strange to say--the
mark of Coubitant, who had been raised to the rank of Sachem by the Narragansetts, was to be
seen; but the sincerity of his friendly professions will be shown hereafter. At present, it
suited him to unite with the other chiefs in their pledge of allegiance to King James, and
of amity towards his British subjects; but he never openly approached their settlement, or
made the slightest advance towards becoming better acquainted with them. His evil designs slept,
indeed, but they had not expired. They only waited the fitting opportunity to be as actively
pursued as ever.

CHAPTER XII.

‘Calm on the bosom of thy God,
    Young spirit! rest thee now!
E'en while with us thy footsteps trod
    His seat was on thy brow.

Dust to its narrow house beneath!
    Soul to its place on high!
They that have seen thy look in death,
    No more may fear to die.

Lone are the paths, and sad the bowers,
    Whence thy meek smile is gone
But oh! a brighter borne than ours,
    In Heaven, is now thine own.'    HEMANS.

We have observed that very few deaths took place in the colony of New Plymouth during the second
year of their exile, and after the fatal stroke that deprived them of their President; but
among those few, there was one that carried grief and desolation into the hearts of the family
with whom our story is chiefly connected, and who were already deeply afflicted by the loss
of the first-born.  Ludovico Maitland had always been a delicate child, and on him, consequently,
the care and attention of his mother had been principally bestowed. Helen had watched and tended
him through all the severities of the first winters in the New World, and many had been the
privations that she had voluntarily endured, unknown even to Rodolph, who would not have suffered
her thus to risk her own health, in order to add to the comforts of her youngest and most helpless
child. When the blessed springtime came, and all nature began again to smile, she hoped that
Ludovico would also be renovated, and bloom again like the flowers he loved so well. And her
hopes appeared to be realized: for the sweet playful child resumed his sports, and the bright
color again glowed on his soft cheek; and his parents deemed it the hue of health.

At the time when Henrich was stolen away, the little fellow had been remarkably well, and even
Helen's fears for him had almost subsided; but, whether it was the effect of the shock that
he sustained when he saw his brother seized by the fierce savages, and torn away from him,
and when he fled so breathlessly to tell the fearful tidings; or whether it was merely the
result of his own delicate constitution, which could no longer bear up against the change of
climate and food-- from that time, he visibly declined. It is true he never complained, and
his cheerful spirits were unaltered; but the watchful eye of affection could trace the insidious
steps of disease in the changing color, and the too frequently brilliant eye.

Since Edith had lost her constant friend and companion, Henrich, she naturally devoted herself
more to her younger brother, and little Ludovico became not only her lively play-fellow, but
also her intelligent pupil; and the occupation which she found in the care of the engaging
child served to divert her mind from the first real grief she had ever known. Her mother's
sorrow, though borne with the most perfect resignation, had greatly affected her health; and
as she had entire confidence in Edith's steadiness, she was glad to leave the care of Ludovico
principally to her, especially when she observed the good effect which the new responsibility
had on her spirits.  The two children were, therefore, left much to themselves; and, with their
mother's sanction they passed a great portion of their time at the camp of Mooanam, where they
were always most kindly received, and where they made rapid progress in acquiring the language,
and also many of the useful and ingenious arts, of their swarthy friends.

The departure of Coubitant and his savage band, after their cruel design against the peace
of Rodolph's family had been accomplished, removed all fears of injury or molestation from
the minds of the settlers; for no hostile Indians now remained in their immediate neighborhood,
and the path from New Plymouth to the village of the friendly Wampanoges became a beaten and
frequented track; so that Edith and her little charge could go to and fro in safety, under
the protection of Fingal, a magnificent dog belonging to their father, and their constant companion
and playfellow; and frequently they were accompanied, on their return to the British village,
by the Chieftain's wife, Apannow, and her little boy, Nepea, who was the darling of both Edith
and Ludovico.

A strong attachment also sprang up between Apannow and Helen; for the Squaw-Sachem was possessed
of much natural gentleness of disposition, and was most ready to adopt all those habits of
civilized life that she saw practiced among her English friends, and that it was possible for
her to transplant to her Indian home. She was, likewise, willing to listen to the doctrines
and precepts of the Gospel, and to admit their beauty and their holiness, although it was long--very
long--ere she, or any of the adults of her tribe, were so far converted to the Christian truth
as to be either desirous or fit to be baptized. But there was no bigotry or opposition in the
mind of Apannow; and she became a kind and sympathizing friend to Helen and to her children.

Rodolph was necessarily much engaged in agricultural occupations, and also in the business
of the government, as he was one of the council who were appointed to assist the President,
and to share the labors and responsibilities of his frequently very difficult office. The gradual
change in little Ludovico's health was, therefore, not so soon observed by his father as by
Helen and Edith; and when he returned to his much- loved home after the toils and cares of
the day, his wife forbore to arouse fresh anxiety in his breast, by telling him of her own
fears. On the contrary, she rejoiced to see the pleasure and animation that lighted up the
sweet child's expressive countenance, as he ran to meet his father, and the happiness of both
as they played under the wide- spreading trees that shaded their now luxuriant garden. At such
times, while listening to Ludovico's ringing laugh, and watching his light footsteps as he
chased his father and Edith from tree to tree, she flattered herself that all must be well
with the joyous child, and that her apprehensions were unfounded.  But, again, when the following
day found him pale and exhausted, and all the more so for the excitement and exercise of the
previous evening, these foreboding fears would return, and her heart would sink heavily at
the prospect of the coming woe.

The short summer of North America attained its height; and, as the heat increased, so did Ludovico's
young life wane away, and his strength become daily less. Rudolph now saw, as plainly as his
afflicted wife, that their only remaining son was soon to be taken from them; and he strove
to arm both himself and her with the only power that could support them under such an aggravated
calamity. He constantly led her to look only to Him who 'gave,' and who also 'takes away,'
and without whom 'not a sparrow falleth to the ground'; and to trust Him even in the depth
of sorrow: and he had the satisfaction of seeing her become more and more resigned, and more
and more strong in faith to meet the coming trial.

Slowly and gently it came; but it came at last: and though his parents and his sister had long
given up all hope of retaining their loved Ludovico on earth, and had endeavored to resign
him into the hands of his Heavenly Father, yet, when the blow came, they felt it sudden, and
found how little they were prepared for it.  One warm summer evening the sweet child was carried
by Rodolph to Edith's bower, that he might look once more at the flowers he had helped to plant
and to tend; and his soft eyes seemed to take a last farewell of every cherished object, and
to follow the setting sun with a fixed gaze, that said those eyes would never see it set again.
But there was no sadness--no regret--in the gentle countenance; and the infantine lips still
smiled, as they whispered the evening prayer that he had so often repeated with Edith. Young
as he was, Ludovico had learnt to love his Redeemer, and to feel that to 'depart, and be with
Christ, was far better than to abide on earth; and the 'valley of the shadow or death,' which
the Lord so mercifully made easy to his flesh, had no terrors for his young spirit.

Could his parents, then--could even his broken-hearted sister--bear to disturb his angelic
calmness by any display of their own grief?  No: they restrained it; and even tried to smile
again as they replied to his touching remarks, and spoke of the happy day when they should
all meet again in heaven, and dwell for ever in the presence of that gracious Savior, who was
new taking him, as they believed, to join his dear brother Henrich.

The sorrows of the Maitlands--thus renewed and aggravated--excited the warmest sympathy throughout
the colony; for they were universally respected and beloved, and their calm and pious resignation
drew forth the admiration of the whole community of Puritans, who deemed any strong expressions
of grief to be altogether unsuitable to Christians. But Rodolph and Helen did not the less
feel their chastisement, because they forbore to express their feelings to any other than to
God, and to their revered friend and minister, Brewster.  On Edith, this second blow fell even
more heavily than the first; for, since Henrich's loss, she had devoted herself to her younger
brother, and felt for him almost a mother's love: and now her pupil, her playfellow--the sunshine
of her life--was taken away from her! Truly, the Lord was preparing her in the furnace of affliction
for the future lot to which He had appointed her; and sorrow did net visit her in vain. Her
character was strengthened and matured, and her mind was taught to find resources in itself
that proved hereafter of inestimable value to her, and to those most nearly connected with her.

The thoughts and attention of her parents--and indeed of the whole colony--were at this time
diverted greatly from their own private cares and interests, by an event of much importance
to the settlement. This was the arrival of a vessel, called the Fortune, from the mother- country,
bringing out to the colony a new and more comprehensive charter, obtained for them by the Society
of Plymouth, and also twenty- five fresh settlers, who were chiefly friends and relatives of
those already established in New England. How welcome these familiar countenances, that recalled
days of happiness long passed but not forgotten, were to the hearts and memories of their brethren,
none but exiles can tell! The new comers were indeed joyfully received, and hospitably entertained
by the Pilgrim Fathers; who invited them to take up their quarters in their rude but comfortable
dwellings, and to share their scanty stores. Unfortunately, the new settlers were unable to
contribute any thing to these stores; for all their own provisions were already consumed on
the voyage.  This accession to their numbers, therefore, added greatly to the inconvenience
of the colony, and occasioned such a scarcity of food, that the Governor was obliged to put
the whole community upon a daily allowance; an arrangement to which they all submitted without
a murmur. And not only did the original settlers thus consent to endure privation for the sake
of their newly- arrived friends and relatives, but they also contributed more liberally than
their narrow means could well afford, to provision the Fortune for her voyage home. This was
the occasion of the first mercantile adventure of the Pilgrims, who took the opportunity of
the return of the ship to England, to send to the Society with which they were connected a
quantity of furs and timber to the value of five hundred pounds.  But success did not attend
their speculation; for the vessel fell into the hands of the French, and all their hopes of
profit were, for the present, blasted.

It is needless to dwell on all the continued and various hardships that these brave men, and
their families, had to endure for several ensuing winters. A few circumstances that more especially
exemplify their manners and mode of life, will be sufficient for the purposes of our narrative,
the course of which must necessarily be somewhat interrupted by these details.  Some knowledge
of the habits of the adventurers, and of the events that befell them at this early period of
their history, is however needful for the illustration of the story; and they shall be briefly
given, before we take up the thread of the narrative a few years subsequent to the period of
which we are now speaking.

