PICTORIAL HISTORY OF OUR WAR WITH SPAIN

A THRILLING ACCOUNT OF THE LAND AND NAVAL OPERATIONS OF AMERICAN SOLDIERS AND SAILORS IN OUR
WAR WITH SPAIN, AND THE HEROIC STRUGGLES OF CUBAN PATRIOTS AGAINST SPANISH TYRANNY.

INCLUDING A DESCRIPTION AND HISTORY OF CUBA, SPAIN, PHILIPPINE ISLANDS, OUR ARMY AND NAVY,
FIGHTING STRENGTH, COAST DEFENSES, AND OUR RELATIONS WITH OTHER NATIONS, ETC., ETC.

BY TRUMBULL WHITE,

THE WELL KNOWN AND POPULAR AUTHOR, HISTORIAN AND WAR CORRESPONDENT.

ELABORATELY ILLUSTRATED WITH PHOTOGRAPHS AND DRAWINGS OF BATTLES, ON SEA AND LAND, WAR SHIPS,
ETC., FROM LIFE.

FREEDOM PUBLISHING CO.

Dedicated To Our American Volunteers

PREFACE.

Information concerning the island of Cuba has been of an exceedingly unsatisfactory character
until the search-light of American inquiry was thrown upon it from the beginning of the war
for Cuban liberty early in 1895. Although our next-door neighbor to the south, with a perfect
winter climate and a host of interesting and picturesque attractions for travelers, tourists
had been comparatively few, measured by the numbers that might have been expected. All of the
reasons for this were those which naturally followed the characteristic Spanish rule of the
island. Publicity was not welcomed, inquiry was not welcomed, travelers were not welcomed.
The cities and the accommodations they offered were in many ways far behind those of like age
and size in the other countries of the globe. Railway construction and the making of highways
had lagged disgracefully, because the exorbitant taxes collected were looted by the officers
of the government as their own spoils. No other country so near to the highways of ocean commerce
and so accessible from the United States was so little known.

A few travelers had journeyed to Cuba and had written books descriptive of their experiences,
which were read with interest by those who had access to them. But these books were usually
simply descriptive of the people, the manner of life, the scenery, and the things of surface
interest. It is proverbial that Spanish rule conceals the resources of a country instead of
exploiting them. The person of inquiring mind had no way in Cuba to obtain prompt information
concerning the material facts of the island's wealth of resource, because the Spanish authorities
themselves knew nothing about it. Spanish statistics are notoriously unreliable and incomplete.
No census of Cuba worthy the name ever has been taken, and there are few schools and few sources
of accurate information. With all this handicap it was a foregone conclusion that the casual
traveler should confine himself to the things that were visible and that were near to the usual
paths of travelers. So until the beginning of the Cuban war for liberty no books could be obtained
which told the things which one really cares to know. Picturesque descriptions there were,
more than one, of considerable interest, but the information was scattered.

Demand always creates supply, even if material is scant. When the war began, the people of
the United States wanted to know something of the people who were striving for their freedom,
of their characteristics, their conditions and their personality. Moreover, it was an immediate
necessity to know the geography of Cuba, its history, its natural conditions, its material
resources, and a host of things that unite to make a comprehensive knowledge of any country.
There were men who knew Cuba from years of residence there in industrial and commercial enterprises.
They were drawn upon for their knowledge. Then the newspapers of the United States gave another
demonstration of their unvarying enterprise and covered the points of interest in the insurrection
most exhaustively. Their correspondents shared the camps of insurgent chiefs, witnessed the
daring machete charges of the Cubans, saw every detail of armed life in the field. Others kept
close watch of the movements of the Spanish forces in Havana and the fortified towns, as well
as in the field. One was shot in action. Another was macheted to death after his capture, by
a Spanish officer who waited only to be sure that the prisoner was an American before ordering
him to death. Others were incarcerated in Morro and Cabanas fortresses and in the other Spanish
prisons in Cuba because they insisted on telling the truth to America and the world. They were
the ones who told of the horrors of reconcentration under that infamous order of Captain General
Weyler. They have been the real historians of Cuba.

It is to all of these sources and others that the information contained in the present volume
is owed. The writer takes pleasure in acknowledging the courteous permission to use salient
facts contained in some volumes of merit published prior to this time. But more than all the
obligation is to the newspaper correspondents who worked with him in Cuba in the days when
the war was but an insurrection and afterward when the insurrection became our own war against
Spain for the liberty of Cuba. They are the ones who have gathered the most exhaustive information
on the whole subject of Cuban affairs. They have been able by virtue of their intimate knowledge
of Cuba and the Cubans to be of invaluable assistance to the commanders of army and navy alike,
not only in advice as to the forming of plans, but in executing them. One who has seen the
things knows that to exaggerate the horrors of Spanish cruelty and the oppression of Spanish
rule in Cuba is an impossibility. No newspaper could have printed the plain truth of a score
of shocking affairs, simply because the public prints are no place for the exploiting of such
tales of vicious crime against humanity as have been perpetrated. The most sensational tales
have never reached the limits of the truth.

It is hoped that the reader will find in this volume not only a comprehensive current history
of our war with Spain for Cuba's freedom, but also much of the other matter that will be of
interest and value in considering the future of the liberated island. Its history, its people,
its resources and other salient subjects are included, with certain matter on Spain and her
own affairs, with Puerto Rico and the Philippine islands, which chapters serve to make the
volume a work for general reference and reading on the whole subject of the war.

TABLE OF CONTENTS.

      I. A War for Liberty and Humanity
     II. How Columbus Found the "Pearl of the Antilles"
    III. Spain's Black Historical Record
     IV. Buccaneering in the Spanish Main
      V. Commercial Development of Cuba
     VI. Beauties of a Tropical Island
    VII. Wealth from Nature's Store in the Forest and Fields of Cuba
   VIII. The Cubans and How They Live
     IX. Havana, the Island Metropolis
      X. The Cities of Cuba
     XI. Mutterings of Insurrection
    XII. Outbreak of the Ten Years' War
   XIII. Massacre of the Virginius Officers and Crew
    XIV. Operations of the Ten Years' War
     XV. The Peace of Zanjon and Its Violated Pledges
    XVI. Preparations for Another Rebellion
   XVII. The Cuban Junta and Its Work
  XVIII. Key West and the Cubans
    XIX. Another Stroke for Freedom
     XX. Jose Marti and Other Cuban Heroes
    XXI. Desperate Battles with Machete and Rifle
   XXII. Filibusters from Florida
  XXIII. Weyler the Butcher
   XXIV. Cuba Under the Scourge
    XXV. Fitzhugh Lee to the Front
   XXVI. Americans in Spanish Dungeons
  XXVII. Maceo Dead by Treachery
 XXVIII. Weyler's Reconcentration Policy and Its Horrors
   XXIX. American Indignation Growing
    XXX. Outrages on Americans in Cuba
   XXXI. McKinley Succeeds Cleveland
  XXXII. The Case of Evangelina Cisneros
 XXXIII. Work of Clara Barton and the Red Cross
  XXXIV. The Catastrophe to the Maine
   XXXV. Patience at the Vanishing Point
  XXXVI. Events in the American Congress
 XXXVII. President McKinley Acts
XXXVIII. Strength of the Opposing Squadron and Armies
  XXXIX. Battleships and Troops Begin to Move
     XL. Diplomatic Relations Terminate
    XLI. First Guns and First Prizes of the War
   XLII. Declaration of War
  XLIII. Call for the National Guard, Our Citizen Soldiery
   XLIV. Blockade of Cuban Ports
    XLV. Spanish Dissensions at Home
   XLVI. The Philippines, Puerto Rico, and Other Colonies of Spain
  XLVII. Progress of Hostilities
 XLVIII. Sea Fight off Manila, Americans Victorious
   XLIX. Hawaii, and Our Annexation Policy
      L. Continued Success for American Soldiers and Sailors
     LI. The Invasion of Puerto Rico
    LII. The Surrender of Manila
   LIII. Victorious Close of the War
    LIV. Personal Reminiscences

INTRODUCTION.

When, on the 22d day of April, 1898, Michael Mallia, gun-captain of the United States cruiser
Nashville, sent a shell across the bows of the Spanish ship Buena Ventura, he gave the signal
shot that ushered in a war for liberty for the slaves of Spain.

The world has never seen a contest like it. Nations have fought for territory and for gold,
but they have not fought for the happiness of others. Nations have resisted the encroachments
of barbarism, but until the nineteenth century they have not fought to uproot barbarism and
cast it out of its established place. Nations have fought to preserve the integrity of their
own empire, but they have not fought a foreign foe to set others free. Men have gone on crusades
to fight for holy tombs and symbols, but armies have not been put in motion to overthrow vicious
political systems and regenerate iniquitous governments for other peoples.

For more than four centuries Spain has held the island of Cuba as her chattel, and there she
has revelled in corruption, and wantoned in luxury wrung from slaves with the cruel hand of
unchecked power. She has been the unjust and merciless court of last resort. From her malignant
verdict there has been no possible appeal, no power to which her victims could turn for help.

But the end has come at last. The woe, the grief, the humiliation, the agony, the despair that
Spain has heaped upon the helpless, and multiplied in the world until the world is sickened
with it, will be piled in one avalanche on her own head.

Liberty has grown slowly. Civilization has been on the defensive. Now liberty fights for liberty,
and civilization takes the aggressive in the holiest war the world has even known.

Never was there a war before in which so many stimulating deeds of bravery were done in such
a short time, and this in spite of the fact that the public has been restless for more action.
It is almost worth a war to have inscribed such a deed of cool, intelligent heroism as that
of Hobson and his men with the Merrimac, in the entrance to the harbor of Santiago de Cuba.
That is an event in world history, one never to be forgotten, and in the countries of Europe
quite as generously recognized as by our own people. There is a word to say for the Spanish
admiral. In his chivalry after that act of heroism, Cervera proved himself a worthy adversary,
who could realize and admire bravery in a foe, even when it had been directed against himself
with such signal success. Not every commander would be great enough in that circumstance to
send a flag of truce to the opposing admiral, in order to inform him that his brave men were
safe and that they were honored as brave men by their captors.

