Their choice of a home is sufficient to place their good judgment above question. There are
still existing in the village a few mementos of their presence in the form of weather-stained
houses, over which have passed, leaving them untouched, all the vicissitudes of Indian times,
the Revolutionary War and modern improvement. Time, however, has left its scars upon their
fronts. The street leading down toward the shore of the ocean is grass-grown and spacious,
and probably differs very little from what it was in the olden time. On the left side stands
the Pelletreau house, where Lord Erskine resided during the winter of 1778. On the floor in
one of the rooms are certain marks, said to have been made by the axe of the British quartermaster.
Others of the old buildings have recently been removed, but those that are left are sufficient
to recall the time when, plundered alike by friend and foe, and compelled to maintain its enemy,
Southampton yet patriotically contributed its quota of men to the war for independence. There
is nothing of the upstart about the place. It reposes in a quiet, dignified present resting
upon a long and honorable past, and there is in its attitude and air something that compels
one to revert to the latter. Its population partakes of the same character. Although some of
the first settlers removed to other places or returned to Lynn, most of the old families took
deep root in the soil, and are represented by descendants who live within sight of the primitive
dwellings their forefathers reared. Offshoots were, however, thrown off in many directions.
Some went down to Cape May, whither the whale-fishing attracted them; others were among the
pioneers of the West, and founded colonies at various places in New York State and in Pennsylvania;
others took their places among the Argonauts of '49 and sought the gold-fields of California.
But still the parent trees stood fast in Southampton.

The appearance of whales off the coast, though now a rare occurrence, was not so in the early
days of the town. Among the earliest of its records is a law providing for the cutting up and
division of any whales that might be cast up on the shore. At a later day boats were fitted
up either to put off in pursuit when a whale was signalled or to cruise along the coast in
the whaling season. In the former case, by a usage which extended to the adjoining township
of Easthampton, signals were hoisted at fixed stations along the shore, whereupon the boats
were dragged down the beach and launched through the surf, while the venturesome crew leaped
in, each man taking his own place. How dangerous such a pursuit was can be estimated by any
one who will walk to the high ridge of sand running along the beach and look eastward down
the long line of breakers that toss their foam-capped heads before a heavy gale. For many miles
nothing can be seen but the arching waves dashing themselves upon the sand, as if furious that
their course should be checked. The whale has almost entirely deserted its old haunt, but the
sea still furnishes many an exciting, and also many a sad, episode in the otherwise uneventful
lives of the townsmen. Not a winter passes without some ship or ocean steamer being thrown
upon Hampton shore, and often, in spite of the gallantry and exertions of the lifeboatmen,
whose stations stand at intervals of five miles, the crews never reach the land until flung
up lifeless by the waves.

Maintaining still an eastward course, we pass Water Mill, lying upon one of the inlets of Mecoc
Bay, and hurrying through Bridgehampton arrive at Sag Harbor, the chief port of the peninsula.
It is a quiet, interesting town, beautifully situated on a branch of Gardiner's Bay. Across
the neck that projects over toward Shelter Island on the north, and beyond the site chosen
by Chief-Justice Daly for his residence, lies Peconic Bay. Toward the east stretches the bay,
past the lower end of Shelter Island, past Cedar Point, and then away off to where Gardiner's
Island is stretching its long arms to the north and south, as if to guard the great haven inside
from the ocean storms. A century and a half ago nothing stood upon the spot where the town
now stands but a few fishermen's huts. In a short time the settlers were engaged in whale-fishing
off the coast, and thereby really laid the foundations of Sag Harbor's future prosperity and
wealth. In 1760 three sloops were fitted out to prosecute the fishing in the northern seas,
and after the war of independence Dr. N. Gardiner and his brother despatched on the same errand
the first ship that ever sailed from Sag Harbor. The venture failed, but others succeeded,
and in 1847 sixty-three ships were engaged in the business. After that date the decline was
fast, and now not a single ship of the whole fleet is left. Captain Babcock, the lighthouse-keeper
of Montauk, sailed six or seven years ago the brig Myra, the last whaler that left Sag Harbor.
His success was not so great that the owners, the Messrs. French, cared to repeat the experiment;
so that within twenty years Sag Harbor has fallen from its position as the third or fourth
whaling-port in the country to that in which we find it to-day. The gold fever of '49, the
discovery of petroleum and the increased expense attending the whale-fishing, all contributed
to its decline. It is also claimed for Sag Harbor that Captain Cooper of the Manhattan, sailing
from that port, was the first to take a ship into Yeddo.

In and around the town are many evidences of the generally well-to-do condition of its inhabitants,
amongst whom are several whose rise to greater wealth was checked by the fall of the whale-fishing.
In their homes and those of retired merchant captains are many mementos of long voyages to
China, Japan, the Indies, and, in short, to every part of the world. It is singular how interesting,
as compared with the choicest things to be found in the shops, these porcelains, lacquers,
enamels, ivories, fans, silks, weapons and cabinets are. They are the trophies of the Ancient
Mariner, who takes some pride in turning over the contents of his shelves, and derive a personal
interest from having been with him through the storms he weathered before he brought them safe
to port.

Every part of the town is interesting, and certainly not the least so is the old cemetery.
It contains an extensive collection of rude headstones and quaint epitaphs. Here, on a sailor's
grave, are engraved the lines--

          Rude Boreas' winds and Neptune's waves
            Have tossed me to and fro:
          By God's decree, you plainly see,
            I'm harbored here below.

In Sag Harbor there lived a certain Captain David Hand, who died in 1840 at the age of eighty-one.
Here he and his five wives are sleeping, all in a row. The first died in 1791; the second,
in 1794; the third, in 1798; the fourth, in 1810; the fifth, in 1835. The gallant captain himself
went down while cruising in quest of a sixth. It is upon the grave of the third that the following
appears:

          Behold, ye living mortals passing by,
          How thick the partners of one husband lie.
          Vast and unsearchable the ways of God:
          Just, but severe, we feel His chastening rod.

The meaning is a little obscure, and it is only the subsequent matrimonial ventures of the
captain that assure us he did not mean that the three who had gone were to him as a chastening rod.

Let us now take our station where we can look down upon the town and over the surrounding scene
of mingled island, sea and shore, and try to recall some of the thrilling events that give
Sag Harbor its historical interest. Two hundred and fifty years ago these bays, now alive with
coasting vessels, pleasure craft and an occasional steamer, showed nothing but the canoes of
the Manhansetts and Montauketts. In 1637 we might have seen the large canoe of Wyandanch, the
sachem of the Montauks, surrounded by those of his tribe, stealing across toward Shelter Island
to complete the extermination of the Pequots. In 1699 the ship in which Kidd won his plunder
in the southern seas was lying under the island's lee while the famous pirate was burying a
part of his booty on its shore. It is said that the proprietor of the island has still in his
possession a piece of gold cloth given to his ancestor by Captain Kidd. Soon afterward Gardiner's
Island was visited and plundered by Paul Williams and some of his buccaneering associates.
In 1728 these seas swarmed with the pirates of Spain, and one night in September of that year
the crew of a schooner landed upon Gardiner's Island, and for three days it was given up to
plunder. The next we see is a British fleet in 1775 sweeping round the arm of the island and
coming to anchor in the bay, whence, like the pirates, they sent out parties to plunder Mr.
Gardiner's house and farm. Sag Harbor was occupied by British troops, and one evening in 1777
across Peconic Bay from Southold the boat that carried Lieutenant-Colonel Meigs and his patriot
companions was sailing. Landing a few miles to the west of the town, they fell upon the British
garrison like a midnight thunderbolt. The commander was seized in bed, the shipping and provisions
were fired, and Meigs and his men had finished their work and retired before the British soldiers
were fully awake. Again, in 1780-81, the British fleet anchored in the bay, and yet again in
1813. In the latter year Commodore Hardy sent a launch and two barges with a hundred men to
plunder Sag Harbor, but the project utterly failed. The town was roused, the guns of the fort
opened upon the intruders, and then the villagers returned to their slumbers. When peace was
restored the bay was ploughed by West Indiamen and whalers, and then, as we have seen, they
also vanished. Apart, then, from the beauty of its situation, Sag Harbor has associations and
a history that form appreciable items in the list of its attractions; and if its future should
be less glowing than its past, it will not be for lack of a healthy and mild climate nor of
exceptional advantages of location.

Before leaving the town in quest of Easthampton Village we find ourselves in the township of
that name. All these woods and fair fields stretching from the Southampton limit eastward to
Montauk, and comprising upward of thirty thousand acres, were in 1648 bought for "20 coats,
24 hoes, 24 hatchets, 24 knives, 24 looking-glasses and 100 muxes." Most of the settlers in
the village we are now approaching came from Kent, and memories of their English home led them
to give it the name of Maidstone, which was afterward changed to Easthampton. It lies in the
midst of a beautiful section of country, full of pretty little pictures of rustic life. The
main street is, like that of Southampton, a broad grass-grown avenue lined with stately trees,
and as we go down in the direction of the shore we pass a spot interesting to English-speaking
people all over the world--the birthplace of John Howard Payne, the author of "Home, Sweet
Home." It is with a feeling approaching reverence that we look at the old open fireplace, the
rafters and walls; and as we emerge and glance up and down the spacious street, and drink in
the placid beauty of the scene, the fountain of the poet's inspiration is revealed. Once seen,
it is a place for every man to remember all through life, even if "he owed it not his birth."
And here the thought recurs that there must be an unusually strong tie between the villagers
in all the Hamptons and their homes. The names of many of the old settlers are still met with
throughout the entire section from Southampton eastward, so that while Payne was giving expression
to a sentiment that is universal in language that the world at large has adopted, his words
have also a particular significance in telling us of the atmosphere of sentiment peculiar in
its warmth and manifestation to the district in which he was reared.

Our path now lies eastward through the straggling little village of Amagansett, and through
the woods beyond which lie Neapeague and Montauk, the "Hilly Land." The quiet repose of village-life
is now left behind, and through rapidly-changing scenes we set our faces toward the grandest
and most wonderful section of Long Island. For about two miles after leaving Amagansett our
route lies through thick woods of young timber, and then we suddenly emerge at a point where
the road turns round a spur of the high land we have just passed. On the south is the ocean,
in sight of which the road thereafter runs the greater part of the way to the point, and in
front, stretching for six or seven miles until it joins the hills of Montauk, is the marshy
beach of Neapeague, the "Water Land." As we descend, the sea is hidden by the irregular dunes
that lie along the shore, and the dreary expanse extends far before us and off toward the north.
Every step leads us to realize more fully the dismal character of the sterile flat. The wagon-wheels
alternately grind through the sand and bump into deep puddles in the marsh. There can be no
doubt that once this whole tract was overflowed by the sea, and still in heavy storms the waves
force their way between the sandhills and lay parts of the beach under water. Meanwhile, however,
attention is likely to be diverted from the consideration of the inroads of the sea to the
incessant attacks of the insatiate and bloodthirsty mosquitoes. We are here in their very home,
and, galled by their furious stinging onslaughts, can recall nothing but Ayres's exclamation:

          Cheerless Neapeague! how bounds the heart to gain
          The hills that spring beyond thy weary plain!

The busy, bloodthirsty wretches spring in clouds from every swamp. They fill the air, obscure
the blue lining of the wagon with their own tawny gray, and would, I verily believe, turn a
white horse brown. But the end comes at length, and as we climb the hill bounding the beach
on the east the last of the little tormentors disappears. To our left are the Nommonock Hills,
and those of Hither Wood rise in front of us. At the point now reached it is well to turn round
and view the land we have passed. We can look across from shore to shore, from the ocean breakers
on the south to the little harbor of Neapeague on the north, and beyond it to where Gardiner's
Island lies out in the bay. The conviction grows upon us that where we now stand was once an
island, and that the rugged base of Nommonock was once washed by the sea.

