But in fact, so far is it from being true that the prevalence of real Religion would produce
a stagnation in life; that a man, whatever might be his employment or pursuit, would be furnished
with a new motive to prosecute it with alacrity, a motive far more constant and vigorous than
any human prospects can supply: at the same time, his solicitude being not so much to succeed
in whatever he might be engaged in, as to act from a pure principle and leave the event to
God; he would not be liable to the same disappointments, as men who are active and laborious
from a desire of worldly gain or of human estimation. Thus he would possess the true secret
of a life at the same time useful and happy. Following peace also with all men, and looking
upon them as members of the same family, entitled not only to the debts of justice, but to
the less definite and more liberal claims of fraternal kindness; he would naturally be respected
and beloved by others, and be in himself free from the annoyance of those bad passions, by
which they who are actuated by worldly principles are so commonly corroded. If any country
were indeed filled with men, each thus diligently discharging the duties of his own station
without breaking in upon the rights of others, but on the contrary endeavouring, so far as
he might be able, to forward their views and promote their happiness; all would be active and
harmonious in the goodly frame of human society. There would be no jarrings, no discord. The
whole machine of civil life would work without obstruction or disorder, and the course of its
movements would be like the harmony of the spheres.

Such would be the happy state of a truly Christian nation within itself. Nor would its condition
with regard to foreign countries form a contrast to this its internal comfort. Such a community,
on the contrary, peaceful at home, would be respected and beloved abroad. General integrity
in all its dealings would inspire universal confidence: differences between nations commonly
arise from mutual injuries, and still more from mutual jealousy and distrust. Of the former
there would be no longer any ground for complaint; the latter would find nothing to attach
upon. But if, in spite of all its justice and forbearance, the violence of some neighbouring
state should force it to resist an unprovoked attack, (for hostilities strictly defensive are
those only in which it would be engaged) its domestic union would double its national force;
while the consciousness of a good cause, and of the general favour of Heaven, would invigorate
its arm, and inspirit its efforts.

It is indeed the position of an author, to whom we have had frequent occasion to refer, and
whose love of paradox has not seldom led him into error, that true Christianity is an enemy
to patriotism. If by patriotism be meant that mischievous and domineering quality, which renders
men ardent to promote, not the happiness, but the aggrandisement of their own country, by the
oppression and conquest of every other; to such patriotism, so generally applauded in the Heathen
world, that Religion must be indeed an enemy, whose foundation is justice, and whose compendious
character is "peace,--and good will towards men." But if by patriotism be understood that quality
which, without shutting up our philanthropy within the narrow bounds of a single kingdom, yet
attaches us in particular to the country to which we belong; of this true patriotism, Christianity
is the most copious source, and the surest preservative. The contrary opinion can indeed only
have arisen from not considering the fulness and universality of our Saviour's precepts. Not
like the puny productions of human workmanship, which at the best can commonly serve but the
particular purpose that they are specially designed to answer; the moral, as well as the physical,
principles of the great Author of all things are capable of being applied at once to ten thousand
different uses; thus, amidst infinite complication, preserving a grand simplicity, and therein
bearing the unambiguous stamp of their Divine Original. Thus, to specify one out of the numberless
instances which might be adduced; the principle of gravitation, while it is subservient to
all the mechanical purposes of common life, keeps at the same time the stars in their courses,
and sustains the harmony of worlds.

Thus also in the case before us: society consists of a number of different circles of various
magnitudes and uses; and that circumstance, wherein the principle of patriotism chiefly consists,
whereby the duty of patriotism is best practised, and the happiest effects to the general weal
produced, is, that it should be the desire and aim of every individual to fill well his own
proper circle, as a part and member of the whole, with a view to the production of general
happiness. This our Saviour enjoined when he prescribed the duty of universal love, which is
but another term for the most exalted patriotism. Benevolence, indeed, when not originating
from Religion, dispenses but from a scanty and precarious fund; and therefore, if it be liberal
in the case of some objects, it is generally found to be contracted towards others. Men who,
acting from worldly principles, make the greatest stir about general philanthropy or zealous
patriotism, are often very deficient in their conduct in domestic life; and very neglectful
of the opportunities, fully within their reach, of promoting the comfort of those with whom
they are immediately connected. But true Christian benevolence is always occupied in producing
happiness to the utmost of its power, and according to the extent of its sphere, be it larger
or more limited; it contracts itself to the measure of the smallest; it can expand itself to
the amplitude of the largest. It resembles majestic rivers, which are poured from an unfailing
and abundant source. Silent and peaceful in their outset, they begin with dispensing beauty
and comfort to every cottage by which they pass. In their further progress they fertilize provinces
and enrich kingdoms. At length they pour themselves into the ocean; where, changing their names
but not their nature, they visit distant nations and other hemispheres, and spread throughout
the world the expansive tide of their beneficence.

It must be confessed, that many of the good effects, of which Religion is productive to political
societies, would be produced even by a false Religion, which should prescribe good morals,
and should be able to enforce its precepts by sufficient sanctions. Of this nature are those
effects, which depend on our calling in the aid of a Being who sees the heart, in order to
assist the weakness, and in various ways to supply the inherent defects of all human jurisprudence.
But the superior excellence of Christianity in this respect must be acknowledged, both in the
superiority of her moral code, and in the powerful motives and efficacious means which she
furnishes for enabling us to practise it; and in the tendency of her doctrines to provide for
the observance of her precepts, by producing tempers of mind which correspond with them.

But, more than all this; it has not perhaps been enough remarked, that true Christianity, from
her essential nature, appears peculiarly and powerfully adapted to promote the preservation
and healthfulness of political communities. What is in truth their grand malady? The answer
is short; Selfishness. This is that young disease received at the moment of their birth, "which
grows with their growth, and strengthens with their strength;" and through which they at length
expire, if not cut off prematurely by some external shock or intestine convulsion.

The disease of selfishness, indeed, assumes different forms in the different classes of society.
In the great and the wealthy, it displays itself in luxury, in pomp and parade; and in all
the frivolities of a sickly and depraved imagination, which seeks in vain its own gratification,
and is dead to the generous and energetic pursuits of an enlarged heart. In the lower orders,
when not motionless under the weight of a superincumbent despotism, it manifests itself in
pride, and its natural offspring, insubordination in all its modes. But though the external
effects may vary, the internal principle is the same; a disposition in each individual to make
self the grand center and end of his desires and enjoyments; to over-rate his own merits and
importance, and of course to magnify his claims on others, and in return to under-rate their's
on him; a disposition to undervalue the advantages, and over-state the disadvantages, of his
condition in life. Thence spring rapacity and venality, and sensuality. Thence imperious nobles,
and factious leaders; and an unruly commonalty, bearing with difficulty the inconveniences
of a lower station, and imputing to the nature or administration of their government the evils
which necessarily flow from the very constitution of our species, or which perhaps are chiefly
the result of their own vices and follies. The opposite to selfishness is public spirit; which
may be termed, not unjustly, the grand principle of political vitality, the very life's breath
of states, which tends to keep them active and vigorous, and to carry them to greatness and glory.

The tendency of public spirit, and the opposite tendency of selfishness, have not escaped the
observation of the founders of states, or of the writers on government; and various expedients
have been resorted to and extolled, for cherishing the one, and for repressing the other. Sometimes
a principle of internal agitation and dissension, resulting from the very frame of the government,
has been productive of the effect. Sparta flourished for more than seven hundred years under
the civil institutions of Lycurgus; which guarded against the selfish principle, by prohibiting
commerce, and imposing universal poverty and hardship. The Roman commonwealth, in which public
spirit was cherished, and selfishness checked, by the principle of the love of glory, was also
of long continuance. This passion naturally operates to produce an unbounded spirit of conquest,
which, like the ambition of the greatest of its own heroes, was never satiated while any other
kingdom was left it to subdue. The principle of political vitality, when kept alive only by
means like these, merits the description once given of eloquence: "Sicut flamma, materia alitur,
& motibus excitatur, & urendo clarescit." But like eloquence, when no longer called into action
by external causes, or fomented by civil broils, it gradually languishes. Wealth and luxury
produce stagnation, and stagnation terminates in death.

To provide, however, for the continuance of a state, by the admission of internal dissensions,
or even by the chilling influence of poverty, seems to be in some sort sacrificing the end
to the means. Happiness is the end for which men unite in civil society; but in societies thus
constituted, little happiness, comparatively speaking, is to be found. The expedient, again,
of preserving a state by the spirit of conquest, though even this has not wanted its admirers[120],
is not to be tolerated for a moment, when considered on principles of universal justice. Such
a state lives, and grows, and thrives, by the misery of others, and becomes professedly the
general enemy of its neighbours, and the scourge of the human race. All these devices are in
truth but too much like the fabrications of man, when compared with the works of the Supreme
Being; clumsy, yet weak in the execution of their purpose, and full of contradictory principles
and jarring movements.

I might here enlarge with pleasure on the unrivalled excellence, in this very view, of the
constitution under which we live in this happy country; and point out how, more perhaps than
any which ever existed upon earth, it is so framed, as to provide at the same time for keeping
up a due degree of public spirit, and yet for preserving unimpaired the quietness, and comfort,
and charities of private life; how it even extracts from selfishness itself many of the advantages
which, under less happily constructed forms of government, public spirit only can supply. But
such a political discussion, however grateful to a British mind, would here be out of place.
It is rather our business to remark, how much Christianity in every way sets herself in direct
hostility to selfishness, the mortal distemper of political communities; and consequently,
how their welfare must be inseparable from her prevalence. It might indeed, be almost stated
as the main object and chief concern of Christianity, to root out our natural selfishness,
and to rectify the false standard which it imposes on us; with views, however, far higher than
any which concern merely our temporal and social well-being; to bring us to a just estimate
of ourselves, and of all around us, and to a due impression of the various claims and obligations
resulting from the different relations in which we stand. Benevolence, enlarged, vigorous,
operative benevolence, is her master principle. Moderation in temporal pursuits and enjoyments,
comparative indifference to the issue of worldly projects, diligence in the discharge of personal
and civil duties, resignation to the will of God, and patience under all the dispensations
of his Providence, are among her daily lessons. Humility is one of the essential qualities,
which her precepts most directly and strongly enjoin, and which all her various doctrines tend
to call forth and cultivate; and humility, as has been before suggested, lays the deepest and
surest grounds for benevolence. In whatever class or order of society Christianity prevails,
she sets herself to rectify the particular faults, or, if we would speak more distinctly, to
counteract the particular mode of selfishness, to which that class is liable. Affluence she
teaches to be liberal and beneficent; authority, to bear its faculties with meekness, and to
consider the various cares and obligations belonging to its elevated station, as being conditions
on which that station is conferred.

But the Christianity which can produce effects like these, must be real, not nominal, deep,
not superficial. Such then is the Religion we should cultivate, if we would realize these pleasing
speculations, and arrest the progress of political decay. But in the present circumstances
of this country, it is a farther reason for endeavouring to cultivate this vital Christianity,
still considering its effects merely in a political view, that, according to all human appearance,
we must either have this or none: unless the prevalence of this be in some degree restored,
we are likely, not only to lose all the advantages which we might have derived from true Christianity,
but to incur all the manifold evils which would result from the absence of all religion.

In the first place, let it be remarked, that a weakly principle of Religion, and even such
an one, in a political view, is productive of many advantages; though its existence may be
prolonged if all external circumstances favour its continuance, can hardly be kept alive, when
the state of things is so unfavourable to vital Religion, as it must be confessed to be in
our condition of society. Nor is it merely the ordinary effects of a state of wealth and prosperity
to which we here allude. Much also may justly be apprehended, from that change which has taken
place in our general habits of thinking and feeling, concerning the systems and opinions of
former times. At a less advanced period of society, indeed, the Religion of the state will
be generally accepted, though it be not felt in its vital power. It was the Religion of our
forefathers: with the bulk it is on that account entitled to reverence, and its authority is
admitted without question. The establishment in which it subsists pleads the same prescription,
and obtains the same respect. But in our days, things are very differently circumstanced. Not
merely the blind prejudice in favour of former times, but even the proper respect for them,
and the reasonable presumption in their favour, has abated. Still less will the idea be endured,
of any system being kept up, when the imposture is seen through by the higher orders, for the
sake of retaining the common people in subjection. A system, if not supported by a real persuasion
of its truth, will fall to the ground. Thus it not unfrequently happens, that in a more advanced
state of society, a religious establishment must be indebted for its support to that very Religion,
which in earlier times it fostered and protected; as the weakness of some aged mother is sustained,
and her existence lengthened, by the tender assiduities of the child whom she had reared in
the helplessness of infancy. So in the present instance, unless there be reinfused into the
mass of our society, something of that principle, which animated our ecclesiastical system
in its earlier days, it is vain for us to hope that the establishment will very long continue:
for the anomaly will not much longer be borne, of an establishment, the actual principles of
the bulk of whose members, and even teachers, are so extremely different from those which it
professes. But in proportion as vital Christianity can be revived, in that same proportion
the church establishment is strengthened; for the revival of vital Christianity is the very
reinfusion of which we have been speaking. This is the very Christianity on which our establishment
is founded; and that which her Articles, and Homilies, and Liturgy, teach throughout.

But if, when the reign of prejudice, and even of honest prepossession, and of grateful veneration,
is no more (for by these almost any system may generally be supported, before a state, having
passed the period of its maturity, is verging to its decline); if there are any who think that
a dry, unanimated Religion, like that which is now professed by nominal Christians, can hold
its place; much more that it can be revived among the general mass of mankind, it may be affirmed,
that, arguing merely on human principles, they know little of human nature. The kind of Religion
which we have recommended, whatever opinion may be entertained concerning its truth, and to
say nothing of the agency of Divine Grace, must at least be conceded to be the only one which
is at all suited to make impression upon the lower orders, by strongly interesting the passions
of the human mind. If it be thought that a system of ethics may regulate the conduct of the
higher classes; such an one is altogether unsuitable to the lower, who must be worked upon
by their affections, or they will not be worked upon at all. The antients were wiser than ourselves,
and never thought of governing the community in general by their lessons of philosophy. These
lessons were confined to the schools of the learned; while for the million, a system of Religion,
such as it was, was kept up, as alone adapted to their grosser natures. If this reasoning fail
to convince, we may safely appeal to experience. Let the Socinian and the moral teacher of
Christianity come forth, and tell us what effects they have produced on the lower orders. They
themselves will hardly deny the inefficacy of their instructions. But, blessed be God, the
Religion which we recommend, has proved its correspondence with the character originally given
of Christianity, that it was calculated for the poor; by changing the whole condition of the
mass of society in many of the most populous districts in this and other countries; and by
bringing them from being scenes of almost unexampled wickedness and barbarism, to be eminent
for sobriety, decency, industry, and, in short, for whatever can render men useful members
of civil society.

If indeed, through the blessing of Providence, a principle of true Religion should in any considerable
degree gain ground, there is no estimating the effects on public morals, and the consequent
influence on our political welfare. These effects are not merely negative: though it would
be much, merely to check the farther progress of a gangrene, which is eating out the very vital
principles of our social and political existence. The general standard of morality formerly
described, would be raised, it would at least be sustained and kept for a while from farther
depression. The esteem which religious characters would personally attract, would extend to
the system which they should hold, and to the establishment of which they should be members.
These are all merely natural consequences. But to those who believe in a superintending Providence,
it may be added, that the blessing of God might be drawn down upon our country, and the stroke
of his anger be for a while suspended.

Let us be spared the painful task of tracing, on the contrary, the fatal consequences of the
extinction of Religion among us. They are indeed such as no man, who is ever so little interested
for the welfare of his country, can contemplate without the deepest concern. The very loss
of our church establishment, though, as in all human institutions, some defects may be found
in it, would in itself be attended with the most fatal consequences. No prudent man dares hastily
pronounce how far its destruction might not greatly endanger our civil institutions. It would
not be difficult to prove, that the want of it would also be in the highest degree injurious
to the cause of Christianity; and still more, that it would take away what appears from experience
to be one of the most probable means of its revival. To what a degree might even the avowed
principles of men, not altogether without Religion, decline, when our inestimable Liturgy should
no longer remain in use! a Liturgy justly inestimable, which continually sets before us a faithful
model of the Christian's belief, and practice, and language; restraining us, as far as restraint
is possible, from excessive deviations; furnishing us with abundant instruction when we would
return into the right path; affording an advantageous ground of no little value, to such instructors
as still adhere to the good old principles of the Church of England; in short, daily shaming
us, by preserving a living representation of the opinions and habits of better times, as some
historical record, which reproaches a degenerate posterity, by exhibiting the worthier deeds
of their progenitors. In such a state of things, to what a depth public morals might sink,
may be anticipated by those who consider what would then be the condition of society; who reflect
how bad principles and vicious conduct mutually aid each other's operation, and how, in particular,
the former make sure the ground which the latter may have gained; who remember, that in the
lower orders, the system of honour, and the responsibility of character, are wanting, which
in the superior classes, in some poor degree, supply the place of higher principles. It is
well for the happiness of mankind, that such a community could not long subsist. The cement
of society being no more, the slate would soon be dissolved into individuality.

Let it not be vainly imagined, that our state of civilization must prevent the moral degeneracy
here threatened. A neighbouring nation has lately furnished a lamentable proof, that superior
polish and refinement may well consist with a very large measure of depravity. But to appeal
to a still more decisive instance: it may be seen in the history of the latter years of the
most celebrated of the Pagan nations, that the highest degrees of civilization and refinement
are by no means inseparable from the most shocking depravity of morals. The fact is certain,
and the obvious inference with regard to ourselves cannot be denied. The cause of this strange
phænomenon, (such it really appears to our view) for which the natural corruption of man might
hardly seem to account sufficiently, has been explained by an inspired writer. Speaking of
the most polished nations of antiquity, he observes; "Because when they knew God, they glorified
him not as God, and were not solicitous[121] to retain him in their knowledge, he gave them
over to a reprobate mind." Let us then beware, and take warning from their example: let us
not suffer our self-love to beguile us: let us not vainly persuade ourselves, that although
prosperity and wealth may have caused us to relax a little too much, in those more serious
duties which regard our Maker, yet that we shall stop where we are; or, at least, that we can
never sink into the same state of moral depravation. Doubtless we should sink as low, if God
were to give us up also to our own imaginations. And what ground have we to think he will not?
If we would reason justly, we should not compare ourselves with the state of the Heathen world
when at its worst; but with its state at that period, when, for its forgetfulness of God, and
its ingratitude towards him, it was suffered to fall, till at length it reached that worst,
its ultimate point of depression. The Heathens had only reason and natural conscience to direct
them: we enjoy, superadded to these, the clear light of Gospel revelation, and a distinct declaration
of God's dealings with them, to be a lesson for our instruction. How then can we but believe
that if we, enjoying advantages so much superior to their's, are alike forgetful of our kind
Benefactor, we also shall be left to ourselves? and if so left, what reason can be assigned
why we should not fall into the same enormities?

What then is to be done? The inquiry is of the first importance, and the general answer to
it is not difficult.--The causes and nature of the decay of Religion and morals among us sufficiently
indicate the course, which, on principles of sound policy, it is in the highest degree expedient
for us to pursue. The distemper of which, as a community, we are sick, should be considered
rather as a moral than a political malady. How much has this been forgotten by the disputants
of modern times! and accordingly, how transient may be expected to be the good effects of the
best of their publications! We should endeavour to tread back our steps. Every effort should
be used to raise the depressed tone of public morals. This is a duty particularly incumbent
on all who are in the higher walks of life; and it is impossible not to acknowledge the obligations,
which in this respect we owe as a nation, to those exalted characters, whom God in his undeserved
mercy to us, still suffers to continue on the throne, and who set to their subjects a pattern
of decency and moderation rarely seen in their elevated station.

But every person of rank, and fortune, and abilities, should endeavour in like manner to exhibit
a similar example, and recommend it to the imitation of the circle in which he moves. It has
been the opinion of some well-meaning people, that by giving, as far as they possibly could
with innocence, into the customs and practices of irreligious men, they might soften the prejudices
too frequently taken up against Religion, of its being an austere gloomy service; and thus
secure a previous favourable impression against any time, when they might have an opportunity
of explaining or enforcing their sentiments. This is always a questionable, and, it is to be
feared, a dangerous policy. Many mischievous consequences necessarily resulting from it might
easily be enumerated. But it is a policy particularly unsuitable to our inconsiderate and dissipated
times, and to the lengths at which we are arrived. In these circumstances, the most likely
means of producing the revulsion which is required, must be boldly to proclaim the distinction
between the adherents of "God and Baal." The expediency of this conduct in our present situation
is confirmed by another consideration, to which we have before had occasion to refer. It is
this--that when men are aware that something of difficulty is to be effected, their spirits
rise to the level of the encounter; they make up their minds to bear hardships and brave dangers,
and to persevere in spite of fatigue and opposition: whereas in a matter which is regarded
as of easy and ordinary operation, they are apt to slumber over their work, and to fail in
what a small effort might have been sufficient to accomplish, for want of having called up
the requisite degree of energy and spirit. Conformably to the principle which is hereby suggested,
in the circumstances in which we are placed, the line of demarcation between the friends and
the enemies of Religion should now be made clear; the separation should be broad and obvious.
Let him then, who wishes well to his country, no longer hesitate what course of conduct to
pursue. The question now is not, in what liberties he might warrantably indulge himself in
another situation? but what are the restraints on himself which the exigencies of the present
times render it adviseable for him to impose? Circumstanced as we now are, it is more than
ever obvious, that the best man is the truest patriot.

Nor is it only by their personal conduct, (though this mode will always be the most efficacious)
that men of authority and influence may promote the cause of good morals. Let them in their
several stations encourage virtue and discountenance vice in others. Let them enforce the laws
by which the wisdom of our forefathers has guarded against the grosser infractions of morals;
and congratulate themselves, that in a leading situation on the bench of justice there is placed
a man who, to his honour be it spoken, is well disposed to assist their efforts[122]. Let them
favour and take part in any plans which may be formed for the advancement of morality. Above
all things, let them endeavour to instruct and improve the rising generation; that, if it be
possible, an antidote may be provided for the malignity of that venom, which is storing up
in a neighbouring country. This has long been to my mind the most formidable feature of the
present state of things in France; where, it is to be feared, a brood of moral vipers, as it
were, is now hatching, which, when they shall have attained to their mischievous maturity,
will go forth to poison the world. But fruitless will be all attempts to sustain, much more
to revive, the fainting cause of morals, unless you can in some degree restore the prevalence
of Evangelical Christianity. It is in morals as in physics; unless the source of practical
principles be elevated, it will be in vain to attempt to make them flow on a high level in
their future course. You may force them for a while into some constrained position, but they
will soon drop to their natural point of depression. By all, therefore, who are studious of
their country's welfare, more particularly by all who desire to support our ecclesiastical
establishment, every effort should be used to revive the Christianity of our better days. The
attempt should especially be made in the case of the pastors of the Church, whose situation
must render the principles which they hold a matter of supereminent importance. Wherever these
teachers have steadily and zealously inculcated the true doctrines of the Church of England,
the happiest effects have commonly rewarded their labours. And it is worth observing, in the
view which we are now taking, that these men, as might naturally be expected, are, perhaps
without exception, friendly to our ecclesiastical and civil establishments[123]; and consequently,
that their instructions and influence tend directly, as well as indirectly, to the maintenance
of the cause of order and good government. Nor should it be forgotten by any who, judging with
the abstract coldness of mere politicians, might doubt whether, by adopting the measures here
recommended, a religious warmth would not be called into action, which might break out into
mischievous irregularities; that experience proves that an establishment affords, from its
very nature, the happy means of exciting a considerable degree of fervour and animation, and
at the same time of restraining them within due bounds. The duty of encouraging vital Religion
in the Church particularly devolves on all who have the disposal of ecclesiastical preferment,
and more especially on the dignitaries of the sacred order. Some of these have already sounded
the alarm; justly censuring the practice of suffering Christianity to degenerate into a mere
system of ethics, and recommending more attention to the peculiar doctrines of our Religion.
In our schools, in our universities, let the study be encouraged of the writings of those venerable
divines, who flourished in the purer times of Christianity. Let even a considerable proficiency
in their writings be required of candidates for ordination. Let our churches no longer witness
that unseemly discordance, which has too much prevailed, between the prayers which precede,
and the sermon which follows.

But it may be enough to have briefly hinted at the course of conduct, which, in the present
circumstances of this country, motives merely political should prompt us to pursue. To all
who have at heart the national welfare, the above suggestions are solemnly submitted. They
have not been urged altogether without misgivings, lest it should appear, as though the concern
of Eternity were melted down into a mere matter of temporal advantage, or political expediency.
But since it has graciously pleased the Supreme Being so to arrange the constitution of things,
as to render the prevalence of true Religion and of pure morality conducive to the well-being
of states, and the preservation of civil order; and since these subordinate inducements are
not unfrequently held forth, even by the sacred writers; it seemed not improper, and scarcely
liable to misconstruction, to suggest inferior motives to readers, who might be less disposed
to listen to considerations of a higher order.

Would to God that the course of conduct here suggested might be fairly pursued! Would to God
that the happy consequences, which would result from the principles we have recommended, could
be realized; and above all, that the influence of true Religion could be extensively diffused!
It is the best wish which can be formed for his country, by one who is deeply anxious for its
welfare:--

    Lucem redde tuam, dux bone, patriæ!
    Instar veris enim vultus ubi tuus
    Affulsit populo, gratior it dies,
        Et soles melius nitent.

CHAPTER VII.

Practical Hints to various Descriptions of Persons.

Thus have we endeavoured to trace the chief defects of the religious system of the bulk of
professed Christians in this country. We have pointed out their low idea of the importance
of Christianity in general; their inadequate conceptions of all its leading doctrines, and
the effect hereby naturally produced in relaxing the strictness of its practical system; more
than all, we have remarked their grand fundamental misconception of its genius and essential
nature. Let not therefore the difference between them and true believers be considered as a
minute difference; as a question of forms or opinions. The question is of the very substance
of Religion; the difference is of the most serious and momentous amount. We must speak out.
Their Christianity is not Christianity. It wants the radical principle. It is mainly defective
in all the grand constituents. Let them no longer then be deceived by names in a matter of
infinite importance: but with humble prayer to the Source of all wisdom, that he would enlighten
their understandings, and clear their hearts from prejudice; let them seriously examine by
the Scripture standard their real belief and allowed practice, and they will become sensible
of the shallowness of their scanty system.

If through the blessing of Providence on any thing which may have been here written, there
should be any whom it has disposed to this important duty of self-inquiry; let me previously
warn them to be well aware of our natural proneness to think too favourably of ourselves. Selfishness
is one of the principal fruits of the corruption of human nature; and it is obvious that selfishness
disposes us to over-rate our good qualities, and to overlook or extenuate our defects. The
corruption of human nature therefore being admitted, it follows undeniably, that in all our
reckonings, if we would form a just estimate of our character, we must make an allowance for
the effects of selfishness. It is also another effect of the corruption of human nature, to
cloud our moral sight, and blunt our moral sensibility. Something must therefore be allowed
for this effect likewise. Doubtless, the perfect purity of the Supreme Being makes him see
in us stains, far more in number and deeper in dye; than we ourselves can discover. Nor should
another awful consideration be forgotten. When we look into ourselves, those sins only, into
which we have lately fallen, are commonly apt to excite any lively impression. Many individual
acts of vice, or a continued course of vicious or dissipated conduct, which, when recent, may
have smitten us with deep remorse, after a few months or years leave but very faint traces
in our recollection; at least, those acts alone continue to strike us strongly, which were
of very extraordinary magnitude. But the strong impressions which they at first excited, not
the faded images which they subsequently present to us, furnish the true measure of their guilt:
and to the pure eyes of God, this guilt must always have appeared far greater than to us. Now
to the Supreme Being we must believe that there is no past or future; as whatever will be,
so whatever has been, is retained by him in present and unvarying contemplation, continuing
always to appear just the same as at the first moment of its happening. Well may it then humble
us in the sight of that Being "who is of purer eyes than to behold iniquity;" to call to mind
that, unless our offences have been blotted out by our obtaining an interest in the satisfaction
of Christ, through true repentance and lively faith, we appear before him clothed with the
sins of our whole lives, in all their original depth of colouring, and with all the aggravations
which we no longer particularly remember, but which, in general, we, perhaps, may recollect
to have once filled us with shame and confusion of face. The writer is the rather desirous
of enforcing this reflection; because he can truly declare, that he has found no consideration
so efficacious in producing in his own mind the deepest self-abasement.

In treating of the sources of the erroneous estimates which we form of our religious and moral
character, it may not, perhaps, be without its uses to take this occasion of pointing out some
other common springs of self-deception. Many persons, as was formerly hinted, are misled by
the favourable opinions entertained of them by others; many, it is to be feared, mistake a
hot zeal for orthodoxy, for a cordial acceptance of the great truths of the Gospel; and almost
all of us, at one time or other, are more or less misled by confounding the suggestions of
the understanding with the impulses of the will, the assent which our judgment gives to religious
and moral truths, with a hearty belief and approbation of them.

There is another frequent source of self-deception, which is productive of so much mischief
in life, that, though it may appear to lead to some degree of repetition, it would be highly
improper to omit the mention of it in this place. That we may be the better understood, it
may be proper to premise, that certain particular vices, and likewise that certain particular
good and amiable qualities, seem naturally to belong to certain particular periods and conditions
of life. Now, if we would reason fairly in estimating our moral character, we ought to examine
ourselves with reference to that particular "sin which does most easily beset us," not to some
other sin to which we are not nearly so much liable. And in like manner, on the other hand,
we ought not to account it matter of much self-complacency, if we find in ourselves that good
and amiable quality which naturally belongs to our period or condition; but rather look for
some less ambiguous sign of a real internal principle of virtue. But we are very apt to reverse
these rules of judging: we are very apt, on the one hand, both in ourselves and in others,
to excuse "the besetting sin," taking and giving credit for being exempt from others, to which
we or they are less liable; and on the other hand, to value ourselves extremely on our possession
of the good or amiable quality which naturally belongs to us, and to require no more satisfactory
evidence of the sufficiency at least of our moral character. The bad effects of this partiality
are aggravated by the practice, to which we are sadly prone, of being contented, when we take
a hasty view of ourselves, with negative evidences of our state; thinking it very well if we
are not shocked by some great actual transgression, instead of looking for the positive signs
of a true Christian, as laid down in the holy Scripture.

But the source of self-deception, which it is more particularly our present object to point
out, is a disposition to consider as a conquest of any particular vice, our merely forsaking
it on our quitting the period or condition of life to which that vice belongs; when perhaps
also we substitute for it the vice of the new period or condition on which we are entering.
We thus mistake our merely outgrowing our vices, or our relinquishing them from some change
in our worldly circumstances, for a thorough, or at least for a sufficient, reformation.

But this topic deserves to be viewed a little more closely. Young people may, without much
offence, be inconsiderate and dissipated; the youth of one sex may indulge occasionally in
licentious excesses; those of the other may be supremely given up to vanity and pleasure: yet,
provided that they are sweet tempered, and open, and not disobedient to their parents or other
superiors, the former are deemed good hearted young men, the latter, innocent young women.
Those who love them best have no solicitude about their spiritual interests: and it would be
deemed strangely strict in themselves, or in others, to doubt of their becoming more religious
as they advance in life; to speak of them as being actually under the divine displeasure; or,
if their lives should be in danger, to entertain any apprehensions concerning their future destiny.

They grow older, and marry. The same licentiousness, which was formerly considered in young
men as a venial frailty, is now no longer regarded in the husband and the father as compatible
with the character of a decently religious man. The language is of this sort; "they have sown
their wild oats, they must now reform, and be regular." Nor perhaps is the same manifest predominance
of vanity and dissipation deemed innocent in the matron: but if they are kind respectively
in their conjugal and parental relations, and are tolerably regular and decent, they pass for
mighty good sort of people; and it would be altogether unnecessary scrupulosity in them to
doubt of their coming up to the requisitions of the divine law, as far as in the present state
of the world can be expected from human frailty. Their hearts, however, are perhaps no more
than before supremely set on the great work of their salvation, but are chiefly bent on increasing
their fortunes, or raising their families. Meanwhile they congratulate themselves on their
having amended from vices, which they are no longer strongly tempted to commit, or their abstaining
from which ought not to be too confidently assumed as a test of the strength of the religious
principle, since the commission of them would prejudice their characters, and perhaps injure
their fortune in life.

Old age has at length made its advances. Now, if ever, we might expect that it would be deemed
high time to make eternal things the main object of attention. No such thing! There is still
an appropriate good quality, the presence of which calms the disquietude, and satisfies the
requisitions both of themselves and of those around them. It is now required of them that they
should be good natured and cheerful, indulgent to the frailties and follies of the young; remembering,
that when young themselves they gave into the same practices. How opposite this to that dread
of sin, which is the sure characteristic of the true Christian; which causes him to look back
upon the vices of his own youthful days with shame and sorrow; and which, instead of conceding
to young people to be wild and thoughtless, as a privilege belonging to their age and circumstances,
prompts him to warn them against what had proved to himself matter of such bitter retrospection!
Thus, throughout the whole of life, some means or other are devised for stifling the voice
of conscience. "We cry peace while there is no peace;" and both to ourselves and others that
complacency is furnished, which ought only to proceed from a consciousness of being reconciled
to God, and a humble hope of our possessing his favour.

I know that these sentiments will be termed uncharitable; but I must not be deterred by such
an imputation. It is time to have done with that senseless cant of charity, which insults the
understandings, and trifles with the feelings, of those who are really concerned for the happiness
of their fellow-creatures. What matter of keen remorse and of bitter self-reproaches are they
storing up for their future torment, who are themselves its miserable dupes; or who, being
charged with the office of watching over the eternal interests of their children or relations,
suffer themselves to be lulled asleep, or beguiled by such shallow reasonings into sparing
themselves the momentary pain of executing their important duty! Charity, indeed, is partial
to the object of her regard; and where actions are of a doubtful quality, this partiality disposes
her to refer them to a good, rather than to a bad, motive. She is apt also somewhat to exaggerate
merits, and to see amiable qualities in a light more favourable than that which strictly belongs
to them. But true charity is wakeful, fervent, full of solicitude, full of good offices, not
so easily satisfied, not so ready to believe that every thing is going on well as a matter
of course; but jealous of mischief, apt to suspect danger, and prompt to extend relief. These
are the symptoms by which genuine regard will manifest itself in a wife or a mother, in the
case of the bodily health of the object of her affections. And where there is any real concern
for the spiritual interests of others, it is characterized by the same infallible marks. That
wretched quality, by which the sacred name of charity is now so generally and so falsely usurped,
is no other than indifference; which, against the plainest evidence, or at least where there
is strong ground of apprehension, is easily contented to believe that all goes well, because
it has no anxieties to allay, no fears to repress. It undergoes no alternation of passions;
it is not at one time flushed with hope, nor at another chilled by disappointment.

To a considerate and feeling mind, there is something deeply afflicting, in seeing the engaging
cheerfulness and cloudless gaiety incident to youth, welcomed as a sufficient indication of
internal purity by the delighted parents; who, knowing the deceitfulness of these flattering
appearances, should eagerly avail themselves of this period, when once wasted never to be regained,
of good humoured acquiescence and dutiful docility: a period when the soft and ductile temper
of the mind renders it more easily susceptible of the impressions we desire; and when, therefore,
habits should be formed, which may assist our natural weakness to resist the temptations to
which we shall be exposed in the commerce of maturer life. This is more especially affecting
in the female sex, because that sex seems, by the very constitution of its nature, to be more
favourably disposed than ours to the feelings and offices of Religion; being thus fitted by
the bounty of Providence, the better to execute the important task which devolves on it, of
the education of our earliest youth. Doubtless, this more favourable disposition to Religion
in the female sex, was graciously designed also to make women doubly valuable in the wedded
state: and it seems to afford to the married man the means of rendering an active share in
the business of life more compatible, than it would otherwise be, with the liveliest devotional
feelings; that when the husband should return to his family, worn and harassed by worldly cares
or professional labours, the wife, habitually preserving a warmer and more unimpaired spirit
of devotion, than is perhaps consistent with being immersed in the bustle of life, might revive
his languid piety; and that the religious impressions of both might derive new force and tenderness
from the animating sympathies of conjugal affection. Can a more pleasing image be presented
to a considerate mind, than that of a couple, happy in each other and in the pledges of their
mutual love, uniting in an act of grateful adoration to the author of all their mercies; recommending
each other, and the objects of their common care, to the divine protection; and repressing
the solicitude of conjugal and parental tenderness by a confiding hope, that, through all the
changes of this uncertain life, the Disposer of all things will assuredly cause all to work
together for the good of them that love and put their trust in him; and that, after this uncertain
state shall have passed away, they shall be admitted to a joint participation of never ending
happiness. It is surely no mean or ignoble office which we would allot to the female sex, when
we would thus commit to them the charge of maintaining in lively exercise whatever emotions
most dignify and adorn human nature; when we would make them as it were the medium of our intercourse
with the heavenly world, the faithful repositories of the religious principle, for the benefit
both of the present and of the rising generation. Must it not then excite our grief and indignation,
when we behold mothers, forgetful at once of their own peculiar duties, and of the high office
which Providence designed their daughters to fulfil; exciting, instead of endeavoring to moderate
in them, the natural sanguineness and inconsiderateness of youth; hurrying them night after
night to the resorts of dissipation; thus teaching them to despise the common comforts of the
family circle; and, instead of striving to raise their views, and to direct their affections
to their true object, acting as if with the express design studiously to extinguish every spark
of a devotional spirit, and to kindle in its stead an excessive love of pleasure, and, perhaps,
a principle of extravagant vanity, and ardent emulation!

Innocent young women! Good hearted young men! Wherein does this goodness of heart and this
innocence appear? Remember that we are fallen creatures, born in sin, and naturally depraved.
Christianity recognises no innocence or goodness of heart, but in the remission of sin, and
in the effects of the operation of divine grace. Do we find in these young persons the characters,
which the holy Scriptures lay down as the only satisfactory evidences of a safe state? Do we
not on the other hand discover the specified marks of a state of alienation from God? Can the
blindest partiality persuade itself that they are loving, or striving "to love God with all
their hearts, and minds, and souls, and strength?" Are they "seeking first the kingdom of God,
and his righteousness?" Are they "working out their salvation with fear and trembling?" Are
they "clothed with humility?" Are they not, on the contrary, supremely given up to self-indulgence?
Are they not at least "lovers of pleasure more than lovers of God?" Are the offices of Religion
their solace or their task? Do they not come to these sacred services with reluctance, continue
in them by constraint, and quit them with gladness? Are not the youth of one sex often actually
committing, and still more often wishing for the opportunity to commit, those sins of which
the Scripture says expressly, "that they which do such things shall not inherit the kingdom
of God?" Are not the youth of the other mainly intent on the gratification of vanity; and looking
for their chief happiness to the resorts of gaiety and fashion, to all the multiplied pleasures
which public places, or the still higher gratifications of more refined circles, can supply?

And then, when the first ebullitions of youthful warmth are over, what is their boasted reformation?
They may be decent, sober, useful, respectable, as members of the community, or amiable in
the relations of domestic life. But is this the change of which the Scripture speaks? Hear
the expressions which it uses, and judge for yourselves--"Except a man be born again, he cannot
enter into the kingdom of God."--"The old man--is corrupt according to the deceitful lusts;"
an expression but too descriptive of the vain delirium of youthful dissipation, and of the
false dreams of pleasure which it inspires; but "the new man" is awakened from this fallacious
estimate of happiness; "he is renewed in knowledge after the image of him that created him"--"He
is created after God in righteousness and true holiness." The persons of whom we are speaking
are no longer, indeed, so thoughtless, and wild, and dissipated, as formerly; so negligent
in their attention to objects of real value; so eager in the pursuit of pleasure; so prone
to yield to the impulse of appetite. But this is no more than the change of which a writer
of no very strict cast speaks, as naturally belonging to their riper age:

    Conversis studiis, ætas animusque virilis
    Quærit opus, & amicitias: inservit honori:
    Commisisse cavet, quod mox mutare laboret.
                                              HOR.

This is a point of infinite importance: let it not be thought tedious to spend even yet a few
more moments in the discussion of it. Put the question to another issue, and try it, by appealing
to the principle of life being a state of probation; (a proposition, indeed, true in a certain
sense, though not exactly in that which is sometimes assigned to it,) and you will still be
led to no very different conclusion. Probation implies resisting, in obedience to the dictates
of Religion, appetites which we are naturally prompted to gratify. Young people are not tempted
to be churlish, interested, covetous; but to be inconsiderate and dissipated, "lovers of pleasure
more than lovers of God." People again in middle age are not so strongly tempted to be thoughtless,
and idle, and licentious. From excesses of this sort they are sufficiently withheld, particularly
when happily settled in domestic life, by a regard to their characters, by the restraints of
family connections, and by a sense of what is due to the decencies of the married state. Their
probation is of another sort; they are tempted to be supremely engrossed by worldly cares,
by family interests, by professional objects, by the pursuit of wealth or of ambition. Thus
occupied, they are tempted to "mind earthly rather than heavenly things," forgetting "the one
thing needful;" to "set their affections" on temporal rather than eternal concerns, and to
take up with "a form of godliness," instead of seeking to experience the power thereof: the
foundations of this nominal Religion being laid, as was formerly explained more at large, in
the forgetfulness, if not in the ignorance, of the peculiar doctrines of Christianity. These
are the ready-made Christians formerly spoken of, who consider Christianity as a geographical
term, properly applicable to all those who have been born and educated in a country wherein
Christianity is professed; not as indicating a renewed nature, as expressive of a peculiar
character, with its appropriate desires and aversions, and hopes, and fears, and joys, and sorrows.

If there be any who is inclined to listen to this solemn warning, who is awakened from his
dream of false security, and is disposed to be not only almost but altogether a Christian--O!
let him not stifle or dissipate these beginnings of seriousness, but sedulously cherish them
as the "workings of the Divine Spirit," which would draw him from the "broad" and crowded "road
of destruction into the narrow" and thinly peopled path "that leadeth to life." Let him retire
from the multitude--Let him enter into his closet, and on his bended knees implore, for Christ's
sake and in reliance on his mediation, that God would "take away from him the heart of stone,
and give him a heart of flesh;" that the Father of light would open his eyes to his true condition,
and clear his heart from the clouds of prejudice, and dissipate the deceitful medium of self-love.
Then let him carefully examine his past life, and his present course of conduct, comparing
himself with God's word: and considering how any one might reasonably have been expected to
conduct himself, to whom the Holy Scriptures had been always open, and who had been used to
acknowledge them to be the revelation of the will of his Creator, and Governor, and Supreme
Benefactor; let him there peruse the awful denunciations against impenitent sinners; let him
labour to become more and more deeply impressed with a sense of his own radical blindness and
corruption; above all, let him steadily contemplate, in all its bearings and connections, that
stupendous truth, the incarnation and crucifixion of the only begotten Son of God, and the
message of mercy proclaimed from the cross to repenting sinners.--"Be ye reconciled unto God."--"Believe
in the Lord Jesus Christ, and thou shalt be saved."

When he fairly estimates the guilt of sin by the costly satisfaction which was required to
atone for it, and the worth of his soul by the price which was paid for its redemption, and
contrasts both of these with his own sottish inconsiderateness; when he reflects on the amazing
love and pity of Christ, and on the cold and formal acknowledgments with which he has hitherto
returned this infinite obligation, making light of the precious blood of the Son of God, and
trifling with the gracious invitations of his Redeemer: surely, if he be not lost to sensibility,
mixed emotions of guilt, and fear, and shame, and remorse, and sorrow, will nearly overwhelm
his soul; he will smite upon his breast, and cry out in the language of the publican, "God
be merciful to me a sinner." But, blessed be God, such an one needs not despair--it is to persons
in this very situation, and with these very feelings, that the offers of the Gospel are held
forth, and its promises assured; "to the weary and heavy laden" under the burden of their sins;
to them who thirst for the water of life; to them who feel themselves "tied and bound by the
chain of their sins;" who abhor their captivity, and long earnestly for deliverance. Happy,
happy souls! which the grace of God has visited, "has brought out of darkness into his marvellous
light," and "from the power of Satan unto God." Cast yourselves then on his undeserved mercy;
he is full of love, and will not spurn you: surrender yourselves into his hands, and solemnly
resolve, through his Grace, to dedicate henceforth all your faculties and powers to his service.

It is your's now "to work out your own salvation with fear and trembling," relying on the fidelity
of him who has promised to "work in you both to will and to do of his good pleasure." Ever
look to him for help: your only safety consists in a deep and abiding sense of your own weakness,
and in a firm reliance on his strength. If you "give all diligence," his power is armed for
your protection, his truth is pledged for your security. You are enlisted under the banner
of Christ--Fear not, though the world, and the flesh, and the devil are set in array against
you.--"Faithful is he that hath promised;"--"be ye also faithful unto death, and he will give
you a crown of life."--"He that endureth to the end, the same shall be saved." In such a world
as this, in such a state of society as ours, especially if in the higher walks of life, you
must be prepared to meet with many difficulties:--arm yourselves, therefore, in the first place,
with a determined resolution not to rate human estimation beyond its true value; not to dread
the charge of particularity, when it shall be necessary to incur it; but as was before recommended,
let it be your constant endeavour to retain before your mental eye, that bright assemblage
of invisible spectators, who are the witnesses of your daily conduct, and "to seek that honour
which cometh from God." You cannot advance a single step, till you are in some good measure
possessed of this comparative indifference to the favour of men. We have before explained ourselves
too clearly to render it necessary to declare, that no one should needlessly affect singularity:
but to aim at incompatible advantages, to seek to please God and the world, where their commands
are really at variance, is the way to be neither respectable, nor good, nor happy. Continue
to be ever aware of your own radical corruption and habitual weakness. Indeed, if your eyes
be really opened, and your heart truly softened, "hungering and thirsting after righteousness,"
rising in your ideas of true holiness, and proving the genuineness of your hope by desiring
"to purify yourself even as God is pure;" you will become daily more and more sensible of your
own defeats, and wants, and weaknesses; and more and more impressed by a sense of the mercy
and long suffering of that gracious Saviour, "who forgiveth all your sin, and healeth all your
infirmities."

This is the solution of what to a man of the world might seem a strange paradox, that in proportion
as the Christian grows in grace, he grows also in humility. Humility is indeed the vital principle
of Christianity; that principle by which from first to last she lives and thrives, and in proportion
to the growth or decline of which she must decay or flourish. This first disposes the sinner
in deep self-abasement to accept the others of the Gospel; this, during his whole progress,
is the very ground and basis of his feelings and conduct, both in relation to God, his fellow
creatures, and himself; and when at length he shall be translated into the realms of glory,
this principle shall still subsist in undiminished force: He shall "fall down; and cast his
crown before the Lamb; and ascribe blessing, and honour, and glory, and power, to him that
sitteth upon the throne, and to the Lamb for ever and ever." The practical benefits of this
habitual lowliness of spirit are too numerous, and at the same time too obvious; to require
enumeration. It will lead you to dread the beginnings, and fly from the occasions of sin; as
that man would shun some infectious distemper, who should know that he was pre-disposed to
take the contagion. It will prevent a thousand difficulties, and decide a thousand questions,
concerning worldly compliances; by which those persons are apt to be embarrassed, who are not
duly sensible of their own exceeding frailty, whose views of the Christian character are not
sufficiently elevated, and who are not enough possessed with a continual fear of "grieving
the Holy Spirit of God," and of thus provoking him to withdraw his gracious influence. But
if you are really such as we have been describing, you need not be urged to set the standard
of practice high, and to strive after universal holiness. It is the desire of your hearts to
act in all things with a single eye to the favour of God, and thus the most ordinary actions
of life are raised into offices of Religion. This is the purifying, the transmuting principle,
which realizes the fabled touch, which changes all to gold. But it belongs to this desire of
pleasing God, that we should be continually solicitous to discover the path of duty; that we
should not indolently wait, satisfied with not refusing occasions of glorifying God, when they
are forced upon us; but that we should pray to God for wisdom and spiritual understanding,
that we may be, acute in discerning opportunities of serving him in the world, and judicious
in selecting and wise in improving them. Guard indeed against the distraction of worldly cares;
and cultivate heavenly mindedness, and a spirit of continual prayer, and neglect not to watch
incessantly over the workings of your deceitful heart: but be active also, and useful. Let
not your precious time be wasted "in shapeless idleness;" an admonition which, in our days,
is rendered but too necessary by the relaxed habits of persons even of real piety: but wisely
husband and improve this fleeting treasure. Never be satisfied with your present attainments;
but "forgetting the things which are behind," labour still to "press forward" with undiminished
energy, and to run the race that is set before you without flagging in your course.

Above all, measure your progress by your improvement in love to God and man. "God is Love."
This is the sacred principle, which warms and enlightens the heavenly world, that blessed feat
of God's visible presence. There it shines with unclouded radiance. Some scattered beams of
it are graciously lent to us on earth, or we had been benighted and left in darkness and misery;
but a larger portion of it is infused into the hearts of the servants of God, who thus "are
renewed in the divine likeness," and even here exhibit some faint traces of the image of their
heavenly Father. It is the principle of love which disposes them to yield themselves up without
reserve to the service of him, "who has bought them with the price of his own blood."

Servile, and base, and mercenary, is the notion of Christian practice among the bulk of nominal
Christians. They give no more than they dare not with-hold; they abstain from nothing but what
they must not practise. When you state to them the doubtful quality of any action, and the
consequent obligation to desist from it, they reply to you in the very spirit of Shylock, "they
cannot find it in the bond." In short, they know Christianity only as a system of restraints.
She is despoiled of every liberal and generous principle: she is rendered almost unfit for
the social intercourses of life, and is only suited to the gloomy walls of that cloister, in
which they would confine her. But true Christians consider themselves not as satisfying some
rigorous creditor, but as discharging a debt of gratitude. Their's is accordingly not the stinted
return of a constrained obedience, but the large and liberal measure of a voluntary service.
This principle, therefore, as was formerly remarked, and has been recently observed of true
Christian humility, prevents a thousand practical embarrassments, by which they are continually
harassed, who act from a less generous motive; and who require it to be clearly ascertained
to them, that any gratification or worldly compliance, which may be in question, is beyond
the allowed boundary line of Christian practice[124]. This principle regulates the true Christian's
choice of companions and friends, where he is at liberty to make an option; this fills him
with the desire of promoting the temporal well-being of all around him, and still more with
pity and love, and anxious solicitude for their spiritual welfare. Indifference indeed in this
respect is one of the surest signs of a low or declining state in Religion. This animating
principle it is, which in the true Christian's happier hour inspirits his devotions, and causes
him to delight in the worship of God; which fills him with consolation, and peace, and gladness,
and sometimes even enables him "to rejoice with joy unspeakable and full of glory."

But this world is not his resting place: here, to the very last, he must be a pilgrim and a
stranger; a soldier, whose warfare ends only with life, ever struggling and combating with
the powers of darkness, and with the temptations of the world around him, and the still more
dangerous hostilities of internal depravity. The perpetual vicissitudes of this uncertain state,
the peculiar trials and difficulties with which the life of a Christian is chequered, and still
more, the painful and humiliating remembrance of his own infirmities, teach him to look forward,
almost with outstretched neck, to that promised day, when he shall be completely delivered
from the bondage of corruption, and sorrow and sighing shall flee away. In the anticipation
of that blessed period, and comparing this churlish and turbulent world, where competition,
and envy, and anger, and revenge, so vex and agitate the sons of men, with that blissful region
where Love shall reign without disturbance, and where all being knit together in bonds of indissoluble
friendship, shall unite in one harmonious song of praise to the Author of their common happiness,
the true Christian triumphs over the fear of death: he longs to realize these cheering images,
and to obtain admission into that blessed company.--With far more justice than it was originally
used, he may adopt the beautiful exclamation--"O præclarum illum diem, cum ad illud divinum
animorum concilium coetumque proficiscar, atque ex hac turba et colluvione discedam!"

What has been now as well as formerly remarked, concerning the habitual feelings of the real
believer, may suggest a reply to an objection common in the mouths of nominal Christians, that
we would deny men the innocent amusements and gratifications of life; thus causing our Religion
to wear a gloomy forbidding aspect, instead of her true and natural face of cheerfulness and
joy. This is a charge of so serious a nature, that although it lead into a digression, it may
not be improper to take some notice of it.

In the first place, Religion prohibits no amusement or gratification which is really innocent.
The question, however, of its innocence, must not be tried by the loose maxims of worldly morality,
but by the spirit of the injunctions of the word of God; and by the indulgence being conformable
or not conformable to the genius of Christianity, and to the tempers and dispositions of mind
enjoined on its professors. There can be no dispute concerning the true end of recreations.
They are intended to refresh our exhausted bodily or mental powers, and to restore us, with
renewed vigour, to the more serious occupations of life. Whatever, therefore, fatigues either
body or mind, instead of refreshing them, is not fitted to answer the designed purpose. Whatever
consumes more time, or money, or thought, than it is expedient (I might say necessary) to allot
to mere amusement, can hardly be approved by any one who considers these talents as precious
deposits for the expenditure of which he will have to give account. Whatever directly or indirectly
must be likely to injure the welfare of a fellow creature, can scarcely be a suitable recreation
for a Christian, who is "to love his neighbour as himself;" or a very consistent diversion
for any one, the business of whose life is to diffuse happiness.

But does a Christian never relax? Let us not so wrong and vilify the bounty of Providence,
as to allow for a moment that the sources of innocent amusement are so rare, that men must
be driven, almost by constraint, to such as are of a doubtful quality. On the contrary, such
has been the Creator's goodness, that almost every one, both of our physical and intellectual,
and moral faculties (and the same may be said of the whole creation which we see around us)
is not only calculated to answer the proper end of its being, by its subserviency to some purpose
of solid usefulness, but to be the instrument of administering pleasure.

                          Not content
    With every food of life to nourish man,
    Thou mak'st all nature beauty to his eye
    And music to his ear.

Our Maker also, in his kindness, has so constructed us, that even mere vicissitude is grateful
and refreshing--a consideration which should prompt us often to seek, from a prudent variation
of useful pursuits, that recreation, for which we are apt to resort to what is altogether,
unproductive and unfruitful.

Yet rich and multiplied are the springs of innocent relaxation. The Christian relaxes in the
temperate use of all the gifts of Providence. Imagination, and taste, and genius, and the beauties
of creation, and the works of art, lie open to him. He relaxes in the feast of reason, in the
intercourses of society, in the sweets of friendship, in the endearments of love, in the exercise
of hope, of confidence, of joy, of gratitude, of universal good will, of all the benevolent
and generous affections; which, by the gracious ordination of our Creator, while they disinterestedly
intend only happiness to others, are most surely productive to ourselves of complacency and
peace. O! little do they know of the true measure of enjoyment, who can compare these delightful
complacencies with the frivolous pleasures of dissipation, or the coarse gratifications of
sensuality. It is no wonder, however, that the nominal Christian should reluctantly give up,
one by one, the pleasures of the world; and look back upon them, when relinquished, with eyes
of wistfulness and regret: because he knows not the sweetness of the delights with which true
Christianity repays those trifling sacrifices, and is greatly unacquainted with the nature
of that pleasantness which is to be found in the ways of Religion.

It is indeed true, that when any one, who has long been going on in the gross and unrestrained
practice of vice, is checked in his career, and enters at first on a religious course, he has
much to undergo. Fear, guilt, remorse, shame, and various other passions, struggle and conflict
within him. His appetites are clamorous for their accustomed gratification, and inveterate
habits are scarcely to be denied. He is weighed down by a load of guilt, and almost overwhelmed
by the sense of his unworthiness. But all this ought in fairness to be charged to the account
of his past sins, and not to that of his present repentance. It rarely happens, however, that
this state of suffering continues very long. When the mental gloom is the blackest, a ray of
heavenly light occasionally breaks in, and suggests the hope of better days. Even in this life
it commonly holds true, "They that sow in tears shall reap in joy."

Neither, when we maintain, that the ways of Religion are ways of pleasantness, do we mean to
deny that the Christian's internal state is, through the whole of his life, a state of discipline
and warfare. Several of the causes which contribute to render it such have been already pointed
out, together with the workings of his mind in relation to them: but if he has solicitudes
and griefs peculiar to himself, he has "joys also with which a stranger intermeddles not."

"Drink deep," however, "or taste not," is a direction full as applicable to Religion, if we
would find it a source of pleasure, as it is to knowledge. A little Religion is, it must be
confessed, apt to make men gloomy, as a little knowledge to render them vain: hence the unjust
imputation often brought upon Religion by those, whose degree of Religion is just sufficient,
by condemning their course of conduct, to render them uneasy: enough merely to impair the sweetness
of the pleasures of sin, and not enough to compensate for the relinquishment of them by its
own peculiar comforts. Thus these men bring up, as it were, an ill report of that land of promise,
which, in truth, abounds with whatever, in our journey through life, can best refresh and strengthen
us.

We have enumerated some sources of pleasure which men of the world may understand, and must
acknowledge to belong to the true Christian; but there are others, and those of a still higher
class, to which they must confess themselves strangers. To say nothing of a qualified, I dare
not say an entire, exemption from those distracting passions and corroding cares, by which
he must naturally be harassed, whose treasure is within the reach of mortal accidents; there
is the humble quiet-giving hope of being reconciled to God, and of enjoying his favour; with
that solid peace of mind, which the world can neither give nor take away, that results from
a firm confidence in the infinite wisdom and goodness of God, and in the unceasing care and
kindness of a generous Saviour: and there is the persuasion of the truth of the divine assurance,
that all things shall work together for good.

When the pulse indeed beats high, and we are flushed with youth, and health, and vigour; when
all goes on prosperously, and success seems almost to anticipate our wishes; then we feel not
the want of the consolations of Religion: but when fortune frowns, or friends forsake us; when
sorrow, or sickness, or old age, comes upon us, then it is, that the superiority of the pleasures
of Religion is established over those of dissipation and vanity, which are ever apt to fly
from us when we are most in want of their aid. There is scarcely a more melancholy sight to
a considerate mind, than that of an old man, who is a stranger to those only true sources of
satisfaction. How affecting, and at the same time how disgusting, is it to see such an one
awkwardly catching at the pleasures of his younger years, which are now beyond his reach; or
feebly attempting to retain them, while they mock his endeavours and elude his grasp! To such
an one, gloomily indeed does the evening of life set in! All is sour and cheerless.

Never were there times which inculcated more forcibly than those in which we live, the wisdom
of seeking a happiness beyond the reach of human vicissitudes. What striking lessons have we
had of the precarious tenure of all sublunary possessions! Wealth, and power, and prosperity,
how peculiarly transitory and uncertain! But Religion dispenses her choicest cordials in the
seasons of exigence, in poverty, in exile, in sickness, and in death. The essential superiority
of that support which is derived from Religion is less felt, at least it is less apparent,
when the Christian is in full possession of riches, and splendour, and rank, and all the gifts
of nature and fortune. But when all these are swept away by the rude hand of time, or the rough
blasts of adversity, the true Christian stands, like the glory of the forest, erect and vigorous;
stripped indeed of his summer foliage, but more than ever discovering to the observing eye
the solid strength of his substantial texture:

    Pondere fixa suo est, nudosque per aera ramos
    Attollens, trunco non frondibus efficit umbram.

SECTION II.

Advice to some who profess their full Assent to the fundamental Doctrines of the Gospel.

In a former chapter we largely insisted on what may be termed the fundamental practical error
of the bulk of professed Christians in our days; their either overlooking or misconceiving
the peculiar method, which the Gospel has provided for the renovation of our corrupted nature,
and for the attainment of every Christian grace.

But there are mistakes on the right hand and on the left; and our general proneness, when we
are flying from one extreme to run into an opposite error, renders it necessary to superadd
another admonition. The generally prevailing error of the present day, indeed, is that fundamental
one which was formerly pointed out. But while we attend, in the first place, to this; and,
on the warrant both of Scripture and experience, prescribe hearty repentance and lively faith,
as the only root and foundation of all true holiness; we must at the same time guard against
a practical mistake of another kind. They who, with penitent hearts, have humbled themselves
before the cross of Christ; and who, pleading his merits as their only ground of pardon and
acceptance with God, have resolved henceforth, through the help of his Spirit, to bring forth
the fruits of righteousness, are sometimes apt to conduct themselves as if they considered
their work as now done; or at least as if this were the whole they had to do, as often as,
by falling afresh into sin, another act of repentance and faith may seem to have become necessary.
There are not a few in our relaxed age, who thus satisfy themselves with what may be termed
general Christianity; who feel general penitence and humiliation from a sense of their sinfulness
in general, and general desires of universal holiness; but who neglect that vigilant and jealous
care, with which they should labour to extirpate every particular corruption, by studying its
nature, its root, its ramifications, and thus becoming acquainted with its secret movements,
with the means whereby it gains strength, and with the most effectual methods of resisting
it. In like manner, they are far from striving with persevering alacrity for the acquisition
and improvement of every Christian grace. Nor is it unusual for ministers, who preach the truths
of the Gospel with fidelity, ability, and success, to be themselves also liable to the charge
of dwelling altogether in their instructions on this general Religion: instead of tracing and
laying open all the secret motions of inward corruption, and instructing their hearers how
best to conduct themselves in every distinct part of the Christian warfare; how best to strive
against each particular vice, and to cultivate each grace of the Christian character. Hence
it is, that in too many persons, concerning the sincerity of whose general professions of Religion
we should be sorry to entertain a doubt, we yet see little progress made in the regulation
of their tempers, in the improvement of their time, in the reform of their plan of life, or
inability to resist the temptation to which they are particularly exposed. They will confess
themselves, in general terms, to be "miserable sinners:" this is a tenet of their creed, and
they feel even proud in avowing it. They will occasionally also lament particular failings:
but this confession is sometimes obviously made, in order to draw forth a compliment for the
very opposite virtue: and where this is not the case, it is often not difficult to detect,
under this false guise of contrition, a secret self-complacency, arising from the manifestations
which they have afforded of their acuteness or candour in discovering the infirmity in question,
or of their frankness or humility in acknowledging it. This will scarcely seem an illiberal
suspicion to any one, who either watches the workings of his own heart, or who observes, that
the faults confessed in these instances are very seldom those, with which the person is most
clearly and strongly chargeable.

We must plainly warn these men, and the consideration is seriously pressed on their instructors
also, that they are in danger of deceiving themselves. Let them beware lest they be nominal
Christians of another sort. These persons require to be reminded, that there is no short compendious
method of holiness: but that it must be the business of their whole lives to grow in grace,
and continually adding one virtue to another, as far as may be, "to go on towards perfection."
"He only that doeth righteousness is righteous." Unless "they bring forth the fruits of the
Spirit," they can have no sufficient evidence that they have received that "Spirit of Christ,
without which they are none of his." But where, on the whole, our unwillingness to pass an
unfavourable judgment may lead us to indulge a hope, that "the root of the matter is found
in them;" yet we must at least declare to them, that instead of adorning the doctrine of Christ,
they disparage and discredit it. The world sees not their secret humiliation, not the exercises
of their closets, but it is acute in discerning practical weaknesses: and if it observe that
they have the same eagerness in the pursuit of wealth or ambition, the same vain taste for
ostentation and display, the same ungoverned tempers, which are found in the generality of
mankind; it will treat with contempt their pretences to superior sanctity and indifference
to worldly things, and will be hardened in its prejudices against the only mode, which God
has provided for our escaping the wrath to come, and obtaining eternal happiness.

Let him then, who would be indeed a Christian, watch over his ways and over his heart with
unceasing circumspection. Let him endeavour to learn, both from men and books, particularly
from the lives of eminent Christians[125], what methods have been actually found most effectual
for the conquest of every particular vice, and for improvement in every branch of holiness.
Thus studying his own character, and observing the most secret workings of his own mind, and
of our common nature; the knowledge which he will acquire of the human heart in general, and
especially of his own, will be of the highest utility, in enabling him to avoid or to guard
against the occasions of evil: and it will also tend, above all things, to the growth of humility,
and to the maintenance of that sobriety of spirit and tenderness of conscience, which are eminently
characteristic of the true Christian. It is by this unceasing diligence, as the Apostle declares,
that the servants of Christ must make their calling sure.

SECT. III.

Brief Observations addressed to Sceptics and Unitarians.

There is another class of men, an increasing class, it is to be feared, in this country, that
of absolute unbelievers, with which this little work has properly no concern: but may the writer,
sincerely pitying their melancholy state, be permitted to ask them one plain question? If Christianity
be not in their estimation true, yet is there not at least a presumption in its favour, sufficient
to entitle it to a serious examination; from its having been embraced, and that not blindly
and implicitly, but upon full inquiry and deep consideration, by Bacon, and Milton, and Locke,
and Newton, and much the greater part of those, who, by the reach of their understandings,
or the extent of their knowledge, and by the freedom too of their minds, and their daring to
combat existing prejudices, have called forth the respect and admiration of mankind? It might
be deemed scarcely fair to insist on Churchmen, though some of them are among the greatest
names this country has ever known. Can the sceptic in general say with truth, that he has either
prosecuted an examination into the evidences of Revelation at all, or at least with a seriousness
and diligence in any degree proportioned to the importance of the subject? The fact is, and
it is a fact which redounds to the honour of Christianity, that infidelity is not the result
of sober inquiry and deliberate preference. It is rather the slow production of a careless
and irreligious life, operating together with prejudices and erroneous conceptions, concerning
the nature of the leading doctrines and fundamental tenets of Christianity.

Take the case of young men of condition, bred up by what we have termed nominal Christians.
When children, they are carried to church, and thence they become acquainted with such parts
of Scripture as are contained in our public service. If their parents preserve still more of
the customs of better times, they are taught their Catechism, and furnished with a little farther
religious knowledge. After a while, they go from under the eyes of their parents; they enter
into the world, and move forward in the path of life, whatever it may be, which has been assigned
to them. They yield to the temptations which assail them, and become, more or less, dissipated
and licentious. At least they neglect to look into their Bible; they do not enlarge the sphere
of their religious acquisitions; they do not even endeavour, by reflection and study, to turn
into what may deserve the name of knowledge and rational conviction, the opinions which, in
their childhood, they had taken on trust.

They travel, perhaps, into foreign countries; a proceeding which naturally tends to weaken
their nursery, prejudice in favour of the Religion in which they were bred, and by removing
them from all means of public worship, to relax their practical habits of Religion. They return
home, and commonly are either hurried round in the vortex of dissipation, or engage with the
ardour of youthful minds in some public or professional pursuit. If they read or hear any thing
about Christianity, it is commonly only about those tenets which are subjects of controversy:
and what reaches their ears of the Bible, from their occasional attendance at church; though
it may sometimes impress them with an idea of the purity of Christian morality, contains much
which, coming thus detached, perplexes and offends them, and suggests various doubts and startling
objections, which a farther acquaintance with the Scripture would remove. Thus growing more
and more to know Christianity only by the difficulties it contains; sometimes tempted by the
ambition of shewing themselves superior to vulgar prejudice, and always prompted by the natural
pride of the human heart to cast off their subjection to dogmas imposed on them; disgusted,
perhaps, by the immoral lives of some professed Christians, by the weaknesses and absurdities
of others, and by what they observe to be the implicit belief of numbers, whom they see and
know to be equally ignorant with themselves, many doubts and suspicions of greater or less
extent spring up within them. These doubts enter into the mind at first almost imperceptibly:
they exist only as vague indistinct surmises, and by no means take the precise shape or the
substance of a formed opinion. At first, probably, they even offend and startle by their intrusion:
but by degrees the unpleasant sensations which they once excited wear off: the mind grows more
familiar with them. A confused sense (for such it is, rather than a formed idea) of its being
desirable that their doubts should prove well founded, and of the comfort and enlargement which
would be afforded by that proof, lends them much secret aid. The impression becomes deeper;
not in consequence of being reinforced by fresh arguments, but merely by dint of having longer
rested in the mind; and as they increase in force, they creep on and extend themselves. At
length they diffuse themselves over the whole of Religion, and possess the mind in undisturbed
occupancy.

It is by no means meant that this is universally the process. But, speaking generally, this
might be termed, perhaps not unjustly, the natural history of scepticism. It approves itself
to the experience of those who have with any care watched the progress of infidelity in persons
around them; and it is confirmed by the written lives of some of the most eminent unbelievers.
It is curious to read their own accounts of themselves, the rather as they accord so exactly
with the result of our own observation.--We find that they once perhaps gave a sort of implicit
hereditary assent to the truth of Christianity, and were what, by a mischievous perversion
of language, the world denominates believers. How were they then awakened from their sleep
of ignorance? At what moment did the light of truth beam in upon them, and dissipate the darkness
in which they had been involved? The period of their infidelity is marked by no such determinate
boundary. Reason, and thought, and inquiry had little or nothing to do with it. Having for
many years lived careless and irreligious lives, and associated with companions equally careless
and irreligious; not by force of study and reflection, but rather by the lapse of time, they
at length attained to their infidel maturity. It is worthy of remark, that where any are reclaimed
from infidelity, it is generally by a process much more rational than that which has been here
described. Something awakens them to reflection. They examine, they consider, and at length
yield their assent to Christianity on what they deem sufficient grounds.

From the account here given, it appears plainly that infidelity is generally the offspring
of prejudice, and that its success is mainly to be ascribed to the depravity of the moral character.
This fact is confirmed by the undeniable truth, that in societies, which consist of individuals,
infidelity is the natural fruit, not so much of a studious and disputatious, as of a dissipated
and vicious age. It diffuses itself in proportion as the general morals decline; and it is
embraced with less apprehension, when every infidel is kept in spirits, by seeing many around
him who are sharing fortunes with himself.

To any fair mind this consideration alone might be offered, as suggesting a strong argument
against infidelity, and in favour of Revelation. And the friends of Christianity might justly
retort the charge, which their opponents often urge with no little affectation of superior
wisdom; that we implicitly surrender ourselves to the influence of prejudice, instead of examining
dispassionately the ground of our faith, and yielding our assent only according to the degree
of evidence.

In our own days, when it is but too clear that infidelity increases, it is not in consequence
of the reasonings of the infidel writers having been much studied, but from the progress of
luxury, and the decay of morals: and, so far as this increase may be traced at all to the works
of sceptical writers; it has been produced, not by argument and discussion, but by sarcasms
and points of wit, which have operated on weak minds, or on nominal Christians, by bringing
gradually into contempt, opinions which, in their case, had only rested on the basis of blind
respect and the prejudices of education. It may therefore be laid down as an axiom, that infidelity
is in general a disease of the heart more than of the understanding. If Revelation were assailed
only by reason and argument, it would have little to fear. The literary opposers of Christianity,
from Herbert to Hume, have been seldom read. They made some stir in their day: during their
span of existence they were noisy and noxious; but like the locusts of the east, which for
a while obscure the air, and destroy the verdure, they were soon swept away and forgotten.
Their very names would be scarcely found, if Leland had not preserved them from oblivion.

The account which has been given, of the secret, but grand, source of infidelity, may perhaps
justly be extended, as being not seldom true in the case of those who deny the fundamental
doctrines of the Gospel.

In the course which we lately traced from nominal orthodoxy to absolute infidelity, Unitarianism[126]
is indeed, a sort of half-way house, if the expression may be pardoned; a stage on the journey,
where sometimes a person indeed finally stops, but where, not unfrequently, he only pauses
for a while, and then pursues his progress.

The Unitarian teachers by no means profess to absolve their followers from the unbending strictness
of Christian morality. They prescribe the predominant love of God, and an habitual spirit of
devotion: but it is an unquestionable fact; a fact which they themselves almost admit, that
this class of religionists is not in general distinguished for superior purity of life; and
still less for that frame of mind, which, by the injunction "to be spiritually, not carnally,
minded," the word of God prescribes to us, as one of the surest tests of our experiencing the
vital power of Christianity. On the contrary, in point of fact, Unitarianism seems to be resorted
to, not merely by those who are disgusted with the peculiar doctrines of Christianity; but
by those also who are seeking a refuge from the strictness of her practical precepts; and who,
more particularly, would escape from the obligation which she imposes on her adherents, rather
to incur the dreaded charge of singularity, than fall in with the declining manners of a dissipated
age.

Unitarianism, where it may be supposed to proceed from the understanding rather than from the
heart, is not unfrequently produced by a confused idea of the difficulties, or, as they are
termed, the impossibilities which orthodox Christianity is supposed to involve. It is not our
intention to enter into the controversy:[127] but it may not be improper to make one remark
as a guard to persons in whose way the arguments of the Unitarians may be likely to fall; namely,
that one great advantage possessed by Deists, and perhaps in a still greater degree by Unitarians,
in their warfare with the Christian system, results from the very circumstances of their being
the assailants. They urge what they state to be powerful arguments against the truth of the
fundamental doctrines of Christianity, and then call upon men to abandon them as posts no longer
tenable. But they, who are disposed to yield to this assault, should call to mind, that it
has pleased God so to establish the constitution of all things, that perplexing difficulties
and plausible objections may be adduced against the most established truths; such, for instance,
as the being of a God, and many others both physical and moral. In all cases, therefore, it
becomes us, not on a partial view to reject any proposition, because it is attended with difficulties;
but to compare the difficulties which it involves, with those which attend the alternative
proposition which must be embraced on its rejection. We should put to the proof the alternative
proposition in its turn, and see whether it be not still less tenable than that which we are
summoned to abandon. In short, we should examine circumspectly on all sides; and abide by that
opinion which, on carefully balancing all considerations, appears fairly entitled to our preference.
Experience, however, will have convinced the attentive observer of those around him, that it
has been for want of adverting to this just and obvious principle, that the Unitarians in particular
have gained most of their proselytes from the Church, so far as argument has contributed to
their success. If the Unitarians, or even the Deists, were considered in their turn as masters
of the field; and were in their turn attacked, both by arguments tending to disprove their
system directly, and to disprove it indirectly, by shewing the high probability of the truth
of Christianity, and of its leading and peculiar doctrines, it is most likely that they would
soon appear wholly unable to keep their ground. In short, reasoning fairly, there is no medium
between absolute Pyrrhonism and true Christianity: and if we reject the latter on account of
its difficulties, we shall be still more loudly called upon to reject every other system which
has been offered to the acceptance of mankind. This consideration might, perhaps, with advantage
be more attended to than it has been, by those who take upon them to vindicate the truth of
our holy religion: as many, who from inconsideration, or any other cause, are disposed to give
up the great fundamentals of Christianity, would be startled by the idea, that on the same
principle on which they did this, they must give up the hope of finding any rest for the sole
of their foot on any ground of Religion, and not stop short of unqualified Atheism.

Besides the class of those who professedly reject revelation, there is another, and that also,
it is to be feared, an increasing one, which may be called the class of half-unbelievers, who
are to be found in various degrees of approximation to a state of absolute infidelity. The
system, if it deserve the name, of these men, is grossly irrational. Hearing many who assert
and many who deny the truth of Christianity, and not reflecting seriously enough to consider
that it must be either true or false, they take up a strange sort of middle opinion of its
qualified truth. They conceive that there must be something in it, though by no means to the
extent to which it is pushed by orthodox Christians. They grant the reality of future punishment,
and even that they themselves cannot altogether expect to escape it; yet, "they trust it will
not go so hard with them as the churchmen state:" and, as was formerly hinted, though disbelieving
almost every material doctrine which Christianity contains; yet, even in their own minds, they
by no means conceive themselves to be inlisted under the banners of infidelity, or to have
much cause for any great apprehension lest Christianity should prove true.

But let these men be reminded, that there is no middle way. If they can be prevailed on to
look into their Bible, and do not make up their minds absolutely to reject its authority; they
must admit that there is no ground whatever for this vain hope, which they suffer themselves
to indulge, of escaping but with a slight measure of punishment. Nor let them think their guilt
inconsiderable. Is it not grossly criminal to trifle with the long-suffering of God, to despise
alike his invitations and his threatenings, and the offer of his Spirit of grace, and the precious
blood of the Redeemer? Far different is the Scripture estimate; "How shall we escape if we
neglect so great salvation?" "It shall be more tolerable for Sodom and Gomorrah, in the day
of judgment," than for them, who voluntarily shut their eyes against that full light, which
the bounty of Heaven has poured out upon them. These half-unbelievers are even more reprehensible
than downright sceptics, for remaining in this state of careless uncertainty, without endeavouring
to ascertain the truth or falsehood of revelation. The probability which they admit, that it
may be true, imposes on them an additional and an undeniable obligation to inquiry. But both
to them and to decided sceptics it must be plainly declared, that they are in these days less
excusable than ever, for not looking into the grounds and proofs on which is rested the truth
of Christianity; for never before were these proofs so plainly, and at so easy a rate, offered
to the consideration of mankind. Through the bounty of Providence, the more widely spreading
poison of infidelity has in our days been met with more numerous and more powerful antidotes.
One of these has been already pointed out: and it should be matter of farther gratitude to
every real Christian, that in the very place on which modern infidelity had displayed the standard
of victory, a warrior in the service of Religion, a man of the most acute discernment and profound
research, has been raised up by Providence to quell their triumph[128]. He was soon taken from
us; but happily for him and for ourselves, not till he had announced, that, like the Magi of
old, he had seen the star of Christ in the East, and had fallen down and worshipped him. Another
should be mentioned with honour, who is pursuing the track which that great man had pointed
out[129]. Henceforth let all objectors against Christianity, on the ground of its being disproved
by the oriental records, be put to silence. The strength of their cause consisted in their
ignorance, and in our own, of oriental learning. They availed themselves for a while of our
being in a state of darkness; but the light of day has at length broken in and exposed to deserved
contempt their superficial speculations.

The infatuation of these unbelievers upon trust would be less striking, if they were able altogether
to decline Christianity; and were at liberty to relinquish their pretensions to its rewards,
on condition of being exempted from its punishments. But that is not the case; they must stand
the risk of the encounter, and their eternal happiness or misery is suspended upon the issue[130].
What must be the emotions of these men, on first opening their eyes in the world of spirits,
and being convinced, too late, of the awful reality of their impending ruin? May the mercy
and the power of God awaken them from their desperate slumber, while life is yet spared, and
there is yet space for repentance!

SECTION IV.

Advice suggested by the state of the times to true Christians.

To those, who really deserve the appellation of true Christians, much has been said incidentally
in the course of the present work. It has been maintained, and the proposition will not be
disputed by any sound or experienced politician, that they are always most important members
of the community. But we may boldly assert, that there never was a period wherein, more justly
than in the present, this could be affirmed of them; whether the situation, in all its circumstances,
of our own country be attentively considered, or the general state of society in Europe. Let
them on their part seriously weigh the important station which they fill, and the various duties
which it now peculiarly enforces on them. If we consult the most intelligent accounts of foreign
countries, which have been recently published, and compare them with the reports of former
travellers; we must be convinced, that Religion and the standard of morals are every where
declining, abroad even more rapidly than in our own country. But still, the progress of irreligion,
and the decay of morals at home, are such as to alarm every considerate mind, and to forebode
the worst consequences, unless some remedy can be applied to the growing evil. We can depend
only upon true Christians for effecting, in any degree, this important service. Their system,
as was formerly stated, is that of our national church: and in proportion, therefore, as their
system prevails, or as it increases in respect and estimation, from the manifest good conduct
of its followers; in that very proportion the church is strengthened in the foundations, on
which alone it can be much longer supported, the esteem and attachment of its members, and
of the nation at large. Zeal is required in the cause of Religion; they only can feel it. The
charge of singularity must be incurred; they only will dare to encounter it. Uniformity of
conduct, and perseverance in exertion, will be requisite; among no others can we look for those
qualities.

Let true Christians then, with becoming earnestness, strive in all things to recommend their
profession, and to put to silence the vain scoffs of ignorant objectors. Let them boldly assert
the cause of Christ in an age when so many, who bear the name of Christians, are ashamed of
Him: and let them consider as devolved on Them the important duty of suspending for a while
the fall of their country, and, perhaps, of performing a still more extensive service to society
at large; not by busy interference in politics, in which it cannot but be confessed there is
much uncertainty; but rather by that sure and radical benefit of restoring the influence of
Religion, and of raising the standard of morality.

Let them be active, useful, generous towards others; manifestly moderate and self-denying in
themselves. Let them be ashamed of idleness, as they would be of the most acknowledged sin.
When Providence blesses them with affluence, let them withdraw from the competition of vanity;
and, without sordidness or absurdity, shew by their modest demeanour, and by their retiring
from display, that, without affecting singularity, they are not slaves to fashion; that they
consider it as their duty to set an example of moderation and sobriety, and to reserve for
nobler and more disinterested purposes, that money, which others selfishly waste in parade,
and dress, and equipage. Let them evince, in short, a manifest moderation in all temporal things;
as becomes those whose affections are set on higher objects than any which this world affords,
and who possess, within their own bosoms, a fund of satisfaction and comfort, which the world
seeks in vanity and dissipation. Let them cultivate a catholic spirit of universal good will,
and of amicable fellowship towards all those, of whatever sect or denomination, who, differing
from them in non-essentials, agree with them in the grand fundamentals of Religion. Let them
countenance men of real piety wherever they are found; and encourage in others every attempt
to repress the progress of vice, and to revive and diffuse the influence of Religion and virtue.
Let their earnest prayers be constantly offered, that such endeavours may be successful, and
that the abused long-suffering of God may still continue to us the invaluable privilege of
vital Christianity.

Let them pray continually for their country in this season of national difficulty. We bear
upon us but too plainly the marks of a declining empire. Who can say but that the Governor
of the universe, who declares himself to be a God who hears the prayers of his servants, may,
in answer to their intercessions, for a while avert our ruin, and continue to us the fulness
of those temporal blessings, which in such abundant measure we have hitherto enjoyed[131].
Men of the world, indeed, however they may admit the natural operation of natural causes, and
may therefore confess the effects of Religion and morality in promoting the well being of the
community; may yet, according to their humour, with a smile of complacent pity, or a sneer
of supercilious contempt, read of the service which real Christians may render to their country,
by conciliating the favour and calling down the blessing of Providence. It may appear in their
eyes an instance of the same superstitious weakness, as that which prompts the terrified inhabitant
of Sicily to bring for the image of his tutelar saint, in order to stop the destructive ravages
of Ætna. We are, however, sure, if we believe the Scripture, that God will be disposed to favour
the nation to which his servants belong; and that, in fact, such as They, have often been the
unknown and unhonoured instruments of drawing down on their country the blessings of safety
and prosperity.

But it would be an instance in myself of that very false shame which I have condemned in others,
if I were not boldly to avow my firm persuasion, that to the decline of Religion and morality
our national difficulties must both directly and indirectly be chiefly ascribed; and that my
only solid hopes for the well-being of my country depend not so much on her fleets and armies,
not so much on the wisdom of her rulers, or the spirit of her people, as on the persuasion
that she still contains many, who, in a degenerate age, love and obey the Gospel of Christ;
on the humble trust that the intercession of these may still be prevalent, that for the sake
of these, Heaven may still look upon us with an eye of favour.

Let the prayers of the Christian reader be also offered up for the success of this feeble endeavour
in the service of true Religion. God can give effect to the weakest effort; and the writer
will feel himself too much honoured, if by that which he has now been making, but a single
fellow creature should be awakened from a false security, or a single Christian, who deserves
the name, be animated to more extensive usefulness. He may seem to have assumed to himself
a task which he was ill qualified to execute. He fears he may be reproached with arrogance
and presumption for taking upon him the office of a teacher. Yet, as he formerly suggested,
it cannot be denied, that it belongs to his public situation to investigate the state of the
national Religion and morals; and that it is the part of a real patriot to endeavour to retard
their decline, and promote their revival. But if the office, in which he has been engaged,
were less intimately connected with the duties of his particular station, the candid and the
liberal mind would not be indisposed to pardon him. Let him be allowed to offer in his excuse
a desire not only to discharge a duty to his country, but to acquit himself of what he deems
a solemn and indispensable obligation to his acquaintance and his friends. Let him allege the
unaffected solicitude which he feels for the welfare of his fellow creatures. Let him urge
the fond wish he gladly would encourage; that, while, in so large a part of Europe, a false
philosophy having been preferred before the lessons of revelation, Infidelity has lifted up
her head without shame, and walked abroad boldly and in the face of day; while the practical
consequences are such as might be expected, and licentiousness and vice prevail without restraint:
here at least there might be a sanctuary, a land of Religion and piety, where the blessings
of Christianity might be still enjoyed, where the name of the Redeemer might still be honoured;
where mankind might be able to see what is, in truth, the Religion of Jesus, and what are its
blessed effects; and whence, if the mercy of God should so ordain it, the means of religious
instruction and consolation might be again extended to surrounding countries and to the world
at large.

FINIS.

INDEX.

A

Abuse of things, unfairness of arguing from it against their use, 53.

Acceptance with God, commonly prevailing notions respecting it, 85-88.
  --Scripture, and Church of England, doctrine respecting it, 88-92.
  --practical consequences, of common notions respecting it, 89.
  --true doctrine vindicated from objection, 93-94.

Addison, quoted, 162.

Affections, of their admission into Religion, 57, 58.
  --their admission into Religion reasonable, 59-62.
  --true test and measure of them in Religion, 62-65.
  --in Religion, not barely allowable, but highly necessary, 66-69.
  --our Saviour the just object of them, 69, 70.
  --objection, that they are impossible towards an invisible Being,
    discussed, 71-77.
  --little excited by public misfortunes, and why, 75, 76.
  --towards our Saviour, special grounds for them, 77, 78.
  --divine aid promised for exciting them, 79, 80.
  --our statements respecting them in Religion verified by facts,
    80, 81.
  --religious, St. Paul a striking instance of them, 61.

Ambition, votaries of, 125, 126.

Amiable tempers, discussion respecting, 178-198.
  --substituted for Religion, 179, 180.
  --value of, estimated by the standard of mere reason, 180.
  --false pretenders to them, 181.
  --real nature, when not grounded on Religion, 181, 182.
  --precarious nature, 182-184.
  --value of, on Christian principles, 186.
  --life, Christian's most so, 190, 191.
  --Christians urged to this, 192-196.
  --its just praise, 197, 198.
  --apt to deceive us, 198.

Applause, desire of, universal, 146, 147.

B.

Babington, the reverend Matthew, 259.

Benevolence, true Christian, its exalted nature, 287, 288.

Bacon, Lord, quoted, 229.

C.

Calumny, considerations which reconcile the Christian to it,
           169, 170.

Charity, true, what, and its marks, 311, 312.

Christianity, vital revival of, would invigorate church establishment,
                294.
  --vital, alone suited to lower orders, 295, 296.
  --the common system, falsely so called, 305.
  --the truest patriotism, 287-292.
  --of the world, its base nature, 324.
  --not a gloomy service, 326-332.
  --relaxations compatible with, 327, 328.
  --its solid texture, 332.
  --general, what so called, 334, 335.
  --true, requires incessant watchfulness and care, 336.
  --state in which it finds us, 30-33.
  --its present critical circumstances, 265-272.
  --reduced to a system of ethics, proofs of this, 273, 277, 278.
  --causes, which have tended to produce neglect of her peculiar
    doctrines, 269, 270, 274-276.
  --peculiar doctrines of, taught by the oldest divines and highest
    dignitaries of the English church, 273, 274.
  --peculiar doctrines gradually fallen into neglect, 276-278.
  --sad symptoms of its low state among us, 278-280.
  --objection, that our system of it too strict, stated and answered,
    280-283.
  --vital, its happy influence on temporal well-being of communities,
    283-285.
  --not hostile to patriotism, 285-287.
  --from its essential nature, peculiarly adapted to well-being of
    communities, 290-292.
  --vital, can alone produce these effects, 293.
  --excellence of it, in some particulars not commonly noticed, 252-259.
  --general state of, in England, 262.
  --its tendency to promote the well-being of political communities,
    262-288, 292, 293.
  --has raised the general standard of practice, 264, 265.
  --sickens in prosperity and flourishes under persecution, 266, 267.
  --peculiarities of, naturally slide into disuse, 269.

Christians, true, duties especially incumbent on them in these times,
              350-353.
  --should pray for their country, 351.
  --their prayers intreated for the success of this work, 353.
  --ready made, who esteemed such, 318.
  --real, how different from nominal, 214, 215.
  --life, illustrated by figure of a traveller, 217-219.

Commons, House of, proves inordinate love of worldly glory, 159.

Consistency between Christianity's leading doctrines and practical
              precepts, 231-252, 253.
  --between Christianity's leading doctrines amongst each other, 253.
  --between Christianity's practical precepts amongst each other,
    253-257.

Contact, necessary to produce any interest in our affections,
           73-78, 81.

Corruption of human nature, common notions of it, 14-16.
  --of human nature, Scripture account of it, 16, 26, 27.
  --of human nature, arguments suggested in proof of it, 16-26.
  --of Heathen world, and striking instance of it, 18, 19.
  --of savage life, 19, 20.
  --proof of it, furnished by the state of the Christian world, 20-24.
  --by the experience of the true Christian, 24, 25.
  --human, its general effects, when suffered to operate without
    restraint, 25, 26.
  --human, firm grounds on which it rests, 35.
  --human, practical uses of the doctrine, 36.

Cowper's Task, recommended, 234-352.
  --quoted, 251.

D.

Defective, conceptions generally prevailing concerning importance of
             Christianity, 1-5.
  --conceptions concerning human corruption, 15, 16.
  --conceptions concerning the evil spirit, 28.
  --conceptions concerning the doctrines, which respect our Saviour and
    the Holy Spirit, 70, 71, 45, 46, 48, 49, 50.
  --conceptions concerning the means of acceptance with God, 84-91.
  --conceptions prevailing concerning practical Christianity, 102-104,
    117-205.
  --conceptions of guilt and evil of sin, 206-210.
  --fear of God, 210.
  --sense of the difficulty of getting to heaven, 214, 215.
  --love of God in nominal Christians, 219-221.
  --love of God, proofs of it in nominal Christians, 221-224.
  --conceptions general, concerning peculiar doctrines of Christianity,
    231.
  --conceptions of peculiarities of Christianity, practical mischiefs
    from them, 232.

Depths, of the things of God; and our proneness to plunge into them,
          41-43.

Devotedness to God, duty of it, 107-110, 113, 116, 118.

Dissipated and indolent, class of, 121, 122.

Dissipation, seems to have prevailed in the antediluvian world, 213.

Doddridge's Sermons on Regeneration, referred to, note, 83.

Duelling, its guilt, &c. 159-161.

E.

Error, innocence of, considered, 10-12.

Establishment, religious, in England, how circumstanced, 267.

Estimation, desire of, universal, 146, 147.
  -- common language concerning it, the effects of the love of it, and
     the nature of the passion, 148-150.
  -- commendations of it questioned, 151.
  -- essential defects of inordinate love of it, explained, 152, 153.
  -- love of, Scripture lessons concerning, 152-156.
  -- value of, analogous to riches, 156.
  -- love of, common notions respecting it, 157, 158.
  -- proofs of our statements respecting it from House of Commons, 159.
  -- proofs of our statements respecting it from duelling, 159-161.
  -- real nature of inordinate love of it, 162, 163.
  -- true Christian's conduct respecting love of it, 164-173.
  -- true modes of guarding against excessive love of it, 171, 172.
  -- advice to the true Christian respecting love of it, 174-178.
  -- love of, best moderated by humility and charity, 176.
  -- true Christian's temper respecting it, 177.

Evil spirit, the existence and agency not contrary to reason, 28, 29.

External actions substituted for habits of mind, 134, 135.

F.

Faith, Christian's life, a life of, 137, 138.

Families, two, the righteous and the wicked, 212.

Ferguson, the historian, 290.

Fuller's Calvinism and Socinianism compared, 344.

Fundamental practical distinction between systems of nominal and real
              Christians, 237, 250, 251.

G.

General tone of morals, Christianity has raised it, 104.
  --established by consent in every country, 263, 264.

Geneva, the effect of theatres, 223.

Gloomy service, false charge that we make Christianity such, 327.

Glory, true and false, what properly so called, 153.
  --Mistakes concerning it, 153.

Good hearted young men, term misapplied, 310.

Good hearted young men, the title disproved, 315.

Gratitude, true signs of, 49.

H.

Habits, of mind forgotten in Religion, 134-146.

Heavenly mindedness, best promoted by being much conversant with
                       peculiar doctrines of Christianity, 250.

Holy Spirit, Scripture doctrine concerning, 44, 82, 83.
  --popular notions concerning, 50-53.

Honour, false notions respecting it, 162, 163.

Horne, Dr. quoted, 61.

Humility, best enforced by peculiar doctrines of Christianity,
            244, 245.
  --the ground of Christian graces, 146.
  --excellent practical effects of, 176.

I.

Ignorance of Christianity, common, 5, 6.
  --criminal, 6, 7.

Importance of Christianity, inadequate conceptions generally
                              entertained of it, 1-13.
  --of Christianity, proofs of the inadequate ideas generally
                     entertained of it, 2-5.
  --of Christianity, ideas of it given by the Holy Scriptures, 8-10.
  --of Christianity, best enforced by peculiar doctrines of
                     Christianity, 240.

Inconsistency of the world's practical system, 255, 256.

Indifference about Christianity generally prevalent, 9.
  --general towards our Saviour, proofs of, 46-48.

Infidelity, common progress of it, 338-342.
  --a disease of the heart more than of the understanding, 342.

Innocent young women, term how misapplied, 310.
  --young women, the title disproved, 315.

Intellectual attainments, rated below moral by Christianity, 257-260.
  --low degree of excellence within our reach, 258.

J.

Jones, Sir William, a champion for Christianity, 348.

K.

Kenyon, Lord Chief Justice, commendations of, 302.

L.

Language, common, concerning the importance of Christianity, 5.
  --concerning human corruption, 15.
  --concerning affections towards our Saviour, and Holy Spirit's
    operations, 51, 52.
  --concerning terms of acceptance with God, 85-87.
  --concerning mode of relaxing the strictness of Christian precept,
    132, 133.
  --concerning human judicatures, 133.
  --concerning amiable tempers and useful lives, 179.
  --common to people desirous of repenting, 235.

Learning, votaries of, 127.

Life, Christian, illustrated under figure of a traveller, 217-219.
  --Christian's, a life of faith, 137-140.

Liturgy, bad effects to be feared from its disuse, 297.

Lives, several mentioned, 336.

Love, true signs of it, 46, 47.
  --of God, its essential characters, 110.
  --of Christ, justly to be expected of us, 69, 70, 77, 78, 107, 108.
  --means of exciting it, 99, 100.
  --of God, defective in nominal Christians, 219, 220.
  --of God, proofs of its being defective, 220-224.
  --of fellow-creatures, nominal Christians defective in, 225.
  --of fellow-creatures, true marks of, 226-229.
  --of God, best enforced by Christianity's peculiarities, 242.
  --Christians to cultivate this grace above all others, 324.
  --its excellent effects in the true Christian, 325.
  --of fellow-creatures best enforced by peculiar doctrines, 243, 244.

Low standard of practice generally prevailing, 102, 103, 117-135.

Lower classes, not unfit that true doctrine of acceptance should be
                 stated to them, 93, 94.

M.

McLaurin, his essays and sermons referred to, 83, 97.

Maurice, Mr. a defender of Christianity, 348.

Maxims, which prove human corruption, 21.

Medium, religious, almost lost, 130.

Milton, quoted, 43.

Moral, attainments rated above intellectual, by Christianity, 257.
  --attainments, how much more we can excel in them than in
                 intellectual ones, 259.

Moravians, commendation of, 56.

N.

Natural condition of man without Christianity, 31-33.

Nature, essential, of true practical Christianity, 129.

Necessity, excuse on the plea of, stated, and answered, 36-42.
  --opponent on the ground of, how best opposed, 37, 38.

Nominal and real Christian, distinction between them most important,
                              306.

Novels, prove how peculiarities of Christianity have fallen into
          neglect, 277, 278.

O.

Objections against the religious affections towards Christ, and
             against the operations of the Holy Spirit, 50-53.
  --against human accountableness, discussed, 36-42.
  --against the religious affections towards Christ, and against the
    operations of the Holy Spirit, discussed, 53-83.

Outgrowing vices mistaken for forsaking them, 308, 318.

Owen, Dr. referred to, 275.

P.

Paley, Mr. his defence of Christianity noticed, 260, 281.

Partiality in the religious views of nominal Christians, 119-121.

Particular, Christians must not fear to be so when required by duty,
              167.

Pascal's thoughts referred to, 245.
  --thoughts recommended, 348.

Peculiar, doctrines, use, in promoting humility, 244, 245.
  --in promoting moderation in earthly pursuits, 246.
  --in promoting cheerfulness in suffering, 247.
  --in promoting confidence in danger, and patience in suffering,
    248, 249.
  --in promoting heavenly mindedness, 250.
  --doctrines, demand our utmost attention, 94-97.
  --doctrines, use of, 239.
  --doctrines, use of, in enforcing importance of Christianity, 240.
  --doctrines, use of, in enforcing entire surrender to God, 240.
  --doctrines, use of, in enforcing guilt of sin, and dread of
    punishment, 241.
  --in promoting love of God, 241, 242.
  --in promoting love of fellow-creatures, 243, 244.

Philosophy, epicurism and stoicism, 59.

Pitt, Mr. slander respecting him refuted--Note 272.

Pleasure, the true Christian finds in Religion, 139, 140.

Pleasures of true Religion, 325-332.

Policy, mistaken, of compromise with immorality, 301.

Polished state of society no security against progress of immorality,
           298, 299.

Political, good effects from the prevalence of Christianity, as above
             described, 283-295.
  --good effects from revival of vital Christianity, 296.
  --bad effects from its farther decline, 297, 298.
  --happiness of a Christian nation, 283-287.

Pomp and parade, votaries of, 124.

Poor the, more favourably circumstanced as to Religion, 93, 292.

Pope, the Poet, referred to, 246.

Popular notions concerning our Saviour and the Holy Spirit, 46-48.

Practical hints, on importance of Christianity, 13.
  --on human corruption, 35.
  --on mode of dealing with a certain description of infidels, 37, 38.
  --on the means of exciting our affections towards our Saviour,
    99, 100.
  --respecting love of estimation, 174-178.
  --respecting amiable tempers and useful lives, 192.
  --to naturally sweet tempered, 193.
  --to naturally rough and austere, 194-199.
  --to true Christian, when engaged in hurry of worldly affairs,
    199-204.
  --to persons desirous of repenting, 235.
  --respecting uses of peculiar doctrines of Christianity, 240-251.
  --for revival of Religion, 300-304.
  --to various descriptions, 305-318.
  --to such as, having been hitherto careless, wish to become true
    Christians, 318-332.
  --to some who profess their full assent to fundamental doctrines
    of Christianity, 333-336.
  --to Sceptics and Unitarians, 337-345.
  --to half-unbelievers, 346-348.
  --to true Christians, from state of times, 349-354.
  --Christianity, chapter on, 100-251.
  --prevailing low views of it, 102-104.
  --Christianity, its real strictness, 105, 106.
  --its true nature, 107-110.
  --charged on all without exception in its full strictness, 111-115.
  --mischiefs of neglect of peculiarities of Christianity, 232.
  --distinction, fundamental, between systems of nominal and real
    Christians, 231-234.
  --precepts of Christianity, most excellent, 260.
  --use of peculiar doctrines of Christianity, 238.

Prevailing, low views of practical Christianity, proofs of them, 104.
  --inadequate sense of peculiar doctrines of Christians, 231, &c.

Probation, notion of, disproves prevailing system of Religion, 317.

Proof of Christianity's divine origin, 260-262.

Puritans, many of their writings commended, 275.

R.

Religion, practical hints for its revival, 300-305.
  -- the only true support in trouble and peril, 332.

Repentance, advice for such as are disposed to, 318-324.

Reputation, true Christian's conduct respecting it, 164-178.
  -- true Christian preserves, without over-valuing it, 167-170.

Richardson, mentioned, 278.

Robertson, Dr. censured, 279.

Rousseau, school of, 204, 205.

S.

Scepticism, natural history of it, 338-340.

Sceptics and Unitarians, advantage they have in attacking
                           Christianity, 344, 345.

Scripture doctrine, importance of, to Christianity, 8-10.
  -- doctrine, concerning human corruption, 14-27.
  -- doctrine, concerning Christ and the Holy Spirit, 43, 44.

Self-deception, frequent sources of, 306-318.
  -- another common kind, 333-335.

Self-examination, helps in, 306.

Selfishness of common practical Religion, 121-127.
  -- the disease of political societies, 288.
  -- peculiarly counteracted by Christianity, 291, 292.

Sensibility, exquisite, how little truly valuable, and how different
               from true practical benevolence, 204, 205.

Sensualists class of, 123.

Sin, how spoken of in Scripture, 211.
  -- defective conceptions of, 207.

Sincerity, false notion of it, 10-12.
  -- true what, 13.

Sins, no little ones, 210, 211.
  -- little, what accounted such, 208.

Smith, Dr. Adam, 76. 188, 189. 279.

Soame Jenyns, his View of the Internal Evidence of Christianity
                referred to, 6. 281.

Sophistry, with which Religion is explained away, 133.

Stage the, proof from its being frequented by nominal Christians of
             their defective love of God, 221-224. 230, 231.
  -- proof from, illustrated by political analogy, 223.

Statutes, Religion made a set of, 131, 132.

Sterne strongly censured, 206.

Strictness of true practical Christianity, 105, 106.
  -- of our system, objected to, as not suited to the state of the
     world, 280, 281.
  -- the charge refuted, 281, 282.

Sunday, hints for its employment, 141, 142.
  -- common modes of unhallowing it, 143-145.

Supreme regard to be set on God, 60. 112-129.

Swift's Tale of a Tub, quoted, 132, 133.

T.

Taste, votaries of, 127.

Tempers, Christian, not cultivated, 136-146.
  -- respecting human estimation, 165-168.
  -- respecting calumny and disgrace, 170.
  -- when too much immersed in worldly business, 201-204.

Theatres, Parisian, 223.

Theatrical entertainments prove defective love of God, 222.

Theatrical entertainments prove defective love of our neighbour,
             230, 231.
  -- entertainments, illustrated by political analogy, 223.

U.

Unbelievers, half; a class of them, 346.

Uncharitableness, what falsely so called, 312.

Unitarianism often results from same causes as absolute scepticism,
               343.

Useful lives, discussion concerning, 178.
  -- substituted for Religion, 179.
  -- value of, estimated by standard of mere reason, 185.
  -- real worth of, on Christian principles, 186-188.
  -- life, the Christian's life the most so, 191.
  -- Christians urged to, 192.
  -- its just praise given to, 197.
  -- apt to mislead us, 198.

V.

Vice, some one always excused, 308-310.

Vices, outgrowing or changing them, mistaken for forsaking all sin,
         308-310.

Vulgarity in Religion, as to language, to be expected from vulgar
            men, 56.

W.

Wealth, votaries of, 125, 126.

Women, more disposed than men to Religion, and uses to be made of
         this, 313.
  -- exalted office assigned to them, 314.

Witherspoon, 275.

Y.

Youth, simplicity of, mistaken for Religion, 313.

FOOTNOTES

[Footnote 1: It is almost superfluous to name Mr. SOAME JENYNS.]

[Footnote 2: Exempla duo, quæ pravitatis humanæ vim animo meo luculenter exhibent, non proferre
non possum. Alterum decens ille Virgilius, alterum Cicero, probus idem verique studiosus, suppeditat.
Virgilius, innocuam certe pastorum vitam depicturus, ita incipit.

    "Formosum pastor Corydon ardebat Alexim."

Cicero in libro de Officiis primo, ubi de actionibus prout inter se apte & convenientes sint,
loci, temporis, & agentis ratione habita, disserit, argumentum sic illustrat: "Turpe est enim,
valdeque vitiosum, in re severa, convivio dignum, aut delicatum aliquem inferre sermonem. Bene
Pericles, quum haberet collegam in prætura Sophoclem poetam, hique de communi officio convenissent,
& casu formosus puer præteriret, dixissetque Sophocles, O pueram pulchrum Pericle! At enim,
inquit Pericles, prætorem Sophoclem decet non solum manus, sed etiam oculus abstinentes habere.
Atqui hoc idem Sophocles, si in athletarum probatione dixisset, justa reprehensione caruisset,
tanta vis est, & loci & temporis."

Quomodo sese res habuisse necesse est, cum vir antiquorum prestantissimis adscribendus, philosophiam,
immo mores & officia tractans, talia doceret! Qualem sibi ipse virtutis normam proposuerat,
satis liquet. Vide inter alia, justa reprehensione, &c. &c; & tanta vis est, &c. &c.]

[Footnote 3: Robertson, Vol. II. p. 130.]

[Footnote 4: Robertson, Book IV. Sect. 2. Head, Condition of Women, vol. ii. 8vo. 90, 91.]

[Footnote 5: Job xv. 14.]

[Footnote 6: Job xv. 16.]

[Footnote 7: Psalm xiv. 2, 3.]

[Footnote 8: Prov. xx. 9.]

[Footnote 9: Psalm cxxxix. 3.]

[Footnote 10: I Chron. xxviii. 9.]

[Footnote 11: Prov. i. 24, 25, 26, 27, 28, 29.]

[Footnote 12: Vide Butler's Analogy.]

[Footnote 13: Heb. x. 27.]

[Footnote 14: Philippians, ii. 12.]

[Footnote 15: John, v. 29.]

[Footnote 16: James, i. 13.]

[Footnote 17: 2 Peter, iii. 9.]

[Footnote 18: Ezek. xviii. 23.]

[Footnote 19: Ezek. xviii. 32.]

[Footnote 20: Psalm cxlvii. 5.]

[Footnote 21: Rom. xi. 33.]

[Footnote 22: Psalm xcvii. 2.]

[Footnote 23: Deut. xxix. 29.]

[Footnote 24: Matt. xi. 28]

[Footnote 25: This was the motto on their banner.]

[Footnote 26: Title of Attila king of the Huns, whose desolating ravages are well known.]

[Footnote 27: Vide the testimony of West India merchants to the Moravians, in the Report of
the Privy Council on the Slave Trade.]

[Footnote 28: Rom. xii. 1.]

[Footnote 29: Dr. HORNE.]

[Footnote 30: 2 Cor. viii. 12.]

[Footnote 31: Isaiah, liii. 2.]

[Footnote 32: Philip. ii. 6, 7, 8.]

[Footnote 33: Luke, ii. 10, 11.]

[Footnote 34: Col. i. 12, 13.]

[Footnote 35: Ephes. i. 18.]

[Footnote 36: Col. i. 27.]

[Footnote 37: Heb. xiii. 8.]

[Footnote 38: 1 John, iv. 20.]

[Footnote 39: Dr. ADAM SMITH. Vide Theory of Moral Sentiments.]

[Footnote 40: 1 Pet. i. 8.]

[Footnote 41: Heb. iv. 15.]

[Footnote 42: Isaiah, xl. 11.]

[Footnote 43: Isaiah, xlix. 10.]

[Footnote 44: The word Comfortless is rendered in the margin Orphans.]

[Footnote 45: John, xiv. 18.]

[Footnote 46: 1 Cor. xiii. 12.]

[Footnote 47: Eph. ii. 1. 5.]

[Footnote 48: Col. i. 13.]

[Footnote 49: Ephes. ii. 10.]

[Footnote 50: 2 Cor. vi. 16.]

[Footnote 51: Col. iii. 9, 10.]

[Footnote 52: Ephes. ii. 22.]

[Footnote 53: Vide DR. DODDRIDGE's eight Sermons on Regeneration, a most valuable compilation;
and McLAURIN's Essay on Divine Grace.]

[Footnote 54: Rom. iv. 5.]

[Footnote 55: Ibid. v. 6-8.]

[Footnote 56: The Writer trusts he cannot be misunderstood to mean that any, continuing sinners
and ungodly, can, by believing, be accepted or finally saved. The following chapter, particularly
the latter part of it, (Section vi.) would abundantly vindicate him from any such misconstruction.
Meanwhile, he will only remark, that true faith (in which repentance is considered as involved)
is in Scripture regarded as the radical principle of holiness. If the root exist, the proper
fruits will be brought forth. An attention to this consideration would have easily explained
and reconciled those passages of St. Paul's and St. James's Epistles, which have furnished
so much matter of argument and criticism. St. James, it may be observed, all along speaks of
a man, not who has faith, but who says that he has faith. Vide James ii. 14. &c. &c.]

[Footnote 57: Vide Note Ch. iv. Sect. vi.]

[Footnote 58: Gal. vi. 14.]

[Footnote 59: I Cor. i. 30.]

[Footnote 60: Rev. i. 5.]

[Footnote 61: John, vi. 29.]

[Footnote 62: 1 John, iii. 23.]

[Footnote 63: Nec Deus intersit, &c.]

[Footnote 64: Vide Heb. ii. 1, &c.]

[Footnote 65: Any one who wishes to investigate this subject will do well to study attentively
McLAURIN's Essay on Prejudices against the Gospel.--It may not be amiss here to direct the
reader's attention to a few leading arguments, many of them those of the work just recommended.
Let him maturely estimate the force of those terms, whereby the Apostle in the following passages
designates and characterizes the whole of the Christian system. The value of this argument
will be acknowledged by all who consider, that a system is never designated by an immaterial
or an inferior part of it, but by that which constitutes its prime consideration and essential
distinction. The conclusion suggested by this remark is confirmed by the Lord's Supper being
the rite by which our Saviour himself commanded his Disciples to keep him in remembrance; and
indeed a similar lesson is taught by the Sacrament of Baptism, which shadows out our souls
being washed and purified by the blood of Christ. Observe next the frequency with which our
Saviour's death and sufferings are introduced, and how often they are urged as practical motives.

"The minds of the Apostles seem full of this subject. Every thing put them in mind of it; they
did not allow themselves to have it long out of their view, nor did any other branch of spiritual
instruction make them lose sight of it." Consider next that part of the Epistle to the Romans,
wherein St. Paul speaks of some who went about to establish their own righteousness, and had
not submitted themselves to the righteousness of God. May not this charge be in some degree
urged, and even more strongly than in the case of the Jews, against those who satisfy themselves
with vague, general, occasional thoughts of our Saviour's mediation; and the source of whose
habitual complacency, as we explained above, is rather their being tolerably well satisfied
with their own characters and conduct? Yet St. Paul declares concerning those of whom he speaks,
as concerning persons whose sad situation could not be too much lamented, that he had great
heaviness and continual sorrow in his heart, adding still more emphatical expressions of deep
and bitter regret.

Let the Epistle to the Galatians be also carefully examined and considered; and let it be fairly
asked, what was the particular in which the Judaizing Christians were defective, and the want
of which is spoken of in such strong terms as these; that it frustrates the grace of God, and
must debar from all the benefits of the death of Jesus? The Judaizing converts were not immoral.
They seem to have admitted the chief tenets concerning our Saviour. But they appear to have
been disposed to trust (not wholly, be it observed also, but only in part) for their acceptance
with God, to the Mosaic institutions, instead of reposing wholly on the merits of Christ. Here
let it be remembered, that when a compliance with these institutions was not regarded as conveying
this inference, the Apostle shewed by his own conduct, that he did not deem it criminal; whence,
no less than from the words of the Epistle, it is clear that the offence of the Judaizing Christians
whom he condemned, was what we have stated; not their obstinately continuing to adhere to a
dispensation the ceremonial of which Christianity had abrogated, or their trusting to the sacrifices
of the Levitical Law, which were in their own nature inefficacious for the blotting out of
sin.-- Vide Heb. vii. viii. ix. x.]

[Footnote 66: Rev. v. 12.]

[Footnote 67: ib. 13.]

[Footnote 68: 2 Cor. xiii. 14.]

[Footnote 69: 1 John, iii. 17.--Rom. xvi. 18.--Compared with Philippians, iii. 19.]

[Footnote 70: 2 Tim. iii. 4.]

[Footnote 71: Matt. x. 37.]

[Footnote 72: Jerem. ix. 23.]

[Footnote 73: It will be remembered by the reader, that it is not the object of this work to
animadvert on the vices, defects, and erroneous opinions of the times, except so far as they
are received into the prevailing religious system, or are tolerated by it, and are not thought
sufficient to prevent a man from being esteemed on the whole a very tolerable Christian.]

[Footnote 74: Vide Tale of a Tub.]

[Footnote 75: Vide Tale of a Tub.]

[Footnote 76: Isaiah, ii. 11.]

[Footnote 77: Vide Hey's Tract, Rousseau's Eloisa, and many periodical Essays and Sermons.]

[Footnote 78: Vide "Whosoever looketh on a woman to lust after her, hath committed adultery
with her, &c." Matt. v. 28.]

[Footnote 79: The writer cannot omit this opportunity of declaring, that he should long ago
have brought this subject before the notice of Parliament, but for a perfect conviction that
he should probably thereby only give encouragement to a system he wishes to see at an end.
The practice has been at different periods nearly stopped by positive laws, in various nations
on the Continent; and there can be little doubt of the efficacy of what has been more than
once suggested--a Court of Honour; to take cognizance of such offences as would naturally fall
within its province. The effects of this establishment would doubtless require to be enforced
by legislative provisions, directly punishing the practice; and by discouraging at court, and
in the military and naval situations, all who should directly or indirectly be guilty of it.]

[Footnote 80: Vide, in particular a paper in the Guardian, by ADDISON, on Honour, Vol. ii.]

[Footnote 81: Vide SMITH'S Theory of Moral Sentiments.]

[Footnote 82: The writer hopes that the work to which he is referring is so well known, that
he needs scarcely name Mrs. H. More.]

[Footnote 83: See SMITH'S Theory of Moral Sentiments.]

[Footnote 84: While all are worthy of blame, who, to qualities like these, have assigned a
more exalted place than to religious and moral principle; there is one writer who, eminently
culpable in this respect, deserves, on another account, still severer reprehension. Really
possessed of powers to explore and touch the finest strings of the human heart, and bound by
his sacred profession to devote those powers to the service of religion and virtue, he every
where discovers a studious solicitude to excite indecent ideas. We turn away our eyes with
disgust from open immodesty: but even this is less mischievous than that more measured style,
which excites impure images, without shocking us by the grossnesses of the language. Never
was delicate sensibility proved to be more distinct from plain practical benevolence, than
in the writings of the author to whom I allude. Instead of employing his talents for the benefit
of his fellow-creatures, they were applied to the pernicious purposes of corrupting the national
taste, and of lowering the standard of manners and morals. The tendency of his writings is
to vitiate that purity of mind, intended by Providence as the companion and preservative of
youthful virtue; and to produce, if the expression may be permitted, a morbid sensibility in
the perception of indecency. An imagination exercised in this discipline is never clean, but
seeks for and discovers something indelicate in the most common phrases and actions of ordinary
life. If the general style of writing and conversation were to be formed on that model, to
which Sterne used his utmost endeavours to conciliate the minds of men, there is no estimating
the effects which would soon be produced on the manners and morals of the age.]

[Footnote 85: Vide SMITH on the Wealth of Nations, Vol. iii.]

[Footnote 86: Vide the Grammarians and Dialecticians on the Diminutives of the Italian and
other languages.]

[Footnote 87: Many more might be added, such as a good fellow, a good companion, a libertine,
a little free, a little loose in talk, wild, gay, jovial, being no man's enemy but his own,
&c. &c. &c. &c; above all, having a good heart.]

[Footnote 88: Gal. v. 19-21. Col. iii. 10, 11.]

[Footnote 91: Col. i. 13.]

[Footnote 92: It is almost unnecessary to remark, that the word is to be understood in a large
sense, as including the Opera, &c.]

[Footnote 93: Geneva--It is worthy of remark, that the play houses have multiplied extremely
in Paris since the revolution; and that last winter there were twenty open every night, and
all crowded. It should not be left unobserved, and it is seriously submitted to the consideration
of those who regard the stage as a school of morals, that the pieces which were best composed,
best acted, and most warmly and generally applauded, were such as abounded in touches of delicate
sensibility. The people of Paris have never been imagined to be more susceptible, than the
generality of mankind, of these emotions, and this is not the particular period when the Parisians
have been commonly conceived most under their influence. Vide Journal d'un Voyageur Neutre.
The author of the work expresses himself as astonished by the phænomenon, and as unable to
account for it.]

[Footnote 94: The author is almost afraid of using the terms, lest they should convey an impression
of party feelings, of which he wishes this book to exhibit no traces; but he here means by
Democrats and Jacobins, not persons on whom party violence fastens the epithet, but persons
who are really and avowedly such.]

[Footnote 95: LORD BACON.]

[Footnote 96: If any one would read a description of this process, enlivened and enforced by
the powers of the most exquisite poetry, let him peruse the middle and latter part of the fifth
Book of COWPER'S Task. My warm attachment to the exquisitely natural compositions of this truly
Christian poet may perhaps bias my judgment; but the part of the work to which I refer appears
to me scarcely surpassed by any thing in our language. The honourable epithet of Christian
may justly be assigned to a poet, whose writings, while they fascinate the reader by their
manifestly coming from the heart, breathe throughout the spirit of that character of Christianity,
with which she was announced to the world; "Glory to God, peace on earth, good will towards men."]

[Footnote 97: Here again let it be remarked, that faith, where genuine, always supposes repentance,
abhorrence of sin, &c.]

[Footnote 98: Heb. xii. 1, 2.]

[Footnote 99: It has been well remarked that the word used, where it is said, that God "was
PLEASED to bruise" and put to grief his only Son for us, is the same word as that wherein it
was declared by a voice from Heaven, "This is my beloved Son, in whom I am well pleased."]

[Footnote 100: Vide Chap. iii. Where these were shewn to be the elementary principles of the
passion of love.]

[Footnote 101: Rom. v. 9. 10.]

[Footnote 102: John xiii. 13-17. If I then, your Lord and Master, have washed your feet; ye
also ought to wash one another's feet, &c.]

[Footnote 103: Vide Pascal's Thoughts on Religion--A book abounding in the deepest views of
practical Christianity.]

[Footnote 104: Pope.]

[Footnote 105: The Hell, so called, be it observed, not by way of reproach, but familiarity,
by those who frequent it.]

[Footnote 106: Eph. ii.]

[Footnote 107: The Rev. Matthew Babington of Temple Rothley, in Leicestershire, who died lately
at Lisbon.]

[Footnote 108: The author must acknowledge himself indebted to Dr. OWEN for this illustration.]

[Footnote 109: The author here alludes to what happened within his own knowledge; and he has
been assured by others, on whose testimony he can rely, of several similar instances. But to
prevent misconstruction as to the incident which mainly gives rise to the remark, he thinks
it necessary to declare, that the account, which appeared in some of the news-papers, of an
entertainment having been given by Mr. Pitt on the Fast Day, is untrue; and he is glad of the
opportunity, which the mention of this subject affords him, of contradicting a statement which
he can positively affirm to have been false. This is one of the many instances which should
enforce on the readers of news-papers, the duty of not hastily giving credit to reports to
the disadvantage of any man, of any party. A person in a public station must often acquiesce
under the grossest calumnies; unless he will undertake the vain and endless task of contradicting
all the falsehoods which prejudice may conceive, and malignity propagate against him.--The
writer may perhaps express himself with the more feeling on this subject; because he has often
been, and, indeed, at this very moment is, in the circumstances which he has stated.]

[Footnote 110: I must beg leave to class among the brightest ornaments of the Church of England,
this great man, who with his brethren was so shamefully ejected from the church in 1666, in
violation of the royal word, as well as of the clear principles of justice. With his controversial
pieces I am little acquainted: but his practical writings, in four massy folios, are a treasury
of Christian wisdom; and it would be a most valuable service to mankind to revise them, and
perhaps to abridge them, so as to render them more suited to the taste of modern readers. This
has been already done in the case of his Dying Thoughts, a beautiful little piece, and of his
Saints' Rest. His Life also, written by himself, and in a separate volume, contains much useful
matter, and many valuable particulars of the history of the times of Charles I. Cromwell, &c. &c.]

[Footnote 111: Let me by no means be understood to censure all the sectaries without discrimination.
Many of them, and some who by the unhappy circumstances of the times became objects of notice
in a political view, were men of great erudition, deep views of Religion, and unquestionable
piety: and though the writings of the puritans are prolix; and according to the fashion of
their age, rendered rather perplexed than clear by multiplied divisions and subdivisions; yet
they are a mine of wealth, in which any one who will submit to some degree of labour will find
himself well rewarded for his pains. In particular the writings of Dr. OWEN, Mr. HOWE, and
Mr. FLAVELL, well deserve this character: of the first mentioned author, there are two pieces
which I would especially recommend to the reader's perusal, one, on Heavenly Mindedness, abridged
by Dr. MAYO; the other, on the Mortification of Sin in Believers. While I have been speaking
in terms of such high, and, I trust, such just eulogium of many of the teachers of the Church
of England; this may not be an improper place to express the high obligations which we owe
to the Dissenters, for many excellent publications. Of this number are Dr. EVANS'S Sermons
on the Christian Temper; and that most useful book, the Rise and Progress of Religion in the
Soul, by Dr. DODDRIDGE; also, his Life, by ORTON, and Letters; and two volumes of Sermons,
one on Regeneration, the other on the Power and Grace of Christ: May the writer be permitted
to embrace this opportunity of recommending two volumes, published separately, of Sermons,
by the late Dr. WITHERSPOON, President of the College of New Jersey.]

[Footnote 112: Vide Section vi. of the ivth Chapter, where we have expressly and fully treated
of this most important truth.]

[Footnote 113: No exceptions have fallen within my own reading, but the writings of RICHARDSON.]

[Footnote 114: It is with pain that the author finds himself compelled to place so great a
writer as Dr. ROBERTSON in this class. But, to say nothing of his phlegmatic account of the
reformation; a subject which we should have thought likely to excite in any one, who united
the character of a Christian Divine with that of an Historian, some warmth of pious gratitude
for the good providence of God; to pass over also the ambiguity, in which he leaves his readers
as to his opinion of the authenticity of the Mosaic chronology, in his disquisitions on the
trade of India; his letters to Mr. GIBBON, lately published, cannot but excite emotions of
regret and shame in every sincere Christian. The author hopes, that he has so far explained
his sentiments as to render it almost unnecessary to remark, what, however, to prevent misconstruction,
he must here declare, that so far from approving, he must be understood decidedly to condemn,
a hot, a contentious, much more an abusive manner of opposing or of speaking of the assailants
of Christianity. The Apostle's direction in this respect cannot be too much attended to. (2
Timothy, ii. 24, 25.)]

[Footnote 115: Mr. HUME.]

[Footnote 116: Vide Dr. A. Smith's Letter to W. Strahan, Esq.]

[Footnote 117: What is here stated must be acknowledged by all, be their political opinions
concerning French events what they may; and it makes no difference in the writer's view of
the subject, whether the state of morals was or was not, quite, or nearly, as bad, before the
French revolution.]

[Footnote 118: SOAME JENYNS.]

[Footnote 119: PALEY'S Evidence.]

[Footnote 120: See especially that great historian, FERGUSON, who, in his Essay on Civil Society,
endeavours to vindicate the cause of heroism from the censure conveyed by the poet:

    "From Macedonia's madman to the Swede."

]

[Footnote 121: Such seems to be the just rendering of the word which our Testament translates,
"did not like to retain God in their knowledge."]

[Footnote 122: It is a gratification to the writer's personal, as well as public feelings,
to pay this tribute of respect to the character of Lord Chief Justice KENYON.]

[Footnote 123: This is not thrown out rashly, but asserted on the writer's own knowledge.]

[Footnote 124: "Neither will I offer burnt offerings unto the Lord my God," (says David) "of
that which doth cost me nothing." 2 Sam. xxiv. 24. Acts v. 41. See also 1 Thess. i. 6.  Heb.
x. 34.  James i. 2. 1 Peter iv. 13, 14.

Such are the marks exhibited in Scripture of a true love to God: and though our regard for
our common Lord is not put to the same severe test, as that of the Apostles and first Christians
was; yet, if the same principle existed in us also, it would surely dispose us to act in the
spirit of that conduct; and prompt us rather to be willing to exceed in self denials and labours
for Christ's sake, than to be so forward as we are to complain, whenever we are called upon
to perform or to abstain from any thing, though in an instance ever so little contrary to our
inclinations.]

[Footnote 125: It may not be amiss to mention a few useful publications of this sort. Walton's
Lives, particularly the last edition by Mr. Zouch; Gilpin's Lives; the Lives of Bishop Bedell
and Bishop Bull; of Archbishop Usher; some extracts from Burnet of the Life of the incomparable
Leighton, prefixed to a volume of the latter's Sermons; Passages of the Life of Lord Rochester,
by Burnet; the Life of Sir Matthew Hale; of the excellent Doddridge, by Orton; of Henry, father
and son; of Mather; of Halyburton; Hampson's and Whitehead's Life of Wesley; Life of Baxter,
by himself, &c. &c. &c.]

[Footnote 126: The author is aware, that he may perhaps be censured for conceding this term
to the class of persons now in question, since orthodox Christians equally contend for the
unity of the Divine Nature: and it perhaps may hardly be a sufficient excuse, that, it not
being his object particularly to refute the errors of Unitarianism, he uses the term in its
popular sense rather than give needless offence. He thus guards, however, against any false
construction being drawn from his use of it.]

[Footnote 127: The author of this treatise has, since its completion, perused a work entitled,
Calvinism and Socinianism compared, by A. FULLER, &c; and, without reference to the peculiarities
of Calvinism, he is happy to embrace this opportunity of confessing the high obligation which,
in common with all the friends of true Religion, he owes to the author of that highly valuable
publication for his masterly defence of the doctrines of Christianity, and his acute refutation
of the opposite errors.]

[Footnote 128: It is almost superfluous to state, that Sir WILLIAM JONES is here meant, who,
from the testimony borne to his extraordinary talents by Sir John Shore, in his first address
to the Asiatic Society of Calcutta, appears to have been a man of most extraordinary genius
and astonishing erudition.]

[Footnote 129: Mr. MAURICE.]

[Footnote 130: This argument is pressed with uncommon force in PASCAL'S Thoughts on Religion,
a work highly valuable, though not in every part to be approved; abounding in particular with
those deep views of Religion, which the name of its author prepares us to expect.]

[Footnote 131: Vide, some exquisitely beautiful lines in the last book of Cowper's Task, wherein
this sentiment is introduced.]

       *       *       *       *       *

Page numbers refer to the original text. Footnote numbers refer to this transcribed version.

p54: Repeated "a" has been removed.

p83: Comma has been changed to full stop after "Almighty power".

p95: Nested double quotes have been changed to single quotes.

p106: Omitted word "in" has been added to "as it is Heaven".

p350: "the only can feel it" has been changed to "they only can feel it".

Fn 65: The footnote at the end of this footnote has been placed inline.

Fn 131: "Some" has been changed to "some".

Index-Affections, religious: - Repeated word "of" has been removed.

Index section "V" preceded "U" in the original. This has been corrected.

All footnotes have been moved to the end of the text and numbered sequentially.

Some words were spelt, hyphenated, or had apostrophes placed, inconsistently within the text.
These have been silently corrected to match the form most frequently used in the text.

Where scanned text was unclear, the 1834 edition has been consulted.

Unless due to a clear typographic error, consistent differences from modern usage have been
retained, such as spellings (e.g. prophane), hyphenation (e.g. to-day), and punctuation (e.g.
omission of commas following full stops in lists and the Index).