I laughed most consumedly at some of her articles, but on looking them over again--(she has
kept the lot, pasted in a book--a monument to my fatuity!)--I don't think so much of them now
I know she wrote them, and see that I could have made numberless valuable suggestions had she
only seen fit to consult me! Of course I could stop any further contribution on her part, but
consideration for your readers (?) prevents that--to say nothing of her determination to continue--so
I have therefore consented to her odd whim, on the condition that in future I "edit" her contributions;--I
need hardly assure you that I shall confine my "editing" strictly to these limits, and that
your own Editor need be under no apprehension as to my usurping his place,--ably as I should,
no doubt, fill it!

My Wife begs me to follow her example, and conclude with a verse--(I don't know where she picked
up such a bad habit)--but--while bowing to her wishes--(I am always polite)--to a certain extent,
I absolutely decline to make the verse other than blank!

  Believe me, Yours obediently,
    CHARLES POMPERSON (Bart.).

JOURNALISTIC SELECTION.

  I must confess that if compelled
    To write for any Journal,
  I should prefer as a matter of choice
    To write for Punch!

[On a slip of paper found in Sir CHARLES's envelope, we have the following from our valued
contributress--[ED.]:--"DEAR MR. PUNCH,--I am too upset to write--you shall hear from me next
week. Tours as devotedly as ever,--LADY GAY."]

       *       *       *       *       *

ANECDOTAGE.--Mr. Punch one day was reading aloud from a book of anecdotes when Mr. WEEDON GROSSMITH
was present. "What rot!" observed the representative of Lord Arthur Pomeroy. And Mr. Punch
agreed with him.

  Sit close to your friend, for a frightful end
    Is at hand for the miser Jew!
  Sit tight to your seat while the pulses beat--
    Nestle close to your neighbour, do!
      For he'll perish, alas!
      From a property glass
    Filled with nothing whatever--neat!

  He's there by himself, counting piles of pelf
    Of a counterfeit gamboge hue.
  He's wizened and dried like old Arthur Gride,
    That the novelist DICKENS drew.
      In the midst of his heaps,
      He conveniently sleeps
    With his glass at his right-hand side!

  Keep watch on the door while he snores his snore--
    See it open a foot or two!
  Oh! well is it planned! for the wobbling hand
    Of the villain, with bottle blue,
      Knows at once where to pass
      To the property glass
    Of the melodramatic brand!

  The murderer goes; the Jew's eyes unclose,
    And they look for his liquor true!
  Sit tight while the treat is at fever heat;
    For I saw by that bottle blue,
    And I knew by its label too,
      That the stuff it contained,
      If by anyone drained,
    Must prove fatal if taken neat!

  The poison he lifts, and the lot he shifts!
    Oh! unfortunate miser Jew!
  What use is your gold, now your time is told,
    And your moments in life are few?
      You may writhe where you sit
      Like an eel in a fit,
    But you'll die like the Jews of old!
      You may struggle a lot,
      And get awfully hot,
    But you'll have to lie stiff and cold!
      You may wriggle no end,
      But you're a dead 'un, my friend--
    Till the Curtain is quite unrolled!