"I beg your pardon," rejoined the theatrical gentleman; "but till I can forget the blunderbuss
fired from the upsetting coach, the cobweb over the poor's-box, and the gay parson and undertaker
at the harlot's funeral, I cannot allow of the comparison. Besides, I admire Hogarth for another
reason: did he consider an engraver's to be an infradig. profession? No, for he was the engraver
of his own works."

"True," replied Vivid; "and other painters have been engravers. But to the point: look at the
variety of the exquisite engravings in the Annuals; and having compared them with the large,
coarse, mindless pictures in--what may be called another annual--the Exhibition of the Royal
Academy, then say, whether you do not prefer the distinct delicate touches of a well-directed
burin, to the broad, trowel-like splashings of an ill-directed painting-brush?"

"I do; and whilst I bow down to the excellence of such a portrait as that of Charles the First,
by Vandyke, or that of Robin Goodfellow, by Sir Joshua, cum multis aliis by painters of the
same pre-eminent description--ay, and also whilst I greatly admire numerous pictures still
annually exhibited by highly talented living artists, I ask, if I am not to speak my mind relative
to that class of painting, which might pass muster outside the inns at Dartford, or Hounslow,
or ----. However, 'the lion preys not upon carcasses,' and, therefore, I will leave these canvass-spoilers
to the judgment of those, who will show them in their proper light--viz. the hanging-committee."

The funeral being concluded, they return to town, Vivid agreeing with his odd companion in
leaving the canvass-spoilers to the hanging committee.

Is it not to be hoped that a day may come when a thorough revision and amelioration of our
equity laws will be deemed a matter of as great national importance as that chief occupier
of the time of our grand rural Capulets and Montagues, the revision and amelioration of the
game laws.

       *       *       *       *       *

TRIAL BY BATTLE.

"Ay, leave lawyers to wrangle amongst each other--a practice which of late years has become
so much a legal fashion, that some of our Westminster Hall heroes, forgetting their clients'
quarrels in their own, suddenly convert themselves into a new plaintiff and defendant, and
brawl forth such home coarse vituperations----"

"True;--formerly they used to brow-beat witnesses, now they brow-beat one another, and so defyingly,
that ere long, who knows but the four courts may resemble, as punsters would say, the five courts?"

       *       *       *       *       *

KICKING THE WORLD.

Every one has heard of kicking the world before them, though, comparatively, so few succeed
in the task. The wights in the cut are in an enviable condition.

       *       *       *       *       *

A sketch of one of those inveterate story tellers which are the standing dishes of a table
d'hôte, introduces one of the best of the cuts, Mr. Blase Bronzely, loquitur:

"Well, gentlemen, as I was saying, when I saw at Stratford-upon-Avon the Shakspearean procession
pass in the street, it rained so violently that Caliban and Hamlet's Ghost carried umbrellas,
whilst Ophelia----"

"Obvious, my dear Blase; or, as a late premier used to say, 'It can't be missed,' 'Too much
of water hast thou, poor Ophelia:' and, besides, your wet ghost is a mere crib from yourself;
for whenever you go hunting in cloudy weather, don't you regularly ride with a smart silver
parasol over your dear little head?"

       *       *       *       *       *

Soon growing tired of lounging in the library, loitering on the pier, and of all the rest of
the usual dull sea-side routine, he literally knew so little what to do with himself, that,
to kill an hour or two before dinner, he would frequently be seen seated on a tombstone in
the churchyard, yawning; staring at the church clock, and comparing it with his own watch;--in
short, in some degree resembling

  "Patience on a monument."

       *       *       *       *       *

The reader will conclude by these specimens that fun and frolic are the characteristics of
the Dramatic Annual; and we have given him a spice of its best humour. These Cuts, by the way,
are in a style which all illustrators would do well to cultivate. We have seen much labour
expended on illustrations of works of humour, such as fine etchy work, and points wrought up
with extreme delicacy. The effect, however, is any but humorous: you think of painstaking and
trouble, whereas a few lines vividly dashed off, by their unstudied style, will ensure a laugh,
where more elaborate productions only remind us of effort. Hood's pen-and-ink cuts are excellent
in their way--as bits of fun, but not of art. Now, Brooke's designs are both works of fun and art.

       *       *       *       *       *

THE FAMILY CABINET ATLAS

Is completed with the Twelfth Part, in the same style of excellence as it was commenced. In
this portion are two plates, exhibiting a comparative view of Inland Seas and Principal Lakes
of the Eastern and Western Hemispheres--which alone are worth the price of the Part. Altogether,
the uniformity and elegance of this work reflect high credit on the taste and talent of every
one concerned in its production; and it really deserves a place on every writing-table not
already provided with an Atlas. For constant reference, too, it is well calculated, by its
convenient size, and is preferable to the cumbrous folio, as well as the varnished, rustling,
roller map.

       *       *       *       *       *

THE KING'S SECRET.

Hundreds of persons have probably been disappointed by this work--an historical novel, of the
time of Edward the Third, by Mr. Power, of Covent Garden Theatre. Scandal-loving people are
so fond of concatenation, or stringing circumstances, causes, and effects together, that in
the present case they made up their minds to some secret of our times: some boudoir story of
Windsor or St. James's, which might show how royalty loves. On the contrary, "the secret" does
not come out;--the reader is only tickled, his curiosity excited, and the tale, like an ill-going
clock, is wound up without striking.

We attempt something like an outline of the plot, although it is just to induce Our reader
to turn to the work itself, for we foretel he will be pleased with its details. Artevelde,
a beer brewster of Ghent, intrigues with Edward to transfer the coronet of Flanders from Count
Lewis to the young Prince of Wales. The scheme fails, and Artevelde perishes in an affray with
the citizens In his negotiations he had employed his daughter, and dispatched her on one occasion,
in a private yacht, to the Thames, to confer with the King. In her passage she is observed
and recognised by the follower of a Flemish noble, who has a direct interest in defeating Artevelde's
scheme for the marriage and settlement of his daughter, who, before she reaches the King, is
seized by this noble and his agents, but is rescued by a brave young citizen. Here the love
begins. This young citizen is the nephew of a wealthy old goldsmith, but he abominates the
traffic and filthy lucre of his uncle's profession--for, it should be added, the goldsmiths
were the money-jobbers of those days--and aspires to become a soldier of fortune. London was
a fitting place for such ambition, for those were chivalrous times. Artevelde's daughter entrusts
the youth with the commission, and dispatches him to the King: he acquits himself with courtly
discretion, and, having displayed some prowess in a passage of arms, soon obtains an appointment
in the royal service. Edward's interview with the lady determines him to start instantly for
Flanders, and the young citizen (Borgia) accompanies him. They fall into the hands of the same
Flemish noble who had attacked the heroine; but they are rescued, and land at the Flemish coast.--The
scheme fails, as we have said: after Artevelde's death, his daughter becomes the King's ward.
The interests of the parties now become too complicated for us to follow: we may, however,
state that "the King's Secret" is the parentage of Borgia; it was asserted that he was "the
very child reported to have been born during the period of Queen Isabella's romantic love passages
with Roger Mortimer, at the court of Hainault."--"Be content, therefore, with that you and
til here already are possessed of, since what remains is, and must continue, 'The King's Secret.'"

The heroine is the gemmy character of the story; but, in that of the King so much license has
been used as almost to defy its identification with history. Scenes, situations, and sketches,
of uncommon interest, abound throughout the work; the manners and customs of the times, and
the details of costume and pageant glitter are worked up with great labour--perhaps with more
than is looked for or will be appreciated in a novel. Still, they are creditable to the taste
and research of the author. Occasionally, there are scenes of bold and stirring interest, just
such as might be expected from an actor of Mr. Power's vivid stamp. The storm sketches towards
the close of the second volume are even infinitely better than any of John Kemble's shilling
waves or Mr. Farley's last scenes. In other portions of the work, bits of antiquarianism are
so stuck on the pages as to perplex, rather than aid the descriptions, by their technicality.
Here and there too the tinsel is unsparingly sprinkled.

Nevertheless, there is a vividness--a freshness--and altogether a superior interest, in all
the details which must render "The King's Secret" a favourite work with the fiction-and-fact-reading
public. The scenes are so complicated in their interest, that it is scarcely possible to detach
an extract.

In the early part of the first volume occurs a passage relative to the resistance of the people
of Ghent to the oppression of their rulers, which smacks strongly of the enthusiasm of liberty.

"Whilst impelled on the one hand by the strong desire to regulate the arbitrary and oppressive
exactions, which cramped their energies and held them for ever at the mercy of their despot's
caprice, and restrained on the other hand by their habitual reverence for their feudal princes.
Artevelde stepped forth, and in their startled ears pronounced the word "Resist!" His eloquence
was well seconded by the grasping severity of a needy and extravagant court, until gradually
combining their wrath and intelligence with the energies of the populace jealous of their rights,
the merchants and citizens of the cities of Flanders rose upon the bears and butterflies who
infested and robbed them, and, thrusting them forth, set modern Europe the first fearful example
of a people's strength, and the rottenness of the wooden gods for whom they laboured. Whilst
princes, on their parts, learned a lesson they have not since forgotten or ever ceased to practise,
and combining their hosts of slaves, lashed them onward to scare this stranger, Freedom, from
the earth, even as in our times of intelligence they have done, and will do; and the brainless
slaves, so lashed, shouted and went forward to the murderous work which rivetted their own
fetters, even as in our time they have done, and will again do in times to come."

       *       *       *       *       *

SPIRIT OF THE PUBLIC JOURNALS.

       *       *       *       *       *

TWENTY YEARS.

BY THOMAS HAYNES BAYLY.

  They tell me twenty years are past
  Since I have look'd upon thee last,
  And thought thee fairest of the fair,
  With thy sylph-like form and light-brown hair!
  I can remember every word
  That from those smiling lips I heard:
  Oh! how little it appears
  Like the lapse of twenty years.

  Thou art changed! in thee I find
  Beauty of another kind;
  Those rich curls lie on thy brow
  In a darker cluster now;
  And the sylph hath given place
  To the matron's form of grace.--
  Yet how little it appears
  Like the lapse of twenty years.

  Still thy cheek is round and fair;
  'Mid thy curls not one grey hair;
  Not one lurking sorrow lies
  In the lustre of those eyes:
  Thou hast felt, since last we met,
  No affliction, no regret!
  Wonderful! to shed no tears
  In the lapse of twenty years.

  But what means that changing brow?
  Tears are in those dark eyes now!
  Have my rush, incautious words
  Waken'd Feeling's slumbering chords?
  Wherefore dost thou bid me look
  At you dark-bound journal book?--
  There the register appears
  Of the lapse of twenty years.

  Thou hast been a happy bride,
  Kneeling by a lover's side;
  And unclouded was thy life,
  As his loved and loving wife;--
  Thou hast worn the garb of gloom,
  Kneeling by that husband's tomb;--
  Thou hast wept a widow's tears
  In the lapse of twenty years.

  Oh! I see my error now,
  To suppose, in cheek and brow,
  Strangers may presume to find
  Treasured secrets of the mind:
  There fond Memory still will keep
  Her vigil, when she seems to sleep;
  Though composure re-appears
  In the lapse of twenty years.

  Where's the hope that can abate
  The grief of hearts thus desolate
  That can Youth's keenest pangs assuage,
  And mitigate the gloom of Age?
  Religion bids the tempest cease,
  And, leads her to a port of peace;
  And on, the lonely pilot steers
  Through the lapse of future years.

New Monthly Magazine.

       *       *       *       *       *

MEMOIRS OF THE MACAW OF A LADY OF QUALITY.

By Lady Morgan.

(Continued from page 318).

Meantime Father Flynn, with a Jesuit's adroitness, was endeavouring to gain his object, as
I afterwards learned; but on alluding to his works and celebrity, he discovered that the ambassador
had never so much as heard of him, though he had heard wonders of his parrot, which he requested
might be sent for. I was immediately ushered into the cabinet, as the superior went out, and
I never saw my dear master more. Perhaps he could "bear no rival near the throne;" perhaps,
in his preoccupation, he forgot to reclaim me. Be that as it may, he sailed that night, in
a Portuguese merchantman, for Lisbon; and I became the property of the representative of his
British Majesty. After the first few days of favouritism, I sensibly lost ground with his excellency;
for he was too deeply occupied, and had too many resources of his own, to find his amusement
in my society. During the few days I sat at his table, I entertained his diplomatic guests
with cracking nuts, extracting the kernels, peeling oranges, talking broad Scotch and Parisian
French, chanting the "Gloria," dancing "Gai Coco," and, in fact, exhibiting all my accomplishments.
I was, however, soon sent to the secretary's office to be taught a new jargon, and to be subjected
to tricks from the underlings of the embassy.

Here I picked up but little, for there was but little to pick up. I learned, however, to call
for "Red tape and sealing-wax"--to cry "What a bore!" "Did you ever see such a quiz?"--to call
"Lord Charles," "Mr. Henry," and pronounce "good for nothing"--a remark applied by the young
men to the pens, which they flung away by hundreds, and which the servants picked up and sold,
with other perquisites of office incidental to their calling. Whenever I applied these acquisitions
with effect, it was always attributed to chance; but I was so tormented and persecuted by Lord
Charles and Mr. Henry, who being unpaid attachés, had nothing to do, and helped each other
to do it, that I took every opportunity to annoy them. One day, when the ante-room was filled
with young officers of the British frigate, one of the boobies, pointing to Lord Charles, called
to me, "Poll, who is that?" I answered, "Red tape and sealing-wax;" and raised a general shout
at the expense of the little diplomatic pedant. An Irish midshipman present, a Mr. O'Gallagher,
pointing to Mr. Henry, asked me, "Who is that, Poll?" "Good for nothing," I replied; and Mr.
Henry flew at me in a rage, swore I had been taught to insult him, and that he would wring
my neck off. This he would have done but for the protection of the chaplain, to whose breast
I flew, and who carried me away to his own room. In a few days I was consigned to Mr. O'Gallagher,
the midshipman, as a present to the chaplain's patroness, a lady of high rank and celebrated
sanctity in Ireland, near to whose Propaganda the family of O'Gallagher resided. I was the
bearer of a letter of introduction, in which my pious education and saintly acquirements were
set forth, my knowledge of the Creed exposed, and myself recommended as a means of aiding her
ladyship's proselyting vocation, as animals of less intelligence had done before. I embarked
therefore on board the British frigate--an honour which had been refused my old master, and
was treated with great care and attention during the voyage. On arriving in a British port,
my young protector got leave of absence, and took a passage in a vessel bound for Dublin. On
the morning of our coming to anchor, my cage was put on shore on the quay, while O'Gallagher
returned to look after his luggage. Thus left to myself, I soon attracted the attention of
a wretched, squalid-looking animal, something between a scare-crow and a long-armed gibbon.
His melancholy visage dilated into a broad grin the moment he saw me; and coming up, and making
me a bow, he said, "Ah! thin, Poll, agrah, you're welcome to ould Ireland. Would you take a
taste of potato, just to cure your say-sickness?" and he put a cold potato into my cage, which
he had been gnawing with avidity himself. The potato was among the first articles of my food
in my native paradise, and the recollection of it awakened associations which softened me towards
the poor, hospitable creature who presented it. Still I hesitated, till he said, "Take it,
Miss, and a thousand welcomes,--take it, agrah, from poor Pat." I took it with infinite delight;
and holding it in my claws, and peeling it with my beak, began to mutter "Poor Pat! poor Pat!"
"Oh, musha, musha! oh, by the powers!" He cried, "but that's a great bird, any how--just like
a Christian--look here, boys." A crowd now gathered round my cage, and several exclamations,
which recalled my old friends of the Propaganda, caught my attention. "Oh! queen of glory!"
cried one; "Holy Moses!" exclaimed another; "Blessed rosary!" said a third. I turned my head
from side to side, listening; and excited by the excitement I caused, I recited several scraps
of litanies in good Latinity,--There was first an universal silence, then an universal shout,
and a general cry of "A miracle! a miracle!" "Go to Father Murphy," said one; "Off with ye,
ye sowl, to the Counsellor," said a second; "Bring the baccah to him," cried an old woman;
"Mrs. Carey, where is your blind son?" said a young one. Could faith have sufficed, I should
indeed have worked miracles. In the midst of my triumphs, Mr. O'Gallagher returned, carried
me off, put me in a carriage, and drove away, followed by the shouting multitude.--That night
we put up at an hotel in Sackville-street, and the next morning the street re-echoed with cries
of "Here is a full account of the miraculous parrot just arrived in the city of Dublin, with
a list of his wonderful cures, for the small charge of one halfpenny." Shortly after we set
off by the Ballydangan heavy fly, for Sourcraut Hall. I was placed on the top of the coach,
to the delight of the outside passengers; where I soon made an acquaintance with the customary
oratory of guards and coachmen, which produced much laughter. I rapidly added to my vocabulary
many curious phrases, among which the most distinct were--"Aisy, now, aisy," "Get along out
of that," "All's right," &c. &c. &c. with nearly a verse of "The night before Larry was stretched,"
tune and all, and the air of "Polly put the kettle on," which the guard was practising on his
bugle, to relieve the tedium of the journey. Like all nervous animals, I am extremely susceptible
to external impressions; and the fresh air, movement, and company, had all their usual exhilarating
effects on my spirits. Our lady of Sourcraut Hall, Lady C----, received myself and my protector
with a ceremonious and freezing politeness; asked a few questions concerning my treatment,
gentleness, and docility; and desiring my kind companion to put me on the back of a chair,
she bowed him out of the room. When he was gone, the lady turned to a gloomy-looking man, who
sat reading at a table, and who looked so like one of the Portuguese brothers of the Propaganda,
that I took him for a frate--"What a poor benighted creature that young man seems to be!" she
said. The grave gentleman, who I afterwards found was known in the neighbourhood by the title
of her ladyship's "moral agent," replied, "What, madam, would you have of an O'Gallagher--a
family of the blackest Papists in the county?" My lady shook her head, and threw up her devout
eyes.--Dinner was now announced, and the moral agent giving his hand to the lady, I was left
to sleep away the fatigue of my journey.

I awoke very hungry, and consequently disposed to be very talkative, but was silenced by finding
myself surrounded by a crowd of persons of both sexes, who were eagerly gazing on me. A certain
prostrate look of sly, shy humility, lengthened their pale faces, to the exclusion of all intellectual
expression. They formed a sort of religious meeting, called a tea-and-tract party; but the
open door discovered preparations for a more substantial conclusion to the obbligato prayers
and lectures of the evening. My new mistress was evidently descanting on my merits, and read
that paragraph from the chaplain's letter which described my early associations, my knowledge
of the Creed, and announced me as a source of edification to her servants. Two or three words
of this harangue operating on my memory, I put forth my profession of faith with a clearness
of articulation and fidelity really wonderful for a bird. What exclamations! what turning-up
of eyes! I was stifled with caresses, intoxicated with praises, and crammed with sweetmeats.
The moral agent grew pale with jealousy, when Doctor Direful was announced. He rushed into
the room like a whirlwind, but stood aghast at beholding the devout crowd that encircled me.
Instead of the usual apophthegms, and serious discourse, he heard nothing but "Pretty Poll,"
"Scratch a poll," "What a dear bird," &c. The malicious moral agent chuckled, and explained
that the bird had, for the moment, usurped the attention which should exclusively belong to
his reverence, who had taken the pains to come so far to enlighten the dark inmates of Sourcraut
Hall. Dr. Direful stood rolling his fierce eye (he had but one) on the abashed assembly; and,
pushing me off my perch, drove me with his handkerchief into the dense crowd which filled the
bottom of the room, and consisted of all the servants of the house, with some recently converted
Papists from among the Sourcraut tenantry. All drew back in horror, to let one so anathematised
pass without contact. I coiled myself up near a droll-looking little postilion, who, while
turning up the whites of his eyes, was coaxing me to him with a fragment of plumb-cake, which
he had stolen from the banquet-table. Dr. Direful returned to the centre of the room, and mounted
a desk to commence his lecture. The auditory crowded and cowered timidly round him, while he,
looking down on them with a wrathful and contemptuous glance, was about to pour forth the pious
venom which hung upon his lips, when a sharp cry of "Get along out of that" struck him dumb.
Inquiry was useless, for all were ready to swear that they had not uttered a word. Dr. Direful
called them "blasphemous liars," and proceeded one and all to empty the vials of his wrath
through the words of a text of awful denunciation, which I dare not here repeat; but his words
were again arrested by the exclamation of, "Aisy now, aisy--what a devil of a hurry you are
in!" uttered in quick succession.--He jumped down from his altitude; and, in reply to his renewed
inquiries, a serious coachman offered up to the vengeance of this Moloch of methodism the mischievous
postilion, who had that morning detected the not always sober son of the whip in other devotions
than those to which he professed exclusive addiction. When I saw the rage of all parties, I
thought of the roasted Indians of the Brazils, and shuddered for the poor lad. After a short,
but inquisitorial examination, in which he in vain endeavoured to throw the blame on me, he
was stripped of his gaudy dress, and in spite of his well-founded protestations of innocence,
turned almost naked from the house. When peace was restored, a hymn was sung as an exorcism
of the evil spirit that had gotten among the assembly; when, being determined to exculpate
the poor postilion, I joined with all my force in the chorus, with my Catholic "Gloria in excelsis,"
which I abruptly changed into "Polly put the kettle on." Thus taken in the fact, I was, without
ceremony, denounced as an emissary from Clongowes, brought to Sourcraut Hall by the Papist
O'Gallagher, with a forged letter, to disturb the community. I was immediately cross-examined
by a religious attorney, as if I had been a white-boy or a ribbon-man. "Come forward," he said,
"you bird of satan!--speak out, and answer for yourself, for its yourself can do it, you egg
of the devil! What brought you here?" I answered, "It was all for my sweet sowl's sake, jewel!"--and
the answer decided my fate, without more to do. And now loaded with all the reproaches that
the odium theologicum could suggest, I was cuffed, hunted, and finally driven out of the gates
by the serious coachman, to perish on the highway. On recovering from my fright, I found myself
at the edge of a dry ditch, where the poor shivering postilion sat lamenting his martyrdom.
I went up to him, cowering and chattering; and at the sight of me the tears dried on his dirty
cheeks--his sobs changed to a laugh of delight; and when I hopped on his wrist, and cried "Poor
Pat," all his sufferings were forgotten. While thus occupied, a little carriage, drawn by a
superb horse, with the reins thrown loose on his beautiful neck, ascended the hill. At the
sight I screamed out "Get along out of that!" which so frightened the high-blooded creature
that he started, and flung the two persons in the carriage fairly into the middle of the road.
One of them, in a military dress, sprung at once on his feet, and laying the whip across the
naked shoulders of the postilion, exclaimed, "I'll teach you, you little villain, to break
people's necks." "Oh! murther! murther!" cried the poor boy, "shure, it was not me, plase your
honour, only the parrot, Captain." "What parrot, you lying rascal?" "There, Captain, Sir, look
forenenst you." The captain did look up, and saw me perched on the branch of a scrubby hawthorn-tree.
Surprised and amused, he exclaimed, "By Jove! how odd! What a magnificent bird! Why Poll, what
the deuce brought you here?" "Eh, sirs," I replied at random, "it was aw' for the love of the
siller." The captain, and his little groom Midge, who had picked himself up on the other side
of the cabriolet, shrieked with laughing. "I say, my boy," said the captain, "is that macaw
your's?" "It is," said the little liar. "Would you take a guinea for it?" asked the captain.
"Troth, would I; two," said the postilion. "Done," said the captain; and pulling out his purse,
and giving the two guineas, I suffered myself to be caught and placed in the cabriolet. The
young officer sprang in after me, and, taking the reins, pursued his journey. We slept that
night at a miserable inn in a miserable town. The next morning we arrived at my old hotel in
Sackville-street, and shortly after sailed for England.

The Honourable George Fitz-Forward, my new master, was a younger brother of small means and
large pretensions. He had been quartered at Kil-mac-squabble with a detachment, where he had
passed the winter in still-hunting, quelling ructions, shooting grouse and rebels, spitting
over the bridge, and smoking cigars; and having obtained leave of absence, pour se d'écrasser,
was on his way to London for the ensuing season. We travelled in the cab by easy stages, and
halted only at great houses on the road, beginning with Plas Newyd, and ending at Sion House.
My master's rank, and my talents, were as good as board wages to us; and as the summer was
not yet sufficiently advanced for the London winter, we found every body at home, and had an
amazingly pleasant time. My master was enchanted with his acquisition. I made the frais of
every society; and my repartees and bonmots furnished the Lord Johns and Lady Louisas with
subjects for whole reams of pink and blue note-paper. My master frequently said, "That bird
is wonderful! he is a great catch!"--and my fame had spread over the whole west end of the
town a full week before our arrival in London.

The Metropolitan, No. I.

       *       *       *       *       *

LONDON LYRICS,

PROVERBS.

  My good Aunt Bridget, spite of age,
  Versed in Valerian, Dock, and Sage,
    Well knew the Virtues of herbs;
  But Proverbs gain'd her chief applause,
  "Child," she exclaimed, "respect old saws,
    And pin your faith on Proverbs."

  Thus taught, I dubb'd my lot secure;
  And, playing long-rope, "slow and sure,"
    Conceived my movement clever;
  When lo! an urchin by my side
  Push'd me head foremost in, and cried--
    "Keep Moving," "Now or Never,"

  At Melton, next, I join'd the hunt,
  Of bogs and bushes bore the brunt,
    Nor once my courser held in;
  But when I saw a yawning steep,
  I thought of "Look before you leap,"
    And curb'd my eager gelding.

  While doubtful thus I rein'd my roan,
  Willing to save a fractured bone,
    Yet fearful of exposure,
  A sportsman thus my spirit stirr'd--
  "Delays are dangerous;"--I spurr'd
    My steed, and leap'd th' enclosure.

  I ogled Jane, who heard me say
  That "Rome was not built in a day,"
    When lo: Sir Fleet O'Grady
  Put this, my saw, to sea again,
  And proved, by running off with Jane,
    "Faint heart ne'er won fair Lady."

  Aware "New Brooms sweep clean," I took
  An untaught tyro for a cook,
    (The tale I tell a fact is)
  She spoilt my soup; but, when I chid,
  She thus once more my work undid,
    "Perfection comes from Practice."

  Thus, out of every adage hit,
  And, finding that ancestral wit
    As changeful as the clime is:
  From Proverbs, turning on my heel,
  I now cull Wisdom from my seal,
    Who's motto's "Ne quid nimis."

New Monthly Magazine.

       *       *       *       *       *

THE GATHERER.

  A snapper up of unconsidered trifles.
  SHAKSPEARE.

       *       *       *       *       *

SHIP LAUNCH.

In a few months a new ship will be launched, called the Reform. Admiral, William the Fourth--Chief
Mate, Grey--Pilot, Brougham--Purser, Russell--Crew, the people of England, Scotland, and Ireland.
Bound to Palace Yard, Westminster; freight uncommonly cheap, with good stowage.

N.B. For further particulars inquire of Bob Oldborough, at the sign of the Tumble down Dick,
Borough, Southwark.

P.T.W.

       *       *       *       *       *

Gold coins (ix James I.) were raised by proclamation, 2s. in every 20s.

Groat.--In the Saxon time, we had no silver money bigger than a penny, nor after the conquest,
till Edward III. who about the year 1351, coined grosses (i.e. groats, or great pieces) which
went for 4d. a-piece; and so the matter stood till the reign of Henry VII. who in 1504 first
coined shillings.

G.K.

       *       *       *       *       *

TWO THOUSAND POUNDS REFUSED BY A BURGESS FOR HIS VOTE.

Oldfield, in his History of Boroughs, says, "On the death of the late Lord Holmes, a very powerful
attempt was made by Sir William Oglander and some other neighbouring gentlemen, to deprive
his lordship's nephew and successor, the Rev. Mr. Troughear Holmes, of his influence over the
Corporation of Newport, Isle of Wight. The number of that body was at that time twenty-three,
there being one vacancy amongst the aldermen, occasioned by the recent death of Lord Holmes.
Eleven of them continued firm to the interest of the nephew, and the same number was equally
eager to transfer that interest to Sir William Oglander and the Worsley family. A Mr. Taylor
of this town, one of the burgesses, withheld his declaration, and as his vote would decide
the balance of future influence, it was imagined that he only suspended it for the purpose
of private advantage. Agreeably to that idea, he was eagerly sought by the agents of each party.
The first who applied is said to have made him an offer of 2.000l. Mr. Taylor had actually
made up his mind to have voted with his party, but the moment his integrity and independence
were attacked, he reversed his determination, and resolved to give his suffrage on the opposite
side. That party, however, like their opponents, being ignorant of the favour designed them,
and of the accident to which they owed it, assailed him with a more advantageous offer. He
informed them that he had but just formed the resolution, in consequence of a similar insult
from their adversaries, of giving them his support, but since he had discovered that they were
both aiming at power by the same means, he was determined to vote for neither of them; and
to put himself out of the power of further temptation, he resolved to resign his gown as a
burgess of the corporation; which he accordingly did the next day."

P.T.W.

       *       *       *       *       *

CARDINAL WOLSEY.

Limington, one mile east from Ilchester, in Somersetshire, is noted on account of a school
having been kept there by the great Cardinal Wolsey in the early part of his life, who whilst
in this situation was, for a misdemeanour, put into the stocks by Sir Amias Pawlett. This indignity
was never forgiven by the haughty prelate, who, when in power, made Sir Amias feel the weight
of his resentment, by making him dance attendance at the court for many years, whilst soliciting
a favour.

C.D.

       *       *       *       *       *

On an unsuccessful Oculist, who became a Tallow Chandler.

  So many of the human kind,
  Under his hands became stone blind,
  That for such failings to atone,
  At length he let the trade alone;
  And ever after in despite
  Of darkness, liv'd by giving, light;
  But Death who has exciseman's power
  To enter houses every hour,
  Thinking his light grew rather sallow,
  Snuffed out his wick, and seized his tallow.

I.H.

       *       *       *       *       *

TO CORRESPONDENTS.

We are again compelled to remind our Correspondents that by the multiplicity of their well-intended
communications, we are unable to answer them individually otherwise than by the insertion of
their papers. We receive upwards of 150 letters during the month, and were we to promise replies
to all of them, our Editorial duties would he heavy indeed, especially as the correspondence
is but one of the many features of the Mirror.

       *       *       *       *       *