Yes;--life would have been worth the having if Marion Fay had remained to him. It was thus
he communed with himself as he sat there on the tomb. From the moment in which he had first
seen her in Mrs. Roden's house he had felt that things were changed with him. There had come
a vision before him which filled him full of delight. As he learned to know the tones of her
voice, and the motion of her limbs, and to succumb to the feminine charms with which she enveloped
him, all the world was brightened up to his view. Here there was no pretence of special blood,
no assumption of fantastic titles, no claim to superiority because of fathers and mothers who
were in themselves by no means superior to their neighbours. And yet there had been all the
grace, all the loveliness, all the tenderness, without which his senses would not have been
captivated. He had never known his want;--but he had in truth wanted one who should be at all
points a lady, and yet not insist on a right to be so esteemed on the strength of inherited
privileges. Chance, good fortune, providence had sent her to him,--or more probably the eternal
fitness of things, as he had allowed himself to argue when things had fallen out so well to
his liking. Then there had arisen difficulties, which had seemed to him to be vain and absurd,--though
they would not allow themselves to be at once swept away. They had talked to him of his station
and of hers, making that an obstacle which to him had been a strong argument in favour of her
love. Against this he had done battle with the resolute purpose which a man has who is sure
of his cause. He would have none of their sophistries, none of their fears, none of their old-fashioned
absurdities. Did she love him? Was her heart to him as was his to her? That was the one question
on which it must all depend. As he thought of it all, sitting there on the tombstone, he put
out his arm as though to fold her form to his bosom when he thought of the moment in which
he became sure that it was so. There had been no doubt of the full-flowing current of her love.
Then he had aroused himself, and had shaken his mane like a lion, and had sworn aloud that
this vain obstacle should be no obstacle, even though it was pleaded by herself. Nature had
been strong enough within him to assure him that he would overcome the obstacle.

And he had overcome it,--or was overcoming it,--when that other barrier gradually presented
itself, and loomed day by day terribly large before his affrighted eyes. Even to that he would
not yield,--not only as regarded her but himself also. Had there been no such barrier, the
possession of Marion would have been to him an assurance of perfect bliss which the prospect
of far-distant death would not have effected. When he began to perceive that her condition
was not as that of other young women, he became aware of a great danger,--of a danger to himself
as well as to her, to himself rather than to her. This increased rather than diminished his
desire for the possession. As the ardent rider will be more intent to take the fence when it
looms before him large and difficult, so with him the resolution to make Marion his wife became
the stronger when he knew that there were reasons of prudence, reasons of caution, reasons
of worldly wisdom, why he should not do so. It had become a religion to him that she should
be his one. Then gradually her strength had become known to him, and slowly he was made aware
that he must bow to her decision. All that he wanted in all the world he must not have,--not
that the love which he craved was wanting, but because she knew that her own doom was fixed.

She had bade him retrick his beams, and take the light and the splendour of his sun elsewhere.
The light and the splendour of his sun had all passed from him. She had absorbed them altogether.
He, while he had been boasting to himself of his power and his manliness, in that he would
certainly overcome all the barriers, had found himself to be weak as water in her hands. She,
in her soft feminine tones, had told him what duty had required of her, and, as she had said
so she had done. Then he had stood on one side, and had remained looking on, till she had--gone
away and left him. She had never been his. It had not been allowed to him even to write his
name, as belonging also to her, on the gravestone.

But she had loved him. There was nothing in it all but this to which his mind could revert
with any feeling of satisfaction. She had certainly loved him. If such love might be continued
between a disembodied spirit and one still upon the earth,--if there were any spirit capable
of love after that divorce between the soul and the body,--her love certainly would still be
true to him. Most assuredly his should be true to her. Whatever he might do towards obeying
her in striving to form some manly purpose for his life, he would never ask another woman to
be his wife, he would never look for other love. The black coat should be laid aside as soon
as might be, so that the world around him should not have cause for remark; but the mourning
should never be taken from his heart.

Then, when the darkness of night had quite come upon him, he arose from his seat, and flinging
himself on his knees, stretched his arms wildly across the grave. "Marion," he said; "Marion;
oh, Marion, will you hear me? Though gone from me, art thou not mine?" He looked up into the
night, and there, before his eyes, was her figure, beautiful as ever, with all her loveliness
of half-developed form, with her soft hair upon her shoulders; and her eyes beamed on him,
and a heavenly smile came across her face, and her lips moved as though she would encourage
him. "My Marion;--my wife!"

Very late that night the servants heard him as he opened the door and walked across the hall,
and made his way up to his own room.

CHAPTER XX.

MR. GREENWOOD'S LAST BATTLE.

During the whole of that long summer nothing was absolutely arranged as to Roden and Lady Frances,
though it was known to all London, and to a great many persons outside of London, that they
were certainly to become man and wife. The summer was very long to Lord and Lady Trafford because
of the necessity incumbent on them of remaining through the last dregs of the season on account
of Lady Amaldina's marriage. Had Lady Amaldina thrown herself away on another Roden the aunt
would have no doubt gone to the country; but her niece had done her duty in life with so much
propriety and success that it would have been indecent to desert her. Lady Kingsbury therefore
remained in Park Lane, and was driven to endure frequently the sight of the Post Office clerk.

For George Roden was admitted to the house even though it was at last acknowledged that he
must be George Roden, and nothing more. And it was found also that he must be a Post Office
clerk, and nothing more. Lord Persiflage, on whom Lady Kingsbury chiefly depended for seeing
that her own darlings should not be disgraced by being made brothers-in-law to anything so
low as a clerk in the Post Office, was angry at last, and declared that it was impossible to
help a man who would not help himself. "It is no use trying to pick a man up who will lie in
the gutter." It was thus he spoke of Roden in his anger; and then the Marchioness would wring
her hands and abuse her stepdaughter. Lord Persiflage did think that something might be done
for the young man if the young man would only allow himself to be called a Duke. But the young
man would not allow it, and Lord Persiflage did not see what could be done. Nevertheless there
was a general idea abroad in the world that something would be done. Even the mysterious savour
of high rank which attached itself to the young man would do something for him.

It may be remembered that the Marquis himself, when first the fact had come to his ears that
his daughter loved the young man, had been almost as ferociously angry as his wife. He had
assented to the carrying of her away to the Saxon castle. He had frowned upon her. He had been
a party to the expelling her from his own house. But gradually his heart had become softened
towards her; in his illness he had repented of his harshness; he had not borne her continued
absence easily, and had of late looked about for an excuse for accepting her lover. When the
man was discovered to be a Duke, though it was only an Italian Duke, of course he accepted
him. Now his wife told him daily that Roden was not a Duke, because he would not accept his
Dukedom,--and ought therefore again to be rejected. Lord Persiflage had declared that nothing
could be done for him, and therefore he ought to be rejected. But the Marquis clung to his
daughter. As the man was absolutely a Duke, according to the laws of all the Heralds, and all
the Courts, and all the tables of precedency and usages of peerage in Christendom, he could
not de-grade himself even by any motion of his own. He was the eldest and the legitimate son
of the last Duca di Crinola,--so the Marquis said,--and as such was a fitting aspirant for
the hand of the daughter of an English peer. "But he hasn't got a shilling," said Lady Kingsbury
weeping. The Marquis felt that it was within his own power to produce some remedy for this
evil, but he did not care to say as much to his wife, who was tender on that point in regard
to the interest of her three darlings. Roden continued his visits to Park Lane very frequently
all through the summer, and had already arranged for an autumn visit to Castle Hautboy,--in
spite of that angry word spoken by Lord Persiflage. Everybody knew he was to marry Lady Frances.
But when the season was over, and all the world had flitted from London, nothing was settled.

Lady Kingsbury was of course very unhappy during all this time; but there was a source of misery
deeper, more pressing, more crushing than even the Post Office clerk. Mr. Greenwood, the late
chaplain, had, during his last interview with the Marquis, expressed some noble sentiments.
He would betray nothing that had been said to him in confidence. He would do nothing that could
annoy the Marchioness, because the Marchioness was a lady, and as such, entitled to all courtesy
from him as a gentleman. There were grounds no doubt on which he could found a claim, but he
would not insist on them, as his doing so would be distasteful to her ladyship. He felt that
he was being ill-treated, almost robbed; but he would put up with that rather than say a word
which would come against his own conscience as a gentleman. With these high assurances he took
his leave of the Marquis as though he intended to put up with the beggarly stipend of £200
a year which the Marquis had promised him. Perhaps that had been his intention;--but before
two days were over he had remembered that though it might be base to tell her ladyship's secrets,
the penny-post was still open to him.

It certainly was the case that Lady Kingsbury had spoken to him with strong hopes of the death
of the heir to the title. Mr. Greenwood, in discussing the matter with himself, went beyond
that, and declared to himself that she had done so with expectation as well as hope. Fearful
words had been said. So he assured himself. He thanked his God that nothing had come of it.
Only for him something,--he assured himself,--would have come of it. The whisperings in that
up-stairs sitting-room at Trafford had been dreadful. He had divulged nothing. He had held
his tongue,--like a gentleman. But ought he not to be paid for holding his tongue? There are
so many who act honestly from noble motives, and then feel that their honesty should be rewarded
by all those gains which dishonesty might have procured for them! About a fortnight after the
visit which Mr. Greenwood made to the Marquis he did write a letter to the Marchioness. "I
am not anxious," he said, "to do more than remind your ladyship of those peculiarly confidential
discussions which took place between yourself and me at Trafford during the last winter; but
I think you will acknowledge that they were of a nature to make me feel that I should not be
discarded like an old glove. If you would tell his lordship that something should be done for
me, something would be done." Her ladyship when she received this was very much frightened.
She remembered the expressions she had allowed herself to use, and did say a hesitating, halting
word to her husband, suggesting that Mr. Greenwood's pension should be increased. The Marquis
turned upon her in anger. "Did you ever promise him anything?" he asked. No;--she had promised
him nothing. "I am giving him more than he deserves, and will do no more," said the Marquis.
There was something in his voice which forbade her to speak another word.

Mr. Greenwood's letter having remained for ten days without an answer, there came another.
"I cannot but think that you will acknowledge my right to expect an answer," he said, "considering
the many years through which I have enjoyed the privilege of your ladyship's friendship, and
the very confidential terms on which we have been used to discuss matters of the highest interest
to us both." The "matters" had no doubt been the probability of the accession to the title
of her own son through the demise of his elder brother! She understood now all her own folly,
and something of her own wickedness. To this second appeal she wrote a short answer, having
laid awake over it one entire night.

   DEAR MR. GREENWOOD--I have spoken to the Marquis, and he
   will do nothing.

   Yours truly,

   C. KINGSBURY.

This she did without saying a word to her husband.

Then, after the interval of a few days, there came a third letter.

   MY DEAR LADY KINGSBURY,--

   I cannot allow myself to think that this should be the
   end of it all, after so many years of social intimacy and
   confidential intercourse. Can you yourself imagine the
   condition of a gentleman of my age reduced after a life of
   ease and comfort to exist on a miserable pension of £200 a
   year? It simply means death,--death! Have I not a right to
   expect something better after the devotion of a life?

   Who has known as well as I the stumbling-blocks to
   your ladyship's ambition which have been found in the
   existences of Lord Hampstead and Lady Frances Trafford?
   I have sympathized with you no doubt,--partly because of
   their peculiarities, partly from sincere affection for
   your ladyship. It cannot surely be that your ladyship
   should now treat me as an enemy because I could do no more
   than sympathize!

   Dig I cannot. To beg I am ashamed. You will hardly wish
   that I should perish from want. I have not as yet been
   driven to open out my sad case to any one but yourself.
   Do not force me to it,--for the sake of those darling
   children for whose welfare I have ever been so anxious.

   Believe me to be,
   Your ladyship's most devoted and faithful friend,

   THOMAS GREENWOOD.

This epistle so frightened her that she began to consider how she might best collect together
a sufficient sum of money to satisfy the man. She did succeed in sending him a note for £50.
But this he was too wary to take. He returned it, saying that he could not, though steeped
in poverty, accept chance eleemosynary aid. What he required.--and had he thought a right to
ask,--was an increase to the fixed stipend allowed him. He must, he thought, again force himself
upon the presence of the Marquis, and explain the nature of the demand more explicitly.

Upon this Lady Kingsbury showed all the letters to her husband. "What does he mean by stumbling-blocks?"
asked the Marquis in his wrath. Then there was a scene which was sad enough. She had to confess
that she had spoken very freely to the chaplain respecting her step-children. "Freely! What
does freely mean? Do you want them out of the way?" What a question for a husband to have to
ask his wife! But she had a door by which she could partly escape. It was not that she had
wanted them out of the way, but that she had been so horrified by what she had thought to be
their very improper ideas as to their own rank of life. Those marriages which they had intended
had caused her to speak as she had done to the chaplain. When alone at Trafford she had no
doubt opened her mind to the clergyman. She rested a great deal on the undoubted fact that
Mr. Greenwood was a clergyman. Hampstead and Fanny had been stumbling-blocks to her ambition
because she had desired to see them married properly into proper families. She probably thought
that she was telling the truth as she said all this. It was at any rate accepted as truth,
and she was condoned. As to Hampstead, it was known by this time that that marriage could never
take place; and as to Lady Frances, the Marchioness was driven, in her present misery, to confess,
that as the Duca was in truth a Duca, his family must be held to be proper.

But the Marquis sent for Mr. Cumming, his London solicitor, and put all the letters into his
hand,--with such explanation as he thought necessary to give. Mr. Cumming at first recommended
that the pension should be altogether stopped; but to this the Marquis did not consent. "It
would not suit me that he should starve," said the Marquis. "But if he continues to write to
her ladyship something must be done."

"Threatening letters to extort money!" said the lawyer confidently. "I can have him before
a magistrate to-morrow, my lord, if it be thought well." It was, however, felt to be expedient
that Mr. Cumming should in the first case send for Mr. Greenwood, and explain to that gentleman
the nature of the law.

Mr. Cumming no doubt felt himself that it would be well that Mr. Greenwood should not starve,
and well also that application should not be made to the magistrate, unless as a last resort.
He, too, asked himself what was meant by "stumbling-blocks." Mr. Greenwood was a greedy rascal,
descending to the lowest depth of villany with the view of making money out of the fears of
a silly woman. But the silly woman, the lawyer thought, must have been almost worse than silly.
It seemed natural to Mr. Cumming that a stepmother should be anxious for the worldly welfare
of her own children;--not unnatural, perhaps, that she should be so anxious as to have a feeling
at her heart amounting almost to a wish that "chance" should remove the obstacle. Chance, as
Mr. Cumming was aware, could in such a case mean only--death. Mr. Cumming, when he put this
in plain terms to himself, felt it to be very horrid; but there might be a doubt whether such
a feeling would be criminal, if backed up by no deed and expressed by no word. But here it
seemed that words had been spoken. Mr. Greenwood had probably invented that particular phrase,
but would hardly have invented it unless something had been said to justify it. It was his
business, however, to crush Mr. Greenwood, and not to expose her ladyship. He wrote a very
civil note to Mr. Greenwood. Would Mr. Greenwood do him the kindness to call in Bedford Row
at such or such an hour,--or indeed at any other hour that might suit him. Mr. Greenwood thinking
much of it, and resolving in his mind that any increase to his pension might probably be made
through Mr. Cumming, did as he was bid, and waited upon the lawyer.

Mr. Cumming, when the clergyman was shown in, was seated with the letters before him,--the
various letters which Mr. Greenwood had written to Lady Kingsbury,--folded out one over another,
so that the visitor's eye might see them and feel their presence; but he did not intend to
use them unless of necessity. "Mr. Greenwood," he said, "I learn that you are discontented
with the amount of a retiring allowance which the Marquis of Kingsbury has made you on leaving
his service."

"I am, Mr. Cumming; certainly I am.--£200 a year is not--"

"Let us call it £300, Mr. Greenwood."

"Well, yes; Lord Hampstead did say something--"

"And has paid something. Let us call it £300. Not that the amount matters. The Marquis and
Lord Hampstead are determined not to increase it."

"Determined!"

"Quite determined that under no circumstances will they increase it. They may find it necessary
to stop it."

"Is this a threat?"

"Certainly it is a threat,--as far as it goes. There is another threat which I may have to
make for the sake of coercing you; but I do not wish to use it if I can do without it."

"Her ladyship knows that I am ill-treated in this matter. She sent me £50 and I returned it.
It was not in that way that I wished to be paid for my services."

"It was well for you that you did. But for that I could not certainly have asked you to come
and see me here."

"You could not?"

"No;--I could not. You will probably understand what I mean." Here Mr. Cumming laid his hands
upon the letters, but made no other allusion to them. "A very few words more will, I think,
settle all that there is to be arranged between us. The Marquis, from certain reasons of humanity,--with
which I for one hardly sympathize in this case,--is most unwilling to stop, or even to lessen,
the ample pension which is paid to you."

"Ample;--after a whole lifetime!"

"But he will do so if you write any further letters to any member of his family."

"That is tyranny, Mr. Cumming."

"Very well. Then is the Marquis a tyrant. But he will go further than that in his tyranny.
If it be necessary to defend either himself or any of his family from further annoyance, he
will do so by criminal proceedings. You are probably aware that the doing this would be very
disagreeable to the Marquis. Undoubtedly it would. To such a man as Lord Kingsbury it is a
great trouble to have his own name, or worse, that of others of his family, brought into a
Police Court. But, if necessary, it will be done. I do not ask you for any assurance, Mr. Greenwood,
because it may be well that you should take a little time to think of it. But unless you are
willing to lose your income, and to be taken before a police magistrate for endeavouring to
extort money by threatening letters, you had better hold your hand."

"I have never threatened."

"Good morning, Mr. Greenwood."

"Mr. Cumming, I have threatened no one."

"Good morning, Mr. Greenwood." Then the discarded chaplain took his leave, failing to find
the words with which he could satisfactorily express his sense of the injury which had been
done him.

Before that day was over he had made up his mind to take his £300 a year and be silent. The
Marquis, he now found, was not so infirm as he had thought, nor the Marchioness quite so full
of fears. He must give it up, and take his pittance. But in doing so he continued to assure
himself that he was greatly injured, and did not cease to accuse Lord Kingsbury of sordid parsimony
in refusing to reward adequately one whose services to the family had been so faithful and
long-enduring.

It may, however, be understood that in the midst of troubles such as these Lady Kingsbury did
not pass a pleasant summer.

CHAPTER XXI.

THE REGISTRAR OF STATE RECORDS.

Although Lord Persiflage had seemed to be very angry with the recusant Duke, and had made that
uncivil speech about the gutter, still he was quite willing that George Roden should be asked
down to Castle Hautboy. "Of course we must do something for him," he said to his wife; "but
I hate scrupulous men. I don't blame him at all for making such a girl as Fanny fall in love
with him. If I were a Post Office clerk I'd do the same if I could."

"Not you. You wouldn't have given yourself the trouble."

"But when I had done it I wouldn't have given her friends more trouble than was necessary.
I should have known that they would have had to drag me up somewhere. I should have looked
for that. But I shouldn't have made myself difficult when chance gave a helping hand. Why shouldn't
he have taken his title?"

"Of course we all wish he would."

"Fanny is as bad as he is. She has caught some of Hampstead's levelling ideas and encourages
the young man. It was all Kingsbury's fault from the first. He began the world wrong, and now
he cannot get himself right again. A radical aristocrat is a contradiction in terms. It is
very well that there should be Radicals. It would be a stupid do-nothing world without them.
But a man can't be oil and vinegar at the same time." This was the expression made by Lord
Persiflage of his general ideas on politics in reference to George Roden and his connection
with the Trafford family; but not the less was George Roden asked down to Castle Hautboy. Lady
Frances was not to be thrown over because she had made a fool of herself,--nor was George Roden
to be left out in the cold, belonging as he did now to Lady Frances. Lord Persiflage never
approved very much of anybody,--but he never threw anybody over.

It was soon after the funeral of Marion Fay that Roden went down to Cumberland. During the
last two months of Marion's illness Hampstead and Roden had been very often together. Not that
they had lived together, as Hampstead had declared himself unable to bear continued society.
His hours had been passed alone. But there had not been many days in which the friends had
not seen each other for a few minutes. It had become a habit with Hampstead to ride over to
Paradise Row when Roden had returned from the office. At first Mrs. Roden also had been there;--but
latterly she had spent her time altogether at Pegwell Bay. Nevertheless Lord Hampstead would
come, and would say a few words, and would then ride home again. When all was over at Pegwell
Bay, when the funeral was at hand, and during the few days of absolutely prostrating grief
which followed it, nothing was seen of him;--but on the evening before his friend's journey
down to Castle Hautboy he again appeared in the Row. On this occasion he walked over, and his
friend returned with him a part of the way. "You must do something with yourself," Roden said
to him.

"I see no need of doing anything special. How many men do nothing with themselves!"

"Men either work or play."

"I do not think I shall play much."

"Not for a time certainly. You used to play; but I can imagine that the power of doing so will
have deserted you."

"I shan't hunt, if you mean that."

"I do not mean that at all," said Roden;--"but that you should do something. There must be
some occupation, or life will be insupportable."

"It is insupportable," said the young man looking away, so that his countenance should not be seen.

"But it must be supported. Let the load be ever so heavy, it must be carried. You would not
destroy yourself?"

"No;"--said the other slowly; "no. I would not do that. If any one would do it for me!"

"No one will do it for you. Not to have some plan of active life, some defined labour by which
the weariness of the time may be conquered, would be a weakness and a cowardice next door to
that of suicide."

"Roden," said the lord, "your severity is brutal."

"The question is whether it be true. You shall call it what you like,--or call me what you
like; but can you contradict what I say? Do you not feel that it is your duty as a man to apply
what intellect you have, and what strength, to some purpose?"

Then, by degrees, Lord Hampstead did explain the purpose he had before him. He intended to
have a yacht built, and start alone, and cruise about the face of the world. He would take
books with him, and study the peoples and the countries which he visited.

"Alone?" asked Roden.

"Yes, alone;--as far as a man may be alone with a crew and a captain around him. I shall make
acquaintances as I go, and shall be able to bear them as such. They will know nothing of my
secret wound. Had I you with me,--you and my sister let us suppose,--or Vivian, or any one
from here who had known me, I could not even struggle to raise my head."

"It would wear off."

"I will go alone; and if occasion offers I will make fresh acquaintances. I will begin another
life which shall have no connection with the old one,--except that which will be continued
by the thread of my own memory. No one shall be near me who may even think of her name when
my own ways and manners are called in question." He went on to explain that he would set himself
to work at once. The ship must be built, and the crew collected, and the stores prepared. He
thought that in this way he might find employment for himself till the spring. In the spring,
if all was ready, he would start. Till that time came he would live at Hendon Hall,--still
alone. He so far relented, however, as to say that if his sister was married before he began
his wanderings he would be present at her marriage.

Early in the course of the evening he had explained to Roden that his father and he had conjointly
arranged to give Lady Frances £40,000 on her wedding. "Can that be necessary?" asked Roden.

"You must live; and as you have gone into a nest with the drones, you must live in some sort
as the drones do."

"I hope I shall never be a drone."

"You cannot touch pitch and not be defiled. You'll be expected to wear gloves and drink fine
wine,--or, at any rate, to give it to your friends. Your wife will have to ride in a coach.
If she don't people will point at her, and think she's a pauper, because she has a handle to
her name. They talk of the upper ten thousand. It is as hard to get out from among them as
it is to get in among them. Though you have been wonderfully stout about the Italian title,
you'll find that it will stick to you." Then it was explained that the money, which was to
be given, would in no wise interfere with the "darlings." Whatever was to be added to the fortune
which would naturally have belonged to Lady Frances, would come not from her father but from
her brother.

When Roden arrived at Castle Hautboy Lord Persiflage was there, though he remained but for
a day. He was due to be with the Queen for a month,--a duty which was evidently much to his
taste, though he affected to frown over it as a hardship. "I am sorry, Roden," he said, "that
I should be obliged to leave you and everybody else;--but a Government hack, you know, has
to be a Government hack." This was rather strong from a Secretary of State to a Clerk in the
Post Office; but Roden had to let it pass lest he should give an opening to some remark on
his own repudiated rank. "I shall be back before you are gone, I hope, and then perhaps we
may arrange something." The only thing that Roden wished to arrange was a day for his own wedding,
as to which, as far as he knew, Lord Persiflage could have nothing to say.

"I don't think you ought to be sorry," Lady Frances said to her lover as they were wandering
about on the mountains. He had endeavoured to explain to her that this large income which was
now promised to him rather impeded than assisted the scheme of life which he had suggested
to himself.

"Not sorry,--but disappointed, if you know the difference."

"Not exactly."

"I had wanted to feel that I should earn my wife's bread."

"So you shall. If a man works honestly for his living, I don't think he need inquire too curiously
what proportion of it may come from his own labour or from some other source. If I had had
nothing we should have done very well without the coach,--as poor Hampstead calls it. But if
the coach is there I don't see why we shouldn't ride in it."

"I should like to earn the coach too," said Roden.

"This, sir, will be a lesson serviceable in teaching you that you are not to be allowed to
have your own way in everything."

An additional leave of absence for a month had been accorded to Roden. He had already been
absent during a considerable time in the spring of the year, and in the ordinary course of
events would not have been entitled to this prolonged indulgence. But there were reasons deemed
to be sufficient. He was going to meet a Cabinet Minister. He was engaged to marry the daughter
of a Marquis. And it was known that he was not simply George Roden, but in truth the Duca di
Crinola. He had suffered some qualms of conscience as to the favour to be thus shown him, but
had quieted them by the idea that when a man is in love something special ought to be done
for him. He remained, therefore, till the Foreign Secretary returned from his royal service,
and had by that time fixed the period of his marriage. It was to take place in the cold comfortless
month of March. It would be a great thing, he had said, to have Hampstead present at it, and
it was Hampstead's intention to start on his long travels early in April. "I don't see why
people shouldn't be married in cold weather as well as in hot," said Vivian. "Brides need not
go about always in muslin."

When Lord Persiflage returned to Castle Hautboy, he had his plan ready arranged for relieving
his future half-nephew-in-law,--if there be such a relationship,--from the ignominy of the
Post Office. "I have Her Majesty's permission," he said to Roden, "to offer you the position
of Registrar of State Records to the Foreign Office."

"Registrar of State Records to the Foreign Office!"

"Fifteen hundred a year," said his lordship, going off at once to this one point of true vital
importance. "I am bound to say that I think I could have done better for you had you consented
to bear the title, which is as completely your own, as is that mine by which I am called."

"Don't let us go back to that, my lord."

"Oh no;--certainly not. Only this; if you could be brought to think better of it,--if Fanny
could be induced to make you think better of it,--the office now offered to you would, I think,
be more comfortable to you."

"How so?"

"I can hardly explain, but it would. There is no reason on earth why it should not be held
by an Italian. We had an Italian for many years librarian at the Museum. And as an Italian
you would of course be entitled to call yourself by your hereditary title."

"I shall never be other than an Englishman."

"Very well. One man may lead a horse to water, but a thousand cannot make him drink. I only
tell you what would be the case. The title would no doubt give a prestige to the new office.
It is exactly that kind of work which would fall readily into the hands of a foreigner of high
rank. One cannot explain these things, but it is so. The £1500 a year would more probably become
£2000 if you submitted to be called by your own proper name." Everybody knew that Lord Persiflage
understood the Civil Service of his country perfectly. He was a man who never worked very hard
himself, or expected those under him to do so; but he liked common sense, and hated scruples,
and he considered it to be a man's duty to take care of himself,--of himself first of all,
and then, perhaps, afterwards, of the Service.

Neither did Roden nor did Lady Frances give way a bit the more for this. They were persistent
in clinging to their old comparatively humble English name. Lady Frances would be Lady Frances
to the end, but she would be no more than Lady Frances Roden. And George Roden would be George
Roden, whether a clerk in the Post Office or Registrar of State Records to the Foreign Office.
So much the next new bride declared with great energy to the last new bride who had just returned
from her short wedding tour, having been hurried home so that her husband might be able to
lay the first stone of the new bridge to be built over the Menai Straits. Lady Llwddythlw,
with all the composed manners of a steady matron, was at Castle Hautboy, and used all her powers
of persuasion. "Never mind, my dear, what he says," Lady Llwddythlw urged. "What you should
think of is what will be good for him. He would be somebody,--almost as good as an Under Secretary
of State,--with a title. He would get to be considered among the big official swells. There
is so much in a name! Of course, you've got your rank. But you ought to insist on it for his sake."

Lady Frances did not give way in the least, nor did any one venture to call the Duca by his
title, formally or openly. But, as Lord Hampstead had said, "it stuck to him." The women when
they were alone with him would call him Duca, joking with him; and it was out of the question
that he should be angry with them for their jokes. He became aware that behind his back he
was always spoken of as The Duke, and that this was not done with any idea of laughing at him.
The people around him believed that he was a Duke and ought to be called a Duke. Of course
it was in joke that Lady Llwddythlw always called Lady Frances Duchessina when they were together,
because Lady Frances had certainly not as yet acquired her right to the name; but it all tended
to the same point. He became aware that the very servants around him understood it. They did
not call him "your grace" or "my Lord," or make spoken allusion to his rank; but they looked
it. All that obsequiousness due to an hereditary nobleman, which is dear to the domestic heart,
was paid to him. He found himself called upon by Lady Persiflage to go into the dining-room
out of his proper place. There was a fair excuse for this while the party was small, and confined
to few beyond the family, as it was expected that the two declared lovers should sit together.
But when this had been done with a larger party he expostulated with his hostess. "My dear
Mr. Roden," she said,--"I suppose I must call you so."

"It's my name at any rate."

"There are certain points on which, as far as I can see, a man may be allowed to have his way,--and
certain points on which he may not."

"As to his own name--"

"Yes; on the matter of your name. I do not see my way how to get the better of you just at
present, though on account of my near connection with Fanny I am very anxious to do so. But
as to the fact of your rank, there it is. Whenever I see you,--and I hope I shall see you very
often,--I shall always suppose that I see an Italian nobleman of the first class, and shall
treat you so." He shrugged his shoulders, feeling that he had nothing else to do. "If I were
to find myself in the society of some man calling himself by a title to which I knew that he
had no right,--I should probably call him by no name; but I should be very careful not to treat
him as a nobleman, knowing that he had no right to be so treated. What can I do in your case
but just reverse the position?"

He never went back to the Post Office,--of course. What should a Registrar of State Records
to the Foreign Office do in so humble an establishment? He never went back for the purposes
of work. He called to bid farewell to Sir Boreas, Mr. Jerningham, Crocker, and others with
whom he had served. "I did not think we should see much more of you," said Sir Boreas, laughing.

"I intended to live and die with you," said Roden.

