Even as he spoke a tall figure loomed out of the blizzard and raised his hat with cold formality.

"Your cousin is safe in the hospital at Interlaken," said Ralph, addressing Lord Tamerton with
marked constraint. "He has merely sustained a fractured patella. With your permission we will
now descend."

"What is the matter, Ralph?" cried Lady Margaret pleadingly; but, ignoring her question, he
busied himself in tying on the rope.

The descent which followed is still spoken of with bated breath by the Swiss guides, than whom
there is no more generous body of men in the world.

Unerringly Ralph led his companions through arêtes, glissades, bergschrunds, rücksacs, gendarmes,
vorwaerts, couloirs, aiguilles, never hesitating, never flinching from any obstacle, heedless,
it seemed, alike of the raging blizzard and the ever-thickening darkness. At times he was obliged
to carry the others one by one along razor edges of hard blue ice. At times he would cling
precariously by one hand to a projecting splinter of rock, while with the other he lowered
them all bodily into the depths of a crevasse, gripping his ice-axe meanwhile steadfastly between
his teeth. Once at least he was compelled to hang downwards by his toes while he hewed steps
beneath him in a perpendicular wall of ice. And through it all his face retained its stern
impassivity and he addressed no word to his exhausted companions.

At length the most wonderful feat in the history of climbing was finished, and the party, weary
but thankful, stood at the foot of the mountain.

The three guides fell on their knees before their rescuer, but he ignored them and turned his
cold, hard gaze upon Lady Margaret.

"You are now safe," he said icily. "My presence is no longer necessary. Take the third turning
on the left, the second on the right and the fifth on the left, and then ask again. Before
I leave I ought perhaps to congratulate you upon your approaching marriage to your--er--amiable
cousin;" and without waiting for a reply he was gone.

       *       *       *       *       *

Alone, Ralph Wonderson sat upon a rock and reflected that no food had passed his lips since
that hurried breakfast in the Fahrjoch Hut. Wearily he drew out a packet of sandwiches from
his pocket.

A moment later he was racing back to his former companions. In his day he had been half-mile
champion, but now he knocked a full minute off his previous best time.

He found the others as he had left them. Lady Margaret looked up with a glad cry as he flew
round the corner.

"Madge," he cried, waving the piece of newspaper which had been wrapped round his sandwiches,--"Madge,
you can't marry him!"

Lord Tamerton leaped forward with a white face. "What do you mean?" he hissed. "You are mad.
She must marry him, or the family is ruined."

"She can't marry him," repeated Ralph calmly. "Sir Ernest Scrivener alias Marmaduke Moorsdyke
is married already! Read this."

And he thrust the fragment of newspaper into Lord Tamerton's hand.

With a low cry of content Lady Margaret fell into her lover's arms. "Oh, my dear!" she murmured.

And as they stood clasped in a close embrace the clouds parted and far, far above them appeared
the beautiful white summit of the Wetterhorn shining dazzlingly in the sunlight.

       *       *       *       *       *

Illustration: "BUSINESS AS USUAL DURING ALTERATIONS."

       *       *       *       *       *

SPIT FOR SPAT.

Orator, in Hyde Park:--

    "An' when the German Ambassador left St. Petersburg 'e spat in the
    Russian Ambassador's face. An' the Russian Ambassador in Berlin 'e
    spat in the German Ambassador's face."

       *       *       *       *       *

IN ORDER OF MERIT?

    "Full reports of the Petersfield Gymkhana, Eastmeon Show, and
    Liphook Horticultural Exhibition and Sports, will be published in
    to-morrow's issue of the 'Hampshire Telegraph and Post,' which will
    contain also a complete record of news of the Great European
    War."--Portsmouth Evening News.

       *       *       *       *       *

The following letter was addressed to a Hong Kong chaplain by his orderly:--

    "Pleas sur excuse me this morning for I ham sitting for my examining
    asion at the peak schools for my certificate sur and I will be down
    as soon as possible sur to deliver the letters sur And if I ant
    there before you go away sur put the keys under the steeps sur."

We feel confident he passed all right.

       *       *       *       *       *

ON ACTIVE SERVICE.

Every August Bank Holiday we have a short Mixed Open Tournament at our lawn-tennis club. It's
quite a small, homely affair, but as our President, Sir Benjamin Boogles, always offers two
valuable prizes (hall-marked), every member who can possibly enter does so. Each year hitherto
the Tournament has been finished in the one day; but this year it is not finished yet--in fact,
in one instance the first game of the first set is still undecided, and the winners in the
other sets are anxiously awaiting the result in order that the second round may proceed before
the end of the season. As I am one of the actors--I might almost say the protagonist--in this
protracted drama, I will explain the position.

Wilbrooke, our crack player, who can easily give most of us forty and a bonus of five games
in the set, and still beat us, recently became engaged to Pattie Blobson, who is a hopeless
rabbit at the game, this being her first season. Not unnaturally she insisted on his entering
the Tournament with her. I always enter with Joan, and though we are neither of us exactly
rabbits it would be rather hard to find a zoological term that would fittingly describe our
standard of play. Of course there is no handicapping in "Opens," and Joan and I usually reckon
to be knocked out in the second round at latest, though we did once get into the third round
owing to one of our opponents, a doctor, being summoned to a case in the middle of play.

Now this year we both thought our tennis would be over for the day after the first quarter
of an hour, as we were drawn to play our first round against Wilbrooke and Pattie. However,
I won the toss, and to that fact the subsequent impasse may be attributed. I elected to serve
first, leaving Wilbrooke the choice of sides. The sun was not shining, so there was little
in it from the point of view of light; but the east end of the court is just a trifle higher
than the other, so he chose that.

I served first, and though I never peg them in to rabbits, I felt justified in sending down
a medium-paced ball in my partner's interests. It pitched correctly, broke (unintentionally)
and buried itself in Pattie's skirt.

Fifteen-love.

I banged my first ball to Wilbrooke with all my might. It fell within the Club precincts, but
that's the best I can urge for it. My second was an easy lob, which he smashed, and, in spite
of my efforts to give it a clear path, it caught me in the small of the back.

Fifteen-all.

My next serve to Pattie was a fault, which I followed up with an ordinary "donkey" drop, towards
which she rushed in the impetuous fashion characteristic of the genuine rabbit, with the result
that it bounced scathless over her head.

Thirty-fifteen.

I then got a fast ball over to Wilbrooke, but returning it was child's play to him, and he
drove it like lightning down the centre-line before I had time to call "Leave it to you, partner."

Thirty-all.

Again I served Pattie a fault. At the second attempt the ball performed Blondin tricks on the
wire of the net, and for one of those "moments big as years" I feared we had lost the game,
the service to Wilbrooke being a mere formality; but fortunately the ball fell the other side
of the net, and my third delivery Pattie tipped to the wicket-keeper.

Forty-thirty.

I now determined to send two--if necessary--fast ones to Wilbrooke on the chance that one might
shoot and be unplayable. But my first ball went into the net, and the locale of the second
can only be dimly surmised, for it went over the fence into the open country.

Deuce.

It was at this point that I began to realize that so long as I did not serve a double-fault
to Pattie, Wilbrooke could never win the game, and when we had played nine more deuces I communicated
the intelligence to Joan. Meanwhile, the other sets had all finished, and the players came
up to see why we were still hard at it. At the twenty-fourth deuce the Tournament secretary
remarked: "Last game, I suppose? Hurry up, we can't get on." I explained to him that this was
only the first game of the set, and that similar prolongations were likely to recur when my
partner served in the third game and I again in the fifth.

The news spread rapidly, and for a time we were the most unpopular quartet in the Club; but
by the time we had reached our eighty-third deuce, and luncheon (the gift of Lady Boggles)
was served, hunger and anger began to abate simultaneously, and the situation was discussed
with humour to the exclusion of all other topics. At the end of the morning's play I was certainly
feeling a trifle done up, but it says much for the recuperative properties of chicken galantine
and junket that after the interval I felt quite invigorated and good for service ad infinitum.
Efforts were made to induce us to toss for the set, but neither of us would consent to this,
Wilbrooke maintaining that under normal conditions I could not possibly win the game, and I
arguing that under existing conditions--with which I was more intimately concerned--I could
not possibly lose it, and therefore to toss would be a mockery. Thus there was no alternative
but to play on.

I suggested to Joan that as her presence on the court was not strictly essential she should
join in a friendly set with some of the other unemployed. But she would not hear of it. She
wanted to be in at the finish, if there was ever going to be a finish, she said; and so we
continued.

When we were summoned to tea (kindly provided gratis by Miss Vera Boogles) we had amassed 265
deuces, and though my right arm ached and my service was a trifle wobbly I was still scoring
the vantage point (and losing it at once) with the utmost regularity. But the temporary cessation
of hostilities, associated with about half-a-pound of Swiss roll and three Chelsea buns, served
to restore me, and after tea we went at it again until half-past seven, when, with the score
at 394 deuces, the net got tired and collapsed, and we adjourned.

We have since met on every available evening in our endeavours to bring the game to a conclusion;
but the score is still deuce, and at that it will probably remain unless one of the following
contingencies arises:--

(1) Pattie may improve so much with the constant practice that she will be able to return my
service; in which case it will settle the game, for wherever we put the ball Wilbrooke is bound
to get hold of it and drive or smash it so that we can't return it.

(2) I may serve Pattie a double-fault. But I am now in splendid training; my right biceps is
like a cricket-ball, and I feel that I could serve all day without tiring. Besides, the quality
of my service is improving, which counteracts, in a measure, the possible improvement in Pattie's
game.

(3) We may get a bright sunshiny evening, when the sun will be straight in Wilbrooke's eyes;
in which case, with my improved service, I may possibly get a fast ball over which he will
be unable to see.

Anyway, it is now certain that I belong to the Bulldog Breed.

       *       *       *       *       *

Sir ERNEST SHACKLETON as reported in The Evening News:--

    "The last articles which we took on board were two gramophones with
    a large number of records and a case of hyacinth blubs."

The last-named are often mistaken for spring onions by those who come too near with their lachrymal
nerves.

       *       *       *       *       *

Illustration: A SONG FOR THE HOLIDAYS.

    "WHERE MY CARAVAN HAS RESTED."

       *       *       *       *       *

OUR BOOKING-OFFICE.

(By Mr. Punch's Staff of Learned Clerks.)

As in the enervating luxury of peace, so in the stern stringency of war we have always a use,
and a good use too, for the humourist. But he must be a jester of the right sort; not bitter
nor flippant, not over boisterous nor too "intellectual." Humour for humour's sake is what
we want, and in these anxious hours something to make us laugh quietly and unhysterically,
if only by way of temporary relief. Mr. IAN HAY hits the mark about eight times in every ten
in A Knight on Wheels (HODDER AND STOUGHTON), which is not at all a bad proportion for three
hundred and nineteen pages. He has some delightful ideas, which, happily, he does not overwork:
a case in point is the brief but rapid career of Uncle Joseph, who employs the most criminal
methods in order to attain the most charitable ends. The story is a simple one--youth, laughter
and love; and the motor car plays an important but not a tiresome part in it. The author's
attitude towards women is slightly cynical but very lighthearted, and clearly he loves them
all the time: indeed, I think Mr. HAY, while alive to existing faults, loves everything and
everybody. In return most people will be prepared to love him. And he deserves to be loved
for the sake of a book which has a happy beginning, a happy middle and a happy end, together
with lots of incidental laughter.

       *       *       *       *       *

"There is a teacup storm in the Close, I hear. The Dean altered the time of closing the Minster
for summer cleaning or some such trifle, and did not consult the Chapter, which had already
made its holiday arrangements." This sentence, chosen at random from Quisquiliae, the diary
of Henry Savile, will do well enough to support my contention that Dr. Ashford and His Neighbours
(MURRAY) is going to be a great boon to the cathedral cities of our Midland shires. Under the
form of a narrative of social life in Sunningwell, Dr. WARRE CORNISH has elected to arrange
his views on religion, art, literature, politics and the questions of the day, sometimes putting
them into the mouths of his characters and sometimes into the note-book of the afore-mentioned
Henry Savile, a leisured cripple whose disquisitions on letters and on people are, if a trifle
rambling, at any rate delightfully critical and much more interesting and profound than certain
others which flow periodically from the windows of cloistered retreats. Mr. Henry Savile quotes
from the Classics perhaps a little too freely for the taste of a decadent age, and his friends,
Dr. Ashford, Lady Grace, the bishop's wife, Olive, her niece, and Philip Daly, nephew of an
archdeacon and parliamentary candidate for Sunningwell, would be a little more amusing if they
were treated in a more Trollopian manner, and did not so faithfully discuss the burning controversies
of the time. But, after all, the great excitement in Dr. Ashford and His Neighbours (and I
really cannot advise any resident in--shall we say Mercia?--to be without it) is the chance
it affords for such questions as: Who is the Dean? Does the author really mean Canon X? Are
we living in Sunningwell, or is it L----? Even I myself, in this metropolitan backwater, have
made one or two ingenious guesses, but wild taxicabs would not drag them from me.

       *       *       *       *       *

