The sudden and unlooked-for appearance of James Temple threw light upon a mystery. Further
explanation awaited me in the house from which the unfortunate man had rushed to meet instant
death and all its consequences. It will be remembered that, in the narrative of his victim,
mention is made of one Mrs Wybrow, with whom the poor girl, upon the loss of her father and
of all means of support, obtained a temporary home. It appeared that Fredrick Harrington, a
few months after his flight, returned secretly to the village, and, at the house of that benevolent
woman, made earnest application for his sister. He was then excited and half insane, speaking
extravagantly of his views and his intentions in respect of her he came to take away. "She
should be a duchess," he said, "and must take precedence of every lady in the land. He was
a king himself and could command it so. He could perform wonders, if he chose to use the power
with which he was invested; but he would wait until his sister might reap the benefit of his
acquired wealth." In this strain he continued, alarming the placid Mrs Wybrow, who knew not
what to do to moderate the wildness and the vehemence of his demeanour. Hoping, however, to
appease him, she told him of the good fortune of his sister--how she had obtained a happy home,
and how grateful he ought to be to Providence for its kind care of her. Much more she said,
only to increase the anger of the man, whose insane pride was roused to fury the moment that
he heard his sister was doomed to eat the bread of a dependent. He disdained the assistance
of Mrs Temple--swore it was an artifice, a cheat, and that he would drag her from the net into
which they had enticed her. When afterwards he learned that it was through the mediation of
James Temple that his sister had been provided for, the truth burst instantly upon him, and
he foresaw at once all that actually took place. He vowed that he would become himself the
avenger of his sister, and that he would not let her betrayer sleep until he had wrung from
him deep atonement for his crime. It was in vain that Mrs Wybrow sought to convince him of
his delusion. He would not be advised--he would not listen--he would not linger another moment
in the house, but quitted it, wrought to the highest pitch of rage, and speaking only of vengeance
on the seducer. He set out for London. Mrs Wybrow, agitated more than she had been at any time
since her birth, and herself almost deprived of reason by her fears for the safety of Miss
Harrington, James Temple, and the furious lunatic himself, wrote immediately to Emma, then
resident in Cambridge, explaining the sad condition of her brother, and warning her of his
approach--Emma having already (without acquainting Mrs Wybrow with her fallen state) forwarded
her address, with a strict injunction to her humble friend to convey to her all information
of her absent brother which she could possibly obtain. The threatened danger was communicated
to the lover--darkened his days for a time with anxiety and dread, but ceased as time wore
on, and as no visitant appeared to affect the easy tenor of his immoral life. The reader will
not have forgotten, perhaps, that when for the first time I beheld James Temple, he was accompanied
by an elder brother. It was from the latter, his friend and confidant, that the above particulars,
and those which follow in respect of the deceased, were gathered. The house in which, for a
second time, I encountered my ancient college friends, was their uncle's. Parents they had
none. Of father and of mother both they had been deprived in infancy; and, from that period,
their home had been with their relative and guardian. The conduct of one charge, at least,
had been from boyhood such as to cause the greatest pain to him who had assumed a parent's
cares. Hypocrisy, sensuality, and--for his years and social station--unparalleled dishonesty,
had characterised James Temple's short career. By some inexplicable tortuosity of mind, with
every natural endowment, with every acquired advantage, graced with the borrowed as well as
native ornaments of humanity, he found no joy in his inheritance, but sacrificed it all, and
crawled through life a gross and earthy man. The seduction of Emma, young as he was when he
committed that offence, was, by many, not the first crime for which--not, thank Heaven! without
some preparation for his trial--he was called suddenly to answer. As a boy, he had grown aged
is vice. It has been stated that he quitted the university the very instant he disencumbered
himself of the girl whom he had sacrificed. He crept to the metropolis, and for a time there
hid himself. But it was there that he was discovered by Frederick Harrington, who had pursued
the destroyer with a perseverance that was indomitable, and scoffed at disappointment. How
the lunatic existed no one knew; how he steered clear of transgression and restraint was equally
difficult to explain. It was evident enough that he made himself acquainted with the haunts
of his former schoolfellow; and, in one of them, he rushed furiously and unexpectedly upon
him, affrighting his intended victim, but failing in his purpose of vengeance by the very impetuosity
of his assault. Temple escaped. Then it was that the latter, shaken by fear, revealed to his
brother the rise of progress of his intimacy with the discarded girl, and, in his extremity,
called upon him for advice and help. He could afford him none; and the seducer found himself
in the world without an hour's happiness or quiet. What quails so readily as the heartiest
soul of the sensualist? Who so cowardly as the man only courageous in his oppression of the
weak? The spirit of Temple was laid prostrate. He walked, and eat, and slept, in base and dastard
fear. Locks and bolts could not secure him from dismal apprehensions. A sound shook him, as
the unseen wind makes the tall poplar shudder--a voice struck terror in his ear, and sickness
to recreant heart. He could not be alone--for alarm was heightened by the speaking conscience
that pronounced it just. He journeyed from place to place, his brother ever at his side, and
the shadow of the avenger ever stalking in the rear, and impelling the weary wanderer still
onward. The health of the sufferer gave way. To preserve his life, he was ordered to the south-western
coast. His faithful brother was his companion still. He had not received a week's benefit from
the mild and grateful climate--he was scarcely settled in the tranquil village in which they
had fixed their residence, before the old terror was made manifest, and hunted the unhappy
man away. Whilst sitting at his window, and gazing with something of delight upon the broad
and smooth blue sea--for who can look, criminal though he be, upon that glorious sheet in summer
time, when the sky is bright with beauty, and the golden sun is high, and not lose somewhat
of the heavy sense of guilt--not glow, it may be, with returning gush of childhood's innocence,
long absent, and coming now only to reproach and then depart?--whilst sitting there and thus,
the sick man's notice was invited to a crowd of yelling boys, who had amongst them one, the
tallest of their number, whom they dragged along for punishment or sport. He was an idiot.
Who he was none knew so well as the pale man that looked upon him, who could not drag his eye
away, so lost was it in wonder, so transfixed with horror. The invalid remained no longer there.
Fast as horses could convey him, he journeyed homeward; and, in the bosom of his natural protectors,
he sought for peace he could not gain elsewhere. Here he remained, the slave of fear, the conscience-stricken,
diseased in body--almost spent; and here he would have died, had not Providence directed the
impotent mind of the imbecile to the spot, and willed it otherwise. I have narrated, as shortly
as I might, the history of my earliest college friend, as I received it from his brother's
lips. There remain but a few words to say--the pleasantest that I have had to speak of him
James Temple did not die a hardened man. If there be truth in tears, in prayers of penitence
that fall from him who stand upon the borders of eternity--who can gain nothing by hypocrisy,
and may lose by it the priceless treasure of an immortal soul--if serenity and joy are signs
of a repentance spoken, a forgiveness felt, then Heaven had assuredly been merciful with the
culprit, and had remitted his offences, as Heaven can, and will, remit the vilest.

I remained in the village of Belton until I saw all that remained of the schoolfellows deposited
in the earth. Their bodies had been easily obtained--that of the idiot, indeed, before life
had quitted it. The evening that followed their burial, I passed with William Temple. Many
a sad reminiscence occurred to him which he communicated to me without reserve, many a wanton
act of coarse licentiousness, many a warning unheeded, laughed at, spurned. It is a mournful
pleasure for the mind, as it dwells upon the doings of the departed, to build up its own theories,
and to work out a history of what might have been in happier circumstances--a useless history
of ifs. "If my brother had been looked to when he was young," said William Temple more than
once, "he would have turned out differently. My uncle spoiled him. As a child, he was never
corrected. If he wished for a toy, he had but to scream for it. If, at school, he had been
fortunate enough to contract his friendships with young men of worth and character, their example
would have won him to rectitude, for he was always a lad easily led." And again, "If he had
but listened to the advice which, when it would have served him, I did not fail daily and hourly
to offer him, he might have lived for years, and been respected--for many know, I lost no opportunity
to draw him from his course of error." Alas! how vain, how idle was this talk--how little it
could help the clod that was already crumbling in the earth--the soul already at the judgment-seat;
yet with untiring earnestness the brother persisted in this strain, and with every new hypothesis
found fresh satisfaction. There was more reason for gratification when, at the close of the
evening, the surviving relative turned from his barren discourse and referred to the last days
of the deceased. There was comfort and consolation to the living in the evidences which he
produced of his most blessed change. It was a joy to me to hear of his repentance, and to listen
to the terms in which he made it known. I did not easily forget them. I journeyed homeward.
When I arrived at the house of Doctor Mayhew, I was surprised to find how little I could remember
of the country over which I had travelled. The scenes through which I had passed were forgotten--had
not been noticed. Absorbed by the thoughts which possessed my brain, I had suffered myself
to be carried forward, conscious of nothing but the waking dreams. I was prepared, however,
to see my friend. Still influenced by the latent hope of meeting once more with Miss Fairman,
still believing in the happy issue of my love, I had resolved to keep my own connexion with
the idiot as secret as the grave. There was no reason why I should betray myself. His fate
was independent of my act--my conduct formed no link in the chain which must be presented to
make the history clear: and shame would have withheld the gratuitous confession, had not the
ever present, never-dying promise forbade the disclosure of one convicting syllable. As may
be supposed, the surprise of Doctor Mayhew, upon hearing the narrative, was no less than the
regret which he experienced at the violent death of the poor creature in whom he had taken
so kind and deep an interest. But a few days sufficed to sustain his concern for one who had
come to him a stranger, and whom he had known so short a time. The pursuits and cares of life
gradually withdrew the incident from his mind, and all thoughts of the idiot. He ceased to
speak of him. To me, the last scene of his life was present for many a year. I could not remove
it. By day and night it came before my eyes, without one effort on my part to invoke it. It
has started up, suddenly and mysteriously, in the midst of enjoyment and serene delight, to
mingle bitterness in the cup of earthly bliss. It has come in the season of sorrow to heighten
the distress. Amongst men, and in the din of business, the vision has intruded, and in solitude
it has followed me to throw its shadows across the bright green fields, beautiful in their
freshness. Night after night--I cannot count their number--it has been the form and substance
of my dreams, and I have gone to rest--yes, for months--with the sure and natural expectation
of beholding the melancholy repetition of an act which I would have given any thing, and all
I had, to forget and drive away for ever.

