. . . The trumpeting ahead was fuller and nearer, distinctly nearer; almost as if they were
coming into it.  Then, without warning, the mighty mountain trees cut off the moon-lit sky.
It had been dark before--now it was utterly dark!

Suddenly the Gul Moti was aware of a strong earth-smell.  There was no stench about.  It had
a quality of incense made of tree-gums and sandalwood and perfume-barks, all together.  Then
a dull thudding caught her ear--almost rhythmic.

. . . The earth-smells deepened and the thudding thickened.  Mitha Baba was not climbing any
more; moving smoothly, on what felt like firm soil, she seemed to turn and turn again.  It
was fathoms deep in rayless night--the place that never knew the light of day!

Carlin clung tight to Mitha Baba's neck and remembered everything actual, everything definite,
everything sound and sensible she knew.  The earth-smells filled her nostrils, her lungs, her
blood; tree-gums, sandal-wood, perfume-bark, body-warmth--charging the air.

And over all--wild, and wistful, and pulsing-tender--the weaving of Mitha Baba's enchantment
through the dark.

The thudding all about her on the ground--must be the sound of many wild feet!  This must be--the
"toiling in."

. . . A rending, tearing noise broke in on Mitha Baba's voice; and at once a great crash among
the trees, high up.  (Someone had torn a sapling from its place and flung it far.)

. . . The keen squeal of a very little elephant--right near--and the angry protest of a strange
voice.  (Some mother's baby had been pinched, in the crowd!)

. . . It must be imagination--this strong nearness!  The Gul Moti, putting out her hand, touched--skin!
And within the same breath, on both sides of Mitha Baba--first this side and then that side--two
great elephants challenged each other.  They were both long, rocking blasts, a little above
and almost against the Gul Moti's quickened ears.  She shivered under the shock.

Mitha Baba, without breaking her step, backed away from between them; and the impact of frightful
blow meeting frightful blow, bruised through the outbreak of much trumpeting.

As Mitha Baba went further and further from the fighters, the Gul Moti was amazed at the sounds
of their meeting--like explosions.  She remembered their tonnage; and recalled having heard
that an elephant fight is not the sort of thing civilised men call sport.

. . . A soft, feeling thing crept from the Gul Moti's shoulder along down her back!  With convulsive
fingers she clung tighter to Mitha Baba's neck.  Instantly Mitha Baba turned a bit, driving
sidewise at the stranger with her head.  The Gul Moti's confidence in the great female's intention
to protect her, was established!

At last, lifting her head sharply to utter a different call, Mitha Baba developed a peculiar
drive in her motion; a queer drive in the whole huge body that had something to do with a wide
swinging of the head.  It made them both touch the strange elephants, every few minutes; and
always there was a storm of trumpeting all about.  Gradually these outbreaks began to sound
toward one side; but the direction kept changing--so the Gul Moti made out that Mitha Baba
was moving round and round on the outside of the mass.

After a while they came again into the vicinity where the big males were still fighting.  Mitha
Baba rocked on her feet a moment, calling a curious low call--a question, softly spoken.  At
once there was the sound of rapid movement in front.  Then Mitha Baba literally whirled--plunging
away at incredible speed--almost exactly in the opposite direction from the one she had been
facing.

Doctor Carlin Deal Hantee tried to remember Skag--tried to remember her own name.  She locked
herself about that neck with her strength--she clung with her might.  She flattened her body
and gripped with her fingers and with her toes--long since having kicked off her low shoes.
Away and away they went, coming out into the moonlight--long enough to see a mass of dun shadows
rising and falling, lurching and rolling, on all sides.  Surely the Gul Moti had known that
this was a wild elephant herd--these hours.  Surely the Gul Moti had heard the "toiling" of
them in!  But what was Mitha Baba going to do with them--now that she had them?

Down the long slopes and up the steep inclines--the two big elephants close on either side
of Mitha Baba--plunging into khuds and out again--most of the time up-ended, one way or the
other, at astounding angles--the wild herd raced with Mitha Baba toward whatever destination
she might choose.

Dawn broke upon them while they were still in the very rugged hills; and as the mountain outlines
cleared of mist, the Gul Moti saw that Mitha Baba was leading her catch straight away back
to Hurda.  True to her training--there being no trap-stockades near--the toiler was taking
them home!  The situation was absurd; but it roused the Gul Moti--like one out of a dream--to
actual joy.

Through grey avenues of forest trees--rolling down khuds, ringing up crags--the voice of Nut
Kut went on out beyond the mountain peaks, to meet approaching day.  Nut Kut, who had already
made his reputation as the most deadly fighter known to the mahouts, was exulting in strength.
It was his joy-song.  It came from straight ahead.  Mitha Baba answered with a rollicking squeal.
But the wild herd voices were savage--chaotic.  Now Nut Kut's challenge came back--looming.
The situation was no longer absurd.

It meant a fight--an open fight--between the wild herd and the caravan. The wild herd would
never give Mitha Baba over to her own--they would surely fight to keep her.  Everything tightened
in the Gul Moti and locked--hard.  She had known most of the caravan elephants all her life--what
would happen to them?  They had lived among men these many and many years--never permitted
to fight--they could not be equally fighting-fit.  The herd would be much leaner--it must be
much tougher. So she bruised her head and her heart between the things that were due to happen
to her caravan--horrible punishments and almost certain deaths.

When the caravan appeared, the males were leading; the four females well in the rear.  Nut
Kut's flaming orange and imperial-blue trappings covered and cumbered him; and young Gunpat
Rao's gorgeous saffron and old-rose burned through the Gul Moti's eyes to the hard lump in
her throat--it was the one time in their lives when they should be free.

At once the wild females gathered their youngsters--and some who seemed almost mature--cutting
them out from the herd and driving them back. This revealed the wild fighters--many more in
number than those of the caravan.  The approaching challenges, from both sides, were thundering
thick and fast now.  The two bodies of elephants were plunging down the opposite sides of a
deep khud and would meet in the broad bottom.  Mitha Baba--the big males on each side of her--was
setting the pace for this side, as if everything depended on time.  But when they were quite
close, she rushed ahead--straight through the caravan and beyond.

Mitha Baba had been leading her catch to her own stockades--being in no wise responsible that
they were not trap-stockades!  Now, the home elephants having come to receive it, she had rushed
it in--exactly as she would have rushed it into a trap.  But Mitha Baba was not satisfied.
With a curious little call she wheeled, coming back to face the wild herd from her own side.

It was a turmoil that looked and sounded like nothing imaginable.  The fighting pairs were
choosing each other and taking place.  They had plenty of room.  When it was settled between
them, Nut Kut was facing the most powerful-looking of the wild fighters; and Gunpat Rao, another
who looked almost as dangerous.  The extra males of the wild herd--every one formidable--were
skirmishing about, watching for a chance to interfere. It looked bad for the caravan.

The mahouts--the Gul Moti had scarcely remembered them till now--were calling back and forth
about a bad one, a "tricky elephant."  Following their gestures, she saw a pale shape moving
around in the open.  They left no doubt that he represented the worst of all danger.  They
were charging each other to watch him--never mind what.

. . . The fight was on.  Plainly--in every tone, every action--the wild went in with wild enthusiasm,
the tame with grave determination.  Mitha Baba, having come in closer than any of the other
females, did not move,--save for a constant turning of her head under the Gul Moti's icy fingers--seeming
to keep an eye on all the separate fights at once.

Her fear for the caravan elephants was anguish, her fatigue extreme; but excitement held the
Gul Moti in a vise.  She saw the fighters meet, skull to skull.  (Those were the frightful
blows she had heard in the dark, through the trumpeting of a whole herd!)  How could any living
thing endure the impact of such weight?  She looked to see the skin break away and fall apart
at once.  She expected to see an elephant's head split open.  It was nerve-wrecking--an arena
of giant violence.

"Pray the gods to send Neela Deo!" one of the mahouts shouted.

"Pray the gods to send Neela Deo!" others called back.

The Gul Moti knew that Neela Deo did not fight; that it was his leadership they needed.  Soon
she heard a muffled cry from the same mahout:

"Men of the Hills, mourn with me!"

(A low wind of tone replied.)

His elephant seemed slower than the one against him; slower in getting back--in coming on.
. . .  Now he was wavering--shaken through his whole bulk by every meeting. . . .  He was not
running--he was dazed--he was down!  Staring wide-eyed at the horror--the way a barbarian elephant
kills--the Gul Moti was glad Skag did not see! . . .  The mahout had managed to reach a tree
in time to save his own life and was crouching on a branch, with his head buried in his arms.

Nut Kut was finishing with the leader of the wild herd--more mercifully than the wild was of
doing it--when two of the extras charged him together.  Ram Yaksahn, his mahout--whose voice
had not been heard before--cried out; and Mitha Baba went in like a thunder-bolt.  How it happened
no one could tell, but one of the wild elephants--before Mitha Baba's rush, or in the instant
when she reached him--caught his tusk under Nut Kut's side-bands.  They were made of heavy
canvas, with chains on top.  As Mitha Baba drove at him and Nut Kut turned--his tusk ripped
out sidewise.  With a frantic scream he got away, running up into the jungle--still screaming
so far as they could hear.

The Gul Moti, numb with weariness, had held on with her last ounce of strength.  Now she sat
amazed at her escape--while a tumult of trumpeting shattered the air about her.  There was
disturbance among the fighting pairs; some staying with each other, some changing--running
to and fro--charging at odd angles.  But when the confusion cleared--more fresh ones had come in!

Now Nut Kut was a whirl-wind--he was unbelievable.  One broke away from him and ran--demoralised.
One died--fairly defeated.  Still others came to meet him; yet his challenges were triumphant
to the point of frenzy.

"Call on the gods!  The devil is in!" rang out.

Gunpat Rao was now fighting for his life.  The "tricky elephant" had charged him from the open.
This was the bad one whom the mahouts had recognised on sight--had feared from the beginning.
Gunpat Rao was one of the finest young elephants in captivity; one of the swiftest in the caravan;
but the mahouts knew he could not think a trick!  The sense of his danger swept them.

The Gul Moti knew that "white elephants" are always feared--being almost always bad.  This
one was not white; nor grey, nor yellow.  He was whitish-grey--dull-tawny overcast--unclean
looking.  He was larger in frame than Gunpat Rao; but very lean--long, loose-jointed.  He moved
like a suckling trying to caper.  But there was a rakish look about him.

In spite of all their own stress--every one of their elephants being in some degree of jeopardy--the
mahouts gave as much attention to Gunpat Rao as they could.  It was foregone conclusion--he
was doomed.  Bracing themselves to witness his defeat, expecting to see his bitter death in
the end, yet the bad one's method at the start maddened them beyond control.

"He was bred in the Pit!" one mahout called.

"His father was Depravity!" another called back.

And they cursed him with the curses of the Hills.

Chakkra, who was Gunpat Rao's mahout, was a plucky little man; but his face had gone old.

The pale one's behaviour was entirely different from any the Gul Moti had seen.  He was doing
nothing regular--not using the common methods at all. He was giving Gunpat Rao no chance to
get back--to put his body-weight into his drive.  He was staying too close.  He was circling--starting
to rush in and veering away--round and round, in and out.  Then the Gul Moti saw!  He was manoeuvring
to strike Gunpat Rao back of his ear!  He was trying to "hit below the belt!"

So Gunpat Rao was kept pivoting in his own tracks to face the danger, with scant room to meet
a rush when it came.  And always it came when least suggested by the other's manner.  Then
the pale one squealed--a succession of thin, cutting tones--and Gunpat Rao answered with a
charge. The pale one raced away from him, wheeling suddenly and coming in behind his head.
(An instant before, it looked as if they would meet fairly.) But Gunpat Rao, being in full
drive and not on guard against such a manoeuvre, could not stop quickly; yet he swerved just
enough to clear that yellow tusk--with a long slash in his flank! . . .  Gunpat Rao began to
show that he was baffled.  His trunk came around--feeling of Chakkra!

"He wants Neela Deo!  His heart is alone!" Chakkra cried out.

"Pray the gods to send Neela Deo!" the mahouts answered together.

And from the khud-wall behind them, a thundering challenge rolled down. It was like an avalanche
of dynamic power.

Now the elephants of the Chief Commissioner's stockades gave account of themselves.  Youth
had returned to them--courage had been restored.  They clamoured to heaven that they were doing
well.  They shouted to the universe that they belonged to him--to Neela Deo, their King!

Sanford Hantee scarcely saw--an impossible thing--Carlin on Mitha Baba's neck!  Her face was
actually strange--the awful pallor--the fire.  It left his brain a blank to other impressions,
for minutes.

The Gul Moti only glimpsed the stone-white face of her American, beside the Chief Commissioner,
as Neela Deo charged past, on his way to take over the fight that was taxing Gunpat Rao to
the last breath before defeat.  Neela Deo had seen at once where he was needed most.  He went
in with a charging challenge that was intoxication to those who heard--all the assurance of
ancient mastership in it.

No one had ever seen Neela Deo fight before.  Kudrat Sharif was so astonished that he barely
got back from his neck in time to be out of the way.  The mahouts were amazed--Neela Deo did
not fight!  Neela Deo was the Lord of peaceful rule!

Many of the fighting pairs broke away from each other, when they heard Neela Deo's charging
challenge, as if agreeing that the destiny of all hung on the issue of his contest.  This left
most of the mahouts free to watch.  With passionate distress they saw the King--wounded almost
to death less than four months since--carrying a heavy howdah and three men--going in to fight
with a bad elephant who was all but fresh.  They cursed the wild elephant with every inward
breath, seeing as little hope for Neela Deo as they had seen for Gunpat Rao.

The Gul Moti watched--appalled.  It seemed to her that the pale one had been playing--before
he engaged with Neela Deo.  But he did not play any more.  He manoeuvred so fast that his body
appeared to glance in and out. But Neela Deo foiled him with still greater speed.  Her eye
could not follow all--the maze, the glamour, the incredible spectacle.

Neela Deo's first blow had shaken the pale one, carrying a different dimension of force from
any in himself.  He gave way--backing from it with an angry scream, showing surprise and rage
in every movement.  When he circled round, trying to get in on Neela Deo's side, the King was
too quick for him--forcing him out, forcing him further out; not permitting him to follow his
chosen course, whatever direction he took.  He came in with his peculiar art of approaches--the
jarring blow was there!  He played all his lightning feints--the shock that rocked him was
a flash quicker!  Neela Deo met him squarely, whatever curve he made--whatever tangent he turned
upon.  This, every time, in spite of himself; for he always meant to avoid that crash!

He tried his falsetto squeals--all aggravation in them.  But Neela Deo refused to accept taunts.
This caused an instant's pause--the pale one seeming to consider.  Then he raced away and came
back on a full drive, as if meaning to meet the King in a legitimate encounter--after all.
But Neela Deo only lowered his head a fraction, leaning a bit forward; and the pale one, instead
of finishing straight, or passing alongside close enough to strike--swerved out.  This was
the moment when Neela Deo charged him and he ran, dodging--far beyond the range of the fighting
arena--down the khud valley.  Everyone followed; the wild elephants running by themselves--screaming
in harsh tones; the caravan--trumpeting in clear, full tones; the mahouts, calling the name
of the King--beside themselves with delight.

But Neela Deo was at the pale one's heels--his tusks not dangerous, having been shortened and
banded.  Yet they were sharp enough to make the pale one turn and defend himself.  And desperately
he fought, using every faculty of his nature--every value of his wild fitness.  Still the crook
in him showed.  It was all faster now than in the beginning, but he was not exhausted, he was
not broken; only a bit less certain, a breath less quick, when he tried the same old trick--to
get in back of Neela Deo's ear.  And it was on that false turn that Neela Deo caught him fairly
in the throat--caught him and finished him in one thrust--with the blunt point of a banded
tusk.  (That was the miracle of it all--the banded tusk!)

Then Neela Deo stood back, put up his trunk and uttered a long, strong blast.  They were ringing
tones--mounting clarion tones, with tremendous volume at the top.  They were the King's proclamation
of victory.

The mahouts answered him in High Himalayan voices--full of unleashed devotion.  The caravan
made announcement of that allegiance the heart of an elephant gives--sometimes.  But the wild
herd broke away and ran shrieking up into the Vindha Hills.

Coming down from Mitha Baba's neck between Skag's hands, the Gul Moti smiled into his anguished
eyes.

"Carlin!  Are you--safe?" he asked.

"Safe--now!" she answered.

The tone of that low "now" startled him.

"Where have you been?" he breathed.

"Far--" she said, "very far!"

"But where?" he questioned.

"It was not in our world, Skag," she said.  "It was--dark!"

The Chief Commissioner had come close, to hear; was stroking her shoulder, in fact--in an absent-minded
way--shaking his head.

"You can't mean--the dark?" he broke in.

"I mean it was utterly dark, sir," she said.  "It was absolutely dark!"

"But--I'm not able to understand!" her old friend protested.

"It was there Mitha Baba found them," the Gul Moti explained.  "It was there she did the 'toiling
in.'  Then, she was leading them home to Hurda, when we met the caravan--at dawn."

Some of the mahouts had gathered about.  The Chief Commissioner spoke to them in their speech
and they answered him--calling others.  Soon the men of High Himalaya drew near with grave
deference, slowly stooping to touch the ground at her feet.

"No human has ever been in that before," said Kudrat Sharif.  "We will prepare rest for her--Chosen-of-Vishnu,
the Great Preserver!"

It was after they had cared for the Gul Moti with the best they had--water from a mountain
stream and food Neela Deo had carried, in a shelter made of tender deodar tips, where she now
slept on a bed made of the same--that the mahouts told the Chief Commissioner and Skag, all
they themselves had seen.

By this time concern had spread from Hurda throughout the country.  Neela Deo had gone out
to find the Gul Moti, carrying the Chief Commissioner and Son of Power.  No one had come back.
Calamity must have fallen.  Men went out on horses to trace them.  But it was certain priests
of Hanuman who found the caravan first.  (The Gul Moti having saved the life of a monkey king
once, her safety was their concern also.)  Without being seen or heard themselves, they went
close enough to learn that she was making recovery from great exhaustion; and that the mahouts
were caring for an elephant unable to travel by reason of a bad wound.  They overheard talk
of strange happenings; but more about Neela Deo's undreamed-of achievement.

Before any of the searchers from Hurda reached the caravan, mysterious gifts of provisions--much
needed--were found by the mahouts, with a crude writing beside them: "For the Healer-without-fear."
And those same priests of Hanuman--preparing a signal-system as they came--brought the good
word back to the anxious people, who became joyous at once.  Their Gul Moti was safe!  Neela
Deo was safe--everyone was safe.  (But that was a strange saying--that Neela Deo had fought!)

Bonfires blazed up in every village within sight of the caravan's way home--from so far away
as watchers on Hurda's highest hill could see--burning night and day.  At last the one furthest
from Hurda went out.  The watchers raced in--Neela Deo's caravan was coming!  One by one, the
bonfires went out--till it was this side the Nerbudda.  Then the people made ready.

They thronged out the great Highway-of-all-India, meeting the caravan where the slow-moving
elephants turned in from open jungle.  Eagerly striving to see the Gul Moti's face, eagerly
pointing at Neela Deo, yet it was a stranger silent multitude.  Only many tears on many tears
showed their feeling.

The Gul Moti sat in Neela Deo's howdah, with the Chief Commissioner and Son-of-Power.  Two
men came close, carrying a long slender shape covered with pure white cloth--dripping wet.

"We be poor men," one said, "but our hands bring to thee, oh Healer--from the people of Hurda,
oh Healer--" and breaking off, because his lips could speak no more, he stooped reverently
to lay aside the covering.

A great folded leaf appeared; a long heavy stalk; then the flawless splendour of one bloom--immaculate!
a sacred lotus, brought from far lakes.  The Gul Moti received its ineffable loveliness and
rose to stretch her fingers toward the multitude.  Then their shouts swept the horizon.

Still, their concept of Neela Deo's character must be either shattered or restored--and soon;
they would not wait.  Ominously quiet questions went up to the mahouts; and the mahouts were
full-ready to answer!  In the end, it sounded like a wild Himalayan chant about Neela Deo's
great fight to save Gunpat Rao.  The people listened patiently, till an inward meaning enlightened
them.  Then they exulted:

"Neela Deo, Neela Deo, King of all elephants!"

"Exalted in majesty, Defender of honour, protecting his own with strength!  We will remember him!"

"Neela Deo, Neela Deo, King of all elephants!"

"He with the wisdom of ages.  Destroyer of devastators, preserving his friend with blood! 
Our children shall not forget!"

"He the Discerner of men, Equitable King!  He the Discerner of evil, Invincible King!  All
generations after us shall hear of him; but we have looked upon his face!"

"Neela Deo, Neela Deo, King of all elephants!"

CHAPTER XV

The Lair

Carlin appeared to get right again in a few days of quiet after her terrific experience on
Mitha Baba.  There were a few more wonderful weeks for Skag and herself in the Malcolm M'Cord
bungalow in Hurda--weeks always remembered.  Then Skag undertook a little adventure of his
own that had to do with Tiger.  He was away seven days in all and made no report of the thing
he had done to his department.  He came back with a deeper quiet in his eyes and told no one
but Carlin what the days had shown him.  Skag never was at his best in trying to make words
work.  He was slow to explain.  He had been hurt two or three times in earlier days, trying
to tell something of peculiar interest to his work and finding incredulity and uncertain comment
afterward.  This made the animal trainer more wary than ever about talk.

But Carlin required few words.  Carlin always understood.  She didn't praise or fall into excesses
of admiration, but she understood, and the older one gets the dearer that becomes.  Carlin
didn't advise with Skag whether she should speak of the matter.  She merely decided that her
old friend, Malcolm M'Cord, Hand-of-a-God, deserved to be told.  The silent Scot knew much
about animals and this was an affair that would stand high in his collection of musings and
memories.  M'Cord observed, in a Scotch that had suffered no thinning in thirty years of India,
that if he hadn't known Hantee Sahib he would be forced to pass by Carlin's report as an invention,
though a "fertile" one.  It was M'Cord who decided that Government should get at least a private
account of the affair.

A remarkable tiger pair had operated for several years in the broken cliff country stretching
away toward the valley of the Nerbudda beyond the open jungle round Hurda.  As mates they had
pulled together so efficiently that the natives had started the interminable process of making
a tradition concerning them.  These were superb young individuals and not man-eaters, for which
reason Hand-of-a-God had not been called out to deliver the natives; also on this account Skag
had been interested from the beginning.

Their lair had never been found, but they had been seen together and singly over a ranging
ground that covered seventy miles and contained several dejected villages.  Once, hard pressed
for game, the male tiger had entered a village grazing ground and made a quick kill--on the
run--of one of the little sacred cows--a tan heifer much loved by the people.  The point of
comment was that the tiger had spared the boy; in fact, the young herder had been unable to
run so rapidly as his little drove, which was lost in a dust cloud ahead of him.  The tiger
had actually passed him by, entered the drove, knocked the heifer down and stood over it as
the boy circled past.

There were no firearms in the village, so that the natives did not venture close in the falling
darkness.  It was evident next day, however, that the tiger had not fed on the spot of the
kill.  It was supposed that the female had come to help him carry away the game.

Also, this was the same tiger pair that had leaped an eight-foot wall surrounding another village,
made their choice of a sizable bullock in a herd of ordinary cattle, and actually helped each
other drag the carcass over the wall and away--a daylight raid, this, witnessed from the shadows
of several village huts.

So the stories went, but nothing monotonous about them.  Often for months at a time no villager
would sight the tiger mates.  It was positively stated that there were no other mature tigers
within the vicinity: that is, within the seventy-miles range.  The pair had been known to bring
up at least three litters; but the young had been driven at the approach of maturity to outlying
hunting grounds, as had been all the weaker tigers of the vicinity.

Now the report came into Hurda that an English hunter had wounded the big female.  Another
report followed that the Englishman had killed the male and wounded the female.  The hunter
himself did not appear in Hurda; nor was a trophy hide recorded anywhere.  Skag heard the two
stories.  Thinking over the affair, he called Nels for a stroll in the open jungle toward the
Monkey Glen.

To the American there was a pang about the hunter's story.  He was altogether unsentimental,
but wild animals had to do with his reason for being and there was his fixed partiality for
tigers.  The uncertainty about the story troubled him.  This was the time of year for kittens
and it was seldom far from his mind that these parents were not man-eaters.  The stories of
the hunter were indefinite.  The thing worked upon Skag as he walked.  The thought of finding
the motherless lair and bringing in a hamper of starving young occurred to him as a sane performance,
but not one to speak about.  Also his servant, Bhanah, reported Nels superbly fit for travel
and adventure.

The animal trainer rode the elephant, Nut Kut, into one of the villages in the tiger-ranging
grounds and left him in charge of the mahout, saying that he might be gone two or three days
and that he was out for a ramble among the waste places of the valley.  Skag took merely a
haversack, a canteen, light blanket and a hunting belt, carrying a knife and a six-shooter
but no rifle.  Nels actually lost his dignity in enthusiasm for the excursion, and they were
miles away from a village and hours deep in an apparently leisurely journey before he subsided
into that observant calm which was his notable characteristic.

This light travelling, with none other than the great hunting dog, brought him back a keen
zest of appreciation and memories of early days among the circus animals, and his first adventures
in India with Cadman.  Moreover, there was a fresh mystery that had to do with Carlin after
Skag's first supper fire afield.  He had always resented the fact that it was straight out-and-out
pain for him to be away from the place she had made in Hurda.  Suffering of any kind to Skag
was a sign of weakness.  He had dwelt long on the subject.

The mystery of that first night out had to do with the fact that Carlin seemed to be near.
He had known something of this before, a flash at least, but nothing like this.  There wasn't
the pain about separation he had known aforetime.  It was as if the miracle he had longed for
had come--some awakening of life within himself that was quick to her presence even at a distance
and cognisant that absence was illusion. Carlin's uncle, the mystic of the Vindhas, had told
him that there were mysteries of romance that had to do with separation as well as with together,
and that real mates learn this mystery through the years. To-night Skag found to his wonder
that the mystic had spoken the truth.

He cooked the supper joyously and shared it with Nels, talking to him often and answering himself
for the Dane.  The camp was in the open and the night was presently lustrous with stars.  There
was a sense of well-being, together with his fresh delight in the unfolding secret of Carlin's
nearness, that made him enjoy staying awake.  Nels was wakeful also--as if these moments were
altogether too keen with life to waste in sleep.

"It's just a ramble, old man.  We'll be about it early," Skag said toward the last.  "We may
find what we're after and we may not.  In any case we'll live on the way."

That was Skag's old picture of the Now; making the most of the ever-moving point named the Present.

"And I'm expecting great things from you, my son--an altogether new brand of self-control--if
we find what we're out after.  I don't mind telling you that it's Tiger, Nels--tiger babies
possibly--little orphans just grown enough to be demons and just knowing enough not to behave."

Nels woofed.

"Half-grown tiger cubs are apt to be a whole lot meaner than their parents," Skag went on.
"Wild--that's the word.  They haven't sense enough to be careful or mind enough to be appealed
to.  I think that's something of what I mean to say."

Skag was taking more pains to explain than he would to a man.  Nels didn't get it--didn't even
make a pretense.  He knew what Tiger meant, but so far as he was concerned that subject had
been dropped some moments since.  He had listened intently to the point in which Tiger ceased
to be the topic--sitting on his haunches.  Then he dropped to his front elbows, and as Skag's
voice trailed away he rolled quietly to his side, keeping himself courteously awake.

There was silence.  Skag's eyes were far off among the blazing Indian stars.

"We'll manage 'em together," he added sleepily.  The next day they wandered--rough desolate
country in burning sunlight.  It gave the impression that the whole surface crust of earth
had been burned to a white heat ages ago.  Low hills with clifflike faces; shallow nullahs
used only a month or two a year to carry the monsoon deluges to the Nerbudda; the stones of
the river bottoms bone-white--everywhere sparse and scrubby foliage with dust-covered leaves.
There was no turf in this stony world except the sand of the hollows and the wind eddied most
of these spaces like water, quickly covering all tracks.  It was toward the end of the afternoon
that Nels first intimated a scent.

Tiger of course--that was Nels' orders--but it wasn't fresh.  Skag gave the Dane word to do
the best he could and followed leisurely.  The big fellow worked with painful care for more
than an hour before he became sure of himself; then his speed quickened, following a dry nullah
at last, for several miles.  The dark was creeping in before they came to a deep fissure among
the rocks where the empty waterway sunk into a pool which was not yet dry.  Skag and the Dane
drank deep; then the man filled his canteen, with the remark:

"We'll camp a little back, not to obstruct the water hole.  All trails end here.  To-morrow
morning we'll get fresh tiger scent if we're in luck.  But I wonder what we're trailing?"

It was a fact of long establishment among the villages that only the one mated pair worked
this section of the country.  According to one of the stories of the English hunter, the male
tiger had been killed and the female wounded--in which case what was this?  Certainly there
was nothing to indicate that the scent was left by a wounded tiger.  Others might have doubted
Nels' discrimination, but Skag scouted that in his own mind.  The Dane knew Tiger.  It was
as distinct and individual to him from the other big cats as the voices of friends one from
another.

Nels was said to have met Tiger in battle before he came to Skag, but it was no purpose of
his present master to give him a chance now.  It was established that several of the great
Indian hunting dogs had survived such meetings.  Malcolm M'Cord declared that a veteran in
the cheetah game would show himself master in any ordinary tiger affair.

They were tired and sun drained.  Skag laid down his blankets in the early dusk and there were
hours of sleep before he was awakened by the different activities at the water hole.  Nels
apparently had been awake for some time, studying the separate noises in a moveless calm. 
Skag touched his chest affectionately.  A panther or some smaller cat had just made a kill
among the rocks above the pool, yet Nels' hackles had not lifted in answer to the bawl of the
stricken beast.

"Spotted deer possibly," Skag muttered.  Then he added to the Dane:

"You're an all-right chap to camp with, son.  You'd sit it out alone until they brought the
fracas to our doorstep rather than disturb a friend's sleep.  That's what I call being a white
man."

Skag always thought of Cadman as the unparallelled comrade for field work.  In fact, he had
learned many of the little niceties of the open from the much-travelled American artist and
writer--finished performances of comradeship, a regard for the unwritten things, reverence
for those rights which never could be brought to the point of words, but which give delicacy
and delectation to hours together between men.  Skag never ceased to delight in the silence
and self-control of the Dane.  The dog rippled and thrilled with all the fundamental elements
of friendship and fidelity, but his big body seemed able to contain them with a dignity that
endeared him to the one who understood.  Bhanah's work in the training of this fellow was nothing
short of consummate art.

Breakfasting together, Skag refreshed Nels' mind with the work of the day--that it meant Tiger,
that all lesser affairs might come and go. The big fellow was up and eager to be off, before
Skag finished strapping his blanket roll.  There was rather a memorable moment of sentiency
just there.  Skag was on one knee as he glanced into Nels' face.  His own powers were highly
awake that minute, so that he actually sensed what was in the dog's mind--that they must go
down to the pool for a look before moving on.  The thing was verified a moment later when Nels
led the way down into the dim ravine to the margin of the water.

Tiger tracks--full four feet on the soft black margin of the pool--a huge beast, unmarked by
any toe scar or eccentricity.  Long body, heavy, a perfect thing of his kind.  It was as if
the tiger had stood some moments listening.  Yet the natives declared that only the mated pair
operated in this range and the hunter was said to have killed the male.  If these were the
tracks of the tigress she certainly was not badly hurt.  There wasn't the overpressure of a
single pad to indicate her favouring a muscle anywhere.  And this couldn't have been the track
of anything but a mature beast--the finished print of a perfect specimen.

"That hunter didn't tell it all, Nels, or else he didn't do it all," Skag remarked.  "We started
out to find a sick tigress and a hamper of neglected babies.  I'm not saying we won't find
that much.  The thing is, we may find more."

Nels was already five yards away across the pebbly hollow, waiting for Skag to follow along
the ravine.  Not a sign of a track that human eye could detect after that--straight, dry, stony
nullah bed, deeply shadowed from the narrow walls and stretching ahead apparently for miles.
At least it was cool work; the sun would not touch the floor of the fissure for hours yet.
Nels never faltered.  His pace gradually quickened until Skag softly called.  The Dane would
remember for fifteen or twenty minutes, when Skag, again finding that he had to step uncomfortably
fast to keep up, would laughingly call a check.  The man was watching the walls and the coverts
of broken rock, and Nels' speed, if left alone, altogether occupied his outer faculties.

It was eleven in the forenoon and Skag reckoned they must be close to the Nerbudda when Nels
halted--even bristled a bit, his broad black muzzle quivering and held aloft.  Skag came up
softly and stood close. He touched his finger to his tongue and drew a moist line under his
nostrils, trying to get the message that Nels was working with so obviously.  Presently an
almost noiseless chuckle came from the man, and he touched Nels' shoulder as if to say that
he had it too.  The thing had come unexpectedly--the faintest possible taint of a lair.

They would have passed it a hundred times if it had not been for the scent.  The silence was
absolute and the walls of the fissure apparently as unbroken as usual.  No human eyes would
have noted the wear of pads upon the stones, and one had to pass and look back to see the cleft
in the walls of the ravine, far above the high-water mark, which formed the door of significant
meaning for the man.  Nels hadn't seen this much, but he couldn't miss now.  He nosed the pebbles
again and made an abrupt turn to the right.  They climbed to the rocks near the entrance. 
The taint was unmistakable now--past doubt a bone pile of some kind in there--and Nels had
followed Tiger to the door.

Skag sat down upon a stone a little below and mopped his forehead, with a smile at the Dane.
For ten minutes he sat there.  He thought of the first time he had ever entered a tiger cage
as a mere boy, way back in the Middle West of the States, travelling with the circus.  A bored
show tiger in that cage, and he had blinked unconcernedly at the boy. Years of circus life
had atrophied that tiger's organs of resentment. Miles and miles of the public stream had passed
his cage with awe, speculating upon the great cat's ferocity.  Skag had merely to learn after
that, the trick of it all--that one's perfect self-control not only soothes but disarms most
normal beasts.  Skag had cultivated such self-control in recent years to a degree that made
him the astonishment of many Hindu minds.  India had shown him that the attainment of this
sort of poise is a stage of the same mastery that the mystics are out after--to gain complete
command of the menagerie in one's own insides. Hundreds of times after that, night and day,
in storm, in sultry weather, Skag had entered the cages of all kinds of animals in all their moods.

His first adventure in India came back, when with his friend Cadman he had fallen into the
pit trap and the grand young male tiger had tumbled after them.  Skag had prevailed upon the
nervy Cadman to sit tight and not to shoot, against all that the writer man knew; also he had
appeared to prevail upon the tiger to keep his side of the pit until they were rescued.  And
now Skag recalled the big tiger that had lain on the river margin near the Monkey Glen while
he had told Carlin that he had never really seen what a woman was like before.  The presence
of the big sleepy cat down among the wet foliage had nerved him and called out all his strength
for that romantic crisis.

He thought of the moment under the poised head of the great serpent in the place of fear in
the grass jungle; and of the coming of Nut Kut, the incomparable black elephant, whom he had
forced to listen in spite of the red hell in the untamable eyes.  Always between and in and
round, his thoughts were of Carlin--her voice, her presence, the curious art of her ministration
and the utterly wise lure of her heart. Even now he couldn't quite be calm under the whip of
memory of the afternoon of the cobra fight.  The whole panorama might have been named Carlin
so far as Skag was concerned.

He didn't think of his own danger now.  It wasn't that he ignored it; rather that he had entered
upon a new dimension of his power.  He had no thought of failure.  No thought came to him that
Carlin would have prevented his entering had she been near.  This was different from anything
he had ever been called to do, but his power was different. The thing that engaged his mind
was utterly clear from every angle.  He couldn't have missed the novelty from the unusual stress
of Nels' manner.  The big Dane was actually burning with excitement.  His eyes were filled
with firelight and back of the smoky burning was a dumb appeal turned to his chief.  Hyenas
alone had been able to break Nels' nerve for himself, but he was frightened now for the man.
The big bony jowl was steadily pressed like a knuckled hand against Skag's knee, the body only
half lifted from the dry stones and cramped with tension.

Skag's eyes were turned up toward the mouth of the lair and his left hand fell to the Dane's
head.  The beast actually shook because his eyes were covered a second.

"Of course you're to stay outside, Nels," he said softly as he rose.

The dog lowered his breast to the stones.  It was like a blow to him--the one thing he had
feared most.

"Don't, Nels!" the man muttered.  "You're to stand at the mouth of the lair and watch there.
I need you there--outside, of course."

The dog followed him heavily up the slope past the high-water mark. Skag turned with a cheering
whisper, shielding his eyes from the light for a moment before peering in.  There was a sound
like blown paper across a marble floor and then another sound--low, soft, prolonged, like the
hiss of escaping steam.

Skag shoved himself into the narrow, rocky aperture.  He could see nothing for the moment.
The taint was oppressive at the first breath of the still air.  There were kittens--no doubt
of that.  He heard their scurrying; he felt their eyes and the sort of melting panic in the
place that would have utterly unstrung any but a perfectly keyed set of nerves.

It was a cave, the mouth higher than the floor.  The way down was jagged and precipitous. 
Skag, advancing softly, had to feel for each step and yet give no distracting attention to
keep his footing, for the full energy of his faculties was directed ahead.

The sound of blown paper was from the kittens--that was clear enough. Yet the hissing continued
and this was the mystery of it all--that there appeared to be no movement besides.  If this
sound came from the tigress, at least, she had not stirred to meet him.

The hiss sunk to a low guttural grating.  No cub had a cavernous profundity of sound such as
that.  Still there was not the stir of a muscle, so far as his senses had detected.

Skag was puzzled.  Big game before him, possibly nerved to spring, and yet the tensity was
not like that.  The man stood still, waiting for his eyes to adjust to the darkness--waiting
for the mystery to clear. Then to the right, like a little constellation suddenly pricking
through the twilight, Skag saw a cluster of young stars.  His heart warmed--kittens hunched
there in a bundle and watching him.  Their pricked ears presently shadowed somewhat from the
blacker background; then he saw the little party suddenly swept and overturned, as if a long
thin arm had brushed them back out of reach of the intruder.

Now his eyes turned slightly to the left and began to get the rest--the great levelled creature
upon the darkened floor.  Skag kept his imagination down until his optic nerves actually brought
him the picture.  The long thin sweep was the mother's tail, yet she was not crouched.  Skag
saw her sprawled paws extended toward him.  She lay upon her side.

Thus it was that he was rounded back to the original proposition.  He had found the lair of
the wounded tigress and her young.  For fully two minutes Skag stood quiet before her, working
softly--her hiss changing at slow intervals to the cavernous growl.  The kittens were too young
to organise attack--the tigress was too maimed for resistance, even though at bay in lair with
her kittens to defend.

Now the man saw the gleam of her eyes.  She had followed his movements and was holding him
now, but half vacantly.  The pity of it all touched him; the rest of the story cleared.  Her
tongue was like a blown bag, the blackness of it apparent even in the dark.  She was dying
of thirst, the bullet wound in the shoulder turned up to him.  The little ones were still active,
for the tigress had fed them until her whole body was drained.  He saw how her breast had been
torn by the thirsty little ones--the open sores against the soft grey of her nether parts.
Skag backed out.  Nels pressed him--half lifted his great body in silent welcome.

"Oh, yes," Skag was saying, "we got the call, all right, my son.  Four little duds in there
eating their mother alive, and she full of fever from a wound--no water for days.  I'm just
after the canteen, Nels."

Skag entered again.  His movements were deliberate, but not stealthy. He spoke softly to the
creature on the floor--his voice lower than the usual pitch, yet sinking often deeper still.
The words were mere nothings, but they carried the man's purpose of kindness--carried it steadily,
tirelessly.  The great beast tried to rise as he stepped closer.  Skag waited, still talking.
He had uncorked the canteen and held it forward--his idea being not only that she would smell
the water but become accustomed to the thing in his hand.  Each time he pressed a bit nearer
she struggled to rise toward him--Skag standing just out of reach, tirelessly working with
his mind and voice.  He keenly registered her pain and helplessness in his own consciousness
and was unwilling to prolong it, yet at the same time he had a very clear understanding of
the patience required to bring help to her.

It was fully a quarter of an hour before he bent close, without starting a convulsion of fear
and revolt in the huge fevered body upon the rocky floor.  Skag poured a gurgle of water upon
the swollen tongue, watching the single baleful tortured eye that held his face. The water
was not wasted, though not drunk, for it washed away some of the poison formed of the fever
and the thirst.  Skag poured again and for a second the great holding eye was lost to him and
the tongue moved.

Thus he worked, permitting her fear and rage to rouse no answer in kind from himself; talking
to her softly, luring her out of fury into the enveloping madness of her own great need.

He waited a moment and her tongue stretched thickly to draw to itself the water on the rock;
then he turned toward the cubs.  They scurried back deeper into the cave.  He poured a gill
or two of water into a hollow of the rock and returned to the mother.  Presently as he moistened
her tongue again, one of the little ones crept forward and began to lap the puddle on the rock.

Skag smiled in the gloom.  The others were presently beside the baby leader.  A few moments
later Skag interrupted his ministrations to the mother to fill the hollow for the kittens again.
All this with less than three pints of water--the work of a full half hour as he found when
he emerged to Nels and the light.

"It's only a beginning, old man.  We've got to get more water.  It's five hours' march back
to the pool where we camped.  I'm gambling that we're a lot nearer than that to the Nerbudda."

Nels' jubilation was stayed by the unfolding of fresh plans that were not slow to dawn upon
his eager mind.  They hastened along the river bed, continuing in the direction they had come.
Skag was in a queer elation, dropping a sentence from time to time.  Suddenly he halted. It
had occurred to him to recall something his mind had merely noted during the work in the cave.
There was fresh meat there.  He had not looked close, but at least two partly devoured carcasses
had lain in the shadows.

"They were mighty thirsty, Nels," he muttered.  "The mother dying of thirst, but the little
ones were only sultry compared.  Yes, they're old enough to tear at fresh meat.  They weren't
so bad off and there was plenty of meat there.  Only thirsty," he added thoughtfully.

It was clear to his mind that the tigress had been helpless at least three days, possibly four.
She could not have brought the game.  There was one conclusive reason--that the meat was in
an altogether too fresh condition to have been brought by the mother before she gave up.  Skag
walked rapidly.  They did not reach the Nerbudda, but sighted a village back Horn the river
bed after nearly two hours' walk.

They refilled the canteens and procured two water skins besides; also a broad deep gourd which
Skag carried empty.  The man's difficulty was to escape without assistance.  A white man in
his position was not supposed to carry goatskin water bags over his shoulders.  The boys of
the village followed him after the elders had given up, and Skag halted at last to explain
that this was an affair that would interest them very much--when a teller came back to tell
the story; but that this was the doing part of the story and must be carried to its conclusion
alone.

A little later in the nullah bed he fastened the canteen and the gourd to Nels' collar, but
continued to pack the two skins himself--a rather arduous journey in full Indian daylight with
between forty and fifty pounds of water on his shoulders.  It was four in the afternoon when
they neared the mouth of the lair and Nels was drooping again.

"Buck up, old man!" Skag said.  "I'll go in for a while with the thirsty ones.  Then we'll
make a camp and have some supper together."

Skag heard the hiss again as he entered the darkness, and the kittens were not so still as
before.  Only a trifle less leisurely he approached the mother.  He knew that any strength
that had come would only feed her hostility so far; that a man was not to win the confidence
of a great mammal thing like this in a day.  His first impulse was to silence the kittens with
a gourd of water, but he could not bear to make the mother wait.

She raised her head against him as before, but the smell of the water caught and altered her
fury more swiftly this time.  Skag saw the glare go out from the great eye as the tortured
mouth was cooled; and now the hope grew within him that the tigress might actually be saved.
He talked softly to her as he poured drop by drop upon her tongue from the side--the little
ones pressing closer and closer.  Even in the convulsive trembling that took her body from
time to time there was an inflowing rather than the ebb of strength.

Presently he left her long enough partly to fill the big gourd for the babies.  He had scarcely
drawn back before the first was at the edge. Lapping was not enough for this infant.  He wanted
to cover himself; apparently to overturn the dish upon himself.  The others helped to balance
the gourd for a moment or two, but the massed effort became too furious and over it went among
them.  Skag laughed.  Only a portion was wasted, for the kittens followed the little streams
on the rock, tonguing them as they moved and filled.  He tried them again, only covering the
bottom of the gourd, but it was as swiftly overturned. Still the young had drunk enough presently
and went to tearing at the meat in the deeper shadows.

Skag went back to the mother, still using the canteen for her. Alternately now he dropped the
water upon the wound in her shoulder. There were hours of work here to soften the fever crust
and establish drainage.  Some time afterward this work was stopped abruptly by the warning
of Nels at the door.  Skag stood his canteen against a rock and hurried forth.  Nels stood
at the mouth of the lair, his head turned up the river bed.  His eyes did not alter from their
look of fixity as the man emerged.  The shoulder nearest Skag merely twitched a trifle, the
left paw lifting to the toes.  Skag followed the Dane's eyes.

The great male himself stood stock-still in the centre of the river bed, the carcass of a lamb
having dropped from his mouth.  So strange, so vast and still, the picture, that it seemed
dreamlike; the great, round, sunny eyes unwinking--serious rather than savage--a dark-banded
thing of gold in the ruddy gold of late afternoon.

Skag was silent, the magic of the moment flowing into him.  Nels had not moved.  Skag had been
forced to walk round him to find room to stand.  They faced the big Bengali together for an
instant, the man's hand dropping softly to the dog's shoulder.

"The king himself, son," Skag whispered raptly.  "He's the loveliest thing in stripes.  We'll
have to look out for this fellow, Nels. There's no fear in him.  We're on his premises and
the missus is sick and needs quiet.  He's apt to charge, and I can see his point of view. We'll
back down, son, and not obstruct the gentleman's door."

They couldn't have been three seconds clambering down the rocks to the nullah bed, yet the
male tiger was twenty feet nearer when they looked up.  Moreover, he had brought the lamb with
him, and this time he kept it in his mouth as he watched.

"We mustn't let him see our dark side again, Nels," Skag muttered. "See if we can't stare as
straight as he does.  God, what a picture! Yet I'm rather glad he's got that lamb.  He must
have brought it far. Carrying out her orders doubtless.  Only a great male would do that. Oh,
it's not that he cares for the babies, Nels.  It's to please her that he does it!  And she's
down and done, but running the lair!"

So Skag talked, hardly knowing what he said, keeping in touch with Nels with his hand and holding
the eyes of the royal beast that seemed to be made of patience and poise and gilded beauty.
Skag didn't step back, but presently to the side, away from the mouth of the lair.  The tiger's
counter movement was not to lessen the distance between them this time, but to drop to his
haunches, still holding his game.  He rocked a little on his hind feet, that ominous undulation
which portends the charge.  Not more than ten seconds passed and no outward change was apparent,
yet there was a relief of tension in Skag's voice.

"It's the little lamb that saved us that time, Nels.  I think we've passed it--passed the crisis,
my boy.  We'll just stand by now and measure patience with him."

It was two minutes before Skag ventured a further movement to the right.  The tiger made absolutely
no counter this time.  Skag now spoke to Nels:

"You're doing beautifully, son."

The dog had stood by like part of himself.  The droop and the quiver that he had known twice
that day when the man disappeared into the lair had given way in the real test to unbreakable
nerve and defiant heart. Yet it was less the courage than his absolute obedience that entered
the man with a charge of feeling that instant.  A minute later Skag took another ten steps
to the right.

In the deeper shadows, less than an hour afterward, he struck a match to the little supper
fire a hundred yards up the slope from the mouth of the lair.  Skag then loosened his hunting
belt, dropping the weight from him to the blanket with a sigh of content.  The hardware had
chafed him all day and had only been really forgotten in the stresses of action.

"I didn't pack that gun for tiger," he said softly.  "Why, I would as soon have shot our good
Arab, Kala Khan, or put a bullet between Nut Kut's eyes, as to stop that big fellow bringing
young mutton home--to please her!  Won't Carlin love to hear that!  Oh, yes, it's been a day,
son, one more day!  I've loved it minute by minute, and you've been--well, I can't think in
words, when it comes to that."

The big fellow drowsed in the firelight, his four paws stretched evenly toward the man.

In the morning and afternoon of the next two days Skag brought water to the tigress and bathed
her shoulder long.  On the third day he could not be sure that the male had left the lair until
late afternoon, and when he finally ventured to the mouth and his eyes grew accustomed to the
darkness within he saw that the tigress was watching him from the deeper shadows--not prone,
but on three feet.

He filled the gourd and weighted it with stones; then backed out.

"We're starting for Hurda to-night, son," he said to Nels.  "I've left her a drink or two,
and by the time she needs more, she'll be able to get to the river herself."

Carlin must have caught the reality of that moment of crisis from Skag's telling--the moment
when the male tiger might have charged but didn't, because she succeeded in making Malcolm
M'Cord see it, too.

"And you say there was no sign from the tiger, but that Hantee Sahib knew when the instant
was past?" the famous marksman repeated curiously.

Carlin nodded.

"But how did he know?"

"Ask him," she said.

"Huh," he muttered.  "I might as well enquire of the Dane beastie."

CHAPTER XVI

Fever Birds

Carlin had been listless for a day or two.  This was several weeks after her forty-two hours
on Mitha Baba.  They were still living in Malcolm M'Cord's bungalow.  Skag woke in the night,
not with a dream, but rather with a memory.  He was broad awake and recalled an incident that
had entirely escaped his day-thoughts for a long time.  It had to do with that hard-testing
period, just after his meeting with Carlin, when he had journeyed to Poona to confer with the
eldest brother, Roderick Deal, and had been forced to wait more than a month.  In that interval
he had learned about hyenas at first hand, through the plight of Beatrice Hichens and the children;
also his servant Bhanah had come to him, and the Great Dane, Nels; still it had been a vague
stretch of days, in retrospect.

It was during the return-trip to Hurda that the thing happened which held him now as he lay
broad awake.  Toward twilight, as the train halted at one of the civil stations, a white-covered
cot was lifted aboard.  There was a kind of silence about that station.  The mountains were
near on the left hand which was to the West.  The white glare of Indian day had softened into
delicate rose.  A haze of orange and bronze lay upon the lower slopes of the mountains, magically
enriching the greens; and the blue against which the mountains were contoured, was pure and
immense and still.  It was difficult to remember the fret and pain and discolouration of a
world bathed in so vast a peace. . . .

At first he thought that the body on the cot was in its shroud.  The hush about it and from
the mountains touched him with a feeling that he had not quite known before, the depth of it
having to do with Carlin. Then he saw, back of the natives who had lifted the cot, yet not
too near, the figure of an Englishman of the Military--standing quietly by, as if casually
ordering a platoon of soldiers in the duty of loading the train.  Now Skag looked at the man's
face.  It had nothing to do with the lax grace of the officer's figure.  This was the face
of a man who could endure anything without a cry--a narrow face, tanned and a bit hard possibly
from years of self-repression--a silent man, doubtless loved for the feeling around him, rather
than because of what he was accustomed to say or do--a face stricken now to the verge of chaos--unchanging
anguish of fear and loneliness and sorrow imprinted from within.  A strange white glow, that
had nothing to do with the tan, shone forth from the skin--etheric disruption, subtler than
the breakdown of mere cells.  This man would put a bullet in his brain if pressed too far,
but he would not cry out.  Just now he was close to his limit.

Skag knew something of what passed in the English officer's heart, because he himself was learning
what love means.  Before his hour with Carlin in the afterglow, on their way back from the
monkey glen, he would never have dreamed that there was such feeling in the world; in fact,
he would have been unable to read the vivid story of it in the officer's face. . . .  So much
in a second or two.

The cot had been partly lifted into the coach.  The face now was uncovered--the white wasted
face of a lovely woman, a woman still living; an utterly delicate face, telling the story of
one who had never met a rough impact from the world.  It was as if there had always been a
strong hand between her and the grit and the grind of world-affairs--first her father's and
then the lover's.  In the great silence, the eyelids opened.  It seemed that night and chill
had suddenly come in.  The lips moved.  The most mournful and hopeless voice spoke straight
into Skag's eyes:

"Oh, won't you please stop those fever birds!"

Skag supposed it an isolated sentence of delirium.  He didn't understand.  There was a drive
of drama or tragedy back of it, but his mind did not give him details.  He did not see the
English officer again.  He did not know if he entered the train.  One thing Skag knew: Deep
under that narrow masculine face there was a capacity for feeling that this officer's men never
saw; that his closest associates never saw.  The American reverenced the secret. . . .  Sometimes
during the hushes of the night, when the train stopped for a moment, Skag lying awake, heard
the voice of the woman.  There was a feeling from it utterly strange to him.  It carried him
out of himself, as if he shared something of her delirium and something of the man's agony.

The next day was one of the hardest that Skag ever lived, for Carlin was not at Hurda to meet
him.  She had gone with a strange elephant into the country.  That was the day of the chase
on the great young elephant Gunpat Rao, the day in which the story of the monster Kabuli unfolded.
The face of the man at the mountain station and the sentence of the woman were completely erased
from his surface consciousness, as the memory of an illness.

That was months away, and life had been very full in between. . . .

Carlin said she was just tired, when he went to her room in the morning.  She looked at him
long.  It suddenly came to him vaguely, that she wasn't thinking; rather that her eyes were
merely turned to his face.  A queer breathlessness came to him a little later, as her head
rolled to one side--such a sinking of weakness in the movement. It reminded him with a shock
that she had never seemed quite tireless since that long ride on Mitha Baba's neck.  But never
before had her face turned away from him.

And now he saw a certain inimitable loveliness of her.  There were no words to describe the
last--only that it was Spirit made of all the dusks and all the white fires.  There was something
little about her that called an undreamed-of tenderness; and something superb and mysterious,
so vast that he could be held in it like a toy in the hands.

Burning Indian day was walled and curtained and barred from the place where she lay.  White
of the walls, white of her face, white of the pallet--the rest a breathless, ungleaming shadow
that held a heat not from the sun, as it seemed, but from the centre of the earth.

. . . Skag was away in timelessness and an unfamiliar space.  This space was not fixed to one
dimension, but moved back and forth.  As Bhanah came to him, he saw more than Bhanah animate
upon the features--like someone who had belonged always, whom he had known for ages, whom Carlin
had always known.  So many things struck him differently now; as if they belonged not just
to this crisis, but to a crisis of eons.

Yet externals in the main were so trifling.  Carlin didn't eat; people seemed to take that
as significant.  Malcolm M'Cord came.  Margaret Annesley came.  Horace Dickson's father came.
Skag went to the bazaars and back again.  He went to the monkey glen.  It was all a blur. 
Once he caught himself walking on the great Highway-of-all-India; and once deep in the jungle.
He passed the civil surgeon of Hurda on his own verandah; and someone said that the old "family
doctor" was to come from Poona. . . .  Now he was in Carlin's room and Carlin was looking at
him.  He saw her face the moment he entered the room, and the fact that he had come in from
the fierce daylight into the shadows did, not seem to blur his eyes, even for a second.

Her people in the room--Bhanah, the ayah, the civil surgeon, Ian Deal and someone else--but
the line from her eyes to Skag was not crossed. The heart of the man leaped from what he saw--the
transcendent understanding which needed no words; the look of all looks that meant herself--a
little lingering smile on the lips, the endless lure of her wise eyes.

But all that was whipped away as he came three steps nearer her couch. The wonder of it was
not taken, but the old pain returned; rather, the pain had been there all the time, but he
had forgotten for a space.  He saw the ashen and frail face again and the inexpressible weariness
of her eyes, too tired to tell of it, too tired to stay!  Then the face of the English officer
appeared for his eyes--hovering back of the people, in a background of mountains. . . .

Carlin seemed listening.  What she heard came out of a grey intolerable monotony; but still
her eyes held his.  They seemed concentrated upon some weakness of his nature--some dementia
that had been before her for years, that had confronted her in every highway of life, frightened
away every opportunity and spoiled every day.  Her hand lifted just slightly, the palm turned
toward him:

"Oh, won't you please stop those fever birds?"

. . . Then one day Skag, standing in the darkened library, heard Margaret Annesley and one
of her friends speaking together in the verandah.

"But does she really hear anything?" the friend asked.

"Oh, yes; though you never hear them unless you are ill with the fever."

"How strange and terrible, and is it a particular fever?"

"Jungle fever, dear.  It comes to us sometimes of itself, but more often after a shock. . .
.  Carlin's night in the dark--"

Skag's arm lifted in a curve to cover his face as if from a blow. . . . Yet Margaret Annesley
was not quite right; for he had learned to hear what Carlin heard:

From far away very faint, curiously thin tones came to him; always repeating one word, with
an upward inflection, like a question.  Every repetition sounded the fraction of a degree higher
than the last, till they were far above the compass of any human voice:

"Fee-vur? fee-vur? fee-vur? fee-vur? -- -- --" and on and on.

When it began, quite low, he heard infinite patience in it; gradually, it grew full of fear;
then it climbed into a veritable panic of terror.

When it stopped at last, on a long distracted "u-u-u-r-r-r-r?"--he heard the male bird's answer,
sounding nearer, in deep tones of utter hopelessness, with a prolonged descending inflection:

"Bhoo-kha-a-a-r-r-r! bhoo-kha-a-a-r-r-r! bhoo-kha-a-a-r-r-r!"--the Indian word for fever, repeated
only three times.  Then the female began again; so, day and night--night and day.

After he had once heard it, he could always hear it.  So he learned that they never rest. 
Always, by listening, he could hear it at some point of its maddening scale--its insane assurance
of the hopelessness of jungle fever.

Skag faced the ultimatum.  This was different.  It had nothing to do with his world of animal
dangers.  This was a slow devouring which he could not touch nor stay.  Carlin was melting
before his eyes. . . . The brothers had come in, one by one, from over India.  (Margaret Annesley
had attended to that.)  Skag met them, moved quietly about, yet could not remember their faces
one from another.  He answered when spoken to, but retained no registration as to whom he had
spoken, or what had been said.  Sometimes he was alone for a few moments with Carlin; and when
her eyes were open he was appalled by the growing sense of distance in them.  Then before she
spoke, he would hear what she heard:

"Bhoo-kha-a-a-r-r-r! bhoo-kha-a-a-r-r-r! bhoo-kha-a-a-r-r-r!"

There were queer rifts of light in his mind, instants when he realised that all the hard moments
of the past had prepared him for this.  He saw clearly that he could not have endured, even
to the present hour, without every experience life had shown him--especially without the difficult
ones.  He lived again the great moments--all the Indian afterglows that were identified with
Carlin--perfect lessons of mercy she had taught him, through the very yearning of his own heart
in her presence to be worthy of days with her.  Never useless words from Carlin, but always
the vivid meaning.  He had been slow at first to see how much more magic were their days together,
because she paid for them with a night-and-day readiness to go forth to the call of service
to others.

Yet through all, he was utterly, changelessly desolate.  Not only bitterness, but an icy bitterness,
was upon all meaning and movement of life.  It was almost like a conspiracy that no part in
ministration was demanded of him by those who were now in his house.  The doctors talked to
Miss Annesley or to the servants; the brothers came and went with their fear and fidelity--but
spoke to Skag of other things than the illness.  Still, in his heart a concept slowly formed--that
he had something which Carlin needed now; that this something had to do, though it was different,
with the power he used to change animals.  It seemed absurd even to think of this--with all
these wise ones around him, not perceiving it.  They formed a barrier of their thoughts which
kept him from expression.  He stood apart for hours as the days passed, thinking of his part;
and yet the icy bitterness held him from action.

Sometimes his heart seemed dying; chill already upon it.  Again he seemed filled with a strange
vitality, other than his own.  This phenomenon frightened him more than the first, so that
he would hurry to look at Carlin lest the strength had come from her.  He tried to think the
strength back to her; to think all his own besides; but there was no drive to his mind-work
because he did not have faith in himself.

At length came the night when the fever birds ceased for Carlin.  Out of a great soft depth
of tone which no one but Skag had heard before (which he had thought no other would hear until
there was a baby in her arms), her words came with unforgettable intensity:

"Oh, the jungle shadows!  The jungle shadows!"

After that he did not know whether it was night or day, until he heard the end of a sentence
from the doctor from Poona:

". . . only four hours left to break the fever."

The room was in great still heat--heat of a burning night, a smothering heat to the couch from
a distant lamp--the fire of the day coming up from the ground like flashes of anger. . . .

A strange stillness was settling on everything; the silence before had not been so heavy. 
The old family doctor from Poona came into it; and Margaret Annesley stood by him near the bed.

"Carlin has not spoken for more than an hour," Skag heard her tell him.

It seemed long before he answered:

"She has passed too far down into the shadows.  She will not speak again."

The words came to Skag as if through limitless space; but the last ones penetrated deep and
laid hold.

Margaret went out swiftly and the doctor followed.  He looked a very, very old man--with his
head bent, like that.

. . . She will not speak again!

The universe was falling into disruption.

It was all white where she lay.  Only the heavy masses of her dark hair, spread on the pillows
and across one shoulder, showed any colour--shadowed gold, shadowed red.

. . . She will not speak again!

Seven tall men filed into the room before Skag's eyes, and ranged on either side of her.  These
were her own brothers.  Skag felt the vague pang again, of being alien to them.

Roderick Deal, the eldest--the one with the inscrutable blackness of eyes--leaned and kissed
the white, white forehead; and a fold of the splendid hair.

One figure had gone down at the lower end of the bed--long arms stretched over her feet--slender
dark hands clenching and unclenching. The detail of it cut into Skag, like a spear of keen
pain through chaos.  Returned away--it was intolerable.

. . . An arm fell about Skag's shoulders.

"Brother?"  Roderick Deal's fathomless eyes drew Skag's and held them while he spoke: "We are
leaving you to be alone with her--at the last!"

The arm gripped as he added:

"You are to know this--we will not fail you, now!" and he was gone. They were all gone.

Faint tones of the fever bird, ascending, came from far out.  Other tones, descending, came
from greater distances within. . . .  She will not speak again!

Bhanah touched his sleeve.

"My Master!"  The man's nearness of spirit, as he spoke, vibrated into Skag and roused him
to something different, something clearer.  "A mystic from the Vindha mountains has but just
reached this place.  They are very powerful, having great knowledge.  This man is blood-kin
to her.  Give me permission and I will call him."

Skag looked into Bhanah's eyes, finding the ancient friendship there; then he said only one word:

"Hurry!"

Bhanah leaped away across the lawn and Skag turned to stand by Carlin's side.

The silence seemed absolute now; the whiteness absolute.  He remembered that she had gone down
into shadows.  He bent his head toward her breast and looked down.

. . . Sense of time was gone--even the endlessness of it.  Sense of whiteness was gone.  His
vision wakened, as he groped through deepening shadows, on and on--till they turned to utter
blackness.  In that utter blackness appeared a thread of pure blue; he traced it back up till
it entered Carlin's body.  There, it was not blue any more, but a faint glow of high white
light centred in her breast and shed--like moonlight--through all her person.

The heart of his heart called to her. . . .  There was no answer.

. . . He became aware that a tall slender man stood at his side; but it did not disturb him.
The man wore long straight robes of camel's hair. The sense of him was strength.  At last he spoke:

"Son, why do you call to her?  She cannot come back--of herself.  You cannot fetch her back."

"Why?" breathed Skag.  "I ought to be able to."

"No," the man said kindly, "you are not able to--I am not able to--no created being is able to."

The man emphasised the word created.

"What can?" Skag asked.

"First you must learn not to depend on yourself; then you must know something of the law."

The man was holding one hand out, above Carlin's head--quite still, but not close, while he
spoke.  Skag felt his strength more than at first.

"Do you want her for yourself?" he asked.

Skag looked into his kind dark eyes--his own eyes speaking for him.

"Do you want her for her own sake--because she loves you?  Is it that you have knowledge what
will be best for her?  Did you create her--did you prepare her ultimate destiny, do you even
know it?"

"I know that I am in it!"

Skag answered very low, but with conviction.  His eyes were agonised; but the man bored into
them, without relenting.

"Do you want her to come back from the margin of departure, for the sake of others--for the
sake of her ministry to their need?"

The answer to this last question came up in Skag--waves on waves, rolling into engulfing billows.

"That answer may avail!" the man said conclusively.  "If it is accepted--if your love for her
is perfect enough to forget itself--if you are able to make your mind altogether inactive--"

"Then how shall I work--if not with my mind?" Skag interrupted.

"First know that you yourself can do nothing."  The man spoke with soft, slow emphasis.  "No
created being has power to do that kind of work."

"What has?" Skag asked.

"A Power that we are not worthy to name," the man answered, with reverence.  "If it accepts
your reason why she should stay--if your love is found to be without tarnish of self--it will
work her restoration; not otherwise.

"Make yourself still.  Give your mind to the apprehension of her nature--till your mind has
come to be as if it were not. . . . Peace!"

The man dropped his head a moment, before he moved to stand at the food of her bed.  With his
eyes on her face he leaned, laying his palms over her feet; then, seeming to float backward
to the wall, he sank slowly--to sit as the Hindus do.

The sense of his strength seemed to fill the whole room.  It was the last outward thing Skag
was aware of.

. . . It was as if Skag had passed through eons of ages trying to put away all the tender yearning
anguish of his love for Carlin.  He came to know her as a beneficent entity of high voltage--needed
in more than one place.

It must be that he should make it possible for her to serve here, more potently than there--else
she could not be held back.  With all his strength, he would try.

"Son," the mystic's voice rang out, "now give yourself to your love for her--with your strength!"

Presently a warm glow flowed up into Skag's feet, filling his person and extending his physical
sentiency into her body.  That body was utterly bound in a strange vise--very heavy; as if
every particle of every part were separately frozen.

. . . It seemed to Skag as if he could not breathe.

"Breathe!" the mystic said, as he rose from the floor to stand on his own feet.

That instant an impact of force from him struck Skag like a blow; and the next moment his sense
of strength had become like that of twenty men--it was hard to bear.

"Steady--slow!"  It was a soft, but imperative order.

Gradually the warmth increased; not in degree, but in the rate of its flow.  At last it was
a surge, so intense that Skag could feel his own blood-pulse--a different kind of pulse.

The need of help was very great.  There was a faintness--surely more terrible than any death!

"Fear not!" the mystic called tenderly.  "The Supreme Power cares for her--more than you can!"

As he heard these words, a great tide rose up into Skag, penetrating his body and his mind
and the uttermost deeps of his consciousness.  A vast sweeping tide--it descended below all
depths, it ascended above all heights, it compassed all reaches.  It was ineffable love--transcendent.
It was for her!  But it was for him--too!  Nay--it was for every living thing in this mortal
condition and in all other conditions!

. . . Carlin turned her head a little, lifted one hand a little and sighed deeply.  Then she
moved till she lay easily on one side, just murmuring:

"I think I'll sleep."

Carlin had spoken again!

"Son" (the mystic spoke very softly, while he drew Skag to a large couch in the same room),
"it is finished.  She is altogether safe now. You should be this far away; stretch yourself
here and give yourself to sleep also--it will be best for her if you do.

"Be at perfect rest--there is no fear.  (I will give Bhanah directions.)  Now--Peace be on
thee; and on thy house, forever!"

His words permitted no answer.  He went and smiled down on Carlin.  He touched her forehead
with his finger-tips--he even kissed her curling hair.

"Child of my brother's love!" he said softly, as he turned away.

Then Skag also slept.