Supreme authority is now once more in the hands of the revolutionary band.--In conformity with
its decrees of Fructidor, it first obliges electors to take two-thirds of their new representatives
from the Convention. And as, notwithstanding its decrees, the electoral assemblies have not
re-elected a sufficient number of the Conventionalists, it nominates itself, from a list prepared
by its Committee of Public Safety, the one hundred and four which are lacking: In this way,
both in the council of the Five Hundred, as well as in the council of the Ancients, it secures
a clear majority in both the houses of the Legislative Corps. In the executive branch, in the
Directory, it assures itself of unanimity. The Five Hundred, by adroitly preparing the lists,
impose their candidates on the Ancients, selecting the five names beforehand: Barras, La Révellière
de Lépeaux, Reubell, Letourneur and Siéyès, and then, on Siéyès refusing, Carnot. All of them
are regicides and, under this terrible qualification, bound at the risk of their heads, to
maintain the regicide faction in power.--Naturally the Directory chooses its agents from among
their own people,[5129] their ministers and the employees of their departments, ambassadors
and consuls, officers of all ranks, collectors of taxes direct and indirect, administrators
of the national domains, commissioners of civil and Criminal courts, and the commissioners
of the departmental and municipal administrations. Again, having the right to suspend and dismiss
all elected administrative bodies, it exercises this right. If the local authorities of any
town, canton, or department seem to be anti-Jacobin, it sets them aside and, either on its
own authority, or with the assent of the Legislative Corps, replaces them with Jacobins on
the spot.[5130] In other respects, the Convention has done its best to relieve its clients
of their principal adversaries and most popular rivals. The night before its dissolution, it
excluded from every "legislative, municipal, administrative and judicial function,"[5131] even
that of juryman, not only the individuals who, rightly or wrongly, had been put on a list of
émigrés and not yet stricken off, but likewise their fathers, sons and grandsons, brothers
and brothers-in-law, their connections of the same degree, uncles and nephews. In all, probably
two or three hundred thousand Frenchmen, nearly the whole of the élite of the nation. To this
it adds the rest of this élite, all the honest and energetic who, in the late primary or electoral
assemblies have "provoked or signed" any manifestation against its despotism; if still in office
they are to resign within twenty-four hours, or be sent into perpetual exile.--Through this
legal incapacity of the anti-Jacobins, the field is free to the Jacobins. In many places, for
lack of candidates that please them, most of the electors stay away from the polls; besides
this, the terrorists resort to their old system, that is to say to brutal violence.[5132] On
again obtaining the support of the government they have raised their heads and are now the
titular favorites. The Convention has restored to them the civic rights of which they had deprived
their adversaries: "every decree of indictment or arrest" rendered against them, "every warrant
executed or not, all proceedings and suits" begun, every sentence bearing on their revolutionary
acts, is cancelled. The most "atrocious" Montagnards, the most sanguinary and foul proconsuls,
Dartigoyte and Piochefer-Bernard, Darthé, Lebon's secretary, Rossignol the great September
massacrer, the presidents of former revolutionary committees, "patriotic robbers, seal-breakers"
and garroters, brazenly promenade the streets of Paris.[5133] Barère himself, who, condemned
to transportation, universally execrated as he traverses France, and who, everywhere on his
journey, at Orleans, Tours, Poitiers, Niort, comes near being torn to pieces by the people,
Barère is not sent off to Guienne; he is allowed to escape, to conceal himself and live tranquilly
at Bordeaux. Furthermore, Conventionalists of the worst species, like Monestier and Foussedoire
return to their natal department to govern it as government commissioners.

Consider the effect of these releases and of these appointments in a town which, like Blois,
has seen the assassins at work, and which, for two months, follows their trial.[5134]--Seven
of them, members of the Revolutionary Committee, commanders of the armed force, members of
the district or department, national agents in Indre-et-Loire, charged with conducting or receiving
a column of eight hundred laborers, peasant women, priests and "suspects," cause nearly six
hundred of them to be shot, sabered, drowned or knocked down on the road, not in self-defense
or to prevent escape, for these poor creatures tied two and two marched along like sheep without
a murmur, but to set a good revolutionary example, so as to keep the people in proper subjection
by terror and enable them to line their pockets.[5135] A minute investigation has unfolded
before the judges, jury and public of Blois a long series of authentic facts and proofs, with
eight days of pleading and the most complete and glaring evidence; the sentence is about to
be pronounced. Suddenly, two weeks before Vendémiaire 13, a decree annuls the proceedings,
which have already cost over 600,000 livres, and orders a new trial in another form. Next,
after Vendémiaire 13, a representative arrives at Blois and his first care is to set the butchers
free.--About thirty knaves ruled the town during the reign of Terror, all strangers, save four
or five, "all more or less befouled with crime." At first, the principal slaughterers:

* Hézine, Gidouin, and their accomplices of the neighboring districts,

* Simon and Bonneau the ex-mayor of Blois,

* Bézard, a former soldier, convicted of peculation and of robbing cellars which he had put
under sequestration,

* Berger, an ex-monk, and then dragoon who, with pistol in hand, forced the superior of his
old convent to give up the funds of the community,

* Giot, formerly a chief-butler of Monsieur (the King's brother), next, a judge in the September
massacres and then a quartermaster in the Pyrenees army and a pillager in Spain, then secretary
to the Melun tribunal of which he stole the cash, along with other nomads and outlaws of the
same stamp, most of them sots and roisterers, one an ex-schoolmaster, another an ex-ladies
hair-dresser, another an ex-chair-bearer; all of them a vile lot, chosen by the government
for its agents, and, under new titles, resuming their old positions. At the head of the armed
force is Gen. Bonnard, who is accompanied by a prostitute and who passes his time in orgies,
pilfering wherever he can, and so shameless in his thievery as to be condemned, six months
later, to three months in irons.[5136] On arriving at Blois, he organizes "a paid guard, composed
of all the most abject Jacobins."--Elsewhere, as here,[5137] it is the full staff of the reign
of Terror, the petty potentates dethroned after Thermidor, the political Bohemians restored
to their functions.

IV. Public Opinon.

     Resistance of public opinion.--Elections, year IV. at Paris
     and in the provinces.--The Directory threatened by ultra
     Jacobins.--Forced amelioration of the Jacobin
     administration.

So, that after Vendémiaire 13, it looks as if the Jacobin band had made the conquest of France
a second time. This, however not yet so, for, if it has recovered its authority, it has not
yet recovered the dictatorship.--In vain do Barras and Tallien, Dubois-Crancé, Merlin de Douai
and Marie Chénier, Delmas, Louvet, Siéyès and their corrupt gang, the habitués of power, the
despotic, unscrupulous theorists, try to postpone indefinitely the opening of the legislative
bodies, to annul the elections, to purge the Convention, to restore for their own advantage
that total concentration of powers which, under the title of revolutionary government, has
converted France into a pachalic[5138] in the hands of the old Committee of Public Safety.[5139]
But the Convention has become frightened for its own safety; at the last moment the plot is
exposed, and the blow frustrated.[5140] The Constitution, decreed, is put in operation, and
a system of the law has replaced the system of arbitrariness. The Jacobin invasion, through
that alone, is checked and then arrested. The nation is in a condition to defend itself and
does defend itself. It gradually regains lost ground, even at the center.--At Paris, the electoral
body,[5141] which is obliged to take two-thirds of its deputies from the Convention, takes
none of the regicide deputation representing Paris. All who are chosen, Lanjuinais, Larivière,
Fermon, Saladin, Boissy d'Anglas, wished to save the King, and nearly all were proscribed after
the 31st May. The departments show the same spirit. The members of the Convention for whom
the provinces show a decided preference are the most prominent of the anti-Jacobins: Thibaudeau
is re-elected by 32 electoral colleges, Pelet de la Lozére by 71, Boissy d'Anglas by 72, Lanjuinais
by 73. As to the 250 of the new third, these are liberals of 1789 or moderates of 1791,[5142]
most of them honorable men and many of them well-informed and of real merit, jurisconsults,
officers, administrators, members of the Constitutional Assembly or Feuillants in the Legislative
Assembly, Mathieu Dumas, Vaublanc, Dupont de Nemours, Siméon, Barbé-Marbois and Tronçon-Ducoudray.
The capital, especially, chose Dambray, former general-advocate to the Paris parliament, and
Pastoret, former minister of Louis XVI.. Versailles sends the two celebrated lawyers who defended
the King before the Convention, Tronchet and De Séze.--Now, previous to the 13th Vendémiaire,
two hundred members of the Convention had already heartily sided with the Parisian electors[5143]
against the terrorists. This creates a strong opposition minority inside the Legislative Corps
which function protected by the Constitution. Hidden behind it and behind them, the élite and
the plurality of Frenchmen wait for better days. The Directory is obliged to act cautiously
with this large group, so well supported by public opinion, and, accordingly, not to govern
à la Turk. So they respect, if not the spirit, at least the letter of the law, and not to exercise
a too barefaced influence on local elections. Hence most of the local elections remain free,
so that the nation,

* in spite of the decree excluding every relation of an émigré and every notorious opponent
of the government from present and future offices,

* in spite of fear, lassitude and disgust,

* in spite of the small number of votes, the rarity of candidates and the frequent refusal
of the elected to serve,[5144]

substantially exercises its privilege of electing its administrators and judges according to
its preferences. Consequently, the very large majority of new administrators in the departments,
cantons and municipalities, and the very large majority of new civil and criminal judges and
justices of the peace are, like the new third of the Convention, highly esteemed or estimable
men. They are untainted with excesses, still preserving their hopes of 1789, but preserved
from the outset against, or soon cured of, the revolutionary fever. Every decree of spoliation
or persecution loses some of its force in their hands. Supported by the steady and manifest
will of their present constituents, we see them resisting the commissioners of the Directory,
at least protesting against their exactions and brutality, gaining time in favor of the proscribed,
dulling the point of, or turning aside, the Jacobin sword.

Again, on the other hand, the government which holds this sword dare not, like the Committee
of Public Safety, thrust it in up to the hilt. If wielded as before it might slip from its
grasp. The furious in its own camp are ready to wrest it away and turn the blade against it.
It must defend itself against the reviving clubs, against Babeuf and his accomplices, against
the desperadoes who, through a nocturnal attempt, try to stir up the Grenelle camp: in Paris,
there are four or five thousand now ready to undertake a "civic St. Bartholomew," with the
old Conventionists who could not get themselves elected, at their head,--Drouet, Amar, Vadier,
Ricord, Laignelot, Chaudieu, Huguet, Cusset, Javogues. Alongside of them, the friends of Chalier,
Robespierre's and Marat's followers, and the disciples of Saint-Just, Bertrand de Lyon, Buonarotti,
Antonelle, Rossignol and Babeuf. Behind them, the bandits of the street, those "who gutted
houses during the Revolution," peculators or Septembriseurs out of employment, in short, the
relics of the terrorist gang or of the revolutionary army. Their plan, true to their precedents,
character and principles, consists not only in despatching "the rascals who keep coaches, the
moneyed men and monopolisers," all the deputies and functionaries who do not resign at the
first summons, but also, and especially, in killing "the General of the Interior, his staff,
the seven ministers and the five 'cocked-hats' (panachés) of the Luxembourg," that is to say,
the five Directors themselves. Such allies are troublesome. Undoubtedly, the government, which
considers them as its forlorn hope, and that it may have need of them in a crisis, spares them
as much as possible.[5145] It allows Drouet to escape, and lets the trial of the Babouvists
drag along, only two of them being guillotined, Babeuf and Darthé; most of the others are acquitted
or escape. Nevertheless, for its own salvation, it is led to separate from the fiercest Jacobins
and draw near to peaceable citizens.--Through this internal discord of the ruling faction,
honest people hold on the offices they occupy on the elections of the year IV.. No decree comes
to deprive them of their legal arms, while, in the Legislative Corps, as in the administrations
and the tribunals, they count on carrying new positions in the elections of the year V.

V. Actual aim of Jacobin Activities: Power and Wealth.

     Elections of year V.--Character and sentiments of the
     elected.--The new majority in the Corps Legislatif.--Its
     principles and program.--Danger and anxiety of the Jacobin
     minority.--Indecision, division, scruples and weakness of
     the moderate party.--Decision, want of scruples, force and
     modes of procedure of the Jacobin faction.--The 18th of
     Fructidor.

"It was a long time," writes a small trader of Evreux, "since so many people were seen at the
elections.[5146].... The eight electors for the town obtained at the first ballot the absolute
majority of suffrages.... Everybody went to the polls so as to prevent the nomination of any
elector among the terrorists, who had declared that their reign was going to return."--In the
environs of Blois, a rural proprietor, the most circumspect and most peaceable of men, notes
in his journal[5147] that "now is the time to take a personal interest.. .. Every sound-thinking
man has promised not to refuse any office tendered to him so as to keep out the Jacobins.....
It is reasonably hoped that the largest number of the electors will not be terrorists and that
the majority of the Legislative Corps being all right, the minority of the furious, who have
only one more year of office, will give way (in 1798) to men of probity not steeped in crime..
.. In the country, the Jacobins have tried in vain: people of means who employed a portion
of the voters, obtained their suffrages, every proprietor wishing to have order.... The Moderates
have agreed to vote for no matter what candidate, provided he is not a Jacobin.... Out of two
hundred and thirty electors for the department, one hundred and fifty are honest and upright
people..... They adhered to the last Constitution as to their sole palladium, only a very few
of them dreaming of re-establishing the ancient régime." Their object is plain enough; they
are for the Constitution against the Revolution, for limited power against discretionary power,
for property against robbery, for upright men against thieves.--"Would you prevent, say the
administrative authorities of Aube,[5148] a return to the disastrous laws of the maximum, of
monopolies, to the resurrection of paper-money?... Would you, as the price of a blameless life,
be once more humiliated, robbed, imprisoned, tortured by the vilest, most repulsive and most
shameless of tyrants? You have only one recourse: do not fail to go to your primary assemblies
and remain there." The electors, warned by their late personal and bloody souvenirs, rush to
the polls in crowds and vote according to their consciences, although the government through
the oaths it imposes, its official candidatures, its special commissioners, its intimidation
and its money, bears down with all its weight on the resolutions they have taken. Although
the Jacobins at Nevers, Mâcon and elsewhere, have forcibly expelled officers legally elected
from their bureaux, and stained the hall with their blood,[5149] "out of 84 departments 66
elected a plurality of electors from among the anti-republicans, eight being neither good nor
bad, while only ten remained loyal to the Jacobins."[5150]--Appointed by such electors, we
can divine what the new Third will be. "Of the 250 Conventionalists excluded by the draw scarcely
five or six have been re-elected; there are but eight departments in which the Jacobins have
had any success. "-Immediately after the arrival of the new representatives, the roll of the
Legislative Corps having been checked off, it is found that "the Government has 70 out of 250
votes among the Ancients, and 200 out of 500 among the Council of the Young," and soon less
than 200 in this Council,[5151] 130 at the most, who will certainly be excluded at the coming
renewal of the chambers in elections which are becoming more and more anti-Jacobin. One year
more, as the rulers themselves admit, and not one Conventionalist, not one pure Jacobin, will
sit in the Legislative Corps. Consequently, according to the revolutionaries, the counter-revolution
will have taken place in the year VI.

This means that the Revolution is to end in the year VI., and that the pacific reign of law
will be substituted for the brutal reign of force. In fact, the great majority of the representatives
and almost the entire French nation have no other end in view: they wish to rid themselves
of the social and civil régime to which they have been subject since the 10th of August, 1792,
and which, relaxed after Thermidor 9, but renewed by the 13th of Vendémiaire, has lasted up
to the present time, through the enforcement of its most odious laws and the maintenance of
its most disreputable agents. This is all.--Not twenty avowed or decided royalists could be
found in the two Councils.[5152] There are scarcely more than five or six--Imbert-Colomès,
Pichegru, Willot, Delarne--who may be in correspondence with Louis XVIII. and disposed to raise
the royal flag. For the other five hundred, the restoration of the legitimate King, or the
establishment of any royalty whatever, is only in the background; they regard it only at a
distance, as a possible accompaniment and remote consequence of their present undertaking.
In any event, they would accept only "the mitigated monarchy,"[5153] that which the Liberals
of 1788 hoped for, that which Mounier demanded after the days of October 5 and 6, that advocated
by Barnave after the return from Varennes, that which Malouet, Gouverneur Morris, Mallet-Dupan
and all good observers and wise councillors of France, always recommended. None of them propose
to proclaim divine right and return to aristocratic feudalism; each proposes to abrogate revolutionary
right and destroy Jacobin feudalism. The principle condemned by them is that which sustains
the theory of anarchy and despotism,

* the application of the Contrat Social,[5154]

* a dictatorship established by coups détat, carried on arbitrarily and supported by terror,

* the systematic and dogmatic persistence of assaults on persons, property and consciences,

* the usurpation of a vicious, fanatical minority which has devastated France for five years
and, under the pretext of everywhere setting up the rights of man, purposely maintaining a
war to propagate its system abroad.

That which they are really averse to is the Directory and its clique, Barras with his court
of gorged contractors and kept women, Reubell with his family of extortioners, stamp of a parvenu
and ways of a tavern keeper, La Révellière-Lepaux with his hunchback vanity, philosophic pretensions,
sectarian intolerance and silly airs of a pedantic dupe. What they demand in the tribune,[5155]
is the purification of the administration, the suppression of jobbery, an end to persecution
and, according as they are more or less excited or circumspect, they demand legal sentences
or simply the removal of Jacobins in office, the immediate and entire suppression or partial
and careful reform of the laws against priests and worship, against émigrés and the nobles.[5156]--Nobody
has any idea of innovation with respect to the distribution of public powers, or to the way
of appointing central or local authorities. "I swear on my honor," writes Mathieu Dumas, "that
it has always been my intention to maintain the Republican Constitution, persuaded as I am
that, with a temperate and equitable administration, it might give repose to France, make liberty
known and cherished, and repair in time the evils of the Revolution. I swear that no proposals,
direct or indirect, have ever been made to me to serve, either by my actions, speech or silence,
or cause to prevail in any near or remote manner, any other interest than that of the Republic
and the Constitution."--"Among the deputies," says Camille Jordan, "several might prefer royalty;
but they did not conspire, regarding the Constitution as a deposit entrusted to their honor..
They kept their most cherished plans subordinate to the national will; they comprehended that
royalty could not be re-established without blows and through the development of this bill."--"Between
ourselves," says again Barbé-Marbois, "there were disagreements as to the way of getting along
with the Directory, but none at all as to the maintenance of the Constitution."[5157] Almost
up to the last moment they confined themselves strictly to their legal rights, and when, towards
the end, they were disposed to set these aside, it was simply to defend themselves against
the uplifted saber above their heads.[5158] It is incontestable that their leaders are "the
most estimable and the ablest men in the Republic,"[5159] the only representatives of free
suffrage, mature opinions and long experience, the only ones at least in whose hands the Republic,
restored to order and justice, would have any chance of becoming viable, in fact, the only
liberals. And this is the reason why the merely nominal Republicans were bound to crush them.

In effect, under a government which disavows attacks on persons and on public or private property,
not only is the Jacobin theory impossible, but Jacobin wrongs are condemned. Now, the Jacobins,
even if they have abjured their principles, remember their acts. They become alarmed on the
arrival of the first Third, in October, 1795: "The Conventionalists," writes one of the new
deputies,[5160] "look upon us as men who will one day give them up to justice." After the entry
of the second Third, in May, 1797, their fright increased; the regicides, especially, feel
that "their safety depends only on an exclusive and absolute dominion."[5161] One day, Treilhard,
one of their notables, alone with Mathieu Dumas, says to this old Feuillant and friend of Lafayette,
of well known loyalty and moderation: "You are very honest and very able men, and I believe
that you really desire to maintain the government as it is, because neither for you nor for
us is there any sure way of substituting another for it. But we Conventionalists cannot allow
you to go on; whether you mean it or not, you are gradually leading us to our certain ruin;
there is nothing in common between us."--"What guarantee do you then require?"--"Only one.
After that, we'll do all you want--we'll let you relax the springs--give us this guarantee
and we'll follow you blindly!--"Well, what do you mean by that?"--

"Enter the tribune and declare that if you had been a member of the Convention, you would have
voted the death of Louis XVI. as we did!"- "You demand an impossibility. You would not do this
in our place. You sacrifice France to vain terrors."--

"No, the risk is not equal; our heads are at stake!"

Their heads, perhaps,--but certainly their power, places, fortunes, comforts and pleasures,
all that in their eyes makes it worth while to live.--Every morning, seventy Paris newspapers
and as many local gazettes in the large towns of the provinces expose, with supporting documents,
details and figures, not merely their former crimes, but, again, their actual corruption, their
sudden opulence founded on prevarication and rapine, their bribes and peculations--

* one, rewarded with a sumptuously furnished mansion by a company of grateful contractors;

* another, son of a bailiwick attorney and a would-be Carthusian, now possessor of ecclesiastical
property, restored by him at a great outlay for hunting-grounds; another also monopolizes the
finest land in Seine-et-Oise;

* another, the improvised owner of four chateaux;

* another, who has feathered his nest with fifteen or eighteen millions,[5162]

With their loose or arbitrary ways of doing things, their habits as hoarders or spendthrifts,
their display and effrontery, their dissipations, their courtiers and their prostitutes. How
can they renounce all this?--And all the more because this is all they have. These jaded consciences
are wholly indifferent to abstract principles, to popular sovereignty, to the common weal,
to public security; the thin and brittle coating of sonorous phrases under which they formerly
tried to hide the selfishness and perversity of their lusts, scales off and falls to the ground.
They themselves confess that it is not the Republic for which they are concerned, but for themselves
above everything else, and for themselves alone. So much the worse for the Republic if its
interest is opposed to their interest; as Siéyès will soon express it, the object is not to
save the Revolution but the revolutionaries.--Thus disabused, unscrupulous, knowing that they
are staking their all, and resolute, like their colleagues of August 10, September 2 and May31
and like the Committee of Public Safety, they are determined to win, no matter at what cost
or by what means.

For this time again, the Moderates do not want to comprehend that the war has been declared,
and that it is war to the knife. They do not agree amongst themselves; they want to gain time,
they hesitate and take refuge in constitutional forms--they do not act. The strong measures
which the eighty decided and clear-sighted deputies propose, are weakened or suspended by the
precautions of the three hundred others, short-sighted, unreliable or timid.[5163] They dare
not even avail themselves of their legal arms:

* annul the military division of the interior,

* suppress Augereau's commission,

* and break the sword presented at their throats by the three conspiring Directors.

In the Directory, they have only passive or neutral allies, Barthélémy, who had rather be assassinated
than murder, Carnot, the servant of his legal pass-word, fearing to risk his Republic, and,
moreover, calling to mind that he had voted for the King's death. Among the "Five Hundred"
and the "Ancients," Thibaudeau and Tronçon-Ducoudray, the two leaders "du ventre," arrest the
arms of Pichegru and other energetic men, prevent them from striking, allow them only to ward
off the blow, and always too late. Three days after the 10th of Fructidor, when, as everybody
knew and saw, the final blow was to be struck, the eighty deputies, who change their quarters
so as not to be seized in their beds, cannot yet make up their minds to take the offensive.
On that day, an eye-witness[5164] came to Mathieu Dumas and told him that, the evening before,
in Barras' house, they discussed the slaughter or transportation to Cayenne of about forty
members of the two Councils, and that the second measure was adopted. On which a commandant
of the National Guard, having led Dumas at night into the Tuileries garden, showed him his
men concealed behind the trees, armed and ready to march at the first signal. He is to possess
himself at once of the Luxembourg (palace)[5165] which is badly guarded, and put an end to
Barras and Reubell on the spot: in war one kills so as not to be killed, and, when the enemy
takes aim, you have the right to fire without waiting. "Only," says the commandant, "promise
me that you will state in the tribune that you ordered this attack, and give me your word of
honor."[5166] Mathieu Dumas refuses, simply because he is a man of honor. "You were a fool,"
Napoleon afterwards said to him in this connection, "you know nothing about revolutions."--In
effect, honor, loyalty, horror of blood, respect for the law, such are the weak points of the
party.

The opposite sentiments form the strong points of the other party. On the side of the triumvirs
nobody knows twinges of conscience, neither Barras, a condottiere open to the highest bidder,
and who understands the value of blows, nor Reubell, a sort of bull, who, becoming excited,
sees red, nor Merlin de Douai, the terrible legist, lay inquisitor and executioner in private.[5167]
As usual with the Jacobins, these men have unsheathed the sword and brandished it. In contempt
of the constitution, they provoked discussions in the army and let the Legislative Corps see
that, if it did not yield, it would be put out at the point of the bayonet. They let loose
against it, "as in the good old times,"[5168] their executive riff-raff, and line the avenues
and tribunes with "their bandits of both sexes." They collect together their gangs of roughs,
five or six thousand terrorists from Paris and the departments, and two thousand officers awaiting
orders or on half-pay. In default of Hoche, whose unconstitutional approach was reported and
then prevented, they have Augereau, arrived expressly from Italy, and who states publicly,
"I am sent for to kill the royalists." It is impossible to find a more narrow-minded and greater
military bully; Reubell, himself, on seeing him, could not help but exclaim: What a sturdy
brigand!"--On the 18th of Fructidor this official swordsman, with eight or ten thousand troops,
surrounds and invades the Tuileries. The representatives are arrested in their committee-rooms
or domiciles, or pursued, tracked and hunted down, while the rest of their opponents, notables,
officers, heads of bureaux, journalists, former ministers and directors, Barthélémy and Carnot,
are treated in the same way. Barbé-Marbois, on demanding by virtue of what law they were arrested,[5169]
is told, "by the law of the saber," while Sotin, Minister of the Police, adds with a smile,
"You may be sure that after what I have taken on myself, it matters little whether one is more
or less compromised."--Thus purged, the two Councils complete themselves their purgation; they
cancel, in forty-nine departments, the election of their colleagues; through this decree and
transportation, through forced and voluntary resignations, two hundred and fourteen representatives
are withdrawn from the Legislative Corps, while one hundred and eighty others, through fear
or disgust, cease to attend its meetings.[5170] Nothing remains of the two Councils, except,
as in the English Parliament under Cromwell, a "rump," which rump does business under drawn
swords. In the Council of the Ancients, which, on the 18th of Fructidor, discussed at midnight[5171]
the decree of transportation, "groups of grenadiers, with a haggard look, in brusque language,
with threatening gestures" and fixed bayonets, surround the amphitheatre, and, mingled with
the soldiers and civil cut-throats, shout out their orders. Such are the supporters of the
slanderous tale cooked up by the Directory. The voters need such arguments to make themselves
believe in the grand conspiracy which it denounces, to associate Barthélemy, Carnot, Siméon,
Barbé-Marbois, Boissy d'Anglas, Mathieu Dumas, Pastoret, Tronson du Coudray as accomplices
with a knot of subordinate intriguers, contemptible "monkeys" (marmosets), dolts or spies,
whose papers have been in the hands of the police for six months, and whom it forces to speak
under lock and key.[5172] All are enveloped in the same net, all are confounded together under
the same title, all are condemned en masse without evidence or formality. "Proofs!" exclaims
an orator, "none are necessary against the royalist faction. I have my own convictions."[5173]--"Formalities!"
exclaims another, "the enemies of the country cannot invoke formalities which they would have
despised had they triumphed."--"The people are there," says a third, pointing to a dozen ill-looking
men who are present; "the whole people ought to prevail against a few individuals!"--"Hurry
up!" shouts a soldier, who wants the discussion ended, "patriots, march, double-quick!"--The
debate, nevertheless, drags along, and the Government, growing impatient, is obliged to intervene
with a message: "The people," says the message, "want to know what has become of the Republic,
what you have done with it..... The conspirators have agents, even among yourselves." The message
is understood, and the representatives now understand that if they do not transport, they themselves
will be deported. Therefore, "about fourteen or fifteen stand up for the decree, while seven
are against it; the rest remain motionless:" it is thus that the decree to save the Constitution
is freely and legally passed. Four years before this a similar decree had passed to expel the
Girondists, in just the same manner, with the exception that, at that time, the Mountain made
use of the populace, while now the army is employed; but save the difference in the figurants,
the performance is simply a repetition of the same drama that was played on the 2nd of June,
and is now again played on the 18th of Fructidor.[5174]

VI. The Directory.

     Dictatorship of the Directory.--Its new prerogatives.--Purge
     of the Legislative Corps.--Purification of the
     administrative and judicial authorities.--Military
     commissions in the provinces.--Suppression of newspapers.
     --The right of voting reserved to Jacobins alone.--Despotism
     of the Directory.--Revival of Terror.--Transportation
     substituted for the guillotine.--Treatment of the deported
     on the way, in Guyana, and on the islands of Rhé and
     Oléron.--Restoration of Jacobin feudalism.

This is the way in which the government of 1793 is brought back to life:

The concentration of all public powers in the hands of an oligarchy, a dictatorship exercised
by about a hundred men grouped around five or six leaders.

More independent, more despotic and less provisional than any Committee of Public Safety, the
Directory has arrogated to itself the legal right of placing a commune in a state of siege,
of introducing troops within the constitutional circle[5175] in such a way that it may, at
its discretion, violate Paris and the Legislative Corps. In this body, mutilated by it and
watched by its hireling assassins,[5176] sit the passive mutes who feel themselves "morally
proscribed and half-deported,"[5177] who abandon debate, and vote with its stipendiaries and
valets.[5178] As a matter of fact, the two councils have, as formerly the Convention, become
chambers "of registry" of legislative mechanism charged with the duty of countersigning its
orders.--Its sway over the subordinate authorities is still more absolute. In forty-nine departments,
specially designated by decree, all the administrators of departments, cantons and municipalities,
all mayors, civil and criminal judges, all justices of the peace, all elected by popular suffrage,
are dismissed en masse,[5179] while the cleaning out in the rest of France is almost as sweeping.
We can judge by one example: in the department of Doubs, which is not put down among those
to be purged, five hundred and thirty administrators or municipal magistrates are dismissed
in 1797, and, in addition, forty-nine others in 1798. The Directory puts its creatures in their
places: suddenly, the departmental, cantonal, municipal and judicial system, which was American,
becomes Napoleonic so that the local officials, instead of being delegates of the people, are
government delegates.--Note, especially, the most threatening of all usurpations, the way in
which this government takes justice into its hands and attributes to itself the right of life
and death over persons: not only does it break up common criminal courts and reorganize them
as it pleases, not only does it renew and select among the purest Jacobins judges of the court
of appeals, but again, in each military division, it institutes a special and expeditious court
without appeal, composed of docile officers, sub-officers and soldiers, which is to condemn
and execute within twenty-four hours, under pretext of emigration or priesthood, every man
who is obnoxious to the ruling factions.--As to the twenty-five millions of subjects it has
just acquired, there is no refuge: it is forbidden even to complain. Forty-two opposition or
"suspect" journals are silenced at one stroke, their stock plundered, or their presses broken
up; three months after this, sixteen more take their turn, and, in a year, eleven others; the
proprietors, editors, publishers and contributors, among whom are La Harpe, Fontanes, Fièvé,
Michaud and Lacretelle, a large body of honorable or prominent writers, the four or five hundred
men who compose the staff of the profession, all condemned without trial to banishment,[5180]
or to imprisonment, are arrested, take flight, conceal themselves, or keep silent. The only
voice now heard in France is the mega-phone of the government.

Naturally, the faculty of voting is as restricted as the faculty of writing, so that the victors
of Fructidor, together with the right to speak, now also monopolize the right of electing.--Right
away the government renewed the decree which the expiring Convention had rendered against allies
or relations of émigrés. moreover, it excluded all relatives or supporters of the members of
the primary assemblies, and forbade the primary assemblies to choose any of these for electors.
Henceforth, all upright or even peaceful citizens consider themselves as warned and stay at
home. Voting is the act of a ruler, and therefore a privilege of the new sovereigns, which
is the view of it entertained by both sovereigns and subjects:[5181] "a republican minority
operating legally must prevail against a majority influenced by royalism."[5182] They are to
see the government on election days, launching forth "in each department its commission agents,
and controlling votes by threats and all sorts of promises and seductions,[5183] arresting
the electors and presidents of the primary assemblies," even pouncing on refractory Jacobins,
invalidating the returns of a majority when not satisfactory to them, and rendering the choice
of a minority valid, if it suited them, in short, constituting itself the chief elector of
all local and central authorities.--Finally, all institutions, laws, public and private rights,
are down, and the nation, body and soul, again becomes, as under Robespierre, the property
of its rulers with this sole difference, that the kings of Terror, postponing their constitution,
openly proclaim their omnipotence, whilst the others hypocritically rule under a constitution
which they have themselves destroyed, and reign by virtue of a title which interdicts royalty
to them.

They, too, maintain themselves by Terror; only, like so many Tartuffes, they are not disposed
to act openly as executioners. The Directory, heir to the Convention, affects to repudiate
its inheritance: "Woe," says Boulay de la Meurthe, "to whoever would re-establish scaffolds."
There is to be no guillotine; its purveyors have been too strongly denounced; they stand too
near the red stream and view with too great nervous horror those who fed it. It is better to
employ death at a distance, lingering and spontaneous, with no effusion of human blood, "dry,"
less repulsive than the other sort, but more painful and not less certain; this shall be imprisonment
on the marshes of Rochefort, and, better still, transportation to the feverish coasts of Guyanna:
there is no distinction between the mode used by the Convention and that of the Directory,
except the distinction between to kill and to cause death.[5184] Moreover, every brutality
that can be employed to repress the indignation of the proscribed by fear is exhausted on the
way.--The first convoy which bears away, with thirteen others, Barthélémy, who negotiated the
treaty of Basle, Pichegru, the conqueror of Holland, Lafond-Ladébat, president of the council
of the Five Hundred, Barbé-Marbois, president of the council of the Ancients, was at first
provided with carriages.[5185] An order of the Directory substitutes for these the prison van,
an iron car with one door bolted and padlocked, and, overhead, openings through which the rain
poured in streams, and with common boards for seats. This lumbering machine without springs
rolls along at a fast trot along the ruts in the road, each jolt sending the condemned inmates
against the hard oak sides and roof; one of these, on reaching Blois, "shows his black-and-blue
elbows." The man selected to command this escort is the vilest and most brutal reprobate in
the army, Dutertre, a coppersmith foreman before the Revolution, next an officer and sentenced
to be put in irons for stealing in the La Vendée war, and such a natural robber that he again
robs his men of their pay on the road; he is evidently qualified for his work. On stopping
at Blois, "he passes the night in an orgy with his brothers and friends," fellow-thieves and
murderers as above described. He curses Madame Barbé-Marbois who comes to take leave of her
husband, dismissing on the spot the commandant of the gendarmerie who supports her in a swoon,
and, noticing the respect and attentions which all the inhabitants, even the functionaries,
show to the prisoners, he cries out, "Well, what airs and graces for people that will perhaps
be dead in three or four days!" On the vessel which transports them, and still in sight of
Rochelle, a boat is observed rowing vigorously to overtake them and they hear a shout of "I
am Lafond-Ladébat's son! Allow me to embrace my father!" A speaking-trumpet from the vessel
replies: "Keep away or you'll be fired on!"--Their cabins, on the voyage, are noxious; they
are not allowed to be on deck more than four at a time, one hour in the morning and an hour
in the evening. The sailors and soldiers are forbidden to speak to them; their food consists
of a sailor's ration, and this is spoilt; toward the end of the voyage they are starved. In
Guyanna they are allowed one candle to a mess, and no table-linen; they lack water, or it is
not drinkable; out of sixteen taken to Sinnamary only two survive.

Those who are deported the following year, priests, monks, deputies, journalists and artisans
accused of emigration, fare worse. On all the roads leading to Rochefort, sorrowful crowds
are seen on carts or tramping along in files, on foot, the same as former chains of convicts.
"An old man of eighty-two, Monsieur Dulaurent of Quimper, thus traverses four departments,"
in irons which strangle him. Following upon this, the poor creatures, between the decks of
the "Décade" and the "Bayonnaise," crammed in, suffocated through lack of air and by the torrid
heat, badly treated and robbed, die of hunger or asphyxia, while Guyanna completes the work
of the voyage: out of 193 conveyed on board the 'Décade," only 39 remain at the end of twenty-two
months, and of the 120 brought by the 'Bayonnaise," only one is left.--Meanwhile, in France,
in the casemates of the islands of Rhé and Oléron, over twelve hundred priests become stifled
or rot away, while, on all sides, the military commissioners in the departments shoot down
vigorously. At Paris, and in its environs, at Marseilles, Lyons, Bordeaux, Rennes, and in most
of the large towns, sudden arrests and clandestine abductions go on multiplying.[5186] "Nobody,
on retiring to rest, is sure of awaking in freedom the next morning.... From Bayonne to Brussels,
there is but one sentiment, that of unbounded consternation. No one dares either to speak to,
encounter, look at or help one another. Everybody keeps aloof, trembles and hides away."--So
that through this third offensive reaction, the Jacobin Conquest is completed, and the conquering
band, the new feudalism, becomes a fixed installation. "All who pass here," writes a Tours
habitant, "state that there is no difference in the country between these times and Robespierre's[5187].....
It is certain that the soil is not tenable, and that the people are continually threatened
with exactions as in a conquered country.... Proprietors are crushed down with impositions
to such an extent that they cannot meet their daily expenses, nor pay the cost of cultivation.
In some of my old parishes the imposition takes about thirteen out of twenty sous of an income...
The interest on money amounts to four per cent. a month... Tours, a prey to the terrorists
who devour the department and hold all the offices, is in the most deplorable state; every
family at all well-off, every merchant, every trader, is leaving it."--The veteran pillagers
and murderers, the squireens, (hobereaux) of the reign of Terror, again appear and resume their
fiefs. At Toulouse, it is Barrau, a shoemaker, famous up to 1792 for his fury under Robespierre,
and Desbarreaux, another madman of 1793, formerly an actor playing the parts of valet, compelled
in 1795 to demand pardon of the audience on his knees on the stage, and, not obtaining it,
driven out of the house, and now filling the office of cashier in the theatre and posing as
department administrator. At Blois, we find the ignoble or atrocious characters with whom we
are familiar, the assassins and robbers Hézine, Giot, Venaille, Bézard, Berger, and Gidouin.[5188]
Immediately after Fructidor, they stirred up their usual supporters against the first convoy
of the deported, "the idlers, the rabble of the harbor, and the dregs of the people," who overwhelmed
them with insults. On this new demonstration of patriotism the government restores to them
their administrative or judicial "satrapies, and, odious as they are, they are endured and
obeyed, with the mute and mournful obedience of despair." The soul sinks[5189] on daily perusing
the executions of conscripts and émigrés, and on seeing those condemned to transportation constantly
passing by.... All who displease the government are set down on these lists of the dead, so-called
émigrés, this or that curé who is notoriously known not to have left the department." It is
impossible for honest people to vote at the primary assemblies; consequently, "the elections
are frightful. The "brothers" and their friends loudly proclaim that neither nobles, priests,
proprietors, merchants, nor justice are wanted; everything is to be given up to pillage." Let
France perish rather than accept their domination. "The wretches have announced that they will
not give up their places without overthrowing all, destroying palaces and setting Paris on fire."

VII. Enforcement of Pure Jacobinism.

     Application and aggravation of the laws of the reign of
     Terror.--Measures taken to impose civic religion.--Arrest,
     transportation, and execution of Priests.--Ostracism
     proposed against the entire anti-Jacobin class.--The nobles
     or the ennobled, not émigrés, are declared foreigners.
     --Decrees against émigrés of every class.--Other steps taken
     against remaining proprietors.--Bankruptcy, forced loan,
     hostages.

It is natural that with pure Jacobins one notes the re-appearance of the pure Jacobinism, the
egalitarian and anti-Christian socialism, the programme of the funereal year; in short, the
rigid, plain, exterminating ideas which the sect gathers together, like daggers encrusted with
gore, from the cast-off robes of Robespierre, Billaud-Varennes and Collot d'Herbois.[5190]

In the forefront appears the fixed and favorite idea of the old-fashioned philosophism. By
that I mean the consistent and decreed plan to found a lay religion, and impose the observances
and dogmas of its theories on twenty-six millions of Frenchmen, and, consequently extirping
Christianity, its worship and its clergy. The inquisitors who hold office multiply, with extraordinary
persistence and minuteness, proscriptions and vigorous measures for the forcible conversion
of the nation. The aim is to substitute the improvised rites of a logical abstraction mechanically
elaborated in the closet for the tender emotions nourished by the customs of eighteen centuries.--Never
did the dull imagination of a third-rate scholar and classic poetaster, never did the grotesque
solemnity of a pedant fond of his phrases, never did the irritating hardness of the narrow
and stubborn devotee display with greater sentimental bombast and more administrative officiousness
than in the decrees of the Legislative Corps,[5191] in the acts passed by the Directory and
in the instructions issued by the ministers Sotin, Letourneur, Lambrechts, Duval and François
de Neufchateau. War on Sunday, on the old calendar and on fasting, obligatory rest on the décadi
under penalty of fine and imprisonment,[5192] obligatory fêtes on the anniversaries of January
21 and Fructidor 18, participation of all functionaries with their cult, obligatory attendance
of public and private instructors with their pupils of both sexes at civic ceremonies, an obligatory
liturgy with catechisms and programmes sent from Paris, rules for scenic display and for singings,
readings, postures, acclamations and imprecations. One might shrug his shoulders at these prescriptions
of cuistres and these parades of puppets, if, behind the apostles who compose moral allegories,
we did not detect the persecutor who imprisons, tortures and murders.--By the decree of Fructidor
19, not only were all the laws of the reign of Terror against unsworn priests, their harborers
and their followers, enforced again, but the Directory arrogated to itself the right of banishing,
"through individual acts passed for cause," every ecclesiastic "who disturbed the public peace,"
that is to say who exercised his ministry and preached his faith;[5193] and, moreover, the
right of shooting down, within twenty-four hours, every priest who, banished by the laws of
1792 and 1793, has remained in or returned to France. Almost all the ecclesiastics, even those
who are sworn, are comprised within the first category; the administration enumerates 366 in
the department of Doubs alone,[5194] and 556 in that of Hérault. Thousands of ecclesiastics
are comprised in the second category; the administration enumerates over 800 who, returned
from the frontier of Spain alone, still wander about the southern departments. On the strength
of this the moralists in office proclaim a hunt for the black game in certain places, an universal
destruction without exception or reprieve. For instance, in Belgium, recently incorporated
with France, the whole of the regular and secular clergy is proscribed en masse and tracked
for transportation; 560 ecclesiastics in "Ourthe and the forests", 539 in Escaut, 883 in Jemmapes,
884 in Sambre-et-Meuse, 925 in la Lys, 957 in Deux-Nèthes, 1,043 in Meuse-Inférieure, 1,469
in Dyle, in all 7,260, without counting the missing names.[5195] A number of them escape abroad
or hide away; but the rest are caught, and quite enough of them to load and fill the carts
constantly.--"Not a day passes," says an inhabitant of Blois,[5196] "when from seven to twenty
and more are lodged at the Carmelites." The next day they set out for the casemates of Rhé
and Oléron, or for the Sinnamary marshes, where it is known what becomes of them: after a few
months, three-fourths of them lie in the cemetery.--In the interior, from time to time, some
are shot as an example--seven at Besançon, one at Lyons, three in the Bouches-du-Rhône, while
the opponents of fanaticism, the official philanthropists, the enlightened deists of Fructidor,
use all these disguised or declared murders as a basis on which to rear the cult of Reason.

It remains now to consolidate the worship of Reason with the reign of Equality, which is the
second article in the Jacobin credo. The object now is to mow down all the heads which rise
above the common level, and, this time, to mow them down, not one by one, but in large groups.
Saint-Just himself had only covertly proposed so extensive and so sweeping an operation. Siéyès,
Merlin de Douai, Reubell, Chazal, Chénier, and Boulay de la Meurthe, more openly and decidedly
insist on a radical amputation. According to them,[5197] it is necessary "to regulate this
ostracism," by banishing "all those whose prejudices, pretensions, even existence, in a word,
are incompatible with republican government." That is to say, not alone priests, but likewise
nobles and the ennobled, all parliamentarians, those who are well-off and distinguished among
the bourgeoisie and former notables, about two hundred thousand property-holders, men and women;
in short, all who still remained among those oppressed and ruined by the Revolution.[5198]--The
proposal was turned down by the ex-noble Barras and by the public out-cry "of merchants and
workmen themselves," and banishment is replaced by civic degradation. Henceforth,[5199] every
noble or ennobled person, even if he has not left the territory, even if he has constantly
and punctually obeyed revolutionary laws, even if he be not related to, or allied with, any
émigré, finds himself deprived of his quality as a Frenchman. The fact alone of his being ennobled
or noble before 1789, obliged him to be naturalized according to legal forms and conditions.--As
to the 150,000 gentlemen, artisans and farmers who have emigrated or who have been accused
of emigration, if they have returned to, or remain in France, they are to leave Paris and all
communes above 20,000 souls within twenty-four hours, and France in fifteen days. If not, they
are to be arrested, brought before the military commissions and shot on the spot;[51100] in
fact, in many places, at Paris, Besançon and Lyons, they are shot.--Now, a large number of
pretended emigrants, who had never left France,[51101] nor even their province, nor even their
commune, and whose names have been put on the lists simply to strip them of their property,
find that they are no longer protected either by the constancy or the notoriety of their residence.
The new law is no sooner read than they begin to imagine the firing squad; the natal soil is
too warm for them and they speedily emigrate.[51102] On the other hand, once the name is down
on the list, rightly or wrongly, it is never removed. The government purposely refuses to strike
it off, while two decrees are applied which render its removal impossible;[51103] each name
maintained on the list of spoliation and death relieves the Revolution of a probable adversary,
and places one more domain at its disposal.

The Directory renews and aggravates the measures of the Convention against the remainder of
the property-holders: there is no longer a disguised but a declared bankruptcy. 386,000 fund-holders
and pensioners are deprived of two-thirds of their revenue and of their capital.[51104] A forced
loan of 100 millions is levied progressively, and wholly on "the well-off class." Finally,
there is the law of hostages, this being atrocious, conceived in the spirit of September, 1792,
suggested by the famous motions of Collot d'Herbois against those in confinement, and of Billaud-Varennes
against the youth, Louis XVII., but extended, elaborated and drawn up with cool legal acumen,
and enforced and applied with the foresight of an administrator.--Remark that, without counting
the Belgian departments, where an extensive insurrection is under way and spreading, more than
one-half of the territory falls under the operation of this law. for, out of the eighty-six
departments of France,[51105] properly so called, forty-five are at this moment, according
to the terms of the decree,[51106] "declared to be in a state of civil uprising." Actually,
in these departments, according to official reports, armed mobs of conscripts are resisting
the authorities charged with recruiting them, bands of two hundred, three hundred and eight
hundred men overrun the country, troops of brigands force open the prisons, assassinate the
gendarmes and set their inmates free; the tax-collectors are robbed, killed or maimed, municipal
officers slain, proprietors ransomed, estates devastated, and diligences stopped on the highways."
Now, in all these cases, in all the departments, cantons or communes, three classes of persons,
at first the relations and allies of the émigrés, next the former nobles and ennobled, and
finally the "fathers, mothers, grandfathers and grandmothers of persons who, without being
ex-nobles or relations of émigrés," nevertheless form a part of the bands or mobs, are declared
"personally and civilly responsible" for the violent acts committed. Even when these acts are
only "imminent," the administration of the department must, in its report, give a list of all
the men and women who are responsible; these are to be taken as "hostages," and kept in confinement
at their own expense in the local jail. If they escape, they must be put on the same footing
as émigrés, that is to say punished with death. If any damage is sustained, they are to pay
costs; if any murder is committed or abduction effected, four amongst them must be deported.
Observe, moreover, that the local authorities are obliged, under severe penalties, to execute
the law at once. Note that, at this date, they are ultra Jacobin, since to inscribe on the
list of hostages, not a noble or a bourgeois, but an honest peasant or respectable artisan,
it suffices for these local sovereigns to designate his son or grandson, who might either be
absent, fugitive or dead, as being "notoriously "insurgent or refractory. The fortunes, liberties
and lives of every individual in easy circumstances are thus legally surrendered to the despotism,
cupidity and hostility of the levelers in office.--Contemporaries estimate that 200,000 persons
were affected by this law.[51107] The Directory, during the three months of existence yet remaining
to it, enforces it in seventeen departments; thousands of women and old men are arrested, put
in confinement, and ruined, while several are sent off to Cayenne--and this is called respect
for the rights of man.

VIII. Propaganda and Foreign Conquests.

     Propaganda and foreign conquests.--Proximity and advantages
     of Peace.--Motives of the Fructidorians for breaking off
     peace negotiations with England, and for abandoning the
     invasion of foreign countries.--How they found new
     republics.--How governed.--Estimate of foreign rapine.
     --Number of French lives sacrificed in the war.

After the system which the Fructidoreans establish in France, we may consider the system they
impose abroad--always the same contrast, between the name and the thing, the same phrases covering
the same misdeeds, and, under proclamations of liberty the institution of brigandage.--Undoubtedly,
in any invaded province which thus passes from an old to a new despotism, fine words cleverly
spoken produce at first the intended effect. But, in a few weeks or months, the ransomed, enlisted
and forcibly "Frenchified" inhabitants, discover that the revolutionary right is much more
oppressive, more harassing and more rapacious than divine right.

It is the right of the strongest. The reigning Jacobins know no other, abroad as well as at
home, and, in the use they make of it, they are not restrained like ordinary statesmen, by
a thorough comprehension of the interests of the State, by experience and tradition, by far-reaching
plans, by an estimate of present and future strength. Being a sect, they subordinate France
to their dogmas, and, with the narrow views, pride and arrogance of the sectary, they profess
the same intolerance, the same need of domination and his instincts for propagandas and invasion.--This
belligerent and tyrannical spirit they had already displayed under the Legislative Assembly,
and they are intoxicated with it under the Convention. After Thermidor,[51108] and after Vendémiaire,
they remained the same; they became rigid against "the faction of old boundaries," and against
any moderate policy; at first, against the pacific minority, then against the pacific majority,
against the entreaties of all France, against their own military director, "the organizer of
victory " Carnot, who, as a good Frenchman, is not desirous of gratuitously increasing the
embarrassments of France nor of taking more than France could usefully and surely keep.--If,
before Fructidor, his three Jacobin colleagues, Reubell, Barras and La Révellière, broke with
him, it was owing not merely to inside matters, but also to outside matters, as he opposed
their boundless violent purposes. They were furious on learning the preliminary treaty of Leoben,
so advantageous to France; they insulted Carnot, who had effected it;[51109] when Barthélémy,
the ablest and most deserving diplomat in France, became their colleague, his recommendations,
so sensible and so well warranted, obtained from them no other welcome than derision.[51110]
They already desire, and obstinately, to get possession of Switzerland, lay hands on Hamburg,
"humiliate England," and "persevere in the unlucky system of the Committee of Public Safety,"
that is to say, in the policy of war, conquest and propaganda. Now that the 18th Fructidor
is accomplished, Barthélémy deported, and Carnot in flight, this policy is going to be applied
everywhere.

Never had peace been so near at hand;[51111] they almost had)it in their grasp; conference
at Lille it was only necessary to take complete hold of it. England, the last and most tenacious
of her enemies, was disarming; not only did she accept the aggrandizement of France, the acquisition
of Belgium and the left bank of the Rhine, the avowed as well as the disguised annexations,
the great Republic as patron and the smaller ones as clients, Holland, Genoa, and the Cis-Alpine
country, but, again, she restored all her own conquests, all the French colonies, all the Dutch
colonies, except the Cape of Good Hope,[51112] and all the Spanish colonies except Trinidad.
All that amour-propre could demand was obtained, and they obtained more than could be prudently
expected; there was not a competent and patriotic statesman in France who would not have signed
the treaty with the greatest satisfaction.--But the motives which, before Fructidor, animated
Carnot and Barthélémy, the motives which, after Fructidor, animated Colchen and Maret, do not
animate the Fructidoreans. France is of but little consequence to them; they are concerned
only for their faction, for power, and for their own persons. La Révellière, president of the
Directory, through vainglory, "wanted to have his name go with the general peace;" but he is
controlled by Barras, who needs war in order to fish in troubled waters,[51113] and especially
by Reubell, a true Jacobin in temperament and intellect, "ignorant and vain, with the most
vulgar prejudices of an uneducated and illiterate man," one of those coarse, violent, narrow
sectarians anchored on a fixed idea and whose "principles consist in revolutionizing everything
with cannon-balls without examining wherefore."[51114] There is no need of knowing the wherefore;
the animal instinct of self-preservation suffices to impel the Jacobins onward, and, for a
long time, their clear-sighted men, among them Siéyès, their thinker and oracle, have told
them that "if they make peace they are lost."[51115]--To exercise their violence within they
require peril without; lacking the pretext of public safety they cannot prolong their usurpation,
their dictatorship, their despotism, their inquisition, their proscriptions, their exactions.
Suppose that peace is effected, will it be possible for the government, hated and despised
as it is, to maintain and elect its minions against public clamor at the coming elections?
Will so many retired generals consent to live on half-pay, indolent and obedient? Will Hoche,
so ardent and so absolute, will Bonaparte, who already meditates his coup-d'état,[51116] be
willing to stand sentry for four petty lawyers or litterateurs without any titles and for Barras,
a street-general, who never saw a regular battle? Moreover on this skeleton of France, desiccated
by five years of spoliation, how can the armed swarm be fed even provisionally, the swarm,
which, for two years past, subsists only through devouring neighboring nations? Afterwards,
how disband four hundred thousand hungry officers and soldiers? And how, with an empty Treasury,
supply the millions which, by a solemn decree, under the title of a national recompense, have
once more just been promised to them.[51117] Nothing but a prolonged war, or designedly begun
again, a war indefinitely and systematically extended, a war supported by conquest and pillage
can give armies food, keep generals busy, the nation resigned, the maintenance of power of
the ruling faction, and secure to the Directors their places, their profits, their dinners
and their mistresses. And this is why they, at first, break with England through repeated exactions,
and then with Austria and the Emperor, through premeditated attacks, and again with Switzerland,
Piedmont, Tuscany, Naples, Malta, Russia and even the Porte.[51118] At length, the veils fall
and the character of the sect stands out nakedly. Defense of the country, deliverance of the
people, all its grand phrases disappear in the realm of empty words. It reveals itself just
as it is, an association of pirates on a cruise, who after ravaging their own coast, go further
off and capture bodies and goods, men and things. Having eaten France, the Parisian band undertakes
to eat all Europe, "leaf by leaf, like the head of an artichoke."[51119]

Why recount the tragic comedy they play at home and which they repeat abroad? The piece abroad
is the same as that played in Paris for the past eight years,[51120] an absurd, hasty translation
in Flemish, Dutch, German, and Italian, a local adaptation, just as it happens, with variations,
elisions and abbreviations, but always with the same ending, a shower of blows with gun and
sword on all property-owners, communities, and individuals, compelling the surrender of their
purses and valuables of every description, and which they gave up, even to remaining without
a sou or even a shirt. As a rule, the nearest general, or resident titulary in every small
state which has to be turned to account, stirs up malcontents against the established authorities,
never lacking under the ancient régime, especially all social outcasts, adventurers, coffee-house
ranters and young hot-heads, in short the Jacobins of the country; these, to the French representative,
are henceforth the people of the country, if only a knot of the vilest sort. The legal authorities
are forbidden to repress them, or punish them; they are inviolable. Employing threats or main
force, he interferes in their support, or to sanction their assaults; he breaks up, or obliges
them to break up, the vital organ of society; here, royalty or aristocracy, there, the senate
and the magistracy, everywhere the old hierarchy, all cantonal, provincial and municipal statutes
and secular federation or constitutions. He then inaugurates on this cleared ground the government
of Reason, that is to say, some artificial imitation of the French constitution; he himself,
to this end, appoints the new magistrates. If he allows them to be elected, it is by his clients
and under his bayonets; this constitutes a subject republic under the name of an ally, and
which commissioners dispatched from Paris manage to the beat of the drum. The revolutionary
régime with anti-Christian despoiling and leveling laws, is despotically applied. The 18th
of Fructidor is carried out over and over again; the constitution is revised according to the
last Parisian pattern, while the Legislative Corps and Directory are repeatedly purged in military
fashion.[51121] Only valets are tolerated at the head of it: its army is added to the French
army; twenty thousand Swiss are drafted in Switzerland and made to fight against the Swiss
and the friends of Switzerland. Belgium, incorporated with France, is subjected to the conscription.
National and religious sentiment suppressed, exploited, offended, to the extend of stirring
up insurrections,[51122] religious and national. Five or six rural and lasting Vendées take
place in Belgium, Switzerland, Piedmont, Venetia, Lombardy, the Roman States and Naples, while
fire, pillaging and shooting are employed to repress them. Any description of this would be
feeble; statements in figures are necessary and I can give but two.

One of them is the list of robberies committed abroad,[51123] and this comprises only the rapine
executed according to order; it omits private plunderings without any orders by officers, generals,
soldiers and commissaries; these are enormous, but cannot be estimated. The only approximate
total which can be arrived at, is the authentic list of robberies which the Jacobin corsair,
authorized by letters of marque, had already committed in December, 1798, outside of France,
on public or on private parties; exactions in coin imposed in Belgium, Holland, Germany and
Italy, amounting to 655 millions; seizure and removal of gold and silver objects, plate, jewels,
works of art and other precious objects, 305 millions; requisitions of provisions, 361 millions;
confiscations of the property, real estate and movables, of deposed sovereigns, that of the
regular and secular clergy, that of corporations and associations even laic, of absent or fugitive
proprietors, 700 millions; in all, in three years 2 billion livres.--If we closely examine
this monstrous sum, we find, as in the coffers of an Algerian pirate, a booty which up to this
time, belligerent Christians, commanders of regular armies, would have shrunk from taking,
and on which the Jacobin chiefs incontinently and preferably lay hands:

* the plate and furniture of churches in the Netherlands, in Liège, and in the Electoral sections
of the Lower Rhine, 25 millions;

* the plate and furniture of churches in Lombardy, in the three Legations, in the State of
Venice, in Modena, and the States of the Church, 65 millions;

* diamonds, plate, gold crosses and other depots of the Monts.de-piété at Milan, Bologna, Ravenna,
Modena, Venice and Rome, 56 millions;

* furniture and works of art at Milan and in other towns, 5 millions;

* furniture and works of art in the Venetian towns and palaces of Brenta, 6, 500,000;

* the spoils of Rome sacked, as formerly by the mercenaries of the Duc de Bourbon, collections
of antiques, pictures, bronzes, statues, the treasures of the Vatican and of palaces, jewels,
even the pastoral ring of the Pope, which the Directorial commissary himself wrests from the
Pope's finger, 43 millions,

and all this without counting analogous articles, and especially direct assessments levied
on this or that individual as rich or a proprietor,[51124] veritable ransoms, similar to those
demanded by the bandits of Calabria and Greece, extorted from any traveler they surprise on
the highway.--

Naturally operations of this kind cannot be carried on without instruments of constraint; the
Parisian manipulators must have military automatons, "saber hilts" in sufficient numbers. Now,
through constant slashing, a good many hilts break, and the broken ones must be replaced; in
October, 1798, 200,000 new ones are required, while the young men drafted for the purpose fail
to answer the summons and fly, and even resist with arms, especially in Belgium,[51125] by
maintaining a revolt for many months, with this motto: "Better die here than elsewhere."[51126]
To compel their return, they are hunted down and brought to the depot with their hands tied.
If they hide away, soldiers are stationed in their parents' houses. If the conscript or drafted
man has sought refuge in a foreign country, even in an allied country as in Spain, he is officially
inscribed on the list of émigrés, and therefore, in case of return, shot within twenty-four
hours; meanwhile, his property is sequestrated and likewise that of "his father, mother and
grandparents."[51127]--"Formerly," says a contemporary, "reason and philosophy thundered against
the rigors of punishment inflicted on deserters; but, since French reason has perfected Liberty
it is no longer the small class of regular soldiers whose evasion is punished with death, but
an entire generation. An extreme penalty no longer suffices for these legislative philanthropists:
they add confiscation, they despoil parents for the misdemeanors of their children, and render
even women responsible for a military and personal offence."

Such is the admirable calculation of the Directory--that, if it loses a soldier it gains a
patrimony, and if the patrimony fails, it recovers the soldier: in any event, it fills its
coffers and its ranks, while the faction, well supplied with men, may continue turning all
Europe to account, wasting, in the operation, as many French lives as it pleases; requiring
more than one hundred thousand men per annum, which, including those which the Convention has
squandered, makes nearly nine hundred thousand in eight years.[51128] At this moment the five
Directors and their minions are completing the mowing down of the virile, adult strength of
the nation,[51129] and we have seen through what motives and for what object. I do not believe
that any civilized nation was ever sacrificed in the same way, for such a purpose and by such
rulers: the crippled remnant of a faction and sect, some hundreds of preachers no longer believing
in their creed, usurpers as despised as they are detested, second-rate parvenus raised their
heads not through their capacity or merit, but through the blind upheavals of a revolution,
swimming on the surface for lack of weight, and, like foul scum, borne along to the crest of
the wave-such are the wretches who strangle France under the pretence of setting her free,
who bleed her under the pretence of making her strong, who conquer populations under the pretence
of emancipating them, who despoil people under the pretence of regenerating them, and who,
from Brest to Lucerne, from Amsterdam to Naples, slay and rob wholesale, systematically, to
strengthen the incoherent dictatorship of their brutality, folly and corruption.

IX. National Disgust.

     National antipathy to the established order of things.
     --Paralysis of the State.--Internal discords of the Jacobin
     party.--Coup d'État of Floréal 22, year VI.--Coup d'État of
     Prairial 30, year VII.--Impossibility of establishing a
     viable government.--Plans of Barras and Siéyès.

Once again has triumphant Jacobinism shown its anti-social nature, its capacity for destruction,
its impotence to re-construct.--The nation, vanquished and discouraged, no longer resists,
but, if it submits it is as to a pestilence, while its transportations, its administrative
purifications, its decrees placing towns in a state of siege, its daily violence, only exasperate
the mute antipathy.

"Everything has been done," says an honest Jacobin,[51130] "to alienate the immense majority
of citizens from the Revolution and the Republic, even those who had contributed to the downfall
of the monarchy... Instead of seeing the friends of the Revolution increase as we have advanced
on the revolutionary path.... we see our ranks thinning out and the early defenders of liberty
deserting our cause."

It is impossible for the Jacobins to rally France and reconcile her to their ways and dogmas,
and on this point their own agents leave no illusion.

"Here," writes the Troyes agent,[51131] "public spirit not only needs to be revived, but it
needs to be re-created. Scarcely one-fifth of the citizens side with the government, and this
fifth is hated and despised by the majority.... Who attend upon and celebrate the national
fêtes? Public functionaries whom the law summons to them, and many of these fêtes often dispense
with them. It is the same public spirit which does not allow honest folks to take part in them
and in the addresses made at them, and which keeps those women away who ought to be their principal
ornament.... The same public spirit looks only with indifference and contempt on the republican,
heroic actions given on the stage, and welcomes with transport all that bears any allusion
to royalty and the ancient régime. The parvenus themselves of the Revolution, the generals,
the deputies, dislike Jacobin institutions;[51132] they place children in the chapel schools
and send them to the confessional, while the deputies who, in '92 and '93, showed the most
animosity to priests, do not consider their daughter well brought up unless she has made her
first communion. "--

The little are still more hostile than the great.

"A fact unfortunately too true," writes the commissary of a rural canton,[51133] "is that the
people en masse seem not to want any of our institutions.... It is considered well-bred, even
among country folks, to show disdain for everything characteristic of republican usages...
Our rich farmers, who have profited most by the Revolution, are the bitterest enemies of its
forms: any citizen who depended on them for the slightest favor and thought it well to address
them as citizen, would be turned out of their houses."

To call someone Citizen is an insult, and patriot a still greater one; for this term signifies
Jacobin, partisan, murderer, robber[51134] and, as they were then styled, "man-eaters." What
is worse is that a falsification of the word has brought discredit on the thing.--Nobody, say
the reports, troubles himself about the general interest;[51135] nobody will serve as national
guard or mayor.

"Public spirit has fallen into such a lethargic slumber as to make one fear its complete collapse.
Our successes or our failures excite neither uneasiness nor pleasure.[51136] It seems, on reading
the accounts of battles, as if it were the history of another people. The changes that take
place within our borders no longer excite any emotion; one asks out of curiosity, one is answered
without any interest, one learns with indifference."

"The pleasures of Paris[51137] are not disturbed a moment by any the Crises which succeed each
other, nor by those which are feared. Never were the theatres and public entertainments more
frequented. At the 'Tivoli,' it is said that it is going to be worse than ever; the country
(patrie) is called la patraque, and dancing goes on."

This is understandable enough; how can one interest one's self in the public weal when there
is none, when the common patrimony of all has become the private property of a gang, when this
gang is devouring or wasting all in the interior and outside the frontier, where it is playing
heads or tails? The Jacobins, through their final victory, have dried patriotism up, that is
to say, the deep inward spring which supplies the substance, the vitality and the force of
the State.--In vain do they multiply rigorous decrees and imperious prescriptions; each energetic
blow is absorbed by the general and mute resistance of intentional passivity and of insurmountable
disgust. They do not obtain from their subjects any of that unconscious obedience, that degree
of passive co-operation, without which the law remains a dead letter.[51138] Their Republic,
so young,

"is attacked by that nameless malady which commonly attacks only old governments, a species
of senile consumption to which one can give no other definition than that of the difficulty
of living; nobody strives to overthrow it, although it seems to have lost the power of standing
erect."[51139]

Not only does their domination paralyze instead of animating the State, but, with their own
hands, they undermine the order they themselves have established. Whether legal or extra-legal,
it makes no difference: under their rule, no constitution, made and remade, no government,
not even that of their leaders, can survive. Once masters of France, they quarrel over it amongst
themselves, each claiming for himself the whole of the prey. Those who are in office want to
stay there; those who are out want to get in. Thus is formed two factions, while each repeats
against the other the coup d'état which both have together carried out against the nation.--According
to the ruling clique, its adversaries are simply "anarchists," former Septembriseurs, Robespierre's
confederates, the accomplices of Babeuf, eternal conspirators. Now, as in the year VI., the
five regents still keep the saber-hilt firm in their grasp, and can therefore make the Legislative
Corps to vote as they please. On the 22nd of Floréal, the government cancels, in whole or in
part, in forty-five departments, the new elections, not alone those of representatives, but
again those of judges, public prosecutors, and the grand-jurymen. Then it dismisses the terrorist
administrations in the departments and towns.[51140]--According to their adversaries (la coterie
gouvernée), the Directory and its agents are false patriots, usurpers, oppressors, despisers
of the law, squanderers and inept politicians. As all this is true, and as the Directory, in
the year VIII., used up through its twenty-one months of omnipotence, out of credit on account
of its reverses, despised by its generals, hated by the beaten and unpaid army, dares no longer
and can no longer raise the sword, the ultra Jacobins resume the offensive, have themselves
elected through their kith and kin, re-conquer the majority in the Legislative Corps, and,
in their turn, purge the Directory on the 30 of Prairial. Treilhard, Merlin de Douai, and La
Revellière-Lepaux are driven out; narrow fanatics replace them, Gohier, Moulins and Roger Ducos.
Ghosts from the period of the Terror install themselves in the ministries, Robert Lindet in
the Treasury, Fouché in the Police. Everywhere, in the departments, they put in or restore
"the exclusives," that is to say, the resolute scoundrels who have proved their capacity.[51141]
The Jacobins re-open their Club under its old name in the hall of the Manége. Two directors
and one hundred and fifty members of the Legislative Corps fraternize with "all that the dregs
of the people provide that is vilest and most disgusting." Eulogies are here pronounced on
Robespierre and on Babeuf himself; they demand the levy en masse and the disarming of "suspects."
Jourdan exclaims in a toast, "Here's to the resurrection of pikes! May they in the people's
hands crush out all its enemies!" In the council of the Five Hundred, the same Jourdan proposes
in the tribune to declare the "country in danger," while the gang of shouting politicians,
the bull-dogs of the streets and tribunes, gather around the hesitating representatives and
howl and threaten as in 1793.

Is it, then, the régime of 1793 which is about to be set up in France?--Not even that one.
Immediately after the victory, the victors 30 of Prairial separated and formed two camps of
enemies, watching each other with arms in hand, entrenched and making sorties on each other:

On one side are the simple bandits and the lowest of the populace, the followers of Marat,
incorrigible monomaniacs, headstrong, conceited spirits proud of their crimes and disposed
to repeat them rather than admit their guilt, the dogmatic simpletons who go ahead with their
eyes shut and who have forgotten everything and learnt nothing. On the other side, men still
possessing common sense, and who have profited somewhat by experience, who know what a government
of clubs and pikes leads to, who fear for themselves and are unwilling to begin again, step
by step, the mad course on which at each stage, they have come near perishing.

On one side two members of the Directory, the minority of the Ancients, the majority of the
Five Hundred, and the vilest of the Parisian rabble. On the other, the majority of the Ancients,
the minority of the Five Hundred and three members of the Directory, the latter supported by
their executive staff.[51142]--

Which of the two troops will crush the other? Nobody knows; for most of them are ready to pass
from one to the other camp according as the chances for success appear more or less great.
And, from day to day, any defection amongst the Five Hundred, amongst the Ancients or in the
Directory, foreseen or not, may change a minority into a majority. Where will the majority
be to-morrow? From which side is the next coup d'état to come--Who will make it? Will it be
the ultra Jacobins, and, through another 9th of Thermidor, will they declare the mitigated
Jacobins "outlaws?" Will it be the mitigated Jacobins, and, through another 18th of Fructidor,
will they put the ultras under lock and key? If one or the other of these blows is struck,
will it succeed? And if it succeeds will a stable government be at last established? Siéyès
well knows that it will not; he is farseeing in his acts, although chimerical in his theories.
In power himself, titular Director, counselor and guardian of the intelligent republic against
the stupid republic, he well knows that all of them, so long as they are republicans of both
bands, take a road without an issue.[51143] Barras is of the same opinion, and taking time
by the forelock, turns around and promises Louis XVIII. his co-operation in restoring the legitimate
monarchy in exchange he receives letters patent granting him full pardon, exemption from all
future prosecution and a promise of twelve millions.--Siéyès, more sagacious, seeks force where
it exists, in the army; he prepares Joubert, sounds Moreati, thinks of Jourdan, of Bernadotte
and of Macdonald, before surrendering himself to Bonaparte; "he requires a sword." Boulay de
la Meurthe, comparing in a pamphlet the English revolution with the French revolution, announces
and brings on the establishment of a military protectorate.--"The Constitution of the year
III. will not work," said Baudin, one of the Five Hundred, to Cornet, one of the Ancients,
"only I do not see where to find the executive arm." The Jacobin republic still lives, and
its servants, its doctors, already speak aloud of its interment the same as strangers and heirs
in the room of a dying man who has become unconscious, like Tiberius when sinking in his palace
at Misene.[51144]--If the expiring man does not go fast enough some one will help him. The
old monster, borne down with crimes and rotten with vices, rattles in his throat on his purple
cushions; his eyes are closed, his pulse is feeble, and he gasps for breath. Here and there,
around is bed, stand groups of those who minister to his debauches at Capri and his murders
at Rome, his minions and executioners who publicly take part in the new reign; the old one
is finished; one need no longer be circumspect and mute before corpse. Suddenly the dying man
opens his eyes, speaks and asks for food. The military tribune, " the executive arm," boldly
clears the apartment; he throws a pile of bedclothes over the old man's head and quickens the
last sigh. Such is the final blow; an hour later and breathing stops.

X. Contrast between Civil and Military France.

     Anti-social character of the sect and the faction.--Contrast
     between civil and military France.--Elements of
     reorganization in institutions, habits, and in military
     sentiments.--Character of the régime instituted on the 18th
     of Brumaire, year VIII.

If the Jacobin Republic dies, it is not merely on account of decay, nor because of its murders,
but, and above all, because it is not born viable: at the outset it harbored within itself
a principle of dissolution an innate mortal poison, not alone for others but for itself.--That
which maintains a political society is the mutual respect of its members, especially the respect
of the governed for its rulers and of the rulers for the governed, and, therefore, habits of
mutual trust and confidence. On the part of the governed, a well-grounded certainty that the
rulers will not attack private rights, and, on the part of the rulers, a well-founded certainty
that the governed will not attack public powers; both inwardly recognizing that these rights,
more or less broad or restricted, are inviolable; that these powers, more or less ample or
limited, are legitimate. Finally, each being convinced that, in case of conflict, the trial
will be conducted according to forms which law or custom provide; that pending the discussion,
the strongest will not abuse his strength, and that, when the discussion is over, the successful
party will not wholly sacrifice the loser. Only on this condition can there be harmony between
governors and the governed, participation of all in the common work, internal tranquility,
and, accordingly, stability, security, well-being and force. Without this deep and persistent
disposition of minds and hearts, the bond of union among men is absent. It constitutes the
brightest of social sentiments; it may be said that this is the soul of which the State is
the body.--Now, in the Jacobin State, this soul has perished; it has not died out through unforeseen
accidents, but through a forced result of the system, through a practical effect of the speculative
theory, which, converting each man into an absolute sovereign, sets every man warring against
other men, and which, under the pretence of regenerating the human species, lets loose, authorizes
and consecrates the worst instincts of human nature, all the lusts of license, tyranny and
domination.--In the name of a non-existent ideal people whom it declares sovereign, the Jacobins
have violently usurped all public powers, brutally abolished all private rights, regarding
the actual living people as a beast of burden, and yet worse, as a robot, subjecting their
human machine to the cruelest restraints in order to mechanically maintain it in the unnatural,
rigid posture, which, according to principles, they inflict upon it. Thenceforth, all ties
are sundered between them and the nation; to prey upon, bleed and starve this nation, to re-conquer
it after it bad escaped them, to repeatedly enchain and gag it--all this they could well do;
but to reconcile it to their government, never!--Between them, and for the same reason, through
another consequence of the same theory, and another effect of the same lusts, no bond between
them would hold. Each faction inside of the party, having forged its ideal people according
to its own logical process and necessities, exercised the orthodox privilege of claiming the
monopoly of sovereignty.[51145] To secure the benefits of omnipotence, it has combated its
rivals with falsified, annulled or constrained elections, with plots and mendacity, with ambushes
and sudden assaults, with the pikes of the rabble and with the bayonets of soldiers. It has
then massacred, guillotined, shot, and deported the vanquished as tyrants, traitors or rebels,
and survivors do not forget this. They have learnt what their so called eternal constitutions
amount to; they know how to estimate their proclamations and oaths, their respect for law,
justice, their humanity; they understand them and know that they are all so many fraternal
Cains,[51146] all more or less debased, dangerous, soiled and depraved by their work; the distrust
is irremediable. They can still turn out manifests, decrees and cabals, and get up revolutions,
but they can no longer agree amongst themselves and heartily defer to the justified ascendancy
and recognized authority of any one or among their own body.--After ten years of mutual assault
there is not one among the three thousand legislators who have sat in the sovereign assemblies
that can count on the deference and loyalty of a hundred Frenchmen. The social body is disintegrated;
amongst the millions of disconnected atoms not a nucleus of spontaneous cohesion and stable
co-ordination remains. It is impossible for civil France to reconstruct itself; as impossible
as it would be to build a Notre Dame of Paris, or a St. Peter's of Rome out of the slime of
the streets or the dust of the highways.

With military France it is otherwise. Here, men have made trial of each other, and are devoted
to each other, subordinates to their leaders, and all to one great work. The sentiments are
strong and healthy which bind human wills in a cluster of mutual sympathy, trust, esteem and
admiration, and all these super abound, while the free companionship which still subsists between
inferior and superior,[51147] that gay unrestrained familiarity so dear to the French, draws
the knot still closer. In this world unsullied by political defilements and ennobled by habits
of abnegation,[51148] there is all that constitutes an organized and visible society, a hierarchy,
not external and veneered, but moral and deep-seated, with uncontested titles, recognized superiorities,
an accepted subordination, rights and duties stamped on all consciences, in brief, what has
always been wanting in revolutionary institutions, the discipline of sentiments and emotions.
Give to these men a countersign and they do not discuss; provided it is legal, or seems so,
they act accordingly, not merely against strangers, but against Frenchmen: thus, already on
the 13th Vendémiaire they mowed down the Parisians, and on the 18th of Fructidor they purged
the Legislative Corps. Let a famous general appear, and provided he respects formalities, they
will follow him and once more repeat the operation.--One does appear, one who for three years
has thought of nothing else, but who on this occasion will repeat the operation only for his
own advantage. He is the most illustrious of all, and precisely the conductor or promoter of
the two previous ones, the very same who personally brought about the 13th of Vendémiaire,
and likewise, at the hands of his lieutenant, Augereau, the 18th of Fructidor.--Let him be
authorized by the semblance of a decree, let him be appointed major-general of the armed force
by a minority of one of the Councils, and the army will march behind him.--Let him issue the
usual proclamations, let him summon "his comrades" to save the Republic and clear the hall
of the Five Hundred; his grenadiers will enter with fixed bayonets and even laugh at the sight
of the deputies, dressed as for the opera, scrambling off precipitately out of the windows.[51149]--Let
him manage the transitions, let him avoid the ill-sounding name of dictator, let him assume
a modest and yet classic revolutionary Roman title, let him along with two others be simple
consuls; the soldiers, who have neither time nor leisure to be publicists and who are only
skin-deep republicans, will ask nothing more. They regard their system as a very good one for
the French people, the despotic system without which there can be no army, that which places
the absolute command in the hands of one individual.--Let him put down other Jacobins, let
him revoke their late decrees on hostages and the forced loan, let him restore safety and security
to persons, property and consciences; let him bring back order, economy and efficiency to the
administrations; let him provide for public services, hospitals, roads and schools, the whole
of civil France will welcome its liberator, protector and restorer.[51150]--In his own words,
the system he brings is that of "the alliance of Philosophy with the Sword," philosophy meaning,
as it was then understood, the application of abstract principles to politics, the logical
construction of a State according to general and simple notices with a social plan, uniform
and rectilinear. Now as we have seen,[51151] two of these plans square with this theory, one
anarchical and the other despotic; naturally, the master adopts the latter, and, like a practical
man, he builds according to that theory a substantial edifice, with sand and lime, habitable
and well suited to its purposes. All the masses of the great work-civil code, university, Concordat,
prefectoral and centralized administration-all the details of its arrangement and distribution
of places, tend to one general effect, which is the omnipotence of the State, the omnipresence
of the government, the abolition of local and private initiative, the suppression of voluntary
free association, the gradual dispersion of small spontaneous groupings, the preventive ban
of prolonged hereditary works, the extinction of sentiments by which the individual lives beyond
himself in the past or in the future. Never were finer barracks constructed, more symmetrical
and more decorative in aspect, more satisfactory to superficial views, more acceptable to vulgar
good sense, more suited to narrow egoism, better kept and cleaner, better adapted to the discipline
of the average and low elements of human nature, and better adapted to dispersing or perverting
the superior elements of human nature. In this philosophical barracks we have lived for eighty
years.

THE END.

(written in 1889).

*****

[Footnote 5101: Gaudin, Duc de Gaëte, "Memoires," I., 28. Gaudin, commissioner of the Treasury,
meets the president of the revolutionary committee of his quarter, an excellent Jacobin, who
says to him: "Eh, well, what's all this? Robespierre proscribed! Is it possible? What is wanted--everything
was going on so well!" (It is true that fifty or sixty heads fell daily.) "I replied, 'Just
so, there are some folks that are never satisfied.'"]

[Footnote 5102: Mallet-Dupan, "Mémoires," II., 16. (Letter of January 8, 1795.)--Ibid., "Correspondance
avec la cour de Vienne," I., 23, 25, 32, 34, (January 8, 1795, on the four parties com posing
the Convention).]

[Footnote 5103: Marshal Marmont: "Memoires," I., 120. (Report of General Dugommier on the capture
of Toulon.) "That memorable day avenged the general will of a partial and gangrened will, the
delirium of which caused the greatest misfortunes."]

[Footnote 5104: Memorial of the ninety-four survivors Thermidor 30, year II., acquitted Fructidor
28.]

[Footnote 5105: Carrier indicted Brumaire 21, year III. Decree of arrest passed by 498 out
of 500 votes, Frimaire 3; execution Frimaire 26. Fouquier-Tinville indicted Frimaire 28; execution
Floréal 28, there being 419 witnesses heard. Joseph Lebon indicted Messidor I, year III. Trial
adjourned to the Somme court, Messidor 29; execution Vendémiaire 24, year IV.]

[Footnote 5106: Cf. chapters 4, 5 and 6 of the present volume. Numbers of printed documents
of this epoch show what these local sovereigns were. The principal ones in the department of
Ain were "Anselm, who had placed Marat's head in his shop. Duclos, a joiner, living before
the 31st of May on his earnings; he became after that a gentleman living on his rents, owning
national domains, sheep, horses and pocket books filled with assignats. Laimant, a tailor,
in debt, furnishing his apartment suddenly with all the luxuriousness of the ancient regime,
such as beds at one hundred pistoles etc. Alban, mayor, placing seals everywhere, was a blacksmith
and father of a family which he supported by his labor; all at once he stops working, and passes
from a state of dependence to one of splendor; he has diamonds and earrings, always wearing
new clothes, fine linen shirts, muslin cravates, silk stockings, etc.; on removing the seals
in the houses of those imprisoned and guillotined, little or nothing was found in them. Alban
was denounced and incarcerated for having obliged a woman of Macon to give him four hundred
francs on promising to interest himself in her husband. Such are the Ain patriots. Rollet,
another, had so frightened the rural districts that the people ran away on his approach; on
one occasion he had two of them harnessed to his carriage and drove them along for some time
in this manner... Another, Charcot (of Virieu), before the Revolution, was a highway assassin,
and was banished for three years for an act of this description." (Bibliotheque Nationale.
Lb. 41, No. 1318. "The truth in reply to calumnious charges against the department of Ain."
Letter of Roux, Vendémiaire, year III.)]

[Footnote 5107: Decree of Germinal 12, year III: for the transportation of Collot, Barère,
Billaud-Varennes and Vadier. Eight Montagnards are put under arrest.--Decree of Germinal 14:
the same against nine other Montagnards.?Decree of Germinal 29: the same against Maribon-Montant.--Decree
of Prairial 6: twenty-nine Montagnards are indicted.--Decree of Prairial 8: putting six Montagnards
under arrest.--Decree of Prairial 9: the same against nine members of former committees.--Decrees
of Prairial 10 to Thermidor 22, year III: condemning 6 Montagnards to death, one to transportation
and twenty put under arrest.]

[Footnote 5108: Barbé-Marbois," Mémoires," preface, p. VIII. "Except about fifty men who are
honest and intelligent, history presents no sovereign assembly containing so much vice, abjectness
and ignorance."??Buchez et Roux, XXXVII., 7. (Speech by Legendre, Thermidor 17, year III.)
"It is stated in print that, at most, there are but twenty pure men in this Assembly."--Ibid.,
27. Order of the Lepelletier section, Vendemiaire 10, year IV. "It is certain that we owe the
dearth and all its accompanying evils to the incapacity and brigandage of the present government."]

[Footnote 5109: Mallet-Dupan, "Correspondance," etc., I., 211. (May 27, 1795.)]

[Footnote 5110: "Un Sejour en France," 267. 271, (Amiens, March 13, April 12, 1795.)]

[Footnote 5111: Meissner, "Voyage à Paris," 123, 351. (Session of Fructidor 3.) The first idea
of the commission of Eleven was to have the Convention itself choose the two-thirds. "Its opponents
took advantage of the public outcry and broke off this plan.... of the Girondist cabal." Louvet,
Fructidor 3, mounted three times into the tribune to support this project, still more scandalous
than the other. "Eh, what electoral assembly could be better than yours! You all know each
other well." Louvet adds this significant expression: "The armies also will vote the new constitution.
I have no fears of its fate."]

[Footnote 5114: Moniteur, XXII, 22. (Report of Lindet, 4th sans-culottide, year II.) "Each
man confines himself to his family and calculates his resources."]

[Footnote 5115: Meissner, 58.]

[Footnote 5116: Decree of Fructidor s. "All Frenchmen who voted at the last primary assemblies
will be admitted to vote on the acceptance of the Constitution."--Archives Nationales, A. II.
B. 638. (General recapitulation of the vote on the Constitution of the year III and on the
decrees of Fructidor 5 and 13 printed by order of the Convention Vendémiaire, year IV.) Number
of voters on the constitutional bill, 1,107,368.]

[Footnote 5117: Moniteur, XXV., 637. (Address to Frenchmen by Lareveillère-Lepeaux, in the
name of the Commission of Eleven, affixed to the decree of Fructidor 13.) "Let all opposition
to the legitimacy of this measure cease! The only legitimate measure is that which saves the
country! Besides, if the majority of the primary assemblies of France approve of it, who dares
say that the people would have renounced its sovereignty in thus expressing its will!"--Cf.
Sauzay, VII., 653 to 667, on the details and circumstances of the elections in one of the departments.]

[Footnote 5118: Archives Nationales1 A. II. B., 688. (Procés-verbaux of the primary meetings
of Seine-Inférieure, Dieppe, "Liberté" section, session of Fructidor 20.) The constitution
is unanimously accepted by forty-four voters, on a call of names. Then, "before proceeding
to the nomination of electors the law was read, concerning the mode of electing the two-thirds
of the National Convention. The President having asked if any one wished to speak on this law
the order of the day was immediately called for on all sides." The electors are appointed forthwith
and the assembly adjourns.-The clerk, who has to draw up the minutes, writes on the margin
"forty-four voters unanimously accept the Constitution as well as the decrees of Fructidor
5 and 13," which is false. It is clear that the scribe had been instructed to enlarge the number
of votes accepting the decrees, which suggests doubts on the truth of the total furnished by
the convention.]

[Footnote 5119: Ibid., A. II. B., 638 (General recapitulation). I have taken the number of
primary assemblies in the twenty-two first departments on the alphabetical list, that is to
say, one quarter of the territory, which warrants a conclusion, proportionately, on the whole
country. In these twenty-two departments, 1,570 assemblies vote on the constitution and only
three hundred and twenty-eight on the decrees. The figures are herewith given: in the Côtes-du-Nord,
eighty-four primary assemblies; only one votes in favor of the decrees. Bouches du Rhone, ninety
primary assemblies; four vote on the decrees, two for and two against. Aude, eighty-three primary
assemblies; four vote on the decrees, three for and one against. Arriége, fifty-nine primary
assemblies; two vote on the decrees. Basses-Alpes, forty-eight primary assemblies: two vote
on the decrees. Maritime Alps, twenty-three primary assemblies; not one votes on the decrees.]

[Footnote 5120: Ibid., (Procés-verbaux of the primary assemblies of the department of the Seine,
Popincourt section, Vendémiaire) 91. This section, on learning that its vote against the decrees"
was put down as a cipher in the general count of votes," protested and declared that "when
the vote was taken at the meeting of Fructidor 22, it was composed of 845 citizens representing
2,594 votes." Nevertheless, in the general recapitulation of Vendémiaire its vote counts for
nothing.--The same remark for the "Fidélité" section. Its minutes state that the décrees are
rejected "unanimously," and that it is composed of 1,300 citizens; its vote, likewise, goes
for nothing. The totals given by the recapitulation are as follows: Voters on the Constitution,
1,107,368. For, 1,057,390. Against, 49,978.--Voters on the Decrees, 314,382. For, 205,498.
Against, 108,794.--Mallet-Dupan (I., 313) estimates the number of electors, at Paris, who rejected
the decrees, at eighty thousand. Fiévée, "Correspondance avec Bonaparte," introduction, p.
126.--(A few days before Vendémiaire 13, Fiévée, in the name of the Theatre-Français section,
came, with two other commissioners, to verify the returns announced by the Convention.) "We
divided the returns into three parts; each commissioner undertook to check off one of these
parts, pen in hand, and the conscientious result of our labor was to show that, although the
Convention had voting done in a mass by all the regiments then in France, individually, the
majority, incontestably was against its project. Thus, while trying to have the election law
passed under the Constitution, both measures were rejected."]

[Footnote 5121: Schmidt, "Tableaux de Paris pendant la Revolution." (Reports of Messidor 1
and 24, year III.) "Good citizens are alarmed at the numerous pardons granted to the members
of the revolutionary committees." "The release of numerous terrorists is generally turned to
account."--Mallet-Dupan, "Correspondance," etc., I., 259, 261, 321. "The vilest terrorists
have been set free; a part of them confined in the chateau of Ham have been allowed to escape;
they are summoned from all parts of the kingdom; they even send for them abroad, in Germany,
in Belgium, in Savoy, in Geneva. On reaching Paris they are given leaders and organized. September
11 and 12 they began to meet publicly in groups and to use threats. I have proof of emissaries
being engaged in recruiting them in the places I have mentioned and in paying their expenses
to the capital." (Letter of September 26, 1795.)]

[Footnote 5122: Buchez et Roux, XXXVII., 36, 49. (Reports of Merlin de Douai and Barras on
the 13th of Vendémiaire.)--Thibaudeau, "Histoire de la Convention et du Directoire," I., 209.--Fabre
de l'Aude, "Histoire secrete du Directoire," I., p.10. "The Convention opened the prison doors
to fifteen or eighteen hundred Jacobin lunatics, zealots of the former members of the Committee
of Public Safety."--Mallet Dupan, (ibid., I., 332, 337, 361,) estimates the numbers of terrorists
enrolled at three thousand.]

[Footnote 5123: Barbé-Marbois, "Mémoires,"9.--Meissner, p.246.]

[Footnote 5124: Mallet-Dupan, ibid., I., 282. (Letter of August 16, 1795.) "At Paris, the patriots
of 1789 have got the upper hand. The regicides have the greatest horror of this class because
they regard it as a hundred times more dangerous than pronounced aristocrats." Ibid., 316.--Meissner,
p. 229. "The sectionists want neither a republic nor monarchy but simply intelligent and honest
men for the places in the new Convention."]

[Footnote 5125: Lavalette, "Mémoires," I., 162, 170.]

[Footnote 5126: Meissner, p. 236.--Any number of details show the features and characters of
the male and female Jacobins here referred to. For example, Carnot, ("Mémoires," I., 581,)
says in his narrative of the foregoing riot, (Prairial 1st.): "A creature with a horrible face
put himself astride my bench and kept constantly repeating: 'To-day is the day we'll make you
passer le gout de pain? and furies posted in the tribunes, made signs of the guillotine.'"]

[Footnote 5127: Meissner, p. 238.-Fiévée, p.127, and following pages.]

[Footnote 5128: Mallet-Dupan, I., 333, and following pages. (Letter of October 24, 1795.) "Barras
does not repeat the mistake made by the Court on the 10th of April, and shut himself up in
the chateau and the Tuileries; he posts troops and artillery in all the avenues.... Fréron
and two other representatives, supplied with coin and assignats collected in the faubourg Saint-Antoine,
four or five hundred bandits which joined the terrorists; these formed the pretended battalions
of the loyal section which had been pompously announced to the Convention. No section, excepting
the" Quinze-vingts," sent its battalion, this section having separated at the outset from the
other forty-seven sections.... The gardens and court of the Tuileries resembled a feasting
camp, where the Committees caused distributions of wine and all sorts of provisions; many of
their defenders were intoxicated; the troops of the line were kept loyal with money and drink."--After
Vendemiaire 13, the Convention brings further reinforcements of regular troops into Paris to
keep the city under, amounting to eight or nine thousand men.]

[Footnote 5129: Constitution of year III., Articles VI. and VII.]

[Footnote 5130: Albert Babeau, "Histoire de Troyes," II., 367 and following pages. Sauzay,
"Hist. de la Persecution Révolutionnaire dans le Doubs," VIII., ch. 52 and 54--Law of Pluviôse
4, year IV., authorizing the executive Directory to appoint the members who, up to Thermidor
I, year IV., shall compose the municipal bodies of Bordeaux, Lyons, Marseilles and Paris.]

[Footnote 5131: Decree of Brumaire 3, year IV.]

[Footnote 5132: Archives Nationales, AF., II., 65. (Letter of Gen. Kermorvan, to the Com. of
Public Safety, Valenciennes, Fructidor 22, year III.) At Valenciennes, during the elections,
"the leaders of the sections used their fists in driving out of the primary assemblies all
the worthy men possessing the necessary qualities for election.... I knew that the "seal-breakers,"
(brise-scellés), were the promoters of these turbulent parties, the patriotic robbers, the
men who have wasted public and private fortunes belonging to the commune, and who are reveling
in the houses and on the estates of the émigrés which they have had awarded to them at a hundred
times below their value.. .. All of them are appointed electors.... They have paid. ... and
still pay agitators to intimidate honest folks by terror, in order to keep what they have seized,
awaiting an opportunity to get more.... When the elections were over they sent daring men,
undoubtedly paid, to insult people as they passed, calling them royalist chouans." (He mentions
the dispatch of supporting affidavits.)--Mercier, "Le Nouveau Paris," II., 315. "Peaceable
people in Paris refuse to go to the polls," so as to "avoid being struck and knocked down."--Sauzay,
VIII., 9. At Besançon, Nov. 6, 1795, out of 5,309 registered voters, only 1,324 vote and the
elected are terrorists.--Archives Nationales, F.7, 7090. (Documents on the Jacobin insurrection
of Nivôse 4 and 5, year IV., at Arles): "The exclusives, or amnestied, regarded the Constitution
only as a means of arriving at a new state of anarchy by getting possession of all the offices....
Shouts and cries of Vive Marat! and Robespierre to the Pantheon! were often repeated.--The
principal band was composed of genuine Terrorists, of the men who under Robespierre's reign
bore the guillotine about in triumph, imitating its cruel performances on every corner with
a manikin expressly made for the occasion."--"Domiciliary visits, rummaging everywhere, stealing
jewelry, money, clothes, etc."]

[Footnote 5133: Mallet-Dupan, II., 363.--Schmidt (Police report of Brumaire 26 and 27).]

[Footnote 5134: Dufort de Cheverney, (manuscript memoirs communicated by Robert de Crêvecoeur).--Report
of the public prosecutor, dated Thermidor 13, year III., according to documents handed in on
Messidor 16, by the foreman of the jury of indictment and by the juges de paix of Chinon, Saumur,
Tours, Amboise, Blois, Beaugency, etc., relating to the charges made by the administrators
of the department of Loire-et-Cher, dated Frimaire 30, year II., concerning the fusillades
at Blois, Frimaire 19, year II.]

[Footnote 5135: The line of this march from Saumur to Montsoreau could be traced by the blood
along the road; the leaders shot those who faltered with fatigue.--On reaching Blois, Frimaire
18, Hézine says, before the town-hall, "To-morrow morning they shall be straightened out and
we'll show the Blésois how the thing is managed." The following day, Hézine and Gidouin, taking
a walk with Lepetit, commander of the escort, in the court of the inn, say to him: "You'll
shoot some of them for us. You must give the people an example by shooting some of those rascally
priests." Lepetit orders out four peasants and placing them himself on the river bank, gives
the command to fire and to throw them in. Hézine and Gidoum shout Vive la Nation! Gidouin then
says to Lepetit: "You don't mean to stop with those four peasants? won't you give us a few
curés?" Five priests are shot.--At Beaugency, there is a fresh fusillade. The leaders take
the best part of the spoil. Among other objects, Lepetit has a coffer sent into his chamber
and takes the effects it contains and sells a bed and mattress beside.]

[Footnote 5136: Ibid., (March, 1796). "Meanwhile, the young men who were recruited, hid themselves:
Bonnard made them pay, and still made them set out. Baillon, quartermaster in the war, told
me that he had paid Bonnard 900,000 livres in assignats in twelve days, and 1,400,000 in twenty
days; there were 35,000 in the memoir for pens, penknives, ink, and paper."]

[Footnote 5137: Mallet-Dupan, "Correspondance, etc.," I., 383. (Letter of Dec.13, 1795.) "The
Directory keeps on filling the offices with Terrorists. The government agents in the departments
arbitrarily set aside the constituted authorities and replace them with Jacobins."]

[Footnote 5138: Province in ancient Turkey governed by a Pasha. (SR.)]

[Footnote 5139: Thibaudeau, "Histoire de la Convention," I., 243. "Tallien, Barras, Chenier
and Louvet talked of nothing but of annulling the elections.... Nothing was heard at the bar
and in the tribunals but the most revolutionary propositions. The 'Mountain' showed incredible
audacity. The public tribunes were filled with confederates who applauded furiously... Tallien
and Barras ruled and shared the dictatorship between them. Since 13th of Vendémiaire, the Convention
no longer deliberated except when in the middle of a camp; the exterior, the tribunes, even
the hall itself are invested by soldiers and terrorists."--Mallet Dupan, "Correspondance, etc.,"
I., 248. (Letter of Oct. 31, 1795.)]

[Footnote 5140: Thibaudeau, Ibid., I., 246, et seq.--Moniteur. (Session of Brumaire 1.) Speech
by Thibaudeau.]

[Footnote 5141: Mallet-Dupan, ibid., I., 328. (Letter Oct. 4, 1795.) "Nearly all the electors
nominated at Paris are former administrators, distinguished and sensible writers, persons recommendable
through their position, fortune and intelligence. They are the royalists of 1789, that is to
say about in the sense of the constitution of 1791, essentially changed fundamentally. M. d'Ormesson,
former comptroller-general of the Treasury, the Marquis of Gontant, M. de Vandeuil, former
maitre de requêtes, M. Garnier, former conseiller au Châtelet of Paris and others of the same
order, all electors. It is another world; in one month we have gone back five years."--Ibid.,
343, 350, 359, 373.]

[Footnote 5142: Barbé-Marbois, "Journal d'un Déporté," preface, p. XIV. "Outside of five or
six men who might be regarded as 'suspects' of royalism the most animated were only really
irritated against the despotic conduct and depredations of the directors and not against the
republican system."]

[Footnote 5143: Mallet-Dupan, ibid:, I., 369. (Letter of Nov.22, 1795.) "Never would the resistance
of the sections have shown itself so unanimously and so perseveringly without the promptings
of the two hundred monarchist members of the convention and the aid they promised. They had
engaged to enter the tribune and support the cause of Paris, to carry the majority and, in
case they did not succeed in revoking the decree respecting the two-thirds, to withdraw from
the Convention and come and take their seats with the sections; the pusillanimity of these
two hundred members caused the failure of these promises... . I guarantee the authenticity
of this statement."]

[Footnote 5144: Souvenirs et Journal d'un Bourgeois d'Evreux," pp.103, 106. "The Constitution
has been adopted by a very small number of citizens, for, in the section of the Nord only one
hundred and fifty voters at most are found amongst twelve hundred or fifteen hundred estimated.
(September 6, 1795.)--On Tuesday, November 10, "the section assemblies of Evreux completed
their nominations of juge de paix and of its assessors and five municipal officers. It took
time, because there were a great many who declined."]

[Footnote 5145: Thibaudeau, "Mémoires sur le Convention et le Directoire," II., 58.--Mallet-Dupan,
("Correspondance, etc.," II., 281.) Dufort de Cheverney, ("Mémoires" in manuscript). He is
at Vendôme and attends the trial out of curiosity. "Germain, cheerful and witty, makes fun
of the jurymen: they are really stupid, said he, not to see conspiracy when there was as complete
a one as ever existed.... Besides, I conspired and always shall."]

[Footnote 5146: "Souvenir et Journal d'un Bourgeois d'Evreux," p. 118 (March 24, 1797).]

[Footnote 5147: Dufort de Cheverney, "Mémoires," (March, 1797).]

[Footnote 5148: Albert Babeau, II., 408, et seq. (Address of the administrators of Aube for
the elections of year V.)--Ibid., 414. (Speech by Herlinson, Librarian of the Ecole Centrale
at Troyes, Thermidor 10, year V. in the large hall of the Hôtel-de-Ville, before the commissioners
of the Directory, and received with unbounded applause.) "The patriots consisted of fools,
madmen and knaves, the first in their illusions, the second in their dreams and the third in
their acts.... Everywhere you would see two or three executioners, a dozen satellites, of whom
one-half trembled for their lives, and about a hundred witnesses, most of them in spite of
themselves, against thousands of victims.... Vengeance is not necessary; never was special
vengeance of any benefit to the public. Let them rest in their slough, let them live as objects
of contempt and horror."-Cf. Sauzay, VIII., p.659 et seq.]

[Footnote 5149: Thibaudeau, II., 152, 153.--Mallet-Dupan, II., 262.]

[Footnote 5150: Mallet-Dupan, II., 265, 268, 278.]

[Footnote 5151: Thibaudeau, II., 244, 248.]

[Footnote 5152: Carnot, "Mémoires," II., 108. "Not fifteen leaders. "--Lacretelle, "Dix Années
d'Épreuves," p.308. "Twenty or thirty men devoted to monarchical opinions, but who did not
dare state them openly."]

[Footnote 5153: Mallet-Dupan, II., 267, 278, 331.]

[Footnote 5154: Mallet-Dupan, II., 265. "Not only have they discarded (at Paris) the Republicans,
but even those among the old Constituents, known or denounced for having taken too important
a part in the first revolution.... Men have been chosen who aspired to a modified and not perverted
monarchy. The suffrages have equally distanced themselves from the sectarian royalists of the
ancient régime as well as the violent anti-revolutionaries."]

[Footnote 5155: Mallet-Dupan, 11., 298. "The deputies never attack a revolutionary law, but
they are mistrusted of some design of destroying the results of the Revolution, and every time
they speak of regulating the Republic they are accused of ill-will to the Republic."]

[Footnote 5156: Thibaudeau, II., 171.--Carnot, II., 106.--The programme of Barthélémy is contained
in this simple phrase: "I would render the Republic administrative." On the foreign policy,
his ideas, so temperate, pacific and really French, are received with derision by the other
Directors. (Andre Lebon, "Angleterre et l'Emigration Française," p. 335.)]

[Footnote 5157: Mathieu Dumas, "Souvenirs," III., 153.--Camille Jordan. (Letter to his constituents
on the Revolution, Fructidor 18, p.26.) "The Constitution, the Constitution alone, is the rallying
word at Clichy." --Barbé-Marbois, "Souvenirs d'un Déporté," I., page 12 and preface. "The largest
number wanted to disregard the future and forget the past."]

[Footnote 5158: Mallet-Dupan, II., 336. "Eighty of the deputies who were menaced have slept
elsewhere since the 30th of August, keeping together in one domicile for fear of being carried
off at night."--Mathieu Dumas, III., 10. "I could no longer occupy my house in Paris, rue Fosses-du-Temple,
without risking an attack from the sbirri (Italian police officers) of the Directory, who pro
claimed in the clubs that the people must be avenged in (our) houses. "--Mallet-Dupan, II.
343. "This pretended conspiracy imputed to the councils by the triumvirs, is a romance similar
to those of Robespierre."--Ibid., 346. "There has been no conspiracy, properly so-called, of
the Legislative Corps against the Directory."--Only, "every constitution in France kills the
Revolution if the Revolutionary leaders has not destroyed in time. And this, because four-fifths
of France being detached from the Revolution, the elections will put into the legislative and
administrative offices men who were opposed to the Revolution."]

[Footnote 5159: Lord Malmesbury, "Diaries," II., 544. (September 9, 1797.) The words of Mr.
Colchen.) "He went on to say that all the persons arrested are the most estimable and most
able men in the Republic. It is for this reason and not from any principles of royalism (for
such principles do not belong to them) that they are sentenced to transportation. They would
have supported the constitution, but in doing that they would have circumscribed the authority
of the executive power and have taken from the Directory the means of acquiring and exercising
undue authority."]

[Footnote 5160: Barbé-Marbois, "Journal d'un Déporté," preface, p. XVI.]

[Footnote 5161: Mathieu Dumas, III., 84, 86.]

[Footnote 5162: De Goncourt, "La Société Française pendant le Directoire," 298, 386. Cf. the
Thé, the Grondeur, the Censeur des journaux, Paris, and innumerable pamphlets.--In the provinces,
the Anti-Terrorist, at Toulouse the Neuf Thermidor, at Besançon, the Annales Troyennes at Troyes,
etc.]

[Footnote 5163: Mallet-Dupan, II., 309, 316, 323, 324, 329, 333, 339, 347. "To defend themselves
constitutionally, whilst the Directory attacks revolutionarily, is to condemn themselves to
inevitable perdition."--"Had it a hundred times more ability the Legislative Corps without
boldness is a lightning flash without thunder."--"With greater resources than Louis XVI. had
in 1792, the Legislative Corps acts like this prince and will share his fate, unless it returns
war for war, unless it declares that the first generals who dare send out the deliberations
of their armies are traitors to the State."--"It is owing to the temporizing of the legislative
councils, to the fatal postponement of the attack on the Luxembourg in the middle of August,
on which Pichegru, Villot, General Miranda and all the clairvoyant deputies insisted on,....
it is owing to foolishly insisting on confining themselves to constitutional defenses,... it
is owing to the necessity which the eighty firm and energetic deputies found of conciliating
three hundred others who could not agree on the end as well as the means, which brought about
the catastrophe of the Councils."]

[Footnote 5164: Carnot, "Mémoires," II., 161. "The evil having reached its last stage, it was
necessary to have a 10th of June instead of a 31st of May."--Mallet-Dupan, II., 333, 334. The
plan for canceling the military division of the Interior under Augereau's command was to be
carried out between the 15th and 20th of August. If the triumvirate should resist, Pichegru
and Villot were to march on the Luxembourg. Carnot refused to accept the project "unless he
might name the three new Directors."--De la Rue, "Histoire du 18 Fructidor." Carnot said to
the Moderates who asked him to act with them: "Even if I had a pardon in my pocket, amply confirmed
by the royal mouth, I should have no confidence."]

[Footnote 5165: Occupied by the members of the Directory.]

[Footnote 5166: Mathieu Dumas, "Mémoires," III., 113.]

[Footnote 5167: Mallet-Dupan, II., 327. "Barras is the only one who plays squarely and who,
taking the risk, wants Jacobinism to triumph par fas et nefas."--Ibid., 339. "The triumvirs
hesitated up to Friday; Barras, the most furious of the three, and master of Augereau, decided
his two colleagues."--Ibid, 351. "Barras and Reubell, by dint of exciting the imagination of
that poor little philosophizer La Révellière, succeeded in converting him."--Thibaudeau, II.,
272. "It was Barras who bore off the honors of dictatorship that night... . La Révellière shut
himself up in his house as in an impenetrable sanctuary. Reubell, at this moment, his head
somewhat affected, was watched in his apartment."]

[Footnote 5168: Mallet-Dupan, II., 304, 305, 331.--Carnot, II., 117.]

[Footnote 5169: Barbé-Marbois, "Journal d'un Deporté," pp.34 and 35.]

[Footnote 5170: Mallet-Dupan, II., 343.]

[Footnote 5171: Barbé-Marbois, ibid., p.46.]

[Footnote 5172: Mallet-Dupan, II., 228, 342. "The use the triumvirs intended to make of D'Entraigues'
portfolio was known two months ago."--cf. Thibaudeau, II., 279, on the vagueness, scanty proof
and gross falsity of the charges made by the Directory.]

[Footnote 5173: Barbé-Marbois, ibid., p.46.]

[Footnote 5174: Lord Malmesbury. "Diary," III., 559 (Sep. 17th, 1797). At Lille, after the
news of the coup d'état, "it was a curious circumstance to see the horror that prevailed everywhere
lest the system of Terror should be revived. People looked as if some exterminating spirit
were approaching. The actors in the theatre partook of the sensation. The Director called Paris,
said to Ross, on his paying him: 'Nous allons actuellement être vandalisés.' "]

[Footnote 5175: Decrees of Fructidor 18 and 19, year V., Article 39.]

[Footnote 5176: Thibaudeau, II., 277. "I went to the meeting of Fructidor 20, the avenues of
the Odéon were besieged with those subaltern agents of revolution who always show themselves
after commotion, like vultures after battles. They insulted and threatened the vanquished and
lauded the victors."]

[Footnote 5177: Ibid., II. 309.]

[Footnote 5178: Ibid., II., 277. "As soon as I entered the hall several deputies came with
tears in their eyes to clasp me in their arms. The Assembly all had a lugubrious air, the same
as the dimly lighted theatre in which they met; terror was depicted on all countenances; only
a few members spoke and took part in the debates. The majority was impassible, seeming to be
there only to assist at a funeral spectacle, its own."]

[Footnote 5179: Decree of Fructidor 1, articles 4 and 5, 16 and 17, 28, 29 and 30, 35, and
decree of Fructidor 22.-Sauzay, IX., 103. Three hundred communes of the department are thus
purged after Fructidor.-Ibid., 537, the same weeding-out of jurymen.]

[Footnote 5180: Lacretelle, "Dix ans d'Epreuves," p. 310.]

[Footnote 5181: "Journal d'un Bourgeois d'Evreux," 143. (March 20, 1799.) "The next day the
primary assemblies began; very few attended them; nobody seemed disposed to go out of his way
to elect men whom they did not like."--Dufort de Cheverney, "Mémoires," March, 1799. "Persons
who are not dupes think it of very little consequence whether they vote or not. The elections
are already made or indicated by the Directory. The mass of the people show utter indifference."
(March 24.) "In this town of twenty thousand souls (Blois) the primary assemblies are composed
of the dregs of the people only a very few honest people attend them; 'suspects,' the relations
of émigrés and priests, all expelled, leave the field free to intriguers. Not one proprietor
is summoned. The terrorists rule in three out of the four sections.. . The Babouvists always
employ the same tactics; they recruit voters in the streets who sell their sovereignty five
or six times over for a bottle of wine." (April 12, according to an intelligent man coming
from Paris.) "Generally, in Paris, nobody attends the primary assemblies, the largest not returning
two hundred voters."--Sauzay, IX., ch. 83. (Notes on the election at Besançon 1798, by an eye-witness.)
"Jacobins were elected by most frightful brigandage, supported by the garrison to which wine
had been distributed, their election being made at the point of the bayonet and under blows
with sticks and swords. A good many Catholics were wounded."]

[Footnote 5182: Albert Babeau, II., 444. (Declaration of the patriotic and secessionist minority
of the canton of Riquy at the elections of the year VI.)]

[Footnote 5183: Mercure Britannique, No. for August 25, 1799. (Report read, July 15 and August
5, before the Five Hundred on the conduct of the Directors Reubell, La Révellière-Lepaux, Merlin
de Douai and Treilhard, and summary of the nine articles of indictment.)--Ibid., 3rd article.
"They have violated our constitution by usurping legislative powers through acts which prescribe
that a certain law shall be executed, in all that is not modified to the present act, and by
passing acts which modify or render the present laws illusory."]

[Footnote 5184: Fiévée, "Correspondance avec Buonaparte," I., 147.]

[Footnote 5185: Barbé-Marbois, I., 64, 91, 96, 133; II., 18, 25, 83.--Dufort de Cheverney,
"Mémoires." (September 14, 1797.)--Sauzay, IX., chapters 81 and 84.]

[Footnote 5186: Sauzay, vols. IX. and X.--Mallet-Dupan, II., 375, 379, 382.--Schmidt, "Tableau
de Paris Pendant la Revolution," III., 290. (Report by the administrators of the Seine department.)]

[Footnote 5187: Dufort de Cheverney, "Mémoires," August, 1798, October, 1797 and 1799, passim.]

[Footnote 5188: Archives Nationales, F.7, 3219. (Letter of M. Alquier to the First Consul,
Pluviôse 18, year III.) "I wanted to see the central administration; I found the ideas and
language of 1793."]

[Footnote 5189: Dufort de Cheverney, "Mémoires," (February 26, March 31 and September 6, 1797).
"That poor theoristic imbecile, La Révellière-Lepaux, who, joining Barras and Reubell against
Barthélémy and Carnot, made the 18th of Fructidor, and shut himself in his room so as not to
witness it, himself avows the quality of his staff." ("Memoires," II., 164.) "The 18th of Fructidor
necessitated numerous changes on the part of the Directory. Instead of putting republicans,
but above all, honest, wise and enlightened men in the place of the functionaries and employees
dismissed or revoked, the selections dictated by the new Councils fell for the most part on
anarchists and men of blood and robbery."]

[Footnote 5190: Lacretelle, "Dix ans d'épreuves," p.317. A few days after Fructidor, Robert,
an old Jacobin, exclaimed with great joy on the road to Brie-Comté, "All the royalists are
going to be driven out or guillotined!" The series F.7 in the Archives Nationales, contains
hundreds of files filled with reports "on the state of the public mind," in each department,
town or canton between the years III. and VIII. I have given several months to their examination
and, for lack of space, cannot copy any extracts. The real history of the last five years of
the Revolution may be found in these files. Mallet-Dupan gives a correct impression of it in
his "Correspondance avec la cour de Vienne," also in the "Mercure Britannique."]

[Footnote 5191: Sauzay, X., chaps. 8o and 90.--Ludovic Sciout, IV., ch. 17. (See especially
in Sauzay, X., pp.170 and 281, the instructions given by Duval, December 16, 1796, and the
circulars of François de Neufchateau from November 20, 1798, down to June 18, 1798, each of
these pieces being a masterpiece in its way.]

[Footnote 5192: "Journal d'un Bourgeois d'Evreux," p.134. "June 7, 1798." "The day following
the décade, the gardeners, who as usual came to show themselves off on the main street, were
fined six livres for having treated with contempt and broken the décade." January 21, 1799.
"Those who were caught working on the décade, were fined three livres for the first offence
if they were caught more than once the fine was doubled and it was even followed by imprisonment"]

