None of them saw Maria-José as she really was. Living with her day by day had served to efface
the actual appearance of the faded old maid. For, in the minds of the mother and her daughters,
who were moreover of a frivolous and indifferent sort, Zézé had grown to be the type, very
vague, to be sure, but the eternal type of young girl of marriagable years who always should
be well dressed and smiling.

When she would be out walking with her nieces, of sixteen and seventeen years, who wore the
same clothes as she herself did, but whose graceful and lively charm became their gay colors
of youth so well, Zézé's intelligence saw only too plainly the contrast between her and them;
she would hold aloof from the laughing set, morose, wounded, as if oppressed by an unspeakable
shame.

Ah! Who can depict the secret chagrin of an old maid who sees pass by in useless monotony her
dark, loveless, despairing days, without hope even of some event of personal interest, while
about her moves the busy whirl of happier creatures whose life has but one goal, who feel emotions
and tendernesses, and who look upon her simply as an obscure accessory in the household's affairs!
They all loved her, of course, but not one of them suspected that she, too, could cherish those
aspirations that are common to all human beings.

Her self-denial seemed to be a most natural thing; indeed, they hardly considered her in the
light of a living person; she was no longer of any consequence.

This was an attitude that satisfied the general egotism of the family, and to which they all
had grown accustomed, never suspecting the grievous aspect of her sacrifice which was hidden
by a sentiment of proud dignity.

So, when they would go to the theatre, and the box held only five--Engracigna, her husband,
Fabio, and the three young ladies,--Maria-José knew beforehand that her sister, snugly wrapped
in her opera-cloak, would come to her and say gently, in that purring voice of hers: "You'll
stay at home with the children tonight, won't you, Zézé? Little Paul isn't very well, and I
wouldn't think of leaving him with anybody else...."

And she would remain behind, without betraying the revolt within her which, upon each occasion
of these evidences of selfishness, would make the anemic blood in her veins tremble with agitation.

Alone in the dining-room she would ply her needle mechanically, while her nephews would amuse
themselves with the toys scattered upon the table,--colored pictures and lead soldiers. Every
other moment they would call her.

"Aunt Zézé, look at George pinching me!"

"I am not! Paul hit me first!..."

And the good aunt would quiet them. Then, after both had been put to sleep in their little
twin beds, she would rest her elbows upon the window-sill of her gloomy old-maid's room, and
placing both hands beneath her sharp chin, her gaze directed towards heaven, she would lose
herself in contemplation of the stars that shone in the limpid sky, less lonely, surely, than
she upon earth. In vain did her eyes seek in the eyes of another that expression of sympathy
and tenderness which alone would console her....

The truth is that Maria-José was suffering from the disappointment of unrequited passion. She
had fallen in love with Monjardin, a poet and great friend of her brother-in-law, Fabio. Monjardin
came to the house every Sunday.

Older than she, almost forty, but having preserved all the attractiveness of youth,--a black
moustache, a vigorous, yet graceful figure, eyes still bright, charming and wide-awake,--Monjardin,
without knowing it, had conquered Zézé.

