'Be it enough, son of Aeneas, that the Numanian hath fallen unavenged beneath thine arrows;
this first honour great Apollo allows thee, nor envies the arms that match his own. Further,
O boy, let war alone.' Thus Apollo began, and yet speaking retreated from mortal view, vanishing
into thin air away out of their eyes. The Dardanian princes knew the god and the arms of deity,
and heard the clash of his quiver as he went. So they restrain Ascanius' keenness for battle
by the words of Phoebus' will; themselves they again close in conflict, and cast their lives
into the perilous breach. Shouts run all along the battlemented walls; ringing bows are drawn
and javelin thongs twisted: all the ground is strewn with missiles. Shields and hollow helmets
ring to blows; the battle swells fierce; heavy as the shower lashes the ground that sets in
when the Kids are rainy in the West; thick as hail pours down from storm-clouds on the shallows,
when the rough lord of the winds congeals his watery deluge and breaks up the hollow vapours
in the sky.

Pandarus and Bitias, sprung of Alcanor of Ida, whom woodland Iaera bore in the grove of Jupiter,
grown now [674-709]tall as their ancestral pines and hills, fling open the gates barred by
their captain's order, and confident in arms, wilfully invite the enemy within the walls. Themselves
within they stand to right and left in front of the towers, sheathed in iron, the plumes flickering
over their stately heads: even as high in air around the gliding streams, whether on Padus'
banks or by pleasant Athesis, twin oaks rise lifting their unshorn heads into the sky with
high tops asway. The Rutulians pour in when they see the entrance open. Straightway Quercens
and Aquicolus beautiful in arms, and desperate Tmarus, and Haemon, seed of Mars, either gave
back in rout with all their columns, or in the very gateway laid down their life. Then the
spirits of the combatants swell in rising wrath, and now the Trojans gather swarming to the
spot, and dare to close hand to hand and to sally farther out.

News is brought to Turnus the captain, as he rages afar among the routed foe, that the enemy
surges forth into fresh slaughter and flings wide his gates. He breaks off unfinished, and,
fired with immense anger, rushes towards the haughty brethren at the Dardanian gate. And on
Antiphates first, for first he came, the bastard son of mighty Sarpedon by a Theban mother,
he hurls his javelin and strikes him down; the Italian cornel flies through the yielding air,
and, piercing the gullet, runs deep into his breast; a frothing tide pours from the dark yawning
wound, and the steel grows warm where it pierces the lung. Then Meropes and Erymas, then Aphidnus
goes down before his hand; then Bitias, fiery-eyed and exultant, not with a javelin; for not
to a javelin had he given his life; but the loud-whistling pike came hurled with a thunderbolt's
force; neither twofold bull's hide kept it back, nor the trusty corslet's double scales of
gold: his vast limbs sink in a heap; earth utters a groan, and the great shield clashes [710-745]over
him: even as once and again on the Euboïc shore of Baiae falls a mass of stone, built up of
great blocks and so cast into the sea; thus does it tumble prone, crashes into the shoal water
and sinks deep to rest; the seas are stirred, and the dark sand eddies up; therewith the depth
of Prochyta quivers at the sound, and the couchant rocks of Inarime, piled above Typhoeus by
Jove's commands.

On this Mars armipotent raised the spirit and strength of the Latins, and goaded their hearts
to rage, and sent Flight and dark Fear among the Teucrians. From all quarters they gather,
since battle is freely offered; and the warrior god inspires. . . . Pandarus, at his brother's
fall, sees how fortune stands, what hap rules the day; and swinging the gate round on its hinge
with all his force, pushes it to with his broad shoulders, leaving many of his own people shut
outside the walls in the desperate conflict, but shutting others in with him as they pour back
in retreat. Madman! who saw not the Rutulian prince burst in amid their columns, and fairly
shut him into the town, like a monstrous tiger among the silly flocks. At once strange light
flashed from his eyes, and his armour rang terribly; the blood-red plumes flicker on his head,
and lightnings shoot sparkling from his shield. In sudden dismay the Aeneadae know the hated
form and giant limbs. Then tall Pandarus leaps forward, in burning rage at his brother's death:
'This is not the palace of Amata's dower,' he cries, 'nor does Ardea enclose Turnus in her
native walls. Thou seest a hostile camp; escape hence is hopeless.' To him Turnus, smiling
and cool: 'Begin with all thy valiance, and close hand to hand; here too shalt thou tell that
a Priam found his Achilles.' He ended; the other, putting out all his strength, hurls his rough
spear, knotty and unpeeled. The breezes caught it; Juno, daughter of Saturn, [746-780]made
the wound glance off as it came, and the spear sticks fast in the gate. 'But this weapon that
my strong hand whirls, this thou shalt not escape; for not such is he who sends weapon and
wound.' So speaks he, and rises high on his uplifted sword; the steel severs the forehead midway
right between the temples, and divides the beardless cheeks with ghastly wound. He crashes
down; earth shakes under the vast weight; dying limbs and brain-spattered armour tumble in
a heap to the ground, and the head, evenly severed, dangles this way and that from either shoulder.
The Trojans scatter and turn in hasty terror; and had the conqueror forthwith taken thought
to burst the bars and let in his comrades at the gate, that had been the last day of the war
and of the nation. But rage and mad thirst of slaughter drive him like fire on the foe. . .
. First he catches up Phalaris; then Gyges, and hamstrings him; he plucks away their spears,
and hurls them on the backs of the flying crowd; Juno lends strength and courage. Halys he
sends to join them, and Phegeus, pierced right through the shield; then, as they ignorantly
raised their war-cry on the walls, Alcander and Halius, Noëmon and Prytanis. Lynceus advanced
to meet him, calling up his comrades; from the rampart the glittering sword sweeps to the left
and catches him; struck off by the one downright blow, head and helmet lay far away. Next Amycus
fell, the deadly huntsman, incomparable in skill of hand to anoint his arrows and arm their
steel with venom; and Clytius the Aeolid, and Cretheus beloved of the Muses, Cretheus of the
Muses' company, whose delight was ever in songs and harps and stringing of verses; ever he
sang of steeds and armed men and battles.

At last, hearing of the slaughter of their men, the Teucrian captains, Mnestheus and gallant
Serestus, come up, and see their comrades in disordered flight and the foe [781-814]let in.
And Mnestheus: 'Whither next, whither press you in flight? what other walls, what farther city
have you yet? Shall one man, and he girt in on all sides, fellow-citizens, by your entrenchments,
thus unchecked deal devastation throughout our city, and send all our best warriors to the
under world? Have you no pity, no shame, cowards, for your unhappy country, for your ancient
gods, for great Aeneas?'

Kindled by such words, they take heart and rally in dense array. Little by little Turnus drew
away from the fight towards the river, and the side encircled by the stream: the more bravely
the Teucrians press on him with loud shouts and thickening masses, even as a band that fall
on a wrathful lion with levelled weapons, but he, frightened back, retires surly and grim-glaring;
and neither does wrath nor courage let him turn his back, nor can he make head, for all that
he desires it, against the surrounding arms and men. Even thus Turnus draws lingeringly backward,
with unhastened steps, and soul boiling in anger. Nay, twice even then did he charge amid the
enemy, twice drove them in flying rout along the walls. But all the force of the camp gathers
hastily up; nor does Juno, daughter of Saturn, dare to supply him strength to countervail;
for Jupiter sent Iris down through the aery sky, bearing stern orders to his sister that Turnus
shall withdraw from the high Trojan town. Therefore neither with shield nor hand can he keep
his ground, so overpoweringly from all sides comes upon him the storm of weapons. About the
hollows of his temples the helmet rings with incessant clash, and the solid brass is riven
beneath the stones; the horsehair crest is rent away; the shield-boss avails not under the
blows; Mnestheus thunders on with his Trojans, and pours in a storm of spears. All over him
the sweat trickles and pours in swart stream, and no breathing space is given; sick gasps shake
[815-818]his exhausted limbs. Then at last, with a headlong bound, he leapt fully armed into
the river; the river's yellow eddies opened for him as he came, and the buoyant water brought
him up, and, washing away the slaughter, returned him triumphant to his comrades.

BOOK TENTH

THE BATTLE ON THE BEACH

Meanwhile the heavenly house omnipotent unfolds her doors, and the father of gods and king
of men calls a council in the starry dwelling; whence he looks sheer down on the whole earth,
the Dardanian camp, and the peoples of Latium. They sit down within from doorway to doorway:
their lord begins:

'Lords of heaven, wherefore is your decree turned back, and your minds thus jealously at strife?
I forbade Italy to join battle with the Teucrians; why this quarrel in face of my injunction?
What terror hath bidden one or another run after arms and tempt the sword? The due time of
battle will arrive, call it not forth, when furious Carthage shall one day sunder the Alps
to hurl ruin full on the towers of Rome. Then hatred may grapple with hatred, then hostilities
be opened; now let them be, and cheerfully join in the treaty we ordain.'

Thus Jupiter in brief; but not briefly golden Venus returns in answer: . . .

'O Lord, O everlasting Governor of men and things--for what else may we yet supplicate?--beholdest
thou how the Rutulians brave it, and Turnus, borne charioted through the ranks, proudly sweeps
down the tide of battle? Bar [22-58]and bulwark no longer shelter the Trojans; nay, within
the gates and even on the mounded walls they clash in battle and make the trenches swim with
blood. Aeneas is away and ignorant. Wilt thou never then let our leaguer be raised? Again a
foe overhangs the walls of infant Troy; and another army, and a second son of Tydeus rises
from Aetolian Arpi against the Trojans. Truly I think my wounds are yet to come, and I thy
child am keeping some mortal weapons idle. If the Trojans steered for Italy without thy leave
and defiant of thy deity, let them expiate their sin; aid not such with thy succour. But if
so many oracles guided them, given by god and ghost, why may aught now reverse thine ordinance
or write destiny anew? Why should I recall the fleets burned on the coast of Eryx? why the
king of storms, and the raging winds roused from Aeolia, or Iris driven down the clouds? Now
hell too is stirred (this share of the world was yet untried) and Allecto suddenly let loose
above to riot through the Italian towns. In no wise am I moved for empire; that was our hope
while Fortune stood; let those conquer whom thou wilt. If thy cruel wife leave no region free
to Teucrians, by the smoking ruins of desolated Troy, O father, I beseech thee, grant Ascanius
unhurt retreat from arms, grant me my child's life. Aeneas may well be tossed over unknown
seas and follow what path soever fortune open to him; him let me avail to shelter and withdraw
from the turmoil of battle. Amathus is mine, high Paphos and Cythera, and my house of Idalia;
here, far from arms, let him spend an inglorious life. Bid Carthage in high lordship rule Ausonia;
there will be nothing there to check the Tyrian cities. What help was it for the Trojans to
escape war's doom and thread their flight through Argive fires, to have exhausted all those
perils of sea and desolate lands, while they seek Latium and the towers of a Troy rebuilt?
Were it not better to have [59-91]clung to the last ashes of their country, and the ground
where once was Troy? Give back, I pray, Xanthus and Simoïs to a wretched people, and let the
Teucrians again, O Lord, circle through the fates of Ilium.'

Then Queen Juno, swift and passionate:

'Why forcest thou me to break long silence and proclaim my hidden pain? Hath any man or god
constrained Aeneas to court war or make armed attack on King Latinus? In oracular guidance
he steered for Italy: be it so: he whom raving Cassandra sent on his way! Did we urge him to
quit the camp or entrust his life to the winds? to give the issue of war and the charge of
his ramparts to a child? to stir the loyalty of Tyrrhenia or throw peaceful nations into tumult?
What god, what potent cruelty of ours, hath driven him on his hurt? Where is Juno in this,
or Iris sped down the clouds? It shocks thee that Italians should enring an infant Troy with
flame, and Turnus set foot on his own ancestral soil--he, grandchild of Pilumnus, son of Venilia
the goddess: how, that the dark brands of Troy assail the Latins? that Trojans subjugate and
plunder fields not their own? how, that they choose their brides and tear plighted bosom from
bosom? that their gestures plead for peace, and their ships are lined with arms? Thou canst
steal thine Aeneas from Grecian hands, and spread before them a human semblance of mist and
empty air; thou canst turn his fleet into nymphs of like number: is it dreadful if we retaliate
with any aid to the Rutulians? Aeneas is away and ignorant; away and ignorant let him be. Paphos
is thine and Idalium, thine high Cythera; why meddlest thou with fierce spirits and a city
big with war? Is it we who would overthrow the tottering state of Phrygia? we? or he who brought
the Achaeans down on the hapless Trojans? who made Europe and Asia bristle up in arms, and
whose theft shattered the alliance? Was it in my guidance the [92-125]adulterous Dardanian
broke into Sparta? or did I send the shafts of passion that kindled war? Then terror for thy
children had graced thee; too late now dost thou rise with unjust complaints, and reproaches
leave thy lips in vain.'

Thus Juno pleaded; and all the heavenly people murmured in diverse consent; even as rising
gusts murmur when caught in the forests, and eddy in blind moanings, betraying to sailors the
gale's approach. Then the Lord omnipotent and primal power of the world begins; as he speaks
the high house of the gods and trembling floor of earth sink to silence; silent is the deep
sky, and the breezes are stilled; ocean hushes his waters into calm.

'Take then to heart and lay deep these words of mine. Since it may not be that Ausonians and
Teucrians join alliance, and your quarrel finds no term, to-day, what fortune each wins, what
hope each follows, be he Trojan or Rutulian, I will hold in even poise; whether it be Italy's
fate or Trojan blundering and ill advice that holds the camp in leaguer. Nor do I acquit the
Rutulians. Each as he hath begun shall work out his destiny. Jupiter is one and king over all;
the fates will find their way.' By his brother's infernal streams, by the banks of the pitchy
black-boiling chasm he signed assent, and made all Olympus quiver at his nod. Here speaking
ended: thereon Jupiter rises from his golden throne, and the heavenly people surround and escort
him to the doorway.

Meanwhile the Rutulians press round all the gates, dealing grim slaughter and girdling the
walls with flame. But the army of the Aeneadae are held leaguered within their trenches, with
no hope of retreat. They stand helpless and disconsolate on their high towers, and their thin
ring girdles the walls,--Asius, son of Imbrasus, and Thymoetes, son of Hicetaon, and the two
Assaraci, and Castor, and old Thymbris together in the front rank: by them Clarus and [126-160]Themon,
both full brothers to Sarpedon, out of high Lycia. Acmon of Lyrnesus, great as his father Clytius,
or his brother Mnestheus, carries a stone, straining all his vast frame to the huge mountain
fragment. Emulously they keep their guard, these with javelins, those with stones, and wield
fire and fit arrows on the string. Amid them he, Venus' fittest care, lo! the Dardanian boy,
his graceful head uncovered, shines even as a gem set in red gold on ornament of throat or
head, or even as gleaming ivory cunningly inlaid in boxwood or Orician terebinth; his tresses
lie spread over his milk-white neck, bound by a flexible circlet of gold. Thee, too, Ismarus,
proud nations saw aiming wounds and arming thy shafts with poison,--thee, of house illustrious
in Maeonia, where the rich tilth is wrought by men's hands, and Pactolus waters it with gold.
There too was Mnestheus, exalted in fame as he who erewhile had driven Turnus from the ramparts;
and Capys, from whom is drawn the name of the Campanian city.

They had closed in grim war's mutual conflict; Aeneas, while night was yet deep, clove the
seas. For when, leaving Evander for the Etruscan camp, he hath audience of the king, and tells
the king of his name and race, and what he asks or offers, instructs him of the arms Mezentius
is winning to his side, and of Turnus' overbearing spirit, reminds him what is all the certainty
of human things, and mingles all with entreaties; delaying not, Tarchon joins forces and strikes
alliance. Then, freed from the oracle, the Lydian people man their fleet, laid by divine ordinance
in the foreign captain's hand. Aeneas' galley keeps in front, with the lions of Phrygia fastened
on her prow, above them overhanging Ida, sight most welcome to the Trojan exiles. Here great
Aeneas sits revolving the changing issues of war; and Pallas, clinging on his left side, asks
now [161-195]of the stars and their pathway through the dark night, now of his fortunes by
land and sea.

Open now the gates of Helicon, goddesses, and stir the song of the band that come the while
with Aeneas from the Tuscan borders, and sail in armed ships overseas.

First in the brazen-plated Tiger Massicus cuts the flood; beneath him are ranked a thousand
men who have left Clusium town and the city of Cosae; their weapons are arrows, and light quivers
on the shoulder, and their deadly bow. With him goes grim Abas, all his train in shining armour,
and a gilded Apollo glittering astern. To him Populonia had given six hundred of her children,
tried in war, but Ilva three hundred, the island rich in unexhausted mines of steel. Third
Asilas, interpreter between men and gods, master of the entrails of beasts and the stars in
heaven, of speech of birds and ominous lightning flashes, draws a thousand men after him in
serried lines bristling with spears, bidden to his command from Pisa city, of Alphaean birth
on Etruscan soil. Astyr follows, excellent in beauty, Astyr, confident in his horse and glancing
arms. Three hundred more--all have one heart to follow--come from the householders of Caere
and the fields of Minio, and ancient Pyrgi, and fever-stricken Graviscae.

Let me not pass thee by, O Cinyras, bravest in war of Ligurian captains, and thee, Cupavo,
with thy scant company, from whose crest rise the swan plumes, fault, O Love, of thee and thine,
and blazonment of his father's form. For they tell that Cycnus, in grief for his beloved Phaëthon,
while he sings and soothes his woeful love with music amid the shady sisterhood of poplar boughs,
drew over him the soft plumage of white old age, and left earth and passed crying through the
sky. His son, followed on shipboard with a band of like age, sweeps the huge Centaur forward
with his oars; he leans over the water, and [196-227]threatens the waves with a vast rock he
holds on high, and furrows the deep seas with his length of keel.

He too calls a train from his native coasts, Ocnus, son of prophetic Manto and the river of
Tuscany, who gave thee, O Mantua, ramparts and his mother's name; Mantua, rich in ancestry,
yet not all of one blood, a threefold race, and under each race four cantons; herself she is
the cantons' head, and her strength is of Tuscan blood. From her likewise hath Mezentius five
hundred in arms against him, whom Mincius, child of Benacus, draped in gray reeds, led to battle
in his advancing pine. Aulestes moves on heavily, smiting the waves with the swinging forest
of an hundred oars; the channels foam as they sweep the sea-floor. He sails in the vast Triton,
who amazes the blue waterways with his shell, and swims on with shaggy front, in human show
from the flank upward; his belly ends in a dragon; beneath the monster's breast the wave gurgles
into foam. So many were the chosen princes who went in thirty ships to aid Troy, and cut the
salt plains with brazen prow.

And now day had faded from the sky, and gracious Phoebe trod mid-heaven in the chariot of her
nightly wandering: Aeneas, for his charge allows not rest to his limbs, himself sits guiding
the tiller and managing the sails. And lo, in middle course a band of his own fellow-voyagers
meets him, the nymphs whom bountiful Cybele had bidden be gods of the sea, and turn to nymphs
from ships; they swam on in even order, and cleft the flood, as many as erewhile, brazen-plated
prows, had anchored on the beach. From far they know their king, and wheel their bands about
him, and Cymodocea, their readiest in speech, comes up behind, catching the stern with her
right hand: her back rises out, and her left hand oars her passage through the silent water.
Then she thus [228-261]accosts her amazed lord: 'Wakest thou, seed of gods, Aeneas? wake, and
loosen the sheets of thy sails. We are thy fleet, Idaean pines from the holy hill, now nymphs
of the sea. When the treacherous Rutulian urged us headlong with sword and fire, unwillingly
we broke thy bonds, and we search for thee over ocean. This new guise our Lady made for us
in pity, and granted us to be goddesses and spend our life under the waves. But thy boy Ascanius
is held within wall and trench among the Latin weapons and the rough edge of war. Already the
Arcadian cavalry and the brave Etruscan together hold the appointed ground. Turnus' plan is
fixed to bar their way with his squadrons, that they may not reach the camp. Up and arise,
and ere the coming of the Dawn bid thy crews be called to arms; and take thou the shield which
the Lord of Fire forged for victory and rimmed about with gold. To-morrow's daylight, if thou
deem not my words vain, shall see Rutulians heaped high in slaughter.' She ended, and, as she
went, pushed the tall ship on with her hand wisely and well; the ship shoots through the water
fleeter than javelin or windswift arrow. Thereat the rest quicken their speed. The son of Anchises
of Troy is himself deep in bewilderment; yet the omen cheers his courage. Then looking on the
heavenly vault, he briefly prays: 'O gracious upon Ida, mother of gods, whose delight is in
Dindymus and turreted cities and lions coupled to thy rein, do thou lead me in battle, do thou
meetly prosper thine augury, and draw nigh thy Phrygians, goddess, with favourable feet.' Thus
much he spoke; and meanwhile the broad light of returning day now began to pour in, and chased
away the night. First he commands his comrades to follow his signals, brace their courage to
arms and prepare for battle. And now his Trojans and his camp are in his sight as he stands
high astern, when next he lifts the [262-296]blazing shield on his left arm. The Dardanians
on the walls raise a shout to the sky. Hope comes to kindle wrath; they hurl their missiles
strongly; even as under black clouds cranes from the Strymon utter their signal notes and sail
clamouring across the sky, and noisily stream down the gale. But this seemed marvellous to
the Rutulian king and the captains of Ausonia, till looking back they see the ships steering
for the beach, and all the sea as a single fleet sailing in. His helmet-spike blazes, flame
pours from the cresting plumes, and the golden shield-boss spouts floods of fire; even as when
in transparent night comets glow blood-red and drear, or the splendour of Sirius, that brings
drought and sicknesses on wretched men, rises and saddens the sky with malignant beams.

Yet gallant Turnus in unfailing confidence will prevent them on the shore and repel their approach
to land. 'What your prayers have sought is given, the sweep of the sword-arm. The god of battles
is in the hands of men. Now remember each his wife and home: now recall the high deeds of our
fathers' honour. Let us challenge meeting at the water's edge, while they waver and their feet
yet slip as they disembark. Fortune aids daring. . . .' So speaks he, and counsels inly whom
he shall lead to meet them, whom leave in charge of the leaguered walls.

Meanwhile Aeneas lands his allies by gangways from the high ships. Many watch the retreat and
slack of the sea, and leap boldly into the shoal water; others slide down the oars. Tarchon,
marking the shore where the shallows do not seethe and plash with broken water, but the sea
glides up and spreads its tide unbroken, suddenly turns his bows to land and implores his comrades:
'Now, O chosen crew, bend strongly to your oars; lift your ships, make them go; let the prows
cleave this hostile land and the keel plough [297-330]herself a furrow. I will let my vessel
break up on such harbourage if once she takes the land.' When Tarchon had spoken in such wise,
his comrades rise on their oar-blades and carry their ships in foam towards the Latin fields,
till the prows are fast on dry land and all the keels are aground unhurt. But not thy galley,
Tarchon; for she dashes on a shoal, and swings long swaying on the cruel bank, pitching and
slapping the flood, then breaks up, and lands her crew among the waves. Broken oars and floating
thwarts entangle them, and the ebbing wave sucks their feet away.

Nor does Turnus keep idly dallying, but swiftly hurries his whole array against the Trojans
and ranges it to face the beach. The trumpets blow. At once Aeneas charges and confounds the
rustic squadrons of the Latins, and slays Theron for omen of battle. The giant advances to
challenge Aeneas; but through sewed plates of brass and tunic rough with gold the sword plunges
in his open side. Next he strikes Lichas, cut from his mother already dead, and consecrated,
Phoebus, to thee, since his infancy was granted escape from the perilous steel. Near thereby
he struck dead brawny Cisseus and vast Gyas, whose clubs were mowing down whole files: naught
availed them the arms of Hercules and their strength of hand, nor Melampus their father, ever
of Alcides' company while earth yielded him sore travail. Lo! while Pharus utters weak vaunts
the hurled javelin strikes on his shouting mouth. Thou too, while thou followest thy new delight,
Clytius, whose cheeks are golden with youthful down--thou, luckless Cydon, struck down by the
Dardanian hand, wert lying past thought, ah pitiable! of the young loves that were ever thine,
did not the close array of thy brethren interpose, the children of Phorcus, seven in number,
and send a sevenfold shower of darts. Some glance ineffectual from helmet and shield; [331-365]some
Venus the bountiful turned aside as they grazed his body. Aeneas calls to trusty Achates: 'Give
me store of weapons; none that hath been planted in Grecian body on the plains of Ilium shall
my hand hurl at Rutulian in vain.' Then he catches and throws his great spear; the spear flies
grinding through the brass of Maeon's shield, and breaks through corslet and through breast.
His brother Alcanor runs up and sustains with his right arm his sinking brother; through his
arm the spear passes speeding straight on its message, and holds its bloody way, and the hand
dangles by the sinews lifeless from the shoulder. Then Numitor, seizing his dead brother's
javelin, aims at Aeneas, but might not fairly pierce him, and grazed tall Achates on the thigh.
Here Clausus of Cures comes confident in his pride of strength, and with a long reach strikes
Dryops under the chin, and, urging the stiff spear-shaft home, stops the accents of his speech
and his life together, piercing the throat; but he strikes the earth with his forehead, and
vomits clots of blood. Three Thracians likewise of Boreas' sovereign race, and three sent by
their father Idas from their native Ismarus, fall in divers wise before him. Halesus and his
Auruncan troops hasten thither; Messapus too, seed of Neptune, comes up charioted. This side
and that strive to hurl back the enemy, and fight hard on the very edge of Ausonia. As when
in the depth of air adverse winds rise in battle with equal spirit and strength; not they,
not clouds nor sea, yield one to another; long the battle is doubtful; all stands locked in
counterpoise: even thus clash the ranks of Troy and ranks of Latium, foot fast on foot, and
man crowded up on man.

But in another quarter, where a torrent had driven a wide path of rolling stones and bushes
torn away from the banks, Pallas saw his Arcadians, unaccustomed to move as infantry, giving
back before the Latin pursuit, when the [366-400]roughness of the ground bade them dismount.
This only was left in his strait, to kindle them to valour, now by entreaties, now by taunts:
'Whither flee you, comrades? by your deeds of bravery, by your leader Evander's name, by your
triumphant campaigns, and my hope that now rises to rival my father's honour, trust not to
flight. Our swords must hew a way through the enemy. Where yonder mass of men presses thickest,
there your proud country calls you with Pallas at your head. No gods are they who bear us down;
mortals, we feel the pressure of a mortal foe; we have as many lives and hands as he. Lo, the
deep shuts us in with vast sea barrier; even now land fails our flight; shall we make ocean
or Troy our goal?'

So speaks he, and bursts amid the serried foe. First Lagus meets him, drawn thither by malign
destiny; him, as he tugs at a ponderous stone, hurling his spear where the spine ran dissevering
the ribs, he pierces and wrenches out the spear where it stuck fast in the bone. Nor does Hisbo
catch him stooping, for all that he hoped it; for Pallas, as he rushes unguarded on, furious
at his comrade's cruel death, receives him on his sword and buries it in his distended lungs.
Next he attacks Sthenius, and Anchemolus of Rhoetus' ancient family, who dared to violate the
bridal chamber of his stepmother. You, too, the twins Larides and Thymber, fell on the Rutulian
fields, children of Daucus, indistinguishable for likeness and a sweet perplexity to your parents.
But now Pallas made cruel difference between you; for thy head, Thymber, is swept off by Evander's
sword; thy right hand, Larides, severed, seeks its master, and the dying fingers jerk and clutch
at the sword. Fired by his encouragement, and beholding his noble deeds, the Arcadians advance
in wrath and shame to meet the enemy in arms. Then Pallas pierces Rhoeteus as he flies past
in his chariot. This space, this [401-435]much of respite was given to Ilus; for at Ilus he
had aimed the strong spear from afar, and Rhoeteus intercepts its passage, in flight from thee,
noble Teuthras and Tyres thy brother; he rolls from the chariot in death, and his heels strike
the Rutulian fields. And as the shepherd, when summer winds have risen to his desire, kindles
the woods dispersedly; on a sudden the mid spaces catch, and a single flickering line of fire
spreads wide over the plain; he sits looking down on his conquest and the revel of the flames;
even so, Pallas, do thy brave comrades gather close to sustain thee. But warrior Halesus advances
full on them, gathering himself behind his armour; he slays Ladon, Pheres, Demodocus; his gleaming
sword shears off Strymonius' hand as it rises to his throat; he strikes Thoas on the face with
a stone, and drives the bones asunder in a shattered mass of blood and brains. Halesus had
his father the soothsayer kept hidden in the woodland: when the old man's glazing eyes sank
to death, the Fates laid hand on him and devoted him to the arms of Evander. Pallas aims at
him, first praying thus: 'Grant now, lord Tiber, to the steel I poise and hurl, a prosperous
way through brawny Halesus' breast; thine oak shall bear these arms and the dress he wore.'
The god heard it; while Halesus covers Imaon, he leaves, alas! his breast unarmed to the Arcadian's
weapon. Yet at his grievous death Lausus, himself a great arm of the war, lets not his columns
be dismayed; at once he meets and cuts down Abas, the check and stay of their battle. The men
of Arcadia go down before him; down go the Etruscans, and you, O Teucrians, invincible by Greece.
The armies close, matched in strength and in captains; the rear ranks crowd in; weapons and
hands are locked in the press. Here Pallas strains and pushes on, here Lausus opposite, nearly
matched in age, excellent in beauty; but fortune [436-467]had denied both return to their own
land. Yet that they should meet face to face the sovereign of high Olympus allowed not; an
early fate awaits them beneath a mightier foe.

Meanwhile Turnus' gracious sister bids him take Lausus' room, and his fleet chariot parts the
ranks. When he saw his comrades, 'It is time,' he cried, 'to stay from battle. I alone must
assail Pallas; to me and none other Pallas is due; I would his father himself were here to
see.' So speaks he, and his Rutulians draw back from a level space at his bidding. But then
as they withdrew, he, wondering at the haughty command, stands in amaze at Turnus, his eyes
scanning the vast frame, and his fierce glance perusing him from afar. And with these words
he returns the words of the monarch: 'For me, my praise shall even now be in the lordly spoils
I win, or in illustrious death: my father will bear calmly either lot: away with menaces.'
He speaks, and advances into the level ring. The Arcadians' blood gathers chill about their
hearts. Turnus leaps from his chariot and prepares to close with him. And as a lion sees from
some lofty outlook a bull stand far off on the plain revolving battle, and flies at him, even
such to see is Turnus' coming. When Pallas deemed him within reach of a spear-throw, he advances,
if so chance may assist the daring of his overmatched strength, and thus cries into the depth
of sky: 'By my father's hospitality and the board whereto thou camest a wanderer, on thee I
call, Alcides; be favourable to my high emprise; let Turnus even in death discern me stripping
his blood-stained armour, and his swooning eyes endure the sight of his conqueror.' Alcides
heard him, and deep in his heart he stifled a heavy sigh, and let idle tears fall. Then with
kindly words the father accosts his son: 'Each hath his own appointed day; short and irrecoverable
[468-502]is the span of life for all: but to spread renown by deeds is the task of valour.
Under high Troy town many and many a god's son fell; nay, mine own child Sarpedon likewise
perished. Turnus too his own fate summons, and his allotted period hath reached the goal.'
So speaks he, and turns his eyes away from the Rutulian fields. But Pallas hurls his spear
with all his strength, and pulls his sword flashing out of the hollow scabbard. The flying
spear lights where the armour rises high above the shoulder, and, forcing a way through the
shield's rim, ceased not till it drew blood from mighty Turnus. At this Turnus long poises
the spear-shaft with its sharp steel head, and hurls it on Pallas with these words: See thou
if our weapon have not a keener point. He ended; but for all the shield's plating of iron and
brass, for all the bull-hide that covers it round about, the quivering spear-head smashes it
fair through and through, passes the guard of the corslet, and pierces the breast with a gaping
hole. He tears the warm weapon from the wound; in vain; together and at once life-blood and
sense follow it. He falls heavily on the ground, his armour clashes over him, and his bloodstained
face sinks in death on the hostile soil. And Turnus standing over him . . .: 'Arcadians,' he
cries, 'remember these my words, and bear them to Evander. I send him back his Pallas as was
due. All the meed of the tomb, all the solace of sepulture, I give freely. Dearly must he pay
his welcome to Aeneas.' And with these words, planting his left foot on the dead, he tore away
the broad heavy sword-belt engraven with a tale of crime, the array of grooms foully slain
together on their bridal night, and the nuptial chambers dabbled with blood, which Clonus,
son of Eurytus, had wrought richly in gold. Now Turnus exults in spoiling him of it, and rejoices
at his prize. Ah spirit of man, ignorant of fate and the allotted future, or to keep bounds
when elate with prosperity!--the day will [503-535]come when Turnus shall desire to have bought
Pallas' safety at a great ransom, and curse the spoils of this fatal day. But with many moans
and tears Pallas' comrades lay him on his shield and bear him away amid their ranks. O grief
and glory and grace of the father to whom thou shalt return! This one day sent thee first to
war, this one day takes thee away, while yet thou leavest heaped high thy Rutulian dead.

And now no rumour of the dreadful loss, but a surer messenger flies to Aeneas, telling him
his troops are on the thin edge of doom; it is time to succour the routed Teucrians. He mows
down all that meets him, and hews a broad path through their columns with furious sword, as
he seeks thee, O Turnus, in thy fresh pride of slaughter. Pallas, Evander, all flash before
his eyes; the board whereto but then he had first come a wanderer, and the clasped hands. Here
four of Sulmo's children, as many more of Ufens' nurture, are taken by him alive to slaughter
in sacrifice to the shade below, and slake the flames of the pyre with captive blood. Next
he levelled his spear full on Magus from far. He stoops cunningly; the spear flies quivering
over him; and, clasping his knees, he speaks thus beseechingly: 'By thy father's ghost, by
Iülus thy growing hope, I entreat thee, save this life for a child and a parent. My house is
stately; deep in it lies buried wealth of engraven silver; I have masses of wrought and unwrought
gold. The victory of Troy does not turn on this, nor will a single life make so great a difference.'
He ended; to him Aeneas thus returns answer: 'All the wealth of silver and gold thou tellest
of, spare thou for thy children. Turnus hath broken off this thy trafficking in war, even then
when Pallas fell. Thus judges the ghost of my father Anchises, thus Iülus.' So speaking, he
grasps his helmet with his left hand, and, bending back his neck, drives his [536-572]sword
up to the hilt in the suppliant. Hard by is Haemonides, priest of Phoebus and Trivia, his temples
wound with the holy ribboned chaplet, all glittering in white-robed array. Him he meets and
chases down the plain, and, standing over his fallen foe, slaughters him and wraps him in great
darkness; Serestus gathers the armour and carries it away on his shoulders, a trophy, King
Gradivus, to thee. Caeculus, born of Vulcan's race, and Umbro, who comes from the Marsian hills,
fill up the line. The Dardanian rushes full on them. His sword had hewn off Anxur's left arm,
with all the circle of the shield--he had uttered brave words and deemed his prowess would
second his vaunts, and perchance with spirit lifted up had promised himself hoar age and length
of years--when Tarquitus in the pride of his glittering arms met his fiery course, whom the
nymph Dryope had borne to Faunus, haunter of the woodland. Drawing back his spear, he pins
the ponderous shield to the corslet; then, as he vainly pleaded and would say many a thing,
strikes his head to the ground, and, rolling away the warm body, cries thus over his enemy:
'Lie there now, terrible one! no mother's love shall lay thee in the sod, or place thy limbs
beneath thine heavy ancestral tomb. To birds of prey shalt thou be left, or borne down sunk
in the eddying water, where hungry fish shall suck thy wounds.' Next he sweeps on Antaeus and
Lucas, the first of Turnus' train, and brave Numa and tawny-haired Camers, born of noble Volscens,
who was wealthiest in land of the Ausonians, and reigned in silent Amyclae. Even as Aegaeon,
who, men say, had an hundred arms, an hundred hands, fifty mouths and breasts ablaze with fire,
and arrayed against Jove's thunders as many clashing shields and drawn swords: so Aeneas, when
once his sword's point grew warm, rages victorious over all the field. Nay, lo! he darts full
in face on Niphaeus' four-horse chariot; before his long strides [573-608]and dreadful cry
they turned in terror and dashed back, throwing out their driver and tearing the chariot down
the beach. Meanwhile the brothers Lucagus and Liger drive up with their pair of white horses.
Lucagus valiantly waves his drawn sword, while his brother wheels his horses with the rein.
Aeneas, wrathful at their mad onslaught, rushes on them, towering high with levelled spear.
To him Liger . . . 'Not Diomede's horses dost thou discern, nor Achilles' chariot, nor the
plains of Phrygia: now on this soil of ours the war and thy life shall end together.' Thus
fly mad Liger's random words. But not in words does the Trojan hero frame his reply: for he
hurls his javelin at the foe. As Lucagus spurred on his horses, bending forward over the whip,
with left foot advanced ready for battle, the spear passes through the lower rim of his shining
shield and pierces his left groin, knocks him out of the chariot, and stretches him in death
on the fields. To him good Aeneas speaks in bitter words: 'Lucagus, no slackness in thy coursers'
flight hath betrayed thee, or vain shadow of the foe turned them back; thyself thou leapest
off the harnessed wheels.' In such wise he spoke, and caught the horses. His brother, slipping
down from the chariot, pitiably outstretched helpless hands: 'Ah, by the parents who gave thee
birth, great Trojan, spare this life and pity my prayer.' More he was pleading; but Aeneas:
'Not such were the words thou wert uttering. Die, and be brother undivided from brother.' With
that his sword's point pierces the breast where the life lies hid. Thus the Dardanian captain
dealt death over the plain, like some raging torrent stream or black whirlwind. At last the
boy Ascanius and his troops burst through the ineffectual leaguer and issue from the camp.

Meanwhile Jupiter breaks silence to accost Juno: 'O sister and wife best beloved, it is Venus,
as thou deemedst, [609-639]nor is thy judgment astray, who sustains the forces of Troy; not
their own valour of hand in war, and untamable spirit and endurance in peril.' To whom Juno
beseechingly:

'Why, fair my lord, vexest thou one sick at heart and trembling at thy bitter words? If that
force were in my love that once was, and that was well, never had thine omnipotence denied
me leave to withdraw Turnus from battle and preserve him for his father Daunus in safety. Now
let him perish, and pay forfeit to the Trojans of his innocent blood. Yet he traces his birth
from our name, and Pilumnus was his father in the fourth generation, and oft and again his
bountiful hand hath heaped thy courts with gifts.'

To her the king of high heaven thus briefly spoke: 'If thy prayer for him is delay of present
death and respite from his fall, and thou dost understand that I ordain it thus, remove thy
Turnus in flight, and snatch him from the fate that is upon him. For so much indulgence there
is room. But if any ampler grace mask itself in these thy prayers, and thou dreamest of change
in the whole movement of the war, idle is the hope thou nursest.'

And Juno, weeping: 'Ah yet, if thy mind were gracious where thy lips are stern, and this gift
of life might remain confirmed to Turnus! Now his portion is bitter and guiltless death, or
I wander idly from the truth. Yet, oh that I rather deluded myself with false alarms, and thou
who canst wouldst bend thy course to better counsels.'

These words uttered, she darted through the air straight from high heaven, cloud-girt in driving
tempest, and sought the Ilian ranks and camp of Laurentum. Then the goddess, strange and ominous
to see, fashions into the likeness of Aeneas a thin and pithless shade of hollow mist, decks
it with Dardanian weapons, and gives it the mimicry of shield and divine helmet plume, gives
unsubstantial [640-673]words and senseless utterance, and the mould and motion of his tread:
like shapes rumoured to flit when death is past, or dreams that delude the slumbering senses.
But in front of the battle-ranks the phantom dances rejoicingly, and with arms and mocking
accents provokes the foe. Turnus hastens up and sends his spear whistling from far on it; it
gives back and turns its footsteps. Then indeed Turnus, when he believed Aeneas turned and
fled from him, and his spirit madly drank in the illusive hope: 'Whither fliest thou, Aeneas?
forsake not thy plighted bridal chamber. This hand shall give thee the land thou hast sought
overseas.' So clamouring he pursues, and brandishes his drawn sword, and sees not that his
rejoicing is drifting with the winds. The ship lay haply moored to a high ledge of rock, with
ladders run out and gangway ready, wherein king Osinius sailed from the coasts of Clusium.
Here the fluttering phantom of flying Aeneas darts and hides itself. Nor is Turnus slack to
follow; he overleaps the barriers and springs across the high gangways. Scarcely had he lighted
on the prow; the daughter of Saturn snaps the hawser, and the ship, parted from her cable,
runs out on the ebbing tide. And him Aeneas seeks for battle and finds not, and sends many
a man that meets him to death. Then the light phantom seeks not yet any further hiding-place,
but, flitting aloft, melts in a dark cloud; and a blast comes down meanwhile and sweeps Turnus
through the seas. He looks back, witless of his case and thankless for his salvation, and,
wailing, stretches both hands to heaven: 'Father omnipotent, was I so guilty in thine eyes,
and is this the punishment thou hast ordained? Whither am I borne? whence came I? what flight
is this, or in what guise do I return? Shall I look again on the camp or walls of Laurentum?
What of that array of men who followed me to arms? whom--oh horrible!--I have abandoned all
amid [674-707]a dreadful death; and now I see the stragglers and catch the groans of those
who fall. What do I? or how may earth ever yawn for me deep enough? Do you rather, O winds,
be pitiful, carry my bark on rock or reef; it is I, Turnus, who desire and implore you; or
drive me on the cruel shoals of the Syrtis, where no Rutulian may follow nor rumour know my
name.' Thus speaking, he wavers in mind this way and that: maddened by the shame, shall he
plunge on his sword's harsh point and drive it through his side, or fling himself among the
waves, and seek by swimming to gain the winding shore, again to return on the Trojan arms?
Thrice he essayed either way; thrice queenly Juno checked and restrained him in pity of heart.
Cleaving the deep, he floats with the tide down the flood, and is borne on to his father Daunus'
ancient city.

But meanwhile at Jove's prompting fiery Mezentius takes his place in the battle and assails
the triumphant Teucrians. The Tyrrhene ranks gather round him, and all at once in unison shower
their darts down on the hated foe. As a cliff that juts into the waste of waves, meeting the
raging winds and breasting the deep, endures all the threatening force of sky and sea, itself
fixed immovable, so he dashes to earth Hebrus son of Dolichaon, and with him Latagus, and Palmus
as he fled; catching Latagus full front in the face with a vast fragment of mountain rock,
while Palmus he hamstrings, and leaves him rolling helpless; his armour he gives Lausus to
wear on his shoulders, and the plumes to fix on his crest. With them fall Evanthes the Phrygian,
and Mimas, fellow and birthmate of Paris; for on one night Theano bore him to his father Amycus,
and the queen, Cisseus' daughter, was delivered of Paris the firebrand; he sleeps in his fathers'
city; Mimas lies a stranger on the Laurentian coast. And as the boar driven by snapping hounds
from the mountain heights, [708-744]many a year hidden by Vesulus in his pines, many an one
fed in the Laurentian marsh among the reedy forest, once come among the nets, halts and snorts
savagely, with shoulders bristling up, and none of them dare be wrathful or draw closer, but
they shower from a safe distance their darts and cries; even thus none of those whose anger
is righteous against Mezentius have courage to meet him with drawn weapon: far off they provoke
him with missiles and huge clamour, and he turns slow and fearless round about, grinding his
teeth as he shakes the spears off his shield. From the bounds of ancient Corythus Acron the
Greek had come, leaving for exile a bride half won. Seeing him afar dealing confusion amid
the ranks, in crimson plumes and his plighted wife's purple,--as an unpastured lion often ranging
the deep coverts, for madness of hunger urges him, if he haply catches sight of a timorous
roe or high-antlered stag, he gapes hugely for joy, and, with mane on end, clings crouching
over its flesh, his cruel mouth bathed in reeking gore. . . . so Mezentius darts lightly among
the thick of the enemy. Hapless Acron goes down, and, spurning the dark ground, gasps out his
life, and covers the broken javelin with his blood. But the victor deigned not to bring down
Orodes with the blind wound of his flying lance as he fled; full face to face he meets him,
and engages man with man, conqueror not by stealth but armed valour. Then, as with planted
foot, he thrust him off the spear: 'O men,' he cries, 'Orodes lies low, no slight arm of the
war.' His comrades shout after him the glad battle chant. And the dying man: 'Not unavenged
nor long, whoso thou art, shalt thou be glad in victory: thee too an equal fate marks down,
and in these fields thou shalt soon lie.' And smiling on him half wrathfully, Mezentius: 'Now
die thou. But of me let the father of gods and king of men take counsel.' So saying, he drew
the weapon out of his body. [745-780]Grim rest and iron slumber seal his eyes; his lids close
on everlasting night. Caedicus slays Alcathoüs, Sacrator Hydaspes, Rapo Parthenius and the
grim strength of Orses, Messapus Clonius and Erichaetes son of Lycaon, the one when his reinless
horse stumbling had flung him to the ground, the other as they met on foot. And Agis the Lycian
advanced only to be struck from horseback by Valerus, brave as his ancestry; and Thronius by
Salius, and Salius by Nealces with treacherous arrow-shot that stole from far.

Now the heavy hand of war dealt equal woe and counterchange of death; in even balance conquerors
and conquered slew and fell; nor one nor other knows of retreat. The gods in Jove's house pity
the vain rage of either and all the agonising of mortals. From one side Venus, from one opposite
Juno, daughter of Saturn, looks on; pale Tisiphone rages among the many thousand men. But now,
brandishing his huge spear, Mezentius strides glooming over the plain, vast as Orion when,
with planted foot, he cleaves his way through the vast pools of mid-ocean and his shoulder
overtops the waves, or carrying an ancient mountain-ash from the hilltops, paces the ground
and hides his head among the clouds: so moves Mezentius, huge in arms. Aeneas, espying him
in the deep columns, makes on to meet him. He remains, unterrified, awaiting his noble foe,
steady in his own bulk, and measures with his eye the fair range for a spear. 'This right hand's
divinity, and the weapon I poise and hurl, now be favourable! thee, Lausus, I vow for the live
trophy of Aeneas, dressed in the spoils stripped from the pirate's body.' He ends, and throws
the spear whistling from far; it flies on, glancing from the shield, and pierces illustrious
Antores hard by him sidelong in the flank; Antores, companion of Hercules, who, sent thither
from Argos, had stayed by Evander, and [781-814]settled in an Italian town. Hapless he goes
down with a wound not his own, and in death gazes on the sky, and Argos is sweet in his remembrance.
Then good Aeneas throws his spear; through the sheltering circle of threefold brass, through
the canvas lining and fabric of triple-sewn bull-hide it went, and sank deep in his groin;
yet carried not its strength home. Quickly Aeneas, joyful at the sight of the Tyrrhenian's
blood, snatches his sword from his thigh and presses hotly on his struggling enemy. Lausus
saw, and groaned deeply for love of his dear father, and tears rolled over his face. Here will
I not keep silence of thy hard death-doom and thine excellent deeds (if in any wise things
wrought in the old time may win belief), nor of thyself, O fitly remembered! He, helpless and
trammelled, withdrew backward, the deadly spear-shaft trailing from his shield. The youth broke
forward and plunged into the fight; and even as Aeneas' hand rose to bring down the blow, he
caught up his point and held him in delay. His comrades follow up with loud cries, so the father
may withdraw in shelter of his son's shield, while they shower their darts and bear back the
enemy with missiles from a distance. Aeneas wrathfully keeps covered. And as when storm-clouds
pour down in streaming hail, all the ploughmen and country-folk scatter off the fields, and
the wayfarer cowers safe in his fortress, a stream's bank or deep arch of rock, while the rain
falls, that they may do their day's labour when sunlight reappears; thus under the circling
storm of weapons Aeneas sustains the cloud of war till it thunders itself all away, and calls
on Lausus, on Lausus, with chiding and menace: 'Whither runnest thou on thy death, with daring
beyond thy strength? thine affection betrays thee into rashness.' But none the less he leaps
madly on; and now wrath rises higher and fiercer in the Dardanian captain, and the Fates pass
Lausus' last [815-849]threads through their hand; for Aeneas drives the sword strongly right
through him up all its length: the point pierced the light shield that armed his assailant,
and the tunic sewn by his mother with flexible gold: blood filled his breast, and the life
left the body and passed mourning through the air to the under world. But when Anchises' son
saw the look on the dying face, the face pale in wonderful wise, he sighed deeply in pity,
and reached forth his hand, as the likeness of his own filial affection flashed across his
soul. 'What now shall good Aeneas give thee, what, O poor boy, for this thy praise, for guerdon
of a nature so noble? Keep for thine own the armour thou didst delight in; and I restore thee,
if that matters aught at all, to the ghosts and ashes of thy parents. Yet thou shalt have this
sad comfort in thy piteous death, thou fallest by great Aeneas' hand.' Then, chiding his hesitating
comrades, he lifts him from the ground, dabbling the comely-ranged tresses with blood.

Meanwhile his father, by the wave of the Tiber river, stanched his wound with water, and rested
his body against a tree-trunk. Hard by his brazen helmet hangs from the boughs, and the heavy
armour lies quietly on the meadow. Chosen men stand round; he, sick and panting, leans his
neck and lets his beard spread down over his chest. Many a time he asks for Lausus, and sends
many an one to call him back and carry a parent's sad commands. But Lausus his weeping comrades
were bearing lifeless on his armour, mighty and mightily wounded to death. Afar the soul prophetic
of ill knew their lamentation: he soils his gray hairs plenteously with dust, and stretches
both hands on high, and clings on the dead. 'Was life's hold on me so sweet, O my son, that
I let him I bore receive the hostile stroke in my room? Am I, thy father, saved by these wounds
of thine, and living by thy death? Alas and woe! [850-885]now at last exile is bitter! now
the wound is driven deep! And I, even I, O my son, stained thy name with crime, driven in hatred
from the throne and sceptre of my fathers. I owed vengeance to my country and my people's resentment;
might mine own guilty life but have paid it by every form of death! Now I live, and leave not
yet man and day; but I will.' As he speaks thus he raises himself painfully on his thigh, and
though the violence of the deep wound cripples him, yet unbroken he bids his horse be brought,
his beauty, his comfort, that ever had carried him victorious out of war, and says these words
to the grieving beast: 'Rhoebus, we have lived long, if aught at all lasts long with mortals.
This day wilt thou either bring back in triumph the gory head and spoils of Aeneas, and we
will avenge Lausus' agonies; or if no force opens a way, thou wilt die with me: for I deem
not, bravest, thou wilt deign to bear an alien rule and a Teucrian lord.' He spoke, and took
his welcome seat on the back he knew, loading both hands with keen javelins, his head sheathed
in glittering brass and shaggy horse-hair plumes. Thus he galloped in. Through his heart sweep
together the vast tides of shame and mingling madness and grief. And with that he thrice loudly
calls Aeneas. Aeneas knew the call, and makes glad invocation: 'So the father of gods speed
me, so Apollo on high: do thou essay to close hand to hand. . . .' Thus much he utters, and
moves up to meet him with levelled spear. And he: 'Why seek to frighten me, fierce man, now
my son is gone? this was thy one road to my ruin. We shrink not from death, nor relent before
any of thy gods. Cease; for I come to my death, first carrying these gifts for thee.' He spoke,
and hurled a weapon at his enemy; then plants another and yet another as he darts round in
a wide circle; but they are stayed on the boss of gold. Thrice he rode wheeling close round
him by the [886-908]left, and sent his weapons strongly in; thrice the Trojan hero turns round,
taking the grim forest on his brazen guard. Then, weary of lingering in delay on delay, and
plucking out spear-head after spear-head, and hard pressed in the uneven match of battle, with
much counselling of spirit now at last he bursts forth, and sends his spear at the war-horse
between the hollows of the temples. The creature raises itself erect, beating the air with
its feet, throws its rider, and coming down after him in an entangled mass, slips its shoulder
as it tumbles forward. The cries of Trojans and Latins kindle the sky. Aeneas rushes up, drawing
his sword from the scabbard, and thus above him: 'Where now is gallant Mezentius and all his
fierce spirit?' Thereto the Tyrrhenian, as he came to himself and gazing up drank the air of
heaven: 'Bitter foe, why these taunts and menaces of death? Naught forbids my slaughter; neither
on such terms came I to battle, nor did my Lausus make treaty for this between me and thee.
This one thing I beseech thee, by whatsoever grace a vanquished enemy may claim: allow my body
sepulture. I know I am girt by the bitter hatred of my people. Stay, I implore, their fury,
and grant me and my son union in the tomb.' So speaks he, and takes the sword in his throat
unfalteringly, and the lifeblood spreads in a wave over his armour.

BOOK ELEVENTH

THE COUNCIL OF THE LATINS, AND THE LIFE AND DEATH OF CAMILLA

Meanwhile Dawn arose forth of Ocean. Aeneas, though the charge presses to give a space for
burial of his comrades, and his mind is in the tumult of death, began to pay the gods his vows
of victory with the breaking of the East. He plants on a mound a mighty oak with boughs lopped
away on every hand, and arrays it in the gleaming arms stripped from Mezentius the captain,
a trophy to thee, mighty Lord of War; he fixes on it the plumes dripping with blood, the broken
spears, and the corslet struck and pierced in twelve places; he ties the shield of brass on
his left hand, and hangs from his neck the ivory sword. Then among his joyous comrades (for
all the throng of his captains girt him close about) he begins in these words of cheer:

'The greatest deed is done, O men; be all fear gone for what remains. These are the spoils
of a haughty king, the first-fruits won from him; my hands have set Mezentius here. Now our
way lies to the walls of the Latin king. Prepare your arms in courage, and let your hopes anticipate
the war; let no ignorant delay hinder or tardy thoughts of fear keep us back, so soon as heaven
grant us to pluck up the standards and lead our army from the camp. [22-58]Meanwhile let us
commit to earth the unburied bodies of our comrades, since deep in Acheron this honour is left
alone. Go,' says he, 'grace with the last gifts those noble souls whose blood won us this land
for ours; and first let Pallas be sent to Evander's mourning city, he whose valour failed not
when the day of darkness took him, and the bitter wave of death.'

So speaks he weeping, and retraces his steps to the door, where aged Acoetes watched Pallas'
lifeless body laid out for burial; once armour-bearer to Evander in Parrhasia, but now gone
forth with darker omens, appointed attendant to his darling foster-child. Around is the whole
train of servants, with a crowd of Trojans, and the Ilian women with hair unbound in mourning
after their fashion. When Aeneas entered at the high doorway they beat their breasts and raise
a loud wail aloft, and the palace moans to their grievous lamentation. Himself, when he saw
the pillowed head and fair face of Pallas, and on his smooth breast the gaping wound of the
Ausonian spear-head, speaks thus with welling tears:

'Did Fortune in her joyous coming,' he cries, 'O luckless boy, grudge thee the sight of our
realm, and a triumphal entry to thy father's dwelling? Not this promise of thee had I given
to Evander thy sire at my departure, when he embraced me as I went and bade me speed to a wide
empire, and yet warned me in fear that the men were valiant, the people obstinate in battle.
And now he, fast ensnared by empty hope, perchance offers vows and heaps gifts on his altars;
we, a mourning train, go in hollow honour by his corpse, who now owes no more to aught in heaven.
Unhappy! thou wilt see thy son cruelly slain; is this our triumphal return awaited? is this
my strong assurance? Ah me, what a shield is lost, mine Iülus, to Ausonia and to thee!'

[59-96]This lament done, he bids raise the piteous body, and sends a thousand men chosen from
all his army for the last honour of escort, to mingle in the father's tears; a small comfort
in a great sorrow, yet the unhappy parent's due. Others quickly plait a soft wicker bier of
arbutus rods and oak shoots, and shadow the heaped pillows with a leafy covering. Here they
lay him, high on their rustic strewing; even as some tender violet or drooping hyacinth-blossom
plucked by a maiden's finger, whose sheen and whose grace is not yet departed, but no more
does Earth the mother feed it or lend it strength. Then Aeneas bore forth two purple garments
stiff with gold, that Sidonian Dido's own hands, happy over their work, had once wrought for
him, and shot the warp with delicate gold. One of these he sadly folds round him, a last honour,
and veils in its covering the tresses destined to the fire; and heaps up besides many a Laurentine
battle-prize, and bids his spoils pass forth in long train; with them the horses and arms whereof
he had stripped the enemy, and those, with hands tied behind their back, whom he would send
as nether offering to his ghost, and sprinkle the blood of their slaying on the flame. Also
he bids his captains carry stems dressed in the armour of the foe, and fix on them the hostile
names. Unhappy Acoetes is led along, outworn with age, he smites his breast and rends his face,
and flings himself forward all along the ground. Likewise they lead forth the chariot bathed
in Rutulian blood; behind goes weeping Aethon the war-horse, his trappings laid away, and big
drops wet his face. Others bear his spear and helmet, for all else is Turnus' prize. Then follow
in mourning array the Teucrians and all the Tyrrhenians, and the Arcadians with arms reversed.
When the whole long escorting file had taken its way, Aeneas stopped, and sighing deep, pursued
thus: 'Once again war's dreadful destiny calls us hence to other tears: [97-129]hail thou for
evermore, O princely Pallas, and for evermore farewell.' And without more words he bent his
way to the high walls and advanced towards his camp.

And now envoys were there from the Latin city with wreathed boughs of olive, praying him of
his grace to restore the dead that lay strewn by the sword over the plain, and let them go
to their earthy grave: no war lasts with men conquered and bereft of breath; let this indulgence
be given to men once called friends and fathers of their brides. To them Aeneas grants leave
in kind and courteous wise, spurning not their prayer, and goes on in these words: 'What spite
of fortune, O Latins, hath entangled you in the toils of war, and made you fly our friendship?
Plead you for peace to the lifeless bodies that the battle-lot hath slain? I would fain grant
it even to the living. Neither have I come but because destiny had given me this place to dwell
in; nor wage I war with your people; your king it is who hath broken our covenant and preferred
to trust himself to Turnus' arms. Fitter it were Turnus had faced death to-day. If he will
fight out the war and expel the Teucrians, it had been well to meet me here in arms; so had
he lived to whom life were granted of heaven or his own right hand. Now go, and kindle the
fire beneath your hapless countrymen.' Aeneas ended: they stood dumb in silence, with faces
bent steadfastly in mutual gaze. Then aged Drances, ever young Turnus' assailant in hatred
and accusation, with the words of his mouth thus answers him again:

'O Trojan, great in renown, yet greater in arms, with what praises may I extol thy divine goodness?
Shall thy righteousness first wake my wonder, or thy toils in war? We indeed will gratefully
carry these words to our fathers' city, and, if fortune grant a way, will make thee at one
with King Latinus. Let Turnus seek his own alliances. Nay, [130-163]it will be our delight
to rear the massy walls of destiny and stoop our shoulders under the stones of Troy.'

He ended thus, and all with one voice murmured assent. Twelve days' truce is struck, and in
mediation of the peace Teucrians and Latins stray mingling unharmed on the forest heights.
The tall ash echoes to the axe's strokes; they overturn pines that soar into the sky, and busily
cleave oaken logs and scented cedar with wedges, and drag mountain-ashes on their groaning waggons.

And now flying Rumour, harbinger of the heavy woe, fills Evander and Evander's house and city
with the same voice that but now told of Pallas victorious over Latium. The Arcadians stream
to the gates, snatching funeral torches after their ancient use; the road gleams with the long
line of flame, and parts the fields with a broad pathway of light; the arriving crowd of Phrygians
meets them and mingles in mourning array. When the matrons saw all the train approach their
dwellings they kindle the town with loud wailing. But no force may withhold Evander; he comes
amid them; the bier is set down; he flings himself on Pallas, and clasps him with tears and
sighs, and scarcely at last does grief leave his voice's utterance free. 'Other than this,
O Pallas! was thy promise to thy father, that thou wouldst not plunge recklessly into the fury
of battle. I knew well how strong was the fresh pride of arms and the sweetness of honour in
a first battle. Ah, unhappy first-fruits of his youth and bitter prelude of the war upon our
borders! ah, vows and prayers of mine that no god heard! and thou, pure crown of wifehood,
happy that thou art dead and not spared for this sorrow! But I have outgone my destiny in living,
to stay here the survivor of my child. Would I had followed the allied arms of Troy, to be
overwhelmed by Rutulian weapons! Would my life had been given, and I and not my Pallas were
borne home in this [164-198]procession! I would not blame you, O Teucrians, nor our treaty
and the friendly hands we clasped: our old age had that appointed debt to pay. Yet if untimely
death awaited my son, it will be good to think he fell leading the Teucrians into Latium, and
slew his Volscian thousands before he fell. Nay, no other funeral than this would I deem thy
due, my Pallas, than good Aeneas does, than the mighty Phrygians, than the Tyrrhene captains
and all the army of Tyrrhenia. Great are the trophies they bring on whom thine hand deals death;
thou also, Turnus, wert standing now a great trunk dressed in arms, had his age and his strength
of years equalled thine. But why, unhappy, do I delay the Trojan arms? Go, and forget not to
carry this message to your king: Thine hand it is that keeps me lingering in a life that is
hateful since Pallas fell, and Turnus is the debt thou seest son and father claim: for thy
virtue and thy fortune this scope alone is left. I ask not joy in life; I may not; but to carry
this to my son deep in the under world.'

Meanwhile Dawn had raised her gracious light on weary men, bringing back task and toil: now
lord Aeneas, how Tarchon, have built the pyres on the winding shore. Hither in ancestral fashion
hath each borne the bodies of his kin; the dark fire is lit beneath, and the vapour hides high
heaven in gloom. Thrice, girt in glittering arms, they have marched about the blazing piles,
thrice compassed on horseback the sad fire of death, and uttered their wail. Tears fall fast
upon earth and armour; cries of men and blare of trumpets roll skyward. Then some fling on
the fire Latin spoils stripped from the slain, helmets and shapely swords, bridles and glowing
chariot wheels; others familiar gifts, the very shields and luckless weapons of the dead. Around
are slain in sacrifice oxen many in number, and bristly swine and cattle gathered out of all
the country [199-234]are slaughtered over the flames. Then, crowding the shore, they gaze on
their burning comrades, and guard the embers of the pyres, and cannot tear themselves away
till dewy Night wheels on the star-spangled glittering sky.

Therewithal the unhappy Latins far apart build countless pyres and bury many bodies of men
in the ground; and many more they lift and bear away to the neighbouring country, or send them
back to the city; the rest, a vast heap of undistinguishable slaughter, they burn uncounted
and unhonoured; on all sides the broad fields gleam with crowded rivalry of fires. The third
Dawn had rolled away the chill shadow from the sky; mournfully they piled high the ashes and
mingled bones from the embers, and heaped a load of warm earth above them. Now in the dwellings
of rich Latinus' city the noise is loudest and most the long wail. Here mothers and their sons'
unhappy brides, here beloved sisters sad-hearted and orphaned boys curse the disastrous war
and Turnus' bridal, and bid him his own self arm and decide the issue with the sword, since
he claims for himself the first rank and the lordship of Italy. Drances fiercely embitters
their cry, and vouches that Turnus alone is called, alone is claimed for battle. Yet therewith
many a diverse-worded counsel is for Turnus, and the great name of the queen overshadows him,
and he rises high in renown of trophies fitly won.

Among their stir, and while confusion is fiercest, lo! to crown all, the envoys from great
Diomede's city bring their gloomy message: nothing is come of all the toil and labour spent;
gifts and gold and strong entreaties have been of no avail; Latium must seek other arms, or
sue for peace to the Trojan king. For heavy grief King Latinus himself swoons away. The wrath
of heaven and the fresh graves before his eyes warn him that Aeneas is borne on by fate's evident
will. So he sends imperial summons to [235-269]his high council, the foremost of his people,
and gathers them within his lofty courts. They assemble, and stream up the crowded streets
to the royal dwelling. Latinus, eldest in years and first in royalty, sits amid them with cheerless
brow, and bids the envoys sent back from the Aetolian city tell the news they bring, and demands
a full and ordered reply. Then tongues are hushed; and Venulus, obeying his word, thus begins
to speak:

'We have seen, O citizens, Diomede in his Argive camp, and outsped our way and passed all its
dangers, and touched the hand whereunder the land of Ilium fell. He was founding a town, named
Argyripa after his ancestral people, on the conquered fields of Iapygian Garganus. After we
entered in, and licence of open speech was given, we lay forth our gifts, we instruct him of
our name and country, who are its invaders, and why we are drawn to Arpi. He heard us, and
replied thus with face unstirred:

'"O fortunate races, realm of Saturn, Ausonians of old, how doth fortune vex your quiet and
woo you to tempt wars you know not? We that have drawn sword on the fields of Ilium--I forbear
to tell the drains of war beneath her high walls, the men sunken in yonder Simoïs--have all
over the world paid to the full our punishment and the reward of guilt, a crew Priam's self
might pity; as Minerva's baleful star knows, and the Euboïc reefs and Caphereus' revenge. From
that warfaring driven to alien shores, Menelaus son of Atreus is in exile far as Proteus' Pillars,
Ulysses hath seen the Cyclopes of Aetna. Shall I make mention of the realm of Neoptolemus,
and Idomeneus' household gods overthrown? or of the Locrians who dwell on the Libyan beach?
Even the lord of Mycenae, the mighty Achaeans' general, sank on his own threshold edge under
his accursed wife's hand, where the adulterer crouched over conquered Asia. Aye, or that the
gods grudged it me to return to [270-301]my ancestral altars, to see the bride of my desire,
and lovely Calydon! Now likewise sights of appalling presage pursue me; my comrades, lost to
me, have soared winging into the sky, and flit birds about the rivers--ah me, dread punishment
of my people!--and fill the cliffs with their melancholy cries. This it was I had to look for
even from the time when I madly assailed celestial limbs with steel, and sullied the hand of
Venus with a wound. Do not, ah, do not urge me to such battles. Neither have I any war with
Troy since her towers are overthrown, nor do I remember with delight the woes of old. Turn
to Aeneas with the gifts you bear to me from your ancestral borders. We have stood to face
his grim weapons, and met him hand to hand; believe one who hath proved it, how mightily he
rises over his shield, in what a whirlwind he hurls his spear. Had the land of Ida borne two
more like him, Dardanus had marched to attack the towns of Inachus, and Greece were mourning
fate's reverse. In all our delay before that obstinate Trojan city, it was Hector and Aeneas
whose hand stayed the Grecian victory and bore back its advance to the tenth year. Both were
splendid in courage, both eminent in arms; Aeneas was first in duty. Let your hands join in
treaty as they may; but beware that your weapons close not with his."

'Thou hast heard, most gracious king, at once what is the king's answer, and what his counsel
for our great struggle.'

Scarcely thus the envoys, when a diverse murmur ran through the troubled lips of the Ausonians;
even as, when rocks delay some running river, it plashes in the barred pool, and the banks
murmur nigh to the babbling wave. So soon as their minds were quieted, and their hurrying lips
hushed, the king, first calling on the gods, begins from his lofty throne:

[302-336]'Ere now could I wish, O Latins, we had determined our course of state, and it had
been better thus; not to meet in council at such a time as now, with the enemy seated before
our walls. We wage an ill-timed war, fellow-citizens, with a divine race, invincible, unbroken
in battle, who brook not even when conquered to drop the sword. If you had hope in appeal to
Aetolian arms, abandon it; though each man's hope is his own, you discern how narrow a path
it is. Beyond that you see with your eyes and handle with your hands the total ruin of our
fortunes. I blame no one; what valour's utmost could do is done; we have fought with our whole
kingdom's strength. Now I will unfold what I doubtfully advise and purpose, and with your attention
instruct you of it in brief. There is an ancient land of mine bordering the Tuscan river, stretching
far westward beyond the Sicanian borders. Auruncans and Rutulians sow on it, work the stiff
hills with the ploughshare, and pasture them where they are roughest. Let all this tract, with
a pine-clad belt of mountain height, pass to the Teucrians in friendship; let us name fair
terms of treaty, and invite them as allies to our realm; let them settle, if they desire it
so, and found a city. But if they have a mind to try other coasts and another people, and can
abide to leave our soil, let us build twice ten ships of Italian oak, or as many more as they
can man; timber lies at the water's edge for all; let them assign the number and fashion of
the vessels, and we will supply brass, labour, dockyards. Further, it is our will that an hundred
ambassadors of the highest rank in Latium shall go to bear our words and ratify the treaty,
holding forth in their hands the boughs of peace, and carrying for gifts weight of gold and
ivory, and the chair and striped robe, our royal array. Give counsel openly, and succour our
exhausted state.'

Then Drances again, he whose jealous ill-will was [337-370]wrought to anger and stung with
bitterness by Turnus' fame, lavish of wealth and quick of tongue though his hand was cold in
war, held no empty counsellor and potent in faction--his mother's rank ennobled a lineage whose
paternal source was obscure--rises, and with these words heaps and heightens their passion:

'Dark to no man and needing no voice of ours, O gracious king, is that whereon thou takest
counsel. All confess they know how our nation's fortune sways; but their words are choked.
Let him grant freedom of speech and abate his breath, he by whose disastrous government and
perverse way (I will speak out, though he menace me with arms and death) we see so many stars
of battle gone down and all our city sunk in mourning; while he, confident in flight, assails
the Trojan camp and makes heaven quail before his arms. Add yet one to those gifts of thine,
to all the riches thou bidst us send or promise to the Dardanians, most gracious of kings,
but one; let no man's passion overbear thee from giving thine own daughter to an illustrious
son and a worthy marriage, and binding this peace by perpetual treaty. Yet if we are thus terror-stricken
heart and soul, let us implore him in person, in person plead him of his grace to give way,
to restore king and country their proper right. Why again and again hurlest thou these unhappy
citizens on peril so evident, O source and spring of Latium's woes? In war is no safety; peace
we all implore of thee, O Turnus, and the one pledge that makes peace inviolable. I the first,
I whom thou picturest thine enemy, as I care not if I am, see, I bow at thy feet. Pity thine
allies; relent, and retire before thy conqueror. Enough have we seen of rout and death, and
desolation over our broad lands. Or if glory stir thee, if such strength kindle in thy breast,
and if a palace so delight thee for thy dower, be bold, and advance stout-hearted upon the
foe. We verily, that Turnus [371-406]may have his royal bride, must lie scattered on the plains,
worthless lives, a crowd unburied and unwept. Do thou also, if thou hast aught of might, if
the War-god be in thee as in thy fathers, look him in the face who challenges. . . .'

At these words Turnus' passion blazed out. He utters a groan, and breaks forth thus in deep
accents:

'Copious indeed, Drances, and fluent is ever thy speech at the moment war calls for action;
and when the fathers are summoned thou art there the first. But we need no words to fill our
senate-house, safely as thou wingest them while the mounded walls keep off the enemy, and the
trenches swim not yet with blood. Thunder on in rhetoric, thy wonted way: accuse thou me of
fear, Drances, since thine hand hath heaped so many Teucrians in slaughter, and thy glorious
trophies dot the fields. Trial is open of what live valour can do; nor indeed is our foe far
to seek; on all sides they surround our walls. Are we going to meet them? Why linger? Will
thy bravery ever be in that windy tongue and those timorous feet of thine? . . . My conqueror?
Shall any justly flout me as conquered, who sees Tiber swoln fuller with Ilian blood, and all
the house and people of Evander laid low, and the Arcadians stripped of their armour? Not such
did Bitias and huge Pandarus prove me, and the thousand men whom on one day my conquering hand
sent down to hell, shut as I was in their walls and closed in the enemy's ramparts. In war
is no safety. Fool! be thy boding on the Dardanian's head and thine own fortunes. Go on; cease
not to throw all into confusion with thy terrors, to exalt the strength of a twice vanquished
race, and abase the arms of Latinus before it. Now the princes of the Myrmidons tremble before
Phrygian arms, now Tydeus' son and Achilles of Larissa, and Aufidus river recoils from the
Adriatic wave. Or when the scheming villain [407-443]pretends to shrink at my abuse, and sharpens
calumny by terror! never shall this hand--keep quiet!--rob thee of such a soul; with thee let
it abide, and dwell in that breast of thine. Now I return to thee, my lord, and thy weighty
resolves. If thou dost repose no further hope in our arms, if all hath indeed left us, and
one repulse been our utter ruin, and our fortune is beyond recovery, let us plead for peace
and stretch forth unarmed hands. Yet ah! had we aught of our wonted manhood, his toil beyond
all other is blessed and his spirit eminent, who rather than see it thus, hath fallen prone
in death and once bitten the ground. But if we have yet resources and an army still unbroken,
and cities and peoples of Italy remain for our aid; but if even the Trojans have won their
glory at great cost of blood (they too have their deaths, and the storm fell equally on all),
why do we shamefully faint even on the threshold? Why does a shudder seize our limbs before
the trumpet sound? Often do the Days and the varying change of toiling Time restore prosperity;
often Fortune in broken visits makes man her sport and again establishes him. The Aetolian
of Arpi will not help us; but Messapus will, and Tolumnius the fortunate, and the captains
sent by many a nation; nor will fame be scant to follow the flower of Latium and the Laurentine
land. But if I only am claimed by the Teucrians for combat, if that is your pleasure, and I
am the barrier to the public good, Victory does not so hate and shun my hands that I should
renounce any enterprise for so great a hope. I shall meet him in courage, did he outmatch great
Achilles and wear arms like his forged by Vulcan's hands. To you and to my father Latinus I
Turnus, unexcelled in bravery by any of old, consecrate my life. Aeneas calls on him alone:
let him, I implore: let not Drances rather appease with his [444-480]life this wrath of heaven,
if such it be, or win the renown of valour.'

Thus they one with another strove together in uncertainty; Aeneas moved from his camp to battle.
Lo, a messenger rushes spreading confusion through the royal house, and fills the town with
great alarms: the Teucrians, ranged in battle-line with the Tyrrhene forces, are marching down
by the Tiber river and filling the plain. Immediately spirits are stirred and hearts shaken
and wrath roused in fierce excitement among the crowd. Hurrying hands grasp at arms; for arms
their young men clamour; the fathers shed tears and mutter gloomily. With that a great noise
rises aloft in diverse contention, even as when flocks of birds haply settle on a lofty grove,
or swans utter their hoarse cry among the vocal pools on the fish-filled river of Padusa. 'Yes,
citizens!' cries Turnus, seizing his time: 'gather in council and sit praising peace, while
they rush on dominion in arms!' Without more words he sprung up and issued swiftly from the
high halls. 'Thou, Volusus,' he cries, 'bid the Volscian battalions arm, and lead out the Rutulians.
Messapus, and Coras with thy brother, spread your armed cavalry widely over the plain. Let
a division entrench the city gates and man the towers: the rest of our array attack with me
where I command.' The whole town goes rushing to the walls; lord Latinus himself, dismayed
by the woeful emergency, quits the council and puts off his high designs, and chides himself
sorely for not having given Aeneas unasked welcome, and made him son and bulwark of the city.
Some entrench the gates, or bring up supply of stones and poles. The hoarse clarion utters
the ensanguined note of war. A motley ring of boys and matrons girdle the walls. Therewithal
the queen with a crowd of mothers ascends bearing gifts to Pallas' towered temple, and by her
side goes maiden Lavinia, source of all that woe, [481-514]her beautiful eyes cast down. The
mothers enter in, and while the temple steams with their incense, pour from the high doorway
their mournful cry: 'Maiden armipotent, Tritonian, sovereign of war, break with thine hand
the spear of the Phrygian plunderer, hurl him prone to earth and dash him down beneath our
lofty gates.' Turnus arrays himself in hot haste for battle, and even now hath done on his
sparkling breastplate with its flickering scales of brass, and clasped his golden greaves,
his brows yet bare and his sword buckled to his side; he runs down from the fortress height
glittering in gold, and exultantly anticipates the foe. Thus when a horse snaps his tether,
and, free at last, rushes from the stalls and gains the open plain, he either darts towards
the pastures of the herded mares, or bathing, as is his wont, in the familiar river waters,
dashes out and neighs with neck stretched high, glorying, and his mane tosses over collar and
shoulder. Camilla with her Volscian array meets him face to face in the gateway; the princess
leaps from her horse, and all her squadron at her example slide from horseback to the ground.
Then she speaks thus:

'Turnus, if bravery hath any just self-confidence, I dare and promise to engage Aeneas' cavalry,
and advance to meet the Tyrrhene horse. Permit my hand to try war's first perils: do thou on
foot keep by the walls and guard the city.'

To this Turnus, with eyes fixed on the terrible maiden: 'O maiden flower of Italy, how may
I essay to express, how to prove my gratitude? But now, since that spirit of thine excels all
praise, share thou the toil with me. Aeneas, as the report of the scouts I sent assures, hath
sent on his light-armed horse to annoy us and scour the plains; himself he marches on the city
across the lonely ridge of the mountain steep. I am arranging a stratagem of [515-550]war in
his pathway on the wooded slope, to block a gorge on the highroad with armed troops. Do thou
receive and join battle with the Tyrrhene cavalry; with thee shall be gallant Messapus, the
Latin squadrons, and Tiburtus' division: do thou likewise assume a captain's charge.'

So speaks he, and with like words heartens Messapus and the allied captains to battle, and
advances towards the enemy. There is a sweeping curve of glen, made for ambushes and devices
of arms. Dark thick foliage hems it in on either hand, and into it a bare footpath leads by
a narrow gorge and difficult entrance. Right above it on the watch-towers of the hill-top lies
an unexpected level, hidden away in shelter, whether one would charge from right and left or
stand on the ridge and roll down heavy stones. Hither he passes by a line of way he knew, and,
seizing his ground, occupies the treacherous woods.

Meanwhile in the heavenly dwellings Latona's daughter addressed fleet Opis, one of her maiden
fellowship and sacred band, and sadly uttered these accents: 'Camilla moves to fierce war,
O maiden, and vainly girds on our arms, dear as she is beyond others to me. For her love of
Diana is not newly born, nor her spirit stirred by sudden affection. Driven from his kingdom
through jealousy of his haughty power, Metabus left ancient Privernum town, and bore his infant
with him in his flight through war and battle, the companion of his exile, and called her by
her mother Casmilla's name, with a little change, Camilla. Carrying her before him on his breast,
he sought a long ridge of lonely woodland; on all sides angry weapons pressed on him, and Volscian
soldiery spread hurrying round about. Lo, in mid flight swoln Amasenus ran foaming with banks
abrim, so heavily had the clouds burst in rain. He would swim it; but love of the infant holds
him back in alarm for so dear a burden. Inly revolving [551-586]all, he settled reluctantly
on a sudden resolve: the great spear that the warrior haply carried in his stout hand, of hard-knotted
and seasoned oak, to it he ties his daughter swathed in cork-tree bark of the woodland, and
binds her balanced round the middle of the spear; poising it in his great right hand he thus
cries aloft: "Gracious one, haunter of the woodland, maiden daughter of Latona, a father devotes
this babe to thy service; thine is this weapon she holds, thine infant suppliant, flying through
the air from her enemies. Accept her, I implore, O goddess, for thine own, whom now I entrust
to the chance of air." He spoke, and drawing back his arm, darts the spinning spear-shaft:
the waters roar: over the racing river poor Camilla shoots on the whistling weapon. But Metabus,
as a strong band now presses nigher, plunges into the river, and triumphantly pulls spear and
girl, his gift to Trivia, from the grassy turf. No cities ever received him within house or
rampart, nor had his savagery submitted to it; he led his life on the lonely pastoral hills.
Here he nursed his daughter in the underwood among tangled coverts, on the milk of a wild brood-mare's
teats, squeezing the udder into her tender lips. And so soon as the baby stood and went straight
on her feet, he armed her hands with a sharp javelin, and hung quiver and bow from her little
shoulders. Instead of gold to clasp her tresses, instead of the long skirted gown, a tiger's
spoils hang down her back. Even then her tender hand hurled childish darts, and whirled about
her head the twisted thong of her sling, and struck down the crane from Strymon or the milk-white
swan. Many a mother among Tyrrhenian towns destined her for their sons in vain; content with
Diana alone, she keeps unsoiled for ever the love of her darts and maidenhood. Would she had
not plunged thus into warfare and provoked the Trojans by attack! so were she now dear to me
and one of my [587-620]company. But since bitter doom is upon her, up, glide from heaven, O
Nymph, and seek the Latin borders, where under evil omen they join in baleful battle. Take
these, and draw from the quiver an avenging shaft; by it shall he pay me forfeit of his blood,
whoso, Trojan or Italian alike, shall sully her sacred body with a wound. Thereafter will I
in a sheltering cloud bear body and armour of the hapless girl unspoiled to the tomb, and lay
them in her native land.' She spoke; but the other sped lightly down the aery sky, girt about
with dark whirlwind on her echoing way.

But meanwhile the Trojan force nears the walls, with the Etruscan captains and their whole
cavalry arrayed in ordered squadrons. Their horses' trampling hoofs thunder on all the field,
as, swerving this way and that, they chafe at the reins' pressure; the iron field bristles
wide with spears, and the plain is aflame with uplifted arms. Likewise Messapus and the Latin
horse, and Coras and his brother, and maiden Camilla's squadron, come forth against them on
the plain, and draw back their hands and level the flickering points of their long lances,
in a fire of neighing horses and advancing men. And now each had drawn within javelin-cast
of each, and drew up; with a sudden shout they dart forth, and urge on their furious horses;
from all sides at once weapons shower thick like snow, and veil the sky with their shadow.
In a moment Tyrrhenus and fiery Aconteus charge violently with crossing spears, and are the
first to fall; they go down with a heavy crash, and their beasts break and shatter chest upon
chest. Aconteus, hurled off like a thunderbolt or some mass slung from an engine, is dashed
away, and scatters his life in air. Immediately the lines waver, and the Latins wheeling about
throw their shields behind them and turn their horses towards the town. The Trojans pursue;
Asilas heads and leads on [621-653]their squadrons. And now they drew nigh the gates, and again
the Latins raise a shout and wheel their supple necks about; the pursuers fly, and gallop right
back with loosened rein: as when the sea, running up in ebb and flow, now rushes shoreward
and strikes over the cliffs in a wave of foam, drenching the edge of the sand in its curving
sweep; now runs swirling back, and the surge sucks the rolling stones away. Twice the Tuscans
turn and drive the Rutulians towards the town; twice they are repelled, and look back behind
them from cover of their shields. But when now meeting in a third encounter, the lines are
locked together all their length, and man singles out his man; then indeed, amid groans of
the dying, deep in blood roll armour and bodies, and horses half slain mixed up with slaughtered
men. The battle swells fierce. Orsilochus hurled his spear at the horse of Remulus, whom himself
he shrank to meet, and left the steel in it under the ear; at the stroke the charger rears
madly, and, mastered by the wound, lifts his chest and flings up his legs: the rider is thrown
and rolls over on the ground. Catillus strikes down Iollas, and Herminius mighty in courage,
mighty in limbs and arms, bareheaded, tawny-haired, bare-shouldered; undismayed by wounds,
he leaves his vast body open against arms. Through his broad shoulders the quivering spear
runs piercing him through, and doubles him up with pain. Everywhere the dark blood flows; they
deal death with the sword in battle, and seek a noble death by wounds.

But amid the slaughter Camilla rages, a quivered Amazon, with one side stripped for battle,
and now sends tough javelins showering from her hand, now snatches the strong battle-axe in
her unwearying grasp; the golden bow, the armour of Diana, clashes on her shoulders; and even
when forced backward in retreat, she turns in flight and [654-691]aims darts from her bow.
But around her are her chosen comrades, maiden Larina, Tulla, Tarpeia brandishing an axe inlaid
with bronze, girls of Italy, whom Camilla the bright chose for her own escort, good at service
in peace and war: even as Thracian Amazons when the streams of Thermodon clash beneath them
as they go to war in painted arms, whether around Hippolyte, or while martial Penthesilea returns
in her chariot, and the crescent-shielded columns of women dance with loud confused cry. Whom
first, whom last, fierce maiden, does thy dart strike down? First Euneus, son of Clytius; for
as he meets her the long fir shaft crashes through his open breast. He falls spouting streams
of blood, and bites the gory ground, and dying writhes himself upon his wound. Then Liris and
Pagasus above him; who fall headlong and together, the one thrown as he reins up his horse
stabbed under him, the other while he runs forward and stretches his unarmed hand to stay his
fall. To these she joins Amastrus, son of Hippotas, and follows from far with her spear Tereus
and Harpalycus and Demophoön and Chromis: and as many darts as the maiden sends whirling from
her hand, so many Phrygians fall. Ornytus the hunter rides near in strange arms on his Iapygian
horse, his broad warrior's shoulders swathed in the hide stripped from a bullock, his head
covered by a wolf's wide-grinning mouth and white-tusked jaws; a rustic pike arms his hand;
himself he moves amid the squadrons a full head over all. Catching him up (for that was easy
amid the rout), she runs him through, and thus cries above her enemy: 'Thou wert hunting wild
beasts in the forest, thoughtest thou, Tyrrhenian? the day is come for a woman's arms to refute
thy words. Yet no light fame shalt thou carry to thy fathers' ghosts, to have fallen under
the weapon of Camilla.' Next Orsilochus and Butes, the two mightiest of mould among the Teucrians;
Butes she pierces in the [692-725]back with her spear-point between corslet and helmet, where
the neck shews as he sits, and the shield hangs from his left shoulder; Orsilochus she flies,
and darting in a wide circle, slips into the inner ring and pursues her pursuer; then rising
her full height, she drives the strong axe deep through armour and bone, as he pleads and makes
much entreaty; warm brain from the wound splashes his face. One met her thus and hung startled
by the sudden sight, the warrior son of Aunus haunter of the Apennine, not the meanest in Liguria
while fate allowed him to deceive. And he, when he discerns that no fleetness of foot may now
save him from battle or turn the princess from pursuit, essays to wind a subtle device of treachery,
and thus begins: 'How hast thou glory, if a woman trust in her horse's strength? Debar retreat;
trust thyself to level ground at close quarters with me, and prepare to fight on foot. Soon
wilt thou know how windy boasting brings one to harm.' He spoke; but she, furious and stung
with fiery indignation, hands her horse to an attendant, and takes her stand in equal arms
on foot and undismayed, with naked sword and shield unemblazoned. But he, thinking his craft
had won the day, himself flies off on the instant, and turning his rein, darts off in flight,
pricking his beast to speed with iron-armed heel. 'False Ligurian, in vain elated in thy pride!
for naught hast thou attempted thy slippery native arts, nor will thy craft bring thee home
unhurt to treacherous Aunus.' So speaks the maiden, and with running feet swift as fire crosses
his horse, and catching the bridle, meets him in front and takes her vengeance in her enemy's
blood: as lightly as the falcon, bird of bale, swoops down from aloft on a pigeon high in a
cloud, and pounces on and holds her, and disembowels her with taloned feet, while blood and
torn feathers flutter down the sky.

But the creator of men and gods sits high on Olympus' [726-759]summit watching this, not with
eyes unseeing: he kindles Tyrrhenian Tarchon to the fierce battle, and sharply goads him on
to wrath. So Tarchon gallops amid the slaughter where his squadrons retreat, and urges his
troops in changing tones, calling man on man by name, and rallies the fliers to fight. 'What
terror, what utter cowardice hath fallen on your spirits, O never to be stung to shame, O slack
alway? a woman drives you in disorder and routs our ranks! Why wear we steel? for what are
these idle weapons in our hands? Yet not slack in Venus' service and wars by night, or, when
the curving flute proclaims Bacchus' revels, to look forward to the feast and the cups on the
loaded board (this your passion, this your desire!) till the soothsayer pronounce the offering
favourable, and the fatted victim invite you to the deep groves.' So speaking, he spurs his
horse into the midmost, ready himself to die, and bears violently down full on Venulus; and
tearing him from horseback, grasps his enemy and carries him away with him on the saddle-bow
by main force. A cry rises up, and all the Latins turn their eyes. Tarchon flies like fire
over the plain, carrying the armed man, and breaks off the steel head from his own spear and
searches the uncovered places, trying where he may deal the mortal blow; the other struggling
against him keeps his hand off his throat, and strongly parries his attack. And, as when a
golden eagle snatches and soars with a serpent in his clutch, and his feet are fast in it,
and his talons cling; but the wounded snake writhes in coiling spires, and its scales rise
and roughen, and its mouth hisses as it towers upward; the bird none the less attacks his struggling
prize with crooked beak, while his vans beat the air: even so Tarchon carries Tiburtus out
of the ranks, triumphant in his prize. Following their captain's example and issue the men
of Maeonia charge in. Then Arruns, due to his [760-796]doom, circles in advance of fleet Camilla
with artful javelin, and tries how fortune may be easiest. Where the maiden darts furious amid
the ranks, there Arruns slips up and silently tracks her footsteps; where she returns victorious
and retires from amid the enemy, there he stealthily bends his rapid reins. Here he approaches,
and here again he approaches, and strays all round and about, and untiringly shakes his certain
spear. Haply Chloreus, sacred to Cybele and once her priest, glittered afar, splendid in Phrygian
armour; a skin feathered with brazen scales and clasped with gold clothed the horse that foamed
under his spur; himself he shone in foreign blue and scarlet, with fleet Gortynian shafts and
a Lycian horn; a golden bow was on his shoulder, and the soothsayer's helmet was of gold; red
gold knotted up his yellow scarf with its rustling lawny folds; his tunics and barbarian trousers
were wrought in needlework. Him, whether that she might nail armour of Troy on her temples,
or herself move in captive gold, the maiden pursued in blind chase alone of all the battle
conflict, and down the whole line, reckless and fired by a woman's passion for spoils and plunder:
when at last out of his ambush Arruns chooses his time and darts his javelin, praying thus
aloud to heaven: 'Apollo, most high of gods, holy Soracte's warder, to whom we beyond all do
worship, for whom the blaze of the pinewood heap is fed, where we thy worshippers in pious
faith print our steps amid the deep embers of the fire, grant, O Lord omnipotent, that our
arms wipe off this disgrace. I seek not the dress the maiden wore, nor trophy or any spoil
of victory; other deeds shall bring me praise; let but this dread scourge fall stricken beneath
my wound, I will return inglorious to my native towns.' Phoebus heard, and inly granted half
his vow to prosper, half he shred into the flying breezes. To surprise and strike down Camilla
in sudden death, this he [797-831]yielded to his prayer; that his high home might see his return
he gave not, and a gust swept off his accents on the gale. So, when the spear sped from his
hand hurtled through the air, all the Volscians marked it well and turned their eyes on the
queen; and she alone knew not wind or sound of the weapon on its aery path, till the spear
passed home and sank where her breast met it, and, driven deep, drank her maiden blood. Her
companions run hastily up and catch their sinking mistress. Arruns takes to flight more alarmed
than all, in mingled fear and exultation, and no longer dares to trust his spear or face the
maiden's weapons. And as the wolf, some shepherd or great bullock slain, plunges at once among
the trackless mountain heights ere hostile darts are in pursuit, and knows how reckless he
hath been, and drooping his tail lays it quivering under his belly, and seeks the woods; even
so does Arruns withdraw from sight in dismay, and, satisfied to escape, mingles in the throng
of arms. The dying woman pulls at the weapon with her hand; but the iron head is fixed deep
in the wound up between the rib-bones. She swoons away with loss of blood; chilling in death
her eyes swoon away; the once lustrous colour leaves her face. Then gasping, she thus accosts
Acca, one of her birthmates, who alone before all was true to Camilla, with whom her cares
were divided; and even so she speaks: 'Thus far, Acca my sister, have I availed; now the bitter
wound overmasters me, and all about me darkens in haze. Haste away, and carry to Turnus my
last message; to take my place in battle, and repel the Trojans from the town. And now goodbye.'
Even with the words she dropped the reins and slid to ground unconscious. Then the unnerving
chill overspread her, her neck slackened, her head sank overpowered by death, and her arms
fell, and with a moan the life fled indignant into the dark. Then indeed an [832-867]infinite
cry rises and smites the golden stars; the battle grows bloodier now Camilla is down; at once
in serried rants all the Teucrian forces pour in, with the Tyrrhene captains and Evander's
Arcadian squadrons.

But Opis, Trivia's sentinel, long ere now sits high on the hill-tops, gazing on the battle
undismayed. And when afar amid the din of angry men she espied Camilla done woefully to death,
she sighed and uttered forth a deep cry: 'Ah too, too cruel, O maiden, the forfeit thou hast
paid for daring armed attack on the Teucrians! and nothing hath availed thee thy lonely following
of Diana in the woodlands, nor wearing our quiver on thy shoulder. Yet thy Queen hath not left
thee unhonoured now thy latter end is come; nor will this thy death be unnamed among the nations,
nor shalt thou bear the fame of one unavenged; for whosoever hath sullied thy body with a wound
shall pay death for due.' Under the mountain height was a great earthen mound, tomb of Dercennus,
a Laurentine king of old, shrouded in shadowy ilex. Hither the goddess most beautiful first
swoops down, and marks Arruns from the mounded height. As she saw him glittering in arms and
idly exultant: 'Why,' she cries, 'wanderest thou away? hitherward direct thy steps; come hither
to thy doom, to receive thy fit reward for Camilla. Shalt thou die, and by Diana's weapons?'
The Thracian spoke, and slid out a fleet arrow from her gilded quiver, and stretched it level
on the bow, and drew it far, till the curving tips met one another, and now her hands touched
in counterpoise, the left the steel edge, the string in the right her breast. At once and in
a moment Arruns heard the whistle of the dart and the resounding air, as the steel sank in
his body. His comrades leave him forgotten on the unknown dust of the plain, moaning his last
and gasping his life away; Opis wings her flight to the skyey heaven.

[868-901]At once the light squadron of Camilla retreat now they have lost their mistress; the
Rutulians retreat in confusion, brave Atinas retreats. Scattered captains and thinned companies
make for safety, and turn their horses backward to the town. Nor does any avail to make stand
against the swarming death-dealing Teucrians, or bear their shock in arms; but their unstrung
bows droop on their shoulders, and the four-footed galloping horse-hoof shakes the crumbling
plain. The eddying dust rolls up thick and black towards the walls, and on the watch-towers
mothers beat their breasts and the cries of women rise up to heaven. On such as first in the
rout broke in at the open gates the mingling hostile throng follows hard; nor do they escape
death, alas! but in the very gateway, within their native city and amid their sheltering homes,
they are pierced through and gasp out their life. Some shut the gates, and dare not open to
their pleading comrades nor receive them in the town; and a most pitiful slaughter begins between
armed men who guard the entry and others who rush upon their arms. Barred out before their
weeping parents' eyes and faces, some, swept on by the rout, roll headlong into the trenches;
some, blindly rushing with loosened rein, batter at the gates and stiffly-bolted doorway. The
very mothers from the walls in eager heat (true love of country points the way, when they see
Camilla) dart weapons with shaking hand, and eagerly make hard stocks of wood and fire-hardened
poles serve for steel, and burn to die among the foremost for their city's sake.

Meanwhile among the forests the terrible news pours in on Turnus, and Acca brings him news
of the mighty invasion; the Volscian lines are destroyed; Camilla is fallen; the enemy thicken
and press on, and have swept all before them down the tide of battle. Raging he leaves the
hills he had beset--Jove's stern will ordains it [902-915]so--and quits the rough woodland.
Scarcely had he marched out of sight and gained the plain when lord Aeneas enters the open
defiles, surmounts the ridge, and issues from the dim forest. So both advance swiftly to the
town with all their columns, no long march apart, and at once Aeneas descried afar the plains
all smoking with dust, and saw the Laurentine columns, and Turnus knew Aeneas terrible in arms,
and heard the advancing feet and the neighing of the horses. And straightway would they join
battle and essay the conflict, but that ruddy Phoebus even now dips his weary coursers in the
Iberian flood, and night draws on over the fading day. They encamp before the city, and draw
their trenches round the walls.

BOOK TWELFTH

THE SLAYING OF TURNUS

When Turnus sees the Latins broken and fainting in the thwart issue of war, his promise claimed
for fulfilment, and men's eyes pointed on him, his own spirit rises in unappeasable flame.
As the lion in Phoenician fields, his breast heavily wounded by the huntsmen, at last starts
into arms, and shakes out the shaggy masses from his exultant neck, and undismayed snaps the
brigand's planted weapon, roaring with blood-stained mouth; even so Turnus kindles and swells
in passion. Then he thus addresses the king, and so furiously begins:

'Turnus stops not the way; there is no excuse for the coward Aeneadae to take back their words
or renounce their compact. I join battle; bring the holy things, my lord, and swear the treaty.
Either this hand shall hurl to hell the Dardanian who skulks from Asia, and the Latins sit
and see my single sword wipe out the nation's reproach; or let him rule his conquest, and Lavinia
pass to his espousal.'

To him Latinus calmly replied: 'O excellent young man! the more thy hot valour abounds, the
more intently must I counsel, and weigh fearfully what may befall. Thou hast thy father Daunus'
realm, hast many towns taken by [23-55]thine hand, nor is Latinus lacking in gold and goodwill.
There are other maidens unwedded in Latium and Laurentine fields, and of no mean birth. Let
me unfold this hard saying in all sincerity: and do thou drink it into thy soul. I might not
ally my daughter to any of her old wooers; such was the universal oracle of gods and men. Overborne
by love for thee, overborne by kinship of blood and my weeping wife's complaint, I broke all
fetters, I severed the maiden from her promised husband, I took up unrighteous arms. Since
then, Turnus, thou seest what calamities, what wars pursue me, what woes thyself before all
dost suffer. Twice vanquished in pitched battle, we scarce guard in our city walls the hopes
of Italy: the streams of Tiber yet run warm with our blood, and our bones whiten the boundless
plain. Why fall I away again and again? what madness bends my purpose? if I am ready to take
them into alliance after Turnus' destruction, why do I not rather bar the strife while he lives?
What will thy Rutulian kinsmen, will all Italy say, if thy death--Fortune make void the word!--comes
by my betrayal, while thou suest for our daughter in marriage? Cast a glance on war's changing
fortune; pity thine aged father, who now far away sits sad in his native Ardea.'

In nowise do the words bend Turnus' passion: he rages the more fiercely, and sickens of the
cure. So soon as he found speech he thus made utterance:

'The care thou hast for me, most gracious lord, for me lay down, I implore thee, and let me
purchase honour with death. Our hand too rains weapons, our steel is strong; and our wounds
too draw blood. The goddess his mother will be far from him to cover his flight, woman-like,
in a cloud and an empty phantom's hiding.'

But the queen, dismayed by the new terms of battle, wept, and clung to her fiery son as one
ready to die: [56-89]'Turnus, by these tears, by Amata's regard, if that touches thee at all--thou
art now the one hope, the repose of mine unhappy age; in thine hand is Latinus' honour and
empire, on thee is the weight of all our sinking house--one thing I beseech thee; forbear to
join battle with the Teucrians. What fate soever awaits thee in the strife thou seekest, it
awaits me, Turnus, too: with thee will I leave the hateful light, nor shall my captive eyes
see Aeneas my daughter's lord.' Lavinia tearfully heard her mother's words with cheeks all
aflame, as deep blushes set her face on fire and ran hotly over it. Even as Indian ivory, if
one stain it with sanguine dye, or where white lilies are red with many a rose amid: such colour
came on the maiden's face. Love throws him into tumult, and stays his countenance on the girl:
he burns fiercer for arms, and briefly answers Amata:

'Do not, I pray thee, do not weep for me, neither pursue me thus ominously as I go to the stern
shock of war. Turnus is not free to dally with death. Thou, Idmon, bear my message to the Phrygian
monarch in this harsh wording: So soon as to-morrow's Dawn rises in the sky blushing on her
crimson wheels, let him not loose Teucrian or Rutulian: let Teucrian and Rutulian arms have
rest, and our blood decide the war; on that field let Lavinia be sought in marriage.'

These words uttered, withdrawing swiftly homeward, he orders out his horses, and rejoicingly
beholds them snorting before his face: those that Orithyia's self gave to grace Pilumnus, such
as would excel the snows in whiteness and the gales in speed. The eager charioteers stand round
and pat their chests with clapping hollowed hands, and comb their tressed manes. Himself next
he girds on his shoulders the corslet stiff with gold and pale mountain-bronze, and buckles
on the sword and shield and scarlet-plumed [90-124]helmet-spikes: that sword the divine Lord
of Fire had himself forged for his father Daunus and dipped glowing in the Stygian wave. Next,
where it stood amid his dwelling leaning on a massy pillar, he strongly seizes his stout spear,
the spoil of Actor the Auruncan, and brandishes it quivering, and cries aloud: 'Now, O spear
that never hast failed at my call, now the time is come; thee princely Actor once, thee Turnus
now wields in his grasp. Grant this strong hand to strike down the effeminate Phrygian, to
rend and shatter the corslet, and defile in dust the locks curled with hot iron and wet with
myrrh.' Thus madly he runs on: sparkles leap out from all his blazing face, and his keen eyes
flash fire: even as the bull when before his first fight he bellows awfully, and drives against
a tree's trunk to make trial of his angry horns, and buffets the air with blows or scatters
the sand in prelude of battle.

And therewithal Aeneas, terrible in his mother's armour, kindles for warfare and awakes into
wrath, rejoicing that offer of treaty stays the war. Comforting his comrades and sorrowing
Iülus' fear, he instructs them of destiny, and bids bear answer of assurance to King Latinus,
and name the laws of peace.

Scarcely did the morrow shed on the mountain-tops the beams of risen day, as the horses of
the sun begin to rise from the deep flood and breathe light from their lifted nostrils; Rutulian
and Teucrian men measured out and made ready a field of battle under the great city's ramparts,
and midway in it hearth-fires and grassy altars to the gods of both peoples; while others bore
spring water and fire, draped in priestly dress and their brows bound with grass of the field.
The Ausonian army issue forth, and crowd through the gates in streaming serried columns. On
this side all the Trojan and Tyrrhenian host pour in diverse armament, girt with iron even
as though the harsh battle-strife [125-158]called them forth. Therewith amid their thousands
the captains dart up and down, splendid in gold and purple, Mnestheus, seed of Assaracus, and
brave Asilas, and Messapus, tamer of horses, brood of Neptune: then each on signal given retired
to his own ground; they plant their spears in the earth and lean their shields against them.
Mothers in eager abandonment, and the unarmed crowd and feeble elders beset towers and house-roofs,
or stand at the lofty gates.

But Juno, on the summit that is now called the Alban--then the mountain had neither name nor
fame or honour--looked forth from the hill and surveyed the plain and double lines of Laurentine
and Trojan, and Latinus' town. Straightway spoke she thus to Turnus' sister, goddess to goddess,
lady of pools and noisy rivers: such worship did Jupiter the high king of air consecrate to
her for her stolen virginity:

'Nymph, grace of rivers, best beloved of our soul, thou knowest how out of all the Latin women
that ever rose to high-hearted Jove's thankless bed, thee only have I preferred and gladly
given part and place in heaven. Learn thy woe, that thou blame not me for it, Juturna. Where
fortune seemed to allow and the Destinies granted Latinus' estate to prosper, I shielded Turnus
and thy city. Now I see him joining battle with unequal fates, and the day of doom and deadly
force draws nigh. Mine eyes cannot look on this battle and treaty: thou, if thou darest aught
of more present help for the brother of thy blood, go on; it befits thee. Haply relief shall
follow misery.'

Scarcely thus: when Juturna's eyes overbrimmed with tears, and thrice and again she smote her
hand on her gracious breast. 'This is not time for tears,' cries Juno, daughter of Saturn:
'hasten and snatch thy brother, if it may be, from his death; or do thou waken war, and make
[159-191]the treaty abortive. I encourage thee to dare.' With such urgence she left her, doubting
and dismayed, and grievously wounded in soul.

Meanwhile the kings go forth; Latinus in mighty pomp rides in his four-horse chariot; twelve
gilded rays go glittering round his brows, symbol of the Sun his ancestor; Turnus moves behind
a white pair, clenching in his hand two broad-headed spears. On this side lord Aeneas, fount
of the Roman race, ablaze in starlike shield and celestial arms, and close by Ascanius, second
hope of mighty Rome, issue from the camp; and the priest, in spotless raiment, hath brought
the young of a bristly sow and an unshorn sheep of two years old, and set his beasts by the
blazing altars. They, turning their eyes towards the sunrising, scatter salted corn from their
hands and clip the beasts with steel over the temples, and pour cups on the altars. Then Aeneas
the good, with sword drawn, thus makes invocation:

'Be the Sun now witness, and this Earth to my call, for whose sake I have borne to suffer so
sore travail, and the Lord omnipotent, and thou his wife, at last, divine daughter of Saturn,
at last I pray more favourable; and thou, mighty Mavors, who wieldest all warfare in lordship
beneath thy sway; and on the Springs and Rivers I call, and the Dread of high heaven, and the
divinities of the blue seas: if haply victory fall to Turnus the Ausonian, the vanquished make
covenant to withdraw to Evander's city; Iülus shall quit the soil; nor ever hereafter shall
the Aeneadae return in arms to renew warfare, or attack this realm with the sword. But if Victory
grant battle to us and ours (as I think the rather, and so the rather may the gods seal their
will), I will not bid Italy obey my Teucrians, nor do I claim the realm for mine; let both
nations, unconquered, join treaty for ever under equal law. Gods [192-225]and worship shall
be of my giving: my father Latinus shall bear the sword, and have a father's prescribed command.
For me my Teucrians shall establish a city, and Lavinia give the town her name.'

Thus Aeneas first: thereon Latinus thus follows:

'By these same I swear, O Aeneas, by Earth, Sea, Sky, and the twin brood of Latona and Janus
the double-facing, and the might of nether gods and grim Pluto's shrine; this let our Father
hear, who seals treaties with his thunderbolt. I touch the altars, I take to witness the fires
and the gods between us; no time shall break this peace and truce in Italy, howsoever fortune
fall; nor shall any force turn my will aside, not if it dissolve land into water in turmoil
of deluge, or melt heaven in hell: so surely as this sceptre' (for haply he bore a sceptre
in his hand) 'shall never burgeon into thin leafage and shady shoot, since once in the forest
cut down right to the stem it lost its mother, and the steel lopped away its tressed arms:
a tree of old: now the craftsman's hand hath bound it in adornment of brass and given it to
our Latin fathers' bearing.'

With such words they sealed mutual treaty midway in sight of the princes. Then they duly slay
the consecrated beasts over the flames, and tear out their live entrails, and pile the altars
with laden chargers.

But long ere this the Rutulians deemed the battle unequal, and their hearts are stirred in
changeful motion; and now the more, as they discern nigher that in ill-matched strength . .
. . heightened by Turnus, as advancing with noiseless pace he humbly worships at the altar
with downcast eye, by his wasted cheeks and the pallor on his youthful frame. Soon as Juturna
his sister saw this talk spread, and the people's mind waver in uncertainty, into the mid ranks,
in feigned form of Camertus--his family was high in long ancestry, and his father's name [226-260]for
valour renowned, and himself most valiant in arms--into the mid ranks she glides, not ignorant
of her task, and scatters diverse rumours, saying thus: 'Shame, O Rutulians! shall we set one
life in the breach for so many such as these? are we unequal in numbers or bravery? See, Troy
and Arcadia is all they bring, and those fate-bound bands that Etruria hurls on Turnus. Scarce
is there an enemy to meet every other man of ours. He indeed will ascend to the gods for whose
altars he devotes himself, and move living in the lips of men: we, our country lost, shall
bow to the haughty rigour of our lords, if we now sit slackly on the field.'

By such words the soldiers' counsel was kindled yet higher and higher, and a murmur crept through
their columns; the very Laurentines, the very Latins are changed; and they who but now hoped
for rest from battle and rescue of fortune now desire arms and pray the treaty were undone,
and pity Turnus' cruel lot. To this Juturna adds a yet stronger impulse, and high in heaven
shews a sign more potent than any to confuse Italian souls with delusive augury. For on the
crimsoned sky Jove's tawny bird flew chasing, in a screaming crowd, fowl of the shore that
winged their column; then suddenly stooping to the water, pounces on a noble swan with merciless
crooked talons. The startled Italians watch, while all the birds together clamorously wheel
round from flight, wonderful to see, and dim the sky with their pinions, and in thickening
cloud urge their foe through air, till, conquered by their attack and his heavy prey, he yielded
and dropped it from his talons into the river, and winged his way deep into the clouds. Then
indeed the Rutulians clamorously greet the omen, and their hands flash out. And Tolumnius the
augur cries before them all: 'This it was, this, that my vows often have sought; I welcome
and know a deity; [261-294]follow me, follow, snatch up the sword, O hapless people whom the
greedy alien frightens with his arms like silly birds, and with strong hand ravages your shores.
He too will take to flight, and spread his sails afar over ocean. Do you with one heart close
up your squadrons, and defend in battle your lost king.' He spoke, and darting forward, hurled
a weapon full on the enemy; the whistling cornel-shaft sings, and unerringly cleaves the air.
At once and with it a vast shout goes up, and all their rows are amazed, and their hearts hotly
stirred. The spear flies on; where haply stood opposite in ninefold brotherhood all the beautiful
sons of one faithful Tyrrhene wife, borne of her to Gylippus the Arcadian, one of them, midway
where the sewn belt rubs on the flank and the clasp bites the fastenings of the side, one of
them, excellent in beauty and glittering in arms, it pierces clean through the ribs and stretches
on the yellow sand. But of his banded brethren, their courage fired by grief, some grasp and
draw their swords, some snatch weapons to throw, and rush blindly forward. The Laurentine columns
rush forth against them; again from the other side Trojans and Agyllines and Arcadians in painted
armour flood thickly in: so hath one passion seized all to make decision by the sword. They
pull the altars to pieces; through all the air goes a thick storm of weapons, and faster falls
the iron rain. Bowls and hearth-fires are carried off; Latinus himself retreats, bearing the
outraged gods of the broken treaty. The others harness their chariots, or vault upon their
horses and come up with swords drawn. Messapus, eager to shatter the treaty, rides menacingly
down on Aulestes the Tyrrhenian, a king in a king's array. Retreating hastily, and tripped
on the altars that meet him behind, the hapless man goes down on his head and shoulders. But
Messapus flies up with wrathful spear, and strikes him, as he pleads sore, a deep downward
[295-330]blow from horseback with his beam-like spear, saying thus: That for him: the high
gods take this better victim. The Italians crowd in and strip his warm limbs. Corynaeus seizes
a charred brand from the altar, and meeting Ebysus as he advances to strike, darts the flame
in his face; his heavy beard flamed up, and gave out a scorched smell. Following up his enemy's
confusion, the other seizes him with his left hand by the hair, and bears him to earth with
a thrust of his planted knee, and there drives the unyielding sword into his side. Podalirius
pursues and overhangs with naked sword the shepherd Alsus as he rushes amid the foremost line
of weapons; Alsus swings back his axe, and severs brow and chin full in front, wetting his
armour all over with spattered blood.

But good Aeneas, his head bared, kept stretching his unarmed hand and calling loudly to his
men: 'Whither run you? What is this strife that so spreads and swells? Ah, restrain your wrath!
truce is already stricken, and all its laws ordained; mine alone is the right of battle. Leave
me alone, and my hand shall confirm the treaty; these rites already make Turnus mine.' Amid
these accents, amid words like these, lo! a whistling arrow winged its way to him, sped from
what hand or driven by what god, none knows, or what chance or deity brought such honour to
the Rutulians; the renown of the high deed was buried, nor did any boast to have dealt Aeneas'
wound. Turnus, when he saw Aeneas retreating from the ranks and his captains in dismay, burns
hot with sudden hope. At once he calls for his horses and armour, and with a bound leaps proudly
into his chariot and handles the reins. He darts on, dealing many a brave man's body to death;
many an one he rolls half-slain, or crushes whole files under his chariot, or seizes and showers
spears on the fugitives. As [331-364]when by the streams of icy Hebrus Mavors kindles to bloodshed
and clashes on his shield, and stirs war and speeds his furious coursers; they outwing south
winds and west on the open plain; utmost Thrace groans under their hoof-beats; and around in
the god's train rush the faces of dark Terror, and Wraths and Ambushes; even so amid the battle
Turnus briskly lashes on his reeking horses, trampling on the foes that lie piteously slain;
the galloping hoof scatters bloody dew, and spurns mingled gore and sand. And now hath he dealt
Sthenelus to death, and Thamyrus and Pholus, him and him at close quarters, the other from
afar; from afar both the sons of Imbrasus, Glaucus and Lades, whom Imbrasus himself had nurtured
in Lycia and equipped in equal arms, whether to meet hand to hand or to outstrip the winds
on horseback. Elsewhere Eumedes advances amid the fray, ancient Dolon's brood, illustrious
in war, renewing his grandfather's name, his father's courage and strength of hand, who of
old dared to claim Pelides' chariot as his price if he went to spy out the Grecian camp; to
him the son of Tydeus told out another price for his venture, and he dreams no more of Achilles'
horses. Him Turnus descried far on the open plain, and first following him with light javelin
through long space of air, stops his double-harnessed horses and leaps from the chariot, and
descends on his fallen half-lifeless foe, and, planting his foot on his neck, wrests the blade
out of his hand and dyes its glitter deep in his throat, adding these words withal: 'Behold,
thou liest, Trojan, meting out those Hesperian fields thou didst seek in war. Such guerdon
is theirs who dare to tempt my sword; thus do they found their city.' Then with a spear-cast
he sends Asbutes to follow him, and Chloreus and Sybaris, Dares and Thersilochus, and Thymoetes
fallen flung over his horse's neck. And as when [365-398]the Edonian North wind's wrath roars
on the deep Aegean, and the wave follows it shoreward; where the blast comes down, the clouds
race over the sky; so, wheresoever Turnus cleaves his way, columns retreat and lines turn and
run; his own speed bears him on, and his flying plume tosses as his chariot meets the breeze.
Phegeus brooked not his proud approach; he faced the chariot, and caught and twisted away in
his right hand the mouths of his horses, spurred into speed and foaming on the bit. Dragged
along and hanging by the yoke he is left uncovered; the broad lance-head reaches him, pins
and pierces the double-woven breastplate, and lightly wounds the surface of his body. Yet turning,
he advanced on the enemy behind his shield, and sought succour in the naked point; when the
wheel running forward on its swift axle struck him headlong and flung him to ground, and Turnus'
sword following it smote off his head between the helmet-rim and the upper border of the breastplate,
and left the body on the sand.

And while Turnus thus victoriously deals death over the plains, Mnestheus meantime and faithful
Achates, and Ascanius by their side, set down Aeneas in the camp, dabbled with blood and leaning
every other step on his long spear. He storms, and tries hard to pull out the dart where the
reed had broken, and calls for the nearest way of remedy, to cut open the wound with broad
blade, and tear apart the weapon's lurking-place, and so send him back to battle. And now Iapix
son of Iasus came, beloved beyond others of Phoebus, to whom once of old, smitten with sharp
desire, Apollo gladly offered his own arts and gifts, augury and the lyre and swift arrows:
he, to lengthen out the destiny of a parent given over to die, chose rather to know the potency
of herbs and the practice of healing, and deal in a silent art unrenowned. Aeneas stood chafing
bitterly, propped on his vast spear, mourning [399-435]Iülus and a great crowd of men around,
unstirred by their tears. The aged man, with garment drawn back and girt about him in Paeonian
fashion, makes many a hurried effort with healing hand and the potent herbs of Phoebus, all
in vain; in vain his hand solicits the arrow-head, and his pincers' grasp pulls at the steel.
Fortune leads him forward in nowise; Apollo aids not with counsel; and more and more the fierce
clash swells over the plains, and the havoc draws nigher on. Already they see the sky a mass
of dust, the cavalry approaching, and shafts falling thickly amid the camp; the dismal cry
uprises of warriors fighting and falling under the War-god's heavy hand. At this, stirred deep
by her son's cruel pain, Venus his mother plucked from Cretan Ida a stalk of dittamy with downy
leaves and bright-tressed flowers, the plant not unknown to wild goats when winged arrows are
fast in their body. This Venus bore down, her shape girt in a dim halo; this she steeps with
secret healing in the river-water poured out and sparkling abrim, and sprinkles life-giving
juice of ambrosia and scented balm. With that water aged Iapix washed the wound, unwitting;
and suddenly, lo! all the pain left his body, all the blood in the deep wound was stanched.
And now following his hand the arrow fell out with no force, and strength returned afresh as
of old. 'Hasten! arms for him quickly! why stand you?' cries Iapix aloud, and begins to kindle
their courage against the enemy; 'this comes not by human resource or schooling of art, nor
does my hand save thee, Aeneas: a higher god is at work, and sends thee back to higher deeds.'
He, eager for battle, had already clasped on the greaves of gold right and left, and scorning
delay, brandishes his spear. When the shield is adjusted by his side and the corslet on his
back, he clasps Ascanius in his armed embrace, and lightly kissing him through the helmet,
cries: 'Learn of me, O boy, valour [436-470]and toil indeed, fortune of others. Now mine hand
shall give thee defence in war, and lead thee to great reward: do thou, when hereafter thine
age ripens to fulness, keep this in remembrance, and as thou recallest the pattern of thy kindred,
let thy spirit rise to thy father Aeneas, thine uncle Hector.'

These words uttered, he issued towering from the gates, brandishing his mighty spear: with
him in serried column rush Antheus and Mnestheus, and all the throng streams forth of the camp.
The field drifts with blinding dust, and the startled earth trembles under the tramp of feet.
From his earthworks opposite Turnus saw and the Ausonians saw them come, and an icy shudder
ran deep through their frame; first and before all the Latins Juturna heard and knew the sound,
and in terror fled away. He flies on, and hurries his dark column over the open plain. As when
in fierce weather a storm-cloud moves over mid sea to land, with presaging heart, ah me, the
hapless husbandmen shudder from afar; it will deal havoc to their trees and destruction to
their crops, and make a broad path of ruin; the winds fly before it, and bear its roar to the
beach; so the Rhoetean captain drives his army full on the foe; one and all they close up in
wedges, and mass their serried ranks. Thymbraeus smites massive Osiris with the sword, Mnestheus
slays Arcetius, Achates Epulo, Gyas Ufens: Tolumnius the augur himself goes down, he who had
hurled the first weapon against the foe. Their cry rises to heaven, and in turn the routed
Rutulians give backward in flight over the dusty fields. Himself he deigns not to cut down
the fugitives, nor pursue such as meet him fair on foot or approach in arms: Turnus alone he
tracks and searches in the thick haze, alone calls him to conflict. Then panic-stricken the
warrior maiden flings Turnus' charioteer out over his reins, and leaving him far where he slips
from the [471-504]chariot-pole, herself succeeds and turns the wavy reins, tones and limbs
and armour all of Metiscus' wearing. As when a black swallow flits through some rich lord's
spacious house, and circles in flight the lofty halls, gathering her tiny food for sustenance
to her twittering nestlings, and now swoops down the spacious colonnades, now round the wet
ponds; in like wise dart Juturna's horses amid the enemy, and her fleet chariot passes flying
over all the field. And now here and now here she displays her triumphant brother, nor yet
allows him to close, but flies far and away. None the less does Aeneas thread the circling
maze to meet him, and tracks his man, and with loud cry cries on him through the scattered
ranks. Often as he cast eyes on his enemy and essayed to outrun the speed of the flying-footed
horses, so often Juturna wheeled her team away. Alas, what can he do? Vainly he tosses on the
ebb and flow, and in his spirit diverse cares make conflicting call; when Messapus, who haply
bore in his left hand two tough spear-shafts topped with steel, runs lightly up and aims and
hurls one of them upon him with unerring stroke. Aeneas stood still, and gathered himself behind
his armour, sinking on bended knee; yet the rushing spear bore off his helmet-spike, and dashed
the helmet-plume from the crest. Then indeed his wrath swells; and forced to it by their treachery,
while chariot and horses disappear, he calls Jove oft and again to witness, and the altars
of the violated treaty, and now at last plunges amid their lines. Sweeping terrible down the
tide of battle he wakens fierce indiscriminate carnage, and flings loose all the reins of wrath.

What god may now unfold for me in verse so many woes, so many diverse slaughters and death
of captains whom now Turnus, now again the Trojan hero, drives over all the field? Was it well,
O God, that nations destined to everlasting peace should clash in so vast a shock? Aeneas [505-540]meets
Sucro the Rutulian; the combat stayed the first rush of the Teucrians, but delayed them not
long; he catches him on the side, and, when fate comes quickest, drives the harsh sword clean
through the ribs where they fence the breast. Turnus brings down Amycus from horseback with
his brother Diores, and meets them on foot; him he strikes with his long spear as he comes,
him with his sword-point, and hangs both severed heads on his chariot and carries them off
dripping with blood. The one sends to death Talos and Tanaïs and brave Cethegus, three at one
meeting, and gloomy Onites, of Echionian name, and Peridia the mother that bore him; the other
those brethren sent from Lycia and Apollo's fields, and Menoetes the Arcadian, him who loathed
warfare in vain; who once had his art and humble home about the river-fisheries of Lerna, and
knew not the courts of the great, but his father was tenant of the land he tilled. And as fires
kindled dispersedly in a dry forest and rustling laurel-thickets, or foaming rivers where they
leap swift and loud from high hills, and speed to sea each in his own path of havoc; as fiercely
the two, Aeneas and Turnus, dash amid the battle; now, now wrath surges within them, and unconquerable
hearts are torn; now in all their might they rush upon wounds. The one dashes Murranus down
and stretches him on the soil with a vast whirling mass of rock, as he cries the names of his
fathers and forefathers of old, a whole line drawn through Latin kings; under traces and yoke
the wheels spurned him, and the fast-beating hoofs of his rushing horses trample down their
forgotten lord. The other meets Hyllus rushing on in gigantic pride, and hurls his weapon at
his gold-bound temples; the spear pierced through the helmet and stood fast in the brain. Neither
did thy right hand save thee from Turnus, O Cretheus, bravest of the Greeks; nor did his gods
shield Cupencus when Aeneas came; he gave his [541-575]breast full to the steel, nor, alas!
was the brazen shield's delay aught of avail. Thee likewise, Aeolus, the Laurentine plains
saw sink backward and cover a wide space of earth; thou fallest, whom Argive battalions could
not lay low, nor Achilles the destroyer of Priam's realm. Here was thy goal of death; thine
high house was under Ida, at Lyrnesus thine high house, on Laurentine soil thy tomb. The whole
battle-lines gather up, all Latium and all Dardania, Mnestheus and valiant Serestus, with Messapus,
tamer of horses, and brave Asilas, the Tuscan battalion and Evander's Arcadian squadrons; man
by man they struggle with all their might; no rest nor pause in the vast strain of conflict.

At this Aeneas' mother most beautiful inspired him to advance on the walls, directing his columns
on the town and dismaying the Latins with sudden and swift disaster. As in search for Turnus
he bent his glance this way and that round the separate ranks, he descries the city free from
all this warfare, unpunished and unstirred. Straightway he kindles at the view of a greater
battle; he summons Mnestheus and Sergestus and brave Serestus his captains, and mounts a hillock;
there the rest of the Teucrian army gathers thickly, still grasping shield and spear. Standing
on the high mound amid them, he speaks: 'Be there no delay to my words; Jupiter is with us;
neither let any be slower to move that the design is sudden. This city to-day, the source of
war, the royal seat of Latinus, unless they yield them to receive our yoke and obey their conquerors,
will I raze to ground, and lay her smoking roofs level with the dust. Must I wait forsooth
till Turnus please to stoop to combat, and choose again to face his conqueror? This, O citizens,
is the fountain-head and crown of the accursed war. Bring brands speedily, and reclaim the
treaty in fire.' He ended; all with spirit alike emulous form a wedge and advance in serried
masses to the walls. Ladders are run [576-611]up, and fire leaps sudden to sight. Some rush
to the separate gates, and cut down the guards of the entry, others hurl their steel and darken
the sky with weapons. Aeneas himself among the foremost, upstretching his hand to the city
walls, loudly reproaches Latinus, and takes the gods to witness that he is again forced into
battle, that twice now do the Italians choose warfare and break a second treaty. Discord rises
among the alarmed citizens: some bid unbar the town and fling wide their gates to the Dardanians,
and pull the king himself towards the ramparts; others bring arms and hasten to defend the
walls: as when a shepherd tracks bees to their retreat in a recessed rock, and fills it with
stinging smoke, they within run uneasily up and down their waxen fortress, and hum louder in
rising wrath; the smell rolls in darkness along their dwelling, and a blind murmur echoes within
the rock as the smoke issues to the empty air.

This fortune likewise befell the despairing Latins, this woe shook the whole city to her base.
The queen espies from her roof the enemy's approach, the walls scaled and firebrands flying
on the houses; and nowhere Rutulian ranks, none of Turnus' columns to meet them; alas! she
deems him destroyed in the shock of battle, and, distracted by sudden anguish, shrieks that
she is the source of guilt, the spring of ill, and with many a mad utterance of frenzied grief
rends her purple attire with dying hand, and ties from a lofty beam the ghastly noose of death.
And when the unhappy Latin women knew this calamity, first her daughter Lavinia tears her flower-like
tresses and roseate cheeks, and all the train around her madden in her suit; the wide palace
echoes to their wailing, and from it the sorrowful rumour spreads abroad throughout the town.
All hearts sink; Latinus goes with torn raiment, in dismay at his wife's doom and his city's
downfall, defiling his hoary hair with soilure of sprinkled dust.

[614-648]Meanwhile on the skirts of the field Turnus chases scattered stragglers, ever slacker
to battle, ever less and less exultant in his coursers' victorious speed. The confused cry
came to him borne in blind terror down the breeze, and his startled ears caught the echoing
tumult and disastrous murmur of the town. 'Ah me! what agony shakes the city? or what is this
cry that fleets so loud from the distant town?' So speaks he, and distractedly checks the reins.
And to him his sister, as changed into his charioteer Metiscus' likeness she swayed horses
and chariot-reins, thus rejoined: 'This way, Turnus, let us pursue the brood of Troy, where
victory opens her nearest way; there are others whose hands can protect their dwellings. Aeneas
falls fiercer on the Italians, and closes in conflict; let our hand too deal pitiless death
on his Teucrians. Neither in tale of dead nor in glory of battle shalt thou retire outdone.'
Thereat Turnus: . . .

'Ah my sister, long ere now I knew thee, when first thine arts shattered the treaty, and thou
didst mingle in the strife; and now thy godhead conceals itself in vain. But who hath bidden
thee descend from heaven to bear this sore travail? was it that thou mightest see thy hapless
brother cruelly slain? for what do I, or what fortune yet gives promise of safety? Before my
very eyes, calling aloud on me, I saw Murranus, than whom none other is left me more dear,
sink huge to earth, borne down by as huge a wound. Hapless Ufens is fallen, not to see our
shame; corpse and armour are in Teucrian hands. The destruction of their households, this was
the one thing yet lacking; shall I suffer it? Shall my hand not refute Drances' jeers? shall
I turn my back, and this land see Turnus a fugitive? Is Death all so bitter? Do you, O Shades,
be gracious to me, since the powers of heaven are estranged; to you shall I go down, a pure
spirit and [649-681]ignorant of your blame, never once unworthy of my mighty fathers of old.'

Scarce had he spoken thus; lo! Saces, borne flying on his foaming horse through the thickest
of the foe, an arrow-wound right in his face, darts, beseeching Turnus by his name. 'Turnus,
in thee is our last safety; pity thy people. Aeneas thunders in arms, and threatens to overthrow
and hurl to destruction the high Italian fortress; and already firebrands are flying on our
roofs. On thee, on thee the Latins turn their gazing eyes; King Latinus himself mutters in
doubt, whom he is to call his sons, to whom he shall incline in union. Moreover the queen,
thy surest stay, hath fallen by her own hand and in dismay fled the light. Alone in front of
the gates Messapus and valiant Atinas sustain the battle-line. Round about them to right and
left the armies stand locked and the iron field shivers with naked points; thou wheelest thy
chariot on the sward alone.' At the distracting picture of his fortune Turnus froze in horror
and stood in dumb gaze; together in his heart sweep the vast mingling tides of shame and maddened
grief, and love stung to frenzy and resolved valour. So soon as the darkness cleared and light
returned to his soul, he fiercely turned his blazing eyeballs towards the ramparts, and gazed
back from his wheels on the great city. And lo! a spire of flame wreathing through the floors
wavered up skyward and held a turret fast, a turret that he himself had reared of mortised
planks and set on rollers and laid with high gangways. 'Now, O my sister, now fate prevails:
cease to hinder; let us follow where deity and stern fortune call. I am resolved to face Aeneas,
resolved to bear what bitterness there is in death; nor shalt thou longer see me shamed, sister
of mine. Let me be mad, I pray thee, with this madness before the end.' He spoke, and leapt
swiftly from his chariot to the field, and darting through weapons [682-718]and through enemies,
leaves his sorrowing sister, and bursts in rapid course amid their columns. And as when a rock
rushes headlong from some mountain peak, torn away by the blast, or if the rushing rain washes
it away, or the stealing years loosen its ancient hold; the reckless mountain mass goes sheer
and impetuous, and leaps along the ground, hurling with it forests and herds and men; thus
through the scattering columns Turnus rushes to the city walls, where the earth is wettest
with bloodshed and the air sings with spears; and beckons with his hand, and thus begins aloud:
'Forbear now, O Rutulians, and you, Latins, stay your weapons. Whatsoever fortune is left is
mine: I singly must expiate the treaty for you all, and make decision with the sword.' All
drew aside and left him room.

But lord Aeneas, hearing Turnus' name, abandons the walls, abandons the fortress height, and
in exultant joy flings aside all hindrance, breaks off all work, and clashes his armour terribly,
vast as Athos, or as Eryx, or as the lord of Apennine when he roars with his tossing ilex woods
and rears his snowy crest rejoicing into air. Now indeed Rutulians and Trojans and all Italy
turned in emulous gaze, and they who held the high city, and they whose ram was battering the
foundations of the wall, and unarmed their shoulders. Latinus himself stands in amaze at the
mighty men, born in distant quarters of the world, met and making decision with the sword.
And they, in the empty level field that cleared for them, darted swiftly forward, and hurling
their spears from far, close in battle shock with clangour of brazen shields. Earth utters
a moan; the sword-strokes fall thick and fast, chance and valour joining in one. And as in
broad Sila or high on Taburnus, when two bulls rush to deadly battle forehead to forehead,
the herdsmen retire in terror, all the herd stands dumb in dismay, and the heifers murmur in
doubt which shall be [719-752]lord in the woodland, which all the cattle must follow; they
violently deal many a mutual wound, and gore with their stubborn horns, bathing their necks
and shoulders in abundant blood; all the woodland moans back their bellowing: even thus Aeneas
of Troy and the Daunian hero rush together shield to shield; the mighty crash fills the sky.
Jupiter himself holds up the two scales in even balance, and lays in them the different fates
of both, trying which shall pay forfeit of the strife, whose weight shall sink in death. Turnus
darts out, thinking it secure, and rises with his whole reach of body on his uplifted sword;
then strikes; Trojans and Latins cry out in excitement, and both armies strain their gaze.
But the treacherous sword shivers, and in mid stroke deserts its eager lord. If flight aid
him not now! He flies swifter than the wind, when once he descries a strange hilt in his weaponless
hand. Rumour is that in his headlong hurry, when mounting behind his yoked horses to begin
the battle, he left his father's sword behind and caught up his charioteer Metiscus' weapon;
and that served him long, while Teucrian stragglers turned their backs; when it met the divine
Vulcanian armour, the mortal blade like brittle ice snapped in the stroke; the shards lie glittering
upon the yellow sand. So in distracted flight Turnus darts afar over the plain, and now this
way and now that crosses in wavering circles; for on all hands the Teucrians locked him in
crowded ring, and the dreary marsh on this side, on this the steep city ramparts hem him in.

Therewith Aeneas pursues, though ever and anon his knees, disabled by the arrow, hinder and
stay his speed; and foot hard on foot presses hotly on his hurrying enemy: as when a hunter
courses with a fleet barking hound some stag caught in a river-loop or girt by the crimson-feathered
toils, and he, in terror of the snares and the high river-bank, [753-786]darts back and forward
in a thousand ways; but the keen Umbrian clings agape, and just catches at him, and as though
he caught him snaps his jaws while the baffled teeth close on vacancy. Then indeed a cry goes
up, and banks and pools answer round about, and all the sky echoes the din. He, even as he
flies, chides all his Rutulians, calling each by name, and shrieks for the sword he knew. But
Aeneas denounces death and instant doom if one of them draw nigh, and doubles their terror
with threats of their city's destruction, and though wounded presses on. Five circles they
cover at full speed, and unwind as many this way and that; for not light nor slight is the
prize they seek, but Turnus' very lifeblood is at issue. Here there haply had stood a bitter-leaved
wild olive, sacred to Faunus, a tree worshipped by mariners of old; on it, when rescued from
the waves, they were wont to fix their gifts to the god of Laurentum and hang their votive
raiment; but the Teucrians, unregarding, had cleared away the sacred stem, that they might
meet on unimpeded lists. Here stood Aeneas' spear; hither borne by its own speed it was held
fast stuck in the tough root. The Dardanian stooped over it, and would wrench away the steel,
to follow with the weapon him whom he could not catch in running. Then indeed Turnus cries
in frantic terror: 'Faunus, have pity, I beseech thee! and thou, most gracious Earth, keep
thy hold on the steel, as I ever have kept your worship, and the Aeneadae again have polluted
it in war.' He spoke, and called the god to aid in vows that fell not fruitless. For all Aeneas'
strength, his long struggling and delay over the tough stem availed not to unclose the hard
grip of the wood. While he strains and pulls hard, the Daunian goddess, changing once more
into the charioteer Metiscus' likeness, runs forward and passes her brother his sword. But
Venus, indignant that the [787-818]Nymph might be so bold, drew nigh and wrenched away the
spear where it stuck deep in the root. Erect in fresh courage and arms, he with his faithful
sword, he towering fierce over his spear, they face one another panting in the battle shock.

Meanwhile the King of Heaven's omnipotence accosts Juno as she gazes on the battle from a sunlit
cloud. 'What yet shall be the end, O wife? what remains at the last? Heaven claims Aeneas as
his country's god, thou thyself knowest and avowest to know, and fate lifts him to the stars.
With what device or in what hope hangest thou chill in cloudland? Was it well that a deity
should be sullied by a mortal's wound? or that the lost sword--for what without thee could
Juturna avail?--should be restored to Turnus and swell the force of the vanquished? Forbear
now, I pray, and bend to our entreaties; let not the pain thus devour thee in silence, and
distress so often flood back on me from thy sweet lips. The end is come. Thou hast had power
to hunt the Trojans over land or wave, to kindle accursed war, to put the house in mourning,
and plunge the bridal in grief: further attempt I forbid thee.' Thus Jupiter began: thus the
goddess, daughter of Saturn, returned with looks cast down:

'Even because this thy will, great Jupiter, is known to me for thine, have I left, though loth,
Turnus alone on earth; nor else wouldst thou see me now, alone on this skyey seat, enduring
good and bad; but girt in flame I were standing by their very lines, and dragging the Teucrians
into the deadly battle. I counselled Juturna, I confess it, to succour her hapless brother,
and for his life's sake favoured a greater daring; yet not the arrow-shot, not the bending
of the bow, I swear by the merciless well-head of the Stygian spring, the single ordained dread
of the gods in heaven. And now I retire, and leave the battle in loathing. [819-854]This thing
I beseech thee, that is bound by no fatal law, for Latium and for the majesty of thy kindred.
When now they shall plight peace with prosperous marriages (be it so!), when now they shall
join in laws and treaties, bid thou not the native Latins change their name of old, nor become
Trojans and take the Teucrian name, or change their language, or alter their attire: let Latium
be, let Alban kings endure through ages, let Italian valour be potent in the race of Rome.
Troy is fallen; let her and her name lie where they fell.'

To her smilingly the designer of men and things:

'Jove's own sister thou art, and second seed of Saturn, such surge of wrath tosses within thy
breast! But come, allay this madness so vainly stirred. I give thee thy will, and yield thee
ungrudged victory. Ausonia shall keep her native speech and usage, and as her name is, it shall
be. The Trojans shall sink mingling into their blood; I will add their sacred law and ritual,
and make all Latins and of a single speech. Hence shall spring a race of tempered Ausonian
blood, whom thou shalt see outdo men and gods in duty; nor shall any nation so observe thy
worship.' To this Juno assented, and in gladness withdrew her purpose; meanwhile she quits
her cloud, and retires out of the sky.

This done, the Father revolves inly another counsel, and prepares to separate Juturna from
her brother's arms. Twin monsters there are, called the Dirae by their name, whom with infernal
Megaera the dead of night bore at one single birth, and wreathed them in like serpent coils,
and clothed them in windy wings. They appear at Jove's throne and in the courts of the grim
king, and quicken the terrors of wretched men whensoever the lord of heaven deals sicknesses
and dreadful death, or sends terror of war upon guilty cities. One of these Jupiter sent swiftly
down from heaven's height, and bade her meet Juturna for a [855-888]sign. She wings her way,
and darts in a whirlwind to earth. Even as an arrow through a cloud, darting from the string
when Parthian hath poisoned it with bitter gall, Parthian or Cydonian, and sped the immedicable
shaft, leaps through the swift shadow whistling and unknown; so sprung and swept to earth the
daughter of Night. When she espies the Ilian ranks and Turnus' columns, suddenly shrinking
to the shape of a small bird that often sits late by night on tombs or ruinous roofs, and vexes
the darkness with her cry, in such change of likeness the monster shrilly passes and repasses
before Turnus' face, and her wings beat restlessly on his shield. A strange numbing terror
unnerves his limbs, his hair thrills up, and the accents falter on his tongue. But when his
hapless sister knew afar the whistling wings of the Fury, Juturna unbinds and tears her tresses,
with rent face and smitten bosom. 'How, O Turnus, can thine own sister help thee now? or what
more is there if I break not under this? What art of mine can lengthen out thy day? can I contend
with this ominous thing? Now, now I quit the field. Dismay not my terrors, disastrous birds;
I know these beating wings, and the sound of death, nor do I miss high-hearted Jove's haughty
ordinance. Is this his repayment for my maidenhood? what good is his gift of life for ever?
why have I forfeited a mortal's lot? Now assuredly could I make all this pain cease, and go
with my unhappy brother side by side into the dark. Alas mine immortality! will aught of mine
be sweet to me without thee, my brother? Ah, how may Earth yawn deep enough for me, and plunge
my godhead in the under world!'

So spoke she, and wrapping her head in her gray vesture, the goddess moaning sore sank in the
river depth.

But Aeneas presses on, brandishing his vast tree-like spear, and fiercely speaks thus: 'What
more delay is there [889-924]now? or why, Turnus, dost thou yet shrink away? Not in speed of
foot, in grim arms, hand to hand, must be the conflict. Transform thyself as thou wilt, and
collect what strength of courage or skill is thine; pray that thou mayest wing thy flight to
the stars on high, or that sheltering earth may shut thee in.' The other, shaking his head:
'Thy fierce words dismay me not, insolent! the gods dismay me, and Jupiter's enmity.' And no
more said, his eyes light on a vast stone, a stone ancient and vast that haply lay upon the
plain, set for a landmark to divide contested fields: scarcely might twelve chosen men lift
it on their shoulders, of such frame as now earth brings to birth: then the hero caught it
up with trembling hand and whirled it at the foe, rising higher and quickening his speed. But
he knows not his own self running nor going nor lifting his hands or moving the mighty stone;
his knees totter, his blood freezes cold; the very stone he hurls, spinning through the empty
void, neither wholly reached its distance nor carried its blow home. And as in sleep, when
nightly rest weighs down our languorous eyes, we seem vainly to will to run eagerly on, and
sink faint amidst our struggles; the tongue is powerless, the familiar strength fails the body,
nor will words or utterance follow: so the disastrous goddess brings to naught all Turnus'
valour as he presses on. His heart wavers in shifting emotion; he gazes on his Rutulians and
on the city, and falters in terror, and shudders at the imminent spear; neither sees he whither
he may escape nor how rush violently on the enemy, and nowhere his chariot or his sister at
the reins. As he wavers Aeneas poises the deadly weapon, and, marking his chance, hurls it
in from afar with all his strength of body. Never with such a roar are stones hurled from some
engine on ramparts, nor does the thunder burst in so loud a peal. Carrying grim death with
it, the spear flies in fashion of some dark whirlwind, and [925-952]opens the rim of the corslet
and the utmost circles of the sevenfold shield. Right through the thigh it passes hurtling
on; under the blow Turnus falls huge to earth with his leg doubled under him. The Rutulians
start up with a groan, and all the hill echoes round about, and the width of high woodland
returns their cry. Lifting up beseechingly his humbled eyes and suppliant hand: 'I have deserved
it,' he says, 'nor do I ask for mercy; use thy fortune. If an unhappy parent's distress may
at all touch thee, this I pray; even such a father was Anchises to thee; pity Daunus' old age,
and restore to my kindred which thou wilt, me or my body bereft of day. Thou art conqueror,
and Ausonia hath seen me stretch conquered hands. Lavinia is thine in marriage; press not thy
hatred farther.'

Aeneas stood wrathful in arms, with rolling eyes, and lowered his hand; and now and now yet
more the speech began to bend him to waver: when high on his shoulder appeared the sword-belt
with the shining bosses that he knew, the luckless belt of the boy Pallas, whom Turnus had
struck down with mastering wound, and wore on his shoulders the fatal ornament. The other,
as his eyes drank in the plundered record of his fierce grief, kindles to fury, and cries terrible
in anger: 'Mayest thou, thou clad in the spoils of my dearest, escape mine hands? Pallas it
is, Pallas who now strikes the sacrifice, and exacts vengeance in thy guilty blood.' So saying,
he fiercely plunges the steel full in his breast. But his limbs grow slack and chill, and the
life with a moan flies indignantly into the dark.

THE END.

NOTES

BOOK FIRST

l. 123--Accipiunt inimicum imbrem. Inimica non tantum hostilia sed perniciosa.--Serv. on ix.
315. The word often has this latter sense in Virgil.

l. 396--Aut capere aut captas iam despectare videntur. Henry seems unquestionably right in
explaining captas despectare of the swans rising and hovering over the place where they had
settled, this action being more fully expressed in the next two lines. The parallelism between
ll. 396 and 400 exists, but it is inverted, capere corresponding to subit, captas despectare
to tenet.

l. 427--lata theatris with the balance of MS. authority.

l. 550--Arvaque after Med. and Pal.; armaque Con.

l. 636--Munera laetitiamque die ('ut multi legunt,' says Serv.), though it has little MS. authority,
has been adopted because it is strongly probable on internal grounds, as giving a basis for
the other two readings, dei and dii.

l. 722--The long-since-unstirred spirit.

     And weep afresh love's long-since-cancell'd woe.
                                  SHAKESPEARE, Sonnet XXX.

l. 726--dependent lychni laquearibus aureis. Serv. on viii. 25, summique ferit laquearia tecti,
says 'multi lacuaria legunt. nam lacus dicuntur: unde est . . . lacunar. non enim a laqueis
dicitur.' As Prof. Nettleship has pointed out, this seems to indicate that there are two words,
laquear from laqueus, meaning chain or network, and lacuar or lacunar from lacus, meaning sunk
work.

BOOK SECOND

l. 30--Classibus hic locus. Ad equites referre debemus.--Serv. Cf. also vii. 716.

l. 76--Omitted with the best MSS.

l. 234--moenia pandimus urbis. Moenia cetera urbis tecta vel aedes accipiendum.--Serv. This
is the sense which the word generally has in Virgil: it is often used in contrast with muri,
or as a synonym of urbs; and in most cases city is its nearest English equivalent.

l. 381--caerula colla tumentem. Caerulum est viride cum nigro.--Serv. on vii. 198. Cf. iii.
208, where it is used of the colour of the sea after a storm.

l. 616--nimbo effulgens. est fulgidum lumen quo deorum capita cinguntur. sic etiam pingi solet.--Serv.
Cf. xii. 416.

BOOK THIRD

l. 127--freta concita terris with all the best MSS.; consita Con.

l. 152--qua se Plena per insertas fundebat Luna fenestras. The usual explanation, which makes
insertas an epithet transferred by a sort of hypallage from Luna to fenestras, is extremely
violent, and makes the word little more than a repetition of se fundebat. Servius mentions
two other interpretations; non seratas, quasi inseratas, and clatratas; the last has been adopted
in the translation.

In the passage of Lucretius (ii. 114) which Virgil has imitated here,

     Contemplator enim cum solis lumina . . .
     Inserti fundunt radii per opaca domorum,

it is possible that clatris may be the lost word.

l. 684--

     Contra iussa monent Heleni, Scyllam atque Charybdim
     Inter, utramque viam leti discrimine parvo
     Ni teneant cursus.

In this difficult passage it is probably best to take cursus as the subject to teneant (cursus
teneant, id est agantur.--Serv. Cf. also l. 454 above, quamvis vi cursus in altum Vela vocet),
viam being either the direct object of teneant, or in loose apposition to Scyllam atque Charybdim.

l. 708--tempestatibus actis with Rom. and Pal.; actus Con. after Med.

BOOK FOURTH

     Totus hic liber . . . in consiliis et subtilitatibus est.
     nam paene comicus stilus est. nec mirum, ubi de amore
     tractatur.--Serv.

l. 273--Omitted with the best MSS.

l. 528--Omitted with the best MSS.

BOOK FIFTH

l. 595--iuduntque per undas, omitted with the preponderance of MS. authority.

BOOK SIXTH

l. 242--Omitted with the balance of MS. authority.

l. 806--virtutem extendere factis with Med.; virtute extendere vires Con.

BOOK EIGHTH

l. 46--Omitted with the majority of the best MSS.

l. 383--Arma rogo. Genetrix nato te filia Nerei.

     Arma rogo. hic distinguendum, ut cui petat non dicat, sed
     relinquat intellegi . . . Genetrix nato te filia Nerei. hoc
     est, soles hoc praestare matribus.--Serv.

BOOK NINTH

l. 29--Omitted with all the best MSS.

l. 122--Omitted with all the best MSS.

l. 281--

             Me nulla dies tam fortibus ausis
     Dissimilem arguerit tantum, Fortuna secunda
     Aut adversa cadat.

With some hesitation I have adopted this reading as the one open to least objection, though
the balance of authority is decidedly in favour of haud adversa. For the position of tantum
cf. Ecl. x. 46, according to the 'subtilior explicatio' now generally adopted.

l. 412--

     Et venit adversi in tergum Sulmonis ibique
     Frangitur, et fisso transit praecordia ligno.

The phrase in tergum occurs twice elsewhere: ix. 764--meaning 'on the back'; and xi. 653--meaning
'backward'; and in x. 718 the uncertainty about the order of the lines makes it possible that
tergo decutit hastas was meant to refer to the boar, not to Mezentius. But the passages quoted
by the editors there shew that the word might be used in the sense of 'shield'; and this being
so we are scarcely justified in reading aversi against all the good MSS.

l. 529--Omitted with most MSS.

BOOK TENTH

l. 278--Omitted with the best MSS.

l. 754--Insidiis, iaculo et longe fallente sagitta. The MS. authority is decidedly in favour
of this, the more difficult reading; and the hendiadys is not more violent than those in Georg.
ii. 192, Aen. iii. 223.

BOOK TWELFTH

l. 218--Tum magis, ut propius cernunt non viribus aequis.

With Ribbeck I believe that there is a gap in the sense here, and have marked one in the translation.

l. 520--Limina with Med. Munera Con.

ll. 612, 613--Omitted with the best MSS.

l. 751--Venator cursu canis et latratibus instat. I take cursu canis as equivalent to currente
cane, as in i. 324, spumantis apri cursum clamore prementem.

Printed by R. & R. CLARK, Edinburgh.

       *       *       *       *       *

The following words appear with and without a hyphen. Spelling has been left as in the original.

     blood-stained    bloodstained
     hill-tops        hilltops
     horse-hair       horsehair
     life-blood       lifeblood
     new-born         newborn
     spear-shaft      spearshaft
     water-ways       waterways

The following words are spelled in multiple ways. Spelling has been left as in the original.

     aery             aëry
     horned           hornèd
     Nereids          Nereïd
     Pergama          Pergamea

The following corrections have made to the text:

     page 173--'[quotation mark missing in original]Nymphs,
     Laurentine Nymphs

     page 202--in name fail to be Creüsa[original has Crëusa]

     page 207--Rumour on fluttering[original has flutttering] wings

     page 285--the Rhoetean[original has Rhoeteian] captain drives
     his army

The first occurrence of Phoebus was rendered with an oe ligature in the original.

Ellipses match the original.