And so the high tone of the office is maintained.

Such is the character of the Weights and Measures at this present period of which we are now
treating. The exoteric crowd of the Civil Service, that is, the great body of clerks attached
to other offices, regard their brethren of the Weights as prigs and pedants, and look on them
much as a master's favourite is apt to be regarded by other boys at school. But this judgement
is an unfair one. Prigs and pedants, and hypocrites too, there are among them, no doubt--but
there are also among them many stirred by an honourable ambition to do well for their country
and themselves, and to two such men the reader is now requested to permit himself to be introduced.

Henry Norman, the senior of the two, is the second son of a gentleman of small property in
the north of England. He was educated at a public school, and thence sent to Oxford; but before
he had finished his first year at Brasenose his father was obliged to withdraw him from it,
finding himself unable to bear the expense of a university education for his two sons. His
elder son at Cambridge was extravagant; and as, at the critical moment when decision became
necessary, a nomination in the Weights and Measures was placed at his disposal, old Mr. Norman
committed the not uncommon injustice of preferring the interests of his elder but faulty son
to those of the younger with whom no fault had been found, and deprived his child of the chance
of combining the glories and happiness of a double first, a fellow, a college tutor, and a don.

Whether Harry Norman gained or lost most by the change we need not now consider, but at the
age of nineteen he left Oxford and entered on his new duties. It must not, however, be supposed
that this was a step which he took without difficulty and without pause. It is true that the
grand modern scheme for competitive examinations had not as yet been composed. Had this been
done, and had it been carried out, how awful must have been the cramming necessary to get a
lad into the Weights and Measures! But, even as things were then, it was no easy matter for
a young man to convince the chief clerk that he had all the acquirements necessary for the
high position to which he aspired.

Indeed, that chief clerk was insatiable, and generally succeeded in making every candidate
conceive the very lowest opinion of himself and his own capacities before the examination was
over. Some, of course, were sent away at once with ignominy, as evidently incapable. Many retired
in the middle of it with a conviction that they must seek their fortunes at the bar, or in
medical pursuits, or some other comparatively easy walk of life. Others were rejected on the
fifth or sixth day as being deficient in conic sections, or ignorant of the exact principles
of hydraulic pressure. And even those who were retained were so retained, as it were, by an
act of grace. The Weights and Measures was, and indeed is, like heaven--no man can deserve
it. No candidate can claim as his right to be admitted to the fruition of the appointment which
has been given to him. Henry Norman, however, was found, at the close of his examination, to
be the least undeserving of the young men then under notice, and was duly installed in his
clerkship.

It need hardly be explained, that to secure so high a level of information as that required
at the Weights and Measures, a scale of salaries equally exalted has been found necessary.
Young men consequently enter at L100 a year. We are speaking, of course, of that more respectable
branch of the establishment called the Secretary's Department. At none other of our public
offices do men commence with more than L90--except, of course, at those in which political
confidence is required. Political confidence is indeed as expensive as hydraulic pressure,
though generally found to be less difficult of attainment.

Henry Norman, therefore, entered on his labours under good auspices, having L10 per annum more
for the business and pleasures of life in London than most of his young brethren of the Civil
Service. Whether this would have sufficed of itself to enable him to live up to that tone of
society to which he had been accustomed cannot now be surmised, as very shortly after his appointment
an aunt died, from whom he inherited some L150 or L200 a year. He was, therefore, placed above
all want, and soon became a shining light even in that bright gallery of spiritualized stars
which formed the corps of clerks in the Secretary's Office at the Weights and Measures.

Young Norman was a good-looking lad when he entered the public service, and in a few years
he grew up to be a handsome man. He was tall and thin and dark, muscular in his proportions,
and athletic in his habits. From the date of his first enjoyment of his aunt's legacy he had
a wherry on the Thames, and was soon known as a man whom it was hard for an amateur to beat.
He had a racket in a racket-court at St. John's Wood Road, and as soon as fortune and merit
increased his salary by another L100 a year, he usually had a nag for the season. This, however,
was not attained till he was able to count five years' service in the Weights and Measures.
He was, as a boy, somewhat shy and reserved in his manners, and as he became older he did not
shake off the fault. He showed it, however, rather among men than with women, and, indeed,
in spite of his love of exercise, he preferred the society of ladies to any of the bachelor
gaieties of his unmarried acquaintance. He was, nevertheless, frank and confident in those
he trusted, and true in his friendships, though, considering his age, too slow in making a
friend. Such was Henry Norman at the time at which our tale begins. What were the faults in
his character it must be the business of the tale to show.

The other young clerk in this office to whom we alluded is Alaric Tudor. He is a year older
than Henry Norman, though he began his official career a year later, and therefore at the age
of twenty- one. How it happened that he contrived to pass the scrutinizing instinct and deep
powers of examination possessed by the chief clerk, was a great wonder to his friends, though
apparently none at all to himself. He took the whole proceeding very easily; while another
youth alongside of him, who for a year had been reading up for his promised nomination, was
so awe-struck by the severity of the proceedings as to lose his powers of memory and forget
the very essence of the differential calculus.

Of hydraulic pressure and the differential calculus young Tudor knew nothing, and pretended
to know nothing. He told the chief clerk that he was utterly ignorant of all such matters,
that his only acquirements were a tolerably correct knowledge of English, French, and German,
with a smattering of Latin and Greek, and such an intimacy with the ordinary rules of arithmetic
and with the first books of Euclid, as he had been able to pick up while acting as a tutor,
rather than a scholar, in a small German university.

The chief clerk raised his eyebrows and said he feared it would not do. A clerk, however, was
wanting. It was very clear that the young gentleman who had only showed that he had forgotten
his conic sections could not be supposed to have passed. The austerity of the last few years
had deterred more young men from coming forward than the extra L10 had induced to do so. One
unfortunate, on the failure of all his hopes, had thrown himself into the Thames from the neighbouring
boat-stairs; and though he had been hooked out uninjured by the man who always attends there
with two wooden legs, the effect on his parents' minds had been distressing. Shortly after
this occurrence the chief clerk had been invited to attend the Board, and the Chairman of the
Commissioners, who, on the occasion, was of course prompted by the Secretary, recommended Mr.
Hardlines to be a leetle more lenient. In doing so the quantity of butter which he poured over
Mr. Hardlines' head and shoulders with the view of alleviating the misery which such a communication
would be sure to inflict, was very great. But, nevertheless, Mr. Hardlines came out from the
Board a crestfallen and unhappy man. 'The service,' he said, 'would go to the dogs, and might
do for anything he cared, and he did not mind how soon. If the Board chose to make the Weights
and Measures a hospital for idiots, it might do so. He had done what little lay in his power
to make the office respectable; and now, because mammas complained when their cubs of sons
were not allowed to come in there and rob the public and destroy the office books, he was to
be thwarted and reprimanded! He had been,' he said, 'eight-and-twenty years in office, and
was still in his prime--but he should,' he thought, 'take advantage of the advice of his medical
friends, and retire. He would never remain there to see the Weights and Measures become a hospital
for incurables!'

It was thus that Mr. Hardlines, the chief clerk, expressed himself. He did not, however, send
in a medical certificate, nor apply for a pension; and the first apparent effect of the little
lecture which he had received from the Chairman, was the admission into the service of Alaric
Tudor. Mr. Hardlines was soon forced to admit that the appointment was not a bad one, as before
his second year was over, young Tudor had produced a very smart paper on the merits--or demerits--of
the strike bushel.

Alaric Tudor when he entered the office was by no means so handsome a youth as Harry Norman;
but yet there was that in his face which was more expressive, and perhaps more attractive.
He was a much slighter man, though equally tall. He could boast no adventitious capillary graces,
whereas young Norman had a pair of black curling whiskers, which almost surrounded his face,
and had been the delight and wonder of the maidservants in his mother's house, when he returned
home for his first official holiday. Tudor wore no whiskers, and his light-brown hair was usually
cut so short as to give him something of the appearance of a clean Puritan. But in manners
he was no Puritan; nor yet in his mode of life. He was fond of society, and at an early period
of his age strove hard to shine in it. He was ambitious; and lived with the steady aim of making
the most of such advantages as fate and fortune had put in his way. Tudor was perhaps not superior
to Norman in point of intellect; but he was infinitely his superior in having early acquired
a knowledge how best to use such intellect as he had.

His education had been very miscellaneous, and disturbed by many causes, but yet not ineffective
or deficient. His father had been an officer in a cavalry regiment, with a fair fortune, which
he had nearly squandered in early life. He had taken Alaric when little more than an infant,
and a daughter, his only other child, to reside in Brussels. Mrs. Tudor was then dead, and
the remainder of the household had consisted of a French governess, a bonne, and a man-cook.
Here Alaric remained till he had perfectly acquired the French pronunciation, and very nearly
as perfectly forgotten the English. He was then sent to a private school in England, where
he remained till he was sixteen, returning home to Brussels but once during those years, when
he was invited to be present at his sister's marriage with a Belgian banker. At the age of
sixteen he lost his father, who, on dying, did not leave behind him enough of the world's wealth
to pay for his own burial. His half-pay of course died with him, and young Tudor was literally
destitute.

His brother-in-law, the banker, paid for his half-year's schooling in England, and then removed
him to a German academy, at which it was bargained that he should teach English without remuneration,
and learn German without expense. Whether he taught much English may be doubtful, but he did
learn German thoroughly; and in that, as in most other transactions of his early life, certainly
got the best of the bargain which had been made for him.

At the age of twenty he was taken to the Brussels bank as a clerk; but here he soon gave visible
signs of disliking the drudgery which was exacted from him. Not that he disliked banking. He
would gladly have been a partner with ever so small a share, and would have trusted to himself
to increase his stake. But there is a limit to the good nature of brothers-in-law, even in
Belgium; and Alaric was quite aware that no such good luck as this could befall him, at any
rate until he had gone through many years of servile labour. His sister also, though sisterly
enough in her disposition to him, did not quite like having a brother employed as a clerk in
her husband's office. They therefore put their heads together, and, as the Tudors had good
family connexions in England, a nomination in the Weights and Measures was procured.

The nomination was procured; but when it was ascertained how very short a way this went towards
the attainment of the desired object, and how much more difficult it was to obtain Mr. Hardlines'
approval than the Board's favour, young Tudor's friends despaired, and recommended him to abandon
the idea, as, should he throw himself into the Thames, he might perhaps fall beyond the reach
of the waterman's hook. Alaric himself, however, had no such fears. He could not bring himself
to conceive that he could fail in being fit for a clerkship in a public office, and the result
of his examination proved at any rate that he had been right to try.

The close of his first year's life in London found him living in lodgings with Henry Norman.
At that time Norman's income was nearly three times as good as his own. To say that Tudor selected
his companion because of his income would be to ascribe unjustly to him vile motives and a
mean instinct. He had not done so. The two young men had been thrown, together by circumstances.
They worked at the same desk, liked each other's society, and each being alone in the world,
thereby not unnaturally came together. But it may probably be said that had Norman been as
poor as Tudor, Tudor might probably have shrunk from rowing in the same boat with him.

As it was they lived together and were fast allies; not the less so that they did not agree
as to many of their avocations. Tudor, at his friend's solicitation, had occasionally attempted
to pull an oar from Searle's slip to Battersea bridge. But his failure in this line was so
complete, and he had to encounter so much of Norman's raillery, which was endurable, and of
his instruction, which was unendurable, that he very soon gave up the pursuit. He was not more
successful with a racket; and keeping a horse was of course out of the question.

They had a bond of union in certain common friends whom they much loved, and with whom they
much associated. At least these friends soon became common to them. The acquaintance originally
belonged to Norman, and he had first cemented his friendship with Tudor by introducing him
at the house of Mrs. Woodward. Since he had done so, the one young man was there nearly as
much as the other.

Who and what the Woodwards were shall be told in a subsequent chapter. As they have to play
as important a part in the tale about to be told as our two friends of the Weights and Measures,
it would not be becoming to introduce them at the end of this.

As regards Alaric Tudor it need only be further said, by way of preface, of him as of Harry
Norman, that the faults of his character must be made to declare themselves in the course of
our narrative.

CHAPTER II

THE INTERNAL NAVIGATION

The London world, visitors as well as residents, are well acquainted also with Somerset House;
and it is moreover tolerably well known that Somerset House is a nest of public offices, which
are held to be of less fashionable repute than those situated in the neighbourhood of Downing
Street, but are not so decidedly plebeian as the Custom House, Excise, and Post Office.

But there is one branch of the Civil Service located in Somerset House, which has little else
to redeem it from the lowest depths of official vulgarity than the ambiguous respectability
of its material position. This is the office of the Commissioners of Internal Navigation. The
duties to be performed have reference to the preservation of canal banks, the tolls to be levied
at locks, and disputes with the Admiralty as to points connected with tidal rivers. The rooms
are dull and dark, and saturated with the fog which rises from the river, and their only ornament
is here and there some dusty model of an improved barge. Bargees not unfrequently scuffle with
hobnailed shoes through the passages, and go in and out, leaving behind them a smell of tobacco,
to which the denizens of the place are not unaccustomed.

Indeed, the whole office is apparently infected with a leaven of bargedom. Not a few of the
men are employed from time to time in the somewhat lethargic work of inspecting the banks and
towing- paths of the canals which intersect the country. This they generally do seated on a
load of hay, or perhaps of bricks, in one of those long, ugly, shapeless boats, which are to
be seen congregating in the neighbourhood of Brentford. So seated, they are carried along at
the rate of a mile and a half an hour, and usually while away the time in gentle converse with
the man at the rudder, or in silent abstraction over a pipe.

But the dullness of such a life as this is fully atoned for by the excitement of that which
follows it in London. The men of the Internal Navigation are known to be fast, nay, almost
furious in their pace of living; not that they are extravagant in any great degree, a fault
which their scale of salaries very generally forbids; but they are one and all addicted to
Coal Holes and Cider Cellars; they dive at midnight hours into Shades, and know all the back
parlours of all the public-houses in the neighbourhood of the Strand. Here they leave messages
for one another, and call the girl at the bar by her Christian name. They are a set of men
endowed with sallow complexions, and they wear loud clothing, and spend more money in gin-and-water
than in gloves.

The establishment is not unusually denominated the 'Infernal Navigation', and the gentlemen
employed are not altogether displeased at having it so called. The 'Infernal Navvies', indeed,
rather glory in the name. The navvies of Somerset House are known all over London, and there
are those who believe that their business has some connexion with the rivers or railroads of
that bourne from whence no traveller returns. Looking, however, from their office windows into
the Thames, one might be tempted to imagine that the infernal navigation with which they are
connected is not situated so far distant from the place of their labours.

The spirit who guards the entrance into this elysium is by no means so difficult to deal with
as Mr. Hardlines. And it was well that it was so some few years since for young Charley Tudor,
a cousin of our friend Alaric; for Charley Tudor could never have passed muster at the Weights
and Measures. Charles Tudor, the third of the three clerks alluded to in our title-page, is
the son of a clergyman, who has a moderate living on the Welsh border, in Shropshire. Had he
known to what sort of work he was sending his son, he might probably have hesitated before
he accepted for him a situation in the Internal Navigation Office. He was, however, too happy
in getting it to make many inquiries as to its nature. We none of us like to look a gift-horse
in the mouth. Old Mr. Tudor knew that a clerkship in the Civil Service meant, or should mean,
a respectable maintenance for life, and having many young Tudors to maintain himself, he was
only too glad to find one of them provided for.

Charley Tudor was some few years younger than his cousin Alaric when he came up to town, and
Alaric had at that time some three or four years' experience of London life. The examination
at the Internal Navigation was certainly not to be so much dreaded as that at the Weights and
Measures; but still there was an examination; and Charley, who had not been the most diligent
of schoolboys, approached it with great dread after a preparatory evening passed with the assistance
of his cousin and Mr. Norman.

Exactly at ten in the morning he walked into the lobby of his future workshop, and found no
one yet there but two aged seedy messengers. He was shown into a waiting-room, and there he
remained for a couple of hours, during which every clerk in the establishment came to have
a look at him. At last he was ushered into the Secretary's room.

'Ah!' said the Secretary, 'your name is Tudor, isn't it?'

Charley confessed to the fact.

'Yea,' said the Secretary, 'I have heard about you from Sir Gilbert de Salop.' Now Sir Gilbert
de Salop was the great family friend of this branch of the Tudors. But Charley, finding that
no remark suggested itself to him at this moment concerning Sir Gilbert, merely said, 'Yes, sir.'

'And you wish to serve the Queen?' said the Secretary.

Charley, not quite knowing whether this was a joke or not, said that he did.

'Quite right--it is a very fair ambition,' continued the great official functionary--'quite
right--but, mind you, Mr. Tudor, if you come to us you must come to work. I hope you like hard
work; you should do so, if you intend to remain with us.'

Charley said that he thought he did rather like hard work. Hereupon a senior clerk standing
by, though a man not given to much laughter, smiled slightly, probably in pity at the unceasing
labour to which the youth was about to devote himself.

'The Internal Navigation requires great steadiness, good natural abilities, considerable education,
and--and--and no end of application. Come, Mr. Tudor, let us see what you can do.' And so saying,
Mr. Oldeschole, the Secretary, motioned him to sit down at an office table opposite to himself.

Charley did as he was bid, and took from the hands of his future master an old, much-worn quill
pen, with which the great man had been signing minutes.

'Now,' said the great man, 'just copy the few first sentences of that leading article--either
one will do,' and he pushed over to him a huge newspaper.

To tell the truth, Charley did not know what a leading article was, and so he sat abashed,
staring at the paper.

'Why don't you write?' asked the Secretary.

'Where shall I begin, sir?' stammered poor Charley, looking piteously into the examiner's face.

'God bless my soul! there; either of those leading articles,' and leaning over the table, the
Secretary pointed to a particular spot.

Hereupon Charley began his task in a large, ugly, round hand, neither that of a man nor of
a boy, and set himself to copy the contents of the paper. 'The name of Pacifico stinks in the
nostril of the British public. It is well known to all the world how sincerely we admire the
versitility of Lord Palmerston's genius; how cordially we simpathize with his patriotic energies.
But the admiration which even a Palmerston inspires must have a bound, and our simpathy may
be called on too far. When we find ourselves asked to pay--'. By this time Charley had half
covered the half-sheet of foolscap which had been put before him, and here at the word 'pay'
he unfortunately suffered a large blot of ink to fall on the paper.

'That won't do, Mr. Tudor, that won't do--come, let us look,' and stretching over again, the
Secretary took up the copy.

'Oh dear! oh dear! this is very bad; versatility with an 'i!'- sympathy with an 'i!' sympathize
with an 'i!' Why, Mr. Tudor, you must be very fond of 'i's' down in Shropshire.'

Charley looked sheepish, but of course said nothing.

'And I never saw a viler hand in my life. Oh dear, oh dear, I must send you back to Sir Gilbert.
Look here, Snape, this will never do--never do for the Internal Navigation, will it?'

Snape, the attendant senior clerk, said, as indeed he could not help saying, that the writing
was very bad.

'I never saw worse in my life,' said the Secretary. 'And now, Mr. Tudor, what do you know of
arithmetic?'

Charley said that he thought he knew arithmetic pretty well;--'at least some of it,' he modestly
added.

'Some of it!' said the Secretary, slightly laughing. 'Well, I'll tell you what--this won't
do at all;' and he took the unfortunate manuscript between his thumb and forefinger. 'You had
better go home and endeavour to write something a little better than this. Mind, if it is not
very much better it won't do. And look here; take care that you do it yourself. If you bring
me the writing of any one else, I shall be sure to detect you. I have not any more time now;
as to arithmetic, we'll examine you in 'some of it' to- morrow.'

So Charley, with a faint heart, went back to his cousin's lodgings and waited till the two
friends had arrived from the Weights and Measures. The men there made a point of staying up
to five o'clock, as is the case with all model officials, and it was therefore late before
he could get himself properly set to work. But when they did arrive, preparations for calligraphy
were made on a great scale; a volume of Gibbon was taken down, new quill pens, large and small,
and steel pens by various makers were procured; cream-laid paper was provided, and ruled lines
were put beneath it. And when this was done, Charley was especially cautioned to copy the spelling
as well as the wording.

He worked thus for an hour before dinner, and then for three hours in the evening, and produced
a very legible copy of half a chapter of the 'Decline and Fall.'

'I didn't think they examined at all at the Navigation,' said Norman.

'Well, I believe it's quite a new thing,' said Alaric Tudor. 'The schoolmaster must be abroad
with a vengeance, if he has got as far as that.'

And then they carefully examined Charley's work, crossed his t's, dotted his i's, saw that
his spelling was right, and went to bed.

Again, punctually at ten o'clock, Charley presented himself at the Internal Navigation; and
again saw the two seedy old messengers warming themselves at the lobby fire. On this occasion
he was kept three hours in the waiting-room, and some of the younger clerks ventured to come
and speak to him. At length Mr. Snape appeared, and desired the acolyte to follow him. Charley,
supposing that he was again going to the awful Secretary, did so with a palpitating heart.
But he was led in another direction into a large room, carrying his manuscript neatly rolled
in his hand. Here Mr. Snape introduced him to five other occupants of the chamber; he, Mr.
Snape himself, having a separate desk there, being, in official parlance, the head of the room.
Charley was told to take a seat at a desk, and did so, still thinking that the dread hour of
his examination was soon to come. His examination, however, was begun and over. No one ever
asked for his calligraphic manuscript, and as to his arithmetic, it may be presumed that his
assurance that he knew 'some of it,' was deemed to be adequate evidence of sufficient capacity.
And in this manner, Charley Tudor became one of the Infernal Navvies.

He was a gay-hearted, thoughtless, rollicking young lad, when he came up to town; and it may
therefore be imagined that he easily fell into the peculiar ways and habits of the office.
A short bargee's pilot-coat, and a pipe of tobacco, were soon familiar to him; and he had not
been six months in London before he had his house-of-call in a cross lane running between Essex
Street and Norfolk Street. 'Mary, my dear, a screw of bird's-eye!' came quite habitually to
his lips; and before his fist year was out, he had volunteered a song at the Buckingham Shades.

The assurance made to him on his first visit to the office by Mr. Secretary Oldeschole, that
the Internal Navigation was a place of herculean labours, had long before this time become
matter to him of delightful ridicule. He had found himself to be one of six young men, who
habitually spent about five hours a day together in the same room, and whose chief employment
was to render the life of the wretched Mr. Snape as unendurable as possible. There were copies
to be written, and entries to be made, and books to be indexed. But these things were generally
done by some extra hand, as to the necessity of whose attendance for such purpose Mr. Snape
was forced to certify. But poor Snape knew that he had no alternative. He rule six unruly young
navvies! There was not one of them who did not well know how to make him tremble in his shoes.

Poor Mr. Snape had selected for his own peculiar walk in life a character for evangelical piety.
Whether he was a hypocrite--as all the navvies averred--or a man sincere as far as one so weak
could accomplish sincerity, it is hardly necessary for us to inquire. He was not by nature
an ill-natured man, but he had become by education harsh to those below him, and timid and
cringing with those above. In the former category must by no means be included the six young
men who were nominally under his guidance. They were all but acknowledged by him as his superiors.
Ignorant as they were, they could hardly be more so than he. Useless as they were, they did
as much for the public service as he did. He sometimes complained of them; but it was only
when their misconduct had been so loud as to make it no longer possible that he should not do so.

Mr. Snape being thus by character and predilection a religious man, and having on various occasions
in olden days professed much horror at having his ears wounded by conversation which was either
immoral or profane, it had of course become the habitual practice of the navvies to give continual
utterance to every description of ribaldry and blasphemy for his especial edification. Doubtless
it may be concluded from the habits of the men, that even without such provocation, their talk
would have exceeded the yea, yea, and nay, nay, to which young men should confine themselves.
But they especially concerted schemes of blasphemy and dialogues of iniquity for Mr. Snape's
particular advantage; and continued daily this disinterested amusement, till at last an idea
got abroad among them that Mr. Snape liked it. Then they changed their tactics and canted through
their noses in the manner which they imagined to be peculiar to methodist preachers. So on
the whole, Mr. Snape had an uneasy life of it at the Internal Navigation.

Into all these malpractices Charley Tudor plunged headlong. And how should it have been otherwise?
How can any youth of nineteen or twenty do other than consort himself with the daily companions
of his usual avocations? Once and again, in one case among ten thousand, a lad may be found
formed of such stuff, that he receives neither the good nor the bad impulses of those around
him. But such a one is a lapsus naturae. He has been born without the proper attributes of
youth, or at any rate, brought up so as to have got rid of them.

Such, a one, at any rate, Charley Tudor was not. He was a little shocked at first by the language
he heard; but that feeling soon wore off. His kind heart, also, in the first month of his novitiate,
sympathized with the daily miseries of Mr. Snape; but he also soon learnt to believe that Mr.
Snape was a counterfeit, and after the first half year could torture him with as much gusto
as any of his brethren. Alas! no evil tendency communicates itself among young men more quickly
than cruelty. Those infernal navvies were very cruel to Mr. Snape.

And yet young Tudor was a lad of a kindly heart, of a free, honest, open disposition, deficient
in no proportion of mind necessary to make an estimable man. But he was easily malleable, and
he took at once the full impression of the stamp to which he was subjected. Had he gone into
the Weights and Measures, a hypothesis which of course presumes a total prostration of the
intellects and energy of Mr. Hardlines, he would have worked without a groan from ten till
five, and have become as good a model as the best of them. As it was, he can be hardly said
to have worked at all, soon became facile princeps in the list of habitual idlers, and was
usually threatened once a quarter with dismissal, even from that abode of idleness, in which
the very nature of true work was unknown.

Some tidings of Charley's doings in London, and non-doings at the Internal Navigation, of course
found their way to the Shropshire parsonage. His dissipation was not of a very costly kind;
but L90 per annum will hardly suffice to afford an ample allowance of gin-and-water and bird's-eye
tobacco, over and above the other wants of a man's life. Bills arrived there requiring payment;
and worse than this, letters also came through Sir Gilbert de Salop from Mr. Oldeschole, the
Secretary, saying that young Tudor was disgracing the office, and lowering the high character
of the Internal Navigation; and that he must be removed, unless he could be induced to alter
his line of life, &c.

Urgent austere letters came from the father, and fond heart- rending appeals from the mother.
Charley's heart was rent. It was, at any rate, a sign in him that he was not past hope of grace,
that he never laughed at these monitions, that he never showed such letters to his companions,
never quizzed his 'governor's' lectures, or made merry over the grief of his mother. But if
it be hard for a young man to keep in the right path when he has not as yet strayed out of
it, how much harder is it to return to it when he has long since lost the track! It was well
for the father to write austere letters, well for the mother to make tender appeals, but Charley
could not rid himself of his companions, nor of his debts, nor yet even of his habits. He could
not get up in the morning and say that he would at once be as his cousin Alaric, or as his
cousin's friend, Mr. Norman. It is not by our virtues or our vices that we are judged, even
by those who know us best; but by such credit for virtues or for vices as we may have acquired.
Now young Tudor's credit for virtue was very slight, and he did not know how to extend it.

At last papa and mamma Tudor came up to town to make one last effort to save their son; and
also to save, on his behalf, the valuable official appointment which he held. He had now been
three years in his office, and his salary had risen to L110 per annum. L110 per annum was worth
saving if it could be saved. The plan adopted by Mrs. Tudor was that of beseeching their cousin
Alaric to take Charley under his especial wing.

When Charley first arrived in town, the fact of Alaric and Norman living together had given
the former a good excuse for not offering to share his lodgings with his cousin. Alaric, with
the advantage in age of three or four years--at that period of life the advantage lies in that
direction--with his acquired experience of London life, and also with all the wondrous eclat
of the Weights and Measures shining round him, had perhaps been a little too unwilling to take
by the hand a rustic cousin who was about to enter life under the questionable auspices of
the Internal Navigation. He had helped Charley to transcribe the chapter of Gibbon, and had,
it must be owned, lent him from time to time a few odd pounds in his direst necessities. But
their course in life had hitherto been apart. Of Norman, Charley had seen less even than of
his cousin.

And now it became a difficult question with Alaric how he was to answer the direct appeal made
to him by Mrs. Tudor;--'Pray, pray let him live with you, if it be only for a year, Alaric,'
the mother had said, with the tears running down her cheeks. 'You are so good, so discreet,
so clever--you can save him.' Alaric promised, or was ready to promise, anything else, but
hesitated as to the joint lodgings. 'How could he manage it,' said he, 'living, as he was,
with another man? He feared that Mr. Norman would not accede to such an arrangement. As for
himself, he would do anything but leave his friend Norman.' To tell the truth, Alaric thought
much, perhaps too much, of the respectability of those with whom he consorted. He had already
begun to indulge ambitious schemes, already had ideas stretching even beyond the limits of
the Weights and Measures, and fully intended to make the very most of himself.

Mrs. Tudor, in her deep grief, then betook herself to Mr. Norman, though with that gentleman
she had not even the slightest acquaintance. With a sulking heart, with a consciousness of
her unreasonableness, but with the eloquence of maternal sorrow, she made her request. Mr.
Norman heard her out with all the calm propriety of the Weights and Measures, begged to have
a day to consider, and then acceded to the request.

'I think we ought to do it,' said he to Alaric. The mother's tears had touched his heart, and
his sense of duty had prevailed. Alaric, of course, could now make no further objection, and
thus Charley the Navvy became domesticated with his cousin Alaric and Harry Norman.

The first great question to be settled, and it is a very great question with a young man, was
that of latch-key or no latch-key. Mrs. Richards, the landlady, when she made ready the third
bedroom for the young gentleman, would, as was her wont in such matters, have put a latchkey
on the toilet-table as a matter of course, had she not had some little conversation with Mamma
Tudor regarding her son. Mamma Tudor had implored and coaxed, and probably bribed Mrs. Richards
to do something more than 'take her son in and do for him'; and Mrs. Richards, as her first
compliance with these requests, had kept the latch-key in her own pocket. So matters went on
for a week; but when Mrs. Richards found that her maidservant was never woken by Mr. Charley's
raps after midnight, and that she herself was obliged to descend in her dressing-gown, she
changed her mind, declared to herself that it was useless to attempt to keep a grown gentleman
in leading- strings, and put the key on the table on the second Monday morning.

As none of the three men ever dined at home, Alaric and Norman having clubs which they frequented,
and Charley eating his dinner at some neighbouring dining-house, it may be imagined that this
change of residence did our poor navvy but little good. It had, however, a salutary effect
on him, at any rate at first. He became shamed into a quieter and perhaps cleaner mode of dressing
himself; he constrained himself to sit down to breakfast with his monitors at half-past eight,
and was at any rate so far regardful of Mrs. Richards as not to smoke in his bedroom, and to
come home sober enough to walk upstairs without assistance every night for the first month.

