It was at the time of the high-tide of minstrelsy in this country--1870 to 1880. Dozens of
minstrel companies, ranging from bands of real negroes recruited in the South to aggregations
of white men who blacked their faces, traveled about the country. The minstrel was the direct
product of the slave-time singer and entertainer. His fame was recognized the world over. The
best audiences at home, and royalty abroad, paid tribute to his talents. Out of the minstrel
ranks of those days emerged some of the best known of our modern stars--men like Francis Wilson,
Nat Goodwin, Henry E. Dixey, Montgomery and Stone, William H. Crane, and scores of others.

One of the most famous organizations of the time was Charles Callender's Original Georgia Minstrels,
hailing from Macon, Georgia, composed entirely of negroes and headed by the famous Billy Kersands.
Ahead of this show was a mulatto advance-agent, Charles Hicks. He did very well in the North,
but when he got down South he faced the inevitable prejudice against doing business with a
negro. Callender needed some one to succeed him. A man whom Gustave Frohman had once befriended,
knowing of his intense desire to enter the profession, recommended him for the position, and
he got it.

All was excitement in the Frohman family. At last the fortunes of one member were definitely
committed to the theater, and although it was a negro minstrel show, it meant a definite connection
with public entertainment.

No one, not even Gustave himself, felt the enthusiasm so keenly as did little Charles, then
twelve years old. He buzzed about the fortunate brother.

"Do you think you can get me a job as programmer with your show?" he asked.

"No," answered the new advance-agent. "Don't start in the business until you can be an agent
or manager."

On August 2, 1872, Gustave Frohman started to Buffalo to go ahead of the Callender Minstrels.
Charles followed his brother's career with eager interest, and he longed for the time when
he would have some connection with the business that held such thrall for him.

Life now lagged more than ever for Charles. He chafed at the service in the store; he detested
school; his one great desire was to earn money and share in the support of the family. His
father urged him to prepare for the law.

"No," he said, "I won't be a lawyer. I want to deal with lots of people."

Charles frequently referred to Tony Pastor. "He's a big man," he would often say. "I would
like to do what he is doing."

A seething but unformed aspiration seemed to stir his youthful breast. Once he heard his eldest
brother recite some stanzas of Alexander Pope, in which the following line occurs:

The whole, the boundless continent is ours.

This line impressed the lad immensely. It became his favorite motto; he wrote it in his sister's
autograph-album; he spouted it on every occasion; it is still to be found in his first scrap-book
framed in round, boyish hand.

Now the singular thing about this sentiment is that he never quoted it correctly. It was a
life-long failing. His version--and it was strangely prophetic of his coming career--was:

The whole--the boundless earth--is mine.

Meanwhile, Daniel Frohman had gone from The Tribune to work in the office of The New York Graphic,
down in Park Place near Church Street. The Graphic was the aristocrat of newspapers--the first
illustrated daily ever published anywhere. With the usual family team-work, Daniel got Charles
a position with him in 1874. He was put in the circulation department at a salary of ten dollars
a week, his first regular wage. It was a position with which personality had much to do, for
one of the boy's chief tasks was to select a high type of newsboy equipped to sell a five-cent
daily. His genial manner won the boys to him and they became his loyal co-workers.

With amazing facility he mastered his task. Among other things, he had to count newspapers.
It was before the day of the machine enumerator, and the work had to be done by hand. Charles
developed such extraordinary swiftness that patrons in the office often stopped to watch him.
In throwing papers over the counter it was necessary to be accurate and positive, and here
came the first manifestation of his dogged determination. He never lost his cunning in counting
papers, and sometimes, when he was rich and famous, he would take a bundle of newspapers, to
help a newsboy in the street, and run through them with all his old skill and speed.

* * *

Though his fingers were in the newspapers, his heart yearned for the theater. This ambition
was heightened by the fact that his brother Daniel, having heeded the lure of Gustave, joined
the Callender Minstrels as advance-agent, while Gustave remained back with the show. Slowly
but surely the theater was annexing the Frohman boys. In the summer of 1874 Charles was drawn
into its charmed circle, and in a picturesque fashion.

It was the custom for minstrel companies and other theatrical combinations to rent theaters
outright during the dull summer months. The playhouses were glad to get the rental, and the
organizations could remain intact during what would otherwise be a period of disorganization
and loss. Gustave, therefore, took Hooley's Theater in Brooklyn for summer minstrel headquarters,
and on a memorable morning in July Charles was electrified to receive the following letter
from him:

     You can begin your theatrical career in the box-office of Hooley's
     Theater in Brooklyn. Take a ferry and look at the theater. Hooley
     is going to rent it to us for the summer. Your work will begin as
     ticket-seller. You will have to sell 25, 50, and 75 cent tickets,
     and they will all be hard tickets, that is, no reserved seats. Get
     some pasteboard slips or a pack of cards and practise handling
     them. Your success will lie in the swiftness with which you can
     hand them out. With these rehearsals you will be able to do your
     work well and look like a professional.

Charles immediately bought a pack of the thickest playing-cards he could find and began to
practise with them. Soon he became an expert shuffler. Often he used his father's cigar counter
for a make-believe box-office sill, and across it he handed out the pasteboards to imaginary
patrons. A dozen times he went over to Brooklyn and gazed with eager expectancy at the old
theater, destined, by reason of his association with it, to be a historic landmark in the annals
of American amusement.

He wrote Gustave almost immediately:

I will be ready when the time comes.

That great moment arrived the first Monday in August, 1874. Charles could scarcely contain
his impatience. So well had the publicity work for the performance been done by the new advance-agent
that when the boy (he was just fourteen) raised the window of the box-office at seven o'clock
there was a long line waiting to buy tickets. The final word of injunction from Gustave was:

"Remember, Charley, you must be careful, because you will be personally responsible for any
shortage in cash when you balance up."

The house was sold out. When Gustave asked him, after the count-up, if he was short, the eager-faced
lad replied:

"I am not short--I am fifty cents over!"

"Then you can keep that as a reward for your good work," said Gustave.

Callender was on hand the opening night. He watched the boy in the box-office with, an amused
and lively interest. When Charles had finished selling tickets, Callender stepped up to him
with a smile on his face and said:

"Young fellow, I like your looks and your ways. You and I will be doing business some day."

During this engagement, and with the customary spirit of family co-operation, Gustave said
to Charles:

"You can give your sister Rachel all the pennies that come in at the Wednesday matinée." At
this engagement very little was expected in the way of receipts at a midweek matinée.

But Gustave did not reckon with Charles. With an almost uncanny sense of exploitation which
afterward enabled him to attract millions of theater-goers, the boy kept the brass-band playing
outside the theater half an hour longer than usual. This drew many children just home from
school, and they paid their way in pennies. The receipts, therefore, were unexpectedly large.
When sister Rachel came over that day her beaming brother filled her bag with coppers.

The summer of 1874 was a strenuous one for Charles Frohman. By day he worked in The Graphic
office, only getting off for the matinées; at night he was in the box-office at Hooley's in
Brooklyn, his smiling face beaming like a moon through the window. He was in his element at
last and supremely happy. When the season ended the Callender Minstrels resumed their tour
on the road and Charles went back to the routine of The Graphic undisturbed by the thrill of
the theater.

He was developing rapidly. Daily he became more efficient. The following year he was put in
charge of a branch office established by The Graphic in Philadelphia. Now came his second business
contact with the theater. Callender's Minstrels played an engagement at Wood's Museum, and
Daniel came on ahead to bill the show. Charles immediately offered his services. His advice
about the location of favorite "stands" was of great service in getting posters displayed to
the best advantage. It was the initial expression of what later amounted to a positive genius
in the art of well-directed bill-board posting.

While prowling around Philadelphia in search of amusement novelty--a desire that remained with
him all his life--Charles encountered a unique form of public entertainment which had considerable
vogue. It was Pepper's "Ghost Show," and was being shown in a small hall in Chestnut Street.

The "Ghost Show" was an illusion. The actors seemed to be on the stage. In reality, they were
under the stage, and their reflection was sent up by refracting mirrors. This enabled them
(in the sight of the audience) to appear and disappear in the most extraordinary fashion. People
apparently walked through one another, had their heads cut off, were shown with daggers plunged
in their breasts. The whole effect was weird and thrilling.

This show impressed Charles greatly, as the unusual invariably did. It gave him an idea. When
Charles Callender joined his minstrel show at Philadelphia, young Frohman went to him with
this proposition:

"I believe," he said with great earnestness, "that there is money in the 'Ghost Show.' The
trouble with it now is that it is not being properly advertised. If you will let me have a
hundred dollars, I will take charge of it and I think we can make some money out of it. It
won't interfere with my work with The Graphic."

Charles, who seldom left anything to chance, had already made an arrangement with the manager
of the show to become his advertising agent.

Callender, who liked the boy immensely, readily consented and gave him the required money,
thus embarking Charles on his first venture with any sort of capital.

Unfortunately, the show failed. Charles maintained that the Philadelphians lacked imagination,
but with his usual optimism he was certain that it would succeed on the road. When he approached
Callender again and offered to take it out on the road the minstrel magnate slapped him on
the shoulder and said:

"All right, my boy. If you say so, I believe you. You can take the show out and I'll back you."

Charles counseled with Gustave, who continued as his theatrical monitor. Eagerly he said:

"I've got a great chance. Callender is going to back me on the road with the 'Ghost Show.'"

"No," said Gustave, firmly, "your time has not come. Wait, as I told you before, until you
can go out ahead of a show as agent."

Bitter as was the ordeal, Charles took his brother's advice, and the "Ghost Show" was abandoned
to its fate.

II

EARLY HARDSHIPS ON THE ROAD

The Christmas of 1876 was not a particularly merry one for Charles Frohman. The ardent boy,
whose brief experience in Hooley's box-office had fastened the germ of the theater in his system,
chafed at the restraint that kept him at a routine task. But his deliverance was at hand.

Shortly before the close of the old year Gustave quit the Callender Minstrels. With a capital
of fifty-seven dollars he remained in Chicago, waiting for something to turn up. One day as
he sat in the lobby of the old Sherman House he was accosted by J. H. Wallick, an actor-manager
who had just landed in town with a theatrical combination headed by John Dillon, a well-known
Western comedian of the time. They were stranded and looking for a backer.

"Will you take charge of the company?" asked Wallick.

"I've only got fifty-seven dollars," said Gustave, "but I'll take a chance."

Between them they raised a little capital and started on a tour of the Middle West that was
destined to play a significant part in shaping the career of Charles. In the company besides
John Dillon were his wife, Louise Dillon (afterward the ingénue of Daniel Frohman's Lyceum
Company); George W. Stoddart, brother of J. H. Stoddart of A. M. Palmer's Company, his wife
and his daughter, Polly Stoddart, who married Neil Burgess; John F. Germon; Mrs. E. M. Post,
and Wesley Sisson. Their repertory consisted of two well-worn but always amusing plays, "Our
Boys" and "Married Life."

Gustave was to remain with the company until they reached Clinton, Iowa. After that he was
to go ahead while Wallick was to remain with the company. When Gustave was about to leave,
the company protested. He had won their confidence, and they threatened to strike. What to
do with Wallick was the problem.

"Why not make him stage-manager?" suggested Dillon.

"All right," said Gustave, "but who is to go ahead of the show?"

The company was gathered on the stage of the Davis Opera House. Gustave scratched his head.
Then he turned quickly on the group of stage folk and said:

"I've got some one for you. I'll wire my brother Charles to come on and be advance-agent."

Thus it came about that from a little Iowa town there flashed back to New York on a memorable
morning in January, 1877, the following telegram from Gustave to Charles Frohman:

     Your time has come at last. Am wiring money for ticket to St.
     Paul, where you begin as agent for John Dillon. Will meet you 2
     A.M. at Winona, where you change cars and where I will instruct.

Charles happened to be at home when this telegram came. It was the first he had ever received.
With trembling hands he tore it open, his rosy face broke into a seraphic smile, and the tears
came into his eyes. He rushed to his mother, threw his arms around her, and gasped:

"At last I'm in the business!"

He lost no time in starting. With a single grip-sack, which contained his modest wardrobe,
the eager boy started on his first railroad journey of any length into the great West. It was
the initial step of what, from this time on, was to be a continuous march of ever-widening
importance.

Begrimed but radiant, the boy stepped from a day-coach at two o'clock in the morning at Winona.
No scene could have been more desolate. Save for the station-master and a solitary brakeman
there was only one other person on hand, and that individual was the faithful Gustave, who
advanced swiftly through the gloom and greeted his brother enthusiastically.

Charles was all excitement. He had not slept a wink. It was perhaps the longest and most irksome
journey he ever took. He was bubbling with the desire to get to work.

The two brothers went to a hotel where Gustave had a room, and there they sat for four hours.
It is a picture well worth keeping in mind: the pleased older boy, eager to get his brother
started right; the younger lad all ears, and his eyes big with wonder and anticipation. There
was no thought of food or rest. Gustave was enthusiastic about the company. He said to his brother:

"Why, Charley, we've got real New York actors, and our leading lady, Louise Dillon, has a genuine
sealskin coat. That coat will get us out of any town. You've got no 'Ghost Show' amateurs to
handle now, but real actors and actresses."

Then came an announcement that startled the boy, for Gustave continued:

"Your salary is to be twenty-five dollars a week and hotel bills, but you must not spend more
than one dollar and a half a day for meals and room."

In this dingy room of an obscure hotel in a country town Charles Frohman got his first instructions
in practical theatrical work. Perhaps the most important of this related to bill-posting. In
those days it was a tradition in theatrical advertising that whoever did the most effective
bill-posting in a town got the audience. Most of the publicity was done with posters. An advance-agent
had to be a practical bill-poster himself. To get the most conspicuous sites for bills and
to keep those bills up until the attraction played became the chief task of the advance-agent.
The provincial bill-posters were fickle and easily swayed. The agent with the most persuasive
personality, sometimes with the greatest drinking capacity, won the day.

All this advice, and much more, was poured by Gustave into the willing ears of the youthful
Charles. No injunction laid on that keen-eyed boy in the gray dawn of that historic morning
back in the 'seventies was more significant than these words from his elder brother:

"Your success in handling the bill-poster does not lie through a barroom door. Give him all
the passes he wants, but never buy him a drink."

That those words sank deeply into Charles Frohman is shown by the fact that he seldom drank
liquor. His chief tipple through all the coming crowded years was never stronger than sarsaparilla,
soda-water, or lemonade.

The task ahead of Charles would have staggered any but the most dauntless enthusiasm. Among
other things, as Gustave discovered, there was no route for the company after St. Paul, which
was to be played the following week.

"You must discover new towns and bill them," he said. "Get what printing you want. The printers
have been instructed to fill orders from you."

The hours sped on. Charles asked a thousand questions, and Gustave filled him with facts as
dawn broke and day came. It was nearly seven o'clock, time for his train for St. Paul to leave.
Charles would not hear of having breakfast. He was too full of desire to get to work.

Among other things, Charles carried a letter from Gustave to Wallick, who was temporarily ahead
of the show, which said:

     This is my brother Charles, who will take the advance in your
     place.

The first word that came from the young advance-agent announced action, for he wired:

     All right with Wallick. Have discovered River Falls.

River Falls, it happened, had been "discovered" before and abandoned, but Charles thought he
was making route history.

Charles immediately set to work with the extraordinary energy that always characterized him.
The chief bill-poster in St. Paul was named Haines. Charles captured him with his engaging
smile, and he became a willing slave. It was Haines who taught him how to post bills. Later
on when Gustave arrived with the show, he spoke of the boy with intense pride. He said:

"I have taught your brother Charley how to post bills. He took to it like a duck to water.
He didn't mind how much paste he spattered over himself. His one desire was to know how to
do the job thoroughly. I am going to make him the greatest theatrical agent in the world."

Curiously enough, Haines lived to be a very old man, and in the later years of his life he
was able to stick up the twenty-eight-sheet stands that bore in large type the name of the
little chubby protégé he had introduced to the art of bill-posting back in the long ago.

At St. Paul Charles had opposition--a big musical event at Ingersoll Hall--and this immediately
tested his resource. He got his printing posted in the best places, went around to the newspaper
offices and got such good notices that John Dillon was inspired to remark that he had never
had such efficient advance work. It is interesting to remember that at this time Charles Frohman
was not yet eighteen years old.

Now came the first evidence of that initiative which was such a conspicuous trait in the young
man. He had come back to see the performances of his company, and had watched them with swelling
pride. Several times he said, and with pardonable importance:

"What we need is a new play. We must have something fresh to advertise."

The net result of this suggestion was that his brother obtained the manuscript of "Lemons,"
a comedy that, under the title of "Wedlock for Seven," had been first produced at Augustin
Daly's New Fifth Avenue Theater in New York. A copy of the play was sent on to Charles to enable
him to prepare the presswork for it, and it was the first play manuscript he ever read. "Lemons"
vindicated Charles's suggestion, because it added to the strength of the repertory and brought
considerable new business.

Charles took an infinite pride in his work. He was eager for suggestions, he worked early and
late, and when the season closed at the end of June he was a full-fledged and experienced advance-agent.
With his brother he reached Chicago July 4th. In the lobby of Hooley's Theater he was introduced
to R. M. Hooley, who, after various hardships, again controlled the theater which bore his
name, now Powers' Theater. Out of that chance meeting came a long friendship and a connection
that helped in later years to give Charles Frohman his first spectacular success, for it was
Mr. Hooley who helped to back "Shenandoah."

On July 5th, six months after he had left the East for his first start, Charles appeared at
his mother's home in New York, none the worse for his first experience on the road.

* * *

Charles was soon eager for the next season. Gustave had signed a contract with John Dillon
to take him out again, this time as part owner of the company. He and George Stoddart agreed
to put up two hundred and fifty dollars each to launch the tour of the Stoddart Comedy Company
with John Dillon as star. Charles was to continue as advance-agent.

It was a long summer for the boy. When August arrived and the time came to start west there
was a financial council of war. Gustave counted on getting his capital from members of the
family, but no money was forthcoming. Daniel had received no salary from Callender, and the
great road project seemed on the verge of failure. Charles was disconsolate. But the mother
of the boys, ever mindful of their interest, said, in her serene way:

"I can get enough money to send you to Chicago and I will put up some lunches for you."

Charles was eagerly impatient to start. He nagged at his brother:

"Gus, when do we start for Chicago? Do we walk?"

He was sent down-town to find out the cheapest route, and he returned in great excitement, saying:

"The cheapest way is over the Baltimore & Ohio, second class, but it is the longest ride. We
can ride in the day-coach, and even if we have no place to wash we will get to Chicago, and
that is the main thing."

When they reached Chicago the first of the long chain of disasters that was to attend them
on this enterprise developed.

Stoddart was penniless. The two hundred and fifty dollars that he expected to contribute to
the capital of the new combination was swept away in the failure of the Fidelity Bank. He had
looked forward to Gustave for help, and all the while Gustave, on that long, toilsome journey
west, was hoping that his partner would provide the first railroad fares. So they sat down
and pooled their woes, wondering how they could start their tour, with Charles as an interested
listener.

Every now and then he would chirp up with the question:

"How do I get out of town?"

Finally Gustave, always resourceful, said:

"You don't need any money, Charley. I've got railroad passes for you, and you can give the
hotels orders on me for your board and lodging."

It was a custom in those days for advance-agents to give orders for their obligations--hotel,
rent of hall, bill-posting, and baggage--upon the company that followed. Hotels in particular
were willing to accept orders on the treasurer of a theatrical company about to play a date,
because, in the event of complete failure, there was always baggage to seize and hold.

So, armed with passes and with the optimism of youth and anticipation, Charles set forth on
what became in many respects the most memorable road experience in his life. The first town
he billed was Streator, Illinois. Then he hurried on to Ottawa and Peoria, where they were
to play during fair week, which was the big week of the year. Misfortune descended at Streator,
for despite the lavish display of posters and the ample advance notice that Charles lured the
local editors into publishing, the total receipts on the first night were seventy-seven dollars.
This, and more, had already been pledged before the curtain went up, and Gustave was not even
able to pay John Dillon his seven dollars and seventy cents, which represented his ten per
cent, of the gross receipts.

By "traveling on their baggage," which was one of the expedients of the time and a custom which
has not entirely passed out of use, the company got to Ottawa, where Charles joined them. Here,
in a comic circumstance, he first developed the amazing influence that he was able to exert
on people.

Although an admirable actor with a large following and the most delightful and companionable
of men, John Dillon had one unfortunate failing. He was addicted to drink, and, regardless
of consequences, he would periodically succumb to this weakness. At Ottawa, the town crowded
with visitors for the annual fair, Dillon fell from grace. The bill for the evening was "Lemons,"
and there was every indication that the house would be sold out. The receipts were badly needed,
too.

Late in the afternoon came the terrifying news that Dillon lay stupefied from liquor in his
room. Everybody save Charles was in despair. Dillon had conceived a great fancy for Charles,
and he was deputized to take the actor in hand, get him to the theater, and coerce him through
the play.

Charles responded nobly. He aroused the star, took him to the theater in a carriage, and stood
in the wings throughout the whole performance, coaching and inspiring his intoxicated star.
By an amusing circumstance, Dillon was required to play a drunken scene in "Lemons." He performed
this part with so much realism that the audience gave him a great ovation. The real savior
of that performance was the chubby lad who stood in the wings with beating heart, fearful every
moment that Dillon would succumb.

* * *

New and heavier responsibilities now faced Charles Frohman. The company was booked to play
a week in Memphis, Tennessee, the longest and most important stand of the tour. In those days
the printers who supplied the traveling companies with advertising matter were powers to be
reckoned with. When the supply of printing was cut off the company was helpless.

Charles H. McConnell, of the National Printing Company, who supplied the Stoddart Company with
paper, was none too confident of the success of that organization. When he heard of the Memphis
engagement he insisted that Gustave, who was older and more experienced, be sent ahead to pave
the way. Charles was sent back to manage the company, and now came his first attempt at handling
actors. He rose to the emergency with all his characteristic ingenuity.

He began at Champaign, Illinois. The first test of his resource came at a one-night stand--Waupaca,
Iowa--where "Lemons" was billed as a feature. The prospects for a big house were good. Board
and railroad fare seemed assured, when just before supper-time John F. Germon, one of the company,
approached Charles in great perturbation.

"We can't play to-night. Mrs. Post is sick."

Mrs. Post played the part of the old woman in the play, and it was a very important rôle.

Charles Frohman only smiled, as he always did in an emergency. Then he said to Germon:

"You're a member of the well-known Germon family, aren't you? Then live up to its reputation
and play the part yourself."

"But how about my mustache?" asked Germon.

"I will pay for having it shaved off," replied Frohman.

The net result was that Germon sacrificed his mustache, played the part acceptably without
any one in the audience discovering that he was a man masquerading as an old woman. Charles
put Wallick, who was acting as stage-manager, in Germon's part. Thus the house was saved and
the company was able to proceed.

With his attractive ways and eternal thoughtfulness Charles captivated the company. He supplied
the women with candy and bought peanuts for the men. On that trip he developed his fondness
for peanuts that never forsook him. He almost invariably carried a bag in his pocket. When
he could not get peanuts he took to candy.

A great friendship struck up between Frohman and Stoddart, who, in a way, was a character.
He played the violin, and when business was bad and the company got in the dumps Stoddart added
to their misfortunes by playing doleful tunes on his fiddle. But that fiddle had a virtue not
to be despised, because it was Stoddart's bank. In its hollow box he secreted his modest savings,
and in more than one emergency they were drawn on for company bed and board. When the organization
reached Memphis Charles had so completely won the affections of the company that they urged
him to stay on with them. But business was business, and he had to go on in advance.

Charles now went ahead to "bill" Texas. The reason for the expedition was this:

In Memphis business was so bad that the manager of the theater there advised Gustave to send
the company through Texas, where, he assured them, there would be no opposition, and they would
have the state to themselves. This advice proved to be only too true, for the company not only
had the state to itself, but the state for a time held the company fast--in the unwilling bonds
of financial misfortune.

The plan was to play the best towns in Texas and then go back through the Middle West, where
John Dillon had a strong following, and where it was hoped the season could close with full
pockets. Up to this time the company had received salaries with some degree of regularity.
But from this time on they were to have a constantly diminishing acquaintance with money, for
hard luck descended upon them the moment they crossed the frontiers of the Lone Star State.

It was about this time that Charles Callender, at the solicitation of Gustave, purchased an
interest in the Stoddart Comedy Company for a hundred-dollar bill. This bill was given to Charles
as a "prop." In those days the financial integrity of the legitimate theatrical combination
was sometimes questioned by hard-hearted hotel-keepers. The less esthetic "variety" troupes,
minstrel shows, and circuses enjoyed a much higher credit. An advance-agent like Charles sometimes
found difficulty in persuading the hotel people to accept orders on the company's treasurer.

With characteristic enterprise Charles used the hundred-dollar bill as a symbol of solvency.
He flashed it on hotel-keepers and railway agents in the careless way that inspired confidence,
and, what was more to the point, credit. He carried this hundred-dollar bill for nearly a month.
Often when asked to pay his board bill he would produce the note and ask for change. Before
the startled clerk could draw his breath he would add:

"Perhaps it might be best if I gave you an order on the treasurer."

This always served to get him out of town without spending cash for hotel bills.

Texas was still a rough country, and Charles's reckless display of the hundred-dollar bill
once gave him a narrow escape from possible death. He had made the usual careless display of
wealth at a small hotel in Calvert. The bad man of the town witnessed the performance and immediately
began to shadow the young advance-agent. When Charles retired to his room he found, to his
dismay, that there was no lock on the door. He had a distinct feeling that a robbery would
be attempted, so he quietly left the hotel and spent the night riding back and forth on the
train between Calvert and Dallas. This cost him nothing, for he had a pass.

At Galveston occurred an unexpected meeting. Daniel Frohman, who was ahead of Callender's Minstrels,
had arrived in town by boat from New Orleans (there being no railway connection then) to book
his show for the next week. On arriving at the Tremont Opera House he was surprised to see
Charles writing press notices in the box-office.

"What are you doing here?" he asked. "I thought you were in Tennessee."

Charles walked to the window and said, with great pride, "We play here all next week."

"Have you got the whole week?" asked Daniel.

"Yes," was the reply.

"But can't you give me Monday or Tuesday night?" asked Daniel.

"Impossible," replied Charles, haughtily.

"All right," said Daniel, in friendly rivalry, "then I will have to hire Turner Hall and knock
you out for two nights with our brass-band parade."

Charles then came out into the lobby and confessed that his company was up against it, and
that it meant bread and butter and possibly the whole future of the company if he could only
play Galveston.

"We are coming here on our trunks," he said, "and we've got to get some money."

Daniel immediately relented. He arranged with the railroad to delay the train and thus make
a connection which would carry his company on through to the interior. He booked Galveston
for the second week following. This left the week in question free to Charles, who breathed easier.

Charles now went on and billed Sherman, Houston, and Dallas. At Dallas the hard luck that had
gripped the company the moment it left Memphis descended more vigorously than before. Dillon
not only fell from grace again, but disappeared. Gustave Frohman had vowed that he would discharge
him if he went on another spree, and he kept his word. They were in a real predicament, with
star gone, business bad, and practically stranded a thousand miles from home.

Charles, who frequently came back to join the company, was the one bright spot of those precarious
days, for he never lost his optimism or his smile.

"What we need," he said at a council of war in Dallas, "is a new play. I have been reading
in the New York Clipper about one called 'Pink Dominoes.' I think it is just the thing for
us to do. In fact, I have already sent for a copy of it."

The play arrived the next day, and when George Stoddart read it to him the young agent bubbled
with laughter and said:

"It's bound to be a big success."

It was decided to put on "Pink Dominoes" at Houston. Charles remained behind and watched the
rehearsals, the first of the kind he had ever seen. Contrary to all expectations, Houston was
shocked by the play. The audience literally "walked out" and the run of one night ended.

Misfortunes now crowded thick and fast. Salaries had ceased entirely, and it was with the utmost
difficulty that the company proceeded on its way. As a crowning hardship, Callender repented
of his bargain and withdrew the much-used and treasured hundred-dollar bill.

When Charles met Gustave in Seguin he said: "We're up against a hard proposition. The people
want John Dillon. It's hard to book an attraction without a star."

In this statement Charles Frohman expressed a truth that he afterward made one of his theatrical
axioms, for he became the leading exponent of the star system, and developed, in fact, into
the king of the star-makers.

Charles rose supreme over the hardships that filled his colleagues with gloom. Many a night,
in order to save hotel bills, he slept on a train as it shunted back and forth between small
towns. He always turned up in the morning smiling and serene, with cheer for his now discouraged
and almost disgruntled colleagues.

Louise Dillon's sealskin sack rendered heroic service during these precarious days. It was
almost literally worn out as collateral. As Gustave had predicted, it got the company out of
town on more than one occasion. A little incident will indicate some of the ordeals of that
stage of the tour. At Hempstead a "norther" struck the town and the temperature dropped. Wesley
Sisson caught a hard cold and concluded to get what he called "a good sweat." He had scarcely
made his preparations and settled himself in bed when he heard a rap at the door and a voice
said, "Open up."

"Who's that?" asked Sisson.

"Charley," was the reply. "Let me in. There isn't a spare bed in this house and I am freezing
to death."

"All right," said Sisson, "but you don't want to come in here, because I am trying to sweat
to death."

"Great Scott!" yelled Frohman, "that's what I want to do."

Sisson let him in and he remained all night.

* * *

Everywhere Charles Frohman drew people to him. The first time he booked Houston he made friends
with Colonel McPherson, who owned the Perkins Opera House and the inevitable saloon alongside.
The old manager--a rather rough customer who had killed his man--was a great casino-player,
and Charles beguiled several hours with him one night at a game while waiting for a train.

In one of the company's darkest hours he said to Stoddart:

"I've got an idea. Let's play Houston."

"But we've just been there," said Stoddart.

"Never mind," said Charles. "I'll fix it."

The next day he turned up at Houston and went to Colonel McPherson.

"What, you here again?" he asked.

"We've come back," replied Charles with ready resource, "to play a special benefit for your
School Teachers' Association."

The old man chuckled. "Well, if you can get 'em in the house you are all right."

Charles was already planning a series of benefits for volunteer firemen and widows and orphans
in future towns. It was a case of "anything to get a crowd." He hesitated a moment, then faced
the old man with his winning smile and said:

"Colonel, I wish you would let me have fifty dollars to send back to the company."

"All right, my boy; there's the safe. Help yourself. Hurry up. Let us have a game of casino."

Charles wired the much-needed money to his brother, then came back and dutifully played the
game. But neither trumped-up benefits for the most worthy of causes nor the unfailing good-humor
of the boyish advance-agent could stem the tide of adversity. Things went from bad to worse.
Louise Dillon, all hope of salary gone, gave her little remaining capital to Gustave, saving
only enough for her railway fare, and went back to her home in Cincinnati. Stoddart now played
more dolefully than ever on his violin, ransacked its recesses, and turned over his last cent
for the common good.

"We've got to get back North," said Gustave.

With the utmost effort, and by pawning jewelry and clothes, the company gladly saw the last
trace of Texas disappear over the horizon.

It was a hard journey back. At Pine Bluff, Arkansas, Charles had to wait for the company because
he did not have enough cash to go on ahead. Here the whole company was stranded until several
of the members succeeded in getting enough money from home by wire to send them on.

Memphis proved to be a life-saver. Here the company took a steamboat down the Arkansas. It
is notable because thus early Charles showed that eagerness to take a chance which eventually
caused his death, for, on this trip, as on the Lusitania, he had been warned not to sail.

The river was low and the pilot was reckless. Whenever the boat groaned over a bar Charles
would say, "That's great," although the other members of the company shivered with apprehension.

By using every device and resource known to the traveling company of those days, the Stoddart
Comedy Company finally reached Richmond, Kentucky. It had left a trail of baggage behind; there
was not a watch in the whole aggregation. Charles went on ahead to Cincinnati to book and bill
the adjacent towns.

At Richmond Gustave had an inspiration. Then, as always, "Uncle Tom's Cabin" was the great
life-saver of the harassed and needy theatrical organization. The play was always accessible
and it almost invariably drew an audience.

"Why not have a real negro play Uncle Tom?" said Gustave.

So he wired Charles as follows:

     Get me an Eva and send her down with Sam Lucas. Be sure to tell
     Sam to bring his diamonds.

Sam Lucas was a famous negro minstrel who had been with the Callender company. He sported a
collection of diamonds that made him the envy and admiration of his colleagues. Gustave knew
that these jewels, like Louise Dillon's sealskin sack, meant a meal ticket for the company
and transportation in an emergency.

Charles engaged Sallie Cohen (now Mrs. John C. Rice), and sent her down with Lucas, who, by
the way, provided the money for the trip. Charles then proceeded to cover his "Lemons" posters
with "Uncle Tom's Cabin" printing which he hastily acquired, and awaited results.

"Uncle Tom's Cabin" was played to a packed house at Richmond, and the company was able to get
out of Kentucky. Gustave now had visions of big business in Ohio, and especially at Wilmington,
which was Sam Lucas's home town. But the result was the usual experience with home patronage
of home talent, and only a handful of people came to see the play. Sallie Cohen, despairing
of getting her salary, had quit the company, and on this night Polly Stoddart, who was a tall,
well-developed woman, had to play Little Eva. When she sat on the lap of Wesley Sisson, who
played her father, she not only hid him from sight, but almost crushed him to earth.

Wilmington proved to be the last despairing gasp of the Stoddart Comedy Company, for the trouble-studded
tour now ended. Some of Lucas's diamonds were pawned to get the company back to Cincinnati.

The sad news was telegraphed to Charles, who was billing Newport, Kentucky, which is just across
the Ohio River from Cincinnati. He received the message while standing on a step-ladder with
a paste-brush in his hand. Now came an early evidence of his humor and equanimity. He calmly
went on posting the bill for the show that he knew would never appear. Afterward in reciting
the incident he made this explanation:

"I didn't want to tell the bill-poster that the company was closed, because he had just made
a fresh bucket of paste and I didn't want him to waste it. Besides, he had become enthusiastic
at the prospect of seeing a real negro Uncle Tom, and I had just given him some passes for
the show. I didn't want all his disappointments to come at one time."

After all the hardships of the previous months, and with salaries unpaid, the company now found
itself stranded in the spring of 1878 at the Walnut Street Hotel in Cincinnati. Gustave's problem
was to get his people home. Fortunately, most of them lived in the Middle West. By pawning
some of his clothes and making other sacrifices he was able to get them off. Only Frank Hartwell
and Charles were left behind.

Gustave got a pass to Baltimore, where he borrowed enough money from Callender, then in his
decline, to take care of Hartwell. Charles was left behind as security for the whole Frohman
bill at the Walnut Street Hotel. Although Charles was amiable and smiling, the hotel thought
that his cheerful demeanor was an unsatisfactory return for board and lodging, so he was asked
to vacate his room after a few days. He now spent his time walking about the streets and eating
one meal a day. At night he sat in the summer-gardens "across the Rhine," listening to the
music, and then seeking out a place where he could get a bed for a quarter.

By giving an I O U to the same Pennsylvania ticket-agent who had staked Gustave, and with five
dollars telegraphed by the indefatigable brother back in New York, he got as far as Philadelphia.
He landed there without a cent in his pocket.

"I must get home," he said.

He got on a day-coach of a New York train without the vestige of a ticket and still penniless.
In those days the cars were heated by stoves, and near each stove was a large coal-box.

When Charles heard the conductor's cry, "Tickets, please!" he hid himself in the coal-box and
remained there until the awful personage passed by. Being small, he could pull the lid of the
box down and be completely hidden from sight. After the conductor passed, he scrambled out
and resumed his seat. He had to repeat this performance several times on the trip. Afterward
in speaking of it he said:

"I wasn't a bit frightened for myself. I knew I would suffer no harm. My chief concern was
for a kind-hearted old man who sat in the seat next to the coal-box. He was much more agitated
than I was."

On a bright May afternoon Charles turned up, sooty but smiling, at 250 East Seventy-eighth
Street, where the Frohman family then lived. He had walked all the way up-town from the ferry.
His first greeting to Gustave was:

"Well, when do we start again?"

III

PICTURESQUE DAYS AS MINSTREL MANAGER

Instead of discouraging him, Charles Frohman's baptism of hardship with the John Dillon companies
only filled him with a renewed ardor for the theatrical business. The hunger for the road was
strong in him. Again it was Gustave who proved to be the good angel, and who now led him to
a picturesque experience.

During the summer of 1878 J. H. (Jack) Haverly acquired the Callender Original Georgia Minstrels,
and Gustave, who had an important hand in the negotiation, was retained as manager. He started
for the Pacific coast with his dusky aggregation, and in Chicago fell in with his new employer.

Haverly was then at the high tide of his extraordinary career. He was in many respects the
amusement dictator of his time. Beginning as owner of a small variety theater in Toledo, Ohio,
he had risen to be the manager of half a dozen important theaters in New York, Chicago, and
Philadelphia. Not less than ten traveling companies bore his name.

By instinct a plunger, his daring deals became the theatrical talk of the country. He was a
dashing and conspicuous figure; his spacious shirt-front shone with diamonds, and he wore a
large flat-crowned stiff hat in which he carried all his correspondence and private papers.

Haverly specialized in minstrels, for he was a genius at capitalizing the enthusiasm of the
theater-going public. Just at this time he was launching the greatest of all his traveling
enterprises. To meet the competition of the newly formed Barlow, Wilson, Primrose and West
minstrels he decided to merge all his white minstrel companies into the Haverly Mastodons.
It was to include forty star performers, more than had ever before been assembled in a minstrel
organization. So proud was Haverly of this total that the advertising slogan of the company,
which was echoed from coast to coast, and which became a popular theatrical phrase everywhere,
was "Forty--Count 'Em--Forty."

Gustave found Haverly in the throes of Mastodon-making. Always solicitous of the family interest,
he asked him if he had engaged a treasurer. When Haverly replied that he had not, Gustave immediately
spoke up:

"Why don't you hire my brother Charley? He has had experience on the road."

"All right, Gus," he replied. "I've got two Frohmans with me now. If Charley is as good as
they are, he is all right."

Thus it came about that for the first time the three Frohman brothers were associated under
the same employer.

Gustave wired the good news and transportation to the eager and impatient Charles, who had
irked under the inactivity of a hot summer in New York. Gustave added ten dollars and instructed
his brother to buy a new suit, for the Frohman family funds were in a more or less sad way.

Henry Frohman's generosity and his absolute inability to press the payment of debts due him
had brought the father to a state of financial embarrassment, and the burden of the family
support fell upon the sons.

In a few days Charles showed up smiling in Chicago, but he had suffered disaster on the way.
The ten-dollar "hand-me-down" suit had faded overnight, and when Charles appeared it was a
sad sight.

"You can't meet Jack Haverly in that suit," said Gustave.

"All right," said Charley, "I will go to a tailor and have it fixed in some way."

The tailor, apparently, worked a miracle with the clothes, for Charles became presentable and
was introduced to the great man, who, like most other people, readily succumbed to the boy's
winning manner.

"You and I will work the public, all right," he said to Charles. What was more important, Haverly
informed him that he was to act as treasurer of the Mastodons at a salary of ten dollars a
week, with an allowance of one dollar and a half a day for board and lodging.

A serious complication now faced the boy. It was in the middle of July; the company was not
to start until August, and he could draw no salary until the engagement began. With the assistance
of Gustave he rented a two-dollar-a-week room and existed on a meal-ticket good for twenty-two
fifteen-cent meals that he had bought for three dollars.

Charles sat at rehearsals with Haverly. He had a genius for stage effects and made many practical
suggestions. The big brass-band, an all-important adjunct of the minstrel show, fascinated
him. When the season opened with a flourish the receipts amazed him.

For the first time he came in contact with real money. The gross income of the Dillon company
had never exceeded a thousand dollars a week; now he was handling more than that sum every night.

After a brief engagement at the Adelphi Theater in Chicago, which Haverly owned, the "Forty--Count
'Em--Forty" started on their long tour which rounded out the amusement apprenticeship of Charles
Frohman.

* * *

Charles now made his first real appearance before the public, and in spectacular fashion. It
was the custom of a minstrel company to parade each day. With their record-breaking organization
the Mastodons gave this feature of minstrelsy perhaps its greatest traditions. Wearing shining
silk hats, frock-coats, and lavender trousers, and headed by "the world's greatest minstrel
band," the "Forty--Count 'Em--Forty" swayed the heart and moved the imagination of admiring
multitudes wherever they went.

Charles, who to the end of his days despised a silk hat, now wore one for the first time, but
under protest. However, he manfully took his place in the front set of fours with the ranking
officers of the organization, and marched many a weary mile. So great was his dislike for a
silk hat even then that he invariably carried a cap in his pocket and the moment the parade
was over the abhorred headpiece was removed.

The first stop of the Mastodons was at Toledo, Ohio. A great crowd assembled around the theater,
and the treasurer, a weak little man, seemed afraid to raise the window. "They'll run over
me," he whined.

"All right," said Charles. "I'll take the window and sell the tickets."

Up to this time his only box-office experience had been as a mere lad at Hooley's Theater in
Brooklyn, but he handled that big crowd with such skill and speed that even "Big Bill" Foote,
who was the manager of the company, patted him on the back and said a kind word.

Foote, who was Charles's superior officer on this trip, was a type of the big, loud, blustering
theatrical man of the time. He was six feet tall, and he towered over his youthful assistant,
who was his exact opposite in manner and speech. Yet between these two men of strange contrast
there developed a close kinship. The little, plump, rosy-cheeked treasurer could handle the
big, bluff, noisy manager at will. Such was Charles Frohman's experience with men always.

The first tour was replete with stirring incident. When the company reached Bradford, Pennsylvania,
they found the town in the throes of oil excitement. Oil was on everybody's tongue and ankle-deep
in some of the streets. A great multitude collected at the theater. After the first part of
the show the gallery, which was full of people, creaked and settled a few inches, creating
a near panic. While this was being subdued an oil-warehouse on the outskirts of the town burst
into flames. Most of the volunteer firemen were in the theater watching the minstrels. When
an agitated individual out on the sidewalk yelled "Fire!" a real panic started inside the theater
and there was a mad rush for the door.

Charles had just finished taking the tickets and stood with the ticket-box in his hand, trying
to calm the crowd, but he was as a straw in the wind. The maddened people ran over him. When
the excitement cleared away he was found almost buried in mud, mire, and oil outside, his clothes
torn to shreds, but he still grasped the precious box in his hand.

Now began a comradeship that was unique in the history of theatricals. The Mastodons, destined
for long and continuous association, became a sort of traveling club. It was really a fine
group of men, and the favorite of the organization was the rosy little treasurer who day by
day fastened himself more firmly in the hearts of his colleagues.

Nor was this due to the fact that he was "Haverly's pocket-book," as the men affectionately
called him, and their first aid in all financial need. He was the friend, confidant, and repository
of all their troubles. With characteristic humor he gave each member of the company a day on
which he could relate his hardships. He had a willing ear and an open hand.

When he could not give them the relief they sought he invariably said with that constant smile,
"Well, I sympathize with you, anyhow."

Frohman was custodian of the company funds. One day in Denver four members of the company found
themselves without a cent. Charles had tided them over so many difficulties that they hesitated
to ask him again. As they talked their troubles over they saw him coming down the street. Instantly
all four went down on their knees and held up their hands in supplication. When Charles saw
them he said, "How much do you want?" And they got it.

He was always playing some practical joke. With half a dozen members of the company he formed
a little club which often had supper after the play. This club was the fountain-head of a thousand
jests and pranks. On one occasion Charles suggested that for the sake of the novelty of the
thing every member of the club have his head shaved. The group went to a barber-shop. Only
one chair was vacant, however, and Charles Cushman got that chair. While his dome was being
shorn of every vestige of hair Charles nudged the others and they crept away. When Cushman
emerged, bald as a babe, he found himself alone. The joke was on him.

In his joke Charles was usually aided and abetted by Johnnie Rice, one of the many famous minstrels
of that name. Rice could never resist the temptation to stroke long whiskers. Whenever the
house was unusually big Charles took Rice out of the company for the first part and got him
to assist him with the ticket-taking. Any spectator with a long facial hirsute growth was sure
to have it caressed to the accompaniment of "Ticket, please."

Sometimes the men in the company, knowing of Rice's eccentricity, often watched the gallery
for such a performance, and it invariably made them laugh. Once while the Mastodons were playing
an engagement at the Olympic in St. Louis they were surprised to find Rice sitting in a front
orchestra seat, wearing a long pair of Dundreary whiskers. He looked so solemn that every one
on the stage burst into laughter. It almost broke up the performance. Charles had provided
the whiskers.

* * *

It was on this minstrel tour that Charles Frohman gave the first real expression to his talents
for publicity. Everything about a minstrel company was showy and flashy. So Charles originated
a unique idea of establishing a reputation for solvency. He bought a small iron safe about
three feet high. On it were painted in large gilt letters, "Treasurer, Haverly's Mastodon Minstrels."

In reality there was very little need for this safe, because "Jack" Haverly's constant and
insistent demands for cash kept the company coffers stripped of surplus.

Charles saw in this safe a spectacular means of advertising. It was put conspicuously on the
top of the first load of baggage that went to the hotel. He always engaged at least four men
to unload it from the truck. It was then placed in a conspicuous position in the hotel lobby
and invariably drew a comment like this:

"Gee whiz! That Haverly show has got so much money that it is carrying a safe to hold it."

This was precisely the response that Charles desired. No sooner was the safe unloaded in the
lobby than Charles approached it with great ceremony, holding a bunch of one-dollar bills in
his hand. This immediately attracted a crowd. With an admiring gallery, he would stow away
the money. Just as soon as the crowd dispersed he would be back on the job removing this "prop"
capital to where it was needed.

He was always alert to publicity possibilities. Among other things he organized a drum corps
composed of volunteers who were only too glad to serve him. He inspired this corps to such
proficiency that its marching and counter-marching became a feature of the parades. By diverting
the drum corps to one part of the town and the parade to another, having them unite later on,
he was able to attract two big street crowds and then bring them together at a common point.

All the while the boy was growing in responsibility. Without a murmur he assumed practically
all the duties of manager. He arranged the parades, visited the newspaper offices, devised
new numbers for the company, handled the money, and always remained serene, undisturbed, smiling,
and optimistic.

Now came evidence of his initiative. While his first desire was to build up the attractiveness
of his bill, he combined with it a genuine desire to develop his associates. Frequently he
would say to men like the three Gorman brothers--George, James, and John--who were among his
prime pals in the company:

"Why don't you rehearse some new steps? I'll go on and watch you at rehearsals and we can put
it in the bill."

Out of such incidents as this came a dozen new features.

* * *

During this tour Charles displayed on many occasions what amounted to a reckless disregard
of danger. He had proved on the Dillon tour that he was always willing to take a chance.

Once while climbing a steep incline on the way to Grass Valley in California their special
train stopped. When he asked what the trouble was he was told that they would have to wait
on a switch while another train came down the single track. He was afraid he would miss the
evening's performance, so he asked the engineer if he could beat the down train to the double
track. On being told that there was a chance, he said:

"Take it and go as fast as you can." He made his town in time.

Again in Colorado his train was stopped by a slight fire on a bridge. He urged the conductor
to go across, and was so insistent that the man yielded, and the train got over just before
the flames leaped up and the structure began to crackle.

What would have been an ordinary theatrical season waned. A minstrel company, however, seldom
closed for the summer, so the tour continued. For the first time Charles Frohman crossed the
continent. Despite its high-sounding name and the glitter and splash that marked its spectacular
progress from place to place, the long trip of the Mastodons was not without its hardships,
for business was often bad. Nor did it lack interesting episodes.

Once while making an over-Sunday jump from St. Paul to Omaha the train broke down somewhere
in Iowa, and at seven o'clock the company was four hours from its destination. The house had
been sold out. Charles immediately began to send optimistic and encouraging telegrams.

"Hold the crowd," he wired. "We are on the way. Tell them we will give them a double show."

From every station he sent on some cheering message. When the train was half an hour from Omaha
he sought out Sam Devere, the prize banjoist of the company and a great fun-maker.

"Go into the baggage-car and black up," he said to Sam. "I want to rush you on to the theater
as soon as we get to town."

They reached Omaha at eleven-fifteen o'clock. Charles hustled Devere up to the opera-house
in a hack. The comedian went before the curtain and entertained the audience until midnight.
When the company arrived not twenty people had left. The final curtain dropped at two-thirty
o'clock before a delighted but weary crowd. The telegrams from the treasurer which were read
to the audience had saved the day--and the receipts.

In the early stages of this long journey of the Mastodons came an episode that made an indelible
impress upon the memory of young Charles. In view of the later history of the two actors in
it, it is both picturesque and historic.

It was in Cleveland, and the day was hot. The Mastodons had just finished their parade, and
Charles, weary, perspiring, and wearing the abhorred silk hat, entered the box-office of the
Opera House on Cleveland Avenue. Sitting in the treasurer's seat at the window he saw a sturdy
lad fingering a pile of silver dollars. He slipped them in and out with an amazing dexterity.
Hearing a noise, he looked up and beheld young Frohman with the tile tilted back on his head.

The boys' eyes met. Into each came a wistful look.

"I wish I had that silk hat of yours," said the boy at the window.

"I wish I could do what you are doing with that money," was the response from the envied one.

Such was the first meeting between Charles Frohman and A. L. Erlanger.

Here is another episode of those early days that resulted in a life-long and significant friendship.
In a Philadelphia newspaper office Charles met a rangy, keen-eyed young man named Alf Hayman,
who was advance-agent for Mr. and Mrs. W. J. Florence. When Hayman and Charles had concluded
their business they started out for a walk. The Colonnade Hotel, at the corner of Fifteenth
and Chestnut streets, was then the fashionable hotel of the city. In the course of this walk
the two boys (they were each scarcely twenty) stopped in front of the hostelry, and Charles said:

"Some day I hope to have enough money to stop at the Colonnade."

He never forgot this, and whenever he met Hayman in Philadelphia he would always insist upon
walking over to the hotel and recalling the conversation. Hayman afterward became general manager
of all the Charles Frohman forces and remained until the end perhaps the closest of all the
business associates of the manager.

* * *

Thus passed the years 1878 and 1879. Charles was growing in authority and experience until
he was really doing all of "Big Bill" Foote's work and his own. Now came a great and thrilling
experience.

Haverly sent the Mastodons on their first trip to England, and Charles naturally went along.
It was the first of the many trips he was to make to the country which in time he was to annex
to his own amusement kingdom.

In July, 1880, the company sailed on the Canada, and their arrival in London created a sensation.
The men, headed by "Big Bill" Foote and Charles Frohman--"The Long and the Short of It," as
they were called--marched with their hat-boxes to the old Helvetia Hotel in Soho.

Overnight their printing--the first colored paper ever used on an English bill-board--was posted,
and it startled the staid Londoners. It made them realize that a wide-awake aggregation was
in town. Charles knew that a real opportunity confronted him, and he rose to the occasion.

The engagement opened on July 30th at Her Majesty's Theater. The sacred precincts that Patti,
Neilson, Gerster, and Campanini had adorned now resounded with the jokes and rang with the
old-time plantation melodies of the American negro. The début was an enormous success and the
prosperity of the engagement was insured.

Before long came a request from the royal household to make ready the royal box. The fun-loving
Prince of Wales, afterward King Edward VII., wanted to see an American minstrel show.

But it was the wide-awake Charles who had started the machinery that led to this royal dictate.
He realized soon after his arrival how important a royal visit would be. He got in touch with
the right people, and the net result was that on a certain night in December the red canopy
and carpet that betoken the royal visit were spread before Her Majesty's Theater.

By virtue of his rank "Big Bill" Foote should have received the royal party on behalf of the
company. But Foote fled from the responsibility, and Charles, wearing his much-hated evening
clothes and the equally despised silk hat, did the honors. The royal party included Edward,
his wife, Alexandra (now the Queen Mother), his brother Clarence (now dead), and a troop of
royal children old enough to stay up late at nights.

With his usual foresight Frohman had prepared himself for all the formalities that attended
a royal visit to the theater. Among other things he found out that precedent decreed that the
entire performance must be directed toward the royal box. With much effort he carefully impressed
this fact upon the company. He even had a rehearsal the morning of the royal night and all
eyes were ordered to be "dressed" toward the big, canopied box.

But these well-laid plans miscarried, for this is what happened:

The curtain had risen on the assembled fun-makers; their swinging opening chorus had given
the show a rousing start, and the interlocutor had said those well-known introductory minstrel
words, "Gentlemen, be seated." The royal party was well bestowed in its place and every gleaming
eyeball on the stage was centered on the glittering representatives of the reigning house of
Britain. Just at that moment a flutter ran through the theater. The only remaining vacant box,
and opposite to the one used by the royal family, was suddenly occupied by the most entrancing
and radiant feminine vision that these American minstrels had ever seen. It was Lily Langtry,
then in the full tide of her marvelous beauty, and wearing an extremely low-cut evening gown.

The Mastodons were only human. They had never beheld such loveliness, to say nothing of a gown
cut so low. They forgot all the careful coaching of Frohman and fixed their eyes on the beauty-show
in the box.

Charles stood anxiously in the back of the house, fearing that the royal displeasure would
be aroused. But his fears were groundless. The hypnotized minstrels on the stage were only
part of an admiring host that had for its most distinguished head the Prince of Wales himself.

The "Forty--Count 'Em--Forty" now became the vogue in London. Royalty had set the stamp of
its approval, and aristocracy flocked. One night in the momentary absence of the chief usher,
Charles, who was always on the job, escorted a distinguished group of nobility to a box. After
bowing them in a member of the party slipped a shilling into his hand, which Frohman, of course,
refused.

"Take it, you beggar," said the peer, with some irritation, throwing the coin at him.

"Thank you, sir," responded Frohman, picking it up and slipping it into his pocket. He kept
it as a lucky-piece for twenty years, often telling the story of how he got it.

On Christmas Day, 1880, came a concrete evidence of the affection in which Charles was held
by his minstrel colleagues. They assembled on the stage of Her Majesty's Theater and presented
him with a gold watch and chain. The charm was a tiny reproduction of the famous safe that
Charles had introduced into the company, and which was his inseparable companion. Charles never
carried a watch, and this timepiece, together with many other similar gifts, was put away among
his treasures.

One day, accompanied by Robert Filkins, the advance-agent, Charles had occasion to see Col.
M. B. Leavitt, who was a notable theatrical figure of the time, with extensive interests in
this country and abroad. After Leavitt had regaled the younger men with an account of his varied
activities, Charles suddenly exclaimed to him:

"Gee! But you've got London by the neck, haven't you?"

Many years later Leavitt again met Charles Frohman in London. The encounter this time took
place on the Strand, in front of the Savoy, where Frohman was installed in his usual luxurious
suite. He now controlled half a dozen theaters in the British metropolis and he was a world
theatrical figure. Leavitt, whose memory is one of the wonders of the amusement business, clapped
the magnate on the shoulder and repeated the words spoken to him so long ago:

"Gee! Frohman, you've got London by the neck, haven't you?"

After a tour of the provinces the company returned home and opened in Brooklyn.

* * *

With the return to America came the first realization of one of Charles Frohman's earlier dreams.
"Big Bill" Foote, fascinated by the lure of English life, bought a small hotel near London
and settled down. This left the managership of the company vacant. Although Charles had practically
done all the work for nearly a year, he was, so far as title was concerned, treasurer.

Immediately there was a scramble for the position of manager. Among those who sought it were
Robert Filkins, William S. Strickland, and a number of other mature and experienced men.

But when the company heard that an outsider sought the position to which Charles was entitled
there was great indignation. A meeting of protest, instigated by the Gorman brothers and Eddie
Quinn, was held on the stage in Brooklyn, and a round-robin, signed by every member of the
company, was despatched to Jack Haverly, insisting that Charles Frohman be made the manager.

A little later Charles walked back on the stage after the night's performance and quietly remarked:

"Boys, I am your new manager."

A great shout of delight went up. The rosy, boyish youth (for he had scarcely entered his twenties)
was lifted to the shoulders of half a dozen men and to the words of a favorite minstrel song,
"Hear Those Bells," a triumphant march was made around the stage. None of the many honors that
came to him in his later years touched him quite so deeply as that affectionate demonstration.

It was now 1881, and once more the "Forty--Count 'Em--Forty" set forth to rediscover America,
with Charles Frohman as manager. His name now appeared at the head of the bill, and to celebrate
the great event Eddy Brooke wrote a "Frohman March," which had a conspicuous place on the program.

Strangely prophetic of the circumstances which brought about his untimely death was an incident
which occurred while the company was going by boat from New York to New London. It was a bitter
cold night when the aggregation boarded the old John B. Starin. The decks were piled with waste,
cord, and jute for the New England mills.

"What a fine night for a fire on board!" remarked Frohman as he led his "soldiers," as he always
called the Mastodons, aboard. Everybody retired early. At two o'clock in the morning there
was great excitement. Men rushed frantically about; there were calls for hose, and the Mastodons,
most of them clad in their night-clothes and trousers, rushed, frightened, on deck. They found
a fire raging aft.

Immediately panic reigned. The coolest man aboard was the smallest. Here, there, and everywhere
went Charles, urging everybody to be quiet.

"There is no danger," he said. "Let us all go in the cabin and wait."

Under his direction the passengers assembled in the water-soaked saloon and there waited until
the flames were subdued. Here was evidence of the equanimity with which he faced disaster and
which marked him on that ill-starred day when he was plunged to his death in the Irish Sea.

On through the summer of 1881 the Mastodons went their way. Charles was now able to watch the
minstrel parade from the sidewalk, but he was still the friend, philosopher, and guide of the
company to which he was now bound by nearly three years of constant association.

They played Washington during the Garfield inaugural week. Charles realized that here was a
great opportunity for spectacular publicity. First of all he took his now famous band down
to the Willard Hotel and serenaded the new executive. A vast crowd gathered; the President-elect
appeared at the window, smiled and bowed, and then sent for the little manager, to whom he
expressed his personal thanks. Then a heaven-born opportunity literally fell into his hands.

To the same hotel came the Massachusetts Phalanx, of Lowell, which had secured a conspicuous
place in the inaugural parade. Their arrangement committee had seen the Haverly parade, and
the members were so greatly impressed with the band that they asked if its services could be
secured.

"Certainly," said Frohman. "You can have not only the band, but the whole company will escort
you in the parade."

Thus it came about that the Haverly Mastodon Minstrels headed the third division of the Garfield
inaugural parade. Ever mindful and proud of his men, Frohman, at his personal expense, bought
a buttonhole bouquet for every member for the occasion and fastened it on their coats himself.
On the sidewalk he followed with admiring eye and flushed face the progress of his company.

By a curious coincidence the Haverly Mastodons played Washington during the week of the Garfield
funeral, and the band marched in the funeral parade to the station, playing "Nearer, My God,
to Thee."

A happier sequel of the inaugural episode came when the minstrels next played Lowell, where
they were received by the Phalanx in full uniform, paraded through the town, with Charles marching
proudly at the head. The Phalanx was host at a banquet given at the armory after the performance.

The Mastodons were now making their way to the Pacific coast. At the same time Gustave Frohman
was in San Francisco with the Number One "Hazel Kirke" Company, direct from the Madison Square
Theater in New York, which was playing at the California Theater.

One morning in May, 1881, he received the following telegram from Charles, dated Salt Lake City:

     Am stranded here with the "Big Forty." So is Frank Sanger with "A
     Bunch of Keys." Theater management has failed to send railroad
     fares. Wire me what you can. Will return amount out of receipts
     Bush Street Theater.

The manager of the Bush Street Theater, in San Francisco, had agreed to provide railroad transportation
for the company from Salt Lake City to San Francisco and had not kept his agreement. The receipts
in the former city did not leave a sufficient surplus to negotiate this jump.

Gustave wired the needed cash, and Charles showed up on time in San Francisco. For the second
and only other time in his theatrical career Charles was somewhat downcast. Despite his effective
services during the preceding years, Haverly had only raised his salary to twenty-five dollars
a week. The boy had handled hundreds of thousands of dollars and had helped in no small way
to give to the organization its prestige and its esprit de corps. He was now, in the phraseology
of his associates, "the whole show." His word was law with the company, and the men adored him.

He met Gustave at the Palace Hotel and said to him, "I suppose the time has come for me to
quit Haverly."

"All right," said Gustave, still the good angel. "I'll put you out ahead of our Number Two
'Hazel Kirke' Company at a salary of seventy-five dollars a week. You can start out right away.
What do you say?"

Charles thought a moment, and then said: "Well, Gus, it's pretty tough to go ahead of a Number
Two company even at seventy-five dollars a week when you have been manager of Haverly's Mastodons.
The money doesn't mean anything to me. I like the minstrel boys and they like me."

He still hesitated and walked up and down the room two or three times, as was his habit. Finally
he came over to his brother and said, decisively:

"I'll take it."

During this memorable visit to San Francisco occurred another event that had large influence
on the whole future life of the young man. One night in a famous ratheskeller on Kearney Street
he saw an artistic-looking youth with curly hair and dreamy eyes sitting in the midst of a
group of actors. This youth was David Belasco, who had passed from actor to author-stage-manager
and whose melodrama, "American Born," was running at the Baldwin Theater. Frohman had seen
this play and was much impressed with it. Thrillers had interested him from the start.

Gustave, who was with Belasco, said to him: "There's my brother Charley. You ought to know him."

Simultaneously Belasco was pointed out to Charles. They glanced up at the same time, nodded
smilingly across the space between, and later on when they were introduced Charles expressed
his great admiration for "American Born." Belasco had just received the offer from Daniel Frohman
to come to the Madison Square Theater in New York as stage-manager.

Out of this contact came the association between Charles Frohman and David Belasco that added
much to their achievements.

Charles gave Haverly notice, and at Indianapolis he left the Mastodons. He slipped away without
farewells, and when his absence became known a gloom settled down on the company. Unconsciously
the rosy-cheeked boy had become its inspiration. For weeks the performances lacked their customary
zip and enthusiasm.

His minstrel days over, save for two brief intervals, Charles was now about to begin his connection
with the Madison Square Theater. It was to mark, because of the men with whom he now became
associated and the revolution in theatrical methods which he brought about, the first really
significant epoch in his crowded career.

IV

IN THE NEW YORK THEATRICAL WHIRLPOOL

When Charles Frohman went to the Madison Square Theater in 1881 the three Frohman brothers
were literally installed for the first time under the same managerial roof. From this hour
on the affairs of Charles were bound up in large theatrical conduct.

Since the Madison Square Theater thus becomes the background of his real activities, the shell
out of which he emerged as a full-fledged manager, the institution, and its significance in
dramatic history, are well worth recording here.

The little Madison Square Theater, located back of the old Fifth Avenue Hotel, on Twenty-fourth
Street near Broadway, was established at a time when a new force was hovering over the New
York stage. This playhouse, destined to figure so prominently in the fortunes of all the Frohmans,
and especially Charles, grew out of the somewhat radical convictions of Steele Mackaye, one
of the most brilliant and erratic characters of his time. He was actor, lecturer, and playwright,
and he taught the art of acting on lines laid down by Delsarte. Dr. George Mallory, editor
of The Churchman, became interested in his views and regarded Mackaye as a man with a distinct
mission. He induced his brother, Marshall Mallory, to build the Madison Square Theater.

Steele Mackaye was the first director, and, with the active co-operation of the Mallorys, launched
its career. Dr. Mallory believed that the drama needed reform; that the way to reform it was
to play reformed drama. So the place was dedicated to healthy plays. "A wholesome place for
wholesome amusement" became the slogan. Contracts for plays were made only with American authors.
Here were produced the earlier triumphs of Steele Mackaye, Bronson Howard, William Gillette,
H. H. Boyessen, and Mrs. Frances Hodgson Burnett. In this house, in "May Blossom," De Wolf
Hopper first appeared in a stock company, afterward going into musical comedy. Among the actors
seen on its boards during the Frohman régime were Agnes Booth, Viola Allen, Effie Ellsler,
Georgia Cayvan, Mrs. Whiffen, Marie Burroughs, Annie Russell, George Clarke, Jeffreys Lewis,
C. W. Couldock, Thomas Whiffen, Dominick Murray, and Eben Plympton. Rose Coghlan was also a
member of the company, but had no opportunity of playing.

The house had certain unique and attractive qualities. It had been charmingly decorated by
Louis C. Tiffany, and one of its principal features was a double stage, which enabled the scenery
for one act to be set while another was being played before the audience. Thus long waits were
avoided.

The name of Frohman was associated with this theater from the very start, because its first
manager was Daniel Frohman. It opened in February, 1880, with Steele Mackaye's play "Hazel
Kirke," which was an instantaneous success. The little theater, with its novel stage, intimate
atmosphere, admirable company, and a policy that was definite and original, became one of the
most popular in America. "Hazel Kirke" ran four hundred and eighty-six nights in New York City
without interruption, which was a record run up to that time. In the original cast were Effie
Ellsler, Eben Plympton, Mr. and Mrs. Whiffen, and Charles W. Couldock.

* * *

The Madison Square Theater was also an important factor in New York dramatic life and began
to rival the prestige of the Wallack, Palmer, and Daly institutions. Its fame, due to the record-breaking
"Hazel Kirke" success, became nation-wide.

Now began an activity under its auspices that established a whole new era in the conduct of
the theater. It was the dawn of a "big business" development that sent the Madison Square successes
throughout the country, and Charles Frohman was one of its sponsors.

Gustave Frohman had been engaged as director of the traveling companies. He engaged Charles
as an associate. The work of the Frohmans was carefully mapped out. It was Daniel's business
to select the casts, organize and rehearse the companies in New York; Gustave took general
charge of the road equipment; while Charles arranged and booked the road tours.

It was after the phenomenal first season's run of "Hazel Kirke" that Charles Frohman hung up
his hat in the little "back office" of the Madison Square Theater to begin the work that was
to project his name and his talents prominently for the first time. New York sizzled through
the hottest summer it had ever known; Garfield lay dying, and the whole country was in a state
of unrest. Charles sweltered in his little cubbyhole, but he was enthusiastic and optimistic
about his new job.

Gustave and Charles had complete charge of all the traveling companies that developed out of
the series of "runs" at the theater. They inaugurated a whole new and brilliant theatrical
activity in towns and cities removed from theatrical centers, regarding which the other big
managers in New York were ignorant.

With the organization of these Madison Square companies the "Number Two Company" idea was born.
It was a distinct innovation. A play like "Hazel Kirke," for example, was played by as many
as five companies at one time, each company being adjusted financially to the type of town
to which it was sent. "Hazel Kirke" appeared simultaneously in New York City at three different
theaters, each with a separate and distinct type of audience.

Under the direction of Gustave and Charles, the outside business of the Madison Square Theater
spread so rapidly that in a short time fourteen road companies carried the name of the establishment
to all parts of the United States. Despite their youth, the three Frohmans had had a very extensive
experience over the whole country.

In those days the booking of road attractions was not made through syndicates. Applications
for time had to be made individually to every manager direct, even in the case of the most
obscure one-night stand. The big New York managers only concerned themselves with the larger
cities in which their companies made annual appearances. The smaller towns had to trust to
chance to get attractions outside the standard "road shows."

Charles realized this lack of booking facilities, and dedicated his talents and experience
to remedying it. His seasons on the road with John Dillon and the Haverly Minstrels had equipped
him admirably. He not only displayed remarkable judgment in routing companies, but he was now
able to express his genius for publicity. He always believed in the value of big printing.

"Give them pictures," he said.

He urged a liberal policy in this respect, and the Madison Square Theater backed his judgment
to the extent of more than one hundred thousand dollars a year for picture posters and elaborate
printing of all kinds. The gospel of Madison Square Theater art and its enterprises was thus
spread broadcast, not with ordinary cheap-picture advertising, but with artistic lithographs.
In fact, here began the whole process of expensive and elaborate bill-posting, and Charles
Frohman was really the father of it.

Under his direction the first "flashlights" ever taken of a theatrical company for advertising
purposes were made at the Madison Square Theater.

* * *

Charles was now director of nearly a score of agents who traveled about with the various companies.
He vitalized them with his enthusiasm. In order to expedite their work, Charles and his brothers
rented and furnished a large house on Twenty-fourth Street near the theater. It was in reality
a sort of club, for a dining-room was maintained, and there were a number of bedrooms. When
the agents came to town they lodged here. Charles, Gustave, and Daniel also had rooms in this
house. A dressmaking department was established on the premises where many of the costumes
for the road companies were made.

During these days Charles gave frequent evidence of his tact and persuasiveness. Often when
matters of policy had to be fixed and discussed, the managers of out-of-town theaters would
be called to New York. It was Charles's business to take them in hand and straighten out their
troubles. They would leave, feeling that they had got the best "time" for their theaters and
that they had made a friend in the optimistic little man who was then giving evidence of that
uncanny instinct for road management that stood him in such good stead later on.

With his usual energy Charles was interested in every phase of the Madison Square Theater.
Frequently, accompanied by Wesley Sisson, who succeeded Daniel Frohman during the latter's
occasional absences from the theater, he would slip into the balcony and watch rehearsals.
He sat with one leg curled under him, following the scenes with keenest interest. More than
once his sharp, swift criticism helped to smooth away a rough spot.

He impressed his personality and capacity upon all who came in contact with him. It was said
of him then, as it was said later on, that he could sit in his little office and make out a
forty weeks' tour for a company without recourse to a map. In fact, he carried the whole theatrical
map of the country under his hat.

* * *

In the strenuous life of those Madison Square days came some of Charles Frohman's closest and
longest friendships.

The first was with Marc Klaw. It grew out of play piracy, the inevitable result of the theater's
successes. Throughout the country local managers began to steal the Madison Square plays and
put them on with "fly-by-night" companies. Since they were unable to get manuscripts of the
play, the pirates sent stenographers to the theater to copy the parts. These stenographers
had to sit in the dark and write surreptitiously. In many instances, in order to keep the lines
of their notes straight, they stretched strings across their note-books.

Gustave Frohman happened to be in Louisville with the Number One "Hazel Kirke" Company. He
was looking about for a lawyer who could investigate and prosecute the piracy of the Madison
Square plays. He made inquiry of John T. Macauley, manager of Macauley's Theater, who said:

"There's a young lawyer here named Marc Klaw who is itching to get into the theatrical business.
Why don't you give him a chance?"

Frohman immediately engaged Klaw to do some legal work for the Madison Square Theater, and
he successfully combated the play pirates in the South. The copyright laws then were inadequate,
however, and Klaw was ordered to New York, where, after a short preliminary training, he was
sent out as manager of the Number Two "Hazel Kirke" Company of which Charles Frohman was advance-agent.
In this way the meeting between the two men, each destined to wield far-flung theatrical authority,
came about.

Charles resented going out with a "Number Two" Company, so to placate his pride and to give
distinction to the enterprise, Daniel put Georgia Cayvan, leading lady of the Madison Square
Theater, at the head of the cast.

There was good business method in putting out Miss Cayvan on this tour, because she was a New-Englander,
born at Bath, Maine, and Bath was included in this tour. When Charles reached Bath ahead of
the show he rode on the front seat of the stage to the hotel. He told the driver that he was
coming with a big New York show, and said:

"I've got a big sensation for Bath."

"What's that?" said the driver.

"We have Miss Cayvan as the leading lady," answered Frohman.

"Miss Who?" asked the driver.

"Miss Cayvan--Miss Georgia Cayvan, leading woman of the Madison Square Theater," answered Frohman,
with a great flourish.

"Oh," replied the driver, "you mean our little Georgie. We heard tell that she was acting on
the stage, and now I guess some folks will be right smart glad to see her."

Charles was so much interested in Miss Cayvan's appearance in her home town that he came back
and joined the company on its arrival and was present at the station when Marc Klaw brought
the company in.

Quite a delegation of home people were on hand to meet Miss Cayvan, and she immediately assumed
the haughty airs of a prima donna.

Charles was much amused, and decided to "take her down" in an amiable way. So he stepped up
to her with great solemnity, removed his hat, and said, after the manner of his old minstrel days:

"Miss Cayvan, we parade at eleven."

Miss Cayvan saw the humor of the situation, took the hint, and got down off her high horse.
In the company with Miss Cayvan at that time were Maude Stuart, Charles Wheatleigh, Frank Burbeck,
W. H. Crompton, and Mrs. E. L. Davenport, the mother of Fanny Davenport.

* * *

While Charles was impressing his personality and talents at the Madison Square Theater and
really finding himself for the first time, Gustave Frohman met Jack Haverly on the street one
day. The old magnate said, with emphasis:

"Gus, I've got to have Charles back."

"You can't have him," said Gustave.

"But I must," said Haverly.

"Well, if you pay him one hundred and forty-six dollars a week (one hundred and twenty-five
dollars salary and twenty-one dollars for hotel bills) you can have him for a limited time."

"All right," said Haverly.

Charles went back to the Mastodons, where he received a royal welcome. But his heart had become
attuned to the real theater--to the hum of its shifting life, to the swift tumult of its tears
and laughter. The excitement of the drama, and all the speculation that it involved (and he
was a born speculator), were in his blood. He heeded the call and went back to the Madison
Square Theater.

But the minstrel field was to claim him again and for the last time. Gustave conceived a plan
to send the Callender Minstrels on a spectacular tour across the continent. The nucleus of
the old organization, headed by the famous Billy Kersands, was playing in England under the
name of Haverly's European Minstrels, Haverly having acquired the company some years before.
Charles was sent over to get the pick of the Europeans for the new aggregation. Accompanied
by Howard Spear, he sailed on June 7, 1882, on the Wyoming.

He encountered some difficulty in getting the leading members, so with characteristic enterprise
he bought the whole company from Haverly and brought it back to the United States, where it
was put on the road as Callender's Consolidated Spectacular Colored Minstrels. On all the bills
appeared the inscription "Gustave and Charles Frohman, Proprietors." As a matter of fact, Charles
had very little to do with the company, although he made a number of its contracts. His financial
interest was trivial. Gustave used his name because Charles had been prominently associated
with the Mastodons and he had achieved some eminence as a minstrel promoter.

Having launched the Callender aggregation, he went on to Chicago, where Gustave was putting
on David Belasco's play "American Born," with the author himself as producer. Charles joined
his brother in promoting the enterprise.

Now began the real friendship between Charles Frohman and David Belasco. The chance contact
in San Francisco a few years before was now succeeded by a genuine introduction. The men took
to each other instinctively and with a profound understanding. They shared the same room and
had most of their meals together. Then, as throughout his whole life, Charles consumed large
portions of pie (principally apple, lemon meringue, and pumpkin) and drank large quantities
of lemonade or sarsaparilla. One day while they were having lunch together Frohman said to Belasco:

"You and I must do things together. I mean to have my own theater in Broadway and you will
write the plays for it."

"Very well," replied the ever-ready Belasco. "I will make a contract with you now."

"There will never be need of a contract between us," replied Frohman, who expressed then the
conviction that guided him all the rest of his life when he engaged the greatest stars in the
world and spent millions on productions without a scrap of paper to show for the negotiation.

Charles worked manfully for "American Born." It was in reality his first intimate connection
with a big production. At the outset his ingenuity saved the enterprise from threatened destruction.
Harry Petit, a local manager, announced a rival melodrama called "Taken From Life" at McVicker's
Theater, and had set his opening date one night before the inaugural of "American Born."

Charles scratched his head and said, "We must beat them to it."

He announced the "American Born" opening for a certain night and then opened three nights earlier,
which beat the opposition by one night.

Belasco's play was spectacular in character and included, among other things, a realistic fire
scene. When the time came for rehearsal the manager of the theater said that it could not be
done, because the fire laws would be violated.

"I'll fix that," said Charles.

He went down to the City Hall, had a personal interview with the mayor, and not only got permission
for the scene, but a detail of real firemen to act in it.

While in Chicago, Belasco accepted Daniel Frohman's offer to come to New York as stage-manager
of the Madison Square Theater. Charles and Belasco came east together, and the intimacy of
this trip tightened the bond between them. The train that carried them was speeding each to
a great career.

With Belasco installed as stage-manager there began a daily contact between the two. Belasco
went to Frohman with all his troubles. In Frohman's bedroom he wrote part of "May Blossom,"
in which he scored his first original success at the Madison Square. Charles was enormously
interested in this play, and after it was finished carried a copy about in his pocket, reading
it or having it read wherever he thought it could find a friendly ear.

So great was Belasco's gratitude that he gave Charles a half-interest in it, which was probably
the first ownership that Charles Frohman ever had in a play.

During those days at the Madison Square, when both Frohman and Belasco were seeing the vision
of coming things, they often went at night to O'Neil's Oyster House on Sixth Avenue near Twenty-second
Street. The day's work over, they had a bite of supper, in Frohman's case mostly pie and sarsaparilla,
and talked about the things they were going to do.

Charles Frohman's ambition for a New York theater obsessed him. One night as they were walking
up Broadway they passed the Fifth Avenue Hotel. A big man in his shirt-sleeves sat tilted back
in his chair in front of the hotel. The two young men were just across the street from him.
Frohman stopped Belasco, pointed to the man, and said:

"David, there is John Stetson, manager of the Fifth Avenue Theater. Well, some day I am going
to be as big a man as he is and have my own theater on Broadway."

* * *

Those were crowded days. Charles not only picked and "routed" the companies, but he kept a
watchful eye on them. This meant frequent traveling. For months he lived in a suit-case. At
noon he would say to his stenographer, "We leave for Chicago this afternoon," and he was off
in a few hours. At that time "Hazel Kirke," "The Professor," "Esmeralda," "Young Mrs. Winthrop,"
and "May Blossom" were all being played by road companies in various parts of the United States,
and it was a tremendous task to keep a watchful eye on them. It was his habit to go to a town
where a company was playing and not appear at the theater until the curtain had risen. The
company had no warning of his coming, and he could make a good appraisal of their average work.

On one of the many trips that he made about this time he gave evidence of his constant humor.

He went out to Columbus, Ohio, to see a "Hazel Kirke" company. He arrived at the theater just
before matinée, and as he started across the stage he was met by a newly appointed stage-manager
who was full of authority.

"Where are you going?" asked the man.

"To Mr. Hagan's dressing-room."

"I'll take the message," said the stage-director.

"No, I want to see him personally."

"But you can't. I am in charge behind the curtain."

Frohman left without a word, went out to the box-office and wrote a letter, discharging the
stage-director. Then he sat through the performance. Directly the curtain fell the man came
to him in a great state of mind.

"Why did you discharge me, Mr. Frohman?"

Frohman smiled and said: "Well, it was the only way that I could get back to see my actors.
If you will promise to be good I will re-engage you." And he did.

* * *

It was on a trip of this same kind that Charles had one of his many narrow escapes from death.
During the spring of 1883 he went out to Ohio with Daniel to visit some of the road companies.
Daniel left him at Cleveland to go over and see a performance of "The Professor" at Newcastle,
while Charles went on to join Gustave at Cincinnati.

Charles was accompanied by Frank Guthrie, who was a sort of confidential secretary to all the
Frohmans at the theater. Shortly before the train reached Galion, Charles, who sat at the aisle,
asked his companion to change places. Ten minutes later the train was wrecked. Guthrie, who
sat on the aisle seat, was hurled through the window and instantly killed, while Charles escaped
unhurt.

Daniel heard of the wreck, rushed to the scene on a relief train, expecting to find his brother
dead, for there had been a report that he was killed. Instead he found Charles bemoaning the
death of his secretary.

A month afterward Charles and Marc Klaw were riding in the elevator at the Monongahela House
in Pittsburg when the cable broke and the car dropped four stories. It had just been equipped
with an air cushion, and the men escaped without a scratch.

* * *

Along toward the middle of 1883 there were signs of a break at the Madison Square Theater.
Steele Mackaye had quarreled with the Mallorys and had left, taking Gustave with him to launch
the new Lyceum Theater on Fourth Avenue and Twenty-third Street. Daniel was becoming ambitious
to strike out for himself, while Charles was chafing under the necessity of being a subordinate.
He yearned to be his own master. "I must have a New York production," he said. The wish in
his case meant the deed, for he now set about to produce his first play.

Naturally, he turned to Belasco for advice and co-operation. Both were still identified with
the Madison Square Theater, which made their negotiations easy.

In San Francisco Charles had seen a vivid melodrama called "The Stranglers of Paris," which
Belasco had written from Adolphe Belot's story and produced with some success. Osmond Tearle,
then leading man for Lester Wallack and New York's leading matinée idol, had played in the
West the part of Jagon, who was physically one of the ugliest characters in the play.

"'The Stranglers of Paris' is the play for me," said Frohman to Belasco.

"All right," said David; "you shall have it."

The original dramatization was a melodrama without a spark of humor. In rewriting it for New
York, Belasco injected considerable comedy here and there.

Frohman, whose vision and ideas were always big, said:

"We've got to get a great cast. I will not be satisfied with anybody but Tearle."

To secure Tearle, Frohman went to see Lester Wallack for the first time. Wallack was then the
enthroned theatrical king and one of the most inaccessible of men. Frohman finally contrived
to see him and made the proposition for the release of Tearle. Ordinarily Wallack would have
treated such an offer with scorn. Frohman's convincing manner, however, led him to explain,
for he said:

"Mr. Tearle is the handsomest man in New York, and if I loaned him to you to play the ugliest
man ever put on the stage he would lose his drawing power for me. I am sorry I can't accommodate
you, Mr. Frohman. Come and see me again."

Out of that meeting came a friendship with Lester Wallack that developed large activities for
Charles, as will be seen later on.

Unable to get Tearle, Belasco and Frohman secured Henry Lee, a brilliant and dashing leading
actor who had succeeded Eben Plympton in the cast of "Hazel Kirke." The leading woman was Agnes
Booth, a well-known stage figure. She was the sister-in-law of Edwin Booth, and an actress
of splendid quality.

Unfortunately for him, the leading theaters were all occupied. There were only a few playhouses
in New York then, a mere handful compared with the enormous number to-day. But a little thing
like that did not disturb Charles Frohman.

Up at the northwest corner of Thirty-fifth Street and Broadway was an old barnlike structure
that had been successively aquarium, menagerie, and skating-rink. It had a roof and four walls
and at one end there was a rude stage.

One night at midnight Charles, accompanied by Belasco, went up to look at the sorry spectacle.
As a theater it was about the most unpromising structure in New York.

"This is all I can get, David," said Charles, "and it must do."

"But, Charley, it is not a theater," said Belasco.

"Never mind," said Frohman. "I will have it made into one."

The old building was under the control of Hyde & Behman, who were planning to convert it into
a vaudeville house. Frohman went to see them and persuaded them to turn it into a legitimate
theater. Just about this time the Booth Theater at Twenty-third Street and Sixth Avenue was
about to be torn down. Under Charles's prompting Hyde & Behman bought the inside of that historic
structure, proscenium arch, stage, boxes, and all, and transported them to the Thirty-fifth
Street barn. What had been a bare hall became the New Park Theater, destined to go down in
history as the playhouse that witnessed many important productions, as well as the first that
Charles Frohman made on any stage. Years afterward this theater was renamed the Herald Square.

Charles Frohman now had a play, a theater, and a cast. With characteristic lavishness he said
to Belasco:

"We must have the finest scenic production ever made in New York."

He had no capital, but he had no trouble in getting credit. Every one seemed willing to help
him. He got out handsome printing and advertised extensively. He spared nothing in scenic effects,
which were elaborate. He devoted every spare moment to attending rehearsals.

Among the supernumeraries was a fat boy with a comical face. At one of the rehearsals he sat
in a boat and reached out for something. In doing this he fell overboard. He fell so comically
that Belasco made his fall a part of the regular business. His ability got him a few lines,
which were taken from another actor. This fat-faced, comical boy was John Bunny, who became
the best-known moving-picture star in the United States, and who to the end of his days never
forgot that he appeared in Charles Frohman's first production. He often spoke of it with pride.

The autumn of 1883 was a strenuous one, for Charles had staked a good deal on "The Stranglers
of Paris." Yet when the curtain rose on the evening of November 10, 1883, he was the same smiling,
eager, but imperturbable boy who years before had uttered the wish that some day he would put
on a play himself in the great city. He now saw that dream come true. He was just twenty-three.

"The Stranglers of Paris" made quite a sensation. The scenic effects were highly praised, and
especially the ship scene, which showed convicts in their cages, their revolt, the sinking
of the vessel, Jagon's struggle in the water, his escape from death, and his dramatic appeal
to Heaven. Lee scored a great success and dated his popularity from this appearance.

Many of the lines in the piece were widely quoted, one of them in particular. It was in substance,
"Money has power to open prison gates, and no questions asked."

It was the time of sensational graft revelations, and theater-goers thought that it fitted
the New York situation.

"The Stranglers of Paris" ran at the New Park Theater until December 9, when it was taken on
the road. It continued on tour for a considerable period, playing most of the principal cities
of the East, but the production was so expensive that it made no money. In fact, Charles lost
on the enterprise, but it did not in the least dash his spirits. He was supremely content because
at last he had produced a play.

* * *

"The Stranglers of Paris" filled the budding manager with a renewed zeal to be a producer.
He was still enthusiastic about the melodrama, so he secured a vivid piece by R. G. Morris,
a New York newspaper man, called "The Pulse of New York," which he produced at the Star Theater,
Thirteenth Street and Broadway, which had been originally Wallack's Theater.

In the cast was a handsome, painstaking young woman named Viola Allen, whom Charles had singled
out because of her admirable work in a play that he had seen, and who was headed for a big
place in the annals of the American theater. The youthful manager encouraged her and did much
to aid her progress.

Others in the cast were Caroline Hill, A. S. Lipman, Edward S. Coleman, L. F. Massen, Frank
Lane, Henry Tarbon, W. L. Denison, George Clarke, H. D. Clifton, Ada Deaves, Max Freeman, Edward
Pancoast, Frank Green, Gerald Eyre, Nick Long, Frederick Barry, Oscar Todd, John March, Charles
Frew, Richard Fox, James Maxwell, J. C. Arnold, Stanley Macy, Lida Lacy, George Mathews, and
William Rose.

"The Pulse of New York" was produced May 10, 1884, but ran only three weeks. Once more Charles
faced a loss, but he met this as he met the misfortunes of later years, with smiling equanimity.

Now came a characteristic act. He was still in the employ of the Madison Square Theater and
had a guarantee of one hundred dollars a week. Although he had devoted considerable time to
his two previous productions, he was an invaluable asset to the establishment. He now felt
that the time had come for him to choose between remaining at the Madison Square under a guarantee
and striking out for himself on the precarious sea of independent theatrical management. He
chose the latter, and launched a third enterprise.

In his wanderings about New York theaters Charles saw a serious-eyed young actress named Minnie
Maddern. He said to Daniel:

"I have great confidence in that young woman. Will you help me put her out in a piece?"

"All right," replied his brother.

The net result was Miss Maddern in "Caprice."

In view of subsequent stage history this company was somewhat historic. Miss Maddern's salary
was seventy-five dollars a week. Her leading man, who had been a general-utility actor at the
Lyceum, and who also received seventy-five dollars a week, was Henry Miller. A handsome young
lad named Cyril Scott played a very small part and got fifteen dollars a week. The total week's
salary of the company amounted to only six hundred and ninety dollars.

"Caprice" opened at Indianapolis November 6, 1884, and subsequently played Chicago, St. Louis,
Evansville, Dayton, and Baltimore, with a week at the Grand Opera House in New York, where
its season closed. It made no money, but it did a great deal toward advancing the career of
Miss Maddern, who afterward became known to millions of theater-goers as Mrs. Fiske.

Charles had now made three productions on his own hook and began to impress his courage and
his personality on the theatrical world. He had definitely committed himself to a career of
independent management, and from this time on he went it alone.

V

Booking-Agent and Broadway Producer

The season of 1883-84 had seen Charles Frohman launched as independent manager. He had at its
conclusion cut his managerial teeth on the last of three productions which, while not financially
successful, had shown the remarkable quality of his ability. People now began to talk about
the nervy, energetic young man who could go from failure to failure with a smile on his face.
It is a tradition in theatrical management that successful starts almost invariably mean disastrous
finishes. An auspicious beginning usually leads to extravagance and lack of balance. Failure
at the outset provokes caution. Charles, therefore, had enough early hard jolts to make him
careful.

He always admired big names. Thus it came about that his next venture was associated with a
name and a prestige that meant much and, later on, cost much. Just about that time he met a
handsome young English actor named E. H. Sothern, who had come to this country with his sister
and who had appeared for a short time with John McCullough, the tragedian. Sothern had returned
to New York and was looking for an engagement.

In those days actors usually secured engagements by running down rumors of productions that
were afloat on the Rialto. In this way Sothern heard that Charles Frohman was about to send
out an English play called "Nita's First," which had been produced at Wallack's Theater. Sothern
called on Frohman and asked to be engaged.

"What salary do you want?" asked Frohman.

Sothern said he wanted fifty dollars.

"All right," said Frohman. "The part is worth seventy-five dollars, and I'll pay it."

Twenty years later the manager paid this same actor a salary of one hundred thousand dollars
for a season of forty weeks in Shakespearian rôles.

"Nita's First," however, ran for only two weeks on the road, and Charles ended the engagement.
The reason was that he had conceived what he considered a brilliant idea.

Lester Wallack and the Wallack Theater Company almost dominated the New York dramatic situation.
The company, headed by Wallack himself, included Rose Coghlan, Osmond Tearle, John Gilbert,
and a whole galaxy of brilliant people. The Wallack Theater plays were the talk of the town.
Frohman had an inspiration which he communicated one day to Lester Wallack's son, Arthur, whom
he knew. To Arthur he said:

"What do you think about my taking the Wallack successes out on the road? It is a shame not
to capitalize the popular interest in them while it is hot. Look at what the Madison Square
Theater has been doing. Will you speak to your father about it?"

Arthur spoke to his father, who was not averse to the idea, and Charles was bidden to the great
presence. He had met Lester Wallack before when he tried to engage Osmond Tearle for "The Stranglers
of Paris." Now came the real meeting. After Frohman had stated his case with all his persuasion,
he added:

"I am sure I can make you rich. You have overlooked a great chance to make money."

Lester Wallack said, "It is a good idea, Mr. Frohman, but your company must reflect credit
upon the theater, and your leading woman must be of the same type as my leading woman, Rose
Coghlan."

Charles immediately said, "The company shall be worthy of you and the name it bears."

Lester Wallack agreed to rehearse the company and to permit his name to be used in connection
with it. After Charles left, Lester Wallack said to his son:

"Watch that young man, Arthur. He is going to make his mark."

Arthur Wallack was about to take a trip to England, and Charles commissioned him to engage
the leading people. He therefore engaged Sophie Eyre, who had been leading woman at the Drury
Lane Theater, and W. H. Denny.

Charles himself selected the remaining members of the company, who were Newton Gotthold; C.
B. Wells; Charles Wheatleigh; Max Freeman; Rowland Buckstone; Henry Talbot; Sam Dubois; George
Clarke; Fred Corbett; Louise Dillon, who had been with him in the precarious Stoddart Comedy
days; Kate Denin Wilson; Agnes Elliot; and Grace Wilson.

At the time he engaged the Wallack Theater Company Charles had no office. He was then living
at the Coleman House on Broadway, just opposite the then celebrated Gilsey House. Most of the
engagements were made as he sat in a big leather chair in the lobby, with one foot thrown over
an arm of it.

The principal capital that Charles had for this venture was five thousand dollars put up by
Daniel J. Bernstein, who became treasurer of the company. Alf Hayman, whom Frohman had met
in Philadelphia, was engaged as advance-agent.

It was a courageous undertaking even for a seasoned and well-financed theatrical veteran. Although
Lester Wallack was well known, his theater and its successes were not familiar to the great
mass of people outside New York. In those days theatrical publicity was not as widespread as
now. No wonder, then, that the daring of a young manager of twenty-five in taking out a company
whose weekly salary list was nearly thirteen hundred dollars was commented on.

Charles called his aggregation the Wallack Theater Company. The repertoire consisted mainly
of "Victor Durand," a play by Henry Guy Carleton which had been produced at Wallack's on December
13, 1884. Subsequently the company also played "Moths," "Lady Clare," "Diplomacy," and Belasco's
"La Belle Russe."

This tour, which was to write itself indelibly on the career of Charles Frohman, began in Chicago
and was continued through the South to New Orleans, where a stay of six weeks was made at the
St. Charles Theater. Belasco joined them here for a week to put on "The World," which had been
produced at Wallack's a short time before.

In New Orleans occurred one of those encounters in Charles Frohman's life that led to life-long
friendship. Two years before, while playing a Madison Square company at one of the theaters
in St. Louis, he had met a bright young man in the box-office named Augustus Thomas. Thomas
was then a newspaper man and was beginning to write plays. He told Charles that he had just
made a short play out of Frances Hodgson Burnett's story, "Editha's Burglar."

In New Orleans Charles discovered that young Thomas was playing in his own play at a near-by
theater and went over to see him. After the performance he visited him in his dressing-room,
renewed his acquaintance, and said to him with the optimism of youth:

"Mr. Thomas, I hope that some day you will write a play for me."

* * *

The company now made a tour of Texas, where the troubles began. Business declined, but Frohman
succeeded in landing the company in Chicago after a series of misfortunes. Here Sophie Eyre
retired and was succeeded by Louise Dillon as leading woman. Charles, of course, had no money
with which to buy costumes, so she pawned her jewels and used the proceeds. Sadie Bigelow took
her place as ingénue.

Charles now started his famous tour of the Northwest which rivaled the Stoddart days in hardship
and in humor. The Northern Pacific Railroad had just been opened to the coast, and Charles
followed the new route. A series of tragic, dramatic, and comic experiences began. The tour
was through the heart of the old cow country. One night, when the train was stalled by the
wrecking of a bridge near Miles City, Montana, a group of cowboys started to "shoot up" the
train. Frohman, with ready resource, singled out the leader and said:

"We've got a theatrical company here and we will give you a performance."

He got Rowland Buckstone to stand out on the prairie and recite "The Smuggler's Life," "The
Execution," and "The Sanguinary Pirate" by the light of a big bonfire which was built while
the show was going on. This tickled the cowboys and brought salvos of shots and shouts of laughter.

At Miles City occurred what might have been a serious episode. When the company reached the
hotel at about eleven in the morning Charles Wheatleigh, the "first old man," asked the hotel-keeper
what time breakfast was served. When he replied "Eight-thirty o'clock," Wheatleigh pounded
the desk and said:

"That is for farmers. When do artists eat?"

The clerk was a typical Westerner, and thought this was an insult. He made a lunge for Wheatleigh,
when Frohman stepped in and settled the difficulty in his usual suave and smiling way.

At Butte came another characteristic example of the Frohman enterprise and resource. It was
necessary at all hazards to get an audience. When Charles got there he found that the wife
of the leading gambler had died. He expressed so much sympathy for the bereaved man that he
was made a pall-bearer, and this act created such an impression on the townspeople that they
flocked to the theater at night.

At Missoula, Montana, Charles went out ahead of the show for a week. Approaching the treasurer
at the box-office, he said:

"Will you please let me have a hundred dollars on account of the show?"

"I can't," replied the man. "We haven't sold a single seat for any of your performances."

Frohman thought a moment and walked out of the lobby. All afternoon orders for seats began
to come in to the box-office. Late in the afternoon, when Frohman got back, the agent smiled
and said:

"Mr. Frohman, I can let you have that hundred dollars now. We are beginning to have quite an
advance sale."

Frohman had gone down-town and sent in the orders for the seats himself. He used fictitious names.

Now began a summer of hardships. With the utmost difficulty the company got to Portland, Oregon,
where Charles established a sort of headquarters. From this point he sent the company on short
tours. But business continued to be bad.

He started a series of "farewell" performances, as he did in Texas, and placarded the city
with the bills announcing "positively" closing performances. These bills were typical of the
publicity talents of Charles Frohman. He headed them "Good-by Engagements," and added the words,
"A Long, Lingering Farewell." Under "Favorites' Farewell" he printed the names of the members
of the company with the titles or parts in which they were known. "Good-by, Louise Dillon,
our Esmeralda"; "Good-by, Kate Denin Wilson, Pretty Lady Dolly"; "Good-by, Charles B. Wells,
Faithful Dave Hardy"; "Good-by, Rowland Buckstone, Some Other Man"--were typical illustrations
of his attempt to make a strong appeal for business.

Actual money in the company was a novelty. Bernstein's five thousand dollars had long since
vanished. When a member of the company wanted some cash it had to be extracted from the treasurer
in one-dollar instalments.

Despite the hardships, the utmost good humor and feeling prevailed. Most of the members of
the company were young; there was no bickering. They knew that Frohman's struggle was with
and for them. They called him "The Governor," and he always referred to them as his "nice little
company." All looked forward confidently to better days, and in this belief they were supported
and inspired by the cheery philosophy of the manager.

Charles's resource was tested daily. He had booked a near-by town for fair week, which always
meant good business. At last he had money in sight. The local manager, however, insisted upon
a great display of fancy printing. Charles was in a dilemma because he owed his printer a big
bill and he had no more lithographs on hand. A friend who was in advance of William Gillette's
play, "The Private Secretary," came along with a lot of his own paper. Charles borrowed a quantity
of it and also from the "Whose Baby Are You?" company, covered over these two titles with slips
containing the words "Lady Clare," the piece he was going to present. He billed the town with
great success and was able to keep going.

During the Portland sojourn Charles sent the company on to Salem, Oregon. While there, six
members had their photographs taken with a disconsolate look on their faces and with Buckstone
holding a dollar in his hand. They sent the picture to Frohman with the inscription:

"From your nice little company waiting for its salary."

At Portland, Oregon, A. D. Charlton, who was passenger agent of the Northern Pacific Railroad,
and who had been of great service to Charles in extricating him from various financial difficulties,
said to him one day:

"Frohman, I want you to meet a very promising little actress who is out here with her mother."

Frohman said he would be glad, and, accompanying Charlton to his office, was introduced to
Annie Adams, a well-known actress from Salt Lake City, and her wistful-eyed little daughter,
Maude. They were both members of the John McGuire Company. This was Charles Frohman's first
meeting with Maude Adams.

At Portland Frohman added "Two Orphans" and "Esmeralda" to the company's repertoire. But it
barely got them out of town at the really and truly "farewell."

* * *

Now began a return journey from Portland that was even more precarious than the trip out. Baggage
had to be sacrificed; there was scarcely any scenery. One "back drop" showing the interior
of a cathedral was used for every kind of scene, from a gambling-house to a ball-room. To the
financial hardship of the homeward trip was added real physical trial. Frohman showed in towns
wherever there was the least prospect of any kind of a house. The company therefore played
in skating-rinks, school-houses, even barns. In some places the members of the company had
to take the oil-lamps that served as footlights back in the makeshift dressing-rooms while
they dressed.

At Bozeman, Montana, occurred an incident which showed both the humor and the precariousness
of the situation. Frohman assembled the company in the waiting-room of the station and, stepping
up to the ticket-office, laid down one hundred and thirty dollars in cash.

"Where do you want to go?" asked the agent.

Shoving the money at him, Frohman said, "How far will this take us?"

The agent looked out of the window, counted up the company, and said, "To Billings."

Turning to the company, Frohman said, with a smile, "Ladies and gentlemen, we play Billings next."

Just then he received a telegram from Alf Hayman, who was on ahead of the company:

     What town shall I bill?

Frohman wired back:

     Bill Billings.

Hayman again wired:

     Have no printing and can get no credit. What shall I do?

Frohman's resource came into stead, for he telegraphed:

     Notify theaters that we are a high-class company from Wallack's
     Theater in New York and use no ordinary printing. We employ only
     newspapers and dodgers.

At Missoula, Montana, on their way back, a member of the company became dissatisfied and stood
with his associates at the station where two trains met, one for the east and one for the west.
As the train for the east slowed up the actor rushed toward it and, calling to the members
of the company, said:

"I am leaving you for good. You'll never get anywhere with Frohman."

The company, however, elected to stay with Frohman. In later years this actor fell into hardship.
Frohman singled him out, and from that time on until Frohman's death he had a good engagement
every year in a Frohman company.

At Bismarck, North Dakota, the company gave "Moths." In this play the spurned hero, a singer,
has a line which reads, "There are many marquises, but very few tenors."

Money had been so scarce for months that this remark was the last straw, so the company burst
into laughter, and the performance was nearly broken up. Frohman, who stood in the back of
the house, enjoyed it as much as the rest.

Through all these hardships Frohman remained serene and smiling. His unfailing optimism tided
over the dark days. The end came at Winona, Minnesota. The company had sacrificed everything
it could possibly sacrifice. Frohman borrowed a considerable sum from the railroad agent to
go to Chicago, where he obtained six hundred dollars from Frank Sanger. With this he paid the
friendly agent and brought the company back to New York.

Even the last lap of this disastrous journey was not without its humor. The men were all assembled
in the smoking-car on the way from Albany to New York. Frohman for once sat silent. When somebody
asked him why he looked so glum, he said, "I'm thinking of what I have got to face to-morrow."

Up spoke Wheatleigh, whose marital troubles were well known. He slapped Frohman on the back
and said:

"Charley, your troubles are slight. Think of me. I've got to face my wife to-morrow."

It was characteristic of Frohman's high sense of integrity that he gave his personal note to
each member of the company for back salary in full, and before five years passed had discharged
every debt.

* * *

On arriving in New York Charles had less than a dollar in his pocket, his clothes were worn,
and he looked generally much the worse for wear. On the street he met Belasco. They pooled
their finances and went to "Beefsteak John's," where they had a supper of kidney stew, pie,
and tea. They renewed the old experiences at O'Neil's restaurant and talked about what they
were going to do.

The next day Frohman was standing speculatively in front of the Coleman House when he met Jack
Rickaby, a noted theatrical figure of the time. Rickaby slapped the young man on the back and said:

"Frohman, I am glad you have had a good season. You're going to be a big man in this profession."

He shook Frohman's hand warmly and walked away.

It was the first cheering word that Frohman had heard. The news of his disastrous trip had
not become known. Always proud, he was glad of it. After Rickaby had shaken his hand he felt
something in it, and on looking he saw that the big-hearted manager had placed a hundred-dollar
bill there. Rickaby had known all along the story of the Wallack tour hardships, and it was
his way of expressing sympathy. Frohman afterward said it was the most touching moment in his
life. Speaking of this once, he said:

"That hundred-dollar bill looked bigger than any sum of money I have ever had since."

* * *

It was late in 1885 when Charles returned from the disastrous Wallack's Theater tour, bankrupt
in finance but almost over-capitalized in courage and plans for the future. Up to that time
he had no regular office. Like many of the managers of the day, his office was in his hat.
Now, for the first time, he set up an establishment of his own. It required no capital to embark
in the booking business in those days. Nerve and resiliency were the two principal requisites.

The first Frohman offices were at 1215 Broadway, in the same building that housed Daly's Theater.
In two small rooms on the second floor Charles Frohman laid the corner-stone of what in later
years became a chain of offices and interests that reached wherever the English language was
spoken on the stage. The interesting contrast here was that while Augustin Daly, then in the
heyday of his great success, was creating theatrical history on the stage below him, Charles
Frohman was beginning his real managerial career up-stairs.

Frohman's first associate was W. W. Randall, a San Francisco newspaper man whom he had met
in the Haverly's Minstrel days, in the mean time manager of "The Private Secretary" and several
of the Madison Square companies on the road. He was alert and aggressive and knew the technique
of the theatrical business.

Charles Frohman's policy was always pretentious, so he set up two distinct firms. One was the
"Randall's Theatrical Bureau, Charles Frohman and W. W. Randall, Managers," which was under
Randall's direction and which booked attractions for theaters throughout the country on a fee
basis. The other was called "Frohman & Randall, General Theatrical Managers." Its function
was to produce plays and was directly under Charles's supervision. The two firm names were
emblazoned on the door and business was started. Their first employee was Julius Cahn.

These offices have an historic interest aside from the fact that they were the first to be
occupied by Charles Frohman. Out of them grew really the whole modern system of booking attractions.
Up to that era theatrical booking methods were different from those of the present time; there
were no great centralized agencies to book attractions for strings of theaters covering the
entire country. Union Square was the Rialto, the heart and center of the booking business.
The out-of-town manager came there to fill his time for the season. Much of the booking was
done in a haphazard way on the sidewalk, and whole seasons were booked on the curb, merely
noted in pocket note-books. Two methods of booking were then in vogue: one by the manager of
a company who wrote from New York to the towns for time; the other through an agent of out-of-town
house managers located in New York. It was this latter system that Frohman and Randall began
to develop in a scientific fashion. Charles's extensive experience on the road and his knowledge
of the theatrical status of the different towns made him a valuable agent.

Frohman and Randall at that time practically had the field to themselves. Brooks & Dickson,
an older firm which included the well-known Joseph Brooks of later managerial fame, had conducted
the first booking-office of any consequence, but had now retired. H. S. Taylor had just established
on Fourteenth Street Taylor's Theatrical Exchange, destined to figure in theatrical history
as the forerunner of the Klaw & Erlanger business.

Despite the high-sounding titles on the door, the Frohman offices were unpretentious. Frohman
and Randall had a desk apiece, and there was a second-hand iron safe in the corner. When Frohman
was asked, one day soon after the shingle had been hung out, what the safe was for, he replied,
with his characteristic humor:

"We keep the coal-scuttle in it."

As a matter of fact there was more truth than poetry in this remark, because the office assets
were so low that during the winter the firm had to burn gas all day to keep warm. When asked
the reason for this, Frohman said, jocularly:

"We can get more credit if we use gas, because the gas bill has to be paid only once a month.
Coal is cash."

Indeed, the office was so cold during that season that it came to be known in the profession
as the "Cave of the Winds," and this title was no reflection on the vocal qualities of the
proprietors.

It was during those early and precarious days when Frohman was still saddled with the debts
of the Wallack's tour that one of the most amusing incidents of his life happened. One morning
he was served with the notice of a supplementary proceeding which had been instituted against
him. He was always afraid of the courts, and he was much alarmed. He rushed across the street
to the Gilsey House and consulted Henry E. Dixey, the actor, who was living there. Dixey's
advice was to get a lawyer. Together they returned to the Daly's Theater Building, where Frohman
knew a lawyer was installed on the top floor. They found the lawyer blacking that portion of
his white socks that appeared through the holes in his shoes.

Frohman stated his case, which the lawyer accepted. He then demanded a two-dollar fee. Frohman
had only one dollar in his pocket and borrowed the other dollar from Dixey.

"This money," said the lawyer, "is to be paid into the court. How about my fee?"

Frohman fumbled in his pocket and produced a ten-cent piece. He handed it to the lawyer, saying:
"I will pay you later on. Here is your car-fare. Be sure to get to court before it opens."

Frohman and Dixey left. Frohman was much agitated. They walked around the block several times.
When he heard the clock strike ten he said to Dixey:

"Now the lawyer is in the court-room and the matter is being settled." In his expansive relief
he said: "I have credit at Browne's Chop House. Let us go over and have breakfast."

At the restaurant they ordered a modest meal. As Frohman looked up from his table he saw a
man sitting directly opposite whose face was hid behind a newspaper. In front of him was a
pile of wheat-cakes about a foot high.

"Gee whiz!" said Frohman. "I wish I had enough money to buy a stack of wheat-cakes that high."

As he said this to Dixey the man opposite happened to lower his paper and revealed himself
to be the lawyer Frohman had just engaged. He was having a breakfast spree himself with the
two dollars extracted from his two recent clients.

* * *

Business began to pick up with the new year. The first, and what afterward proved to be the
most profitable, clients of the booking-office were the Baldwin and California theaters in
San Francisco. They were dominated by Al Hayman, brother of Alf, a man who now came intimately
into Charles Frohman's life and remained so until the end. He was a Philadelphian who had conducted
various traveling theatrical enterprises in Australia and had met Frohman for the first time
in London when the latter went over with the Haverly Mastodons. Hayman admired Frohman very
much and soon made him general Eastern representative of all his extensive Pacific coast interests.

Hayman was developing into a magnate of importance. With his assistance Charles was able to
book a company all the way from New York to San Francisco. Charles made himself responsible
for the time between New York and Kansas City, while Hayman would guarantee the company's time
from Kansas City or Omaha to the coast.

Frohman and Randall made a good team, and they soon acquired a chain of more than three hundred
theaters, ranging from music-halls in small towns that booked the ten-twenty-thirty-cent dramas
up to the palatial houses like Hooley's in Chicago, the Hollis in Boston, and the Baldwin in
San Francisco.

It was a happy-go-lucky time. If Frohman had ten dollars in his pocket to spare he considered
himself rich. Money then, as always, meant very little to him. It came and went easily.

* * *

While the booking business waxed in volume the production end of the establishment did not
fare so well. Charles had this activity of the office as his particular domain, and with the
instinct of the plunger now began to put on plays right and left.

Just before the association with Randall, Frohman had become manager of Neil Burgess, the actor,
and had booked him for a tour in a play called "Vim." A disagreement followed, and Frohman
turned him over to George W. Lederer, who took the play out to the coast.

A year after this episode came the first of the many opportunities for fortune that Charles
Frohman turned down in the course of his eventful life. This is the way it happened:

Burgess, who was quite an inventive person, had patented the treadmill mechanism to represent
horse-racing on the stage, a device which was afterward used with such great effect in "Ben-Hur."
He was so much impressed with it that he had a play written around it called "The County Fair."

Burgess, who liked Frohman immensely, tried to get him to take charge of this piece, but Frohman
would not listen to the proposition about the mechanical device. He was unhappy over his experience
about "Vim," and whenever Burgess tried to talk "The County Fair" and its machine Frohman would
put him off.

Burgess finally went elsewhere, and, as most people know, "The County Fair" almost rivaled
"The Old Homestead" in money-making ability. The horse-racing scene became the most-talked-of
episode on the stage at the time, and Burgess cleared more than a quarter of a million dollars
out of the enterprise. Charles Frohman afterward admitted that his prejudice against Burgess
and his machine had cost his office at least one hundred thousand dollars.

* * *

Frohman and Randall now launched an important venture. McKee Rankin, who was one of the best-known
players of the time, induced them to become his managers in a piece called "The Golden Giant,"
by Clay M. Greene. Charles, however, agreed to the proposition on the condition that Rankin
would put his wife, Kitty Blanchard, in the cast. They had been estranged, and Frohman, with
his natural shrewdness, believed that the stage reunion of Mr. and Mrs. McKee Rankin would
be a great drawing-card for the play. Rankin made the arrangements, and the Fifth Avenue Theater
was booked for two weeks, commencing Easter Monday, 1886.

The theater was then under the management of John Stetson, of Boston, and both Frohman and
Rankin looked forward to doing a great business. In this cast Robert Hilliard, who had been
a clever amateur actor in Brooklyn, made his first professional appearance. Charles supervised
the rehearsals and had rosy visions of a big success. At four o'clock, however, on the afternoon
of the opening night, Charles went to the box-office and discovered the advance sale had been
only one hundred dollars.

"I tell you what to do, Randall," quickly thought out Frohman, "if Stetson will stand for it
we will paper the house to the doors. We must open to a capacity audience."

When Frohman put the matter before Stetson he said he did not believe in "second-hand reconciliations,"
but assented to the plan. Frohman gave Randall six hundred seats, and the latter put them into
good hands. The première of "The Golden Giant," to all intents and purposes, took place before
a crowded and paying house. In reality there was exactly two hundred and eighty-eight dollars
in the box-office. Business picked up, however, and the two weeks' engagement proved prosperous.
The play failed on the road, however, and the Frohman offices lost over five thousand dollars
on the venture. Rankin had agreed to pay Frohman forty per cent. of the losses. That agreement
remained in force all his life, for it was never paid.

In Charles's next venture he launched his first star. Curiously enough, the star was Tony Hart,
a member of the famous Irish team of Harrigan and Hart, who had delighted the boyhood of Frohman
when he used to slip away on Saturday nights and revel in a show.

Tony Hart, during the interim, had separated from Harrigan, and in some way Charles obtained
the manuscript of a farce-comedy by William Gill called "A Toy Pistol."

Charles had never lost his admiration for Hart, and when he saw that the leading character
had to impersonate an Italian, a young Hebrew, an Irishwoman, and a Chinaman, Frohman said,
"Tony Hart is the very person."

Accordingly, he engaged Hart and a company which included J. B. Mackey, F. R. Jackson, T. J.
Cronin, D. G. Longworth, Annie Adams, Annie Alliston, Mattie Ferguson, Bertie Amberg, Eva Grenville,
Vera Wilson, Minnie Williams, and Lena Merville.

This production had an influence on Charles Frohman's life far greater than the association
with his first star, for Annie Adams now began a more or less continuous connection with Charles
Frohman's companies. Her daughter, the little girl whom Charles had met casually years before,
was now about to make her first New York appearance as member of a traveling company in "The
Paymaster." Already the energetic mother was importuning Charles to engage the daughter. His
answer was, "I'll give her a chance as soon as I can." He little dreamed that this wisp of
a girl was to become in later years his most profitable and best-known star.

Charles was, of course, keenly interested in "A Toy Pistol." He conducted the rehearsals, and
on February 20, 1886, produced it at what was then called the New York Comedy Theater. It failed,
however. The New York Comedy Theater was originally a large billiard-hall in the Gilsey Building,
on Broadway between Twenty-eighth and Twenty-ninth streets, and had been first named the San
Francisco Minstrel Hall. It became successively Haverly's Comedy Theater and the New York Comedy
Theater. Subsequently, it was known as Hermann's Theater, and was the scene of many of the
earlier Charles Frohman productions.

* * *

Charles now became immersed in productions. About this time Archibald Clavering Gunter, who
had scored a sensational success with his books, especially "Mr. Barnes of New York," had written
a play called "A Wall Street Bandit," which had been produced with great success in San Francisco.
Frohman booked it for four weeks at the old Standard Theater, afterward the Manhattan, on a
very generous royalty basis, and plunged in his usual lavish style. He got together a magnificent
cast, which included Georgia Cayvan, W. J. Ferguson, Robert McWade, Charles Bowser, Charles
Wheatleigh, and Sadie Bigelow. The play opened to capacity and the indications were that the
engagement would be a success; but it suddenly fizzled out. On Sunday morning, when Charles
read the papers with their reviews of the week, he said to Randall, with his usual philosophy:

"We've got a magnificent frost, but it was worth doing."

This production cost the youthful manager ten thousand dollars.

* * *

Frohman still had control of "time" at the Standard, so he now put on a play, translated by
Henri Rochefort, called "A Daughter of Ireland," in which Georgia Cayvan had the title rôle.
Here he scored another failure, but his ardor remained undampened and he went on to what looked
at that moment to be the biggest thing he had yet tried.

Dion Boucicault was one of the great stage figures of his period. He was both actor and author,
and wrote or adapted several hundred plays, including such phenomenal successes as "Colleen
Bawn," "Shaughraun," which ran for a year simultaneously in London, New York, and Melbourne,
and "London Assurance." There was much talk of his latest comedy, "The Jilt." Frohman, who
always wanted to be associated with big names, now arranged by cable to produce this play at
the Standard. Once more he plunged on an expensive company which included, among others, Fritz
Williams, Louise Thorndyke, and Helen Bancroft.

For four weeks he cleared a thousand a week. Then he put the company on the road, where it
did absolutely nothing. Charles, who had an uncanny sense of analysis of play failures, now
declared that the reason for the failure was that theater-goers resented Boucicault's treatment
of his first wife, Agnes Robertson. Boucicault had declared that he was not the father of her
child, and when she sued him in England the courts gave her the verdict. Meanwhile Boucicault
married, and in the eyes of the world he was a bigamist. This experience, it is interesting
to add, taught Charles Frohman never to engage stars on whom there was the slightest smirch
of scandal or disrepute.

At Montreal Boucicault refused to continue the tour, and this engagement, like so many of its
predecessors, left Charles in a financial hole. Despite all these reverses he was able to make
a livelihood out of the booking end of the office, which thrived and grew with each month.
Nor was he without his sense of humor in those days.

One day he met a certain manager who had lost a great deal of money in comic opera. Frohman
said to him that he heard that there was much money in the comic-opera end of the business.

"So there is," replied the manager.

"You ought to know," responded Frohman, "for you have put enough into it."

This remark, often attributed to others, is said to have originated here.

* * *

Frohman was now an established producer, and although the tide of fortune had not gone altogether
happily with him, he had a Micawber-like conviction that the big thing would eventually turn
up. Now came his first contact with Bronson Howard, who, a few years later, was to be the first
mile-stone in his journey to fame and fortune.

Howard's name was one to conjure with. He had produced "Young Mrs. Winthrop," "The Banker's
Daughter," "Saratoga," and other great successes. Charles Frohman, yielding, as usual, to the
lure of big names, now put on Howard's play, "Baron Rudolph," for which George Knight had paid
the author three thousand dollars to rewrite. Knight gave Frohman a free hand in the matter
of casting the production, and it was put on at the Fourteenth Street Theater in an elaborate
fashion. The company included various people who later on were to become widely known. Among
them were George Knight and his wife, George Fawcett, Charles Bowser, and a very prepossessing
young man named Henry Woodruff.

"Baron Rudolph" proved to be a failure, and it broke Knight's heart, for shortly afterward
he was committed to an insane asylum from which he never emerged alive. It was found that while
the play was well written there was no sympathy for a ragged tramp.

Whether he thought it would change his luck or not, Charles now turned to a different sort
of enterprise. He had read in the newspapers about the astonishing mind-reading feats in England
of Washington Irving Bishop. Always on the lookout for something novel, he started a correspondence
with Bishop which ended in a contract by which he agreed to present Bishop in the United States
in 1887.

Bishop came over and Frohman sponsored his first appearance in New York on February 27, 1887,
at Wallack's Theater. With his genius for publicity, Frohman got an extraordinary amount of
advertising out of this engagement. Among other things he got Bishop to drive around New York
blindfolded. He invited well-known men to come and witness his marvelous gift in private. All
of which attracted a great deal of attention, but very little money to the box-office. Frohman
and Bishop differed about the conduct of the tour that was to follow, and M. B. Leavitt assumed
the management.

While at 1215 Broadway Charles Frohman established another of his many innovations by getting
out what was probably the first stylographic press sheet. This sheet, which contained news
of the various attractions that Frohman booked, was sent to the leading newspapers throughout
the country and was the forerunner of the avalanche of press matter that to-day is hurled at
dramatic editors everywhere.

* * *

The booking business had now grown so extensively that the office force was increased. First
came Julius Cahn, who assisted Randall with the booking. Al Hayman took a desk in Frohman's
office, which, because of Hayman's extensive California enterprises, had a virtual monopoly
on all Western booking.

Now developed a curious episode. Charles, with his devotion to big names, used the words "Daly's
Theater Building" on his letter-heads. This so infuriated Daly that he sent a peremptory message
to the landlord insisting that Frohman vacate the building. Frohman and Randall thereupon moved
their offices up the block to 1267 Broadway.

Charles Frohman made every possible capitalization of this change. Among other things he issued
a broadside, announcing the removal to new offices, and making the following characteristic
statement:

     Our agency, we are pleased to state, has been an established
     success from the very start. We now represent every important
     theater in the United States and Canada, as an inspection of our
     list will show, and we will always keep up the high standard of
     attractions that have been booked through this office, and we want
     the business of no others. Mr. E. E. Rice, the well-known manager
     and author, will have adjoining offices with us, and his
     attractions will be booked through our offices. We transact a
     general theatrical business (excepting that pertaining to a
     dramatic or actor's agency), and are in competition with no other
     exchange, booking agency, or dramatic concern. Neither do we have
     any desk-room to let, reserving all the space of our office for our
     own use.

Attached to this announcement was a list of theaters that he represented, which was a foot
long. He was also representing Archibald Clavering Gunter, who had followed up "A Wall Street
Bandit" with "Prince Karl," and Robert Buchanan, author of "Lady Clare" and "Alone in London."

Frohman and Randall stayed at 1267 Broadway for a year. Shortly before the next change Randall,
who had become extensively interested in outside enterprises, retired from the firm. His successor
as close associate with Charles Frohman was Harry Rockwood, ablest of the early Frohman lieutenants.

Rockwood was a distinguished-looking man and a tireless worker. The way he came to be associated
with Charles Frohman was interesting. His real name was H. Rockwood Hewitt, and he was related
to ex-Mayor Abram S. Hewitt of New York. He had had some experience in Wall Street, but became
infected with the theatrical virus.

One day in 1888 a well-groomed young man approached Gustave Frohman at the Fourteenth Street
Theater. He introduced himself as Harry Hewitt. He said to Frohman:

"My name is Hewitt. I would like to get into the theatrical business."

Gustave invited him to come around to the Madison Square Theater the next day, and asked him
what he would like to do.

"Oh, I should like to do anything."

Frohman then gave him an imaginary house to "count up."

Rockwood, who was an expert accountant, did the job with amazing swiftness. Whereupon Gustave
Frohman telephoned to Charles Frohman as follows:

"I've got the greatest treasurer in the world for you. Send for him."

Charles engaged him for a Madison Square Company, and in this way Rockwood's theatrical career
started. It was the fashion of many people of that time interested in the theatrical business
to change their names, so he became Harry Rockwood. In the same way Harry Hayman, brother of
Al and Alf Hayman, changed his name to Harry Mann.

In 1889 came the separation between Randall and Frohman. Randall set up an establishment of
his own at 1145 Broadway, while Charles, who was now an accredited and established personage
in the theatrical world, took a suite at 1127 Broadway, adjoining the old St. James Hotel.
In making this change he reached a crucial point in his career, for in these offices he conceived
and put into execution the spectacular enterprises that linked his name for the first time
with brilliant success.

VI

"SHENANDOAH" AND THE FIRST STOCK COMPANY

With his installation in the new offices at 1127 Broadway there began an important epoch in
the life of Charles Frohman. The Nemesis which had seemed to pursue his productions now took
flight. The plump little man, not yet thirty, who had already lived a lifetime of strenuous
and varied endeavor, sat at a desk in a big room on the second floor, dreaming and planning
great things that were soon to be realized.

Although staggering under a burden of debt that would have discouraged most people, Frohman,
with his optimistic philosophy, felt that the hour had come at last when the tide would turn.
And it did. At this time his financial complications were at their worst. Some of them dated
back to the disastrous Wallack Company tour; others resulted from his impulsive generosity
in indorsing his friends' notes. He was so involved that he could not do business under his
own name, and for a period the firm went on as Al Hayman & Company.

One of the very first enterprises in the new offices cemented the friendship of Charles Frohman
and William Gillette. While at the Madison Square Theater he had booked Gillette's plays, "The
Professor" and "The Private Secretary." Frohman, with Al Hayman as partner, induced Gillette
to make a dramatization of Rider Haggard's "She," which was put on at Niblo's Garden in New
York with considerable success. Wilton Lackaye and Loie Fuller were in the cast.

Gillette now tried his hand at a war play called "Held by the Enemy," which Frohman booked
on the road. Frohman was strangely interested in "Held by the Enemy." It had all the thrill
and tumult of war and it lent itself to more or less spectacular production. When the road
tour ended, Frohman, on his own hook, took the piece and the company, which was headed by Gillette,
for an engagement at the Baldwin Theater in San Francisco. He transported all the original
scenery, which included, among other things, some massive wooden cannon.

The San Francisco critics, however, slated the piece unmercifully. The morning after the opening
Gillette stood in the lobby of the Palace Hotel with the newspapers in his hand and feeling
very disconsolate. Up bustled Frohman in his usual cheery fashion.

"Look what the critics have done to us," said Gillette, gloomily.

"But we've got all the best of it," replied Frohman, with animation.

"How's that?" asked Gillette, somewhat puzzled.

"They've got to stay here."

This little episode shows the buoyant way in which Frohman always met misfortune. His irresistible
humor was the oil that he invariably spread upon the troubled waters of discord and discouragement.

It was while selecting one of the casts of "Held by the Enemy," which was revived many times,
that Charles Frohman made two more life-long connections.

At the same boarding-house with Julius Cahn lived an ambitious young man who had had some experience
as an actor. He was out of a position, so Cahn said to him one day:

"Come over to our offices and Charles Frohman will give you a job."

The young man came over, and Cahn introduced him to Frohman. Soon he came out, apparently very
indignant. When Cahn asked him what was the matter he said:

"That man Frohman offered me the part of a nigger, Uncle Rufus, in that play. I was born in
the South, and I will not play a nigger. I would rather starve."

Cahn said, "You will play it, and your salary will be forty dollars a week."

The young man reluctantly accepted the engagement and proved to be not only a satisfactory
actor, but a man gifted with a marvelous instinct as stage-director. His name was Joseph Humphreys,
and he became in a few years the general stage-director for Charles Frohman, the most distinguished
position of its kind in the country, which he held until his death.

About this time Charles Frohman renewed his acquaintance with Augustus Thomas. Thomas walked
into the office one day and Rockwood said to him:

"You are the very man we want to play in 'Held by the Enemy.'"

Thomas immediately went in to see Frohman, who offered him the position of General Stamburg,
but Thomas had an engagement in his own play, "The Burglar," which was the expanded "Editha's
Burglar," and could not accept. Before he left, however, Frohman, whose mind was always full
of projects for the future, renewed the offer made in New Orleans, for he said:

"Thomas, I still want you to write that play for me."

* * *

With "Held by the Enemy" Charles Frohman seemed to have found a magic touchstone. It was both
patriotic and profitable, for it was nothing less than the American flag. Having raised it
in one production, he now turned to the enterprise which unfurled his success to the winds
in brilliant and stirring fashion.

Early in 1889 R. M. Field put on a new military play called "Shenandoah," by Bronson Howard,
at the Boston Museum. Howard was then the most important writer in the dramatic profession.
He had three big successes, "Young Mrs. Winthrop," "Saratoga," and "The Banker's Daughter,"
to his credit, and he had put an immense amount of work and hope into the stirring military
drama that was to have such an important bearing on the career of Charles Frohman. The story
of Frohman's connection with this play is one of the most picturesque and romantic in the whole
history of modern theatrical successes. He found it a Cinderella of the stage; he proved to
be its Prince Charming.

Oddly enough, "Shenandoah" was a failure in Boston. Three eminent managers, A. M. Palmer, T.
Henry French, and Henry E. Abbey, in succession had had options on the play, and they were
a unit in believing that it would not go.

Daniel Frohman had seen the piece at Boston with a view to considering it for the Lyceum. He
told his brother Charles of the play, and advised him to go up and see it, adding that it was
too big and melodramatic for the somewhat intimate scope of the small Lyceum stage.

So Charles went to Boston. On the day of the night on which he started he met Joseph Brooks
on Broadway and told him he was going to Boston to try to get "Shenandoah."

"Why, Charley, you are crazy! It is a failure! Why throw away your money on it? Nobody wants it."

"I may be crazy," replied Frohman, "but I am going to try my best to get 'Shenandoah.'"

Before going to Boston he arranged with Al Hayman to take a half-interest in the play. When
he reached Boston he went out to the house of Isaac B. Rich, who was then associated with William
Harris in the conduct of the Howard Athenæum and the Hollis Street Theater. Rich was a character
in his way. He had been a printer in Bangor, Maine, had sold tickets in a New Orleans theater,
and had already amassed a fortune in his Boston enterprises. He was an ardent spiritualist,
and financed and gave much time to a spiritualistic publication of Boston called The Banner
of Light. One of his theatrical associates at that time, John Stetson, owned The Police Gazette.

Rich conceived a great admiration for Frohman, whom he had met with Harris in booking plays
for his Boston houses. He always maintained that Frohman was the counterpart of Napoleon, and
called him Napoleon.

On this memorable day in Boston Frohman dined with Rich at his house and took him to see "Shenandoah."
When it was over Frohman asked him what he thought of it.

"I'll take any part of it that you say," replied Rich.

"If I were alone," answered Frohman, "I would take you in, but I have already given Al Hayman
half of it."

Frohman was very much impressed with "Shenandoah," although he did not believe the play was
yet in shape for success. After the performance he asked Mr. Field if he could get the rights.
Field replied:

"Abbey, French, and Palmer have options on it. If they don't want it you can have it."

Frohman returned to New York the next day, and even before he had seen Bronson Howard he looked
up his friend Charles Burnham, then manager of the Star Theater, and asked him to save him
some time.

Frohman now went to see Howard, who then lived at Stamford.

When he had finished, Howard spoke up warmly and said, "Mr. Frohman, you are right, and I shall
be very glad to adopt your suggestions."

The very changes that Howard made in the play were the ones that helped to make it a great
success, as he was afterward frank enough to admit.

Frohman now made a contract for the play and went to Burnham to book time. Burnham, meanwhile,
had been to Boston to see the play, and he said:

"I saved six weeks for you at the Star for Shenandoah.'"

From the very beginning of his association with "Shenandoah" Charles Frohman had an instinct
that the play would be a success. He now dedicated himself to its production with characteristic
energy.

Scarcely had he signed the contract for "Shenandoah" than occurred one of the many curious
pranks of fate that were associated with this enterprise. Al Hayman, who had a half-interest
in the piece, was stricken with typhoid fever in Chicago on his way to the coast. He thought
he was going to die, and, not having an extraordinary amount of confidence in "Shenandoah,"
he sold half of his half-interest to R. M. Hooley, who owned theaters bearing his name in Chicago
and Brooklyn.

With his usual determination to do things in splendid fashion, Frohman engaged a magnificent
cast. Now came one of the many evidences of the integrity of his word. Years before, when he
had first seen Henry Miller act in San Francisco he said to him:

"When I get a theater in New York and have a big Broadway production you will be my leading man."

He had not yet acquired the theater, but he did have the big Broadway production, so the first
male character that he filled was that of Colonel West, and he did it with Miller.

This cast included not less than half a dozen people who were then making their way toward
future stardom. He engaged Wilton Lackaye to play General Haverill; Viola Allen played Gertrude
Ellingham; Nanette Comstock was the original Madeline West; Effie Shannon portrayed Jennie
Buckthorn; while Dorothy Dorr played Mrs. Haverill. Other actors in the company who later became
widely known were John E. Kellard, Harry Harwood, Morton Selten, and Harry Thorn.

Charles determined that the public should not lose sight of "Shenandoah." All his genius for
publicity was concentrated to this end. Among the ingenious agencies that he created for arousing
suspense and interest was a rumor that the manuscript of the third act had been lost. He put
forth the news that Mr. Howard's copy was mislaid, and a city-wide search was instituted. All
the while that the company was rehearsing the other acts the anxiety about the missing act
grew. A week before the production Frohman announced, with great effect, that the missing manuscript
had been found.

When the doors of the Star Theater were opened on the evening of September 9, 1889, for the
first performance of "Shenandoah," the outlook was not very auspicious. Rain poured in torrents.
It was almost impossible to get a cab. Al Hayman, one of the owners of the play, who lived
at the Hotel Majestic, on West Seventy-second Street, was rainbound and could not even see
the première of the piece.

However, a good audience swam through the deluge, for the gross receipts of this opening night,
despite the inclement conditions outside, were nine hundred and seventy-two dollars. This was
considered a very good house at the standard prices of the day, which ranged from twenty-five
cents to one dollar and a half.

The play was an immense success, for at no time during the rest of the engagement did the receipts
at any performance go below one thousand dollars. The average gross receipts for each week
were ten thousand dollars.

Charles Frohman watched the première from the rear of the house with a beating heart. The crash
of applause after the first act made him feel that he had scored at last. After the sensational
ending of the third act, which was Sheridan's famous ride, he rushed back to the stage, shook
Henry Miller warmly by the hand, and said: "Henry, we've got it. The horse is yours!"

He meant the horse that the general rode in the play.

This horse, by the way, was named Black Bess. It got so accustomed to its cue that it knew
when it had to gallop across the stage. One night during the third act this cue was given as
usual. Its rider, however, was not ready, and the horse galloped riderless across the stage.

"Shenandoah" led to a picturesque friendship in Charles Frohman's life. On the opening night
a grizzled, military-looking man sat in the audience. He watched the play with intense interest
and applauded vigorously. On the way out he met a friend in the lobby. He stopped him and said,
"This is the most interesting war play I have ever seen."

The friend knew Charles Frohman, who was standing with smiling face watching the crowd go out.
He called the little manager over and said: "Mr. Frohman, I want you to meet a man who really
knows something about the Civil War. This is General William T. Sherman."

Sherman and Frohman became great friends, and throughout the engagement of "Shenandoah" the
old soldier was a frequent visitor at the theater. He then lived at the Fifth Avenue Hotel,
and often he brought over his war-time comrades.

Not only did "Shenandoah" mark the epoch of the first real success in Frohman's life, but it
raised his whole standard of living, as the following incident will show.

When "Shenandoah" opened, Frohman and Henry Miller, and sometimes other members of the company,
went around to O'Neil's on Sixth Avenue, scene of the old foregatherings with Belasco, and
had supper. As the piece grew in prosperity and success, the supper party gradually moved up-town
to more expensive restaurants, until finally they were supping at Delmonico's. "We are going
up in the world," said Frohman, with his usual humor. At their first suppers they smoked ten-cent
cigars; now they regaled themselves with twenty-five-cent Perfectos.

Unfortunately the successful run of "Shenandoah" at the Star had to be terminated on October
12th because the Jefferson & Florence Company, which had a previous contract with the theater
and could not be disposed of elsewhere, came to play their annual engagement in "The Rivals."
Frohman transferred the play to Proctor's Twenty-third Street Theater, which was from this
time on to figure extensively in his fortunes, and the successful run of the play continued
there. Wilton Lackaye retired from the cast and was succeeded by Frank Burbeck, whose wife,
Nanette Comstock, succeeded Miss Shannon in the rôle of Jenny Buckthorn.

Frohman was now able to capitalize his brilliant road-company experience. The success of the
play now assured, he immediately organized a road company, in which appeared such prominent
actors as Joseph Holland, Frank Carlyle, and Percy Haswell. He established an innovation on
October 26th by having this company come over from Philadelphia, where it was playing, to act
in the New York house.

The two-hundred-and-fiftieth performance occurred on April 19, 1890, when the run ended. It
was a memorable night. Katherine Grey and Odette Tyler meanwhile had joined the company. The
theater was draped in flags, and General Sherman made a speech in which he praised the accuracy
of the production.

With his usual enterprise and resource, Charles Frohman introduced a distinct novelty on this
occasion. He had double and triple relays of characters for the farewell performance. Both
Lilla Vane and Odette Tyler, for example, acted the part of Gertrude Ellingham; Wilton Lackaye,
Frank Burbeck, and George Osborne played General Haverill; Alice Haines and Nanette Comstock
did Jenny Buckthorn; while Morton Selten and R. A. Roberts doubled as Captain Heartsease.

Frohman now put the original "Shenandoah" company on the road. Its first engagement was at
McVicker's Theater in Chicago. Frohman went along and took Bronson Howard with him.

Most of the Chicago critics liked "Shenandoah." But there was one exception, a brilliant Irishman
on The Tribune. Paul Potter, whose play, "The City Directory," was about to be produced in
Chicago, was a close friend of Howard. He wanted to do something for the Howard play, so he
got permission from Robert W. Patterson, editor in chief of The Tribune, to write a Sunday
page article about "Shenandoah." Frohman was immensely pleased, and through this he met Potter,
who became one of his intimates.

Then came the opening of Potter's play at the Chicago Opera House. Although Potter knew most
of the critics, there was a feeling that they would forget all friendship and do their worst.
Five minutes after the curtain went up the piece seemed doomed.

But an extraordinary thing happened. From a stage box suddenly came sounds of uncontrollable
mirth. The audience, and especially the critics, looked to see who was enjoying the play so
strenuously, and they beheld Charles Frohman and Bronson Howard. The critics were puzzled.
Here was a great playwright in the flush of an enormous success and a rising young manager
evidently enjoying the performance. The mentors of public taste were so impressed that they
praised the farce and started "The City Directory" on a career of remarkable success. Frohman
and Howard were repaying the good turn that Potter had done for "Shenandoah."

* * *

Charles Frohman now had a money-making success. "Shenandoah" was the dramatic talk of the whole
country; it did big business everywhere, and its courageous young producer came in for praise
and congratulation on all sides.

The manager might well have netted what was in those days a huge fortune out of this enterprise,
but his unswerving sense of honor led him to immediately discharge all his obligations. He
wiped out the Wallack's tour debts, and he eventually took up notes aggregating forty-two thousand
dollars that he had given to a well-known Chicago printer who had befriended him in years gone
by. What was most important, he was now free to unfurl his name to the breezes and to do business
"on his own."

* * *

Charles immediately launched himself on another sea of productions. The most important was
Gillette's "All the Comforts of Home," which he put on at Proctor's Twenty-third Street Theater.
Frohman had just acquired the lease of this theater. Already a big idea was simmering in his
mind, and the leasehold was essential to its consummation. On May 8, 1890, he produced the
new Gillette play, which scored a success.

This production marked another one of the many significant epochs in Frohman's life because
it witnessed the first appearance of little Maude Adams under the Charles Frohman management.

Frohman had seen Miss Adams in "The Paymaster" down at Niblo's and had been much taken with
her work. He had been unable, however, to find a part for her, so it was reserved for his brother
Daniel to give her the first Frohman engagement at thirty-five dollars a week in "Lord Chumley."
Subsequently Daniel released her so that she could appear in the same cast with her mother
in Hoyt's "The Midnight Bell."

While trying "All the Comforts of Home" on the road there occurred an amusing episode. Frohman,
who had been watching the rehearsals very carefully, said to Henry Miller, who was leading man:

"Henry, you are something of a matinée idol. I think it would help the play if you had a love
scene with Miss Adams."

Accompanied by Rockwood, Frohman visited Gillette at his home at Hartford, got him to write
the love scene, and then went on to Springfield, Massachusetts, for the "try-out."

That night the three assembled in the bleak drawing-room of the hotel. Frohman ordered a little
supper of ham sandwiches and sarsaparilla, after which he rehearsed the love scene, which simply
consisted of a tender little parting in a doorway. It served to bring out the wistful and appealing
tenderness that is one of Maude Adams's great qualities.

"All the Comforts of Home" ran in Proctor's Theater until October 18th. When the theater reopened
it disclosed a venture that linked the name of Charles Frohman with high and artistic effort--his
first stock company. With this organization he hoped to maintain the traditions established
by Augustin Daly, A. M. Palmer, Lester Wallack, and the Madison Square Company.

He projected the Charles Frohman Stock Company in his usual lavish way. He engaged De Mille
and Belasco to write the opening play. This was a very natural procedure: first, because of
his intimate friendship with Belasco, and, second, because De Mille and Belasco had proved
their skill as collaborators at Daniel Frohman's Lyceum Theater with such successes as "The
Wife," "The Charity Ball," and "Lord Chumley." The result of their new endeavors was "Men and
Women."

In this play the authors wrote in the part Dora especially for Maude Adams. They also created
a rôle for Mrs. Annie Adams.

The cast of "Men and Women," like that of "Shenandoah," was a striking one, and it contained
many names already established, or destined to figure prominently in theatrical history. Henry
Miller had been engaged for leading man, but he retired during the rehearsals, and his place
was taken by William Morris, who had appeared in the Charles Frohman production of "She" and
in the road company of "Held by the Enemy." In the company that Frohman selected were Frederick
de Belleville, who played Israel Cohen, one of the finest, if not the finest, Jewish characters
ever put on the stage; Orrin Johnson; Frank Mordaunt; Emmet Corrigan; J. C. Buckstone; and
C. Leslie Allen, brother of Viola Allen.

In addition to Maude Adams were Sydney Armstrong, who was the leading woman; Odette Tyler;
and Etta Hawkins, who became the wife of William Morris during this engagement.

At the dress rehearsal of "Men and Women" occurred a characteristic Charles Frohman incident.
When the curtain had gone down Frohman hurried back to William Morris's dressing-room and said,
"Will, that dress-suit of yours doesn't look right."

"It's a brand-new suit, 'C. F.,'" he replied.

Frohman thought a moment and said: "Can you be at my office to-morrow morning at eight o'clock?
I've got a good tailor."

Promptly at eight the next day they went over to Frohman's tailor, whom Frohman addressed as
follows:

"I want you to make a dress-suit for William Morris by eight o'clock to-morrow night."

"Impossible!" said the man.

"Nothing is impossible," said Frohman. "If that dress-suit is not in Mr. Morris's dressing-room
at eight o'clock you won't get paid for it."

The dress-suit showed up on time, and in it was a card, saying, "With Charles Frohman's compliments."

Charles inaugurated his first stock season at Proctor's on October 21, 1890. Although the notices
were uniformly good, the start into public favor was a trifle slow. One reason was that a big
bank failure had just shaken Wall Street, and there was considerable apprehension all over
the city. By a curious coincidence there was a bank failure in the play. By clever publicity
this fact was capitalized; the piece found its stride and ran for two hundred consecutive performances,
when it was sent on the road with great success.

For this tour Charles also introduced another one of the many novelties that he put into theatrical
conduct. He ordered a private car for the company, and they used it throughout the tour. It
was considered an extravagance, but it was merely part of the Charles Frohman policy to make
his people comfortable. With this private car he established a precedent that was observed
in most of his traveling organizations.

* * *

With the stock company on tour in "Men and Women," the manager now organized the Charles Frohman
Comedy Company to fill in the time at Proctor's. Once more he collected a brilliant aggregation
of players, for they included Henrietta Crosman, Joseph Holland, Frederick Bond, and Thomas
Wise. Each one became a star in the course of the next ten years.

The opening bill for the comedy company was Gillette's "Mr. Wilkinson's Widows," and was presented
on March 30th, immediately following the run of "Men and Women." Henrietta Crosman subsequently
withdrew from the cast, and Esther Lyons took her place.

Charles Frohman reopened the theater on August 27th with a revival of this play, in which Georgia
Drew Barrymore, the mother of Ethel, appeared as Mrs. Perrin. Emily Bancker, afterward a star
in "Our Flat," and Mattie Ferguson were in the cast.

On October 5th the company did Sardou's big drama of "Thermidor" for the first time on any
stage, with another one of the casts for which Charles Frohman was beginning to become famous.
It included a thin, gaunt Englishman whose name in the bill was simply J. F. Robertson, and
who had just come from an engagement with John Hare in London. Subsequently the J. F. in his
name came to be known as Johnston Forbes, because the man was Sir Johnston Forbes-Robertson.

In this company was Elsie De Wolfe, who later became a star and who years after left the theater
to become an interior decorator. Among the male members of the company, besides Forbes-Robertson,
was Jamison Lee Finney, who had graduated from the amateur ranks and who became one of the
best-known comedians in the country.

In the mean time Charles had commissioned Henry C. De Mille to furnish a play for his stock
company which was now on its way back from the coast. This play was "The Lost Paradise," which
the American had adapted from Ludwig Fulda's drama. De Mille joined the company in Denver and
rehearsals were begun there. By the time the company reached New York they were almost letter-perfect,
and the opening at Proctor's on November 16th was a brilliant success. The play ran consecutively
until March 1st.

The cast was practically the same as "Men and Women," with the addition of Cyril Scott, Odette
Tyler, and Bijou Fernandez.

In "The Lost Paradise" Maude Adams scored the biggest success that she had made up to that
time in New York. She played the part of Nell, the consumptive factory girl. This character,
with its delicate and haunting interpretation, made an irresistible appeal to the audience.

"There's big talent in that girl," said Frohman in speaking of Miss Adams. He began to see
the vision of what the years would hold for her.

* * *

By this time Charles Frohman had begun to make his annual visit to London. Out of one of the
earliest journeys came still another success of the many that now seemed to crowd upon him.

He had taken desk space with Abbey, Schoeffel & Grau in Henrietta Street in London. On the
trip in question Belasco accompanied him. One night Frohman said:

"There is a little comedy around the corner called 'Jane.' Let's go and see it."

Frohman was convulsed with laughter, and the very next day sought out the author, William Lestocq,
from whom he purchased the American rights. Out of this connection came another one of the
life-long friendships of Frohman. Lestocq, a few years later, became his principal English
representative and remained so until the end.

Frohman was now in a whirlpool of projects. Although he was occupying himself with both the
comedy and stock companies at Proctor's, he put on "Jane" as a midsummer attraction at the
Madison Square Theater with a cast that included Katherine Grey, Johnstone Bennett, Jennie
Weathersby, and Paul Arthur.

"Jane" became such an enormous success that Charles put out two road companies at once. In
connection with "Jane" it may be said that his first real fortune--that is, the first money
that he actually kept for a time--was made with this comedy.

Production after production now marked the Frohman career. Charles had always admired Henry
E. Dixey, so he launched him as star in "The Solicitor" at Hermann's Theater, on September
8, 1891. It was the first time that the famous "Charles Frohman Presents" was used. In this
company were Burr McIntosh, Sidney Drew, and Joseph Humphreys. It was the failure of "The Solicitor"
that led Frohman to put Dixey out again as star in a piece called "The Man with a Hundred Heads"
at the Star Theater. This also failed, so he ventured with "The Junior Partner" at the same
theater with a cast that included E. J. Ratcliffe, Mrs. McKee Rankin, Henrietta Crosman, and
Louise Thorndyke-Boucicault.

Early the following year he tried his luck at Hermann's with "Gloriana," in which May Robson
and E. J. Henley appeared. Hermann's Theater, however, seemed to be a sort of hoodoo, so Frohman
returned to the Star, which had been his mascot, and made his first joint production with David
Belasco in a musical piece called "Miss Helyett." Frohman had seen the play in Paris, and proceeded
at once to buy the American rights from Charles Wyndham. This production not only marked the
first joint presentation of Belasco and Charles, but it was the début of Mrs. Leslie Carter,
who had become a protégée of Mr. Belasco. When the piece was moved to the Standard early in
January, 1892, Mrs. Carter was starred for the first time.

* * *

By this time Charles Frohman was a personage to be reckoned with. "Shenandoah," the two stock
companies, "Jane," and all the other enterprises both successful and otherwise, had made his
name a big one in the theater. He now began to reach out for authors.

The first author to be approached was Augustus Thomas. He gave Charles a play called "Surrender."
It was put on in Boston. The original idea in Thomas's mind was to write a satire on the war
plays that had been so successful, like "Shenandoah" and "Held by the Enemy." "Surrender" began
as a farce, but Charles Frohman and Eugene Presbrey, who produced it, wanted to make it serious.

The cast was a very notable one, including Clement Bainbridge, E. M. Holland, Burr McIntosh,
Harry Woodruff, H. D. Blackmore, Louis Aldrich, Maude Bancks, Miriam O'Leary, Jessie Busley,
and Rose Eytinge.

The rehearsals of "Surrender" were marked by many amusing episodes. Maude Bancks, for example,
who was playing the part of a Northern girl in a Southern town, had to wear a red sash to indicate
her Northern proclivities. This she refused to put on at the dress rehearsal because it did
not match her costume. Bainbridge, an actor who played a Southern general, had a speech that
he regarded as treason to his adopted country, and quit. But all these troubles were bridged
over and the play was produced with some artistic success. It lasted sixteen weeks on the road.

After he had closed "Surrender" Frohman was telling a friend in New York that he had lost twenty-eight
thousand dollars on this piece.

"But why did you permit yourself to lose so much money on a play that seemed bound to fail?"

"I believe in Gus Thomas. That is the reason," replied Frohman.

* * *

Although immersed in a multitude of enterprises, Frohman's activities now took a new and significant
tack. Through all these crowded years his friendship for William Harris had been growing. Harris,
who had graduated from minstrelsy to theatrical management and was the partner of Isaac B.
Rich in the conduct of the Howard Athenæum and the Hollis Street Theater in Boston, now added
the Columbia Theater in that city to his string of houses. Charles at once secured an interest
in this lease, and it was his first out-of-town theater. Quick to capitalize the opportunity,
he put one of the "Jane" road companies in it for a run and called it the Charles Frohman Boston
Stock Company.

VII

JOHN DREW AND THE EMPIRE THEATER

The year 1892 not only found Charles Frohman established as an important play-producing manager,
but in addition he was reaching out for widespread theater management. It was to register a
memorable epoch in the life of Charles and to record, through him, a significant era in the
history of the American theater. From this time on his life-story was to be the narrative of
the larger development of the drama and its people.

With the acquisition of his first big star, John Drew, he laid the corner-stone of what is
the so-called modern starring system, which brought about a revolution in theatrical conduct.
The story of Charles's conquest in securing the management of Drew, with all its attendant
dramatic and sensational features, illustrates the resource and vision of the one-time minstrel
manager who now began to come into his own as a real Napoleon of the stage.

Charles always attached importance and value to big names. He had paid dearly in the past for
this proclivity with the Lester Wallack Company. Undaunted, he now turned to another investment
in name that was to be more successful.

About this time John Drew had made his way to a unique eminence on the American stage. A member
of a distinguished Philadelphia theatrical family, he had scored an instantaneous success on
his first appearance at home and had become the leading man of Augustin Daly's famous stock
company. He was one of "The Big Four" of that distinguished organization, which included Ada
Rehan, Mrs. G. H. Gilbert, and James Lewis. They were known as such in America and England.
Drew was regarded as the finest type of the so-called modern actor interpreting the gentleman
in the modern play. He shone in the drawing-room drama; he had a distinct following, and was
therefore an invaluable asset. The general impression was that he was wedded to the environment
that had proved so successful and was so congenial.

Charles knew Drew quite casually. Their first meeting was characteristic. It happened during
the great "Shenandoah" run. Henry Miller and Drew were old friends. It was Frohman's custom
in those days to have after-theater suppers on Saturday nights at his rooms in the old Hoffman
House, and sometimes a friendly game of cards.

One Saturday Miller called Frohman up and asked him if he could bring Drew down for supper.

"Certainly; with pleasure," said Frohman.

That night after the play Miller picked Drew up at Daly's and took him to the Hoffman House.
Knowing the way to the Frohman rooms, he started for them unannounced, when he was stopped
by a bell-boy, who said, "Mr. Frohman is expecting you in here," opening the door and ushering
the guests into a magnificent private suite that Frohman had engaged for the occasion. It was
the first step in the campaign for Drew.

Although Frohman was eager to secure Drew, he made no effort to lure the actor away from what
he believed was a very satisfactory connection.

As the friendship between the men grew, however, he discovered that Drew was becoming dissatisfied
with his arrangement at Daly's. Up to that time "The Big Four" shared in the profits of the
theater. Daly canceled this arrangement, and Drew suddenly realized that what seemed to be
a most attractive alliance really held out no future for him.

Drew's dissatisfaction was heightened by his realization that Augustin Daly's greatest work
and achievements were behind him. The famous old manager was undergoing that cycle of experience
which comes to all of his kind when the flood-tide of their success begins to ebb.

Drew was speculating about his future when Frohman heard of his state of mind. He now felt
that he would not be violating the ethics of the profession in making overtures looking to
an alliance. He did not make a direct offer, but sent a mutual friend, Frank Bennett, once
a member of the Daly company, who was then conducting the Arlington Hotel in Washington. Through
him Frohman made a proposition to Drew to become a star. The actor accepted the offer, and
a three-year contract was signed.

The capture of John Drew by Charles Frohman was more than a mere business stroke. Frohman never
forgot that the great Daly had succeeded in ousting him from his first booking-offices in the
Daly Theater Building. He found not a little humor in pre-empting the services of the Daly
leading man as a sort of reciprocal stroke.

When Drew told Daly that he had signed a contract with Frohman the then dictator of the American
stage could scarcely find words to express his astonishment. He assured Drew that he was making
the mistake of his life, because he regarded Frohman as an unlicensed interloper. Yet this
"interloper," from the moment of the Drew contract, began a new career of brilliant and artistic
development.

Frohman's starring arrangement with Drew created a sensation, both among the public and in
the profession. It broke up "The Big Four," for Drew left a gap at Daly's that could not be filled.

There was also a widespread feeling that while Drew had succeeded in a congenial environment,
and with an actress (Miss Rehan) who was admirably suited to him, he might not duplicate this
success amid new scenes. Hence arose much speculation about his leading woman. A dozen names
were bruited about.

Charles Frohman remained silent. He was keenly sensitive to the sensation he was creating,
and was biding his time to launch another. It came when he announced Maude Adams as John Drew's
leading woman. He had watched her development with eager and interested eye. She had made good
wherever he had placed her. Now he gave her what was up to this time her biggest chance. The
moment her name became bracketed with Drew's there was a feeling of satisfaction over the choice.
How wise Charles Frohman was in the whole Drew venture was about to be abundantly proved.

* * *

Charles Frohman not only made John Drew a star, but the nucleus of a whole system. It was a
time of rebirth for the whole American stage. Nearly all the old stars were gone or were passing
from view. Forrest, McCullough, Cushman, Janauschek were gone; Modjeska's power was waning;
Clara Morris was soon to leave the stage world; Lawrence Barrett and W.J. Florence were dead;
Edwin Booth had retired.

Frohman realized that with the passing of these stars there also passed the system that had
created them. He knew that the public--the new generation--wanted younger people, popular names--somebody
to talk about. He realized further that the public adored personality and that the strongest
prop that a play could get was a fascinating and magnetic human being, whether male or female.
The old stars had made themselves--risen from the ranks after years of service. Frohman saw
the opportunity to accelerate this advance by providing swift and spectacular recognition.
The new stars that were now to blossom into life under him owed their being to the initiative
and the vision of some one else. Thus he became the first of the star-makers.

Charles was now all excitement. He had the making of his first big star, and he proceeded to
launch him in truly magnificent fashion.

A play was needed that would bring out all those qualities that had made Drew shine in the
drawing-room drama. The very play itself was destined to mark an epoch in the life of a man
in the theater. Through Elizabeth Marbury, who had just launched herself as play-broker in
a little office on Twenty-fourth Street, around the corner from Charles Frohman's, his attention
was called to a French farcical comedy called "The Masked Ball," by Alexandre Bisson and Albert
Carre. Frohman liked the story and wanted it adapted for American production. It was the beginning
of his long patronage of French plays.

"I know a brilliant young man who could do this job for you very well," said Miss Marbury.

"What's his name?" asked Frohman.

"Clyde Fitch, and I believe he is going to have a great career," was the answer of his sponsor.

Fitch was given the commission. He did a most successful piece of adaptation, and in this Way
began the long and close relationship between the author of "Beau Brummel" (his first play)
and the man who, more than any other, did so much to advance his career.

For Drew's début under his management Charles spared no expense. In addition to Maude Adams,
the company included Harry Harwood (who was then coming into his own as a forceful and versatile
character actor), C. Leslie Allen, Mrs. Annie Adams, and Frank E. Lamb.

With his usual desire to do everything in a splendid way, Frohman arranged for Drew's début
at Palmer's Theater, the old Lester Wallack playhouse which was now under the management of
A. M. Palmer, then one of the shining figures in the American drama, and located opposite Drew's
former scenes of activity. Thus Drew's first stellar appearance was on a stage rich with tradition.

"The Masked Ball" opened October 3, 1892, in the presence of a representative audience. It
was an instantaneous success. Drew played with brilliancy and distinction, and Frohman's confidence
in him was amply justified.

The performance, however, had a human interest apart from the star. Maude Adams, for the first
time in her career, had a real Broadway opportunity, and she made the most of it in such a
fashion as to convince Frohman and every one else that before many years were past she, too,
would have her name up in electric lights. She played the part of Zuzanne Blondet, a more or
less frivolous person, and it was in distinct contrast with the character that she had just
abandoned, that of Nell, the consumptive factory-girl in "The Lost Paradise."

As Zuzanne in "The Masked Ball," Miss Adams went to a ball and assumed tipsiness in order to
influence her dissipated husband and achieve his ultimate reformation. The way she prepared
for this part was characteristic of the woman. She wore a hat with a long feather, and she
determined to make it a "tipsy feather." This feature became one of the comedy hits of the
play, but in order to achieve it she worked for days and days to bring about the desired effect.
The result of all this painstaking preparation was a brilliant performance. When the curtain
went down on that memorable night at Palmer's Theater the general impression was:

"Maude Adams will be the next Frohman star."

The morning after the opening Frohman went to John Drew and said: "Well, John, you don't need
me any more now. You're made."

"No, Charles; I shall need you always," was the reply.

Out of this engagement came the long and intimate friendship between Drew and Frohman. The
first contract, signed and sealed on that precarious day when Frohman was seeing the vision
of the modern star system, was the last formal bond between them. Though their negotiations
involved hundreds of thousands of dollars in the years that passed, there was never another
scrap of paper between them.

Seldom in the history of the American theater has another event been so productive of far-reaching
consequence as "The Masked Ball." It brought Clyde Fitch into contact with the man who was
to be his real sponsor; it made John Drew a star; it carried Maude Adams to the frontiers of
the stellar realm; it gave Charles Frohman a whole new and distinguished place in the theater.

Frohman was quick to follow up this success. With Drew he had made his first real bid for what
was known in those days as "the carriage trade"--that is, the patronage of the socially elect.
He hastened to clinch this with another stunning production at Palmer's. It was Bronson Howard's
play, "Aristocracy."

The play, produced on November 14, 1893, was done in Frohman's usual lavish way. The company
included not less than half a dozen people who were then making their way toward stardom--Wilton
Lackaye, Viola Allen, Blanche Walsh, William Faversham, Frederick Bond, Bruce McRae, Paul Arthur,
W. H. Thompson, J. W. Piggott. "Aristocracy" was Bronson Howard's reversion to the serenity
of the society drama after the spectacle of war. The first night's audience was fashionable.
The distinction of the cast lent much to the success of the occasion.

* * *

When John Drew called on Charles Frohman for the first time at his offices at 1127 Broadway,
his way was impeded by a bright-eyed, alert young office-boy who bore the unromantic name of
Peter Daly. He incarnated every ill to which his occupation seems to be heir. Without troubling
himself to find out if Mr. Frohman was in, he immediately said, after the grand fashion of
theatrical office-boys:

"Mr. Frohman is out and I don't know when he will return."

"But I have an engagement with Mr. Frohman," said Drew.

"You will have to wait," said the boy.

Drew cooled his heels outside while Frohman waited impatiently inside for him. When he emerged
at lunchtime he was surprised to find his man about to depart.

Daly was immediately discharged by Julius Cahn, who was office manager, but was promptly reinstated
the next day by Frohman, who had been greatly impressed with the boy's quick wit and intelligence.

This office-boy, it is interesting to relate, became Arnold Daly, the actor. No experience
of his life was perhaps more amusing or picturesque than the crowded year when he manned the
outside door of Charles Frohman's office. Instead of attending to business, he spent most of
his time writing burlesques on contemporary plays, which he solemnly submitted to Harry Rockwood,
the bookkeeper.

During these days occurred a now famous episode. Young Daly was luxuriously reclining in the
most comfortable chair in the reception-room one day when Louise Closser Hale, the actress,
entered and asked to see Charles Frohman.

"He is out," said Daly.

"May I wait for him?" asked the visitor.

"Yes," answered Daly, and the woman sat down.

After three hours had passed she asked Daly, "Where is Mr. Frohman?"

"He's in London," was the reply.

Afterward Daly became "dresser" for John Drew, the virus of the theater got into his system,
and before long he was an actor.

Thus even Charles Frohman's office-boys became stars.

* * *

Epochal as had been 1892, witnessing the first big Frohman star and a great artistic expansion,
the new year that now dawned realized another and still greater dream of Charles Frohman, for
it brought the dedication of his own New York theater at last, the famous Empire.

Ever since he had been launched in the metropolitan theatrical whirlpool, Frohman wanted a
New York theater. As a boy he had witnessed the glories of the Union Square Theater under Palmer;
as a road manager he had a part in the success of the Madison Square Theater activities; in
his early managerial days he had been associated with the Lester Wallack organization; he had
watched the later triumphs of the Lyceum Theater Company at home and on the road. Quite naturally
he came to the conviction that he was ready to operate and control a big theater of his own.

The way toward its consummation was this:

One day toward the end of the 'eighties, William Harris came to New York to see Frohman about
the booking of some attractions. He said:

"Charley, I want a theater in New York, and I know that you want one. Let's combine."

"All right," said Frohman. "You can get the Union Square. The lease is on the market."

"Very well," said Harris.

On the way down-stairs he met Al Hayman, who asked him where he was going.

"I am going over to lease the Union Square Theater," he replied.

"That's foolish," said Hayman. "Everything theatrical is going up-town."

"Well," answered Harris, "C. F. wants a theater, and I am determined that he shall have it,
so I am going over to get the Union Square."

"If you and Frohman want a theater that badly, I will build one for you," he responded.

"Where?" asked Harris.

"I've got some lots at Fortieth and Broadway, and it's a good site, even if it is away up-town."

They went back to Frohman's office, and here was hatched the plan for the Empire Theater.

"I can't go ahead on this matter without Rich," said Harris.

"All right," said Frohman. "Wire Rich."

Rich came down next day, and the final details were concluded for the building of the Empire.
Frank Sanger came in as a partner; thus the builders were Al Hayman, Frank Sanger, and William
Harris. Without the formality of a contract they turned it over to Charles Frohman with the
injunction that he could do with it as he pleased.

Frohman was in his element. He could now embark on another one of the favorite dream-enterprises.

He was like a child during the building of the theater. Every moment that he could spare from
his desk he would walk up the street and watch the demolition of the old houses that were to
make way for this structure. Often he would get Belasco and take him up the street to note
the progress. One night as they stood before the skeleton of the theater that stood gaunt and
gray in the gloom Charles said to his friend:

"David, just think; the great dream is coming true, and yet it's only a few years since we
sat at 'Beefsteak John's' with only forty-two cents between us."

Naturally, Frohman turned to Belasco for the play to open the Empire. His old friend was then
at work on "The Heart of Maryland" for Mrs. Leslie Carter. He explained the situation to Frohman.
As soon as Mrs. Carter heard of it she went to Frohman and told him that she would waive her
appearance and that Belasco must go ahead on the Empire play, which he did.

Just what kind of play to produce was the problem. Frohman still clung to the mascot of war.
The blue coat and brass buttons had turned the tide for him with "Shenandoah," and he was superstitious
in wanting another stirring and martial piece. Belasco had become interested in Indians, but
he also wanted to introduce the evening-clothes feature. Hence came the inspiration of a ball
at an army post in the far West during the Indian-fighting days. This episode proved to be
the big dramatic situation of the new piece.

Then came the night when Belasco read the play to Frohman, who walked up and down the floor.
When the author finished, Frohman rushed up to him with a brilliant smile on his face and said:

"David, you've done the whole business! You've got pepper and salt, soup, entrée, roast, salad,
dessert, coffee; it's a real play, and I know it will be a success."

Having finished the work, which Belasco wrote in collaboration with Franklin Fyles, then dramatic
editor of the New York Sun, they needed a striking name. So they sent the manuscript to Daniel,
down at the Lyceum, for Charles always declared he had been happy in the selection of play
titles. Back came the manuscript with his approval of the work, and with the title "The Girl
I Left Behind Me." This they eagerly adopted.

Long before "The Girl I Left Behind Me" manuscript was ready to leave Belasco's hands, Frohman
was assembling his company. Instead of having a star, he decided to have an all-round stock
company. The success of this kind of institution had been amply proved at Daly's, Wallack's,
the Madison Square, and the Lyceum. Hence the Charles Frohman Stock Company, which had scored
so heavily with "Men and Women" and "The Lost Paradise" at Proctor's Twenty-third Street Theater,
now became the famous Empire Theater Stock Company and incidentally the greatest of all star
factories. William Morris was retained as the first leading man, and the company included Orrin
Johnson, Cyril Scott, W. H. Thompson, Theodore Roberts, Sydney Armstrong, Odette Tyler, and
Edna Wallace. The child in the play was a precocious youngster called "Wally" Eddinger, who
is the familiar Wallace Eddinger of the present-day stage.

The rehearsals for "The Girl I Left Behind Me" were held in the Standard Theater, which Frohman
had already booked for productions, and were supervised by Belasco. Frohman, however, was always
on hand, and his suggestions were invaluable.

"The Girl I Left Behind Me" was tried out for a week at Washington. The company arrived there
on Sunday afternoon, but was unable to get the stage until midnight because Robert G. Ingersoll
was delivering a lecture there. At the outset of this rehearsal Belasco became ill and had
to retire to his bed, and Frohman took up the direction of this final rehearsal and worked
with the company until long after dawn.

The week in Washington rounded out the play thoroughly, and the company returned to New York
on the morning of January 25, 1893. Now came a characteristic example of Frohman's resource.
At noon it was discovered that the new electric-light installation was not yet complete. Added
to this was the disconcerting fact that the paint on the chairs was scarcely dry. Sanger, Harris,
and Rich urged Frohman to postpone the opening. "It will be useless to open under these conditions,"
they said.

"The Empire must open to-night," said Frohman, "if we have to open it by candle-light."

In saying this Charles Frohman emphasized what was one of his iron-clad rules, for he never
postponed an announced opening.

That January night was a memorable one in the life of Frohman. He sat on a low chair in the
wings, and alongside of him sat Belasco. His face beamed, yet he was very nervous, as he always
was on openings. At the end of the third act, when the audience made insistent calls for speeches,
Belasco tried to drag Frohman out, but he would not go. "You go, David," he said. And Belasco
went out and made a speech.

"The Girl I Left Behind Me" was a complete success, and played two hundred and eighty-eight
consecutive performances.

The opening of the Empire Theater strengthened Charles Frohman's position immensely. More than
this, it established a whole new theatrical district in New York. When it was opened there
was only one up-town theater, the Broadway. Within a few years other playhouses followed the
example of the Empire, and camped in its environs. Thus again Charles Frohman was a pioneer.

The Empire Theater now became the nerve-center of the Charles Frohman interests. He established
his offices on the third floor, and there they remained until his death. He practically occupied
the whole building, for his booking interests, which had now grown to great proportions, and
which were in charge of Julius Cahn, occupied a whole suite of offices. He now had his own
New York theater, a star of the first magnitude, and a stock company with a national reputation.

When the Empire Stock Company began its second season in the August of 1893, in R. C. Carton's
play, "Liberty Hall," Charles Frohman was able to keep the promise he had made to Henry Miller
back in the 'eighties in San Francisco. That handsome and dashing young actor now succeeded
William Morris as leading man of the stock company, Viola Allen became leading woman, and May
Robson also joined the company. "Liberty Hall" ran until the end of October, when David Belasco's
play, "The Younger Son," was put on. This added William Faversham to the ranks, and thus another
star possibility came under the sway of the Star-Maker.

The Empire became the apple of Charles Frohman's eye, and remained so until his death. No star
and no play was too good for it. On it he lavished wealth and genuine affection. To appear
with the Empire Stock Company was to be decorated with the Order of Theatrical Merit. To it
in turn came Robert Edison, Ethel Barrymore, Elita Proctor Otis, Jameson Lee Finney, Elsie
De Wolfe, W. J. Ferguson, Ferdinand Gottschalk, J. E. Dodson, Margaret Anglin, J. Henry Benrimo,
Ida Conquest, and Arthur Byron.

The Empire Stock Company became an accredited institution. A new play by it was a distinct
event, its annual tour to the larger cities an occasion that was eagerly awaited. To have a
play produced by it was the goal of the ambitious playwright, both here and abroad.

Through the playing of the Empire Company Frohman introduced Oscar Wilde to America, and with
the stock-company opportunities he developed such playwrights as Henry Arthur Jones, Haddon
Chambers, Sydney Grundy, Louis N. Parker, Madeline Lucette Ryley, Henry Guy Carleton, Clyde
Fitch, Jerome K. Jerome, and Arthur Wing Pinero.

Having firmly established the Empire Theater, Charles now turned to a myriad of enterprises.
He acquired the lease of the Standard Theater (afterward the Manhattan) and began there a series
of productions that was to have significant effect on his fortunes.

In May, 1893, he produced a comedy called "Fanny," by George R. Sims, of London, in which W.
J. Ferguson, Frank Burbeck, and Johnston Bennett appeared. It was a very dismal failure, but
it produced one of the famous Frohman epigrams. Sims sent Frohman the following telegram a
few days after the opening:

     How is Fanny going?

Whereupon Frohman sent this laconic reply:

     Gone.

Now came another historic episode in Frohman's career. He was making his annual visit to London.
The lure and love of the great city was in him and it grew with each succeeding pilgrimage.
He had learned to select successful English plays, as the case of "Jane" had proved. Now he
was to go further and capture one of his rarest prizes.

Just about this time Brandon Thomas's farce, "Charley's Aunt," had been played at the Globe
Theater as a Christmas attraction and was staggering along in great uncertainty. W. S. Penley,
who owned the rights, played the leading part.

Suddenly it became a success, and the "managerial Yankee birds," as they called the American
theatrical magnates, began to roost in London. All had their claws set for "Charley's Aunt."

Frohman had established an office in London at 4 Henrietta Street, in the vicinity of Covent
Garden. His friendship with W. Lestocq, the author of "Jane," developed. Lestocq, who was the
son of a publisher, and had graduated from a clever amateur actor into a professional, conceived
a great liking for Frohman. While all the American managers were angling for "Charley's Aunt,"
he went to Penley, who was his friend, and said:

"Frohman has done so well with 'Jane' in America, he is the man to do 'Charley's Aunt.'"

Penley agreed to hold up all his negotiations for the play until Frohman arrived. A conference
was held, and, through the instrumentality of Lestocq, Frohman secured the American rights
to "Charley's Aunt."

At the end of this meeting Lestocq said in jest, "What do I get out of this?"

"I'll show you," said Frohman. "You shall represent me in London hereafter."

Out of this conference came one of the longest and most loyal associations in Charles's career,
because from that hour until the day of his death Lestocq represented Charles Frohman in England
with a fidelity of purpose and a devotion of interest that were characteristic of the men who
knew and worked with Charles Frohman.

Frohman now returned to America to produce "Charley's Aunt." In spite of the success of the
Empire, Frohman had "plunged" in various ways, and had reached one of the numerous financial
crises in his life. He looked upon "Charley's Aunt" as the agency that was to again redeem
him. For the American production he imported Etienne Girardot, who had played the leading rôle
in the English production. He surrounded Girardot with an admirable cast, including W. J. Ferguson,
Frank Burbeck, Henry Woodruff, Nanette Comstock, and Jessie Busley.

Frohman personally rehearsed "Charley's Aunt." He tried it out first at Bethlehem, Pennsylvania,
where the reception was not particularly cordial. He returned to New York in a great state
of apprehension, although his good spirits were never dampened. On October 2, 1893, he produced
the play at the Standard, and it was an immediate success. As the curtain went down on the
first night's performance he assembled the company on the stage and made a short speech, thanking
them for their co-operation. It was the first time in his career that he had done this, and
it showed how keenly concerned he was. It was another "Shenandoah," because it recouped his
purse, depleted from numerous outside ventures, inspired him with a fresh zeal, and enabled
him to proceed with fresh enterprises. It ran for two hundred nights, and then duplicated its
New York success on the road.

While gunning for "Charley's Aunt," Charles Frohman made his first London production with "The
Lost Paradise." He put it on in partnership with the Gattis, at the Adelphi Theater in the
Strand. It was a failure, however, and it discouraged him from producing in England for some
little time.

These were the years when Frohman was making the few intimate friendships that would mean so
much to him until the closing hours of his life. That of Charles Dillingham is an important one.

Dillingham had been a newspaper man in Chicago at a time when George Ade, Peter Dunne, and
Frank Vanderlip (now president of the National City Bank) were his co-workers. He became secretary
to Senator Squire, and at Washington wrote a play called "Twelve P.M." A manager named Frank
Williams produced it in the old Bijou Theater, New York, just about the time that Charles Frohman
was presenting John Drew across the street in "The Masked Ball." Dillingham had previously
come on to New York, and his hopes, naturally, were in the play. "Twelve P.M." was a dismal
failure, but it brought two unusual men together who became bosom friends. It came about in
this extraordinary way:

During the second (and last) week of the engagement of "Twelve P.M." at the Bijou, Dillingham,
who came every night to see his play, noticed a short, stout, but important-looking man pass
into the playhouse.

"Who is that man?" he asked.

He was told it was Charles Frohman.

A few days later he received a letter from Frohman, which said:

     Your play lacks all form and construction, but I like the lines
     very much. Would you like to adapt a French farce for me?

Dillingham accepted this commission and thus met Frohman. Dillingham was then dramatic editor
of the New York Evening Sun. One day he called on Frohman and asked him to send him out with
a show.

"When do you want to go?"

"Right away."

"Very well," said Frohman, who would always have his little joke. "You can go to-morrow. I
would like to get you off that paper, anyhow. You write too many bad notices of my plays."

Dillingham first went out ahead of the Empire Stock Company and afterward in advance of John
Drew, in "That Imprudent Young Couple." He left the job, however, and soon returned to Frohman,
seeking other work.

"What would you like to do?" asked Frohman.

"Take my yacht and go to England," said Dillingham, facetiously.

"All right," said Frohman. "We sail Saturday," and handed him fifty thousand dollars in stage
money that happened to be lying on his desk. Dillingham thought at first he was joking, but
he was not. They sailed on the St. Paul. Frohman had just established his first offices in
Henrietta Street. There was not much business to transact, and the pair spent most of their
time seeing plays. Dillingham acted as a sort of secretary to Frohman.

One day a haughty Englishman came up to the offices and asked Dillingham to take in his card.

"I have no time," said Dillingham, whose sense of humor is proverbial.

"What have you to do?" asked the man.

"I've got to wash the office windows first," was the reply.

The Englishman became enraged, strode in to Frohman, and told him what Dillingham had said.
Frohman laughed so heartily that he almost rolled out of his chair. After the Englishman left
he went out and congratulated Dillingham on his jest. From that day dated a Damon and Pythias
friendship between the two men. They were almost inseparable companions.

The time was at hand for another big star to twinkle in the Frohman heaven. During all these
years William Gillette had developed in prestige and authority, both as actor and as playwright.
The quiet, thoughtful, scholarly-looking young actor who had knocked at the doors of the Madison
Square Theater with the manuscript of "The Professor," where it was produced after "Hazel Kirke,"
and whose road tours had been booked by Charles Frohman in his early days as route-maker, now
came into his own. Curiously enough, his career was to be linked closely with that of the little
man he first knew in his early New York days.

Frohman, who had booked and produced Gillette's play "Held By the Enemy," now regarded Gillette
as star material of the first rank. Combined with admiration for Gillette as artist was a strong
personal friendship. Gillette now wrote a play, a capital farce called "Too Much Johnson,"
which Frohman produced with the author as star. In connection with this opening was a typical
Frohman incident.

The play was first put on at Waltham, Massachusetts. The house was small and the notices bad.
Frohman joined the company next day at Springfield. Gillette was much depressed, and he met
Frohman in this mood.

"This is terrible, isn't it? I'm afraid the play is a failure."

"Nonsense!" said Frohman. "I have booked it for New York and for a long tour afterward."

"Why?" asked Gillette in astonishment.

"I saw your performance," was the reply.

Frohman's confidence was vindicated, for when the play was put on at the Standard Theater in
November, 1894, it went splendidly and put another rivet in Gillette's reputation.

Frohman now had two big stars, John Drew and William Gillette. A half-dozen others were in
the making, chief among them the wistful-eyed little Maude Adams, who was now approaching the
point in her career where she was to establish a new tradition for the American stage and give
Charles Frohman a unique distinction.

VIII

MAUDE ADAMS AS STAR

When Charles Frohman put Maude Adams opposite John Drew in "The Masked Ball" he laid the foundation
of what is, in many respects, his most remarkable achievement. The demure little girl, who
had made her way from child actress through the perils of vivid melodrama to a Broadway success,
now set foot on the real highway to a stardom that is unique in the annals of the theater.

Brilliant as was his experience with the various men and women whom he raised from obscurity
to fame and fortune, the case of Maude Adams stands out with peculiar distinctness. It is the
one instance where Charles Frohman literally manufactured a star's future.

Yet no star ever served so rigorous or so distinguished an apprenticeship. Her five years as
leading woman with John Drew tried all her resource. After her brilliant performance as Zuzanne
Blondet in "The Masked Ball," she appeared in "The Butterflies," by Henry Guy Carleton. She
had a much better part in "The Bauble Shop," which followed the next year.

John Drew's vehicle in 1895 was "That Imprudent Young Couple," by Henry Guy Carleton. This
play not only advanced Miss Adams materially, but first served to bring forward John Drew's
niece, Ethel Barrymore, a graceful slip of a girl, who developed a great friendship with Miss
Adams. Following her appearance in the Carleton play came "Christopher Jr.," written by Madeline
Lucette Ryley, in which Miss Adams scored the biggest hit of her career up to this time.

It remained for Louis N. Parker's charming play, "Rosemary," which was produced at the Empire
Theater in 1896, to put Miss Adams into the path of the man who, after Charles Frohman, did
more than any other person in the world to give her the prominence that she occupies to-day.

"Rosemary" was an exquisite comedy, and packed with sentiment. Maude Adams played the part
of Dorothy Cruikshank, a character of quaint and appealing sweetness. It touched the hidden
springs of whimsical humor and thrilling tenderness, qualities which soon proved to be among
her chief assets.

Just about that time a little Scot, James M. Barrie by name, already a distinguished literary
figure who had blossomed forth as a playwright with "Walker London" and "The Professor's Love
Story," came to America for the first time. For three people destined from this time on to
be inseparably entwined in career and fortune, it was a memorable trip. For Barrie it meant
the meeting with Charles Frohman, who was to be his greatest American friend and producer;
for Miss Adams it was to open the way to her real career, and for Frohman himself it was to
witness the beginning of an intimacy that was perhaps the closest of his life.

Barrie's book, "The Little Minister," had been a tremendous success, and, not having acquired
the formality of a copyright in America, the play pirates were busy with it. Frohman, after
having seen the performance of "The Professor's Love Story," had cabled Barrie, asking him
to make a play out of the charming Scotch romance. Barrie at first declined. Frohman, as usual,
was insistent. Then followed the Scotchman's trip to America.

Under Frohman's influence he had begun to consider a dramatization of "The Little Minister,"
but the real stimulus was lacking because, as he expressed it to Frohman, he did not see any
one who could play the part of Babbie.

Now came one of those many unexpected moments that shape lives. On a certain day Barrie dropped
into the Empire Theater to see Frohman, who was out.

"Why don't you stop in down-stairs and see 'Rosemary'?" said Frohman's secretary.

"All right," said Barrie.

So he went down into the Empire and took a seat in the last row. An hour afterward he came
rushing back to Frohman's office, found his friend in, and said to him, as excitedly as his
Scotch nature would permit:

"Frohman, I have found the woman to play Babbie in 'The Little Minister'! I am going to try
to dramatize it myself."

"Who is it?" asked Frohman, with a twinkle in his eye, for he knew without asking.

"It is that little Miss Adams who plays Dorothy."

"Fine!" said Frohman. "I hope you will go ahead now and do the play."

The moment toward which Frohman had looked for years was now at hand. He might have launched
Miss Adams at any time during the preceding four or five seasons. But he desired her to have
a better equipment, and he wanted the American theater-going public to know the woman in whose
talents he felt such an extraordinary confidence. He announced with a suddenness that was startling,
but which in reality conveyed no surprise to the few people who had watched Miss Adams's career
up to this time, that he was going to launch her as star.

Some of his friends, however, objected.

"Why split and separate a good acting combination?" was their comment, meaning the combination
of John Drew and Miss Adams. To this objection Frohman made reply:

"I'll show you the wisdom of it. I'll put them both on Broadway at the same time."

He therefore launched Miss Adams in "The Little Minister" at the Empire and booked John Drew
at Wallack's in "A Marriage of Convenience." His decision was amply vindicated, for both scored
successes.

* * *

Charles Frohman now proceeded to present Miss Adams with his usual lavishness. First of all
he surrounded her with a superb company. It was headed by Robert Edeson, who played the title
rôle, and included Guy Standing, George Fawcett, William H. Thompson, R. Peyton Carter, and
Wilfred Buckland.

With "The Little Minister" Charles Frohman gave interesting evidence of a masterful manipulation
to make circumstances meet his own desires. He realized that the masculine title of the play
might possibly detract from Miss Adams's prestige, so he immediately began to adapt several
important scenes which might have been dominated by Gavin Dishart, the little minister, into
strong scenes for his new luminary. These changes were made, of course, with Barrie's consent,
and added much to the strength of the rôle of Lady Babbie.

To the mastery of the part of Lady Babbie Maude Adams now consecrated herself with a fidelity
of purpose which was very characteristic of her. Then, as always, she asked herself the question:

"What will this character mean to the people who see it?"

In other words, here, as throughout all her career, she put herself in the position of her
audience. She devoted many weeks to a study of Scotch dialect. She fairly lived in a Scotch
atmosphere. One of her friends of that time accused her of subsisting on a diet of Scotch broth.

As was his custom, Frohman gave the piece an out-of-town try-out. It opened on September 13,
1897, a date memorable in the Charles Frohman narrative, in the La Fayette Square Opera House
in Washington. It was an intolerably hot night, and, added to the discomfort of the heat, there
was considerable uncertainty about the success of the venture itself. This was not due to a
lack of confidence in Miss Adams, but to the feeling that the play was excessively Scotch.
A brilliant audience, including many people prominent in public life, witnessed the début and
seemed most friendly.

Miss Adams regarded the first night as a failure. Financially the play limped along for a week,
for the gross receipts were only $3,500. Yet when the play opened in New York two weeks later
it was a spectacular success from the start.

Here is another curious example of the importance of the New York verdict. "Hazel Kirke," which
became one of the historic successes of the American stage, tottered along haltingly for weeks
in Philadelphia, Washington, and Baltimore. In the Quaker City, "Barbara Fritchie," with Julia
Marlowe in the title rôle, came dangerously near closing because of discouraging business.
Yet she came to New York, and with the exception of "When Knighthood was in Flower," registered
the greatest popular triumph she has ever known. This was now the case with "The Little Minister."

Miss Adams was irresistible as Lady Babbie. As the quaint, slyly humorous, make-believe gipsy,
she found full play for all her talents, and she captured her audience almost with her first
speech.

Charles Frohman sat nervously in the wings during the performance. When the curtain went down
his new star said to him:

"How did it go?"

"Splendidly," was his laconic comment.

"The Little Minister" ran at the Empire for three hundred consecutive performances, two hundred
and eighty-nine of which were to "standing room only." The total gross receipts for the engagement
were $370,000--a record for that time.

On the last night of the run Miss Adams received the following cablegram from Barrie:

     Thank you, thank you all for your brilliant achievement. "What a
     glory to our kirk."

     BARRIE.

Maude Adams was now launched as a profitable and successful star. Like many other conscientious
and idealistic interpreters of the drama, she had a great reverence for Shakespeare, and she
burned with a desire to play in one of the great bard's plays. Charles Frohman knew this. Then,
as always, one of his supreme ambitions in life was to gratify her every wish, so he announced
that he would present her in a special all-star production of "Romeo and Juliet."

Charles Frohman himself was always frank enough to say that he had no great desire to produce
Shakespeare. He lived in the dramatic activities of his day. It was shortly before this time
that his brother Daniel, entering his office one day, found him reading.

"I am reading a new book," he said; "that is, new to me."

"What is that?" was the query?

"'Romeo and Juliet,'" he replied.

When Maude Adams dropped the rôle of Babbie to assume that of Juliet some people thought the
transfer a daring one, to say the least. Even Miss Adams was a little nervous. Not so Frohman.
To him Shakespeare was simply a playwright like Clyde Fitch or Augustus Thomas, with the additional
advantage that he was dead, and therefore, as there were no royalties to pay, he could put
the money into the production.

When Frohman went to rehearsal one day he noticed that the company seemed a trifle nervous.

"What's up?" he asked, abruptly.

Some one told him that the players were fearful lest all the details of the costume and play
should not be carried out in strict accordance with history.

"Nonsense!" exclaimed Frohman. "Who's Shakespeare? He was just a man. He won't hurt you. I
don't see any Shakespeare. Just imagine you're looking at a soldier, home from the Cuban war,
making love to a giggling school-girl on a balcony. That's all I see, and that's the way I
want it played. Dismiss all idea of costume. Be modern."

The production of "Romeo and Juliet" was supervised by William Seymour. It was rehearsed in
two sections. One half of the cast was in New York, with Faversham and Hackett; the other was
on tour with Miss Adams in "The Little Minister." Seymour divided his time between the two
wings, with the omnipresent spirit of Frohman over it all.

Miss Adams had made an exhaustive study of the part. After his first conference with her, Seymour
wrote to Frohman as follows:

     I thought I knew my Shakespeare, but Miss Adams has opened up a
     new and most wonderful field. An hour with her has given me more
     inspiration and ideas than twenty years of personal experience with
     it.

As usual, Frohman surrounded Miss Adams with a magnificent cast. William Faversham played Romeo;
James K. Hackett was Mercutio; W. H. Thompson was Friar Lawrence; Orrin Johnson played Paris;
R. Peyton Carter was Peter. Others in the company were Campbell Gollan and Eugene Jepson.

"Romeo and Juliet" was produced at the Empire Theater May 8, 1899, and was a distinguished
artistic success. Miss Adams's Juliet was appealing, romantic, lovely. It touched the chords
of all her gentle womanliness and gave the character, so far as the American stage was concerned,
a new tradition of youthful charm.

A unique feature of the first night's performance of "Romeo and Juliet" was the presence of
Mary Anderson. This distinguished actress, who had just arrived from London for a brief visit,
expressed a desire to see the new Juliet, and to feel once more the thrill of a Broadway first
night. Miss Anderson herself had, of course, achieved great distinction as Juliet. She was
regarded, in her day, as the physical and romantic ideal of the rôle.

When her desire to see the play was communicated to Charles, it was found that every box had
been sold except the one reserved for his sisters. He therefore purchased this from them with
a check for $200.

At the conclusion of the performance Miss Anderson was introduced to Miss Adams, and congratulated
her on her success.

* * *

