Eighteenth Century

                          Essays on Shakespeare

                                Edited by

                          D. Nichol Smith, M.A.

                                 Glasgow

                         James MacLehose and Sons

                       Publishers to the University

                                   1903

CONTENTS

Preface.
Introduction. Shakespearian Criticism in the Eighteenth Century.
Nicholas Rowe: Some Account of the Life &c. of Mr. William Shakespear.
1709.
John Dennis: On the Genius and Writings of Shakespeare. 1711.
Alexander Pope: Preface to Edition of Shakespeare. 1725.
Lewis Theobald: Preface to Edition of Shakespeare. 1733.
Sir Thomas Hanmer: Preface to Edition of Shakespeare. 1744.
William Warburton: Preface to Edition of Shakespeare. 1747.
Samuel Johnson: Preface to Edition of Shakespeare. 1765.
Richard Farmer: An Essay on the Learning of Shakespeare: Addressed to
Joseph Cradock, Esq. 1767.
1777.
Notes.
   Nicholas Rowe.
   John Dennis.
   Alexander Pope.
   Lewis Theobald.
   Sir Thomas Hanmer.
   William Warburton.
   Samuel Johnson.
   Richard Farmer.
   Maurice Morgann.
Index.
Footnotes

PREFACE.

The purpose of this book is to give an account of Shakespeare’s reputation during the eighteenth
century, and to suggest that there are grounds for reconsidering the common opinion that the
century did not give him his due. The nine Essays or Prefaces here reprinted may claim to represent
the chief phases of Shakespearian study from the days of Dryden to those of Coleridge. It is
one of the evils following in the train of the romantic revival that the judgments of the older
school have been discredited or forgotten. The present volume shows that the eighteenth century
knew many things which the nineteenth has rediscovered for itself.

It is at least eighty years since most of these essays were reprinted. Rowe’s Account of Shakespeare
is given in its original and complete form for the first time, it is believed, since 1714;
what was printed in the early Variorum editions, and previously in almost every edition since
1725, was Pope’s version of Rowe’s Account. Dennis’s Essay has not appeared since the author
republished it in 1721. In all cases the texts have been collated with the originals; and the
more important changes in the editions published in the lifetime of the author are indicated
in the Introduction or Notes.

The Introduction has been planned to show the main lines in the development of Shakespeare’s
reputation, and to prove that the new criticism, which is said to begin with Coleridge, takes
its rise as early as the third quarter of the eighteenth century. On the question of Theobald’s
qualifications as an editor, it would appear that we must subscribe to the deliberate verdict
of Johnson. We require strong evidence before we may disregard contemporary opinion, and in
Theobald’s case there is abundant evidence to confirm Johnson’s view. Johnson’s own edition,
on the other hand, has not received justice during the last century.

It is a pleasure to the Editor to record his obligations to Professor Raleigh, Mr. Gregory
Smith, and Mr. J. H. Lobban.

EDINBURGH, October, 1903.

INTRODUCTION. SHAKESPEARIAN CRITICISM IN THE EIGHTEENTH CENTURY.

The early nineteenth century was too readily convinced by Coleridge and Hazlitt that they were
the first to recognise and to explain the greatness of Shakespeare. If amends have recently
been made to the literary ideals of Pope and Johnson, the reaction has not yet extended to
Shakespearian criticism. Are we not still inclined to hold the verdicts of Hume and Chesterfield
as representative of eighteenth-century opinion, and to find proof of a lack of appreciation
in the editorial travesties of the playhouse? To this century, as much as to the nineteenth,
Shakespeare was the glory of English letters. So Pope and Johnson had stated in unequivocal
language, which should not have been forgotten. “He is not so much an imitator as an instrument
of Nature,” said Pope, “and ’tis not so just to say that he speaks from her as that she speaks
through him”; and Johnson declared that “the stream of time, which is continually washing the
dissoluble fabrics of other poets, passes without injury by the adamant of Shakespeare.” But
Pope and Johnson had ventured to point out, in the honesty of their criticism, that Shakespeare
was not free from faults; and it was this which the nineteenth century chose to remark. Johnson’s
Preface in particular was remembered only to be despised. It is not rash to say that at the
present time the majority of those who chance to speak of it pronounce it a discreditable performance.

This false attitude to the eighteenth century had its nemesis in the belief that we were awakened
by foreigners to the greatness of Shakespeare. Even one so eminently sane as Hazlitt lent support
to this opinion. “We will confess,” says the Preface to the Characters of Shakespeare’s Plays,
“that some little jealousy of the character of the national understanding was not without its
share in producing the following undertaking, for we were piqued that it should be reserved
for a foreign critic to give reasons for the faith which we English have in Shakespeare”; and
the whole Preface resolves itself, however reluctantly, into praise of Schlegel and censure
of Johnson. When a thorough Englishman writes thus, it is not surprising that Germany should
have claimed to be the first to give Shakespeare his true place. The heresy has been exposed;
but even the slightest investigation of eighteenth-century opinion, or the mere recollection
of what Dryden had said, should have prevented its rise. Though Hazlitt took upon himself the
defence of the national intelligence, he incorporated in his Preface a long passage from Schlegel,
because, in his opinion, no English critic had shown like enthusiasm or philosophical acuteness.
We cannot regret the delusion if we owe to it the Characters of Shakespeare’s Plays, but his
patriotic task would have been easier, and might even have appeared unnecessary, had he known
that many of Schlegel’s acute and enthusiastic observations had been anticipated at home.

Even those who are willing to give the eighteenth century its due have not recognised how it
appreciated Shakespeare. At no time in this century was he not popular. The author of Esmond
tells us that Shakespeare was quite out of fashion until Steele brought him back into the mode.(1)
Theatrical records would alone be sufficient to show that the ascription of this honour to
Steele is an injustice to his contemporaries. In the year that the Tatler was begun, Rowe brought
out his edition of the “best of our poets”; and a reissue was called for five years later.
It is said by Johnson(2) that Pope’s edition drew the public attention to Shakespeare’s works,
which, though often mentioned, had been little read. Henceforward there was certainly an increase
in the number of critical investigations, but if Shakespeare had been little read, how are
we to explain the coffee-house discussions of which we seem to catch echoes in the periodical
literature? The allusions in the Spectator, or the essays in the Censor, must have been addressed
to a public which knew him. Dennis, who “read him over and over and still remained unsatiated,”
tells how he was accused, by blind admirers of the poet, of lack of veneration, because he
had ventured to criticise, and how he had appealed from a private discussion to the judgment
of the public. “Above all I am pleased,” says the Guardian, “in observing that the Tragedies
of Shakespeare, which in my youthful days have so frequently filled my eyes with tears, hold
their rank still, and are the great support of our theatre.”(3) Theobald could say that “this
author is grown so universal a book that there are very few studies or collections of books,
though small, amongst which it does not hold a place”; and he could add that “there is scarce
a poet that our English tongue boasts of who is more the subject of the Ladies’ reading.”(4)
It would be difficult to explain away these statements. The critical interest in Shakespeare
occasioned by Pope’s edition may have increased the knowledge of him, but he had been regularly
cited, long before Pope’s day, as England’s representative genius. To argue that he had ever
been out of favour we must rely on later statements, and they are presumably less trustworthy
than those which are contemporary. Lyttelton remarked that a veneration for Shakespeare seems
to be a part of the national religion, and the only part in which even men of sense are fanatics;(5)
and Gibbon spoke of the “idolatry for the gigantic genius of Shakespeare, which is inculcated
from our infancy as the first duty of an Englishman.”(6) The present volume will show how the
eighteenth century could almost lose itself in panegyric of Shakespeare. The evidence is so
overwhelming that it is hard to understand how the century’s respect for Shakespeare was ever
doubted. When Tom Jones took Partridge to the gallery of Drury Lane, the play was Hamlet. The
fashionable topics on which Mr. Thornhill’s friends from town would talk, to the embarrassment
of the Primroses and the Flamboroughs, were “pictures, taste, Shakespeare, and the musical
glasses.” The greatest poet of the century played a leading part in erecting the statue in
the Poets’ Corner. And it was an eighteenth-century actor who instituted the Stratford celebrations.

During the entire century Shakespeare dominated the stage. He was more to the actor then, and
more familiar to the theatre-goer, than he is now. It is true that from Betterton’s days to
Garrick’s, and later, his plays were commonly acted from mangled versions. But these versions
were of two distinct types. The one respected the rules of the classical drama, the other indulged
the license of pantomime. The one was the labour of the pedant theorist, the other was rather
the improvisation of the theatre manager. And if the former were truly representative of the
taste of the century, as has sometimes been implied, it has to be explained how they were not
so popular as the latter. “Our taste has gone back a whole century,” says the strolling player
in the Vicar of Wakefield,(7) “Fletcher, Ben Jonson, and all the plays of Shakespeare are the
only things that go down.” The whole passage is a satire on Garrick(8) and a gibe at Drury
Lane: “The public go only to be amused, and find themselves happy when they can enjoy a pantomime
under the sanction of Jonson’s or Shakespeare’s name.” But, whatever was done with Shakespeare’s
plays, they were the very life of the theatre. When we remember also the number of editions
which were published, and the controversies to which they gave rise, as well as the fact that
the two literary dictators were among his editors, we are prompted to ask, What century has
felt the influence of Shakespeare more than the eighteenth?

                  -------------------------------------

The century’s interest in Shakespeare shows itself in four main phases. The first deals with
his neglect of the so-called rules of the drama; the second determines what was the extent
of his learning; the third considers the treatment of his text; and the fourth, more purely
aesthetic, shows his value as a delineator of character. The following remarks take these questions
in order; and a concluding section gives an account of the individual essays here reprinted.
Though the phases are closely connected and overlap to some extent, the order in which they
are here treated accords in the main with their chronological sequence.

I.

Dryden is the father of Shakespearian criticism. Though he disguised his veneration at times,
he expressed his true faith when he wrote, deliberately, the fervent estimate in the Essay
of Dramatic Poesy. Johnson saw that Pope had expanded it, and his own experience made him say
that the editors and admirers of Shakespeare, in all their emulation of reverence, had not
done much more than diffuse and paraphrase this “epitome of excellence.” But concurrently on
to Johnson’s time we can trace the influence of Thomas Rymer, who, in his Short View of Tragedy,
had championed the classical drama, and had gone as far in abuse as his greater contemporary
had gone in praise. The authority which each exerted is well illustrated by Rowe’s Account
of Shakespeare. Rowe is of the party of Dryden, but he cannot refrain from replying to Rymer,
though he has resolved to enter into no critical controversy. He says he will not inquire into
the justness of Rymer’s remarks, and yet he replies to him in two passages. That these were
silently omitted by Pope when he included the Account of Shakespeare in his own edition in
1725 does not mean that Rymer was already being forgotten. We know from other sources that
Pope rated his abilities very highly. But the condensed form in which the Account was regularly
reprinted does not convey so plainly as the original the influence of the rival schools at
the beginning of the eighteenth century. In addition to the passages on Rymer, Pope omitted
several valuable allusions to Dryden. The influence of Dryden, however, is plain enough. He
seems to have been ever present to Rowe, suggesting ideas to be accepted or refuted. Rowe must
have been indebted to the conversation of Dryden as well as to the researches of Betterton.

Rowe’s own dramatic work is an interesting comment on the critical portions of his Account
of Shakespeare. When he professes to have taken Shakespeare as his model,(9) which shows that
his editorial work had taught him the trick of an occasional line contrary to the normal rules
of blank verse. Notwithstanding a brave prologue, he was not able to shake himself free from
the rules, which tightened their grip on English tragedy till they choked it. His regard for
Shakespeare did not give him courage for the addition of a comic element or an underplot. He
must obey the “hampering critics,” though his avowed model had ignored them. Accordingly, in
his more deliberate prose criticism we find, amid his veneration of Shakespeare, his regard
for the rules of the classical drama. The faults of Shakespeare, we read, were not so much
his own as those of his time, for “tragi-comedy was the common mistake of that age,” and there
was as yet no definite knowledge of how a play should be constructed.

The burden of Rowe’s criticism is that “strength and nature made amends for art.” The line
might serve as the text of many of the early appreciations of Shakespeare. Though the critics
all resented Rymer’s treatment of the poet, some of them stood by his doctrines. They might
appease this resentment by protesting against his manners or refuting his plea for a dramatic
chorus; but on the whole they recognised the claims of the classical models. The more the dramatic
fervour failed, the more the professed critics counselled observance of the rules. In 1702
Farquhar had pleaded for the freedom of the English stage in his Discourse upon Comedy, but
his arguments were unavailing. The duller men found it easier to support the rigid doctrines,
which had been fully expounded by the French critics. The seventh or supplementary volume of
Rowe’s edition of Shakespeare was introduced by Charles Gildon’s Essay on the Art, Rise, and
Progress of the Stage in Greece, Rome, and  England, which, as the title shows, was a laboured
exposition of the classical doctrines. Gildon had begun as an enemy of Rymer. In 1694 he had
published Some Reflections on Mr. Rymer’s Short View of Tragedy and an Attempt at a Vindication
of Shakespeare. Therein he had spoken of “noble irregularity,” and censured the “graver pedants”
of the age. By 1710 he is a grave pedant himself. In 1694 he had said that Rymer had scarce
produced one criticism that was not borrowed from the French writers; in 1710 the remark is
now applicable to its author. Gildon’s further descent as a critic is evident eight years later
in his Complete Art of Poetry. He is now a slave to the French doctrine of the rules. He confesses
himself the less ready to pardon the “monstrous absurdities” of Shakespeare, as one or two
plays, such as the Tempest, are “very near a regularity.” Yet he acknowledges that Shakespeare
abounds in beauties, and he makes some reparation by including a long list of his finer passages.
Gildon was a man whose ideas took their colour from his surroundings. In the days of his acquaintanceship
with Dryden he appreciated Shakespeare more heartily than when he was left to the friendship
of Dennis or the favours of the Duke of Buckinghamshire. His Art of Poetry is a dishonest compilation,
which owes what value it has to the sprinkling of contemporary allusions. It even incorporates,
without any acknowledgment, long passages from Sidney’s Apologie. We should be tempted to believe
that Gildon merely put his name to a hack-work collection, were it not that there is a gradual
deterioration in his criticism.

John Dennis also replied to Rymer’s Short View, and was classed afterwards as one of Rymer’s
disciples. In his Impartial Critick (1693) he endeavoured to show that the methods of the ancient
Greek tragedy were not all suitable to the modern English theatre. To introduce a chorus, as
Rymer had recommended, or to expel love from the stage, would, he argued, only ruin the English
drama. But his belief in the classical rules made him turn the Merry Wives into the Comical
Gallant. As he found in the original three actions, each independent of the other, he had set
himself to make the whole “depend on one common centre.” In the Dedication to the letters On
the Genius and Writings of Shakespeare we read that Aristotle, “who may be call’d the Legislator
of Parnassus, wrote the laws of tragedy so exactly and so truly in reason and nature that succeeding
criticks have writ justly and reasonably upon that art no farther than they have adhered to
their great master’s notions.” But at the very beginning of the letters themselves he says
that “Shakespeare was one of the greatest geniuses that the world e’er saw.” Notwithstanding
his pronounced classical taste, his sense of the greatness of Shakespeare is as strong as Rowe’s,
and much stronger than Gildon’s. His writings prove him a man of competent scholarship, who
had thought out his literary doctrines for himself, and could admire beauty in other than classical
garb. The result is that at many points his opinions are at marked variance with those of Rymer,
for whom, however, he had much respect. Rymer, for instance, had said that Shakespeare’s genius
lay in comedy, but the main contention of Dennis’s letters is that he had an unequalled gift
for tragedy. As a critic Dennis is greatly superior to Rymer and his disciples. The ancients
guided his taste without blinding him to modern excellence.

Even Lewis Theobald, whom some would consider Shakespeare’s greatest friend in this century,
believed in the rules. He complied with the taste of the town when he wrote pantomimes, but
he was a sterner man when he posed as a critic. He would then speak of the “general absurdities
of Shakespeare,” and the “errors” in the structure of his plays. He passed this criticism both
in his edition of Shakespeare and in the early articles in the Censor on King Lear, which are
also of considerable historical interest as being the first essays devoted exclusively to an
examination of a single Shakespearian play. His complacent belief in the rules prompted him
to correct Richard II. “The many scattered beauties which I have long admired,” he says naïvely
in the Preface, “induced me to think they would have stronger charms if they were interwoven
in a regular Fable.” No less confident is a note on Love’s Labours Lost: “Besides the exact
regularity of the rules of art, which the author has happened to preserve in some few of his
pieces, this is demonstration, I think, that though he has more frequently transgressed the
unity of Time by cramming years into the compass of a play, yet he knew the absurdity of so
doing, and was not unacquainted with the rule to the contrary.”(10) Theobald was a critic of
the same type as Gildon. Each had profound respect for what he took to be the accredited doctrines.
If on certain points Theobald’s ideas were liable to change, the explanation is that he was
amenable to the opinions of others. We do not find in Theobald’s criticism the courage of originality.

There is little about the rules in Pope’s Preface. That Pope respected them cannot be doubted,
else he would not have spoken so well of Rymer, and in the critical notes added to his Homer
we should not hear so much of Le Bossu’s treatise on the Epic.(11) But Pope was a discreet
man, who knew when to be silent. He regarded it as a misfortune that Shakespeare was not so
circumstanced as to be able to write on the model of the ancients, but, unlike the pedant theorists,
he refused to judge Shakespeare by the rules of a foreign drama. Much the same is to be said
of Addison. His belief in the rules appears in his Cato. His over-rated criticism of Paradise
Lost is little more than a laboured application of the system of Le Bossu. But in the Spectator
he too urges that Shakespeare is not to be judged according to the rules. “Our critics do not
seem sensible,” he writes, “that there is more beauty in the works of a great genius who is
ignorant of the rules of art than in those of a little genius who knows and observes them.
Our inimitable Shakespeare is a stumbling-block to the whole tribe of these rigid critics.
Who would not rather read one of his plays where there is not a single rule of the stage observed,
than any production of a modern critic where there is not one of them violated?”(12) The rigid
critics continued to find fault with the structure of Shakespeare’s plays. In the articles
in the Adventurer on the Tempest and King Lear, Joseph Warton repeats the standard objection
to tragi-comedy and underplots. In the Biographia Britannica we still find it stated that Shakespeare
set himself to please the populace, and that the people “had no notion of the rules of writing,
or the model of the Ancients.” But one whose tastes were classical, both by nature and by training,
had been thinking out the matter for himself. It was only after long reflection, and with much
hesitation, that Johnson had disavowed what had almost come to be considered the very substance
of the classical faith. In his Irene he had bowed to the rules; he had, however, begun to suspect
them by the time he wrote the Rambler, and in the Preface to his edition of Shakespeare suspicion
has become conviction. His sturdy common sense and independence of judgment led him to anticipate
much of what has been supposed to be the discovery of the romantic school. His Preface has
received scant justice. There is no more convincing criticism of the neo-classical doctrines.(13)

Henceforward we hear less about the rules. Johnson had performed a great service for that class
of critics whose deference to learned opinion kept them from saying fully what they felt. The
lesser men had not been at their ease when they referred to Shakespeare. We see their difficulty
in the Latin lectures of Joseph Trapp, the first Professor of Poetry at Oxford, as well as
in the Grub Street Essay upon English Tragedy (1747) by William Guthrie. They admire his genius,
but they persist in regretting that his plays are not properly constructed. Little importance
attaches to Mrs. Montagu’s Essay on the Writings and Genius of Shakespeare (1769).(14) It was
only a well-meaning but shallow reply to Voltaire,(15) and a reply was unnecessary. Johnson
had already vindicated the national pride in Shakespeare. That his views soon became the commonplaces
of those critics who strike the average of current opinion, is shown by such a work as William
Cooke’s Elements of Dramatic Criticism (1775). But traces of the school of Rymer are still
to be found, and nowhere more strongly than in the anonymous Cursory Remarks on Tragedy (1774).
In this little volume of essays the dramatic rules are defended against the criticism of Johnson
by a lame repetition of the arguments which Johnson had overthrown. Even Pope is said to have
let his partiality get the better of his usual justice and candour when he claimed that Shakespeare
was not to be judged by what were called the rules of Aristotle. There are laws, this belated
critic urges, which bind each individual as a citizen of the world; and once again we read
that the rules of the classical drama are in accordance with human reason. This book is the
last direct descendant of Rymer’s Short View. The ancestral trait appears in the question whether
Shakespeare was in general even a good tragic writer. But it is a degenerate descendant. If
it has learned good manners, it is unoriginal and dull; and it is so negligible that it has
apparently not been thought worth while to settle the question of its authorship.(16)

II.

The discussion on Shakespeare’s attitude to the dramatic rules was closely connected with the
long controversy on the extent of his learning. The question naturally suggested itself how
far his dramatic method was due to his ignorance of the classics. Did he know the rules and
ignore them, or did he write with no knowledge of the Greek and Roman models? Whichever view
the critics adopted, one and all felt they were arguing for the honour of Shakespeare. If some
would prove for his greater glory that parallel passages were due to direct borrowing, others
held it was more to his credit to have known nothing of the classics and to have equalled or
surpassed them by the mere force of unassisted genius.

The controversy proper begins with Rowe’s Account of Shakespeare. On this subject, as on others,
Rowe expresses the tradition of the seventeenth century. His view is the same as Dryden’s,
and Dryden had accepted Jonson’s statement that Shakespeare had “small Latin and less Greek.”
Rowe believes that his acquaintance with Latin authors was such as he might have gained at
school: he could remember tags of Horace or Mantuan, but was unable to read Plautus in the
original. The plea that comparative ignorance of the classics may not have been a disadvantage,
as it perhaps prevented the sacrifice of fancy to correctness, prompted a reply by Gildon in
his Essay on the Stage, where the argument is based partly on the belief that Shakespeare had
read Ovid and Plautus and had thereby neither spoiled his fancy nor confined his genius. The
question was probably at this time a common topic of discussion. Dennis’s abler remarks were
suggested, as he tells us, by conversation in which he found himself opposed to the prevalent
opinion. He is more pronounced in his views than Rowe had been. His main argument is that as
Shakespeare is deficient in the “poetical art” he could not but have been ignorant of the classics,
for, had he known them, he could not have failed to profit by them. Dennis is stirred even
to treat the question as one affecting the national honour. “He who allows,” he says, “that
Shakespeare had learning and a familiar acquaintance with the Ancients, ought to be looked
upon as a detractor from his extraordinary merit and from the glory of Great Britain.”

The prominence of the controversy forced Pope to refer to it in his Preface, but he had apparently
little interest in it. Every statement he makes is carefully guarded: there are translations
from Ovid, he says, among the poems which pass for Shakespeare’s; he will not pretend to say
in what language Shakespeare read the Greek authors; Shakespeare appears to have been conversant
in Plautus. He is glad of the opportunity to reply to Dennis’s criticism of Coriolanus and
Julius Caesar, but though he praises the truthful representation of the Roman spirit and manners,
he discreetly refuses to say how Shakespeare came to know of them. As he had not thought out
the matter for himself, he feared to tread where the lesser men rushed in. But though he records
the evidence brought forward by those who believed in Shakespeare’s knowledge of the Ancients,
he does not fail to convey the impression that he belongs to the other party. And, indeed,
in another passage of the Preface he says with definiteness, inconsistent with his other statements,
that Shakespeare was “without assistance or advice from the learned, as without the advantage
of education or acquaintance among them, without that knowledge of the best models, the Ancients,
to inspire him with an emulation of them.”

During the fifty years between Pope’s Preface and Johnson’s, the controversy continued intermittently
without either party gaining ground. In the Preface to the supplementary volume to Pope’s edition—which
is a reprint of Gildon’s supplementary volume to Rowe’s—Sewell declared he found evident marks
through all Shakespeare’s writings of knowledge of the Latin tongue. Theobald, who was bound
to go astray when he ventured beyond the collation of texts, was ready to believe that similarity
of idea in Shakespeare and the classics was due to direct borrowing. He had, however, the friendly
advice of Warburton to make him beware of the secret satisfaction of pointing out a classical
original. In its earlier form his very unequal Preface had contained the acute observation
that the texture of Shakespeare’s phrases indicated better than his vocabulary the extent of
his knowledge of Latin. The style was submitted as “the truest criterion to determine this
long agitated question,” and the conclusion was implied that Shakespeare could not have been
familiar with the classics. But this interesting passage was omitted in the second edition,
perhaps because it was inconsistent with a less decided utterance elsewhere in the Preface,
but more probably because it had been supplied by Warburton. In his earlier days, before he
had met Warburton, he had been emphatic. In the Preface to his version of Richard II. he had
tried to do Shakespeare “some justice upon the points of his learning and acquaintance with
the Ancients.” He had said that Timon of Athens and Troilus and Cressida left it without dispute
or exception that Shakespeare was no inconsiderable master of the Greek story; he dared be
positive that the latter play was founded directly upon Homer; he held that Shakespeare must
have known Aeschylus, Lucian, and Plutarch in the Greek; and he claimed that he could, “with
the greatest ease imaginable,” produce above five hundred passages from the three Roman plays
to prove Shakespeare’s intimacy with the Latin classics. When he came under the influence of
Warburton he lost his assurance. He was then “very cautious of declaring too positively” on
either side of the question; but he was loath to give up his belief that Shakespeare knew the
classics at first hand. Warburton himself did not figure creditably in the controversy. He
might ridicule the discoveries of other critics, but his vanity often allured him to displays
of learning as absurd as theirs. No indecision troubled Upton or Zachary Grey. They saw in
Shakespeare a man of profound reading, one who might well have worn out his eyes in poring
over classic tomes. They clutched at anything to show his deliberate imitation of the Ancients.
There could be no better instance of the ingenious folly of this type of criticism than the
passage in the Notes on Shakespeare, where Grey argues from Gloucester’s words in Richard III.,
“Go you before and I will follow you,” that Shakespeare knew, and was indebted to, Terence’s
Andria. About the same time Peter Whalley, the editor of Ben Jonson, brought out his Enquiry
into the Learning of Shakespeare (1748), the first formal treatise devoted directly to the
subject of controversy. Therein it is claimed that Shakespeare knew Latin well enough to have
acquired in it a taste and elegance of judgment, and was more indebted to the Ancients than
was commonly imagined. On the whole, however, Whalley’s attitude was more reasonable than that
of Upton or Grey, for he admitted that his list of parallel passages might not settle the point
at issue.

After such a display of misapplied learning it is refreshing to meet with the common sense
of one who was a greater scholar than any of these pedants. Johnson has less difficulty in
giving his opinion on the extent of Shakespeare’s learning than in discovering the reasons
of the controversy. The evidence of Shakespeare’s contemporary, he says, ought to decide the
question unless some testimony of equal force can be opposed, and such testimony he refuses
to find in the collections of the Uptons and Greys. It is especially remarkable that Johnson,
who is not considered to have been strong in research, should be the first to state that Shakespeare
used North’s translation of Plutarch. He is the first also to point out that there was an English
translation of the play on which the Comedy of Errors was founded,(17) and the first to show
that it was not necessary to go back to the Tale of Gamelyn for the story of As you like it.
There is no evidence how he came by this knowledge. The casual and allusive manner in which
he advances his information would seem to show that it was not of his own getting. He may have
been indebted for it to the scholar who two years later put an end to the controversy. The
edition of Shakespeare did not appear till October, 1765, and early in that year Johnson had
spent his “joyous evening” at Cambridge with Richard Farmer.(18)

The Essay on the Learning of Shakespeare is not an independent treatise like Whalley’s Enquiry,
but rather a detailed reply to the arguments of Upton and his fellows. Farmer had once been
idle enough, he tells us himself, to collect parallel passages, but he had been saved by his
remarkable bibliographical knowledge. He found out that the literature of the age of Elizabeth
was a better hunting ground than the classics for Shakespearian commentators. Again and again
he shows that passages which had been urged as convincing proof of knowledge of Latin or Greek
are either borrowed from contemporary translations or illustrated by contemporary usage. In
so far as the Essay aims at showing the futility of the arguments advanced to prove Shakespeare’s
learning, it is convincing. The only criticism that can reasonably be passed on it is that
Farmer is apt to think he has proved his own case when he has merely destroyed the evidence
of his opponents. His conclusion regarding Shakespeare’s knowledge of French and Italian may
be too extreme to be generally accepted now, and indeed it may not be logically deducible from
his examination of the arguments of other critics; but on the whole the book is a remarkably
able study. Though Farmer speaks expressly of acquitting “our great poet of all piratical depredations
on the Ancients,” his purpose has often been misunderstood, or at least misrepresented. He
aimed at giving Shakespeare the greater commendation, but certain critics of the earlier half
of the nineteenth century would have it that he had tried to prove, for his own glory, that
Shakespeare was a very ignorant fellow. William Maginn in particular proclaimed the Essay a
“piece of pedantic impertinence not paralleled in literature.” The early Variorum editions
had acknowledged its value by reprinting it in its entirety, besides quoting from it liberally
in the notes to the separate plays, and Maginn determined to do his best to rid them in future
of this “superfluous swelling.” So he indulged in a critical Donnybrook; but after hitting
out and about at the Essay for three months he left it much as he found it.(19) He could not
get to close quarters with Farmer’s scholarship. His bluster compares ill with Farmer’s gentler
manner, and in some passages the quiet humour has proved too subtle for his animosity. There
was more impartiality in the judgment of Johnson: “Dr. Farmer, you have done that which was
never done before; that is, you have completely finished a controversy beyond all further doubt.”(20)

III.

After the publication of Farmer’s Essay there was a change in the character of the editions
of Shakespeare. Farmer is the forerunner of Steevens and Malone. He had a just idea of the
importance of his work when he spoke of himself as the pioneer of the commentators. It did
not matter whether his main contention were accepted; he had at least shown the wealth of illustration
which was awaiting the scholar who cared to search in the literature of Shakespeare’s age,
and Steevens and Malone were not slow to follow. They had the advantage of being early in the
field; but it is doubtful if any later editor has contributed as much as either of them did
to the elucidation of Shakespeare’s text. They have been oftener borrowed from than has been
admitted, and many a learned note of later date may be found in germ in their editions. But
with the advance of detailed scholarship the Prefaces deteriorate in literary merit. They concern
themselves more and more with textual and bibliographical points, and hence, if they are of
greater interest to the student, they are of less value as indications of the century’s regard
for Shakespeare. The change is already noticeable in Capell’s Preface, on the literary shortcomings
of which Johnson expressed himself so forcibly. Johnson is the last editor whose Preface is
a piece of general criticism. It is an essay which can stand by itself.

By the time of Johnson and Capell the editor of Shakespeare has come to a clear idea of his
“true duty.” Rowe had no suspicion of the textual problems awaiting his successors. A dramatist
himself, he wished merely to publish Shakespeare’s plays as he would publish his own. Accordingly
he modernised the spelling, divided the scenes, and added lists of dramatis personae; and the
folio gave place to six octavo volumes. He was content to found his text on the fourth Folio,
the last and worst; he had no idea of the superior claims of the first, though he professed
to have compared the several editions. He corrected many errors and occasionally hit upon a
happy emendation; but on the whole his interest in Shakespeare was that of the dramatist. Pope’s
interest was that of the poet. There is some truth in the criticism that he gave Shakespeare
not as he was, but as he ought to be, though Pope might well have retorted that in his opinion
the two conditions were identical. Whatever did not conform to his opinion of Shakespeare’s
style he treated as an interpolation. His collation of the texts, by convincing him of their
corruption, only prompted him to a more liberal exercise of his own judgment. In the supplementary
volume of Pope’s edition, it had been suggested by Sewell that our great writers should be
treated in the same way as the classics were, and the idea was put into practice by Theobald,
who could say that his method of editing was “the first assay of the kind on any modern author
whatsoever.” By his careful collation of the Quartos and Folios, he pointed the way to the
modern editor. But he was followed by Hanmer, who, as his chief interest was to rival Pope,
was content with Pope’s methods. It is easy to underestimate the value of Hanmer’s edition;
his happy conjectures have been prejudiced by his neglect of the older copies and his unfortunate
attempt to regularise the metre; but what alone concerns us here is that he reverts to the
methods which Theobald had discarded. Warburton, confident in his intellectual gifts, was satisfied
with Theobald’s examination of the early copies, and trusted to his own insight “to settle
the genuine text.” The critical ingenuity of editors and commentators, before the authority
of the Folios was established, betrayed them into inevitable error. The amusing variety of
conjectural readings was met by the exquisite satire of Fielding,(21) as well as by the heavy
censure of Grub Street. “It is to be wished,” says a catchpenny publication, “that the original
text of Shakespeare were left unaltered for every English reader to understand. The numerous
fry of commentators will at last explain his original meaning away.”(22) This criticism was
out of date by the time of Johnson and Capell. As it has long been the fashion to decry Johnson’s
edition, it is well to recall two statements in his Preface, which show that he had already
discovered what later editors have found out for themselves:

    “I collated all the folios at the beginning, but afterwards used
    only the first.”(23)

    “It has been my settled principle that the reading of the ancient
    books is probably true.... As I practised conjecture more, I
    learned to trust it less.”

Johnson’s collation may not have been thorough; but no modern editor can say that he proceeded
on a wrong method.

Johnson has included in his Preface an account of the work of earlier editors, and it is the
first attempt of the kind which is impartial. He shows that Rowe has been blamed for not performing
what he did not undertake; he is severe on Pope for the allusion to the “dull duty of an editor,”
as well as for the performance of it, though he also finds much to praise; he does more justice
to Sir Thomas Hammer than has commonly been done since; and he is not silent on the weaknesses
of Warburton. The only thing in this unprejudiced account which is liable to criticism is his
treatment of Theobald. But the censure is as just as the praise which it is now the fashion
to heap on him. Though Theobald was the first to pay due respect to the original editions,
we cannot, in estimating his capacity, ignore the evidence of his correspondence with Warburton.
In the more detailed account of his work given below, it is shown that there was a large measure
of justice in the common verdict of the eighteenth century, but it was only prejudiced critics
like Pope or Warburton who would say that his Shakespearian labours were futile. Johnson is
careful to state that “what little he did was commonly right.”

It would appear that Macaulay’s estimate of Johnson’s own edition has been generally accepted,
even by those who in other matters remark on the historian’s habit of exaggeration. “The Preface,”
we read, “though it contains some good passages, is not in his best manner. The most valuable
notes are those in which he had an opportunity of showing how attentively he had, during many
years, observed human life and human nature. The best specimen is the note on the character
of Polonius. Nothing so good is to be found even in Wilhelm Meister’s admirable examination
of Hamlet. But here praise must end. It would be difficult to name a more slovenly, a more
worthless edition of any great classic. The reader may turn over play after play without finding
one happy conjectural emendation, or one ingenious and satisfactory explanation of a passage
which had baffled preceding commentators.”(24) And we still find it repeated that his edition
was a failure. Johnson distrusted conjecture; but that there is not one happy conjectural emendation
is only less glaringly untrue than the other assertion that there is not one new ingenious
and satisfactory explanation. Even though we make allowance for Macaulay’s mannerism, it is
difficult to believe that he had honestly consulted the edition. We may neglect the earlier
eighteenth-century editions of Shakespeare, but if we neglect Johnson’s we run a serious risk.
We may now abandon his text; we must rely on later scholarship for the explanation of many
allusions; but, wherever a difficulty can be solved by common sense, we shall never find his
notes antiquated. Other editions are distinguished by accuracy, ingenuity, or learning; the
supreme distinction of his is sagacity. He cleared a way through a mass of misleading conjectures.
In disputed passages he has an almost unerring instinct for the explanation which alone can
be right; and when the reading is corrupt beyond emendation, he gives the most helpful statement
of the probable meaning. Not only was Johnson’s edition the best which had yet appeared; it
is still one of the few editions which are indispensable.

IV.

The third quarter of the eighteenth century, and not the first quarter of the nineteenth, is
the true period of transition in Shakespearian criticism. The dramatic rules had been finally
deposed. The corrected plays were falling into disfavour, and though Shakespeare’s dramas were
not yet acted as they were written, more respect was being paid to the originals. The sixty
years’ controversy on the extent of his learning had ended by proving that the best commentary
on him is the literature of his own age. At the same time there is a far-reaching change in
the literary appreciations of Shakespeare, which announces the school of Coleridge and Hazlitt:
his characters now become the main topics of criticism.

In the five essays on the Tempest and King Lear contributed by Joseph Warton to the Adventurer
in 1753-54, we can recognise the coming change in critical methods. He began them by giving
in a sentence a summary of the common verdicts: “As Shakespeare is sometimes blamable for the
conduct of his fables, which have no unity; and sometimes for his diction, which is obscure
and turgid; so his characteristical excellences may possibly be reduced to these three general
heads—his lively creative imagination, his strokes of nature and passion, and his preservation
of the consistency of his characters.” Warton himself believed in the dramatic conventions.
He objected to the Edmund story in King Lear on the ground that it destroyed the unity of the
fable. But he had the wisdom to recognise that irregularities in structure may be excused by
the representation of the persons of the drama.(25) Accordingly, in his examination of the
Tempest and King Lear, he pays most attention to the characters, and relegates to a short closing
paragraph his criticism of the development of the action. Though his method has nominally much
in common with that of Maurice Morgann and the romantic critics, in practice it is very different.
He treats the characters from without: he lacks the intuitive sympathy which is the secret
of later criticism. To him the play is a representation of life, not a transcript from life.
The characters, who are more real to us than actual persons of history, and more intimate than
many an acquaintance, appear to him to be creatures of the imagination who live in a different
world from his own. Warton describes the picture: he criticises the portraits of the characters
rather than the characters themselves.

The gradual change in the critical attitude is illustrated also by Lord Kames, whom Heath had
reason to describe, before the appearance of Johnson’s Preface, as “the truest judge and most
intelligent admirer of Shakespeare.”(26) The scheme of his Elements of Criticism (1762) allowed
him to deal with Shakespeare only incidentally, as in the digression where he distinguishes
between the presentation and the description of passion, but he gives more decisive expression
to Warton’s view that observance of the rules is of subordinate importance to the truthful
exhibition of character. The mechanical part, he observes, in which alone Shakespeare is defective,
is less the work of genius than of experience, and it is knowledge of human nature which gives
him his supremacy. The same views are repeated in the periodical essays. The Mirror regards
it as “preposterous” to endeavour to regularise his plays, and finds the source of his superiority
in his almost supernatural powers of invention, his absolute command over the passions, and
his wonderful knowledge of nature; and the Lounger says that he presents the abstract of life
in all its modes and in every time. The rules are forgotten,—we cease to hear even that they
are useless. But the Elements of Criticism gave Kames no opportunity to show that his attitude
to the characters themselves was other than Warton’s.

No critic had questioned Shakespeare’s truth to nature. The flower of Pope’s Preface is the
section on his knowledge of the world and his power over the passions. Lyttleton showed his
intimacy with Pope’s opinion when in his Dialogues of the Dead he made him say: “No author
had ever so copious, so bold, so creative an imagination, with so perfect a knowledge of the
passions, the humours and sentiments of mankind. He painted all characters, from kings down
to peasants, with equal truth and equal force. If human nature were destroyed, and no monument
were left of it except his works, other beings might know what man was from those writings.”
The same eulogy is repeated in other words by Johnson. And in Gray’s Progress of Poesy Shakespeare
is “Nature’s Darling.” It was his diction which gave most scope to the censure of the better
critics. An age whose literary watchwords were simplicity and precision was bound to remark
on his obscurities and plays on words, and even, as Dryden had done, on his bombast. What Shaftesbury(27)
or Atterbury(28) had said at the beginning of the century is repeated, as we should expect,
by the rhetoricians, such as Blair. But it was shown by Kames that the merit of Shakespeare’s
language lay in the absence of those abstract and general terms which were the blemish of the
century’s own diction. “Shakespeare’s style in that respect,” says Kames, “is excellent: every
article in his descriptions is particular, as in nature.” And herein Kames gave independent
expression to the views of the poet who is said to have lived in the wrong century. “In truth,”
said Gray, “Shakespeare’s language is one of his principal beauties; and he has no less advantage
over your Addisons and Rowes in this than in those other great excellences you mention. Every
word in him is a picture.”(29)

The first book devoted directly to the examination of Shakespeare’s characters was by William
Richardson, Professor of Humanity in the University of Glasgow. His Philosophical Analysis
and Illustration of some of Shakespeare’s remarkable Characters, which dealt with Macbeth,
Hamlet, Jaques, and Imogen, appeared in 1774; ten years later he added a second series on Richard
III., King Lear, and Timon of Athens; and in 1789 he concluded his character studies with his
essay on Falstaff. As the titles show, Richardson’s work has a moral purpose. His intention,
as he tells us, was to make poetry subservient to philosophy, and to employ it in tracing the
principles of human conduct. Accordingly, he has prejudiced his claims as a literary critic.
He is not interested in Shakespeare’s art for its own sake; but that he should use Shakespeare’s
characters as the subjects of moral disquisitions is eloquent testimony to their truth to nature.
His classical bias, excusable in a Professor of Latin, is best seen in his essay “On the Faults
of Shakespeare,”(30) of which the title was alone sufficient to win him the contempt of later
critics. His essays are the dull effusions of a clever man. Though they are not inspiriting,
they are not without interest. He recognised that the source of Shakespeare’s greatness is
that he became for the time the person whom he represented.

Before the appearance of Richardson’s Philosophical Analysis, Thomas Whately had written his
Remarks on Some of the Characters of Shakespeare; but it was not published till 1785. The author,
who died in 1772, had abandoned it in order to complete, in 1770, his Observations on Modern
Gardening. The book contains only a short introduction and a comparison of Macbeth and Richard
III. The fragment is sufficient, however, to indicate more clearly than the work of Richardson
the coming change. The author has himself remarked on the novelty of his method. The passage
must be quoted, as it is the first definite statement that the examination of Shakespeare’s
characters should be the main object of Shakespearian criticism:

    “The writers upon dramatic composition have, for the most part,
    confined their observations to the fable; and the maxims received
    amongst them, for the conduct of it, are therefore emphatically
    called, The Rules of the Drama. It has been found easy to give
    and to apply them; they are obvious, they are certain, they are
    general: and poets without genius have, by observing them,
    pretended to fame; while critics without discernment have assumed
    importance from knowing them. But the regularity thereby
    established, though highly proper, is by no means the first
    requisite in a dramatic composition. Even waiving all
    consideration of those finer feelings which a poet’s imagination
    or sensibility imparts, there is, within the colder provinces of
    judgment and of knowledge, a subject for criticism more worthy of
    attention than the common topics of discussion: I mean the
    distinction and preservation of character.”

The earlier critics who remarked on Shakespeare’s depiction of character had not suspected
that the examination of it was to oust the older methods.

A greater writer, who has met with unaccountable neglect, was to express the same views independently.
Maurice Morgann had apparently written his Essay on the Dramatic Character of Sir John Falstaff
about 1774, in an interval of political employment, but he was not prevailed upon to publish
it till 1777. The better we know it, the more we shall regret that it is the only critical
work which he allowed to survive. He too refers to his book as a “novelty.” He believes the
task of considering Shakespeare in detail to have been “hitherto unattempted.” But his main
object, unlike Whately’s or Richardson’s, is a “critique on the genius, the arts, and the conduct
of Shakespeare.” He concentrates his attention on a single character, only to advance to more
general criticism. “Falstaff is the word only, Shakespeare is the theme.”

Morgann’s book did not meet with the attention which it deserved, nor to this day has its importance
been fully recognised. Despite his warnings, his contemporaries regarded it simply as a defence
of Falstaff’s courage. One spoke of him as a paradoxical critic, and others doubted if he meant
what he said. All were unaccountably indifferent to his main purpose. The book was unknown
even to Hazlitt, who in the preface to his Characters of Shakespeare’s Plays alludes only to
Whately(31) and Richardson as his English predecessors. Yet it is the true forerunner of the
romantic criticism of Shakespeare. Morgann’s attitude to the characters is the same as Coleridge’s
and Hazlitt’s; his criticism, neglecting all formal matters, resolves itself into a study of
human nature. It was he who first said that Shakespeare’s creations should be treated as historic
rather than as dramatic beings. And the keynote of his criticism is that “the impression is
the fact.” He states what he feels, and he explains the reason in language which is barely
on this side idolatry.(32)

The Essays.

Nicholas Rowe.

Nicholas Rowe’s Account of the Life, etc., of Mr. William Shakespear forms the introduction
to his edition of Shakespeare’s plays (1709, 6 vols., 8vo).

Rowe has the double honour of being the first editor of the plays of Shakespeare and the first
to attempt an authoritative account of his life. The value of the biography can best be judged
by comparing it with the accounts given in such books as Fuller’s Worthies of England (1662),
Phillips’s Theatrum Poetarum (1675), Winstanley’s English Poets (1687), Langbaine’s English
Dramatick Poets (1691), Pope Blount’s Remarks upon Poetry (1694), or Jeremy Collier’s Historical
and Poetical Dictionary (1701). Though some of the traditions—for which he has acknowledged
his debt to Betterton—are of doubtful accuracy, it is safe to say that but for Rowe they would
have perished.

The Account of Shakespeare was the standard biography during the eighteenth century. It was
reprinted by Pope, Hanmer, Warburton, Johnson, Steevens, Malone, and Reed; but they did not
give it in the form in which Rowe had left it. Pope took the liberty of condensing and rearranging
it, and as he did not acknowledge what he had done, his silence led other editors astray. Those
who did note the alterations presumed that they had been made by Rowe himself in the second
edition in 1714. Steevens, for instance, states that he publishes the life from “Rowe’s second
edition, in which it had been abridged and altered by himself after its appearance in 1709.”
But what Steevens reprints is Rowe’s Account of Shakespeare as edited by Pope. In this volume
the Account is given in its original form for the first time since 1714.

Pope omitted passages dealing only indirectly with Shakespeare, or expressing opinions with
which he disagreed. He also placed the details of Shakespeare’s later years (pp. 21-3) immediately
after the account of his relationship with Ben Jonson (p. 9), so that the biography might form
a complete portion by itself. With the exception of an occasional word, nothing occurs in the
emended edition which is not to be found somewhere in the first.

A seventh and supplementary volume containing the Poems was added in 1710.

John Dennis.

John Dennis’s three letters “on the genius and writings of Shakespear” (February 1710-11) were
published together in 1712 under the title An Essay on the Genius and Writings of Shakespear.
The volume contained also two letters on the 40th and 47th numbers of the Spectator. All were
reprinted in Dennis’s Original Letters, Familiar, Moral and Critical, 2 vols., 1721. The Dedication
is to George Granville, then Secretary at War. “To whom,” says Dennis, “can an Essay upon the
Genius and Writings of Shakespear be so properly address’d, as to him who best understands
Shakespear, and who has most improv’d him? I would not give this just encomium to the Jew of
Venice, if I were not convinc’d, from a long experience of the penetration and force of your
judgment, that no exaltation can make you asham’d of your former noble art.”

In 1693 Dennis had published the Impartial Critick, a reply to Rymer’s Short View of Tragedy;
but there is little about Shakespeare in its five dialogues, their main purpose being to show
the absurdity of Rymer’s plea for adopting the Greek methods in the English drama. Dennis had,
however, great respect for Rymer’s ability. In the first letter to the Spectator he says that
Rymer “will always pass with impartial posterity for a most learned, a most judicious, and
a most useful critick”; and in the Characters and Conduct of Sir John Edgar he says that “there
was a great deal of good and just criticism” in the Short View.

In 1702 he brought out a “corrected” version of the Merry Wives with the title of the Comical
Gallant or the Amours of Sir John Falstaffe. The adaptation of Coriolanus, which was the occasion
of the Letters given in this volume, appeared as the Invader of his country, or the Fatal Resentment.
It was produced at Drury Lane in November, 1719, but ran for only three nights. It was published
in 1720. An account of it will be found in Genest’s English Stage, iii. 2-5. It is the subject
of Dennis’s letter to Steele of 26th March, 1719 (see Steele’s Theatre, ed. Nichols, 1791,
ii. pp. 542, etc.).

Alexander Pope.

Pope’s edition of Shakespeare was published by Tonson in six quarto volumes. The first appeared
in 1725, as the title-page shows; all the others are dated “1723.”

In the note to the line in the Dunciad in which he laments his “ten years to comment and translate,”
Pope gives us to understand that he prepared his edition of Shakespeare after he had completed
the translation of the Iliad and before he set to work on the Odyssey. His own correspondence,
however, shows that he was engaged on Shakespeare and the Odyssey at the same time. There is
some uncertainty as to when his edition was begun. The inference to be drawn from a letter
to Pope from Atterbury is that it had been undertaken by August, 1721. We have more definite
information as to the date of its completion. In a letter to Broome of 31st October, 1724,
Pope writes: “Shakespear is finished. I have just written the Preface, and in less than three
weeks it will be public” (Ed. Elwin and Courthope, viii. 88). But it did not appear till March.
Pope himself was partly to blame for the delay. In December we find Tonson “impatient” for
the return of the Preface (id. ix. 547). In the revision of the text Pope was assisted by Fenton
and Gay (see Reed’s Variorum edition, 1803, ii. p. 149).

A seventh volume containing the poems was added in 1725, but Pope had no share in it. It is
a reprint of the supplementary volume of Rowe’s edition, “the whole revised and corrected,
with a Preface, by Dr. Sewell.” The most prominent share in this volume of “Pope’s Shakespeare”
thus fell to Charles Gildon, who had attacked Pope in his Art of Poetry and elsewhere, and
was to appear later in the Dunciad. Sewell’s preface is dated Nov. 24, 1724.

Pope made few changes in his Preface in the second edition (1728, 8 vols., 12mo). The chief
difference is the inclusion of the Double Falshood, which Theobald had produced in 1727 as
Shakespeare’s, in the list of the spurious plays.

The references in the Preface to the old actors were criticised by John Roberts in 1729 in
a pamphlet entitled An Answer to Mr. Pope’s Preface to Shakespear. In a Letter to a Friend.
Being a Vindication of the Old Actors who were the Publishers and Performers of that Author’s
Plays.... By a Stroling Player.

Lewis Theobald.

Theobald’s edition of Shakespeare (7 vols. 8vo) appeared in 1733. The Preface was condensed
in the second edition in 1740. It is here given in its later form.

Theobald had long been interested in Shakespeare. In 1715 he had written the Cave of Poverty,
a poem “in imitation of Shakespeare,” and in 1720 he had brought out an adaptation of Richard
II. But it was not till 1726—though the Dedication bears the date of March 18, 1725—that he
produced his first direct contribution to Shakespearian scholarship,—Shakespeare restored:
or, a Specimen of the Many Errors, as well Committed, as Unamended, by Mr. Pope in his Late
Edition of this Poet. Designed Not only to correct the said Edition, but to restore the True
Reading of Shakespeare in all the Editions ever yet publish’d.

We learn from a letter by Theobald dated 15th April, 1729, that he had been in correspondence
with Pope fully two years before the publication of this volume. (See Nichols, Illustrations
of the Literary History of the Eighteenth Century, ii., p. 221). Pope, however, had not encouraged
his advances. In the same letter Theobald states that he had no design of commenting on Shakespeare
till he saw “how incorrect an edition Mr. Pope had given the publick.” This remark was prompted
by a note in the Dunciad of 1729, where it was stated that “during the space of two years,
while Mr. Pope was preparing his Edition of Shakespear, and published advertisements, requesting
all lovers of the author to contribute to a more perfect one, this Restorer (who had then some
correspondence with him, and was solliciting favours by letters) did wholly conceal his design,
’till after its publication.” But if Theobald had not thought of issuing comments on Shakespeare’s
plays till Pope’s edition appeared, he must have known them well already, for Shakespeare Restored
is not a hasty piece of work.

Despite the aggressiveness of the title, Theobald protests his regard for Pope in such passages
as these:

    “It was no small Satisfaction therefore to me, when I first heard
    Mr. Pope had taken upon him the Publication of Shakespeare. I
    very reasonably expected, from his known Talents and Abilities,
    from his uncommon Sagacity and Discernment, and from his unwearied
    Diligence and Care of informing himself by an happy and extensive
    Conversation, we should have had our Author come out as perfect,
    as the want of Manuscripts and original Copies could give us a
    Possibility of hoping. I may dare to say, a great Number of
    Shakespeare’s Admirers, and of Mr. Pope’s too, (both which I
    sincerely declare myself,) concurred in this Expectation: For
    there is a certain curiosa felicitas, as was said of an eminent
    Roman Poet, in that Gentleman’s Way of working, which, we
    presum’d, would have laid itself out largely in such a Province;
    and that he would not have sate down contented with performing, as
    he calls it himself, the dull Duty of an Editor only.”

    “I have so great an Esteem for Mr. Pope, and so high an Opinion
    of his Genius and Excellencies, that I beg to be excused from the
    least Intention of derogating from his Merits, in this Attempt to
    restore the true Reading of Shakespeare. Tho’ I confess a
    Veneration, almost rising to Idolatry, for the writings of this
    inimitable Poet, I would be very loth even to do him Justice at
    the Expence of that other Gentleman’s Character.”

Whether or not these declarations were sincere, they would hardly have stayed the resentment
of a less sensitive man than Pope when passage after passage was pointed out where errors were
“as well committed as unamended.” Theobald even hazarded the roguish suggestion that the bookseller
had played his editor false by not sending him all the sheets to revise; and he certainly showed
that the readings of Rowe’s edition had occasionally been adopted without the professed collation
of the older copies. The volume could raise no doubt of Theobald’s own diligence. The chief
part of it is devoted to an examination of the text of Hamlet, but there is a long appendix
dealing with readings in other plays, and in it occurs the famous emendation of the line in
Henry V. describing Falstaff’s death,—“for his nose was as sharp as a pen, and a’ babled of
green fields.” It should be noted that the credit of this reading is not entirely Theobald’s.
He admits that in an edition “with some marginal conjectures of a Gentleman sometime deceased”
he found the emendation “and a’ talked of green fields.” Theobald’s share thus amounts to the
doubtful improvement of substituting babbled for talked.

Though this volume has undoubted merits, it is not difficult to understand why the name of
Theobald came to convey to the eighteenth century the idea of painful pedantry, and why one
so eminently just as Johnson should have dubbed him “a man of heavy diligence, with very slender
powers.” While his knowledge is indisputable, he has little or no delicacy of taste; his style
is dull and lumbering; and the mere fact that he dedicated his Shakespeare Restored to John
Rich, the Covent Garden manager who specialised in pantomime and played the part of harlequin,
may at least cast some doubt on his discretion. But he successfully attacked Pope where he
was weakest and where as an editor he should have been strongest. “From this time,” in the
words of Johnson, “Pope became an enemy to editors, collators, commentators, and verbal critics;
and hoped to persuade the world that he had miscarried in this undertaking only by having a
mind too great for such minute employment.”

Not content with the errors pointed out in Shakespeare Restored—a quarto volume of two hundred
pages—Theobald continued his criticisms of Pope’s edition in Mist’s Journal and the Daily Journal,
until he was ripe for the Dunciad. Pope enthroned him as the hero of the poem, and so he remained
till he was replaced by Colley Cibber in 1741, when the alteration necessitated several omissions.
In the earlier editions Theobald soliloquised thus:

    Here studious I unlucky Moderns save,
    Nor sleeps one error in its father’s grave,
    Old puns restore, lost blunders nicely seek,
    And crucify poor Shakespear once a week.
    For thee I dim these eyes, and stuff this head,
    With all such reading as was never read;
    For the supplying, in the worst of days,
    Notes to dull books, and prologues to dull plays;
    For thee explain a thing ’till all men doubt it,
    And write about it, Goddess, and about it.

Theobald is introduced also in the Art of Sinking in Poetry among the classes of authors described
as swallows and eels: the former “are eternally skimming and fluttering up and down, but all
their agility is employed to catch flies,” the latter “wrap themselves up in their own mud,
but are mighty nimble and pert.” About the same time, however, Pope brought out the second
edition (1728) of his Shakespeare, and in it he incorporated some of Theobald’s conjectures,
though his recognition of their merit was grudging and even dishonestly inadequate. (See the
preface to the various readings at the end of the eighth volume, 1728.) Yet one’s sympathies
with Theobald are prejudiced by his ascription to Shakespeare of the Double Falshood, or the
Distrest Lovers, a play which was acted in 1727 and printed in the following year. Theobald
professed to have revised it and adapted it to the stage. The question of authorship has not
been settled, but if Theobald is relieved from the imputation of forgery, he must at least
stand convicted of ignorance of the Shakespearian manner. Pope at once recognised that the
play was not Shakespeare’s, and added a contemptuous reference to it in the second edition
of his Preface. It was the opinion of Farmer that the groundwork of the play was by Shirley
(see the Essay on the Learning of Shakespeare, p. 181).

Theobald now sought to revenge himself on Pope, and, in his own words, he “purposed to reply
only in Shakespeare” (Nichols, id. ii., p. 248). His first plan was to publish a volume of
Remarks on Shakespeare. On 15th April, 1729, he says the volume “will now shortly appear in
the world” (id., p. 222), but on 6th November he writes to Warburton, “I know you will not
be displeased, if I should tell you in your ear, perhaps I may venture to join the Text to
my Remarks” (id., p. 254). By the following March he had definitely determined upon giving
an edition of Shakespeare, as appears from another letter to Warburton: “As it is necessary
I should now inform the publick that I mean to attempt to give them an edition of that Poet’s
[i.e. Shakespeare’s] text, together with my corrections, I have concluded to give this notice,
not only by advertisements, but by an occasional pamphlet, which, in order to retaliate some
of our Editor’s kindnesses to me, I mean to call, An Essay upon Mr. Pope’s Judgment, extracted
from his own Works; and humbly addressed to him” (id. ii., p. 551). Of this he forwards Warburton
an extract. The pamphlet does not appear to have been published. The Miscellany on Taste which
he brought out anonymously in 1732 contains a section entitled “Of Mr. Pope’s Taste of Shakespeare,”
but this is merely a reprint of the letter of 15th (or 16th) April, which had already been
printed in the Daily Journal. A considerable time elapsed before arrangements for publication
were completed, the interval being marked by a temporary estrangement from Warburton and an
unsuccessful candidature for the laureateship. Articles with Tonson were signed in November,
1731 (id. ii., pp. 13, 618), and at the same time the correspondence with Warburton was renewed.
The edition did not appear till 1733. The Preface had been begun about the end of 1731.

From March, 1729, with the short break in 1730, Theobald had been in steady correspondence
with Warburton, and most of his letters, with a few of those of Warburton, have been preserved
by Nichols (see id. ii., pp. 189, 607). But it would have been more fortunate for Theobald’s
reputation had they perished. The cruel contempt and bitterness of Warburton’s references to
him after their final estrangement may be offensive, but the correspondence shows that they
were not without some justification. Theobald submits his conjectures anxiously to the judgment
of Warburton, and again and again Warburton saves him from himself. In one of the letters Theobald
rightly condemns Pope’s proposed insertion of “Francis Drake” in the incomplete line at the
end of the first scene of Henry VI., Part 1.; but not content with this flawless piece of destructive
criticism he argues for inserting the words “and Cassiopeia.” The probability is that if Warburton
had not condemned the proposal it would have appeared in Theobald’s edition. “With a just deference
to your most convincing reasons,” says Theobald, “I shall with great cheerfulness banish it
as a bad and unsupported conjecture” (id. ii., p. 477); and this remark is typical of the whole
correspondence. A considerable share of the merit of Theobald’s edition—though the share is
mostly negative—belongs to Warburton, for Theobald had not taste enough to keep him right when
he stepped beyond collation of the older editions or explanation by parallel passages. Indeed,
the letters to Warburton, besides helping to explain his reputation in the eighteenth century,
would in themselves be sufficient to justify his place in the Dunciad.

Warburton had undoubtedly given Theobald ungrudging assistance and was plainly interested in
the success of the edition. But as he had gauged Theobald’s ability, he had some fears for
the Preface. So at least we gather from a letter which Theobald wrote to him on 18th November,
1731:

    “I am extremely obliged for the tender concern you have for my
    reputation in what I am to prefix to my Edition: and this part,
    as it will come last in play, I shall certainly be so kind to
    myself to communicate in due time to your perusal. The whole
    affair of Prolegomena I have determined to soften into
    Preface. I am so very cool as to my sentiments of my Adversary’s
    usage, that I think the publick should not be too largely troubled
    with them. Blockheadry is the chief hinge of his satire upon me;
    and if my Edition do not wipe out that, I ought to be content to
    let the charge be fixed; if it do, the reputation gained will be a
    greater triumph than resentment. But, dear Sir, will you, at your
    leisure hours, think over for me upon the contents, topics,
    orders, etc., of this branch of my labour? You have a
    comprehensive memory, and a happiness of digesting the matter
    joined to it, which my head is often too much embarrassed to
    perform; let that be the excuse for my inability. But how
    unreasonable is it to expect this labour, when it is the only part
    in which I shall not be able to be just to my friends: for, to
    confess assistance in a Preface will, I am afraid, make me
    appear too naked. Rymer’s extravagant rancour against our Author,
    under the umbrage of criticism, may, I presume, find a place here”
    (id. ii., pp. 621, 622).

This confession of weakness is valuable in the light of Warburton’s Preface to his own edition
of 1747. His statement of the assistance he rendered Theobald is rude and cruel, but it is
easier to impugn his taste than his truthfulness. Theobald did not merely ask for assistance
in the Preface; he received it too. Warburton expressed himself on this matter, with his customary
force and with a pleasing attention to detail, in a letter to the Rev. Thomas Birch on 24th
November, 1737. “You will see in Theobald’s heap of disjointed stuff,” he says, “which he calls
a Preface to Shakespeare, an observation upon those poems [i.e. L’Allegro and Il Penseroso]
which I made to him, and which he did not understand, and so has made it a good deal obscure
by contracting my note; for you must understand that almost all that Preface (except what relates
to Shakespeare’s Life, and the foolish Greek conjectures at the end) was made up of notes I
sent him on particular passages, and which he has there stitched together without head or tail”
(Nichols, ii., p. 81). The Preface is indeed a poor piece of patch-work. Examination of the
footnotes throughout the edition corroborates Warburton’s concluding statement. Some of the
annotations which have his name attached to them are repeated almost verbatim (e.g. the note
in Love’s Labour’s Lost on the use of music), while the comparison of Addison and Shakespeare
is taken from a letter written by Warburton to Concanen in 1726-7 (id. ii., pp. 195, etc.).
The inequality of the essay—the fitful succession of limp and acute observations—can be explained
only by ill-matched collaboration.

Warburton has himself indicated the extent of Theobald’s debt to him. In his own copy of Theobald’s
Shakespeare he marked the passages which he had contributed to the Preface, as well as the
notes “which Theobald deprived him of and made his own,” and the volume is now in the Capell
collection in Trinity College, Cambridge. Mr. Churton Collins, in his attempt to prove Theobald
the greatest of Shakespearean editors, has said that “if in this copy, which we have not had
the opportunity of inspecting, Warburton has laid claim to more than Theobald has assigned
to him, we believe him to be guilty of dishonesty even more detestable than that of which the
proofs are, as we have shown, indisputable.”(33) An inspection of the Cambridge volume is not
necessary to show that a passage in the Preface has been conveyed from one of Warburton’s letters
published by Nichols and by Malone. Any defence of Theobald by an absolute refusal to believe
Warburton’s word can be of no value unless some proof be adduced that Warburton was here untruthful,
and it is peculiarly inept when Theobald’s own page proclaims the theft. We know that Theobald
asked Warburton for assistance in the Preface, and gave warning that such assistance would
not be acknowledged. Warburton could have had no evil motive in marking those passages in his
private copy; and there is surely a strong presumption in favour of a man who deliberately
goes over seven volumes, carefully indicating the material which he considered his own. It
happens that one of the passages contains an unfriendly allusion to Pope. If Warburton meant
to be “dishonest”—and there could be no purpose in being dishonest before he was Theobald’s
enemy—why did he not disclaim this allusion some years later? The simple explanation is that
he marked the passages for his own amusement while he was still on friendly terms with Theobald.
They are thirteen in number, and they vary in length from a few lines to two pages. Four of
them are undoubtedly his, and there is nothing to disprove that the other nine are his also.(34)

Theobald quotes also from his own correspondence. On 17th March, 1729-30, he had written to
Warburton a long letter dealing with Shakespeare’s knowledge of languages and including a specimen
of his proposed pamphlet against Pope. “Your most necessary caution against inconsistency,
with regard to my opinion of Shakespeare’s knowledge in languages,” he there says characteristically,
“shall not fail to have all its weight with me. And therefore the passages that I occasionally
quote from the Classics shall not be brought as proofs that he imitated those originals, but
to shew how happily he has expressed themselves upon the same topics” (Nichols, ii., pp. 564,
etc.). This part of the letter is included verbatim three years afterwards in the Preface.
So also is the other passage in the same letter replying to Pope on the subject of Shakespeare’s
anachronisms. Theobald borrows even from his own published writings. Certain passages are reproduced
from the Introduction to Shakespeare Restored.

If Theobald could hardly acknowledge, as he said, the assistance he received in writing the
Preface, he at least admitted his editorial debt to Warburton and others punctiliously and
handsomely. After referring to Dr. Thirlby of Jesus College, Cambridge, and Hawley Bishop,
he thus writes of his chief helper:

    “To these, I must add the indefatigable Zeal and Industry of my
    most ingenious and ever-respected Friend, the Reverend Mr.
    William Warburton of Newark upon Trent. This Gentleman, from
    the Motives of his frank and communicative Disposition,
    voluntarily took a considerable Part of my Trouble off my Hands;
    not only read over the whole Author for me, with the exactest
    Care; but enter’d into a long and laborious Epistolary
    Correspondence; to which I owe no small Part of my best Criticisms
    upon my Author.

    “The Number of Passages amended, and admirably Explained, which I
    have taken care to distinguish with his Name, will shew a Fineness
    of Spirit and Extent of Reading, beyond all the Commendations I
    can give them: Nor, indeed, would I any farther be thought to
    commend a Friend, than, in so doing, to give a Testimony of my own
    Gratitude.”

So the preface read in 1733. But by the end of 1734 Warburton had quarrelled with Theobald,
and by 1740, after a passing friendship with Sir Thomas Hanmer, had become definitely attached
to the party of Pope. This is probably the reason why, in the Preface to the second edition,
Theobald does not repeat the detailed statement of the assistance he had received. He wisely
omits also the long and irrelevant passage of Greek conjectures, given with no other apparent
reason than to parade his learning. And several passages either claimed by Warburton (e.g.
that referring to Milton’s poems) or known to be his (e.g. the comparison of Addison and Shakespeare)
are also cancelled.

The merits of the text of Theobald’s edition are undeniable; but the text is not to be taken
as the sole measure of his ability. By his diligence in collation he restored many of the original
readings. His knowledge of Elizabethan literature was turned to good account in the explanation
and illustration of the text. He claims to have read above eight hundred old English plays
“to ascertain the obsolete and uncommon phrases.” But when we have spoken of his diligence,
we have spoken of all for which, as an editor, he was remarkable. Pope had good reason to say
of him, though he gave the criticism a wider application, that

    Pains, reading, study are their just pretence,
    And all they want is spirit, taste, and sense.

The inner history of his Preface would prove of itself that Theobald well deserved the notoriety
which he enjoyed in the eighteenth century.

Sir Thomas Hanmer.

Sir Thomas Hanmer’s edition of Shakespeare, in six handsome quarto volumes, was printed at
the Clarendon Press in 1743-44. As it appeared anonymously it was commonly called the “Oxford
edition.” It was well known, however, that Hanmer was the editor. Vols. ii., iii., and iv.
bear the date 1743; the others, 1744.

Hanmer had been Speaker of the House of Commons from 1713 to 1715, and had played an important
part in securing the Protestant succession on the death of Queen Anne. He retired from public
life on the accession of George II., and thereafter lived in “lettered ease” at his seat of
Mildenhall near Newmarket till his death in 1746. It is not known when he undertook his edition
of Shakespeare, but the idea of it was probably suggested to him by the publication of Theobald’s
edition in 1733. His relative and biographer, Sir Henry Bunbury, writing in 1838, refers to
a copy of this edition with corrections and notes on the text of every play in Hanmer’s handwriting.
There can be no doubt, however, of the accuracy of Warburton’s statement that his edition was
printed from Pope’s, though the hastiest examination will prove the falsity of Warburton’s
other remark that Hanmer neglected to compare Pope’s edition with Theobald’s. He relied on
Pope’s judgment as to the authenticity of passages and on Theobald’s accuracy in collation.
Thus while he omits lines which Pope had omitted, or degrades them to the foot of the page,
he often adopts Theobald’s reading of a word or phrase.

He had certainly made considerable progress with the edition by May, 1738, when he was visited
by Warburton (see Nichols, Illustrations, ii. 44, 69). It was still incomplete in March, 1742,
but it was sent to the printer at the end of that year, as we learn from a letter of 30th December
to Zachary Grey, the editor of Hudibras: “I must now acquaint you that the books are gone out
of my hands, and lodged with the University of Oxford, which hath been willing to accept of
them as a present from me. They intend to print them forthwith, in a fair impression adorned
with sculptures; but it will be so ordered that it will be the cheapest book that ever was
exposed to sale.... None are to go into the hands of booksellers” (Nichols, Literary Anecdotes,
v., p. 589). Earlier in the year, in the important letter concerning his quarrel with Warburton,
which will be referred to later, he had spoken of his edition in the following terms: “As to
my own particular, I have no aim to pursue in this affair; I propose neither honour, reward,
or thanks, and should be very well pleased to have the books continue upon their shelf, in
my own private closet. If it is thought they may be of use or pleasure to the publick, I am
willing to part with them out of my hands, and to add, for the honour of Shakespear, some decorations
and embellishments at my own expense” (id. v., p. 589). The printing of the edition was not
supervised by Hanmer himself, but by Joseph Smith, Provost of Queen’s College, and Robert Shippen,
Principal of Brasenose. We find them receiving instructions that there must be care in the
correction of the press, that the type must be as large as in Pope’s edition, but that the
paper must be better.

These facts are of interest in connection with Hanmer’s inclusion in the fourth book of the
Dunciad. In a note by Pope and Warburton he is referred to as “an eminent person, who was about
to publish a very pompous edition of a great author, at his own expense”; and in the poem the
satire is maladroitly aimed at the handsomeness of the volumes. Warburton afterwards implied
that he was responsible for the inclusion of this passage (id., p. 590), and though the claim
is disputed by Hanmer’s biographer, the ineffectiveness of the attack would prove that it was
not spontaneous. Pope, however, would yield to Warburton’s desire the more readily if, as Sir
Henry Bunbury had reason to believe, the anonymous Remarks on the Tragedy of Hamlet, published
in 1736, was the work of Hanmer,(35) for there Pope’s edition was compared unfavourably, though
courteously, with that of Theobald. (See the Correspondence of Sir Thomas Hanmer, 1838, pp.
80, etc.)

William Warburton.

“The Works of Shakespear in Eight Volumes. The Genuine Text (collated with all the former Editions,
and then corrected and emended) is here settled: Being restored from the Blunders of the first
Editors, and the Interpolations of the two Last; with a Comment and Notes, Critical and Explanatory.
By Mr. Pope and Mr. Warburton. 1747.”

So runs the title of what is generally known as Warburton’s edition. It is professedly a revised
issue of Pope’s. In point of fact it is founded, not on Pope’s text, but on the text of Theobald.
Warburton does not follow even Pope’s arrangement of the plays. With one insignificant transposition,
he gives them in the identical order in which they appear in Theobald’s edition. And though
he has his gibe at Hanmer in the title page, he incorporates Hanmer’s glossary word for word,
and almost letter for letter. But his animosity betrays him in his Preface. He complains of
the trouble which he has been put to by the last two editors, for he has had “not only their
interpolations to throw out, but the genuine text to replace and establish in its stead.” He
would not have had this trouble had he used Pope’s edition. He may have believed that what
he took from Hanmer and Theobald was very much less than what they had received from him. According
to his own statements he supplied each with a large number of important emendations which had
been used without acknowledgment. Yet this does not excuse the suggestion that his edition
was founded on Pope’s.

The explanation is Warburton’s just pride in Pope’s friendship,—a pride which he took every
opportunity of gratifying and parading. But in his earlier days he had been, all unknown to
Pope, an enemy. He escaped the Dunciad by reason of his obscurity. He was the friend of Concanen
and Theobald, and in a letter to the former, containing his earliest extant attempt at Shakespearian
criticism, he observes that “Dryden borrows for want of leisure, and Pope for want of genius.”
The letter is dated 2nd January, 1726-27, but luckily for Warburton it was not publicly known
till, in 1766, Akenside used it as a means of paying off old scores (see Nichols, Illustrations,
ii., pp. 195-198, and Malone’s Shakespeare, 1821, vol. xii., pp. 157, etc.). It is of interest
also from the fact that Theobald transcribed from it almost verbatim the comparison of Shakespeare
and Addison in the Preface of 1733.

Theobald’s deference and even humility must have confirmed Warburton’s confidence in his own
critical powers, but it was not till Theobald’s Shakespeare was published that Warburton first
hinted at an edition by himself. From 1729 to 1733 he had given Theobald loyally of his best.
On the appearance of the edition he betrayed some annoyance that all his suggestions had not
been accepted. “I have transcribed about fifty emendations and remarks,” he writes on 17th
May, 1734, “which I have at several times sent you, omitted in the Edition of Shakespeare,
which, I am sure, are better than any of mine published there. These I shall convey to you
soon, and desire you to publish them (as omitted by being mislaid) in your Edition of the ‘Poems,’
which I hope you will soon make ready for the press” (Nichols, Illustrations, ii., p. 634).
These he duly forwarded, along with a flattering criticism of the edition. He gives no hint
that he may himself turn them to account, till the October of the same year, when he writes,
“I have a great number of notes, etc., on Shakespeare, for some future Edition” (id., p. 654).
Here the correspondence ceases. Up to this time Warburton had aided Theobald’s schemes of retaliating
on Pope. We have his own authority for attributing to him the remark in Theobald’s Preface
that “it seems a moot point whether Mr. Pope has done most injury to Shakespeare as his Editor
and Encomiast, or Mr. Rymer done him service as his Rival and Censurer.” It is probable even
that he had a hand in Theobald’s and Concanen’s Art of a Poet’s sinking in Reputation, or a
Supplement to the Art of sinking in Poetry.

Warburton then gave his services to Sir Thomas Hanmer. They had become acquainted by 1736,
and they corresponded frequently till Warburton’s visit to Mildenhall in May, 1737. It is needless
to enter into their quarrel, for the interest of it is purely personal. Hanmer told his version
of it to Joseph Smith, the Provost of Queen’s College, Oxford, in his letter of 28th October,
1742, and Warburton gave his very different account nineteen years later, on 29th January,
1761, when he discovered that Hanmer’s letter was about to be published in the Biographia Britannica.
In the absence of further evidence it is impossible to decide with whom the truth rests. The
dignity of Hanmer’s letter wins favour by contrast with the violence of Warburton’s. Yet there
must be some truth in Warburton’s circumstantial details, though his feelings may have prevented
his seeing them in proper perspective. He says that Hanmer used his notes without his knowledge.
The statement is probably accurate. But when Hanmer says that Warburton’s notes were “sometimes
just but mostly wild and out of the way,” we are satisfied, from what we know of Warburton’s
other work, that the criticism was merited. Hanmer apparently found that Warburton did not
give him much help, and Warburton may have been annoyed at failing to find Hanmer as docile
as Theobald. They had quarrelled by September, 1739, when Warburton records that he has got
all his letters and papers out of Sir Thomas Hanmer’s hands (Nichols, Illustrations, ii. 110.
See also Nichols, Literary Anecdotes, v. 588-590; Biographia Britannica, vol vi. (1763), pp.
3743-4, and appendix, p. 223; Philip Nichols, The Castrated Letter of Sir Thomas Hanmer, 1763;
and Bunbury, Correspondence of Hanmer, pp. 85-90).

During his friendship with Hanmer, Warburton had not lost sight of his own edition. The quarrel
was precipitated by Hanmer’s discovery of Warburton’s intention; but there is no evidence that
Warburton had tried to conceal it. Everything goes to show that each editor was so immersed
in his own scheme that he regarded the other as his collaborator. Hanmer did not know at first
that Warburton was planning an edition as a means of making some money; and Warburton had not
suspected that Hanmer would publish an edition at all. This is the only reasonable inference
to be drawn from a letter written by him to the Rev. Thomas Birch in October, 1737. “You are
pleased to enquire about Shakespeare,” he writes. “I believe (to tell it as a secret) I shall,
after I have got the whole of this work out of my hands which I am now engaged in, give an
Edition of it to the world. Sir Thomas Hanmer has a true critical genius, and has done great
things in this Author; so you may expect to see a very extraordinary edition of its kind. I
intend to draw up and prefix to it a just and complete critique on Shakespeare and his Works.”
This letter reads curiously in the light of after events; but it proves, if it proves anything,
that Warburton did not suspect Hanmer’s scheme, and believed that Hanmer was helping him in
his edition. It is equally plain that Hanmer believed he was being helped by Warburton.

Announcements of Warburton’s forthcoming edition were made in Birch’s article on Shakespeare
in the General Dictionary, Historical and Critical, vol. ix., January, 1739-40, and in the
History of the Works of the Learned for 1740 (Nichols, Illustrations, ii., pp. 72-4, and Lit.
Anecdotes, v., p. 559). But there were no signs of its appearance, and Hanmer had good reason
to say in October, 1742, in his letter to Joseph Smith, “I am satisfied there is no edition
coming or likely to come from Warburton; but it is a report raised to support some little purpose
or other, of which I see there are many on foot.” Up to this time Warburton had merely suggested
emendations and puzzled out explanations: he had not set to work seriously on the complete
text. Since 1740, when he published the Vindication of the Essay on Man, his critical and polemical
talents had been devoted to the service of Pope. To judge from what he says in his Preface,
his project of an edition of Shakespeare might have been abandoned had not Pope persuaded him
to proceed with it by the offer of making it appear their joint work. Pope had nothing to do
with it, for it was not begun till after his death. But it was a cruel fate that what professed
to be a new edition of his “Shakespeare” should really be founded on Theobald’s. The knowledge
of Theobald’s use of the Quartos and Folios led Warburton to commit a detestable quibble on
his title-page. There is said to be no evidence that Warburton himself had consulted them.
Yet the statement that his text is “collated with all the former editions” is not absolutely
without the bounds of truth: Theobald had consulted them, and Warburton does not say that he
had consulted them himself. What Warburton did was to give full play to his talent for emendation,
and to indulge what Johnson called his rage for saying something when there is nothing to be
said. Yet we are too prone to depreciate Warburton. He has prejudiced his reputation by his
arrogance and his contemptuous malignity; but we do him an injustice if we endeavour to gauge
his merit only by comparing his edition with those of his immediate predecessors. No early
editor of Shakespeare has gained more than Theobald and suffered more than Warburton by the
custom of attributing the whole merit of an edition to him whose name is on the title page.
When we read their correspondence and see their editions in the making, it is not difficult
to realise what Johnson meant when he said that Warburton as a critic would make “two and fifty
Theobalds, cut into slices.”

Samuel Johnson.

Johnson’s Preface is here reprinted from the edition of 1777, the last to appear in his lifetime.
The more important of the few alterations made on the original Preface of 1765 are pointed
out in the notes.

In 1745 Johnson had published his Miscellaneous Observations on the Tragedy of Macbeth: with
Remarks on Sir Thomas Hanmer’s Edition of Shakespeare. To which is affixed Proposals for a
new Edition of Shakespeare, with a Specimen. As Warburton’s edition was expected, this anonymous
scheme met with no encouragement, and Johnson laid it aside till 1756, when he issued new Proposals.
In the interval he had written of Shakespeare in the admirable Prologue which inaugurated Garrick’s
rule at Drury Lane, and had shadowed in the Rambler and in the Dedication to Mrs. Lennox’s
Shakespear Illustrated (1753) much of what was to appear in perfect form in the Preface of
1765. It was one of the conditions in the Proposals that the edition was to be published on
or before Christmas, 1757. As in the case of the Dictionary Johnson underestimated the labour
which such a work involved. In December, 1757, we find him saying that he will publish about
March, and in March he says it will be published before summer. He must have made considerable
progress at this time, as, according to his own statement, “many of the plays” were then printed.
But its preparation was interrupted by the Idler (April, 1758, to April, 1760). Thereafter
Johnson would appear to have done little to it till he was awakened to activity by the attack
on him in Churchill’s Ghost (1763). The edition at length appeared in October, 1765. “In 1764
and 1765,” says Boswell, “it should seem that Dr. Johnson was so busily employed with his edition
of Shakespeare as to have had little leisure for any other literary exertion, or indeed even
for private correspondence.” The Preface was also published by itself in 1765 with the title—Mr.
Johnson’s Preface to his Edition of Shakespear’s Plays.

The work immediately attracted great attention. Kenrick lost no time in issuing A Review of
Doctor Johnson’s New Edition of Shakespeare: in which the Ignorance or Inattention of that
Editor is exposed, and the Poet defended from the Persecution of his Commentators, 1765. Johnson
was “above answering for himself,” but James Barclay, an Oxford student, replied for him, to
his annoyance, in An Examination of Mr. Kenrick’s Review, 1766, and Kenrick himself rejoined
in A Defence of Mr. Kenrick’s Review ... By a Friend, 1766. The most important criticism of
the edition was Tyrwhitt’s Observations and Conjectures upon some Passages of Shakespeare,
issued anonymously by the Clarendon Press in 1766. Though we read that “the author has not
entered into the merits of Mr. Johnson’s performance, but has set down some observations and
conjectures,” the book is in effect an examination of Johnson’s edition. Notices appeared also
in the Monthly and Critical Reviews, the London Magazine, the Gentleman’s Magazine, and the
Annual Register. The Monthly Review devotes its two articles (October and November, 1765) chiefly
to the Preface. It examines at considerable length Johnson’s arguments against the “unities,”
and concludes that “there is hardly one of them which does not seem false or foreign to the
subject.” The Critical Review, on the other hand, pronounces them “worthy of Mr. Johnson’s
pen”; and the London Magazine admits their force, though it wishes that Johnson had “rather
retained the character of a reasoner than assumed that of a pleader.”

Richard Farmer.

Farmer’s Essay on the Learning of Shakespeare was published at Cambridge early in January,
1767. In the Preface to the second and enlarged edition, which appeared in the same year, Farmer
says that “the few who have been pleased to controvert any part of his doctrine have favoured
him with better manners than arguments.” This remark, like most of the Preface, appears to
be directed chiefly at the prejudiced notice which appeared in the Critical Review for January,
1767. The writer of it was well versed in the controversy, for he had expressed his opinion
unhesitatingly in an earlier number, and he lost no time in advancing new evidence in opposition
to Farmer’s doctrine; but he only provided Farmer with new proofs, which were at once incorporated
in the text of the Essay. The third edition, which was called for in 1789, differs from the
second only by the inclusion of a short “advertisement” and a final note explaining that Farmer
had abandoned his intention of publishing the Antiquities of Leicester. In the “Advertisement”
he admits that “a few corrections might probably be made, and many additional proofs of the
argument have necessarily occurred in more than twenty years”; but he did not think it necessary
to make any changes. He was content to leave the book in the hands of the printers, and accordingly
he is still described on the title-page as “Fellow of Emmanuel College, Cambridge,” though
he had succeeded to the mastership of his college in 1775.

Farmer had, however, already supplemented his Essay by a letter to Steevens, who printed it
as an appendix to his edition of Johnson’s Shakespeare in 1773. “The track of reading,” says
Farmer, “which I sometime ago endeavoured to prove more immediately necessary to a commentator
on Shakespeare, you have very successfully followed, and have consequently superseded some
remarks which I might otherwise have troubled you with. Those I now send you are such as I
marked on the margin of the copy you were so kind to communicate to me, and bear a very small
proportion to the miscellaneous collections of this sort which I may probably put together
some time or other.” Farmer did not carry out this intention, and the Essay on the Learning
of Shakespeare remains his only independent publication.

Maurice Morgann.

Morgann has himself told us in his Preface all that we know about the composition of his Essay
on the Dramatic Character of Sir John Falstaff. The result of a challenge arising out of a
friendly conversation, it was written “in a very short time” in 1774, and then laid aside and
almost forgotten. But for the advice of friends it would probably have remained in manuscript,
and been destroyed, like his other critical works, at his death. On their suggestion he revised
and enlarged it, as hastily as he had written it; and it appeared anonymously in the spring
of 1777. The original purpose of the Essay is indicated by the motto on the title-page: “I
am not John of Gaunt your grandfather, but yet no Coward, Hal”; but as Morgann wrote he passed
from Falstaff to the greater theme of Falstaff’s creator. He was persuaded to publish his Essay
because, though it dealt nominally with one character, its main subject was the art of Shakespeare.
For the same reason it finds a place in this volume.

In 1744 Corbyn Morris had briefly analysed the character of Falstaff in his Essay towards fixing
the true standards of Wit, Humour, Raillery, Satire, and Ridicule; Mrs. Montagu had expressed
the common opinion of his cowardice in her Essay on the Writings and Genius of Shakespeare;
the Biographia Britannica had declared him to be Shakespeare’s masterpiece; while his popularity
had led Kenrick to produce in 1766 Falstaff’s Wedding as a sequel to the second part of Henry
IV.; but Morgann’s Essay is the first detailed examination of his character. He was afterwards
the subject of papers by Cumberland in the Observer (1785, No. 73), and by Henry Mackenzie
in the Lounger (1786, Nos. 68, 69), and in 1789 he was described by Richardson in an essay
which reproduced Morgann’s title. None of these later works have the interest attaching to
James White’s Falstaff’s Letters (1796).

The Essay on Falstaff was republished, with a short biographical preface, in 1820, and a third
and last edition came out in 1825. What is apparently the first detailed criticism of it occurs
in the London Review for February, 1820.

It seems to be a kind of respect due to the memory of excellent men, especially of those whom
their wit and learning have made famous, to deliver some account of themselves, as well as
their works, to Posterity. For this reason, how fond do we see some people of discovering any
little personal story of the great men of Antiquity, their families, the common accidents of
their lives, and even their shape, make, and features have been the subject of critical enquiries.
How trifling soever this Curiosity may seem to be, it is certainly very natural; and we are
hardly satisfy’d with an account of any remarkable person, ’till we have heard him describ’d
even to the very cloaths he wears. As for what relates to men of letters, the knowledge of
an Author may sometimes conduce to the better understanding his book: And tho’ the Works of
Mr. Shakespear may seem to many not to want a comment, yet I fancy some little account of the
man himself may not be thought improper to go along with them.

He was the son of Mr. John Shakespear, and was born at Stratford upon Avon, in Warwickshire,
in April 1564. His family, as appears by the Register and publick Writings relating to that
Town, were of good figure and fashion there, and are mention’d as gentlemen. His father, who
was a considerable dealer in wool, had so large a family, ten children in all, that tho’ he
was his eldest son, he could give him no better education than his own employment. He had bred
him, ’tis true, for some time at a Free-school, where ’tis probable he acquir’d that little
Latin he was master of: But the narrowness of his circumstances, and the want of his assistance
at home, forc’d his father to withdraw him from thence, and unhappily prevented his further
proficiency in that language. It is without controversie, that he had no knowledge of the writings
of the antient poets, not only from this reason, but from his works themselves, where we find
no traces of any thing that looks like an imitation of ’em; the delicacy of his taste, and
the natural bent of his own great Genius, equal, if not superior to some of the best of theirs,
would certainly have led him to read and study ’em with so much pleasure, that some of their
fine images would naturally have insinuated themselves into, and been mix’d with his own writings;
so that his not copying at least something from them, may be an argument of his never having
read ’em. Whether his ignorance of the Antients were a disadvantage to him or no, may admit
of a dispute: For tho’ the knowledge of ’em might have made him more correct, yet it is not
improbable but that the regularity and deference for them, which would have attended that correctness,
might have restrain’d some of that fire, impetuosity, and even beautiful extravagance which
we admire in Shakespear: And I believe we are better pleas’d with those thoughts, altogether
new and uncommon, which his own imagination supply’d him so abundantly with, than if he had
given us the most beautiful passages out of the Greek and Latin poets, and that in the most
agreeable manner that it was possible for a master of the English language to deliver ’em.
Some Latin without question he did know, and one may see up and down in his Plays how far his
reading that way went: In Love’s Labour lost, the Pedant comes out with a verse of Mantuan;
and in Titus Andronicus, one of the Gothick princes, upon reading

    Integer vitæ scelerisque purus
    Non eget Mauri jaculis nec arcu—

says, “Tis a verse in Horace, but he remembers it out of his Grammar”: which, I suppose, was
the Author’s case. Whatever Latin he had, ’tis certain he understood French, as may be observ’d
from many words and sentences scatter’d up and down his Plays in that language; and especially
from one scene in Henry the Fifth written wholly in it. Upon his leaving school, he seems to
have given intirely into that way of living which his father propos’d to him; and in order
to settle in the world after a family manner, he thought fit to marry while he was yet very
young. His wife was the daughter of one Hathaway, said to have been a substantial yeoman in
the neighbourhood of Stratford. In this kind of settlement he continu’d for some time, ’till
an extravagance that he was guilty of forc’d him both out of his country and that way of living
which he had taken up; and tho’ it seem’d at first to be a blemish upon his good manners, and
a misfortune to him, yet it afterwards happily prov’d the occasion of exerting one of the greatest
Genius’s that ever was known in dramatick Poetry. He had, by a misfortune common enough to
young fellows, fallen into ill company; and amongst them, some that made a frequent practice
of Deer-stealing, engag’d him with them more than once in robbing a Park that belong’d to Sir
Thomas Lucy of Cherlecot near Stratford. For this he was prosecuted by that gentleman, as he
thought, somewhat too severely; and in order to revenge that ill usage, he made a ballad upon
him. And tho’ this, probably the first essay of his Poetry, be lost, yet it is said to have
been so very bitter, that it redoubled the prosecution against him to that degree, that he
was oblig’d to leave his business and family in Warwickshire, for some time, and shelter himself
in London.

It is at this time, and upon this accident, that he is said to have made his first acquaintance
in the Play-house. He was receiv’d into the Company then in being, at first in a very mean
rank; but his admirable wit, and the natural turn of it to the stage, soon distinguish’d him,
if not as an extraordinary Actor, yet as an excellent Writer. His name is printed, as the custom
was in those times, amongst those of the other Players, before some old Plays, but without
any particular account of what sort of parts he us’d to play; and tho’ I have inquir’d, I could
never meet with any further account of him this way, than that the top of his Performance was
the Ghost in his own Hamlet. I should have been much more pleas’d to have learn’d from some
certain authority, which was the first Play he wrote; it would be without doubt a pleasure
to any man, curious in things of this kind, to see and know what was the first essay of a fancy
like Shakespear’s. Perhaps we are not to look for his beginnings, like those of other authors,
among their least perfect writings; art had so little, and nature so large a share in what
he did, that, for ought I know, the performances of his youth, as they were the most vigorous,
and had the most fire and strength of imagination in ’em, were the best. I would not be thought
by this to mean, that his fancy was so loose and extravagant, as to be independent on the rule
and government of judgment; but that what he thought, was commonly so great, so justly and
rightly conceiv’d in it self, that it wanted little or no correction, and was immediately approv’d
by an impartial judgment at the first sight. Mr. Dryden seems to think that Pericles is one
of his first Plays; but there is no judgment to be form’d on that, since there is good reason
to believe that the greatest part of that Play was not written by him; tho’ it is own’d, some
part of it certainly was, particularly the last Act. But tho’ the order of time in which the
several pieces were written be generally uncertain, yet there are passages in some few of them
which seem to fix their dates. So the Chorus in the beginning of the fifth Act of Henry V.
by a compliment very handsomly turn’d to the Earl of Essex, shews the Play to have been written
when that Lord was General for the Queen in Ireland: And his Elogy upon Q. Elizabeth, and her
successor K. James, in the latter end of his Henry VIII. is a proof of that Play’s being written
after the accession of the latter of those two Princes to the crown of England. Whatever the
particular times of his writing were, the people of his age, who began to grow wonderfully
fond of diversions of this kind, could not but be highly pleas’d to see a Genius arise amongst
’em of so pleasurable, so rich a vein, and so plentifully capable of furnishing their favourite
entertainments. Besides the advantages of his wit, he was in himself a good-natur’d man, of
great sweetness in his manners, and a most agreeable companion; so that it is no wonder if
with so many good qualities he made himself acquainted with the best conversations of those
times. Queen Elizabeth had several of his Plays acted before her, and without doubt gave him
many gracious marks of her favour: It is that maiden Princess plainly, whom he intends by

    ——A fair Vestal, Throned by the West.
                            Midsummer Night’s Dream.

And that whole passage is a compliment very properly brought in, and very handsomely apply’d
to her. She was so well pleas’d with that admirable character of Falstaff, in the two parts
of Henry the Fourth, that she commanded him to continue it for one Play more, and to shew him
in love. This is said to be the occasion of his writing The Merry Wives of Windsor. How well
she was obey’d, the play it self is an admirable proof. Upon this occasion it may not be improper
to observe, that this part of Falstaff is said to have been written originally under the name
of Oldcastle; some of that family being then remaining, the Queen was pleas’d to command him
to alter it; upon which he made use of Falstaff. The present offence was indeed avoided; but
I don’t know whether the Author may not have been somewhat to blame in his second choice, since
it is certain that Sir John Falstaff, who was a Knight of the Garter, and a Lieutenant-general,
was a name of distinguish’d merit in the wars in France in Henry the Fifth’s and Henry the
Sixth’s times. What grace soever the Queen conferr’d upon him, it was not to her only he ow’d
the fortune which the reputation of his wit made. He had the honour to meet with many great
and uncommon marks of favour and friendship from the Earl of Southampton, famous in the histories
of that time for his friendship to the unfortunate Earl of Essex. It was to that noble Lord
that he dedicated his Poem of Venus and Adonis, the only piece of his Poetry which he ever
publish’d himself, tho’ many of his Plays were surrepticiously and lamely printed in his life-time.
There is one instance so singular in the magnificence of this Patron of Shakespear’s, that
if I had not been assur’d that the story was handed down by Sir William D’Avenant, who was
probably very well acquainted with his affairs, I should not have ventur’d to have inserted,
that my Lord Southampton at one time gave him a thousand pounds, to enable him to go through
with a purchase which he heard he had a mind to: A bounty very great, and very rare at any
time, and almost equal to that profuse generosity the present age has shewn to French Dancers
and Italian Eunuchs.

What particular habitude or friendships he contracted with private men, I have not been able
to learn, more than that every one who had a true taste of merit, and could distinguish men,
had generally a just value and esteem for him. His exceeding candor and good nature must certainly
have inclin’d all the gentler part of the world to love him, as the power of his wit oblig’d
the men of the most delicate knowledge and polite learning to admire him. Amongst these was
the incomparable Mr. Edmond Spencer, who speaks of him in his Tears of the Muses, not only
with the praises due to a good Poet, but even lamenting his absence with the tenderness of
a friend. The passage is in Thalia’s Complaint for the Decay of Dramatick Poetry, and the Contempt
the Stage then lay under, amongst his Miscellaneous Works, p. 147.

    And he the Man whom Nature’s self had made
    To mock her self, and Truth to imitate
    With friendly Counter under mimick Shade,
    Our pleasant Willy, ah! is dead of late:
    With whom all Joy and jolly Merriment
    Is also deaded, and in Dolour drent.

    Instead thereof, scoffing Scurrility
    And scorning Folly with Contempt is crept,
    Rolling in Rhimes of shameless Ribaudry,
    Without Regard or due Decorum kept;
    Each idle Wit at will presumes to make,
    And doth the Learned’s Task upon him take.

    But that same gentle Spirit, from whose Pen
    Large Streams of Honey and sweet Nectar flow,
    Scorning the Boldness of such base-born Men,
    Which dare their Follies forth so rashly throw;
    Doth rather choose to sit in idle Cell,
    Than so himself to Mockery to sell.

I know some people have been of opinion, that Shakespear is not meant by Willy in the first
stanza of these verses, because Spencer’s death happen’d twenty years before Shakespear’s.
But, besides that the character is not applicable to any man of that time but himself, it is
plain by the last stanza that Mr. Spencer does not mean that he was then really dead, but only
that he had withdrawn himself from the publick, or at least with-held his hand from writing,
out of a disgust he had taken at the then ill taste of the Town, and the mean condition of
the Stage. Mr. Dryden was always of opinion these verses were meant of Shakespear; and ’tis
highly probable they were so, since he was three and thirty years old at Spencer’s death; and
his reputation in Poetry must have been great enough before that time to have deserv’d what
is here said of him. His acquaintance with Ben Johnson began with a remarkable piece of humanity
and good nature; Mr. Johnson, who was at that time altogether unknown to the world, had offer’d
one of his Plays to the Players, in order to have it acted; and the persons into whose hands
it was put, after having turn’d it carelessly and superciliously over, were just upon returning
it to him with an ill-natur’d answer, that it would be of no service to their Company, when
Shakespear luckily cast his eye upon it, and found something so well in it as to engage him
first to read it through, and afterwards to recommend Mr. Johnson and his writings to the publick.
After this they were profess’d friends; tho’ I don’t know whether the other ever made him an
equal return of gentleness and sincerity. Ben was naturally proud and insolent, and in the
days of his reputation did so far take upon him the supremacy in wit, that he could not but
look with an evil eye upon any one that seem’d to stand in competition with him. And if at
times he has affected to commend him, it has always been with some reserve, insinuating his
uncorrectness, a careless manner of writing, and want of judgment; the praise of seldom altering
or blotting out what he writ, which was given him by the Players who were the first Publishers
of his Works after his death, was what Johnson could not bear; he thought it impossible, perhaps,
for another man to strike out the greatest thoughts in the finest expression, and to reach
those excellencies of Poetry with the ease of a first imagination, which himself with infinite
labour and study could but hardly attain to. Johnson was certainly a very good scholar, and
in that had the advantage of Shakespear; tho’ at the same time I believe it must be allow’d,
that what Nature gave the latter, was more than a ballance for what Books had given the former;
and the judgment of a great man upon this occasion was, I think, very just and proper. In a
conversation between Sir John Suckling, Sir William D’Avenant, Endymion Porter, Mr. Hales of
Eaton, and Ben Johnson; Sir John Suckling, who was a profess’d admirer of Shakespear, had undertaken
his defence against Ben Johnson with some warmth; Mr. Hales, who had sat still for some time,
hearing Ben frequently reproaching him with the want of learning, and ignorance of the Antients,
told him at last, That if Mr. Shakespear had not read the Antients, he had likewise not stollen
any thing from ’em (a fault the other made no conscience of); and that if he would produce
any one Topick finely treated by any one of them, he would undertake to shew something upon
the same subject at least as well written by Shakespear. Johnson did indeed take a large liberty,
even to the transcribing and translating of whole scenes together; and sometimes, with all
deference to so great a name as his, not altogether for the advantage of the authors of whom
he borrow’d. And if Augustus and Virgil were really what he has made ’em in a scene of his
Poetaster, they are as odd an Emperor and a Poet as ever met. Shakespear, on the other hand,
was beholding to no body farther than the foundation of the tale, the incidents were often
his own, and the writing intirely so. There is one Play of his, indeed, The Comedy of Errors,
in a great measure taken from the Menæchmi of Plautus. How that happen’d, I cannot easily divine,
since, as I hinted before, I do not take him to have been master of Latin enough to read it
in the original, and I know of no translation of Plautus so old as his time.

As I have not propos’d to my self to enter into a large and compleat criticism upon Shakespear’s
Works, so I suppose it will neither be expected that I should take notice of the severe remarks
that have been formerly made upon him by Mr. Rhymer. I must confess, I can’t very well see
what could be the reason of his animadverting with so much sharpness, upon the faults of a
man excellent on most occasions, and whom all the world ever was and will be inclin’d to have
an esteem and veneration for. If it was to shew his own knowledge in the Art of Poetry, besides
that there is a vanity in making that only his design, I question if there be not many imperfections
as well in those schemes and precepts he has given for the direction of others, as well as
in that sample of Tragedy which he has written to shew the excellency of his own Genius. If
he had a pique against the man, and wrote on purpose to ruin a reputation so well establish’d,
he has had the mortification to fail altogether in his attempt, and to see the world at least
as fond of Shakespear as of his Critique. But I won’t believe a gentleman, and a good-natur’d
man, capable of the last intention. Whatever may have been his meaning, finding fault is certainly
the easiest task of knowledge, and commonly those men of good judgment, who are likewise of
good and gentle dispositions, abandon this ungrateful province to the tyranny of pedants. If
one would enter into the beauties of Shakespear, there is a much larger, as well as a more
delightful field; but as I won’t prescribe to the tastes of other people, so I will only take
the liberty, with all due submission to the judgments of others, to observe some of those things
I have been pleas’d with in looking him over.

His Plays are properly to be distinguish’d only into Comedies and Tragedies. Those which are
called Histories, and even some of his Comedies, are really Tragedies, with a run or mixture
of Comedy amongst ’em. That way of Trage-comedy was the common mistake of that age, and is
indeed become so agreeable to the English taste, that tho’ the severer Critiques among us cannot
bear it, yet the generality of our audiences seem to be better pleas’d with it than with an
exact Tragedy. The Merry Wives of Windsor, The Comedy of Errors, and The Taming of the Shrew,
are all pure Comedy; the rest, however they are call’d, have something of both kinds. ’Tis
not very easy to determine which way of writing he was most excellent in. There is certainly
a great deal of entertainment in his comical humours; and tho’ they did not then strike at
all ranks of people, as the Satyr of the present age has taken the liberty to do, yet there
is a pleasing and a well-distinguish’d variety in those characters which he thought fit to
meddle with. Falstaff is allow’d by every body to be a master-piece; the Character is always
well-sustain’d, tho’ drawn out into the length of three Plays; and even the account of his
death, given by his old landlady Mrs. Quickly, in the first act of Henry V., tho’ it be extremely
natural, is yet as diverting as any part of his life. If there be any fault in the draught
he has made of this lewd old fellow, it is, that tho’ he has made him a thief, lying, cowardly,
vain-glorious, and in short every way vicious, yet he has given him so much wit as to make
him almost too agreeable; and I don’t know whether some people have not, in remembrance of
the diversion he had formerly afforded ’em, been sorry to see his friend Hal use him so scurvily,
when he comes to the crown in the end of the second part of Henry the Fourth. Amongst other
extravagances, in The Merry Wives of Windsor, he has made him a Deer-stealer, that he might
at the same time remember his Warwickshire prosecutor, under the name of Justice Shallow; he
has given him very near the same coat of arms which Dugdale, in his Antiquities of that county,
describes for a family there, and makes the Welsh parson descant very pleasantly upon ’em.
That whole play is admirable; the humours are various and well oppos’d; the main design, which
is to cure Ford of his unreasonable jealousie, is extremely well conducted. Falstaff’s Billet-Doux,
and Master Slender’s

    Ah! Sweet Ann Page!

are very good expressions of love in their way. In Twelfth-Night there is something singularly
ridiculous and pleasant in the fantastical steward Malvolio. The parasite and the vain-glorious
in Parolles, in All’s Well that ends Well, is as good as any thing of that kind in Plautus
or Terence. Petruchio, in The Taming of the Shrew, is an uncommon piece of humour. The conversation
of Benedick and Beatrice, in Much Ado about Nothing, and of Rosalind in As you like it, have
much wit and sprightliness all along. His clowns, without which character there was hardly
any play writ in that time, are all very entertaining: And, I believe, Thersites in Troilus
and Cressida, and Apemantus in Timon, will be allow’d to be master-pieces of ill nature and
satyrical snarling. To these I might add that incomparable character of Shylock the Jew in
The Merchant of Venice; but tho’ we have seen that play receiv’d and acted as a Comedy, and
the part of the Jew perform’d by an excellent Comedian, yet I cannot but think it was design’d
tragically by the Author. There appears in it such a deadly spirit of revenge, such a savage
fierceness and fellness, and such a bloody designation of cruelty and mischief, as cannot agree
either with the stile or characters of Comedy. The Play it self, take it all together, seems
to me to be one of the most finish’d of any of Shakespear’s. The tale indeed, in that part
relating to the caskets, and the extravagant and unusual kind of bond given by Antonio, is
a little too much remov’d from the rules of probability: But taking the fact for granted, we
must allow it to be very beautifully written. There is something in the friendship of Antonio
to Bassanio very great, generous, and tender. The whole fourth act, supposing, as I said, the
fact to be probable, is extremely fine. But there are two passages that deserve a particular
notice. The first is, what Portia says in praise of mercy, and the other on the power of musick.
The melancholy of Jaques, in As you like it, is as singular and odd as it is diverting. And
if what Horace says,

    Difficile est proprie communia dicere,

’twill be a hard task for any one to go beyond him in the description of the several degrees
and ages of man’s life, tho’ the thought be old, and common enough.

His Images are indeed ev’ry where so lively, that the thing he would represent stands full
before you, and you possess ev’ry part of it. I will venture to point out one more, which is,
I think, as strong and as uncommon as any thing I ever saw; ’tis an image of Patience.

What an Image is here given! and what a task would it have been for the greatest masters of
Greece and Rome to have express’d the passions design’d by this sketch of Statuary! The stile
of his Comedy is, in general, natural to the characters, and easie in it self; and the wit
most commonly sprightly and pleasing, except in those places where he runs into dogrel rhymes,
as in The Comedy of Errors, and a passage or two in some other plays. As for his jingling sometimes,
and playing upon words, it was the common vice of the age he liv’d in: And if we find it in
the Pulpit, made use of as an ornament to the Sermons of some of the gravest Divines of those
times; perhaps it may not be thought too light for the Stage.

But certainly the greatness of this Author’s genius do’s no where so much appear, as where
he gives his imagination an entire loose, and raises his fancy to a flight above mankind and
the limits of the visible world. Such are his attempts in The Tempest, Midsummer Nights Dream,
Macbeth, and Hamlet. Of these, The Tempest, however it comes to be plac’d the first by the
former publishers of his works, can never have been the first written by him: It seems to me
as perfect in its kind, as almost any thing we have of his. One may observe, that the Unities
are kept here, with an exactness uncommon to the liberties of his writing; tho’ that was what,
I suppose, he valu’d himself least upon, since his excellencies were all of another kind. I
am very sensible that he do’s, in this play, depart too much from that likeness to truth which
ought to be observ’d in these sort of writings; yet he do’s it so very finely, that one is
easily drawn in to have more faith for his sake, than reason does well allow of. His Magick
has something in it very solemn and very poetical: And that extravagant character of Caliban
is mighty well sustain’d, shews a wonderful invention in the Author, who could strike out such
a particular wild image, and is certainly one of the finest and most uncommon Grotesques that
was ever seen. The observation, which I have been inform’d(36) three very great men concurr’d
in making upon this part, was extremely just: That Shakespear had not only found out a new
Character in his Caliban, but had also devis’d and adapted a new manner of Language for that
Character. Among the particular beauties of this piece, I think one may be allow’d to point
out the tale of Prospero in the first Act; his speech to Ferdinand in the fourth, upon the
breaking up the masque of Juno and Ceres; and that in the fifth, when he dissolves his charms,
and resolves to break his magick rod. This Play has been alter’d by Sir William D’Avenant and
Mr. Dryden; and tho’ I won’t arraign the judgment of those two great men, yet I think I may
be allow’d to say, that there are some things left out by them, that might, and even ought
to have been kept in. Mr. Dryden was an admirer of our Author, and, indeed, he owed him a great
deal, as those who have read them both may very easily observe. And, I think, in justice to
’em both, I should not on this occasion omit what Mr. Dryden has said of him.

    Shakespear, who, taught by none, did first impart
    To Fletcher Wit, to lab’ring Johnson Art:
    He, monarch-like, gave those his subjects Law,
    And is that Nature which they paint and draw.
    Fletcher reach’d that which on his heights did grow,
    Whilst Johnson crept and gather’d all below:
    This did his Love, and this his Mirth digest,
    One imitates him most, the other best.
    If they have since out-writ all other men,
    ’Tis with the drops which fell from Shakespear’s pen.
    The(37) Storm which vanish’d on the neighb’ring shoar,
    Was taught by Shakespear’s Tempest first to roar.
    That innocence and beauty which did smile
    In Fletcher, grew on this Enchanted Isle.
    But Shakespear’s Magick could not copied be,
    Within that Circle none durst walk but he.
    I must confess ’twas bold, nor would you now
    That liberty to vulgar Wits allow,
    Which works by Magick supernatural things:
    But Shakespear’s Pow’r is Sacred as a King’s.

    Prologue to The Tempest, as it is alter’d by Mr. Dryden.

It is the same magick that raises the Fairies in Midsummer Night’s Dream, the Witches in Macbeth,
and the Ghost in Hamlet, with thoughts and language so proper to the parts they sustain, and
so peculiar to the talent of this Writer. But of the two last of these Plays I shall have occasion
to take notice, among the Tragedies of Mr. Shakespear. If one undertook to examine the greatest
part of these by those rules which are establish’d by Aristotle, and taken from the model of
the Grecian stage, it would be no very hard task to find a great many faults: But as Shakespear
liv’d under a kind of mere light of nature, and had never been made acquainted with the regularity
of those written precepts, so it would be hard to judge him by a law he knew nothing of. We
are to consider him as a man that liv’d in a state of almost universal licence and ignorance:
There was no establish’d judge, but every one took the liberty to write according to the dictates
of his own fancy. When one considers that there is not one play before him of a reputation
good enough to entitle it to an appearance on the present Stage, it cannot but be a matter
of great wonder that he should advance dramatick Poetry so far as he did. The Fable is what
is generally plac’d the first, among those that are reckon’d the constituent parts of a Tragick
or Heroick Poem; not, perhaps, as it is the most difficult or beautiful, but as it is the first
properly to be thought of in the contrivance and course of the whole; and with the Fable ought
to be consider’d the fit Disposition, Order, and Conduct of its several parts. As it is not
in this province of the Drama that the strength and mastery of Shakespear lay, so I shall not
undertake the tedious and ill-natur’d trouble to point out the several faults he was guilty
of in it. His Tales were seldom invented, but rather taken either from true History, or Novels
and Romances: And he commonly made use of ’em in that order, with those incidents, and that
extent of time in which he found ’em in the Authors from whence he borrow’d them. So The Winter’s
Tale, which is taken from an old book, call’d The Delectable History of Dorastus and Faunia,
contains the space of sixteen or seventeen years, and the Scene is sometimes laid in Bohemia,
and sometimes in Sicily, according to the original order of the Story. Almost all his historical
Plays comprehend a great length of time, and very different and distinct places: And in his
Antony and Cleopatra, the Scene travels over the greatest part of the Roman empire. But in
recompence for his carelessness in this point, when he comes to another part of the Drama,
The Manners of his Characters, in acting or speaking what is proper for them, and fit to be
shown by the Poet, he may be generally justify’d, and in very many places greatly commended.
For those Plays which he has taken from the English or Roman history, let any man compare ’em,
and he will find the character as exact in the Poet as the Historian. He seems indeed so far
from proposing to himself any one action for a Subject, that the Title very often tells you,
’tis The Life of King John, King Richard, &c. What can be more agreeable to the idea our historians
give of Henry the Sixth, than the picture Shakespear has drawn of him! His Manners are every
where exactly the same with the story; one finds him still describ’d with simplicity, passive
sanctity, want of courage, weakness of mind, and easie submission to the governance of an imperious
Wife, or prevailing Faction: Tho’ at the same time the Poet do’s justice to his good qualities,
and moves the pity of his audience for him, by showing him pious, disinterested, a contemner
of the things of this world, and wholly resign’d to the severest dispensations of God’s providence.
There is a short Scene in the second part of Henry VI., which I cannot but think admirable
in its kind. Cardinal Beaufort, who had murder’d the Duke of Gloucester, is shewn in the last
agonies on his death-bed, with the good King praying over him. There is so much terror in one,
so much tenderness and moving piety in the other, as must touch any one who is capable either
of fear or pity. In his Henry VIII. that Prince is drawn with that greatness of mind, and all
those good qualities which are attributed to him in any account of his reign. If his faults
are not shewn in an equal degree, and the shades in this picture do not bear a just proportion
to the lights, it is not that the Artist wanted either colours or skill in the disposition
of ’em; but the truth, I believe, might be, that he forbore doing it out of regard to Queen
Elizabeth, since it could have been no very great respect to the memory of his Mistress, to
have expos’d some certain parts of her father’s life upon the stage. He has dealt much more
freely with the Minister of that great King, and certainly nothing was ever more justly written,
than the character of Cardinal Wolsey. He has shewn him tyrannical, cruel, and insolent in
his prosperity; and yet, by a wonderful address, he makes his fall and ruin the subject of
general compassion. The whole man, with his vices and virtues, is finely and exactly describ’d
in the second Scene of the fourth Act. The distresses likewise of Queen Katherine, in this
Play, are very movingly touch’d; and tho’ the art of the Poet has skreen’d King Henry from
any gross imputation of injustice, yet one is inclin’d to wish, the Queen had met with a fortune
more worthy of her birth and virtue. Nor are the Manners, proper to the persons represented,
less justly observ’d in those characters taken from the Roman History; and of this, the fierceness
and impatience of Coriolanus, his courage and disdain of the common people, the virtue and
philosophical temper of Brutus, and the irregular greatness of mind in M. Antony, are beautiful
proofs. For the two last especially, you find ’em exactly as they are describ’d by Plutarch,
from whom certainly Shakespear copy’d ’em. He has indeed follow’d his original pretty close,
and taken in several little incidents that might have been spar’d in a Play. But, as I hinted
before, his design seems most commonly rather to describe those great men in the several fortunes
and accidents of their lives, than to take any single great action, and form his work simply
upon that. However, there are some of his pieces, where the Fable is founded upon one action
only. Such are more especially, Romeo and Juliet, Hamlet, and Othello. The design in Romeo
and Juliet is plainly the punishment of their two families, for the unreasonable feuds and
animosities that had been so long kept up between ’em, and occasion’d the effusion of so much
blood. In the management of this story, he has shewn something wonderfully tender and passionate
in the love-part, and very pitiful in the distress. Hamlet is founded on much the same Tale
with the Electra of Sophocles. In each of ’em a young Prince is engag’d to revenge the death
of his father, their mothers are equally guilty, are both concern’d in the murder of their
husbands, and are afterwards married to the murderers. There is in the first part of the Greek
Tragedy, something very moving in the grief of Electra; but as Mr. D’Acier has observ’d, there
is something very unnatural and shocking in the Manners he has given that Princess and Orestes
in the latter part. Orestes embrues his hands in the blood of his own mother; and that barbarous
action is perform’d, tho’ not immediately upon the stage, yet so near, that the audience hear
Clytemnestra crying out to Ægysthus for help, and to her son for mercy: While Electra, her
daughter, and a Princess, both of them characters that ought to have appear’d with more decency,
stands upon the stage and encourages her brother in the parricide. What horror does this not
raise! Clytemnestra was a wicked woman, and had deserv’d to die; nay, in the truth of the story,
she was kill’d by her own son; but to represent an action of this kind on the stage, is certainly
an offence against those rules of manners proper to the persons, that ought to be observ’d
there. On the contrary, let us only look a little on the conduct of Shakespear. Hamlet is represented
with the same piety towards his father, and resolution to revenge his death, as Orestes; he
has the same abhorrence for his mother’s guilt, which, to provoke him the more, is heighten’d
by incest: But ’tis with wonderful art and justness of judgment, that the Poet restrains him
from doing violence to his mother. To prevent any thing of that kind, he makes his father’s
Ghost forbid that part of his vengeance.

    But howsoever thou pursu’st this Act,
    Taint not thy mind; nor let thy soul contrive
    Against thy mother ought; leave her to Heav’n,
    And to those thorns that in her bosom lodge,
    To prick and sting her.

This is to distinguish rightly between Horror and Terror. The latter is a proper passion of
Tragedy, but the former ought always to be carefully avoided. And certainly no dramatick Writer
ever succeeded better in raising Terror in the minds of an audience than Shakespear has done.
The whole Tragedy of Macbeth, but more especially the scene where the King is murder’d, in
the second Act, as well as this Play, is a noble proof of that manly spirit with which he writ;
and both shew how powerful he was, in giving the strongest motions to our souls that they are
capable of. I cannot leave Hamlet without taking notice of the advantage with which we have
seen this Master-piece of Shakespear distinguish it self upon the stage, by Mr. Betterton’s
fine performance of that part: A man who, tho’ he had no other good qualities, as he has a
great many, must have made his way into the esteem of all men of letters, by this only excellency.
No man is better acquainted with Shakespear’s manner of expression, and indeed he has study’d
him so well, and is so much a master of him, that whatever part of his he performs, he does
it as if it had been written on purpose for him, and that the Author had exactly conceiv’d
it as he plays it. I must own a particular obligation to him, for the most considerable part
of the passages relating to this life, which I have here transmitted to the publick; his veneration
for the memory of Shakespear having engaged him to make a journey into Warwickshire, on purpose
to gather up what remains he could of a name for which he had so great a value. Since I had
at first resolv’d not to enter into any critical controversie, I won’t pretend to enquire into
the justness of Mr. Rhymer’s Remarks on Othello; he has certainly pointed out some faults very
judiciously; and indeed they are such as most people will agree, with him, to be faults: But
I wish he would likewise have observ’d some of the beauties too; as I think it became an exact
and equal Critique to do. It seems strange that he should allow nothing good in the whole:
If the Fable and Incidents are not to his taste, yet the Thoughts are almost every where very
noble, and the Diction manly and proper. These last, indeed, are parts of Shakespear’s praise,
which it would be very hard to dispute with him. His Sentiments and Images of things are great
and natural; and his Expression (tho’ perhaps in some instances a little irregular) just, and
rais’d in proportion to his subject and occasion. It would be even endless to mention the particular
instances that might be given of this kind: But his Book is in the possession of the publick,
and ’twill be hard to dip into any part of it, without finding what I have said of him made good.

The latter part of his life was spent, as all men of good sense will wish theirs may be, in
ease, retirement, and the conversation of his friends. He had the good fortune to gather an
estate equal to his occasion, and, in that, to his wish; and is said to have spent some years
before his death at his native Stratford. His pleasurable wit, and good nature, engag’d him
in the acquaintance, and entitled him to the friendship of the gentlemen of the neighbourhood.
Amongst them, it is a story almost still remember’d in that country, that he had a particular
intimacy with Mr. Combe, an old gentleman noted thereabouts for his wealth and usury: It happen’d,
that in a pleasant conversation amongst their common friends, Mr. Combe told Shakespear in
a laughing manner, that he fancy’d he intended to write his Epitaph, if he happen’d to out-live
him; and since he could not know what might be said of him when he was dead, he desir’d it
might be done immediately: Upon which Shakespear gave him these four verses.

    Ten in the hundred lies here ingrav’d,
    ’Tis a hundred to ten his soul is not sav’d:
    If any man ask, Who lies in this tomb?
    Oh! ho! quoth the devil, ’tis my John-a-Combe.

But the sharpness of the Satyr is said to have stung the man so severely, that he never forgave it.

He dy’d in the 53d year of his age, and was bury’d on the north side of the chancel, in the
great church at Stratford, where a monument, as engrav’d in the plate, is plac’d in the wall.
On his Grave-stone underneath is,

    Good friend, for Jesus sake, forbear
    To dig the dust inclosed here.
    Blest be the man that spares these stones,
    And curst be he that moves my bones.

He had three daughters, of which two liv’d to be marry’d; Judith, the elder, to one Mr. Thomas
Quiney, by whom she had three Sons, who all dy’d without children; and Susannah, who was his
favourite, to Dr. John Hall, a physician of good reputation in that country. She left one child
only, a daughter, who was marry’d first to Thomas Nash, Esq; and afterwards to Sir John Bernard
of Abington, but dy’d likewise without issue.

This is what I could learn of any note, either relating to himself or family: The character
of the man is best seen in his writings. But since Ben Johnson has made a sort of an essay
towards it in his Discoveries, tho’, as I have before hinted, he was not very cordial in his
friendship, I will venture to give it in his words.

He reply’d:

    Cæsar did never wrong, but with just cause.

and such like, which were ridiculous. But he redeem’d his vices with his virtues: There was
ever more in him to be prais’d than to be pardon’d.”

As for the passage which he mentions out of Shakespear, there is somewhat like it in Julius
Cæsar, but without the absurdity; nor did I ever meet with it in any edition that I have seen,
as quoted by Mr. Johnson. Besides his plays in this edition, there are two or three ascrib’d
to him by Mr. Langbain, which I have never seen, and know nothing of. He writ likewise, Venus
and Adonis, and Tarquin and Lucrece, in stanza’s, which have been printed in a late collection
of Poems. As to the character given of him by Ben Johnson, there is a good deal true in it:
But I believe it may be as well express’d by what Horace says of the first Romans, who wrote
Tragedy upon the Greek models (or indeed translated ’em), in his epistle to Augustus.

    —— Natura sublimis & Acer,
    Nam spirat Tragicum satis & feliciter Audet,
    Sed turpem putat in Chartis metuitque Lituram.

There is a Book of Poems, publish’d in 1640, under the name of Mr. William Shakespear, but
as I have but very lately seen it, without an opportunity of making any judgment upon it, I
won’t pretend to determine, whether it be his or no.

JOHN DENNIS: ON THE GENIUS AND WRITINGS OF SHAKESPEARE. 1711.

Letter I.

Sir, Feb. 1. 1710/11.

I here send you the Tragedy of Coriolanus, which I have alter’d from the Original of Shakespear,
and with it a short Account of the Genius and Writings of that Author, both which you desired
me to send to you the last time I had the good Fortune to see you. But I send them both upon
this condition, that you will with your usual Sincerity tell me your Sentiments both of the
Poem and of the Criticism.

Shakespear was one of the greatest Genius’s that the World e’er saw for the Tragick Stage.
Tho’ he lay under greater Disadvantages than any of his Successors, yet had he greater and
more genuine Beauties than the best and greatest of them. And what makes the brightest Glory
of his Character, those Beauties were entirely his own, and owing to the Force of his own Nature;
whereas his Faults were owing to his Education, and to the Age that he liv’d in. One may say
of him as they did of Homer, that he had none to imitate, and is himself inimitable. His Imaginations
were often as just, as they were bold and strong. He had a natural Discretion which never cou’d
have been taught him, and his Judgment was strong and penetrating. He seems to have wanted
nothing but Time and Leisure for Thought, to have found out those Rules of which he appears
so ignorant. His Characters are always drawn justly, exactly, graphically, except where he
fail’d by not knowing History or the Poetical Art. He has for the most part more fairly distinguish’d
them than any of his Successors have done, who have falsified them, or confounded them, by
making Love the predominant Quality in all. He had so fine a Talent for touching the Passions,
and they are so lively in him, and so truly in Nature, that they often touch us more without
their due Preparations, than those of other Tragick Poets, who have all the Beauty of Design
and all the Advantage of Incidents. His Master-Passion was Terror, which he has often mov’d
so powerfully and so wonderfully, that we may justly conclude, that if he had had the Advantage
of Art and Learning, he wou’d have surpass’d the very best and strongest of the Ancients. His
Paintings are often so beautiful and so lively, so graceful and so powerful, especially where
he uses them in order to move Terror, that there is nothing perhaps more accomplish’d in our
English Poetry. His Sentiments for the most part in his best Tragedies, are noble, generous,
easie, and natural, and adapted to the Persons who use them. His Expression is in many Places
good and pure after a hundred Years; simple tho’ elevated, graceful tho’ bold, and easie tho’
strong.

If Shakespear had these great Qualities by Nature, what would he not have been, if he had join’d
to so happy a Genius Learning and the Poetical Art? For want of the latter, our Author has
sometimes made gross Mistakes in the Characters which he has drawn from History, against the
Equality and Conveniency of Manners of his Dramatical Persons. Witness Menenius in the following
Tragedy, whom he has made an errant Buffoon, which is a great Absurdity. For he might as well
have imagin’d a grave majestick Jack-Pudding, as a Buffoon in a Roman Senator. Aufidius the
General of the Volscians is shewn a base and a profligate Villain. He has offended against
the Equality of the Manners even in his Hero himself. For Coriolanus who in the first part
of the Tragedy is shewn so open, so frank, so violent, and so magnanimous, is represented in
the latter part by Aufidius, which is contradicted by no one, a flattering, fawning, cringing,
insinuating Traytor.

For want of this Poetical Art, Shakespear has introduced things into his Tragedies, which are
against the Dignity of that noble Poem, as the Rabble in Julius Cæsar, and that in Coriolanus;
tho’ that in Coriolanus offends not only against the Dignity of Tragedy, but against the Truth
of History likewise, and the Customs of Ancient Rome, and the Majesty of the Roman People,
as we shall have occasion to shew anon.

For want of this Art, he has made his Incidents less moving, less surprizing, and less wonderful.
He has been so far from seeking those fine Occasions to move with which an Action furnish’d
according to Art would have furnish’d him, that he seems rather to have industriously avoided
them. He makes Coriolanus, upon his Sentence of Banishment, take his leave of his Wife and
his Mother out of sight of the Audience, and so has purposely as it were avoided a great occasion
to move.

If we are willing to allow that Shakespear, by sticking to the bare Events of History, has
mov’d more than any of his Successors, yet his just Admirers must confess, that if he had had
the Poetical Art, he would have mov’d ten times more. For ’tis impossible that by a bare Historical
Play he could move so much as he would have done by a Fable.

We find that a Romance entertains the generality of Mankind with more Satisfaction than History,
if they read only to be entertain’d; but if they read History thro’ Pride or Ambition, they
bring their Passions along with them, and that alters the case. Nothing is more plain than
that even in an Historical Relation some Parts of it, and some Events, please more than others.
And therefore a Man of Judgment, who sees why they do so, may in forming a Fable, and disposing
an Action, please more than an Historian can do. For the just Fiction of a Fable moves us more
than an Historical Relation can do, for the two following Reasons: First, by reason of the
Communication and mutual Dependence of its Parts. For if Passion springs from Motion, then
the Obstruction of that Motion or a counter Motion must obstruct and check the Passion: And
therefore an Historian and a Writer of Historical Plays, passing from Events of one nature
to Events of another nature without a due Preparation, must of necessity stifle and confound
one Passion by another. The second Reason why the Fiction of a Fable pleases us more than an
Historical Relation can do, is, because in an Historical Relation we seldom are acquainted
with the true Causes of Events, whereas in a feign’d Action which is duly constituted, that
is, which has a just beginning, those Causes always appear. For ’tis observable, that, both
in a Poetical Fiction and an Historical Relation, those Events are the most entertaining, the
most surprizing, and the most wonderful, in which Providence most plainly appears. And ’tis
for this Reason that the Author of a just Fable must please more than the Writer of an Historical
Relation. The Good must never fail to prosper, and the Bad must be always punish’d: Otherwise
the Incidents, and particularly the Catastrophe which is the grand Incident, are liable to
be imputed rather to Chance, than to Almighty Conduct and to Sovereign Justice. The want of
this impartial Distribution of Justice makes the Coriolanus of Shakespear to be without Moral.
’Tis true indeed Coriolanus is kill’d by those Foreign Enemies with whom he had openly sided
against his Country, which seems to be an Event worthy of Providence, and would look as if
it were contriv’d by infinite Wisdom, and executed by supreme Justice, to make Coriolanus a
dreadful Example to all who lead on Foreign Enemies to the Invasion of their native Country;
if there were not something in the Fate of the other Characters, which gives occasion to doubt
of it, and which suggests to the Sceptical Reader that this might happen by accident. For Aufidius
the principal Murderer of Coriolanus, who in cold Blood gets him assassinated by Ruffians,
instead of leaving him to the Law of the Country, and the Justice of the Volscian Senate, and
who commits so black a Crime, not by any erroneous Zeal, or a mistaken publick Spirit, but
thro’ Jealousy, Envy, and inveterate Malice; this Assassinator not only survives, and survives
unpunish’d, but seems to be rewarded for so detestable an Action, by engrossing all those Honours
to himself which Coriolanus before had shar’d with him. But not only Aufidius, but the Roman
Tribunes, Sicinius and Brutus, appear to me to cry aloud for Poetick Vengeance. For they are
guilty of two Faults, neither of which ought to go unpunish’d: The first in procuring the Banishment
of Coriolanus. If they were really jealous that Coriolanus had a Design on their Liberties,
when he stood for the Consulship, it was but just that they should give him a Repulse; but
to get the Champion and Defender of their Country banish’d upon a pretended Jealousy was a
great deal too much, and could proceed from nothing but that Hatred and Malice which they had
conceiv’d against him, for opposing their Institution. Their second Fault lay in procuring
this Sentence by indirect Methods, by exasperating and inflaming the People by Artifices and
Insinuations, by taking a base Advantage of the Open-heartedness and Violence of Coriolanus,
and by oppressing him with a Sophistical Argument, that he aim’d at Sovereignty, because he
had not delivered into the Publick Treasury the Spoils which he had taken from the Antiates.
As if a Design of Sovereignty could be reasonably concluded from any one Act; or any one could
think of bringing to pass such a Design, by eternally favouring the Patricians, and disobliging
the Populace. For we need make no doubt but that it was among the young Patricians that Coriolanus
distributed the Spoils which were taken from the Antiates; whereas nothing but caressing the
Populace could enslave the Roman People, as Cæsar afterwards very well saw and experienc’d.
So that this Injustice of the Tribunes was the original Cause of the Calamity which afterwards
befel their Country, by the Invasion of the Volscians, under the Conduct of Coriolanus. And
yet these Tribunes at the end of the Play, like Aufidius, remain unpunish’d. But indeed Shakespear
has been wanting in the exact Distribution of Poetical Justice not only in his Coriolanus,
but in most of his best Tragedies, in which the Guilty and the Innocent perish promiscuously;
as Duncan and Banquo in Mackbeth, as likewise Lady Macduffe and her Children; Desdemona in
Othello; Cordelia, Kent, and King Lear, in the Tragedy that bears his Name; Brutus and Porcia
in Julius Cæsar; and young Hamlet in the Tragedy of Hamlet. For tho’ it may be said in Defence
of the last, that Hamlet had a Design to kill his Uncle who then reign’d; yet this is justify’d
by no less than a Call from Heaven, and raising up one from the Dead to urge him to it. The
Good and the Bad then perishing promiscuously in the best of Shakespear’s Tragedies, there
can be either none or very weak Instruction in them: For such promiscuous Events call the Government
of Providence into Question, and by Scepticks and Libertines are resolv’d into Chance. I humbly
conceive therefore that this want of Dramatical Justice in the Tragedy of Coriolanus gave occasion
for a just Alteration, and that I was oblig’d to sacrifice to that Justice Aufidius and the
Tribunes, as well as Coriolanus.

Thus have we endeavour’d to shew that, for want of the Poetical Art, Shakespear lay under very
great Disadvantages. At the same time we must own to his Honour, that he has often perform’d
Wonders without it, in spight of the Judgment of so great a Man as Horace.

But from this very Judgment of Horace we may justly conclude that Shakespear would have wonderfully
surpass’d himself, if Art had been join’d to Nature. There never was a greater Genius in the
World than Virgil: He was one who seems to have been born for this glorious End, that the Roman
Muse might exert in him the utmost Force of her Poetry: And his admirable and divine Beauties
are manifestly owing to the happy Confederacy of Art and Nature. It was Art that contriv’d
that incomparable Design of the Æneis, and it was Nature that executed it. Could the greatest
Genius that ever was infus’d into Earthly Mold by Heaven, if it had been unguided and unassisted
by Art, have taught him to make that noble and wonderful Use of the Pythagorean Transmigration,
which he makes in the Sixth Book of his Poem? Had Virgil been a circular Poet, and closely
adher’d to History, how could the Romans have been transported with that inimitable Episode
of Dido, which brought a-fresh into their Minds the Carthaginian War, and the dreadful Hannibal?
When ’tis evident that that admirable Episode is so little owing to a faithful observance of
History, and the exact order of Time, that ’tis deriv’d from a very bold but judicious Violation
of these; it being undeniable that Dido liv’d almost 300 Years after Æneas. Yet is it that
charming Episode that makes the chief Beauties of a third Part of the Poem. For the Destruction
of Troy it self, which is so divinely related, is still more admirable by the Effect it produces,
which is the Passion of Dido.

I should now proceed to shew under what Disadvantages Shakespear lay for want of being conversant
with the Ancients. But I have already writ a long Letter, and am desirous to know how you relish
what has been already said before I go any farther: For I am unwilling to take more Pains before
I am sure of giving you some Pleasure. I am,

Sir, Your most humble, faithful Servant.

Letter II.

Sir, Feb. 6. 1710/11.

Upon the Encouragement I have receiv’d from you, I shall proceed to shew under what Disadvantages
Shakespear lay for want of being conversant with the Ancients. But because I have lately been
in some Conversation, where they would not allow but that he was acquainted with the Ancients,
I shall endeavour to make it appear that he was not; and the shewing that in the Method in
which I pretend to convince the Reader of it, will sufficiently prove what Inconveniencies
he lay under, and what Errors he committed for want of being conversant with them. But here
we must distinguish between the several kinds of Acquaintance: A Man may be said to be acquainted
with another who never was but twice in his Company; but that is at the best a superficial
Acquaintance, from which neither very great Pleasure nor Profit can be deriv’d. Our Business
is here to shew that Shakespear had no familiar Acquaintance with the Græcian and Roman Authors.
For if he was familiarly conversant with them, how comes it to pass that he wants Art? Is it
that he studied to know them in other things, and neglected that only in them, which chiefly
tends to the Advancement of the Art of the Stage? Or is it that he wanted Discernment to see
the Justness, and the Greatness, and the Harmony of their Designs, and the Reasonableness of
those Rules upon which those Designs are founded? Or how come his Successors to have that Discernment
which he wanted, when they fall so much below him in other things? How comes he to have been
guilty of the grossest Faults in Chronology, and how come we to find out those Faults? In his
Tragedy of Troylus and Cressida, he introduces Hector speaking of Aristotle, who was born a
thousand Years after the Death of Hector. In the same Play mention is made of Milo, which is
another very great Fault in Chronology. Alexander is mention’d in Coriolanus, tho’ that Conqueror
of the Orient liv’d about two hundred Years after him. In this last Tragedy he has mistaken
the very Names of his Dramatick Persons, if we give Credit to Livy. For the Mother of Coriolanus
in the Roman Historian is Vetturia, and the Wife is Volumnia. Whereas in Shakespear the Wife
is Virgilia, and the Mother Volumnia. And the Volscian General in Shakespear is Tullus Aufidius,
and Tullus Attius in Livy. How comes it that he takes Plutarch’s Word, who was by Birth a Græcian,
for the Affairs of Rome, rather than that of the Roman Historian, if so be that he had read
the latter? Or what Reason can be given for his not reading him, when he wrote upon a Roman
Story, but that in Shakespear’s time there was a Translation of Plutarch, and there was none
of Livy? If Shakespear was familiarly conversant with the Roman Authors, how came he to introduce
a Rabble into Coriolanus, in which he offended not only against the Dignity of Tragedy, but
the Truth of Fact, the Authority of all the Roman Writers, the Customs of Ancient Rome, and
the Majesty of the Roman People? By introducing a Rabble into Julius Cæsar, he only offended
against the Dignity of Tragedy. For that part of the People who ran about the Streets upon
great Festivals, or publick Calamities, or publick Rejoicings, or Revolutions in Government,
are certainly the Scum of the Populace. But the Persons who in the Time of Coriolanus rose
in Vindication of their just Rights, and extorted from the Patricians the Institution of the
Tribunes of the People, and the Persons by whom afterwards Coriolanus was tried, were the whole
Body of the Roman People to the Reserve of the Patricians, which Body included the Roman Knights,
and the wealthy substantial Citizens, who were as different from the Rabble as the Patricians
themselves, as qualify’d as the latter to form a right Judgment of Things, and to contemn the
vain Opinions of the Rabble. So at least Horace esteems them, who very well knew his Countrymen.

    Offenduntur enim, quibus est equus, aut pater, aut res,
    Nec, siquid fricti ciceris probat aut nucis emptor,
    Æquis accipiunt animis donantve Corona.

Where we see the Knights and the substantial Citizens are rank’d in an equal Degree of Capacity
with the Roman Senators, and are equally distinguish’d from the Rabble.

If Shakespear was so conversant with the Ancients, how comes he to have introduc’d some Characters
into his Plays so unlike what they are to be found in History? In the Character of Menenius
in the following Tragedy, he has doubly offended against that Historical Resemblance. For first
whereas Menenius was an eloquent Person, Shakespear has made him a downright Buffoon. And how
is it possible for any Man to conceive a Ciceronian Jack-pudding? Never was any Buffoon eloquent,
or wise, or witty, or virtuous. All the good and ill Qualities of a Buffoon are summ’d up in
one Word, and that is a Buffoon. And secondly, whereas Shakespear has made him a Hater and
Contemner and Villifier of the People, we are assur’d by the Roman Historian that Menenius
was extremely popular. He was so very far from opposing the Institution of the Tribunes, as
he is represented in Shakespear, that he was chiefly instrumental in it. After the People had
deserted the City, and sat down upon the sacred Mountain, he was the chief of the Delegates
whom the Senate deputed to them, as being look’d upon to be the Person who would be most agreeable
to them. In short, this very Menenius both liv’d and dy’d so very much their Favourite, that
dying poor he had pompous Funerals at the Expence of the Roman People.

Had Shakespear read either Sallust or Cicero, how could he have made so very little of the
first and greatest of Men, as that Cæsar should be but a Fourth-rate Actor in his own Tragedy?
How could it have been that, seeing Cæsar, we should ask for Cæsar? That we should ask, where
is his unequall’d Greatness of Mind, his unbounded Thirst of Glory, and that victorious Eloquence,
with which he triumph’d over the Souls of both Friends and Enemies, and with which he rivall’d
Cicero in Genius as he did Pompey in Power? How fair an Occasion was there to open the Character
of Cæsar in the first Scene between Brutus and Cassius? For when Cassius tells Brutus that
Cæsar was but a Man like them, and had the same natural Imperfections which they had, how natural
had it been for Brutus to reply, that Cæsar indeed had their Imperfections of Nature, but neither
he nor Cassius had by any means the great Qualities of Cæsar: neither his Military Virtue,
nor Science, nor his matchless Renown, nor his unparallell’d Victories, his unwearied Bounty
to his Friends, nor his Godlike Clemency to his Foes, his Beneficence, his Munificence, his
Easiness of Access to the meanest Roman, his indefatigable Labours, his incredible Celerity,
the Plausibleness if not Justness of his Ambition, that knowing himself to be the greatest
of Men, he only sought occasion to make the World confess him such. In short, if Brutus, after
enumerating all the wonderful Qualities of Cæsar, had resolv’d in spight of them all to sacrifice
him to publick Liberty, how had such a Proceeding heighten’d the Virtue and the Character of
Brutus? But then indeed it would have been requisite that Cæsar upon his Appearance should
have made all this good. And as we know no Principle of human Action but human Sentiment only,
Cæsar, who did greater Things, and had greater Designs than the rest of the Romans, ought certainly
to have outshin’d by many Degrees all the other Characters of his Tragedy. Cæsar ought particularly
to have justified his Actions, and to have heighten’d his Character, by shewing that what he
had done, he had done by Necessity; that the Romans had lost their Agrarian, lost their Rotation
of Magistracy, and that consequently nothing but an empty Shadow of publick Liberty remain’d;
that the Gracchi had made the last noble but unsuccessful Efforts for the restoring the Commonwealth,
that they had fail’d for want of arbitrary irresistible Power, the Restoration of the Agrarian
requiring too vast a Retrospect to be done without it; that the Government, when Cæsar came
to publick Affairs, was got into the Hands of a few, and that those few were factious, and
were contending among themselves, and, if you will pardon so mean an Expression, scrambling
as it were for Power; that Cæsar was reduc’d to the Necessity of ruling, or himself obeying
a Master; and that apprehending that another would exercise the supreme Command without that
Clemency and Moderation which he did, he had rather chosen to rule than to obey. So that Cæsar
was faulty not so much in seizing upon the Sovereignty, which was become in a manner necessary,
as in not re-establishing the Commonwealth, by restoring the Agrarian and the Rotation of Magistracies,
after he had got absolute and uncontroulable Power. And if Cæsar had seiz’d upon the Sovereignty
only with a View of re-establishing Liberty, he had surpass’d all Mortals in Godlike Goodness
as much as he did in the rest of his astonishing Qualities. I must confess, I do not remember
that we have any Authority from the Roman Historians which may induce us to believe that Cæsar
had any such Design. Nor if he had had any such View, could he, who was the most secret, the
most prudent, and the most discerning of Men, have discover’d it before his Parthian Expedition
was over, for fear of utterly disobliging his Veterans. And Cæsar believ’d that Expedition
necessary for the Honour and Interest of the State, and for his own Glory.

But of this we may be sure, that two of the most discerning of all the Romans, and who had
the deepest Insight into the Soul of Cæsar, Sallust and Cicero, were not without Hopes that
Cæsar would really re-establish Liberty, or else they would not have attack’d him upon it;
the one in his Oration for Marcus Marcellus, the other in the Second Part of that little Treatise
De Republica ordinanda, which is address’d to Cæsar. Hæc igitur tibi reliqua pars, says Cicero,
Hic restat Actus, in hoc elaborandum est, ut Rempublicam constituas, eaque tu in primis composita,
summa Tranquillitate & otio perfruare. Cicero therefore was not without Hope that Cæsar would
re-establish the Commonwealth; and any one who attentively peruses that Oration of Cicero,
will find that that Hope was reasonably grounded upon his knowledge of the great Qualities
of Cæsar, his Clemency, his Beneficence, his admirable Discernment; and that avoidless Ruine
in which the whole Empire would be soon involv’d, if Cæsar did not effect this. Sallust urges
it still more home to him and with greater vehemence; he has recourse to every Motive that
may be thought to be powerful over so great a Soul. He exhorts him by the Memory of his matchless
Conquests, not to suffer the invincible Empire of the Roman People to be devour’d by Time,
or to be torn in pieces by Discord; one of which would soon and infallibly happen, if Liberty
was not restor’d.

He introduces his Country and his Progenitors urging him in a noble Prosopopeia, by all the
mighty Benefits which they had conferr’d upon him, with so little Pains of his own, not to
deny them that just and easy Request of the Restoration of Liberty. He adjures him by those
Furies which will eternally haunt his Soul upon his impious Refusal: He implores him by the
foresight of those dismal Calamities, that horrible Slaughter, those endless Wars, and that
unbounded Devastation, which will certainly fall upon Mankind, if the Restoration of Liberty
is prevented by his Death, or his incurable Sickness: And lastly, he entreats him by his Thirst
of immortal Glory, that Glory in which he now has Rivals, if he has not Equals; but which,
if he re-establishes Liberty, will be acknowledg’d by consenting Nations to have neither Equal
nor Second.

I am apt to believe that if Shakespear had been acquainted with all this, we had had from him
quite another Character of Cæsar than that which we now find in him. He might then have given
us a Scene something like that which Corneille has so happily us’d in his Cinna; something
like that which really happen’d between Augustus, Mecænas, and Agrippa. He might then have
introduc’d Cæsar consulting Cicero on the one side, and on the other Anthony, whether he should
retain that absolute Sovereignty which he had acquir’d by his Victory, or whether he should
re-establish and immortalize Liberty. That would have been a Scene which might have employ’d
the finest Art and the utmost force of a Writer. That had been a Scene in which all the great
Qualities of Cæsar might have been display’d. I will not pretend to determine here how that
Scene might have been turn’d; and what I have already said on this Subject, has been spoke
with the utmost Caution and Diffidence. But this I will venture to say, that if that Scene
had been manag’d so, as, by the powerful Motives employ’d in it, to have shaken the Soul of
Cæsar, and to have left room for the least Hope, for the least Doubt, that Cæsar would have
re-establish’d Liberty, after his Parthian Expedition; and if this Conversation had been kept
secret till the Death of Cæsar, and then had been discover’d by Anthony; then had Cæsar fall’n,
so belov’d and lamented by the Roman People, so pitied and so bewail’d even by the Conspirators
themselves, as never Man fell. Then there would have been a Catastrophe the most dreadful and
the most deplorable that ever was beheld upon the Tragick Stage. Then had we seen the noblest
of the Conspirators cursing their temerarious Act, and the most apprehensive of them in dreadful
expectation of those horrible Calamities which fell upon the Romans after the Death of Cæsar.
But, Sir, when I write this to you, I write it with the utmost Deference to the extraordinary
Judgment of that great Man who some Years ago, I hear, alter’d the Julius Cæsar. And I make
no doubt but that his fine Discernment and the rest of his great Qualities have amply supply’d
the Defects which are found in the Character of Shakespear’s Cæsar.

I should here answer an Argument, by which some People pretend to prove, and especially those
with whom I lately convers’d, that Shakespear was conversant with the Ancients. But besides
that the Post is about to be gone, I am heartily tir’d with what I have already writ, and so
doubtless are you; I shall therefore defer the rest to the next opportunity, and remain

Your, &c.

Letter III.

Sir, Feb. 8.

I come now to the main Argument, which some People urge to prove that Shakespear was conversant
with the Ancients. For there is, say they, among Shakespear’s Plays, one call’d The Comedy
of Errors, which is undeniably an Imitation of the Menechmi of Plautus. Now Shakespear, say
they, being conversant with Plautus, it undeniably follows that he was acquainted with the
Ancients; because no Roman Author could be hard to him who had conquer’d Plautus. To which
I answer, that the Errors which we have mention’d above are to be accounted for no other way
but by the want of knowing the Ancients, or by downright want of Capacity. But nothing can
be more absurd or more unjust than to impute it to want of Capacity. For the very Sentiments
of Shakespear alone are sufficient to shew that he had a great Understanding: And therefore
we must account some other way for his Imitation of the Menechmi. I remember to have seen,
among the Translations of Ovid’s Epistles printed by Mr. Tonson, an Imitation of that from
Œnone to Paris, which Mr. Dryden tells us in his Preface to those Epistles was imitated by
one of the Fair Sex who understood no Latin, but that she had done enough to make those blush
who understood it the best. There are at this day several Translators, who, as Hudibrass has it,

    Translate from Languages of which
    They understand no part of Speech.

I will not affirm that of Shakespear; I believe he was able to do what Pedants call construe,
but that he was able to read Plautus without Pain and Difficulty I can never believe. Now I
appeal to you, Sir, what time he had between his Writing and his Acting, to read any thing
that could not be read with Ease and Pleasure. We see that our Adversaries themselves acknowledge,
that if Shakespear was able to read Plautus with Ease, nothing in Latinity could be hard to
him. How comes it to pass then, that he has given us no Proofs of his familiar Acquaintance
with the Ancients, but this Imitation of the Menechmi, and a Version of two Epistles of Ovid?
How comes it that he had never read Horace, of a superiour Merit to either, and particularly
his Epistle to the Piso’s, which so much concern’d his Art? Or if he had read that Epistle,
how comes it that in his Troylus and Cressida [we must observe by the way, that when Shakespear
wrote that Play, Ben Johnson had not as yet translated that Epistle] he runs counter to the
Instructions which Horace has given for the forming the Character of Achilles?

    Scriptor: Honoratum si forte reponis Achillem,
    Impiger, Iracundus, Inexorabilis, Acer,
    Jura neget sibi nata.

Where is the Impiger, the Iracundus, or the Acer, in the Character of Shakespear’s Achilles?
who is nothing but a drolling, lazy, conceited, overlooking Coxcomb; so far from being the
honoured Achilles, the Epithet that Homer and Horace after him give him, that he is deservedly
the Scorn and the Jest of the rest of the Characters, even to that Buffoon Thersites.

Tho’ Shakespear succeeded very well in Comedy, yet his principal Talent and his chief Delight
was Tragedy. If then Shakespear was qualify’d to read Plautus with Ease, he could read with
a great deal more Ease the Translations of Sophocles and Euripides. And tho’ by these Translations
he would not have been able to have seen the charming colouring of those great Masters, yet
would he have seen all the Harmony and the Beauty of their great and their just Designs. He
would have seen enough to have stirr’d up a noble Emulation in so exalted a Soul as his. How
comes it then that we hear nothing from him of the Œdipus, the Electra, the Antigone of Sophocles,
of the Iphigenia’s, the Orestes, the Medea, the Hecuba of Euripides? How comes it that we see
nothing in the Conduct of his Pieces, that shews us that he had the least Acquaintance with
any of these great Masterpieces? Did Shakespear appear to be so nearly touch’d with the Affliction
of Hecuba for the Death of Priam, which was but daub’d and bungled by one of his Countrymen,
that he could not forbear introducing it as it were by Violence into his own Hamlet, and would
he make no Imitation, no Commendation, not the least Mention of the unparallell’d and inimitable
Grief of the Hecuba of Euripides? How comes it that we find no Imitation of any ancient Play
in Him but the Menechmi of Plautus? How came he to chuse a Comick preferably to the Tragick
Poets? Or how comes he to chuse Plautus preferably to Terence, who is so much more just, more
graceful, more regular, and more natural? Or how comes he to chuse the Menechmi of Plautus,
which is by no means his Master-piece, before all his other Comedies? I vehemently suspect
that this Imitation of the Menechmi was either from a printed Translation of that Comedy which
is lost, or some Version in Manuscript brought him by a Friend, or sent him perhaps by a Stranger,
or from the original Play it self recommended to him, and read to him by some learned Friend.
In short, I had rather account for this by what is not absurd than by what is, or by a less
Absurdity than by a greater. For nothing can be more wrong than to conclude from this that
Shakespear was conversant with the Ancients; which contradicts the Testimony of his Contemporary
and his familiar Acquaintance Ben Johnson, and of his Successor Milton;

    Lo Shakespear, Fancy’s sweetest Child,
    Warbles his native Wood-notes wild;

and of Mr. Dryden after them both; and which destroys the most glorious Part of Shakespear’s
Merit immediately. For how can he be esteem’d equal by Nature or superior to the Ancients,
when he falls so far short of them in Art, tho’ he had the Advantage of knowing all that they
did before him? Nay it debases him below those of common Capacity, by reason of the Errors
which we mention’d above. Therefore he who allows that Shakespear had Learning and a familiar
Acquaintance with the Ancients, ought to be look’d upon as a Detractor from his extraordinary
Merit, and from the Glory of Great Britain. For whether is it more honourable for this Island
to have produc’d a Man who, without having any Acquaintance with the Ancients, or any but a
slender and a superficial one, appears to be their Equal or their Superiour by the Force of
Genius and Nature, or to have bred one who, knowing the Ancients, falls infinitely short of
them in Art, and consequently in Nature it self? Great Britain has but little Reason to boast
of its Natives Education, since the same that they had here, they might have had in another
place. But it may justly claim a very great share in their Nature and Genius, since these depend
in a great measure on the Climate; and therefore Horace, in the Instruction which he gives
for the forming the Characters, advises the noble Romans for whose Instruction he chiefly writes
to consider whether the Dramatick Person whom they introduce is

“ Colchus an Assyrius, Thebis nutritus an Argis. ”

Thus, Sir, I have endeavour’d to shew under what great Disadvantages Shakespear lay, for want
of the Poetical Art, and for want of being conversant with the Ancients.

But besides this, he lay under other very great Inconveniencies. For he was neither Master
of Time enough to consider, correct, and polish what he wrote, to alter it, to add to it, and
to retrench from it, nor had he Friends to consult upon whose Capacity and Integrity he could
depend. And tho’ a Person of very good Judgment may succeed very well without consulting his
Friends, if he takes time enough to correct what he writes; yet even the greatest Man that
Nature and Art can conspire to accomplish, can never attain to Perfection, without either employing
a great deal of time, or taking the Advice of judicious Friends. Nay, ’tis the Opinion of Horace
that he ought to do both.

                        Siquid tamen olim
    Scripseris, in Metii descendat Judicis aures,
    Et Patris, & nostras; nonumque prematur in Annum.

Now we know very well that Shakespear was an Actor, at a time when there were seven or eight
Companies of Players in the Town together, who each of them did their utmost Endeavours to
get the Audiences from the rest, and consequently that our Author was perpetually call’d upon,
by those who had the Direction and Management of the Company to which he belong’d, for new
Pieces which might be able to support them, and give them some Advantage over the rest. And
’tis easie to judge what Time he was Master of, between his laborious Employment of Acting
and his continual Hurry of Writing. As for Friends, they whom in all likelihood Shakespear
consulted most were two or three of his Fellow-Actors, because they had the Care of publishing
his Works committed to them. Now they, as we are told by Ben Johnson in his Discoveries, were
extremely pleas’d with their Friend for scarce ever making a Blot; and were very angry with
Ben for saying he wish’d that he had made a thousand. The Misfortune of it is that Horace was
perfectly of Ben’s, mind.

                                  ——Vos, O
    Pompilius sanguis, carmen reprehendite, quod non
    Multa dies & multa litura coercuit, atque
    Præsectum decies non castigavit ad unguem.

And so was my Lord Roscommon.

    Poets lose half the Praise they should have got,
    Could it be known what they discreetly blot.

These Friends then of Shakespear were not qualify’d to advise him. As for Ben Johnson, besides
that Shakespear began to know him late, and that Ben was not the most communicative Person
in the World of the Secrets of his Art, he seems to me to have had no right Notion of Tragedy.
Nay, so far from it, that he who was indeed a very great Man, and who has writ Comedies, by
which he has born away the Prize of Comedy both from Ancients and Moderns, and been an Honour
to Great Britain; and who has done this without any Rules to guide him, except what his own
incomparable Talent dictated to him; This extraordinary Man has err’d so grossly in Tragedy,
of which there were not only stated Rules, but Rules which he himself had often read, and had
even translated, that he has chosen two Subjects, which, according to those very Rules, were
utterly incapable of exciting either Compassion or Terror for the principal Characters, which
yet are the chief Passions that a Tragick Poet ought to endeavour to excite. So that Shakespear
having neither had Time to correct, nor Friends to consult, must necessarily have frequently
left such faults in his Writings, for the Correction of which either a great deal of Time or
a judicious and a well-natur’d Friend is indispensably necessary.

    Vir bonus & prudens versus reprehendet inertes,
    Culpabit duros, incomptis allinet atrum
    Transverso calamo signum, ambitiosa recidet
    Ornamenta, parum claris lucem dare coget,
    Arguet ambigue dictum, mutanda notabit.

There is more than one Example of every kind of these Faults in the Tragedies of Shakespear,
and even in the Coriolanus. There are Lines that are utterly void of that celestial Fire of
which Shakespear is sometimes Master in so great a Degree. And consequently there are Lines
that are stiff and forc’d, and harsh and unmusical, tho’ Shakespear had naturally an admirable
Ear for the Numbers. But no Man ever was very musical who did not write with Fire, and no Man
can always write with Fire, unless he is so far Master of his Time, as to expect those Hours
when his Spirits are warm and volatile. Shakespear must therefore sometimes have Lines which
are neither strong nor graceful: For who ever had Force or Grace that had not Spirit? There
are in his Coriolanus, among a great many natural and admirable Beauties, three or four of
those Ornaments which Horace would term ambitious; and which we in English are apt to call
Fustian or Bombast. There are Lines in some Places which are very obscure, and whole Scenes
which ought to be alter’d.

I have, Sir, employ’d some Time and Pains, and that little Judgment which I have acquir’d in
these Matters by a long and a faithful reading both of Ancients and Moderns, in adding, retrenching,
and altering several Things in the Coriolanus of Shakespear, but with what Success I must leave
to be determin’d by you. I know very well that you will be surpriz’d to find, that after all
that I have said in the former Part of this Letter against Shakespear’s introducing the Rabble
into Coriolanus, I have not only retain’d in the second Act of the following Tragedy the Rabble
which is in the Original, but deviated more from the Roman Customs than Shakespear had done
before me. I desire you to look upon it as a voluntary Fault and a Trespass against Conviction:
’Tis one of those Things which are ad Populum Phaleræ, and by no means inserted to please such
Men as you.

Thus, Sir, have I laid before you a short but impartial Account of the Beauties and Defects
of Shakespear, with an Intention to make these Letters publick if they are approv’d by you;
to teach some People to distinguish between his Beauties and his Defects, that while they imitate
the one, they may with Caution avoid the other [there being nothing of more dangerous Contagion
to Writers, and especially to young ones, than the Faults of great Masters], and while with
Milton they applaud the great Qualities which Shakespear had by Nature, they may follow his
wise Example, and form themselves as he assures us that he himself did, upon the Rules and
Writings of the Ancients.

Sir, if so candid and able a Judge as your self shall happen to approve of this Essay in the
main, and to excuse and correct my Errors, that Indulgence and that Correction will not only
encourage me to make these Letters publick, but will enable me to bear the Reproach of those
who would fix a Brand even upon the justest Criticism, as the Effect of Envy and Ill-nature;
as if there could possibly be any Ill-nature in the doing Justice, or in the endeavouring to
advance a very noble and a very useful Art, and consequently to prove beneficent to Mankind.
As for those who may accuse me of the want of a due Veneration for the Merit of an Author of
so establish’d a Reputation as Shakespear, I shall beg leave to tell them, that they chuse
the wrongest time that they could possibly take for such an Accusation as that. For I appeal
to you, Sir, who shews most Veneration for the Memory of Shakespear, he who loves and admires
his Charms and makes them one of his chief Delights, who sees him and reads him over and over
and still remains unsatiated, and who mentions his Faults for no other Reason but to make his
Excellency the more conspicuous, or he who, pretending to be his blind Admirer, shews in Effect
the utmost Contempt for him, preferring empty effeminate Sound to his solid Beauties and manly
Graces, and deserting him every Night for an execrable Italian Ballad, so vile that a Boy who
should write such lamentable Dogrel would be turn’d out of Westminster-School for a desperate
Blockhead, too stupid to be corrected and amended by the harshest Discipline of the Place?

I am, Sir, Yours, &c.

ALEXANDER POPE: PREFACE TO EDITION OF SHAKESPEARE. 1725.

It is not my design to enter into a Criticism upon this Author; tho’ to do it effectually and
not superficially would be the best occasion that any just Writer could take, to form the judgment
and taste of our nation. For of all English Poets Shakespear must be confessed to be the fairest
and fullest subject for Criticism, and to afford the most numerous as well as most conspicuous
instances, both of Beauties and Faults of all sorts. But this far exceeds the bounds of a Preface,
the business of which is only to give an account of the fate of his Works, and the disadvantages
under which they have been transmitted to us. We shall hereby extenuate many faults which are
his, and clear him from the imputation of many which are not: A design, which, tho’ it can
be no guide to future Criticks to do him justice in one way, will at least be sufficient to
prevent their doing him an injustice in the other.

I cannot however but mention some of his principal and characteristic Excellencies, for which
(notwithstanding his defects) he is justly and universally elevated above all other Dramatic
Writers. Not that this is the proper place of praising him, but because I would not omit any
occasion of doing it.

If ever any Author deserved the name of an Original, it was Shakespear. Homer himself drew
not his art so immediately from the fountains of Nature; it proceeded thro’ Ægyptian strainers
and channels, and came to him not without some tincture of the learning, or some cast of the
models, of those before him. The Poetry of Shakespear was Inspiration indeed: he is not so
much an Imitator, as an Instrument, of Nature; and ’tis not so just to say that he speaks from
her, as that she speaks thro’ him.

His Characters are so much Nature her self, that ’tis a sort of injury to call them by so distant
a name as Copies of her. Those of other Poets have a constant resemblance, which shews that
they receiv’d them from one another, and were but multiplyers of the same image: each picture,
like a mock-rainbow, is but the reflexion of a reflexion. But every single character in Shakespear
is as much an Individual as those in Life itself; it is as impossible to find any two alike;
and such as from their relation or affinity in any respect appear most to be Twins, will upon
comparison be found remarkably distinct. To this life and variety of Character, we must add
the wonderful Preservation of it; which is such throughout his plays, that had all the Speeches
been printed without the very names of the Persons, I believe one might have apply’d them with
certainty to every speaker.

The Power over our Passions was never possess’d in a more eminent degree, or display’d in so
different instances. Yet all along, there is seen no labour, no pains to raise them; no preparation
to guide our guess to the effect, or be perceiv’d to lead toward it: But the heart swells,
and the tears burst out, just at the proper places: We are surpriz’d, the moment we weep; and
yet upon reflection find the passion so just, that we shou’d be surpriz’d if we had not wept,
and wept at that very moment.

How astonishing is it again, that the passions directly opposite to these, Laughter and Spleen,
are no less at his command! that he is not more a master of the Great, than of the Ridiculous
in human nature; of our noblest tendernesses, than of our vainest foibles; of our strongest
emotions, than of our idlest sensations!

Nor does he only excel in the Passions: In the coolness of Reflection and Reasoning he is full
as admirable. His Sentiments are not only in general the most pertinent and judicious upon
every subject; but by a talent very peculiar, something between Penetration and Felicity, he
hits upon that particular point on which the bent of each argument turns, or the force of each
motive depends. This is perfectly amazing, from a man of no education or experience in those
great and publick scenes of life which are usually the subject of his thoughts: So that he
seems to have known the world by Intuition, to have look’d thro’ humane nature at one glance,
and to be the only Author that gives ground for a very new opinion, That the Philosopher, and
even the Man of the world, may be Born, as well as the Poet.

It must be own’d that with all these great excellencies he has almost as great defects; and
that as he has certainly written better, so he has perhaps written worse, than any other. But
I think I can in some measure account for these defects, from several causes and accidents;
without which it is hard to imagine that so large and so enlighten’d a mind could ever have
been susceptible of them. That all these Contingencies should unite to his disadvantage seems
to me almost as singularly unlucky, as that so many various (nay contrary) Talents should meet
in one man, was happy and extraordinary.

It must be allowed that Stage-Poetry of all other is more particularly levell’d to please the
Populace, and its success more immediately depending upon the Common Suffrage. One cannot therefore
wonder, if Shakespear, having at his first appearance no other aim in his writings than to
procure a subsistance, directed his endeavours solely to hit the taste and humour that then
prevailed. The Audience was generally composed of the meaner sort of people; and therefore
the Images of Life were to be drawn from those of their own rank: accordingly we find that
not our Author’s only but almost all the old Comedies have their Scene among Tradesmen and
Mechanicks: And even their Historical Plays strictly follow the common Old Stories or Vulgar
Traditions of that kind of people. In Tragedy, nothing was so sure to Surprize and cause Admiration,
as the most strange, unexpected, and consequently most unnatural, Events and Incidents; the
most exaggerated Thoughts; the most verbose and bombast Expression; the most pompous Rhymes,
and thundering Versification. In Comedy, nothing was so sure to please, as mean buffoonry,
vile ribaldry, and unmannerly jests of fools and clowns. Yet even in these our Author’s Wit
buoys up, and is born above his subject: his Genius in those low parts is like some Prince
of a Romance in the disguise of a Shepherd or Peasant; a certain Greatness and Spirit now and
then break out, which manifest his higher extraction and qualities.

It may be added, that not only the common Audience had no notion of the rules of writing, but
few even of the better sort piqu’d themselves upon any great degree of knowledge or nicety
that way, till Ben Johnson getting possession of the Stage brought critical learning into vogue:
And that this was not done without difficulty, may appear from those frequent lessons (and
indeed almost Declamations) which he was forced to prefix to his first plays, and put into
the mouth of his Actors, the Grex, Chorus, &c. to remove the prejudices, and inform the judgment
of his hearers. Till then, our Authors had no thoughts of writing on the model of the Ancients:
their Tragedies were only Histories in Dialogue; and their Comedies follow’d the thread of
any Novel as they found it, no less implicitly than if it had been true History.

To judge therefore of Shakespear by Aristotle’s rules, is like trying a man by the Laws of
one Country, who acted under those of another.

Yet it must be observ’d, that when his performances had merited the protection of his Prince,
and when the encouragement of the Court had succeeded to that of the Town, the works of his
riper years are manifestly raised above those of his former. The Dates of his plays sufficiently
evidence that his productions improved, in proportion to the respect he had for his auditors.
And I make no doubt this observation will be found true in every instance, were but Editions
extant from which we might learn the exact time when every piece was composed, and whether
writ for the Town or the Court.

Another Cause (and no less strong than the former) may be deduced from our Author’s being a
Player, and forming himself first upon the judgments of that body of men whereof he was a member.
They have ever had a Standard to themselves, upon other principles than those of Aristotle.
As they live by the Majority, they know no rule but that of pleasing the present humour, and
complying with the wit in fashion; a consideration which brings all their judgment to a short
point. Players are just such judges of what is right, as Taylors are of what is graceful. And
in this view it will be but fair to allow, that most of our Author’s faults are less to be
ascribed to his wrong judgment as a Poet, than to his right judgment as a Player.

By these men it was thought a praise to Shakespear, that he scarce ever blotted a line. This
they industriously propagated, as appears from what we are told by Ben Johnson in his Discoveries,
and from the preface of Heminges and Condell to the first folio Edition. But in reality (however
it has prevailed) there never was a more groundless report, or to the contrary of which there
are more undeniable evidences: As, the Comedy of the Merry Wives of Windsor, which he entirely
new writ; the History of Henry the 6th, which was first published under the Title of the Contention
of York and Lancaster; and that of Henry the 5th, extreamly improved; that of Hamlet enlarged
to almost as much again as at first, and many others. I believe the common opinion of his want
of Learning proceeded from no better ground. This too might be thought a Praise by some; and
to this his Errors have as injudiciously been ascribed by others. For ’tis certain, were it
true, it would concern but a small part of them; the most are such as are not properly Defects,
but Superfœtations: and arise not from want of learning or reading, but from want of thinking
or judging: or rather (to be more just to our Author) from a compliance to those wants in others.
As to a wrong choice of the subject, a wrong conduct of the incidents, false thoughts, forc’d
expressions, &c. if these are not to be ascrib’d to the foresaid accidental reasons, they must
be charg’d upon the Poet himself, and there is no help for it. But I think the two Disadvantages
which I have mentioned (to be obliged to please the lowest of the people, and to keep the worst
of company), if the consideration be extended as far as it reasonably may, will appear sufficient
to mis-lead and depress the greatest Genius upon earth. Nay the more modesty with which such
a one is endued, the more he is in danger of submitting and conforming to others, against his
own better judgment.

But as to his Want of Learning, it may be necessary to say something more: There is certainly
a vast difference between Learning and Languages. How far he was ignorant of the latter, I
cannot determine; but ’tis plain he had much Reading at least, if they will not call it Learning.
Nor is it any great matter, if a man has Knowledge, whether he has it from one language or
from another. Nothing is more evident than that he had a taste of natural Philosophy, Mechanicks,
ancient and modern History, Poetical learning, and Mythology: We find him very knowing in the
customs, rites, and manners of Antiquity. In Coriolanus and Julius Cæsar, not only the Spirit,
but Manners, of the Romans are exactly drawn; and still a nicer distinction is shewn, between
the manners of the Romans in the time of the former and of the latter. His reading in the ancient
Historians is no less conspicuous, in many references to particular passages: and the speeches
copy’d from Plutarch in Coriolanus may, I think, as well be made an instance of his learning,
as those copy’d from Cicero in Catiline, of Ben Johnson’s. The manners of other nations in
general, the Egyptians, Venetians, French, &c., are drawn with equal propriety. Whatever object
of nature, or branch of science, he either speaks of or describes, it is always with competent,
if not extensive knowledge: his descriptions are still exact; all his metaphors appropriated,
and remarkably drawn from the true nature and inherent qualities of each subject. When he treats
of Ethic or Politic, we may constantly observe a wonderful justness of distinction, as well
as extent of comprehension. No one is more a master of the Poetical story, or has more frequent
allusions to the various parts of it: Mr. Waller (who has been celebrated for this last particular)
has not shown more learning this way than Shakespear. We have Translations from Ovid published
in his name, among those Poems which pass for his, and for some of which we have undoubted
authority (being published by himself, and dedicated to his noble Patron the Earl of Southampton).
He appears also to have been conversant in Plautus, from whom he has taken the plot of one
of his plays: he follows the Greek Authors, and particularly Dares Phrygius, in another (altho’
I will not pretend to say in what language he read them). The modern Italian writers of Novels
he was manifestly acquainted with; and we may conclude him to be no less conversant with the
Ancients of his own country, from the use he has made of Chaucer in Troilus and Cressida, and
in the Two Noble Kinsmen, if that Play be his, as there goes a Tradition it was (and indeed
it has little resemblance of Fletcher, and more of our Author than some of those which have
been received as genuine).

I am inclined to think, this opinion proceeded originally from the zeal of the Partizans of
our Author and Ben Johnson; as they endeavoured to exalt the one at the expence of the other.
It is ever the nature of Parties to be in extremes; and nothing is so probable, as that because
Ben Johnson had much the more learning, it was said on the one hand that Shakespear had none
at all; and because Shakespear had much the most wit and fancy, it was retorted on the other,
that Johnson wanted both. Because Shakespear borrowed nothing, it was said that Ben Johnson
borrowed every thing. Because Johnson did not write extempore, he was reproached with being
a year about every piece; and because Shakespear wrote with ease and rapidity, they cryed,
he never once made a blot. Nay the spirit of opposition ran so high, that whatever those of
the one side objected to the other, was taken at the rebound, and turned into Praises; as injudiciously
as their antagonists before had made them Objections.

Poets are always afraid of Envy; but sure they have as much reason to be afraid of Admiration.
They are the Scylla and Charybdis of Authors; those who escape one, often fall by the other.
Pessimum genus inimicorum Laudantes, says Tacitus: and Virgil desires to wear a charm against
those who praise a Poet without rule or reason.

    ——Si ultra placitum laudarit, baccare frontem
    Cingito, ne Vati noceat——.

But however this contention might be carried on by the Partizans on either side, I cannot help
thinking these two great Poets were good friends, and lived on amicable terms and in offices
of society with each other. It is an acknowledged fact, that Ben Johnson was introduced upon
the Stage, and his first works encouraged, by Shakespear. And after his death, that Author
writes To the memory of  his beloved Mr. William Shakespear, which shows as if the friendship
had continued thro’ life. I cannot for my own part find any thing Invidious or Sparing in those
verses, but wonder Mr. Dryden was of that opinion. He exalts him not only above all his Contemporaries,
but above Chaucer and Spenser, whom he will not allow to be great enough to be rank’d with
him; and challenges the names of Sophocles, Euripides, and Æschylus, nay all Greece and Rome
at once, to equal him: And (which is very particular) expressly vindicates him from the imputation
of wanting Art, not enduring that all his excellencies shou’d be attributed to Nature. It is
remarkable too, that the praise he gives him in his Discoveries seems to proceed from a personal
kindness; he tells us that he lov’d the man, as well as honoured his memory; celebrates the
honesty, openness, and frankness of his temper; and only distinguishes, as he reasonably ought,
between the real merit of the Author, and the silly and derogatory applauses of the Players.
Ben Johnson might indeed be sparing in his Commendations (tho’ certainly he is not so in this
instance) partly from his own nature, and partly from judgment. For men of judgment think they
do any man more service in praising him justly, than lavishly. I say, I would fain believe
they were Friends, tho’ the violence and ill-breeding of their Followers and Flatterers were
enough to give rise to the contrary report. I would hope that it may be with Parties, both
in Wit and State, as with those Monsters described by the Poets; and that their Heads at least
may have something humane, tho’ their Bodies and Tails are wild beasts and serpents.

As I believe that what I have mentioned gave rise to the opinion of Shakespear’s want of learning;
so what has continued it down to us may have been the many blunders and illiteracies of the
first Publishers of his works. In these Editions their ignorance shines almost in every page;
nothing is more common than Actus tertia, Exit Omnes, Enter three Witches solus. Their French
is as bad as their Latin, both in construction and spelling: Their very Welsh is false. Nothing
is more likely than that those palpable blunders of Hector’s quoting Aristotle, with others
of that gross kind, sprung from the same root: It not being at all credible that these could
be the errors of any man who had the least tincture of a School, or the least conversation
with such as had. Ben Johnson (whom they will not think partial to him) allows him at least
to have had some Latin; which is utterly inconsistent with mistakes like these. Nay the constant
blunders in proper names of persons and places, are such as must have proceeded from a man
who had not so much as read any history, in any language: so could not be Shakespear’s.

I shall now lay before the reader some of those almost innumerable Errors which have risen
from one source, the ignorance of the Players, both as his actors, and as his editors. When
the nature and kinds of these are enumerated and considered, I dare to say that not Shakespear
only, but Aristotle or Cicero, had their works undergone the same fate, might have appear’d
to want sense as well as learning.

It is not certain that any one of his Plays was published by himself. During the time of his
employment in the Theatre, several of his pieces were printed separately in Quarto. What makes
me think that most of these were not publish’d by him, is the excessive carelessness of the
press: every page is so scandalously false spelled, and almost all the learned and unusual
words so intolerably mangled, that it’s plain there either was no Correcter to the press at
all, or one totally illiterate. If any were supervised by himself, I should fancy the two parts
of Henry the 4th and Midsummer-Night’s Dream might have been so: because I find no other printed
with any exactness; and (contrary to the rest) there is very little variation in all the subsequent
editions of them. There are extant two Prefaces, to the first quarto edition of Troilus and
Cressida in 1609, and to that of Othello; by which it appears, that the first was publish’d
without his knowledge or consent, and even before it was acted, so late as seven or eight years
before he died: and that the latter was not printed till after his death. The whole number
of genuine plays which we have been able to find printed in his life-time, amounts but to eleven.
And of some of these, we meet with two or more editions by different printers, each of which
has whole heaps of trash different from the other: which I should fancy was occasion’d by their
being taken from different copies, belonging to different Playhouses.

The folio edition (in which all the plays we now receive as his were first collected) was published
by two Players, Heming and Condell, in 1623, seven years after his decease. They declare that
all the other editions were stolen and surreptitious, and affirm theirs to be purged from the
errors of the former. This is true as to the literal errors, and no other; for in all respects
else it is far worse than the Quarto’s:

First, because the additions of trifling and bombast passages are in this edition far more
numerous. For whatever had been added, since those Quarto’s, by the actors, or had stolen from
their mouths into the written parts, were from thence conveyed into the printed text, and all
stand charged upon the Author. He himself complained of this usage in Hamlet, where he wishes
that those who play the Clowns wou’d speak no more than is set down for them (Act 3. Sc. 4.).
But as a proof that he could not escape it, in the old editions of Romeo and Juliet there is
no hint of a great number of the mean conceits and ribaldries now to be found there. In others,
the low scenes of Mobs, Plebeians, and Clowns, are vastly shorter than at present: And I have
seen one in particular (which seems to have belonged to the Playhouse, by having the parts
divided with lines, and the Actors names in the margin) where several of those very passages
were added in a written hand, which are since to be found in the folio.

In the next place, a number of beautiful passages which are extant in the first single editions,
are omitted in this: as it seems, without any other reason than their willingness to shorten
some scenes: These men (as it was said of Procrustes) either lopping or stretching an Author,
to make him just fit for their Stage.

This edition is said to be printed from the Original Copies; I believe they meant those which
had lain ever since the Author’s days in the playhouse, and had from time to time been cut,
or added to, arbitrarily. It appears that this edition, as well as the Quarto’s, was printed
(at least partly) from no better copies than the Prompter’s Book or Piece-meal Parts written
out for the use of the actors: For in some places their very(38) names are thro’ carelessness
set down instead of the Personæ Dramatis: And in others the notes of direction to the Property-men
for their Moveables, and to the Players for their Entries,(39) are inserted into the Text,
thro’ the ignorance of the Transcribers.

The Plays not having been before so much as distinguish’d by Acts and Scenes, they are in this
edition divided according as they play’d them; often when there is no pause in the action,
or where they thought fit to make a breach in it, for the sake of Musick, Masques, or Monsters.

Sometimes the scenes are transposed and shuffled backward and forward; a thing which could
no otherwise happen, but by their being taken from separate and piece-meal-written parts.

Many verses are omitted intirely, and others transposed; from whence invincible obscurities
have arisen, past the guess of any Commentator to clear up, but just where the accidental glympse
of an old edition enlightens us.

Some Characters were confounded and mix’d, or two put into one, for want of a competent number
of actors. Thus in the Quarto edition of Midsummer-Night’s Dream, Act 5, Shakespear introduces
a kind of Master of the Revels called Philostratus: all whose part is given to another character
(that of Ægeus) in the subsequent editions: So also in Hamlet and King Lear. This too makes
it probable that the Prompter’s Books were what they call’d the Original Copies.

From liberties of this kind, many speeches also were put into the mouths of wrong persons,
where the Author now seems chargeable with making them speak out of character: Or sometimes
perhaps for no better reason than that a governing Player, to have the mouthing of some favourite
speech himself, would snatch it from the unworthy lips of an Underling.

Prose from verse they did not know, and they accordingly printed one for the other throughout
the volume.

Having been forced to say so much of the Players, I think I ought in justice to remark, that
the Judgment, as well as Condition, of that class of people was then far inferior to what it
is in our days. As then the best Playhouses were Inns and Taverns (the Globe, the Hope, the
Red Bull, the Fortune, &c.), so the top of the profession were then meer Players, not Gentlemen
of the stage: They were led into the Buttery by the Steward, not plac’d at the Lord’s table,
or Lady’s toilette: and consequently were intirely depriv’d of those advantages they now enjoy,
in the familiar conversation of our Nobility, and an intimacy (not to say dearness) with people
of the first condition.

From what has been said, there can be no question but had Shakespear published his works himself
(especially in his latter time, and after his retreat from the stage) we should not only be
certain which are genuine; but should find in those that are, the errors lessened by some thousands.
If I may judge from all the distinguishing marks of his style, and his manner of thinking and
writing, I make no doubt to declare that those wretched plays, Pericles, Locrine, Sir John
Oldcastle, Yorkshire Tragedy, Lord Cromwell, The Puritan, and London Prodigal, cannot be admitted
as his. And I should conjecture of some of the others (particularly Love’s Labour’s Lost, The
Winter’s Tale, and Titus Andronicus), that only some characters, single scenes, or perhaps
a few particular passages, were of his hand. It is very probable what occasion’d some Plays
to be supposed Shakespear’s was only this; that they were pieces produced by unknown authors,
or fitted up for the Theatre while it was under his administration: and no owner claiming them,
they were adjudged to him, as they give Strays to the Lord of the Manor: A mistake which (one
may also observe) it was not for the interest of the House to remove. Yet the Players themselves,
Hemings and Condell, afterwards did Shakespear the justice to reject those eight plays in their
edition; tho’ they were then printed in his name, in every body’s hands, and acted with some
applause (as we learn from what Ben Johnson says of Pericles in his Ode on the New Inn). That
Titus Andronicus is one of this class I am the rather induced to believe, by finding the same
Author openly express his contempt of it in the Induction to Bartholomew-Fair, in the year
1614, when Shakespear was yet living. And there is no better authority for these latter sort,
than for the former, which were equally published in his lifetime.

If we give into this opinion, how many low and vicious parts and passages might no longer reflect
upon this great Genius, but appear unworthily charged upon him? And even in those which are
really his, how many faults may have been unjustly laid to his account from arbitrary Additions,
Expunctions, Transpositions of scenes and lines, confusion of Characters and Persons, wrong
application of Speeches, corruptions of innumerable Passages by the Ignorance, and wrong Corrections
of ’em again by the Impertinence, of his first Editors? From one or other of these considerations,
I am verily perswaded, that the greatest and the grossest part of what are thought his errors
would vanish, and leave his character in a light very different from that disadvantageous one,
in which it now appears to us.

This is the state in which Shakespear’s, writings lye at present; for since the above-mentioned
Folio Edition, all the rest have implicitly followed it, without having recourse to any of
the former, or ever making the comparison between them. It is impossible to repair the Injuries
already done him; too much time has elaps’d, and the materials are too few. In what I have
done I have rather given a proof of my willingness and desire, than of my ability, to do him
justice. I have discharg’d the dull duty of an Editor to my best judgment, with more labour
than I expect thanks, with a religious abhorrence of all Innovation, and without any indulgence
to my private sense or conjecture. The method taken in this Edition will show it self. The
various Readings are fairly put in the margin, so that every one may compare ’em; and those
I have prefer’d into the Text are constantly ex fide Codicum, upon authority. The Alterations
or Additions which Shakespear himself made, are taken notice of as they occur. Some suspected
passages which are excessively bad (and which seem Interpolations by being so inserted that
one can intirely omit them without any chasm or deficience in the context) are degraded to
the bottom of the page; with an Asterisk referring to the places of their insertion. The Scenes
are mark’d so distinctly that every removal of place is specify’d; which is more necessary
in this Author than any other, since he shifts them more frequently: and sometimes, without
attending to this particular, the reader would have met with obscurities. The more obsolete
or unusual words are explained. Some of the most shining passages are distinguish’d by comma’s
in the margin; and where the beauty lay not in particulars but in the whole, a star is prefix’d
to the scene. This seems to me a shorter and less ostentatious method of performing the better
half of Criticism (namely the pointing out an Author’s excellencies) than to fill a whole paper
with citations of fine passages, with general Applauses, or empty Exclamations at the tail
of them. There is also subjoin’d a Catalogue of those first Editions by which the greater part
of the various readings and of the corrected passages are authorised (most of which are such
as carry their own evidence along with them). These Editions now hold the place of Originals,
and are the only materials left to repair the deficiences or restore the corrupted sense of
the Author: I can only wish that a greater number of them (if a greater were ever published)
may yet be found, by a search more successful than mine, for the better accomplishment of this end.

I will conclude by saying of Shakespear, that with all his faults, and with all the irregularity
of his Drama, one may look upon his works, in comparison of those that are more finish’d and
regular, as upon an ancient majestick piece of Gothick Architecture, compar’d with a neat Modern
building: The latter is more elegant and glaring, but the former is more strong and more solemn.
It must be allow’d that in one of these there are materials enough to make many of the other.
It has much the greater variety, and much the nobler apartments; tho’ we are often conducted
to them by dark, odd, and uncouth passages. Nor does the Whole fail to strike us with greater
reverence, tho’ many of the Parts are childish, ill-plac’d, and unequal to its grandeur.

LEWIS THEOBALD: PREFACE TO EDITION OF SHAKESPEARE. 1733.

The Attempt to write upon SHAKESPEARE is like going into a large, a spacious, and a splendid
Dome thro’ the Conveyance of a narrow and obscure Entry. A Glare of Light suddenly breaks upon
you beyond what the Avenue at first promis’d: and a thousand Beauties of Genius and Character,
like so many gaudy Apartments pouring at once upon the Eye, diffuse and throw themselves out
to the Mind. The Prospect is too wide to come within the Compass of a single View: ’tis a gay
Confusion of pleasing Objects, too various to be enjoyed but in a general Admiration; and they
must be separated, and ey’d distinctly, in order to give the proper Entertainment.

And as in great Piles of Building, some Parts are often finish’d up to hit the Taste of the
Connoisseur; others more negligently put together, to strike the Fancy of a common and unlearned
Beholder: Some Parts are made stupendously magnificent and grand, to surprize with the vast
Design and Execution of the Architect; others are contracted, to amuse you with his Neatness
and Elegance in little. So, in Shakespeare, we may find Traits that will stand the Test of
the severest Judgment; and Strokes as carelessly hit off, to the Level of the more ordinary
Capacities: Some Descriptions rais’d to that Pitch of Grandeur, as to astonish you with the
Compass and Elevation of his Thought; and others copying Nature within so narrow, so confined
a Circle, as if the Author’s Talent lay only at drawing in Miniature.

In how many points of Light must we be obliged to gaze at this great Poet! In how many Branches
of Excellence to consider and admire him! Whether we view him on the Side of Art or Nature,
he ought equally to engage our Attention: Whether we respect the Force and Greatness of his
Genius, the Extent of his Knowledge and Reading, the Power and Address with which he throws
out and applies either Nature or Learning, there is ample scope both for our Wonder and Pleasure.
If his Diction and the cloathing of his Thoughts attract us, how much more must we be charm’d
with the Richness and Variety of his Images and Ideas! If his Images and Ideas steal into our
Souls, and strike upon our Fancy, how much are they improv’d in Price, when we come to reflect
with what Propriety and Justness they are apply’d to Character! If we look into his Characters,
and how they are furnish’d and proportion’d to the Employment he cuts out for them, how are
we taken up with the Mastery of his Portraits! What Draughts of Nature! What Variety of Originals,
and how differing each from the other! How are they dress’d from the Stores of his own luxurious
Imagination; without being the Apes of Mode, or borrowing from any foreign Wardrobe! Each of
them are the standards of Fashion for themselves: like Gentlemen that are above the Direction
of their Tailors, and can adorn themselves without the aid of Imitation. If other Poets draw
more than one Fool or Coxcomb, there is the same Resemblance in them as in that Painter’s Draughts,
who was happy only at forming a Rose: you find them all younger Brothers of the same Family,
and all of them have a Pretence to give the same Crest: But Shakespeare’s Clowns and Fops come
all of a different House; they are no farther allied to one another than as Man to Man, Members
of the same Species: but as different in Features and Lineaments of Character, as we are from
one another in Face or Complexion. But I am unawares lanching into his Character as a Writer,
before I have said what I intended of him as a private Member of the Republick.

Mr. Rowe has very justly observ’d, that People are fond of discovering any little personal
Story of the Great Men of Antiquity; and that the common Accidents of their Lives naturally
become the Subject of our critical Enquiries: That however trifling such a Curiosity at the
first View may appear, yet, as for what relates to Men of Letters, the Knowledge of an Author
may, perhaps, sometimes conduce to the better understanding his Works: And, indeed, this Author’s
Works, from the bad Treatment he has met with from Copyists and Editors, have so long wanted
a Comment, that one would zealously embrace every Method of Information that could contribute
to recover them from the injuries with which they have so long lain o’erwhelm’d.

’Tis certain that if we have first admir’d the Man in his Writings, his Case is so circumstanc’d
that we must naturally admire the Writings in the Man: That if we go back to take a View of
his Education, and the Employment in Life which Fortune had cut out for him, we shall retain
the stronger Ideas of his extensive Genius.

His Father, we are told, was a considerable Dealer in Wool; but having no fewer than ten Children,
of whom our Shakespeare was the eldest, the best education he could afford him was no better
than to qualify him for his own Business and Employment. I cannot affirm with any Certainty
how long his Father liv’d; but I take him to be the same Mr. John Shakespeare who was living
in the Year 1599, and who then, in Honour of his Son, took out an Extract of his Family Arms
from the Herald’s Office; by which it appears, that he had been Officer and Bailiff of Stratford
upon Avon in Warwickshire; and that he enjoy’d some hereditary Lands and Tenements, the Reward
of his Great Grandfather’s faithful and approved Service to King Henry VII.

Be this as it will, our Shakespeare, it seems, was bred for some Time at a Free-School; the
very Free-School, I presume, founded at Stratford: where, we are told, he acquired what Latin
he was master of: but that his Father being oblig’d, thro’ Narrowness of Circumstance, to withdraw
him too soon from thence, he was thereby unhappily prevented from making any Proficiency in
the Dead Languages: A Point that will deserve some little Discussion in the Sequel of this
Dissertation.

How long he continued in his Father’s Way of Business, either as an Assistant to him, or on
his own proper Account, no Notices are left to inform us: nor have I been able to learn precisely
at what Period of Life he quitted his native Stratford, and began his Acquaintance with London
and the Stage.

In order to settle in the World after a Family-manner, he thought fit, Mr. Rowe acquaints us,
to marry while he was yet very young. It is certain he did so: for by the Monument in Stratford
Church, erected to the Memory of his Daughter Susanna, the Wife of John Hall, Gentleman, it
appears that she died on the 2d Day of July, in the Year 1649, aged 66. So that she was born
in 1583, when her Father could not be full 19 Years old; who was himself born in the Year 1564.
Nor was she his eldest Child, for he had another Daughter, Judith, who was born before her,
and who was married to one Mr. Thomas Quiney. So that Shakespeare must have entred into Wedlock
by that Time he was turn’d of seventeen Years.

Whether the Force of Inclination merely, or some concurring Circumstances of Convenience in
the Match, prompted him to marry so early, is not easy to be determin’d at this Distance: but
’tis probable, a View of Interest might partly sway his Conduct on this Point: for he married
the Daughter of one Hathaway, a substantial Yeoman in his Neighbourhood, and she had the Start
of him in Age no less than eight Years. She surviv’d him, notwithstanding, seven Seasons, and
dy’d that very Year in which the Players publish’d the first Edition of his Works in Folio,
Anno Dom. 1623, at the Age of 67 Years, as we likewise learn from her Monument in Stratford Church.

How long he continued in this kind of Settlement, upon his own Native Spot, is not more easily
to be determin’d. But if the Tradition be true of that Extravagance which forc’d him both to
quit his Country and Way of Living; to wit, his being engag’d, with a Knot of young Deer-stealers,
to rob the Park of Sir Thomas Lucy of Cherlecot near Stratford: the Enterprize favours so much
of Youth and Levity, we may reasonably suppose it was before he could write full Man. Besides,
considering he has left us six and thirty Plays, at least, avow’d to be genuine; and considering
too, that he had retir’d from the Stage, to spend the latter Part of his Days at his own Native
Stratford; the Interval of Time, necessarily required for the finishing so many Dramatic Pieces,
obliges us to suppose he threw himself very early upon the Playhouse. And as he could, probably,
contract no Acquaintance with the Drama, while he was driving on the Affair of Wool at home;
some Time must be lost, even after he had commenc’d Player, before he could attain Knowledge
enough in the Science to qualify himself for turning Author. There are two Coats, I observe,
in Dugdale, where three Silver Fishes are borne in the Name of Lucy; and another Coat, to the
Monument of Thomas Lucy, Son of Sir William Lucy, in which are quarter’d in four several Divisions
twelve little Fishes, three in each Division, probably Luces. This very Coat, indeed, seems
alluded to in Shallow’s giving the dozen White Luces, and in Slender saying he may quarter.
When I consider the exceeding Candour and Good-nature of our Author (which inclin’d all the
gentler Part of the World to love him; as the Power of his Wit obliged the Men of the most
delicate Knowledge and polite Learning to admire him); and that he should throw this humorous
Piece of Satire at his Prosecutor, at least twenty Years after the Provocation given; I am
confidently persuaded it must be owing to an unforgiving Rancour on the Prosecutor’s Side:
and if This was the Case, it were Pity but the Disgrace of such an Inveteracy should remain
as a lasting Reproach, and Shallow stand as a Mark of Ridicule to stigmatize his Malice.

It is said, our Author spent some Years before his Death, in Ease, Retirement, and the Conversation
of his Friends, at his Native Stratford. I could never pick up any certain Intelligence, when
he relinquish’d the Stage. I know, it has been mistakenly thought by some, that Spenser’s Thalia,
in his Tears of the Muses, where she laments the Loss of her Willy in the Comic Scene, has
been apply’d to our Author’s quitting the Stage. But Spenser himself, ’tis well known, quitted
the Stage of Life in the Year 1598; and, five Years after this, we find Shakespeare’s Name
among the Actors in Ben Jonson’s Sejanus, which first made its Appearance in the Year 1603.
Nor, surely, could he then have any Thoughts of retiring, since, that very Year, a Licence
under the Privy-Seal was granted by K. James I. to him and Fletcher, Burbage, Phillippes, Hemings,
Condel, &c. authorizing them to exercise the Art of playing Comedies, Tragedies, &c. as well
at their usual House call’d the Globe on the other Side of the Water, as in any other Parts
of the Kingdom, during his Majesty’s Pleasure (A Copy of which Licence is preserv’d in Rymer’s
Fœdera). Again, ’tis certain that Shakespeare did not exhibit his Macbeth till after the Union
was brought about, and till after King James I. had begun to touch for the Evil: for ’tis plain,
he has inserted Compliments, on both those Accounts, upon his Royal Master in that Tragedy.
Nor, indeed, could the Number of the Dramatic Pieces he produced admit of his retiring near
so early as that Period. So that what Spenser there says, if it relate at all to Shakespeare,
must hint at some occasional Recess he made for a time upon a Disgust taken: or the Willy,
there mention’d, must relate to some other favourite Poet. I believe, we may safely determine
that he had not quitted in the Year 1610. For in his Tempest, our Author makes mention of the
Bermuda Islands, which were unknown to the English, till, in 1609, Sir John Summers made a
Voyage to North-America, and discover’d them: and afterwards invited some of his Countrymen
to settle a Plantation there.

This sarcastical Piece of Wit was, at the Gentleman’s own Request, thrown out extemporally
in his Company. And this Mr. John Combe I take to be the same, who, by Dugdale in his Antiquities
of Warwickshire, is said to have dy’d in the Year 1614, and for whom, at the upper end of the
Quire of the Guild of the Holy Cross at Stratford, a fair Monument is erected, having a Statue
thereon cut in Alabaster, and in a Gown, with this Epitaph. “Here lyeth interr’d the Body of
John Combe, Esq; who dy’d the 10th of July, 1614, who bequeathed several Annual Charities to
the Parish of Stratford, and 100l. to be lent to fifteen poor Tradesmen from three years to
three years, changing the Parties every third Year, at the Rate of fifty Shillings per Annum,
the Increase to be distributed to the Almes-poor there.”—The Donation has all the Air of a
rich and sagacious Usurer.

Shakespeare himself did not survive Mr. Combe long, for he dy’d in the Year 1616, the 53d of
his Age. He lies buried on the North Side of the Chancel in the great Church at Stratford;
where a Monument, decent enough for the Time, is erected to him, and plac’d against the Wall.
He is represented under an Arch in a sitting posture, a Cushion spread before him, with a Pen
in his Right Hand, and his Left rested on a Scrowl of Paper. The Latin Distich, which is placed
under the Cushion, has been given us by Mr. Pope, or his Graver, in this Manner.

    INGENIO Pylium, Genio Socratem, Arte Maronem,
    Terra tegit, Populus mœret, Olympus habet.

I confess, I don’t conceive the Difference betwixt Ingenio and Genio in the first Verse. They
seem to me intirely synonymous Terms; nor was the Pylian sage Nestor celebrated for his Ingenuity,
but for an Experience and Judgment owing to his long Age. Dugdale, in his Antiquities of Warwickshire,
has copied this Distich with a Distinction which Mr. Rowe has follow’d, and which certainly
restores us the true Meaning of this Epitaph.

    JUDICIO Pylium, Genio Socratem, &c.

In 1614, the greater Part of the Town of Stratford was consumed by Fire; but our Shakespeare’s
House, among some others, escap’d the Flames. This House was first built by Sir Hugh Clopton,
a younger Brother of an ancient Family in that Neighbourhood, who took their Name from the
Manor of Clopton. Sir Hugh was Sheriff of London in the Reign of Richard III. and Lord Mayor
in the Reign of King Henry VII. To this Gentleman the Town of Stratford is indebted for the
fine Stonebridge, consisting of fourteen Arches, which at an extraordinary Expence he built
over the Avon, together with a Cause-way running at the West-end thereof; as also for rebuilding
the Chapel adjoining to his House, and the Cross-Isle in the Church there. It is remarkable
of him, that, tho’ he liv’d and dy’d a Bachelor, among the other extensive Charities which
he left both to the City of London and Town of Stratford, he bequeath’d considerable Legacies
for the Marriage of poor Maidens of good Name and Fame both in London and at Stratford. Notwithstanding
which large Donations in his Life, and Bequests at his Death, as he had purchased the Manor
of Clopton, and all the Estate of the Family, so he left the same again to his elder Brother’s
Son with a very great Addition (a Proof how well Beneficence and Œconomy may walk hand in hand
in wise Families): Good Part of which Estate is yet in the Possession of Edward Clopton, Esq.
and Sir Hugh Clopton, Knt. lineally descended from the elder Brother of the first Sir Hugh:
Who particularly bequeathed to his Nephew, by his Will, his House, by the Name of his Great-House
in Stratford.

The Estate had now been sold out of the Clopton Family for above a Century, at the time when
Shakespeare became the Purchaser: who, having repair’d and modell’d it to his own Mind, chang’d
the Name to New-place; which the Mansion-house, since erected upon the same Spot, at this day
retains. The House and Lands, which attended it, continued in Shakespeare’s Descendants to
the Time of the Restoration: when they were repurchased by the Clopton Family, and the Mansion
now belongs to Sir Hugh Clopton, Knt. To the Favour of this worthy Gentleman I owe the Knowledge
of one Particular, in Honour of our Poet’s once Dwelling-house, of which, I presume, Mr. ROWE
never was appriz’d. When the Civil War raged in England, and K. Charles the First’s Queen was
driven by the Necessity of Affairs to make a Recess in Warwickshire, she kept her Court for
three Weeks in New-place. We may reasonably suppose it then the best private House in the Town;
and her Majesty preferr’d it to the College, which was in the Possession of the Combe Family,
who did not so strongly favour the King’s Party.

How much our Author employ’d himself in Poetry, after his Retirement from the Stage, does not
so evidently appear: Very few posthumous Sketches of his Pen have been recover’d to ascertain
that Point. We have been told, indeed, in Print, but not till very lately, That two large Chests
full of this Great Man’s loose Papers and Manuscripts, in the Hands of an ignorant Baker of
Warwick (who married one of the Descendants from our Shakespeare), were carelessly scatter’d
and thrown about, as Garret-Lumber and Litter, to the particular Knowledge of the late Sir
William Bishop, till they were all consumed in the general Fire and Destruction of that Town.
I cannot help being a little apt to distrust the Authority of this Tradition; because as his
Wife survived him seven Years, and as his Favourite Daughter Susanna surviv’d her twenty-six
Years, ’tis very improbable they should suffer such a Treasure to be remov’d, and translated
into a remoter Branch of the Family, without a Scrutiny first made into the Value of it. This,
I say, inclines me to distrust the Authority of the Relation: but, notwithstanding such an
apparent Improbability, if we really lost such a Treasure, by whatever Fatality or Caprice
of Fortune they came into such ignorant and neglectful Hands, I agree with the Relater, the
Misfortune is wholly irreparable.

To these Particulars, which regard his Person and private Life, some few more are to be glean’d
from Mr. ROWE’S Account of his Life and Writings: Let us now take a short View of him in his
publick Capacity, as a Writer: and, from thence, the Transition will be easy to the State in
which his Writings have been handed down to us.

No Age, perhaps, can produce an Author more various from himself than Shakespeare has been
universally acknowledged to be. The Diversity in Stile, and other Parts of Composition, so
obvious in him, is as variously to be accounted for. His Education, we find, was at best but
begun: and he started early into a Science from the Force of Genius, unequally assisted by
acquir’d Improvements. His Fire, Spirit, and Exuberance of Imagination gave an impetuosity
to his Pen: His Ideas flow’d from him in a Stream rapid, but not turbulent; copious, but not
ever over-bearing its Shores. The Ease and Sweetness of his Temper might not a little contribute
to his Facility in Writing: as his Employment, as a Player, gave him an Advantage and Habit
of fancying himself the very Character he meant to delineate. He used the Helps of his Function
in forming himself to create and express that Sublime which other Actors can only copy, and
throw out, in Action and graceful Attitude. But Nullum sine Venia placuit Ingenium, says Seneca.
The Genius that gives us the greatest Pleasure, sometimes stands in Need of our Indulgence.
Whenever this happens with regard to Shakespeare I would willingly impute it to a Vice of his
Times. We see Complaisance enough, in our Days, paid to a bad Taste. So that his Clinches,
false Wit, and descending beneath himself, may have proceeded from a Deference paid to the
then reigning Barbarism.

I have not thought it out of my Province, whenever Occasion offer’d, to take notice of some
of our Poet’s grand Touches of Nature: Some that do not appear superficially such; but in which
he seems the most deeply instructed; and to which, no doubt, he has so much ow’d that happy
Preservation of his Characters, for which he is justly celebrated. Great Genius’s, like his,
naturally unambitious, are satisfy’d to conceal their Art in these Points. ’Tis the Foible
of your worser Poets to make a Parade and Ostentation of that little Science they have; and
to throw it out in the most ambitious Colours. And whenever a Writer of this Class shall attempt
to copy these artful Concealments of our Author, and shall either think them easy, or practised
by a Writer for his Ease, he will soon be convinced of his Mistake by the Difficulty of reaching
the Imitation of them.

    Speret idem, sudet multum, frustraque laboret,
    Ausus idem:——

Indeed, to point out, and exclaim upon, all the Beauties of Shakespeare, as they come singly
in Review, would be as insipid, as endless; as tedious, as unnecessary: But the Explanation
of those Beauties that are less obvious to common Readers, and whose Illustration depends on
the Rules of just Criticism, and an exact knowledge of human Life, should deservedly have a
Share in a general Critic upon the Author. But, to pass over at once to another Subject:——

It has been allow’d on all hands, how far our Author was indebted to Nature; it is not so well
agreed, how much he ow’d to Languages and acquired Learning. The Decisions on this Subject
were certainly set on Foot by the Hint from Ben Jonson, that he had small Latin and less Greek:
And from this Tradition, as it were, Mr. Rowe has thought fit peremptorily to declare, that,
“It is without Controversy, he had no Knowledge of the Writings of the ancient Poets, for that
in his Works we find no Traces of any thing which looks like an imitation of the Ancients.
The Result of the Controversy must certainly, either way, terminate to our Author’s Honour:
how happily he could imitate them, if that Point be allowed; or how gloriously he could think
like them, without owing any thing to Imitation.

Tho’ I should be very unwilling to allow Shakespeare so poor a Scholar as Many have labour’d
to represent him, yet I shall be very cautious of declaring too positively on the other side
of the Question: that is, with regard to my Opinion of his Knowledge in the dead languages.
And therefore the Passages, that I occasionally quote from the Classics, shall not be urged
as Proofs that he knowingly imitated those Originals; but brought to shew how happily he has
express’d himself upon the same Topicks. A very learned Critick of our own Nation has declar’d,
that a Sameness of Thought and Sameness of Expression too, in Two Writers of a different Age,
can hardly happen, without a violent Suspicion of the latter copying from his Predecessor.
I shall not therefore run any great Risque of a Censure, tho’ I should venture to hint, that
the Resemblances in Thought and Expression of our Author and an Ancient (which we should allow
to be Imitation in the One whose learning was not question’d) may sometimes take its Rise from
Strength of Memory, and those Impressions which he owed to the School. And if we may allow
a Possibility of This, considering that, when he quitted the School he gave into his Father’s
Profession and way of Living, and had, ’tis likely, but a slender Library of Classical Learning;
and considering what a Number of Translations, Romances, and Legends, started about his Time,
and a little before (most of which, ’tis very evident, he read); I think, it may easily be
reconciled why he rather schemed his Plots and Characters from these more latter Informations,
than went back to those Fountains, for which he might entertain a sincere Veneration, but to
which he could not have so ready a Recourse.

In touching on another Part of his Learning, as it related to the Knowledge of History and
Books, I shall advance something that, at first sight, will very much wear the Appearance of
a Paradox. For I shall find it no hard Matter to prove, that, from the grossest Blunders in
History, we are not to infer his real Ignorance of it: Nor from a greater Use of Latin Words,
than ever any other English Author used, must we infer his intimate Acquaintance with that
Language.

A Reader of Taste may easily observe, that tho’ Shakespeare, almost in every Scene of his historical
Plays, commits the grossest Offences against Chronology, History, and Ancient Politicks; yet
This was not thro’ Ignorance, as is generally supposed, but thro’ the too powerful Blaze of
his Imagination; which, when once raised, made all acquired Knowledge vanish and disappear
before it. But this Licence in him, as I have said, must not be imputed to Ignorance: since
as often we may find him, when Occasion serves, reasoning up to the Truth of History; and throwing
out Sentiments as justly adapted to the Circumstances of his Subject, as to the Dignity of
his Characters, or Dictates of Nature in general.

Then to come to his Knowledge of the Latin Tongue, ’tis certain there is a surprising Effusion
of Latin Words made English, far more than in any one English Author I have seen; but we must
be cautious to imagine this was of his own doing. For the English Tongue, in this Age, began
extremely to suffer by an inundation of Latin: And this, to be sure, was occasion’d by the
Pedantry of those two Monarchs, Elizabeth and James, Both great Latinists. For it is not to
be wonder’d at, if both the Court and Schools, equal Flatterers of Power, should adapt themselves
to the Royal Taste.

But now I am touching on the Question (which has been so frequently agitated, yet so entirely
undecided) of his Learning and Acquaintance with the Languages; an additional Word or two naturally
falls in here upon the Genius of our Author, as compared with that of Jonson his Contemporary.
They are confessedly the greatest Writers our Nation could ever boast of in the Drama. The
first, we say, owed all to his prodigious natural Genius; and the other a great deal to his
Art and Learning. This, if attended to, will explain a very remarkable Appearance in their
Writings. Besides those wonderful Masterpieces of Art and Genius, which each has given us,
They are the Authors of other Works very unworthy of them: But with this Difference, that in
Jonson’s bad Pieces we don’t discover one single Trace of the Author of the Fox and Alchemist:
but in the wild extravagant Notes of Shakespeare, you every now and then encounter Strains
that recognize the divine Composer. This Difference may be thus accounted for. Jonson, as we
said before, owing all his Excellence to his Art, by which he sometimes strain’d himself to
an uncommon Pitch, when at other times he unbent and play’d with his Subject, having nothing
then to support him, it is no wonder he wrote so far beneath himself. But Shakespeare, indebted
more largely to Nature than the Other to acquired Talents, in his most negligent Hours could
never so totally divest himself of his Genius, but that it would frequently break out with
astonishing Force and Splendor.

As I have never propos’d to dilate farther on the Character of my Author than was necessary
to explain the Nature and Use of this Edition, I shall proceed to consider him as a Genius
in Possession of an everlasting Name. And how great that Merit must be, which could gain it
against all the Disadvantages of the horrid Condition in which he had hitherto appear’d! Had
Homer, or any other admir’d Author, first started into Publick so maim’d and deform’d, we cannot
determine whether they had not sunk for ever under the Ignominy of such an ill Appearance.
The mangled Condition of Shakespeare has been acknowledg’d by Mr. Rowe, who published him indeed,
but neither corrected his Text, nor collated the old Copies. This Gentleman had Abilities,
and a sufficient Knowledge of his Author, had but his Industry been equal to his Talents. The
same mangled Condition has been acknowledg’d too by Mr. Pope, who publish’d him likewise, pretended
to have collated the old Copies, and yet seldom has corrected the Text but to its Injury. I
congratulate with the Manes of our Poet, that this Gentleman has been sparing in indulging
his private Sense, as he phrases it; for He who tampers with an Author whom he does not understand,
must do it at the Expence of his Subject. I have made it evident throughout my Remarks, that
he has frequently inflicted a Wound where he intended a Cure. He has acted with regard to our
Author, as an Editor, whom LIPSIUS mentions, did with regard to MARTIAL; Inventus est nescio
quis Popa, qui non vitia ejus, sed ipsum excidit. He has attack’d him like an unhandy Slaughterman;
and not lopp’d off the Errors, but the Poet.

When this is found to be Fact, how absurd must appear the Praises of such an Editor! They have
Both shewn themselves in an equal Impuissance of suspecting, or amending, the corrupted Passages:
and tho’ it be neither Prudence to censure, or commend, what one does not understand; yet if
a man must do one when he plays the Critick, the latter is the more ridiculous Office: And
by that Shakespeare suffers most. For the natural Veneration which we have for him, makes us
apt to swallow whatever is given us as his, and set off with Encomiums; and hence we quit all
suspicions of Depravity: On the contrary, the Censure of so divine an Author sets us upon his
Defence; and this produces an exact Scrutiny and Examination, which ends in finding out and
discriminating the true from the spurious.

It is not with any secret Pleasure that I so frequently animadvert on Mr. Pope as a Critick;
but there are Provocations which a Man can never quite forget. His Libels have been thrown
out with so much Inveteracy, that, not to dispute whether they should come from a Christian,
they leave it a Question whether they could come from a Man. I should be loth to doubt, as
Quintus Serenus did in a like Case,

    Sive homo, seu similis turpissima bestia nobis,
    Vulnera dente dedit.

The Indignation, perhaps, for being represented a Block-head, may be as strong in us as it
is in the Ladies for a Reflexion on their Beauties. It is certain, I am indebted to Him for
some flagrant Civilities; and I shall willingly devote a Part of my Life to the honest Endeavour
of quitting Scores: with this Exception however, that I will not return those Civilities in
his peculiar Strain, but confine myself, at least, to the Limits of common Decency. I shall
ever think it better to want Wit, than to want Humanity: and impartial Posterity may, perhaps,
be of my Opinion.

But, to return to my Subject; which now calls upon me to inquire into those Causes, to which
the Depravations of my Author originally may be assign’d. We are to consider him as a Writer,
of whom no authentic Manuscript was left extant; as a Writer, whose Pieces were dispersedly
perform’d on the several Stages then in Being. And it was the Custom of those Days for the
Poets to take a Price of the Players for the Pieces They from time to time furnish’d; and thereupon
it was suppos’d, they had no farther Right to print them without the Consent of the Players.
As it was the Interest of the Companies to keep their Plays unpublish’d, when any one succeeded,
there was a Contest betwixt the Curiosity of the Town, who demanded to see it in Print, and
the Policy of the Stagers, who wish’d to secrete it within their own Walls. Hence, many Pieces
were taken down in Short-hand, and imperfectly copied by Ear, from a Representation: Others
were printed from piece-meal Parts surreptitiously obtain’d from the Theatres, uncorrect, and
without the Poet’s Knowledge. To some of these Causes we owe the Train of Blemishes that deform
those Pieces which stole singly into the World in our Author’s Lifetime.

There are still other Reasons which may be suppos’d to have affected the whole Set. When the
Players took upon them to publish his Works intire, every Theatre was ransack’d to supply the
Copy; and Parts collected, which had gone thro’ as many Changes as Performers, either from
Mutilations or Additions made to them. Hence we derive many Chasms and Incoherences in the
Sense and Matter. Scenes were frequently transposed, and shuffled out of their true Place,
to humour the Caprice, or suppos’d Convenience, of some particular Actor. Hence much Confusion
and Impropriety has attended and embarrass’d the Business and Fable. To these obvious Causes
of Corruption it must be added, That our Author has lain under the Disadvantage of having his
Errors propagated and multiplied by Time: because, for near a Century, his Works were publish’d
from the faulty Copies, without the Assistance of any intelligent Editor: which has been the
Case likewise of many a Classic Writer.

The Nature of any Distemper once found has generally been the immediate Step to a Cure. Shakespeare’s
Case has in a great Measure resembled That of a corrupt Classic; and, consequently, the Method
of Cure was likewise to bear a Resemblance. By what Means, and with what Success, this Cure
has been effected on ancient Writers, is too well known, and needs no formal Illustration.
The Reputation, consequent on Tasks of that Nature, invited me to attempt the Method here;
with this view, the Hopes of restoring to the Publick their greatest Poet in his original Purity:
after having so long lain in a Condition that was a Disgrace to common Sense. To this end I
have ventur’d on a Labour, that is the first Assay of the kind on any modern Author whatsoever.

For the late Edition of Milton by the Learned Dr. Bentley is, in the main, a Performance of
another Species. It is plain, it was the Intention of that Great Man rather to correct and
pare off the Excrescencies of the Paradise Lost, in the Manner that Tucca and Varius were employ’d
to criticize the Æneis of Virgil, than to restore corrupted Passages. Hence, therefore, may
be seen either the Iniquity or Ignorance of his Censurers, who, from some Expressions, would
make us believe, the Doctor every where gives us his Corrections as the original Text of the
Author; whereas the chief Turn of his Criticism is plainly to shew the World, that if Milton
did not write as He would have him, he ought to have wrote so.

I thought proper to premise this Observation to the Readers, as it will shew that the Critic
on Shakespeare is of a quite different Kind. His genuine Text is for the most part religiously
adhered to, and the numerous Faults and Blemishes, purely his own, are left as they were found.
Nothing is alter’d, but what by the clearest Reasoning can be proved a Corruption of the true
Text; and the Alteration, a real Restoration of the genuine Reading. Nay, so strictly have
I strove to give the true Reading, tho’ sometimes not to the Advantage of my Author, that I
have been ridiculously ridicul’d for it by Those, who either were iniquitously for turning
every thing to my Disadvantage, or else were totally ignorant of the true Duty of an Editor.

The Science of Criticism, as far as it effects an Editor, seems to be reduced to these three
Classes; the Emendation of corrupt Passages; the Explanation of obscure and difficult ones;
and an Inquiry into the Beauties and Defects of Composition. This Work is principally confin’d
to the two former Parts: tho’ there are some Specimens interspers’d of the latter Kind, as
several of the Emendations were best supported, and several of the Difficulties best explain’d,
by taking notice of the Beauties and Defects of the Composition peculiar to this Immortal Poet.
But this was but occasional, and for the sake only of perfecting the two other Parts, which
were the proper Objects of the Editor’s Labour. The third lies open for every willing Undertaker:
and I shall be pleas’d to see it the Employment of a masterly Pen.

It must necessarily happen, as I have formerly observ’d, that where the Assistance of Manuscripts
is wanting to set an Author’s Meaning right, and rescue him from those Errors which have been
transmitted down thro’ a series of incorrect Editions, and a long Intervention of Time, many
Passages must be desperate, and past a Cure; and their true Sense irretrievable either to Care
or the Sagacity of Conjecture. But is there any Reason therefore to say, That because All cannot
be retriev’d, All ought to be left desperate? We should shew very little Honesty, or Wisdom,
to play the Tyrants with an Author’s Text; to raze, alter, innovate, and overturn, at all Adventures,
and to the utter Detriment of his Sense and Meaning: But to be so very reserved and cautious,
as to interpose no Relief or Conjecture, where it manifestly labours and cries out for Assistance,
seems, on the other hand, an indolent Absurdity.

As there are very few pages in Shakespeare, upon which some Suspicions of Depravity do not
reasonably arise; I have thought it my Duty, in the first place, by a diligent and laborious
Collation to take in the Assistances of all the older Copies.

In his Historical Plays, whenever our English Chronicles, and in his Tragedies when Greek or
Roman Story, could give any Light; no Pains have been omitted to set Passages right by comparing
my Author with his Originals; for as I have frequently observed, he was a close and accurate
Copier where-ever his Fable was founded on History.

Where-ever the Author’s Sense is clear and discoverable (tho’, perchance, low and trivial),
I have not by any Innovation tamper’d with his Text, out of an Ostentation of endeavouring
to make him speak better than the old Copies have done.

Where, thro’ all the former Editions, a Passage has labour’d under flat Nonsense and invincible
Darkness, if, by the Addition or Alteration of a Letter or two, or a Transposition in the Pointing,
I have restored to Him both Sense and Sentiment; such Corrections, I am persuaded, will need
no Indulgence.

And whenever I have taken a greater Latitude and Liberty in amending, I have constantly endeavour’d
to support my Corrections and Conjectures by parallel Passages and Authorities from himself,
the surest Means of expounding any Author whatsoever. Cette voïe d’interpreter un Autheur par
lui-même est plus sure que tous les Commentaires, says a very learned French Critick.

As to my Notes (from which the common and learned Readers of our Author, I hope, will derive
some Satisfaction), I have endeavour’d to give them a Variety in some Proportion to their Number.
Where-ever I have ventur’d at an Emendation, a Note is constantly subjoin’d to justify and
assert the Reason of it. Where I only offer a Conjecture, and do not disturb the Text, I fairly
set forth my Grounds for such Conjecture, and submit it to Judgment. Some Remarks are spent
in explaining Passages, where the Wit or Satire depends on an obscure Point of History: Others,
where Allusions are to Divinity, Philosophy, or other Branches of Science. Some are added to
shew where there is a Suspicion of our Author having borrow’d from the Ancients: Others, to
shew where he is rallying his Contemporaries; or where He himself is rallied by them. And some
are necessarily thrown in, to explain an obscure and obsolete Term, Phrase, or Idea. I once
intended to have added a complete and copious Glossary; but as I have been importun’d, and
am prepar’d, to give a correct Edition of our Author’s POEMS (in which many Terms occur that
are not to be met with in his Plays), I thought a Glossary to all Shakespeare’s Works more
proper to attend that Volume.

In reforming an infinite Number of Passages in the Pointing, where the Sense was before quite
lost, I have frequently subjoin’d Notes to shew the deprav’d, and to prove the reform’d, Pointing:
a Part of Labour in this Work which I could very willingly have spar’d myself. May it not be
objected, why then have you burden’d us with these Notes? The Answer is obvious, and, if I
mistake not, very material. Without such Notes, these Passages in subsequent Editions would
be liable, thro’ the Ignorance of Printers and Correctors, to fall into the old Confusion:
Whereas, a Note on every one hinders all possible Return to Depravity, and for ever secures
them in a State of Purity and Integrity not to be lost or forfeited.

Again, as some Notes have been necessary to point out the Detection of the corrupted Text,
and establish the Restoration of the genuine Readings; some others have been as necessary for
the Explanation of Passages obscure and difficult. To understand the Necessity and Use of this
Part of my Task, some Particulars of my Author’s Character are previously to be explain’d.
There are Obscurities in him, which are common to him with all Poets of the same Species; there
are Others, the Issue of the Times he liv’d in; and there are others, again, peculiar to himself.
The Nature of Comic Poetry being entirely satirical, it busies itself more in exposing what
we call Caprice and Humour, than Vices cognizable to the Laws. The English, from the Happiness
of a free Constitution, and a Turn of Mind peculiarly speculative and inquisitive, are observ’d
to produce more Humourists and a greater Variety of original Characters, than any other People
whatsoever: And These owing their immediate Birth to the peculiar Genius of each Age, an infinite
Number of Things alluded to, glanced at, and expos’d, must needs become obscure, as the Characters
themselves are antiquated and disused. An Editor therefore should be well vers’d in the History
and Manners of his Author’s Age, if he aims at doing him a Service in this Respect. Now, the
Age in which Shakespeare liv’d, having, above all others, a wonderful Affection to appear Learned,
They declined vulgar Images, such as are immediately fetch’d from Nature, and rang’d thro’
the Circle of the Sciences to fetch their Ideas from thence. But as the Resemblances of such
Ideas to the Subject must necessarily lie very much out of the common Way, and every Piece
of Wit appear a Riddle to the Vulgar; This, that should have taught them the forced, quaint,
unnatural Tract they were in (and induce them to follow a more natural One), was the very Thing
that kept them attach’d to it. The ostentatious Affectation of abstruse Learning, peculiar
to that Time, the Love that Men naturally have to every Thing that looks like Mystery, fixed
them down to this Habit of Obscurity. Thus became the Poetry of DONNE (tho’ the wittiest Man
of that Age) nothing but a continued Heap of Riddles. And our Shakespeare, with all his easy
Nature about him, for want of the Knowledge of the true Rules of Art, falls frequently into
this vicious Manner.

The third Species of Obscurities which deform our Author, as the Effects of his own Genius
and Character, are Those that proceed from his peculiar Manner of Thinking, and as peculiar
a Manner of cloathing those Thoughts. With regard to his Thinking, it is certain that he had
a general Knowledge of all the Sciences: But his Acquaintance was rather That of a Traveller,
than a Native. Nothing in Philosophy was unknown to him; but every Thing in it had the Grace
and Force of Novelty. And as Novelty is one main Source of Admiration, we are not to wonder
that He has perpetual Allusions to the most recondite Parts of the Sciences: and This was done
not so much out of Affectation, as the Effect of Admiration begot by Novelty. Then, as to his
Style and Diction, we may much more justly apply to SHAKESPEARE what a celebrated Writer has
said of MILTON; Our Language sunk under him, and was unequal to that Greatness of Soul which
furnish’d him with such glorious Conceptions. He therefore frequently uses old Words, to give
his Diction an Air of Solemnity; as he coins others, to express the Novelty and Variety of
his Ideas.

Upon every distinct Species of these Obscurities I have thought it my Province to employ a
Note, for the Service of my Author, and the Entertainment of my Readers. A few transient Remarks
too I have not scrupled to intermix, upon the Poet’s Negligences and Omissions in point of
Art; but I have done it always in such a Manner as will testify my Deference and Veneration
for the immortal Author. Some Censurers of Shakespeare, and particularly Mr. Rymer, have taught
me to distinguish betwixt the Railer and Critick. The Outrage of his Quotations is so remarkably
violent, so push’d beyond all bounds of Decency and Sober Reasoning, that it quite carries
over the Mark at which it was levell’d. Extravagant Abuse throws off the Edge of the intended
Disparagement, and turns the Madman’s Weapon into his own Bosom. In short, as to Rymer, This
is my Opinion of him from his Criticisms on the Tragedies of the Last Age. He writes with great
Vivacity, and appears to have been a Scholar: but, as for his Knowledge of the Art of Poetry,
I can’t perceive it was any deeper than his Acquaintance with Bossu and Dacier, from whom he
has transcrib’d many of his best Reflexions. The late Mr. Gildon was one attached to Rymer
by a similar way of Thinking and Studies. They were both of that Species of Criticks, who are
desirous of displaying their Powers rather in finding Faults, than in consulting the Improvement
of the World: the hypercritical Part of the Science of Criticism.

I had not mentioned the modest Liberty I have here and there taken of animadverting on my Author,
but that I was willing to obviate in time the splenetick Exaggerations of my Adversaries on
this Head. From past Experiments I have reason to be conscious in what Light this Attempt may
be placed: and that what I call a modest Liberty, will, by a little of their Dexterity, be
inverted into downright Impudence. From a hundred mean and dishonest Artifices employ’d to
discredit this Edition, and to cry down its Editor, I have all the Grounds in nature to beware
of Attacks. But tho’ the Malice of Wit, join’d to the Smoothness of Versification, may furnish
some Ridicule; Fact, I hope, will be able to stand its Ground against Banter and Gaiety.

It has been my Fate, it seems, as I thought it my Duty, to discover some Anachronisms in our
Author; which might have slept in Obscurity but for this Restorer, as Mr. Pope is pleas’d affectionately
to stile me: as, for Instance, where Aristotle is mentioned by Hector in Troilus and Cressida:
and Galen, Cato, and Alexander the Great, in Coriolanus. These, in Mr. Pope’s Opinion, are
Blunders, which the Illiteracy of the first Publishers of his Works has father’d upon the Poet’s
Memory: it not being at all credible, that These could be the Errors of any Man who had the
least Tincture of a School, or the least Conversation with Such as had. But I have sufficiently
proved, in the course of my Notes, that such Anachronisms were the Effect of Poetic Licence,
rather than of Ignorance in our Poet. And if I may be permitted to ask a modest Question by
the way, Why may not I restore an Anachronism really made by our Author, as well as Mr. Pope
take the Privilege to fix others upon him, which he never had it in his Head to make; as I
may venture to affirm he had not, in the Instance of Sir Francis Drake, to which I have spoke
in the proper Place?

But who shall dare make any Words about this Freedom of Mr. Pope’s towards Shakespeare, if
it can be prov’d, that, in his Fits of Criticism, he makes no more Ceremony with good Homer
himself? To try, then, a Criticism of his own advancing; In the 8th Book of the Odyssey, where
Demodocus sings the Episode of the Loves of Mars and Venus; and that, upon their being taken
in the Net by Vulcan,

    ——The God of Arms
    Must pay the Penalty for lawless Charms;

