After what I have written of Sir George and the holy well, which we so unfortunately moved
from its proper site, it will be readily imagined that he attached no small importance to the
safe keeping of the "Luck;" and truly he did so. But instead of simply locking it up, where
he might feel sure it could neither break nor fall, he would show it to all visitors, and not
content with that, would insist on their taking it into their hands to examine and handle it.
He maintained that otherwise there was no fair submission to the test of luck, which was intended
by the inscription. It would have been mere cowardly prevarication to lock it away under circumstances
which took the matter out of the dominion of "luck" altogether. I wonder that under such circumstances
it has not fallen, for the nervous trepidation of the folks who were made to handle it may
be imagined!

I made another friend at Penrith in the person of a man as strongly contrasted with Sir George
Musgrave as two north-country Englishmen could well be. This was a Dr. Nicholson, who has died
within the last few months, to my great regret, for I had promised myself the great pleasure
of taking him by the hand yet once again before starting on the journey on which we may, or
may not meet. He was my senior by a few years, but not by many. Nicholson was a man of very
extensive reading and of profound Biblical learning. It may be deemed surprising by others,
as it was, and is, to me, that such a man should have been an earnest and thoroughly convinced
Swedenborgian--but such was the case. And I can conscientiously give this testimony to the
excellence of that creed--that it produced in the person of its learned north-country disciple
at least one truly good and amiable man. Dr. Nicholson was emphatically such in all the relations
of life. He was the good and loving husband of a very charming wife, the unremittingly careful
and affectionate father of a large family, a delightful host at his own table, an excellent
and instructive companion over a cigar (hardly correctly alluded to in the singular number!)
and a most jucundus comes in a tramp over the hills.

Amusing to me still is the contrast between those Cumberland walks with Sir George and my ramblings
over the same or nearly the same ground with the meditative Swedenborgian doctor;--the first
always pushing ahead as if shouldering along a victorious path through life, knowing the history
of every foot of ground he passed over, interested in every detail of it, and with an air of
continually saying "Ha! ha!" among the breezy trumpets of those hills, like the scriptural
war-horse; the second with his gaze very imperfectly turned outward, but very fruitfully turned
inward, frequently pausing with argumentative finger laid on his companion's breast, and smile
half satirical half kindly as the flow of discourse revealed theological lacunae in my acquirements,
which, I fear, irreparably and most unfairly injured the Regius professor of divinity in the
mind of the German graduate. For Nicholson was a theological "doctor" by virtue of a degree
from I forget what German university, and had a low estimate, perhaps more justified at that
day than it would be now, of the extent and calibre of Oxford theological learning. He was
himself a disciple, and an enthusiastic admirer of Ewald, a very learned Hebraist, and an unflagging
student.

I was more capable of appreciating at its due value the extent and accuracy of his knowledge
upon another subject--a leg of mutton! It may be a mere coincidence, but certainly the most
learned Hebraist it was ever my lot to know was also the best and most satisfactory carver
of a leg of mutton.

Nobody knows anything about mutton in these days, for the very sufficient reason that there
is no mutton worth knowing anything about. Scientific breeding has improved it off the face
of the earth. The immature meat is killed at two years old, and only we few survivors of a
former generation know how little like it is to the mutton of former days. The Monmouthshire
farmers told me the other day that they could not keep Welsh sheep of pure breed, because nothing
under an eight-foot park paling would confine them. Just as if they did not jump in the days
when I jumped too! Believe me, my young friends, that George the Third knew what he was talking
about (as upon certain other occasions) when he said that very little venison was equal to
a haunch of four-year-old mutton. And the gravy!--chocolate-coloured, not pink, my innocent
young friends. Ichabod! Ichabod!

My uncle, too, Mr. Partington--who married my father's sister, and lived many years chairman
of quarter sessions at Offham, among the South Downs, near Lewes--there was a man who understood
mutton! A little silver saucepan was placed by his side when the leg of mutton, or sometimes
two, about as big as fine fowls, were placed in one dish before him. Then, after the mutton
had been cut, the abundantly flowing gravy was transferred to the saucepan, a couple of glasses
of tawny old port, and a quantum suff. of currant jelly and cayenne were added, the whole was
warmed in the dining-room, and then--we ate mutton, as I shall never eat it again in this world!

Well! revenir a nos moutons we never, never shall! So we must, alas! do the reverse in returning
to my Penrith reminiscences.

I remember specially an excellent old fellow and very friendly neighbour, Colonel Macleod,
a bachelor, who having fallen in love with a very beautiful spot, in the valley of the Lowther,
built an ugly brick house, three stories high, because, as he said, he was so greedy of the
view, forgetful apparently that he was providing it mainly for his maid servants. Then there
was the old maiden lady, with a name that might have been found in north-country annals at
almost any date during the last seven hundred years, who mildly and maternally corrected my
sister at table for speaking of vol-au-vent, telling her that the correct expression was voulez-vous!
My sister always adopted the old lady's correction in future, at least when addressing her.

Then there were two pretty girls, Margaret and Charlotte Story, the nieces of old De Whelpdale,
the lord of the manor. I think he and Mrs. De Whelpdale never left their room, for I do not
remember to have ever seen either of them; nor do I remember that I at all resented their absence
from the drawing-room when I used to call at the manor house. One of the girls was understood
to be engaged to be married to a far distant lieutenant, of whom Penrith knew nothing, which
circumstance gave rise to sundry ingenious conceits in the acrostic line, based on allusions
to "his story" and "mystery!" I wonder whether Charlotte is alive! If she is, and should see
this page, she will remember! It was for her sake that I deserted, or tried to desert, Sir
George's port, as related above.

We left Penrith on that occasion without having formed any decided intention of establishing
ourselves there, and returned to London towards the end of August, 1839. During the next two
months I was hard at work completing the MS. of my volumes on Brittany. And in November of
the same year, after that long fast from all journeying, my mother and I left London for a
second visit to Paris. But we did not on this occasion travel together.

I left London some days earlier than she did, and travelled by Ostend, Cologne, and Mannheim,
my principal object being to visit my old friend, Mrs. Fauche, who was living at the latter
place. I passed three or four very pleasant days there, including, as I find by my diary, sundry
agreeable jaunts to Heidelberg, Carlsruhe, &c. My mother and I had arranged to meet at Paris
on the 4th of December, and at that date I punctually turned up there.

I think that I saw Paris and the Parisians much more satisfactorily on this occasion than during
my first visit; and I suspect that some of the recollections recorded in these pages as connected
with my first visit to Paris, belong really to this second stay there, especially I think that
this must have been the case with regard to my acquaintance with Chateaubriand, though I certainly
was introduced to him at the earlier period, for I find the record of much talk with him about
Brittany, which was a specially welcome subject to him.

It was during this second visit that I became acquainted with Henry Bulwer, afterwards Lord
Dalling, and at that time first secretary of the British legation. My visits were generally,
perhaps always, paid to him when he was in bed, where he was lying confined by, if I remember
rightly, a broken leg, I used to find his bed covered with papers and blue-books, and the like.
And I was told that the whole, or at all events the more important part of the business of
the embassy was done by him as he lay there on the bed, which must have been for many a long
hour a bed of suffering.

Despite certain affectations--which were so palpably affectations, and scarcely pretended to
be aught else, that there was little or nothing annoying or offensive in them--he was a very
agreeable man, and was unquestionably a very brilliant one. He came to dine with me, I remember,
many years afterwards at my house in Florence, when he insisted (the dining-room being on the
first floor) on being carried up stairs, as we thought at the time very unnecessarily. But
for aught I know such suspicion may have wronged him. At all events his disability, whatever
it may have been, did not prevent him from making himself very agreeable.

One of our guests upon that same occasion (I must drag the mention of the fact in head and
shoulders here, or else I shall forget it), was that extraordinary man, Baron Ward, who was,
or perhaps I ought to say at that time had been, prime minister and general administrator to
the Duke of Lucca. Ward had been originally brought from Yorkshire to be an assistant in the
ducal stables. There, doubtless because he knew more about the business than anybody else concerned
with it, he soon became chief. In that capacity he made himself so acceptable to the Duke,
that he was taken from the stables to be his highness's personal attendant. His excellence
in that position soon enlarged his duties to those of controller of the whole ducal household.
And thence, by degrees that were more imperceptible in the case of such a government than they
could have been in a larger and more regularly administered state, Ward became the recognised,
and nearly all-powerful head, manager, and ruler of the little Duchy of Lucca. And I believe
the strange promotion was much for the advantage of the Duke and of the Duke's subjects. Ward,
I take it, never robbed him or any one else. And this eccentric specialty, the Duke, though
he was no Solomon, had the wit to discover. In his cups the ex-groom, ex-valet, was not reticent
about his sovereign master, and his talk was not altogether of an edifying nature. One sally
sticks in my memory. "Ah, yes! He was a grand favourite with the women. But I have had the
grooming of him; and it was a wuss job than ever grooming his hosses was!"

Ward got very drunk that night, I remember, and we deemed it fortunate that our diplomatist
guest had departed before the outward signs of his condition became manifest.

Henry Bulwer, by mere circumstance of synchronism, has suggested the remembrance of Ward, Ward
has called up the Duke of Lucca, and he brings with him a host of Baths of Lucca reminiscences
respecting his Serene Highness and others. But all these must be left to find their places,
if anywhere, when I come to them later on, or we shall never get back to Paris.

It was on this our second visit to Lutetia Parisiorum that my mother and I made acquaintance
with a very specially charming family of the name of D'Henin. The family circle consisted of
General le Vicomte D'Henin, his English wife, and their daughter. The general was a delightful
old man, more like an English general officer than any other Frenchman I ever met. Madame D'Henin
was like an Englishwoman not unaccustomed to courts and wholly unspoiled by them. Mademoiselle
D'Henin, very pretty, united the qualities of a denizen of the inmost circles of the fashionable
world with those of a really serious student, to a degree I have never seen equalled. They
were great friends of the Bishop of London, and Mademoiselle D'Henin used to correspond with
him. She was earnestly religious, and I remember her telling me of a démêlé she had had with
her confessor. She had told him in confession that she was in the habit of reading the English
Bible. He strongly objected, and at last told her that he could not give her absolution unless
she promised to discontinue the practice. She told him that rather than do so, she would take
what would be to her the painful step of declaring herself a Protestant, whereupon he undertook
to obtain a special permission for her to read the English Bible. Whether he did really take
any such measures I don't know, and I fancy she never knew; but the upshot was that she continued
to read the heretical book, and nothing more was ever said of refusing her absolution.

I have a large bundle of letters from this highly accomplished young lady to my mother. Many
passages of them would be interesting and valuable to an historian of the reign of Louis Philippe.
She writes at great length, and her standpoint is the very centre of the monarchical side of
the French political world of that day. But as I am not writing a history of the reign of Louis
Philippe, I must content myself with extracting two or three suggestive notices.

In a letter dated from Paris, 19th July, 1840, she writes:--"You shew much hospitality towards
your royal guests. But I assure you it will not in this instance be taken as an homage to superior
merit--words which I have heard frequently applied here to John Bull's frenzy about Soult,
and to the hospitality of the English towards the Duc de N[emours], When I told him how much
I should like to be in his place (i.e., about to go to England), he protested that he would
change places with no one, 'quand il s'agissait d'aller dans un aussi delicieux pays, que cette
belle Angleterre, que vous avez si bonne raison d'aimer et d'admirer.'"

On the 29th of August in the same year she writes at great length of the indignation and fury
produced in Paris by the announcement of the Quadruple Alliance. She is immensely impressed
by the fact that "people gathered in the streets and discussed the question in the open air."
"Ireland, Poland, and Italy are to rise to the cry of Liberty." But she goes on to say, "Small
causes produce great effects. Much of this warlike disposition has arisen from the fact of
Thiers having bought a magnificent horse to ride beside the King at the late review." She proceeds
to ridicule the minister in a tone very naturally suggested by the personal appearance of the
little great man under such circumstances, which no doubt furnished Paris with much fun. But
she goes on to suggest that the personal vanity which made the prospect of such a public appearance
alluring to him was reinforced by "certain other secondary but still important considerations
of a different nature, looking to the results which might follow from the exhibition of a war
policy. This desirable end being attained beyond even the most sanguine hopes, the martial
fever seems on the decline."

Now all this gossip may be accepted as evidencing the tone prevailing in the very inmost circles
of the citizen king's friends and surroundings, and as such is curious.

Writing on the 8th of October in the same year, after speaking at great length of Madame Laffarge,
and of the extraordinary interest her trial excited, dividing all Paris into Laffargists and
anti-Laffargists, and almost superseding war as a general topic of conversation, she passes
to the then burning subject of the fortification of Paris, and writes as follows--curiously
enough, considering the date of her letter:--

"Louis Philippe, whose favourite hobby it has ever been, from the idea that it makes him master
of Paris, lays the first stone to-day. Some people consider it the first stone of the mausoleum
of his dynasty. I sincerely hope not; for everything that can be called lady or gentleman runs
a good chance of forming part of the funeral pile. The political madness which has taken possession
of the public mind is fearful. Foreign or civil war! Such is the alternative. Thiers, who governs
the masses, flatters them by promises of war and conquest. The Marsellaise, so lately a sign
of rebellion, is sung openly in the theatres; the soldiers under arms sing it in chorus. The
Guarde Nationale urges the King to declare war. He has resisted it with all his power, but
has now, they say, given way, and has given Thiers carte blanche. He is in fact entirely under
his control. The Chambers are not consulted. Thiers is our absolute sovereign. We call ourselves
a free people. We have beheaded one monarch, exiled three generations of kings merely to have
a dictator, 'mal né, mal fait, et mal élevé.' There has been a rumour of a change of ministry,
but no one believes it. The overthrow of Thiers would be the signal for a revolution, and the
fortifications are not yet completed to master it. May not all these armaments be the precursors
of some coup d'état? A general gloom is over all around us. All the faces are long; all the
conversations are sad!"

This may be accepted as a thoroughly accurate and trustworthy representation of the then state
of feeling and opinion among the friends of Louis Philippe's Government, whether Parceque Bourbon
or Quoique Bourbon, and as such is valuable. It is curious too, to find a staunch friend of
the existing government, who may be said to have been even intimate with the younger members
of the royal family, speaking of the Prime Minister with the detestation which these letters
again and again express for Thiers.

In a letter of the 19th November, 1840, the writer describes at great length the recent opening
of the Chamber by the King. She enlarges on the intensity of the anxiety felt for the tenor
of the King's speech, which was supposed to be the announcement of war or peace; and describes
the deep emotion, with which Louis Philippe, declaring his hope that peace might yet be preserved,
called upon the nation to assist him in the effort to maintain it; and expresses the scorn
and loathing with which she overheard one republican deputy say to another as the King spoke,
"Voyez donc ce Robert Macaire, comme il fait semblant d'avoir du coeur!"

A letter of the 14th March, 1842, is written in better spirits and a lighter tone. Speaking
of the prevalent hostile feeling towards England the writer wishes that her countrymen would
remember Lamartine's observation that "ce patriotisme coûte peu! Il suffit d'ignorer, d'injurier
et de hair." She tells her correspondent that "if Lord Cowley has much to do to establish the
exact line between Lord Aberdeen's observations and objections, Lady Cowley has no less difficulty
in keeping a nice balance between dignity and popularity," as "the Embassy is besieged by all
sets and all parties; the tag and rag, because pushing is a part of their nature; the juste
milieu [how the very phrase recalls a whole forgotten world!] because they consider the English
Embassy as their property; the noble Faubourg because they are tired of sulking, and would
not object to treating Lady Cowley as they treated Colonel Thorn,[1] viz., establishing their
quarters at the 'Cowley Arms,' as they did at the 'Thorn's Head,' and inviting their friends
on the recognised principle, 'C'est moi qui invite, et Monsieur qui paie'"

[Footnote 1: Colonel Thorn was an American of fabulous wealth, who was for a season or two
very notorious in Paris. He was the hero of the often-told story of the two drives to Longchamps
the same day; first with one gorgeous equipment of liveries, and a second time with other and
more resplendently clothed retainers.]

Then follows an account of a fancy bal monstre at the Tuileries, which might have turned out,
says the writer, to deserve that title in another sense. It was believed that a plot had been
formed for the assassination of the King, at the moment, when, according to his invariable
custom, he took his stand at the door of the supper-room to receive the ladies there. Four
thousand five hundred tickets had been issued and a certain number of these, still blank, had
disappeared. That was certain. And it was also certain that the King did not go to the door
of the supper-room as usual. But the writer remarks that the tickets may have been stolen by,
or for, people who could not obtain them legitimately. But the instantly conceived suspicion
of a plot is illustrative of the conditions of feeling and opinions in Paris at the time.

"For my part," continues Mademoiselle D'Henin, "I never enjoyed a ball so much; perhaps because
I did not expect to be amused; perhaps because all the royal family, the Jockey Club, and the
fastidious Frenchwomen congratulated me upon my toilet, and voted it one of the handsomest
there. They said the most becoming (but that was de l'eau bénite de Cour); perhaps it was because
the Dukes of Orleans, Nemours, and Aumale, who never dance, and did so very little that evening,
all three honoured me with a quadrille. You see I expose to you all the very linings of my
heart I dissect it and exhibit all the vanity it contains. But you will excuse me when I tell
you of a compliment that might have turned a wiser head than mine. The fame of my huntress's
costume (Mademoiselle D'Henin was in those days the very beau-idéal of a Diana!) was such that
it reached the ears of the wife of our butcher, who sent to beg that I would lend it to her
to copy, as she was going to a fancy ball!"

A letter of the 8th of August, 1842, written from Fulham Palace, contains some interesting
notices of the grief and desolation caused by the sad death of the Duke of Orleans.

"Was there ever a more afflicting calamity!" she writes. "When last I wrote his name in a letter
to you, it was to describe him as the admired of all beholders, the hero of the féte, the pride
and honour of France, and now what remains of him is in his grave! The affliction of his family
baffles all description. I receive the most touching accounts from Paris. Some ladies about
the Court write to me that nothing can equal their grief. As long as the coffin remained in
the chapel at Neuilly, the members of the family were incessantly kneeling by the side of it,
praying and weeping. The King so far mastered his feelings, that whenever he had official duties
to perform, he was sufficiently composed to perform son métier de Roi. But when the painful
task was done he would rush to the chapel, and weep over the dead body of his son, till the
whole palace rang with his cries and lamentations. When the body was removed from Neuilly to
Notre Dame, the scene at Neuilly was truly heartrending. My father has seen the King and the
Princes several times since the catastrophe, and he says it has done the work of years on their
personal appearance, The Due de Nemours has neither eaten nor slept since his brother died,
and looks as if walking out of his grave. Mamma wrote him a few lines of condolence, which
he answered by a most affecting note. Papa was summoned to attend the King to the House, as
Grand Officier, and says he never witnessed such a scene. Even the opposition shed their crocodile
tears. Placed immediately near the King on the steps of the throne, he saw the struggle between
kingly decorum and fatherly affliction. Nature had the victory. Three times the King attempted
to speak, three times he was obliged to stop, and at last burst into a flood of tears. The
contagion gained all around him. And it was only interrupted by sobs that he could proceed.
And it is in the face of this despair, when the body of the prince is scarcely cold, that that
horrid Thiers and his associates begin afresh their infernal manoeuvres!"

A letter of the 3rd April, 1842, contains among a quantity of the gossip of the day an odd
story, which, the writer says, "is putting Rome in a ferment, and the clergy in raptures."
I think I remember that it made a considerable stir in ecclesiastic circles at the time. A
certain M. Ratisbonne, a Jew, it seems entered a church in Rome (the writer does not say so,
but if I remember rightly, it was the "Gesu"), with a friend, a M. de Bussières, who had some
business to transact in the sacristy. The Jew, who professed complete infidelity, meantime
was looking at the pictures. But M. de Bussières, when his business was done, found him prostrate
on the pavement in front of a picture of the Madonna. The Jew on coming to himself declared
that the Virgin had stepped from her frame, and addressed him, with the result, as he said,
that having fallen to the ground an infidel, he rose a convinced Christian! Mademoiselle D'Henin
writes in a tone which indicates small belief in the miracle, but seems to accept as certain
the further facts, that the convert gave all he possessed to the Church and became a monk.

I have recently--even while transcribing these extracts from her letters--heard of the death,
within the last few years, of the writer of them. She died in England, I am told, and unmarried.
Her sympathies and affections were always strongly turned to her mother's country, as indeed
may be in some degree inferred from even those passages of her letters which have been given.
And I can well conceive that the events which, each more disastrous than its predecessor, followed
in France shortly after the date of the last of them, may have rendered, especially after the
death of her parents, a life in France distasteful to her. But I, and, I think, my mother also,
had entirely lost sight of her for very many years. Had I imagined that she was living in England,
I should undoubtedly have endeavoured to see her.

I have known many women, denizens of le grand monde, who have adorned it with equally brilliant
talents, equally captivating beauty, equally sparkling wit and vivacity of intelligence. And
I have known many, denizens of the studious and the book world, gifted with larger powers of
intellect, and more richly dowered with the results of thought and study But I do not think
that I ever met with one who possessed in so large a degree the choice product resulting from
conversance with both these worlds. She was in truth a very brilliant creature.

Madame D'Henin I remember made us laugh heartily one evening by telling us the following anecdote.
At one of those remarkable omnium-gatherum receptions at the Tuileries, of which I have spoken
in a former chapter, she heard an American lady, to whom Louis Philippe was talking of his
American recollections and of various persons he had known there, say to him, "Oh, sire, they
all retain the most lively recollections of your majesty's sojourn among them, and wish nothing
more than that you should return among them again!" The Duke of Orleans, who was standing behind
the King, fairly burst into a guffaw.

There was a story current in Rome, in the days of Pius the Ninth, which may be coupled with
this as a good pendant. His Holiness, when he had occupied the papal throne for a period considerably
exceeding the legendary twenty-five years of St. Peter, was one day very affably asking an
Englishman, who had been presented to him, whether he had seen everything in Rome most calculated
to interest a stranger, and was answered; "Yes indeed, your Holiness, I think almost everything,
except one which I confess I have been particularly anxious to witness--a conclave!"

Here are a few jottings at random from my diary, which may still have some little interest.

"Madame Le Roi, a daughter of General Hoche, told me (22nd January, 1840), that as she was
driving on the boulevard a day or two ago, a sou piece was thrown with great violence at the
window of her carriage, smashing it to pieces. This, she said, was because her family arms
were emblazoned on the panel. Most of the carriages in Paris, she said, had no arms on them
for fear of similar attacks."

Then we were active frequenters of the theatres. We go, I find, to the Français, to see Mars,
then sixty years old, in Les Dehors Trompeurs and in the Fausses Confidences; to the opera
to hear Robert le Diable and Lucia di Lammermuir, with Persiani, Tamburini, and Rubini; and
the following night to the Français again, to see Rachel in Cinna.

I thought her personally, I observe, very attractive. But that, and sundry other subsequent
experiences, left me with the impression that she was truly very powerful in the representation
of scorn, indignation, hatred, and all the sterner and less amiable passions of the soul, but
failed painfully when her rôle required the exhibition of tenderness or any of the gentler
emotions. These were my impressions when she was young and I was comparatively so. But when,
many years afterwards, I saw her repeatedly in Italy, they were not, I think, much modified.

The frequent occasions on which subsequently I saw Ristori produced an impression on me very
much the reverse. I remember thinking Ristori's "Mirra" too good, so terribly true as to be
almost too painful for the theatre. I thought Rachel's "Marie Stuart" upon the whole her finest
performance, though "Adrienne" ran it hard.

Persiani, I note, supported by Lablache and Rubini, had a most triumphant reception in Inez
de Castro, while Albertazzi was very coldly received in Blanche de Castille. Grisi in Norma
was "superb." "Persiani and P. Garcia sang a duet from Tancredi; it was divine! I think I like
Garcia's voice better than any of them. Nor could I think her ugly, as it is the fashion to
call her, though it must be admitted that her mouth and teeth are alarming."

Then there were brilliant receptions at the English Embassy (Lord Granville) and at the Austrian
Embassy (Comte d'Appony). My diary remarks that stars and gold lace and ribbons of all the
Orders in Christendom were more abundant at the latter, but female beauty at the former. I
remember much admiring that of Lady Honoria Cadogan, and that of a very remarkably lovely Visconti
girl, a younger sister of the Princess Belgiojoso. But despite this perfect beauty, my diary
notes, that it was "curious to observe the unmistakable superiority as a human being of the
young English patrician." I remember that the "sit-down" suppers at the Austrian Embassy--a
separate little table for every two, three, or four guests--were remarked on as a novelty (and
applauded) by the Parisians.

Then at Miss Clarke's (afterwards Madame Mohl) I find Fauriel, "the first Provençal scholar
in Europe," delightful, and am disgusted with Merimée, because he manifested self-sufficiency,
as it seemed to my youthful criticism, by pooh-poohing the probability of the temple at Lanleff
in Brittany having been aught else than a church of the Templars.

Then Arago reads an Eloge on "old Ampère," of which I only remark that it lasted two hours
and a half. Then there was a dinner at Dr. Gilchrist's whose widow our old friend Pepe, who
for many years had always called her "Madame Ghee-cree," subsequently married. My notes, written
the same evening, remind me that "I did not much like the radical old Doctor (his wife was
an old acquaintance, but I had never seen him before); he is eighty, and ought to know better.
Old Nymzevitch (I am not sure of the spelling), the ex-Chancellor of Poland, dined with us.
He is eighty-four. When he said that he had conversed with the Duc de Richelieu, I started
as if he had announced himself as the Wandering Jew. But, in fact, he had had, when a young
man, an interview with the Duc, then ninety. He was, Nymzevitch told me, dreadfully emaciated,
but dressed very splendidly in a purple coat all bedizened with silver lace. He received me,
said the old ex-Chancellor, with much affable dignity."'

Then comes a breakfast with Pepe, at which I met the President Thibeaudeau, "a grey old man
who makes a point of saying rude, coarse, and disagreeable things, which his friends call dry
humour. He found fault with everything at the breakfast table."

Then a visit to the Chamber (where I heard Soult, Dupin, and Teste speak, and thought it "a
terrible bear-garden)" is followed by attendance at a sermon by Athanase Coquerel, the Protestant
preacher whose reputation in the Parisian beau monde was great in those days. He was, says
my diary, "exceedingly eloquent, but I did not like his sermon;" for which dislike my notes
proceed to give the reasons, which I spare the, I hope grateful, reader. Then I went to hear
Bishop Luscombe at the Ambassador's chapel, and listened to "a very stupid sermon." I seem,
somewhat to my surprise as I read the records of it, to have had a pronounced taste for sermons
in those days, which I fear I have somehow outgrown. But then I have been very deaf during
my later decades.

Bishop Luscombe may perhaps however be made more amusing to the reader than he was to me in
the Embassy chapel by the following fragment of his experience. The Bishop arrived one day
at Paddington, and could not find his luggage. He called a porter to find it for him, telling
him the name to be read on the articles. The man, very busy with other people, answered hurriedly,
"You must go to hell for your luggage." Now, Luscombe, who was a somewhat pompous and very
bishopy man, was dreadfully shocked, and felt, as he said, as if the porter had struck him
in the face. In extreme indignation he demanded where he could speak with any of the authorities,
and was told that "the Board" was then sitting up stairs. So to the boardroom the Bishop went
straightway, and announcing himself, made his complaint. The chairman, professing his regret
that such offence should have been given, said he feared the man must have been drunk, but
that he should be immediately summoned to give an account of his conduct. So the porter in
great trepidation appeared in a few minutes before the august tribunal of "the Board."

"Well, sir," said he in reply to the chairman's indignant questioning, "what could I do? I
was werry busy at the time. So when the gentleman says as his name was Luscombe, I could do
no better than tell him to go to h'ell for his luggage, and he'd have found it there all right!"

"Oh! I see," said the chairman, "it is a case of misplaced aspirate! We have spaces on the
wall marked with the letters of the alphabet, and you would have found your luggage at the
letter L. You will see that the man meant no offence. I am sorry you should have been so scandalised,
but though we succeed, I hope, in making our porters civil to our customers, it would be hopeless,
I fear, to attempt to make them say L correctly." Solvuntur risu tabulae.

I find chronicled a long talk with Mohl one evening at Madame Récamier's. The room was very
full of notable people of all sorts, and the tide of chattering was running very strong. "How
can anything last long in France?" said he, in reply to my having said (in answer to his assertion
that Cousin's philosophy had gone by) that it had been somewhat short-lived. "Reputations are
made and pass away. It is impossible that they should endure. It is in such places as this
that they are destroyed. The friction is prodigious!"

We then began to talk of the state of religion in France. He said that among a large set, religion
was now à la mode. But he did not suppose that many of the fine folks who patronised it had
much belief in it. The clergy of France were, he said, almost invariably very illiterate. Guizot,
I remembered, calls them in his History of Civilisation doctes et crudits, but I abstained
from quoting him. Mohl went on to tell me a story of a newspaper that had been about to be
established, called Le Democrat. The shareholders met, when it appeared that one party wished
to make it a Roman Catholic, and the other an atheist organ. Whereupon the existence of God
was put to the vote and carried by a majority of one, at which the atheist party were so disgusted
that they seceded in a body.

I got to like Mohl much, and had more conversation, I think, with him than with any other of
the numerous men of note with whom I became more or less acquainted. On another occasion, when
I found him in his cabinet, walled up as usual among his books, our talk fell on his great
work, the edition of the oriental MSS. in the Bibliothèque Royale, which was to be completed
in ten folio volumes, the first of which, just out, he was showing me. He complained of the
extreme slowness of the Government presses in getting on with the work. This he attributed
to the absurd costliness, as he considered it, of the style in which the work was brought out.
The cost of producing that first volume he told me had been over 1,600l. sterling. It was to
be sold at a little less than a hundred francs. Something was said (by me, I think) of the
possibility of obtaining assistance from the King, who was generally supposed to be immensely
wealthy. Mohl said that he did not believe Louis Philippe to be nearly so rich a man as he
was supposed to be. He had spent, he said, enormous sums on the châteaux he had restored, and
was affirmed by those who had the means of knowing the fact, to be at that time twelve millions
of francs in debt.

My liking for Mohl seems to have been fully justified by the estimation he was generally held
in. I find in a recently published volume by Kathleen O'Meara on the life of my old friend,
Miss Clarke, who afterwards became his wife, the following passage quoted from Sainte-Beuve,
who describes him as "a man who was the very embodiment of learning and of inquiry, an oriental
savant--more than a savant--a sage, with a mind clear, loyal, and vast; a German mind passed
through an English filter, a cloudless, unruffled mirror, open and limpid; of pure and frank
morality; early disenchanted with all things; with a grain of irony devoid of all bitterness,
the laugh of a child under a bald head; a Goethe-like intelligence, but free from all prejudice."
"A charming and spirituelle Frenchwoman," Miss O'Meara goes on to say, "said of Julius Mohl
that Nature in forming his character had skimmed the cream of the three nationalities to which
he belonged by birth, by adoption and by marriage, making him deep as a German, spirituel as
a Frenchman, and loyal as an Englishman."

I may insert here the following short note from Madame Mohl, because the manner of it is very
characteristic of her. It is, as was usual with her, undated.

       *       *       *       *       *

"MY DEAR MR. TROLLOPE,--By accident I have just learned that you are in London. If I could
see you and talk over my dear old friend (Madame Récamier) I should be so much obliged and
so glad. I live 68 Oxford Terrace, Hyde Park. If you would write me a note to say when I should
be at home for the purpose. But if you can't, I am generally, not always, found after four.
But if you could come on the 10th or 12th after nine we have a party. I am living at Mrs. Schwabe's
just now till 16th this month. Pray write me a note, even If you can't come.

"Yours ever,

"MARY MOHL."

       *       *       *       *       *

All the capital letters in the above transcript, except those in her name are mine, she uses
none. The note is written in headlong hurry.

Mignet, whom I met at the house of Thiers, I liked too, but Mohl was my favourite.

It was all very amusing, with as much excitement and interest of all kinds crammed into a few
weeks as might have lasted one for a twelvemonth. And I liked it better than teaching Latin
to the youth of Birmingham. But it would seem that there was something that I liked better
still. For on March 30th, leaving my mother in the full swing of the Parisian gaieties, I bade
adieu to them all and once again "took to the road," bound on an excursion through Central France.

CHAPTER IV.

My journey through central France took me by Chartres, Orleans, down the Loire to Nantes, then
through La Vendée to Fontenay, Niort, Poitiers, Saintes, Rochefort, La Rochelle, Bordeaux,
Angouleme, Limoges, and thence back to Paris. On looking at the book for the first time since
I read the proof-sheets I find it amusing. The fault of it, as an account of the district traversed,
is, that it treats of the localities described on a scale that would have needed twenty volumes,
instead of two, to complete the story of my tour in the same proportion. I do not remember
that any of my critics noted this fault. Perhaps they feared that on the first suggestion of
such an idea I should have set about mending the difficulty by the production of a score of
other volumes on the subject! I could easily have done so. I was in no danger of incurring
the anathema launched by Sterne--I think it was Sterne--against the man who went from Dan to
Beersheba and found all barren. I found matter of interest everywhere, and could have gone
on doing so, as it seemed to me in those days, for ever.

The part of France I visited is not much betravelled by Englishmen, and the general idea is
that it is not an interesting section of the country. I thought, and still think, otherwise.
My notion is, that if a line were drawn through France from Calais to the centre of the Pyrenean
chain, by far the greater part of the prettiest country and most interesting populations, as
well as places, would be found to the westward of it. I do not think that my bill of fare excited
any great interest in the reading world. But I suppose that I contrived to interest a portion
of it; for the book was fairly successful.

I wrote a book in many respects of the same kind many years subsequently, giving an account
of a journey through certain little-visited districts of central Italy, under the title of
a Lenten Journey. It is not, I think, so good a book as my French journeys furnished, mainly
to my mind because it was in one small volume instead of two big ones, and both for want of
space and want of time was done hurriedly and too compendiously. The true motto for the writer
of such a book is nihil a me alienum puto, whether humanum or otherwise. My own opinion is,
to make a perfectly clean breast of it, that I could now write a fairly amusing book on a journey
from Tyburn turnpike to Stoke Pogis. But then such books should be addressed to readers who
are not in such a tearing hurry as the unhappy world is in these latter days.

It would seem that I found my two octavo volumes did not afford me nearly enough space to say
my say respecting the country traversed, for they are brought to an end somewhat abruptly by
a hurried return from Limoges to Paris; whereas my ramble was much more extended, including
both the upper and lower provinces of Auvergne and the whole of the Bourbonnais. My voluminous
notes of the whole of these wanderings are now before me. But I will let my readers off easy,
recording only that I walked from Murat to St. Flour, a distance of fifteen miles, in five
minutes under three hours. Not bad! My diary notes that it was frequently very difficult to
find my way in walking about Auvergne, from the paucity of people I could find who could speak
French, the langue du pays being as unintelligible as Choctaw. This would hardly be the case now.

I don't know whether a knot of leading tradesmen at Bordeaux could now be found to talk, as
did such a party with whom I got into conversation in that year, 1840. It was explained to
me that England, as was well known, had liberated her slaves in the West Indies perfectly well
knowing that the colonies would be absolutely ruined by the measure, but expecting to be amply
compensated by the ruin of the French colonies, which would result from the example, and the
consequent extension of trade with the East Indies, from which France would be compelled to
purchase all the articles her own colonies now supplied her with. One of these individuals
told me and the rest of his audience, that he had the means of knowing that the interest of
the English national debt was paid every year by fresh borrowing, and that bankruptcy and absolute
smash must occur within a few years. "Ah!" said a much older, grey-headed man, who had been
listening sitting with his hands reposing on his walking-stick before him, and who spoke with
a sort of patient, long-expecting hope and a deep sigh, "ah! we have been looking for that
many a year; but I am beginning to doubt whether I shall live to see it." My assurances that
matters were not altogether so bad as they supposed in England of course met with little credence.
Still, they listened to me, and did not show angry signs of a consciousness that I was audaciously
befooling them, till the talk having veered to London, I ventured to assure them that London
was not surrounded by any octroi boundary, and that no impost of that nature was levied there.[1]
Then in truth I might as well have assured them that London streets were literally paved with gold.

[Footnote 1: It may possibly be necessary to tell untravelled Englishmen that the octroi, universal
on the Continent, is an impost levied on all articles of consumption at the gates of a town.]

On the 30th of May, 1840, I returned with my mother from Paris to her house in York Street.
Life had been very pleasant there to her I believe, and certainly to me during those periods
of it which my inborn love of rambling allowed me to pass there. But in the following June
it was determined that the house in York Street should be given up. Probably the causa causans
of this determination was the fact of my sister's removal to far Penrith. But I think too,
that there was a certain unavowed feeling, that we had eaten up London, and should enjoy a
move to new pastures.

I remember well a certain morning in York Street when we--my mother and I--held a solemn audit
of accounts. It was found that during her residence in York Street she had spent a good deal
more than she had supposed. She had entertained a good deal, giving frequent "little dinners."
But dinners, however little, are apt in London to leave tradesmen's bills not altogether small
in proportion to their littleness. "The fact is," said my mother, "that potatoes have been
quite exceptionally dear." For a very long series of years she never heard the last of those
exceptional potatoes. But despite the alarming deficit caused by those unfortunate vegetables,
I do not think the abandonment of the establishment in York Street was caused by financial
considerations. She was earning in those years large sums of money--quite as large as any she
had been spending--and might have continued in London had she been so minded.

No doubt I had much to do with the determination we came to. But for my part, if it had at
that time been proposed to me, that our establishment should be reduced to a couple of trunks,
and all our worldly possessions to the contents of them, with an opening vista of carriages,
diligences, and ships ad libitum in prospect, I should have jumped at the idea. A caravan,
which in addition to shirts and stockings could have carried about one's books and writing
tackle would have seemed the summum bonum of human felicity.

So we turned our backs on London without a thought of regret and once again "took the road;"
but this time separately, my mother going to my sister at Penrith and I to pass the summer
months in wanderings in Picardy, Lorraine, and French Flanders, and the ensuing winter in Paris.

I hardly know which was the pleasanter time. By this time I was no stranger to Paris, and had
many friends there. It was my first experiment of living there as a bachelor, as I was going
to say, but I mean "on my own hook," and left altogether to my own devices. I found of course
that my then experiences differed considerably from those acquired when living en famille.
But I am disposed to think that the tolerably intimate knowledge I flatter myself I possessed
of the Paris and Parisians of Louis Philippe's time was mainly the result of this second residence.
I remember among a host of things indicating the extent of the difference between those days
and these, that I lived in a very good apartment, au troisième, in one of the streets immediately
behind the best part of the Rue de Rivoli for one hundred francs a month! This price included
all service (save of course a tip to the porter), and the preparation of my coffee for breakfast
if I needed it. For dinner, or any other meal, I had to go out.

"Society" lived in Paris in those days--not unreasonably as the result soon showed--in perpetual
fear of being knocked all to pieces by an outbreak of revolution, though of course nobody said
so. But I lived mainly (though not entirely) among the bien pensants people, who looked on
all anti-governmental manifestations with horror. Perhaps the restless discontent which destroyed
Louis Philippe's government is the most disheartening circumstance in the whole course of recent
French history. That the rule of Charles Dix should have occasioned revolt may be regrettable,
but is not a matter for surprise. But that of Louis Philippe was not a stagnant or retrogressive
régime. "La carrière" was very undeniably open to talent and merit of every description. Material
well-being was on the increase. And the door was not shut against any political change which
even very advanced Liberalism, of the kind consistent with order, might have aspired to. But
the Liberalism which moved France was not of that kind.

One of my most charming friends of those days, Rosa Stewart, who afterwards became and was
well known to literature as Madame Blaze de Bury, was both too clever and too shrewd an observer,
as well as, to me at least, too frank to pretend any of the assurance which was then de mode.
She saw what was coming, and was fully persuaded that it must come. I hope that her eye may
rest on this testimony to her perspicacity, though I know not whether she still graces this
planet with her very pleasing presence. For as, alas! in so many scores of other instances,
our lives have drifted apart, and it is many years since I have heard of her.

One excursion I specially remember in connection with that autumn was partly, I think, a pedestrian
one, to Amiens and Beauvais, made in company with the W---- A----, of whom my brother speaks
in his autobiography; which I mention chiefly for the sake of recording my testimony to the
exactitude of his description of that very singular individual. If it had not been for the
continual carefulness necessitated by the difficulty of avoiding all cause of quarrel, I should
say that he was about the pleasantest travelling companion I have ever known.

In the beginning of April, 1841, after a little episode of spring wandering in the Tyrol and
Bavaria (in the course of which I met my mother at the château of her very old friend the Baroness
de Zandt, who has been mentioned before, and was now living somewhat solitarily in her huge
house in its huge park near Bamberg), my mother and I started for Italy. Neither of us had
at that time conceived the idea of making a home there. The object of the journey, which had
been long contemplated by my mother, was the writing of a book on Italy, as she had already
done on Paris and on Vienna.

Our journey was a prosperous one in all respects, and our flying visit to Italy was very pleasant.
My mother's book was duly written, and published by Mr. Bentley in 1842. But the Visit to Italy,
as the work was entitled (with justly less pretence than the titles of either of its predecessors
had put forward), was in truth all too short. And I find that almost all of the huge mass of
varied recollections which are connected in my mind with Italy and Italian people and things
belong to my second "visit" of nearly half a century's duration!

We made, however, several pleasant acquaintances and some fast friends, principally at Florence,
and thus paved the way, although little intending it at the time, for our return thither.

Our visit was rendered shorter than it would probably otherwise have been by my mother's strong
desire to be with my sister, who was expecting the birth of her first child at Penrith. And
for this purpose we left Rome in February, 1842, in very severe weather. We crossed the Mont
Cenis in sledges--which to me was a very acceptable experience, but to my mother was one, which
nothing could have induced her to face, save the determination not to fail her child at her need.

How well I remember hearing as I sat in the banquette of the diligence which was just leaving
Susa for its climb up the mountain amid the snow, then rapidly falling, the driver of the descending
diligence, which had accomplished its work and was just about entering the haven of Susa, sing
out to our driver--"Vous allez vous amuser joliment là haut, croyez moi!"

We did not, however, change the diligence for the sledges till we came to the descent on the
northern side. But as we made our slow way to the top our vehicle was supported from time to
time on either side by twelve strapping fellows, who put their shoulders to it.

I appreciated during that journey, though I was glad to see the mountain in its winter dress,
the recommendation not to let your flight be in the winter.

CHAPTER V.

I accompanied my mother to Penrith, and forthwith devoted myself heart and body to the preparation
of our new house, and the beautifying of the very pretty paddock in which it was situated.
I put in some hundreds of trees and shrubs with my own hands, which prospered marvellously,
and have become, I have been told, most luxuriant shrubberies. I was bent on building a cloistered
walk along the entire top of the field, which would have afforded a charming ambulatory sheltered
from the north winds and from the rain, and would have commanded the most lovely views, while
the pillars supporting the roof would have presented admirable places for a world of flowering
climbing plants. And doubtless I should have achieved it, had we remained there. But it would
have run into too much money to be undertaken immediately,--fortunately; for, inasmuch as there
was nothing of the sort in all that country side, no human being would have given a stiver
more for the house when it came to be sold, and the next owner would probably have pulled it
down. There was no authority for such a thing. Had it been suffered to remain it would probably
have been called "Trollope's folly!"

Subsequently, but not immediately after we left it, the place--oddly enough I forget the name
we gave it--became the property and the residence of my brother-in-law.

Of my life at Penrith I need add nothing to the jottings I have already placed before the reader
on the occasion of my first visit to that place.

My brother, already a very different man from what he had been in London, came from his Irish
district to visit us there; and I returned with him to Ireland, to his head-quarters at Banagher
on the Shannon. Neither of this journey need I say much. For to all who know anything of Ireland
at the present day--and who does not? worse luck!--anything I might write would seem as nihil
ad rem, as if I were writing of an island in the Pacific. I remember a very vivid impression
that occurred to me on first landing at Kingstown, and accompanied me during the whole of my
stay in the island, to the effect, that the striking differences in everything that fell under
my observation from what I had left behind me at Holyhead, were fully as great as any that
had excited my interest when first landing in France.

One of my first visits was to my brother's chief. He was a master of foxhounds and hunted the
country. And I well remember my astonishment, when the door of this gentleman's residence was
opened to me by an extremely dirty and slatternly bare-footed and bare-legged girl. I found
him to be a very friendly and hospitable good fellow, and his wife and her sister very pleasant
women. I found too that my brother stood high in his good graces by virtue of simply having
taken the whole work and affairs of the postal district on his own shoulders. The rejected
of St. Martin's-le-Grand was already a very valuable and capable officer.

My brother gave me the choice of a run to the Killeries, or to Killarney. We could not manage
both. I chose the former, and a most enjoyable trip we had. He could not leave his work to
go with me, but was to join me subsequently, I forget where, in the west. Meantime he gave
me a letter to a bachelor friend of his at Clifden. This gentleman immediately asked me to
dinner, and he and I dined tête-à-tête. Nevertheless, he thought it necessary to apologise
for the appearance of a very fine John Dory on the table, saying, that he had been himself
to the market to get a turbot for me, but that he had been asked half-a-crown for a not very
large one, and really he could not give such absurd prices as that!

Anthony duly joined me as proposed, and we had a grand walk over the mountains above the Killeries.
I don't forget and never shall forget--nor did Anthony ever forget; alas! that we shall never
more talk over that day again--the truly grand spectacular changes from dark thick enveloping
cloud to brilliant sunshine, suddenly revealing all the mountains and the wonderful colouring
of the intertwining sea beneath them, and then back to cloud and mist and drifting sleet again.
It was a glorious walk. We returned wet to the skin to "Joyce's Inn," and dined on roast goose
and whisky punch, wrapped in our blankets like Roman senators!

One other scene I must recall. The reader will hardly believe that it occurred in Ireland.
There was an election of a member for I forget what county or borough, and my brother and I
went to the hustings--the only time I ever was at an election in Her Majesty's dominions. What
were the party feelings, or the party colours, I utterly forget. It was merely for the fun
of the thing that we went there. The fun indeed was fast and furious. The whole scene on the
hustings, as well as around them, seemed to me one seething mass of senseless but good-humoured
hustling and confusion. Suddenly in the midst of the uproar an ominous cracking was heard,
and in the next minute the hustings swayed and came down with a crash, heaping together in
a confused mass all the two or three hundreds of human beings who were on the huge platform.
Some few were badly hurt. But my brother and I being young and active, and tolerably stout
fellows, soon extricated ourselves, regained our legs, and found that we were none the worse.
Then we began to look to our neighbours. And the first who came to hand was a priest, a little
man, who was lying with two or three fellows on the top of him, horribly frightened and roaring
piteously for help. So Anthony took hold of one of his arms and I of the other, and by main
force dragged him from under the superincumbent mass of humanity. When we got him on his legs
his gratitude was unbounded. "Tell me your names," he shouted, "that I'll pray for ye!" We
told him laughingly that we were afraid it was no use, for we were heretics. "Tell me your
names," he shouted again, "that I'll pray for ye all the more!"

I wonder whether he ever did! He certainly was very much in earnest while the fright was on him.

Not very long after my return from this Irish trip, we finally left Penrith on the 3rd of April,
1843; and I trust that the nymph of the holy well, whose spring we had disturbed, was appeased.

My mother and I had now "the world before us where to choose." She had work in hand, and more
in perspective. I also had some in hand and very much more in perspective, but it was work
of a nature that might be done in one place as well as another. So when "Carlton Hill" (all
of a sudden the name comes back to my memory!) was sold, we literally stood with no impedimenta
of any sort save our trunks, and absolutely free to turn our faces in whatsoever direction
we pleased.

What we did in the first instance was to turn them to the house of our old and well-beloved
cousin, Fanny Bent, at Exeter. There after a few days we persuaded her to accompany us to Ilfracombe,
where we spent some very enjoyable summer weeks. What I remember chiefly in connection with
that pleasant time, was idling rambles over the rocks and the Capstone Hill, in company with
Mrs. Coker and her sister Miss Aubrey, the daughters of that Major A. who needs to the whist-playing
world no further commemoration. The former of them was the wife and mother of Wykehamists (founder's
kin), and both were very charming women. Ilfracombe was in those days an unpretending sort
of fishing village. There was no huge "Ilfracombe Hotel," and the Capstone Hill was not strewed
with whitey-brown biscuit bags and the fragments of bottles, nor continually vocal with nigger
minstrels and ranting preachers. The "Royal Clarence" did exist in the little town, whether
under that name or not, I forget. But I can testify from experience, acquired some forty years
afterwards, that Mr. and Mrs. Clemow now keep there one of the best inns of its class, that
I, no incompetent expert in such matters, know in all England.

Then, when the autumn days began to draw in, we returned to Exeter, and many a long consultation
was held by my mother and I, sallying forth from Fanny Bent's hospitable house for a tête-à-tête
stroll on Northernhay, on the question of "What next?"

It turned out to be a more momentous question than we either of us imagined it to be at the
time; for the decision of it involved the shape and form of the entire future life of one of
us, and still more important modification of the future life of the other. Dresden was talked
of. Rome was considered. Paris was thought of. Venice was discussed. No one of them was proposed
as a future permanent home. Finally Florence came on the tapis. We had liked it much, and had
formed some much valued friendships there. It was supposed to be economical as a place to live
in, which was one main point. For our plan was to make for ourselves for two or three years
a home and way of living sufficiently cheap to admit of combining with it large plans of summer
travel. And eventually Florence was fixed on.

As for my mother, it turned out that she was then selecting her last and final home--though
the end was not, thank God, for many a long year yet. As for me, the decision arrived at during
those walks on Exeter Northernhay, was more momentous still. For I was choosing the road that
led not only to my home for the next half century nearly, but to two marriages, both of them
so happy in all respects as rarely to have fallen to the lot of one and the same man!

How little we either of us, my mother and I, saw into the future--beyond a few immediate inches
before our noses! Truly prudens futuri temporis exitum caliginosâ nocte premit Deus! And when
I hear talk of "conduct making fate," I often think--humbly and gratefully, I trust; marvelling,
certainly,--how far it could have à priori seemed probable, that the conduct of a man who,
without either oes in presenti, or any very visible prospect of oes in futuro, turns aside
from all the beaten paths of professional industry should have led him to a long life of happiness
and content, hardly to be surpassed, and, I should fear, rarely equalled. Deus nobis haec otia
fecit!--Deus, by the intromission of one rarely good mother, and two rarely good, and I may
add rarely gifted, wives!

Not that I would have the reader translate "otia" by idleness. I have written enough to show
that my life hitherto had been a full and active one. And it continued in Italy to be an industrious
one. Translate the word rather into "independence." For I worked at work that I liked, and
did no taskwork. Nevertheless, I would not wish to be an evil exemplar, vitiis imitabile, and
I don't recommend you, dear boys, to do as I did. I have been quite abnormally fortunate.

Well, we thought that we were casting the die of fate on a very subordinate matter, while,
lo! it was cast for us by the Supernal Powers after a more far-reaching and over-ruling fashion.

So on the 2nd of September, 1843, we turned our faces southwards and left London for Florence.

We became immediately on arriving in Firenze la gentile (after a little tour in Savoy, introduced
as an interlude after our locomotive rambling fashion) the guests of Lady Bulwer, who then
inhabited in the Palazzo Passerini an apartment far larger than she needed, till we could find
a lodging for ourselves.

We had become acquainted with Lady Bulwer in Paris, and a considerable intimacy arose between
her and my mother, whose nature was especially calculated to sympathise with the good qualities
which Lady Bulwer unquestionably possessed in a high degree. She was brilliant, witty, generous,
kind, joyous, good-natured, and very handsome. But she was wholly governed by impulse and unreasoning
prejudice; though good-natured, was not always good-humoured; was totally devoid of prudence
or judgment, and absolutely incapable of estimating men aright. She used to think me, for instance,
little short of an admirable Crichton!

Of course all the above rehearsed good qualities were, or were calculated to be, immediately
perceived and appreciated, while the less pleasant specialties which accompanied them were
of a kind to become more perceptible only in close intimacy. And while no intimacy ever lessened
that regard of my mother and myself that had been won by the first, it was not long before
we were both, my mother especially, vexed by exhibitions of the second.

As, for instance:--Lady Bulwer had for some days been complaining of feeling unwell, and was
evidently suffering. My mother urged her to have some medical advice, whereupon she turned
on her very angrily, while the tears started to her beautiful eyes, and said, "How can you
tell me to do any such thing, when you know that I have not a guinea for the purpose?" (She
was frequently wont to complain of her poverty.) But she had hardly got the words out of her
mouth when the servant entered the room saying that the silversmith was at the door asking
that the account which he laid on the table might be paid. The account (which Lady Bulwer made
no attempt to conceal, for concealment of anything was not at all in her line) was for a pair
of small silver spurs and an ornamented silver collar which she had ordered a week or two previously
for the ceremonial knighting of her little dog Taffy!

On another occasion a large party of us were to visit the Boboli Gardens. It was a very hot
day, and we had to climb the hill to the upper part of the gardens, from whence the view over
Florence and the Val d'Arno is a charming one. But the hill, as those who have been at Florence
will not have forgotten, is not only an extremely steep, but a shadeless one. The broad path
runs between two wide margins of turf, which are enclosed on either side by thick but not very
high shrubberies. The party sorted themselves into couples, and the men addressed themselves
to facilitating as best they might the not slightly fatiguing work before the ladies. It fell
to my lot to give Lady Bulwer my arm. Before long we were the last and most lagging couple
on the path. It was hard work, but I did my best, and flattered myself that my companion, despite
the radical moisture which she was copiously losing, was in high good humour, as indeed she
seemed to be, when suddenly, without a word of warning, she dashed from the path, threw herself
prone among the bushes, and burst into an uncontrollable fit of sobs and weeping. I was horrified
with amazement. What had I done, or what left undone? It was long before I could get a word
out of her. At last she articulated amidst her sobs, "It is TOO hot! It is cruel to bring one
here!" Yes, it was too hot; but that was all. Fortunately I was not the cruel bringer. I consoled
her to the best of my power, and induced her to wipe her eyes. I dabbled a handkerchief in
a neighbouring fountain for her to wash her streaked face, and eventually I got her to the
top of the hill, where all the others had long since arrived.

The incident was entirely characteristic of her. She was furiously angry with all things in
heaven above and on the earth below because she was at the moment inconvenienced.

Here is the beginning of a letter from her of a date some months anterior to the Boboli adventure:

"Illustrissimo Signor Tommaso" (that was the usual style of her address to me), "as your book
is just out you must feel quite en train for puffs of any description. Therefore I send you
the best I have seen for a long while, La Physiologie du Fumeur. But even if you don't like
it, don't put it in your pipe and smoke it. Vide Joseph Fume."

A little subsequently she writes: "Signor Tommaso, the only revenge I shall take for your lecture"
(probably on the matter of some outrageous extravagance) "is not to call you illustrissimo
and not to send you an illuminated postillion" (a previous letter having been ornamented with
such a decoration at the top of the sheet), "but let you find your way to Venice in the dark
as you can, and then and there, 'On the Rialto I will rate you,' and, being a man, you know
there is no chance of my over-rating you."

The following passage from the same letter refers to some negotiations with which she had entrusted
me relative to some illustrations she was bent on having in a forthcoming book she was about
to publish:--"As for the immortal Cruikshank, tell him that I am sure the mighty genius which
conceived Lord Bateman could not refuse to give any lady the werry best, and if he does I shall
pass the rest of my life registering a similar wow to that of the fair Sophia, and exclaiming,
'I vish, George Cruikshank, as you vas mine.'"

The rest of the long, closely-written four-paged letter is an indiscriminate and bitter, though
joking attack, upon the race of publishers. She calls Mr. Colburn an "embodied shiver," which
will bring a smile to the lips of those--few, I fear--who remember the little man.

Here are some extracts from a still longer letter written to my mother much about the same
time: "I hear Lady S---- has committed another novel, called The Three Peers, no doubt l'un
pire que l'autre!... I have a great many kind messages to you from that very charming person
Madame Récamier, who fully intends meeting you at Venice with Chateaubriand in October, for
so she told me on Sunday. I met her at Miss Clarke's some time ago, and as I am a bad pusher
I am happy to say she asked to be introduced to me, and was, thanks to you, my kind friend!
She pressed me to go and see her, which I have done two or three times, and am going to do
again at her amiable request on Thursday. I think that her fault is that she flatters a little
too much. And flattery to one whose ears have so long been excoriated by abuse does not sound
safe. However, all is right when she speaks of you. And the point she most eulogised in you
is that which I have heard many a servile coward who could never go and do likewise" [no indication
is to be found either in this letter or elsewhere to whom she alludes], "select for the same
purpose, namely, your straightforward, unflinching, courageous integrity.... Balzac is furious
at having his new play suppressed by Thiers, in which Arnauld acted Louis Philippe, wig and
all, to the life; but, as I said to M. Dupin, 'Cest tout naturel que M. Thiers ne permetterait
à personne de jouer Louis Philippe que lui-même.' ... There is a wonderful pointer here that
has been advertised for sale for twelve hundred francs. A friend of mine went to see him, and
after mounting up to a little garret about the size of a chessboard, au vingt-septième, he
interrogated the owner as to the dog's education and acquirements, to which the man replied,
'Pour ca, monsieur, c'est un chien parfait. Je lui ai tout appris moi-même dans ma chambre'[1]
After this my friend did not sing 'Together let us range the fields!' ... Last week I met Colonel
Potter M'Queen, who was warm in his praises of you, and the great good your Michael Armstrong"
(the factory story) "had done.... Last Thursday despatches arrived and Lord Granville had to
start for London at a moment's notice. I was in hopes this beastly ministry were out! But no
such luck! For they are a compound of glue, sticking-plaister, wax, and vice--the most adhesive
of all known mixtures."

[Footnote 1: "As for that, sir, the dog is perfect. I have myself taught him everything in
my own room!"]

Before concluding my recollections of Rosina, Lady Lytton Bulwer, I think it right to say that
I consider myself to have perfectly sufficient grounds for feeling certain that the whispers
which were circulated in a cowardly and malignant fashion against the correctness of her conduct
as a woman were wholly unfounded. Her failings and tendency to failings lay in a quite different
direction. I knew perfectly well the person whose name was mentioned scandalously in connection
with hers, and knew the whole history of the relationship that existed between them. The gentleman
in question was for years Lady Bulwer's constant and steadfast friend. It is quite true that
he would fain have been something more, but true also that his friendship survived the absolute
rejection of all warmer sentiments by the object of it. It was almost a matter of course that
such a woman as Lady Bulwer, living unprotected in the midst of such a society as that of Florence
in those days, should be so slandered. And were it not that there were very few if any persons
at the time, and I think certainly not one still left, able to speak upon the subject with
such connaissance de cause as I can, I should not have alluded to it.

She was an admirably charming companion before the footlights of the world's stage--not so
uniformly charming behind its scenes, for her unreasonableness always and her occasional violence
were very difficult to deal with. But she was, as Dickens's poor Jo says in Bleak House, "werry
good to me!"

CHAPTER VI.

After some little time and trouble we found an apartment in the Palazzo Berti, in the ominously
named Via dei Malcontenti. It was so called because it was at one time the road to the Florentine
Tyburn. Our house was the one next to the east end of the church of Santa Croce. Our rooms
looked on to a large garden, and were pleasant enough. We witnessed from our windows the building
of the new steeple of Santa Croce, which was completed before we left the house.

It was built in great measure by an Englishman, a Mr. Sloane, a fervent Catholic, who was at
that time one of the best-known figures in the English colony at Florence.

He was a large contributor to the recently completed façade of the Duomo in Florence, and to
many other benevolent and pietistic good works. He had been tutor in the Russian Boutourlin
family, and when acting in that capacity had been taken, by reason of his geological acquirements,
to see some copper mines in the Volterra district, which the Grand Duke had conceded to a company
under whose administration they were going utterly to the bad. Sloane came, saw, and eventually
conquered. In conjunction with Horace Hall, the then well known and popular partner in the
bank of Signor Emanuele Fenzi (one of whose sons married an English wife, and is still my very
good and forty years old friend), he obtained a new concession of the mines from the Grand
Duke on very favourable terms, and by the time I made his acquaintance had become a wealthy
man. I fancy the Halls, Horace and his much esteemed brother Alfred (who survived him many
years, and was the father of a family, one of the most respected and popular of the English
colony during the whole of my Florence life), subsequently considered themselves to have been
shouldered out of the enterprise by a certain unhandsome treatment on the part of the fortunate
tutor. What may have been the exact history of the matter I do not know. But I do know that
Sloane always remained on very intimate terms with the Grand Duke, and was a power in the inmost
circles of the ecclesiastic world.

He used to give great dinners on Friday, the principal object of which seemed to be to show
how magnificent a feast could be given without infringing by a hair's breadth the rule of the
Church. And admirably he succeeded in showing how entirely the spirit and intention of the
Church in prescribing a fast could be made of none effect by a skilfully-managed observance
of the letter of its law.

The only opportunity I ever had of conversing with Cardinal Wiseman was in Casa Sloane. And
what I chiefly remember of His Eminence was his evident annoyance at the ultra-demonstrative
zeal of the female portion of the mixed Catholic and Protestant assembly, who would kneel and
kiss his hand. A schoolmaster meeting boys in society, who, instantly on his appearance should
begin unbuttoning their brace buttons behind, would hardly appreciate the recognition more
gratefully.

Within a very few weeks of our establishment in Casa Berti my mother's home became, as usual,
a centre of attraction and pleasant intercourse, and her weekly Friday receptions were always
crowded. If I were to tell everything of what I remember in connection with those days, I should
produce such a book as non dî, non homines, non concessere columnae--a book such as neither
publishers, nor readers, nor the columns of the critical journals would tolerate, and should
fill my pages with names, which, however interesting they may still be for me, would hardly
have any interest for the public, however gentle or pensive.

One specialty, and that not a pleasant one, of a life so protracted as mine has been in the
midst of such a society as that of Florence in those days, is the enormous quantity of the
names which turn the tablets of memory into palimpsests, not twice, but fifty times written
over!--unpleasant, not from the thronging in of the motley company, but from the inevitable
passing out of them from the field of vision. One's recollections come to resemble those of
the spectator of a phantasmagoric show. Processions of heterogeneous figures, almost all of
them connected in some way or other with more or less pleasant memories, troop across the magic
circle of light, only, alack! to vanish into uttermost night when they pass beyond its limit.
Of course all this is inevitable from the migratory nature of such a society as that which
was gathered together on the banks of the Arno.

Some fixtures--comparatively fixtures--of course there were, who gave to our moving quicksand-like
society some degree of cohesion.

Chief among these was of course the British minister--at the time of our arrival in Florence,
and many years afterwards--Lord Holland. A happier instance of the right man in the right place
could hardly be met with. At his great omnium-gatherum dinners and receptions--his hospitality
was of the most catholic and generous sort--both he and Lady Holland (how pretty she then was
there is her very clever portrait by Watts to testify) never failed to win golden opinions
from all sorts and conditions of men and women. And in the smaller circle, which assembled
in their rooms yet more frequently, they showed to yet greater advantage, for Lord Holland
was one of the most amusing talkers I ever knew.

Of course many of those who ought to have been grateful for their admission to the minister's
large receptions were discontented at not being invited to the smaller ones. And it was by
some of these malcontents with more wit than reason, that Lady Holland was accused of receiving
in two very distinct fashions--en ménage and en ménagerie. The mot was a successful one, and
nobody was more amused by it than the spirituelle lady of whom it was said. It was too happy
a mot not to have been stolen by divers pilferers of such articles, and adapted to other persons
and other occasions. But it was originally spoken of the time, place, and person here stated
to have been the object of it.

Generally, in such societies in foreign capitals, a fruitful source of jealousy and discord
is found in the necessary selection of those to be presented at the court of the reigning sovereign.
But this, as far as I remember, was avoided in those halcyon days by the simple expedient of
presenting all who desired it. And that Lord Holland was the right man in the right place as
regards this matter the following anecdote will show.

When Mr. Hamilton became British minister at Florence, it was announced that his intention
was, for the avoiding of all trouble and jealousy on the subject, to adhere strictly to the
proper and recognised rule. He would present everybody and anybody who had been presented at
home, and nobody who had not been so presented. And he commenced his administration on these
lines, and the Grand Duke's receptions at the Pitti became notably weeded. But this had not
gone, on for more than two or three weeks before it was whispered in the minister's ear that
the Grand Duke would be pleased if he were less strict in the matter of his presentations.
"Oh!" said Hamilton, "that's what he wants! A la bonne heure! He shall have them all, rag,
tag, and bobtail." And so we returned to the Saturnia regna of "the good old times," and the
Duke was credibly reported to have said that he "kept the worst drawing-room in Europe." But,
of course, His Highness was thinking of the pockets of his liege Florentine letters of apartments
and tradesmen, and was anxious only to make his city a favourite place of resort for the gold-bringing
foreigners from that distant and barbarous western isle. The Pope, you see, had the pull in
the matter of gorgeous Church ceremonies, but he couldn't have the fertilising barbarians dancing
in the Vatican once a week!

One more anecdote I must find room for, because it is curiously illustrative in several ways
of those tempi passati, che non tornano piu. Florence was full of refugees from the political
rigours of the papal government, who had for some time past found there an unmolested refuge.
But the aspect of the times was becoming more and more alarming to Austria, and the Duchini,
as we called the Sovereigns of Modena and Parma; and pressure was put on the Duke by the pontifical
government insisting on the demand that these refugees should be given up by Tuscany. Easy-going
Tuscany, not yet in anywise alarmed for herself, fought off the demand for a while, but was
at last driven to notify her intention of acceding to it. It was in these circumstances that
Massino d'Azeglio came to me one morning, in the garden of our house in the Via del Giglio--the
same in which the poet Milton lodged when he was in Florence--to which we had by that time
moved, and told me that he wanted me to do something for him. Of course I professed all readiness,
and he went on to tell me of the critical and dangerous position in which the refugees of whom
I have spoken were placed, and said that I must go to Lord Holland and ask him to give them
British passports. He urged that nothing could be easier, that no objection could possibly
be taken to it; that the Tuscan government was by no means desirous of giving up these men,
and would only be too glad to get out of it; that England both at Malta and in the Ionian Islands
had plenty of Italian subjects--and in short, I undertook the mission, I confess with very
small hopes of success. Lord Holland laughed aloud when I told my tale, and said he thought
it was about the most audacious request that had ever been made to a British minister. But
he ended by granting it. Doubtless he knew very well the truth of what d'Azeglio had stated--that
the Tuscan government would be much too well pleased to ask any questions; and the passports
were given.

It was not long after our establishment in the Via dei Malcontenti that a great disaster came
upon Florence and its inhabitants and guests. Arno was not in the habit of following the evil
example of the Tiber by treating Florence as the latter so frequently did Rome. But in the
winter of the year 1844 a terrible and unprecedented flood came. The rain fell in such torrents
all one night that it was feared that the Arno, already much swollen, would not be able to
carry off the waters with sufficient rapidity. I went out early in the morning before breakfast,
in company with a younger brother of the Dr. Nicholson of Penrith whom I have mentioned, who
happened to be visiting us. We climbed to the top of Giotto's tower, and saw at once the terrible
extent and very serious character of the misfortune. One-third, at least, of Florence, was
under water, and the flood was rapidly rising. Coming down from our lofty observatory, we made
our way to the "Lung' Arno," as the river quays are called. And there the sight was truly a
terrible and a magnificent one. The river, extending in one turbid, yellow, swirling mass from
the walls of the houses on the quay on one side, to those of the houses opposite, was bringing
down with it fragments of timber, carcases of animals, large quantities of hay and straw;--and
amid the wreck we saw a cradle with a child in it, safely navigating the tumbling waters! It
was drawn to the window of a house by throwing a line over it, and the infant navigator was
none the worse.

But very great fears were entertained for the very ancient Ponte Vecchio, with its load of
silversmiths' and jewellers' shops, turning it from a bridge into a street--the only remaining
example in Europe, I believe, of a fashion of construction once common. The water continued
to rise as we stood watching it. Less than a foot of space yet remained between the surface
of the flood and the keystone of the highest arch; and it was thought that if the water rose
sufficiently to beat against the solid superstructure of the bridge, it must have been swept
away. But at last came the cry from those who were watching it close at hand, that for the
last five minutes the surface had been stationary; and in another half hour it was followed
by the announcement that the flood had begun to decrease. Then there was an immense sensation,
of relief; for the Florentines love their old bridge; and the crowd began to disperse.

All this time I had had not a mouthful of breakfast, and we betook ourselves to Doney's bottega
to get a cup of coffee before going home. But when we attempted this we found that it was more
easily said than done. The Via dei Malcontenti as well as the whole of the Piazza di Santa
Croce was some five feet under water! We succeeded, however, in getting aboard a large boat,
which was already engaged in carrying bread to the people in the most deeply flooded parts
of the town. But all difficulty was not over. Of course the street door of the Palazzo Berti
was shut, and no earthly power could open it. Our apartment was on the second floor. Our landlord's
family occupied the primo. Of course I could get in at their windows and then go up stairs.
And we had a ladder in the boat; but the mounting to the first floor by this ladder, placed
on the little deck of the boat, as she was rocked by the torrent, was no easy matter, especially
for me, who went first. Eventually, however, Nicholson and I both entered the window, hospitably
opened to receive us, in safety.

But it was one or two days before the flood subsided sufficiently for us to be provisioned
in any other manner than by the boat; and for long years afterwards social events were dated
in Florence as having happened "before or after the flood." In those days, and for many days
subsequently to them, Florence did indeed--as I have observed when speaking of the motives
which induced us to settle there--join to its other attractions that of being an economical
place of residence. Our money consisted of piastres, pauls, and crazie. Eight of the latter
were equal to a paul, ten of which were equivalent to a piastre. The value of the paul was,
as nearly as possible, equal to fivepence-halfpenny English. The lira--the original representative
of the leading denomination of our own l.s.d.--no longer existed in--the flesh I was going
to say, but rather in--the metal. And it is rather curious, that just as the guinea remained,
and indeed remains, a constantly-used term of speech after it has ceased to exist as current
coin, so the scudo remained, in Tuscany, no longer visible or current, but retained as an integer
in accounts of the larger sort. If you bought or sold house or land, for instance, you talked
of scudi. In more every-day matters piastre or "francesconi" were the integers used, the latter
being only a synonym for the former. And the proportion in value of the scudo and the piastre
was exactly the same as that of the guinea and the sovereign, the former being worth ten and
a half pauls, and the latter ten. The handsomest and best preserved coin ordinarily current
was the florin, worth two pauls and a half. Gold we rarely saw, but golden sequins (zecchini)
were in existence, and were traditionally used, as it was said, for I have no experience in
the matter, in the payment by the government of prizes won in the lottery.

Now, after this statement the reader will be in a position to appreciate the further information
that a flask of excellent Chianti, of a quality rarely met with nowadays, was ordinarily sold
for one paul. The flask contained (legal measure) seven troy pounds weight of liquid, or about
three bottles. The same sum purchased a good fowl in the market. The subscription (abbuonamento)
to the Pergola, the principal theatre, came to exactly two crazie and a half for each night
of performance. This price admitted you only to the pit, but as you were perfectly free to
enter any box in which there were persons of your acquaintance, the admission in the case of
a bachelor, permanently or temporarily such, was all that was necessary to him. And the price
of the boxes was small in proportion.

These boxes were indeed the drawing-rooms in which very much of the social intercourse of the
beau monde was carried on. The performances were not very frequently changed (two operas frequently
running through an entire season), and people went four or five times a week to hear, or rather
to be present at, the same representation. And except on first nights or some other such occasion,
or during the singing of the well-known tit-bits of any opera, there was an amount of chattering
in the house which would have made the hair of a fanatico per la musica stand on end. There
was also an exceedingly comfortable but very parsimoniously-lighted large room, which was a
grand flirting place, where people sat very patiently during the somewhat long operation of
having their names called aloud, as their carriages arrived, by an official, who knew the names
and addresses of us all. We also knew his mode of adapting the names of foreigners to his Italian
organs. "Hasa" (Florentine for casa) "Tro-lo-pé," with a long-drawn-out accent on the last
vowel, was the absolutely fatal signal for the sudden breaking up of many a pleasant chat.

Florence was also, in those days, an especially economical place for those to whom it was pleasant
to enjoy during the whole of the gay season as many balls, concerts, and other entertainments
as they could possibly desire, without the necessity, or indeed the possibility, of putting
themselves to the expense of giving anything in return. There was a weekly ball at the Pitti
Palace, and another at the Casino dei Nobili, which latter was supported entirely by the Florentine
aristocracy. There were two or three balls at the houses of the foreign ministers, and generally
one or two given by two or three wealthy Florentine nobles--there were a few, but very few such.

Perhaps the pleasantest of all these were the balls at the Pitti. They were so entirely sans
gêne. No court dress was required save on the first day of the year, when it was de rigueur.
But absence on that occasion in no way excluded the absentee from the other balls. Indeed,
save to a new comer, no invitations to foreigners were issued, it being understood that all
who had been there once were welcome ever after. The Pitti balls were not by any means concluded
by, but rather divided into two, by a very handsome and abundant supper, at which, to tell
tales out of school (but then the offenders have no doubt mostly gone over to the majority),
the guests used to behave abominably. The English would seize the plates of bonbons and empty
the contents bodily into their coat pockets. The ladies would do the same with their pocket-handkerchiefs.
But the Duke's liege subjects carried on their depredations on a far bolder scale. I have seen
large portions of fish, sauce and all, packed up in a newspaper, and deposited in a pocket.
I have seen fowls and ham share the same fate, without any newspaper at all. I have seen jelly
carefully wrapped in an Italian countess's laced mouchoir! I think the servants must have had
orders not to allow entire bottles of wine to be carried away, for I never saw that attempted,
and can imagine no other reason why. I remember that those who affected to be knowing old hands
used to recommend one to specially pay attention to the Grand Ducal Rhine wine, and remember,
too, conceiving a suspicion that certain of these connoisseurs based their judgment in this
matter wholly on their knowledge that the Duke possessed estates in Bohemia!

The English were exceedingly numerous in Florence at that time, and they were reinforced by
a continually increasing American contingent, though our cousins had not yet begun to come
in numbers rivalling our own, as has been the case recently. By the bye, it occurs to me, that
I never saw an American pillaging the supper table; though, I may add, that American ladies
would accept any amount of bonbons from English blockade runners.

And the mention of American ladies at the Pitti reminds me of a really very funny story, which
may be told without offence to any one now living. I have a notion that I have seen this story
of mine told somewhere, with a change of names and circumstances that spoil it, after the fashion
of the people "who steal other folks' stories and disfigure them, as gipsies do stolen children
to escape detection."

I had one evening at the Pitti, some years however after my first appearance there, a very
pretty and naively charming American lady on my arm, whom I was endeavouring to amuse by pointing
out to her all the personages whom I thought might interest her, as we walked through the rooms.
Dear old Dymock, the champion, was in Florence that winter, and was at the Pitti that night.--I
dare say that there may be many now who do not know without being told, that Dymock, the last
champion, as I am almost afraid I must call him--though doubtless Scrivelsby must still be
held by the ancient tenure--was a very small old man, a clergyman, and not at all the sort
of individual to answer to the popular idea of a champion. He was sitting in a nook all by
himself, and not looking very heroic or very happy as we passed, and nudging my companion's
arm, I whispered, "That is the champion." The interest I excited was greater than I had calculated
on, for the lady made a dead stop, and facing round to gaze at the old gentleman, said "Why,
you don't tell me so! I should never have thought that that could be the fellow who licked
Heenan! But he looks a plucky little chap!"

Perhaps the reader may have forgotten, or even never known, that the championship of the pugilistic
world had then recently been won by Sayers--I think that was the name--in a fight with an antagonist
of the name of Heenan. In fact it was I, and not my fair companion, who was a muff, for having
imagined that a young American woman, nearly fresh from the other side of the Atlantic, was
likely to know or ever have heard anything about the Champion of England.

There happened to be several Lincolnshire men that year in Florence, and there was a dinner
at which I, as one of the "web-footed," by descent if not birth, was present, and I told them
the story of my Pitti catastrophe. The lady's concluding words produced an effect which may
be imagined more easily than described.

The Grand Duke at these Pitti balls used to show himself, and take part in them as little as
might be. The Grand Duchess used to walk through the rooms sometimes. The Grand Duchess, a
Neapolitan princess, was not beloved by the Tuscans; and I am disposed to believe that she
did not deserve their affection. But there was at that time another lady at the Pitti, the
Dowager Grand Duchess, the widow of the late Grand Duke. She had been a Saxon princess, and
was very favourably contrasted with the reigning Duchess in graciousness of manner, in appearance--for
though a considerably older, she was still an elegant-looking woman--and, according to the
popular estimate, in character. She also would occasionally walk through the rooms; but her
object, and indeed that of the Duke, seemed to be to attract as little attention as possible.

Only on the first night of the year, when we were all in gran gala, i.e. in court suits or
uniform, did any personal communication with the Grand Duke take place. His manner, when anybody
was presented to him on these or other occasions, was about as bad and imprincely as can well
be conceived. His clothes never fitted him. He used to support himself on one foot, hanging
his head towards that side, and occasionally changing the posture of both foot and head, always
simultaneously. And he always appeared to be struggling painfully with the consciousness that
he had nothing to say. It was on one of these occasions that an American new arrival was presented
to him by Mr. Maquay, the banker, who always did that office for Americans, the United States
having then no representative at the Grand Ducal court. Maquay, thinking to help the Duke,
whispered in his ear that the gentleman was connected by descent with the great Washington,
upon which the Duke, changing his foot, said, "Ah! le grand Vash!" His manner was that of a
lethargic and not wide-awake man. When strangers would sometimes venture some word of compliment
on the prosperity and contentment of the Tuscans, his reply invariably was, "Sono tranquilli"--they
are quiet. But in truth much more might have been said; for assuredly Tuscany was a Land of
Goshen in the midst of the peninsula. There was neither want nor discontent (save among a very
small knot of politicians, who might almost have been counted on the hand), nor crime. There
was at Florence next to no police of any kind, but the streets were perfectly safe by night
or by day.

There was a story, much about that time, which made some noise in Europe, and was very disingenuously
made use of, as such stories are, of a certain Florentine and his wife, named Madiai, who had
been, it was asserted, persecuted for reading the Bible. It was not so. They were "persecuted"
for, i.e. restrained from, preaching to others that they ought to read it, which is, though
doubtless a bad, yet a very different thing.

I believe the Grand Duke (gran ciuco--great ass--as his irreverent Tuscans nicknamed him) was
a good and kindly man, and under the circumstances, and to the extent of his abilities, not
a bad ruler. The phrase, which Giusti applied to him, and which the inimitable talent of the
satirist has made more durable than any other memorial of the poor gran ciuco is likely to
be, "asciuga tasche e maremme"--he dries up pockets and marshes--is as unjust as such mots
of satirists are wont to be. The draining of the great marshes of the Chiana, between Arezzo
and Chiusi, was a well-considered and most beneficent work on a magnificent scale, which, so
far from "drying pockets," added enormously to the wealth of the country, and is now adding
very appreciably to the prosperity of Italy. Nor was Giusti's reproach in any way merited by
the Grand Ducal government. The Grand Duke personally was a very wealthy man, as well as, in
respect to his own habits, a most simple liver. The necessary expenses of the little state
were small; and taxation was so light that a comparison between that of the Saturnian days
in question and that under which the Tuscans of the present day not unreasonably groan, might
afford a text for some very far-reaching speculations. The Tuscans of the present day may preach
any theological doctrines they please to any who will listen to them, or indeed to those who
won't, but it would be curious to know how many individuals among them consider that, or any
other recently-acquired liberty, well bought at the price they pay for it.

The Grand Duke was certainly not a great or a wise man. He was one of those men of whom their
friends habitually say that they are "no fools," or "not such fools as they look," which generally
may be understood to mean that the individual spoken of cannot with physiological accuracy
be considered a crétin. Nevertheless, in his case the expression was doubtless accurately true.
He was not such a fool as he looked, for his appearance was certainly not that of a wise, or
even an intelligent man.

One story is told of him, which I have reason to believe perfectly true, and which is so characteristic
of the man, and of the time, that I must not deprive the reader of it.

It was the custom that on St. John's Day the Duke should visit and inspect the small body of
troops who were lodged in the Fortezza di San Giovanni, or Fortezza da Basso, as it was popularly
called, in contradistinction from another fort on the high ground above the Boboli Gardens.
And it was expected that on these occasions the sovereign should address a few words to his
soldiers. So the Duke, resting his person first on one leg and then on the other, after his
fashion, stood in front of the two or three score of men drawn up in line before him, and after
telling them that obedience to their officers and attachment to duty were the especial virtues
of a soldier, he continued, "Above all, my men, I desire that you should remember the duties
and observances of our holy religion, and--and--" (here, having said all he had to say, His
Highness was at a loss for a conclusion to his harangue. But looking down on the ground as
he strove to find a fitting peroration, he observed that the army's shoes were sadly in want
of the blacking brush, so he concluded with more of animation and significance than he had
before evinced) "and keep your shoes clean!"

I may find room further on to say a few words of what I remember of the revolution which dethroned
poor gran ciuco. But I may as well conclude here what I have to say of him by relating the
manner of his final exit from the soil of Tuscany, of which the malicious among the few who
knew the circumstances were wont to say--very unjustly--that nothing in his reign became him
like the leaving of it. I saw him pass out from the Porta San Gallo on his way to Bologna among
a crowd of his late subjects, who all lifted their hats, though not without some satirical
cries of "Addio, sai" "Buon viaggio!" But a few, a very few, friends accompanied his carriage
to the papal frontier, an invisible line on the bleak Apennines, unmarked by any habitation.
There he descended from his carriage to receive their last adieus, and there was much lowly
bowing as they stood on the highway. The Duke, not unmoved, bowed lowly in return, but unfortunately
backing as he did so, tripped himself up with characteristic awkwardness, and tumbled backwards
on a heap of broken stones prepared for the road, with his heels in the air, and exhibiting
to his unfaithful Tuscans and ungrateful Duchy, as a last remembrance of him, a full view of
a part of his person rarely put forward on such occasions.

And so exeunt from the sight of men and from history a Grand Duke and a Grand Duchy.

CHAPTER VII.

It was not long after the flood in Florence--it seems to me, as I write, that I might almost
leave out the two last words!--that I saw Dickens for the first time. One morning in Casa Berti
my mother was most agreeably surprised by a card brought in to her with "Mr. and Mrs. Charles
Dickens" on it. We had been among his heartiest admirers from the early days of Pickwick. I
don't think we had happened to see the Sketches by Boz. But my uncle Milton used to come to
Hadley full of "the last Pickwick," and swearing that each number out-Pickwicked Pickwick.
And it was with the greatest curiosity and interest that we saw the creator of all this enjoyment
enter in the flesh.

We were at first disappointed, and disposed to imagine there must be some mistake! No! that
is not the man who wrote Pickwick! What we saw was a dandified, pretty-boy-looking sort of
figure, singularly young looking, I thought, with a slight flavour of the whipper-snapper genus
of humanity.

One may perhaps venture to suppose that had the second of these guesses been less accurate,
the description might have been a less kindly one.

But there are two errors to be noted in this sketch, graphic as it is. Firstly, Dickens's eyes
were not blue, but of a very distinct and brilliant hazel--the colour traditionally assigned
to Shakspeare's eyes. Secondly, Dickens, although truly of a slight, compact figure, was not
a very small man. I do not think he was below the average middle height. I speak from my remembrance
of him at a later day, when I had become intimate with him; but curiously enough, I find on
looking back into my memory, that if I had been asked to describe him, as I first saw him,
I too should have said that he was very small. Carlyle's words refer to Dickens's youth soon
after he had published Pickwick; and no doubt at this period he had a look of delicacy, almost
of effeminacy, if one may accept Maclise's well-known portrait as a truthful record, which
might give those who saw him the impression of his being smaller and more fragile in build
than was the fact. In later life he lost this D'Orsay look completely, and was bronzed and
reddened by wind and weather like a seaman.

In fact, when I saw him subsequently in London, I think I should have passed him in the street
without recognising him. I never saw a man so changed.

Any attempt to draw a complete pen-and-ink portrait of Dickens has been rendered for evermore
superfluous, if it were not presumptuous, by the masterly and exhaustive life of him by John
Forster.

At Florence Dickens made a pilgrimage to Landor's villa, the owner being then absent in England,
and gathered a leaf of ivy from Fiesole to carry back to the veteran poet, as narrated by Mr.
Forster. Dickens is as accurate as a topographer in his description of the villa, as looked
down on from Fiesole. How often--ah, how often!--have I looked down from that same dwarf wall
over the matchless view where Florence shows the wealth of villas that Ariosto declares made
it equivalent to two Romes!

Dickens was only thirty-three when I first saw him, being just two years my junior. I have
said what he appeared to me then. As I knew him afterwards, and to the end of his days, he
was a strikingly manly man, not only in appearance but in bearing. The lustrous brilliancy
of his eyes was very striking. And I do not think that I have ever seen it noticed, that those
wonderful eyes which saw so much and so keenly, were appreciably, though to a very slight degree,
near-sighted eyes. Very few persons, even among those who knew him well, were aware of this,
for Dickens never used a glass. But he continually exercised his vision by looking at distant
objects, and making them out as well as he could without any artificial assistance. It was
an instance of that force of will in him, which compelled a naturally somewhat delicate frame
to comport itself like that of an athlete. Mr. Forster somewhere says of him, "Dickens's habits
were robust, but his health was not." This is entirely true as far as my observation extends.

Of the general charm of his manner I despair of giving any idea to those who have not seen
or known him. This was a charm by no means dependent on his genius. He might have been the
great writer he was and yet not have warmed the social atmosphere wherever he appeared with
that summer glow which seemed to attend him. His laugh was brimful of enjoyment. There was
a peculiar humorous protest in it when recounting or hearing anything specially absurd, as
who should say "'Pon my soul this is too ridiculous! This passes all bounds!" and bursting
out afresh as though the sense of the ridiculous overwhelmed him like a tide, which carried
all hearers away with it, and which I well remember. His enthusiasm was boundless. It entered
into everything he said or did. It belonged doubtless to that amazing fertility and wealth
of ideas and feeling that distinguished his genius.

No one having any knowledge of the profession of literature can read Dickens's private letters
and not stand amazed at the unbounded affluence of imagery, sentiment, humour, and keen observation
which he poured out in them. There was no stint, no reservation for trade purposes. So with
his conversation--every thought, every fancy, every feeling was expressed with the utmost vivacity
and intensity, but a vivacity and intensity compatible with the most singular delicacy and
nicety of touch when delicacy and nicety of touch were needed.

What were called the exaggerations of his writing were due, I have no doubt, to the extraordinary
luminosity of his imagination. He saw and rendered such an individuality as Mr. Pecksniff's
or Mrs. Nickleby's for instance, something after the same fashion as a solar microscope renders
any object observed through it. The world in general beholds its Pecksniffs and its Mrs. Nicklebys
through a different medium. And at any rate Dickens got at the quintessence of his creatures,
and enables us all, in our various measures, to perceive it too. The proof of this is that
we are constantly not only quoting the sayings and doings of his immortal characters, but are
recognising other sayings and doings as what they would have said or done.

But it is impossible for one who knew him as I did to confine what he remembers of him either
to traits of outward appearance or to appreciations of his genius. I must say a few, a very
few words of what Dickens appeared to me as a man. I think that an epithet, which, much and
senselessly as it has been misapplied and degraded, is yet, when rightly used, perhaps the
grandest that can be applied to a human being, was especially applicable to him. He was a hearty
man, a large-hearted man that is to say. He was perhaps the largest-hearted man I ever knew.
I think he made a nearer approach to obeying the divine precept, "Love thy neighbour as thyself,"
than one man in a hundred thousand. His benevolence, his active, energising desire for good
to all God's creatures, and restless anxiety to be in some way active for the achieving of
it, were unceasing and busy in his heart ever and always.

But he had a sufficient capacity for a virtue, which, I think, seems to be moribund among us--the
virtue of moral indignation. Men and their actions were not all much of a muchness to him.
There was none of the indifferentism of that pseudo-philosophic moderation, which, when a scoundrel
or a scoundrelly action is on the tapis, hints that there is much to be said on both sides.
Dickens hated a mean action or a mean sentiment as one hates something that is physically loathsome
to the sight and touch. And he could be angry, as those with whom he had been angry did not
very readily forget.

And there was one other aspect of his moral nature, of which I am reminded by an observation
which Mr. Forster records as having been made by Mrs. Carlyle. "Light and motion flashed from
every part of it [his face]. It was as if made of steel." The first part of the phrase is true
and graphic enough, but the image offered by the last words appears to me a singularly infelicitous
one. There was nothing of the hardness or of the (moral) sharpness of steel about the expression
of Dickens's face and features. Kindling mirth and genial fun were the expressions which those
who casually met him in society were habituated to find there, but those who knew him well
knew also well that a tenderness, gentle and sympathetic as that of a woman, was a mood that
his surely never "steely" face could express exquisitely, and did express frequently.

I used to see him very frequently in his latter years. I generally came to London in the summer,
and one of the first things on my list was a visit to 20, Wellington Street. Then would follow
sundry other visits and meetings--to Tavistock House, to Gadshill, at Verey's in Regent Street,
a place he much patronised, &c., &c. I remember one day meeting Chauncy Hare Townsend at Tavistock
House and thinking him a very singular and not particularly agreeable man. Edwin Landseer I
remember dined there the same day. But he had been a friend of my mother's, and was my acquaintance
of long long years before.

Of course we had much and frequent talk about Italy, and I may say that our ideas and opinions,
and especially feelings on that subject, were always, I think, in unison. Our agreement respecting
English social and political matters was less perfect. But I think that it would have become
more nearly so had his life been prolonged as mine has been. And the approximation would, if
I am not much mistaken, have been brought about by a movement of mind on his part, which already
I think those who knew him best will agree with me in thinking had commenced. We differed on
many points of politics. But there is one department of English social life--one with which
I am probably more intimately acquainted than with any other, and which has always been to
me one of much interest--our public school system, respecting which our agreement was complete.
And I cannot refrain from quoting. The opinion which he expresses is as true as if he had,
like me, an eight years' experience of the system he is speaking of. And the passage, which
I am about to give, is very remarkable as an instance of the singular acumen, insight, and
power of sympathy which enabled him to form so accurately correct an opinion on a matter of
which he might be supposed to know nothing.

I have in my possession a great number of letters from Dickens, some of which might probably
have been published in the valuable collection of his letters published by his sister-in-law
and eldest daughter had they been get-at-able at the time when they might have been available
for that publication.[1] But I was at Rome, and the letters were safely stowed away in England
in such sort that it would have needed a journey to London to get at them.

[Footnote 1: Some of the letters in question--such as I had with me--were sent to London for
that purpose. I do not remember now which were and which were not. But if it should be the
case that any of those printed here have been printed before, I do not think any reader will
object to having them again brought under his eye.]

I was for several years a frequent contributor to Household Words, my contributions for the
most part consisting of what I considered tit-bits from the byways of Italian history, which
the persevering plough of my reading turned up from time to time.

In one case I remember the article was sent "to order," I was dining with him after I had just
had all the remaining hairs on my head made to stand on end by the perusal of the officially
published Manual for Confessors, as approved by superior authority for the dioceses of Tuscany.
I was full of the subject, and made, I fancy, the hairs of some who sat at table with me stand
on end also. Dickens said, with nailing forefinger levelled at me, "Give us that for Household
Words. Give it us just as you have now been telling it to us"--which I accordingly did. Whether
the publication of that article was in anywise connected with the fact that when I wished to
purchase a second copy of that most extraordinary work I was told that it was out of print,
and not to be had, I do not know. Of course it was kept as continually in print as the Latin
Grammar, for the constant use of the class for whom it was provided, and who most assuredly
could not have found their way safely through the wonderful intricacies of the Confessional
without it. And equally, of course, the publishers of so largely-circulated a work did not
succeed in preventing me from obtaining a second copy of it.

Many of the letters addressed to me by Dickens concerned more or less my contributions to his
periodical, and many more are not of a nature to interest the public even though they came
from him. But I may give a few extracts from three or four of them.[1]

[Footnote 1: I wish it to be observed that any letters, or parts of letters, from Dickens here
printed are published with the permission and authorisation of his sister-in-law, Miss Georgina
Hogarth.]

Here is a passage from a letter dated 3rd December, 1861, which my vanity will not let me suppress.

"Yes; the Christmas number was intended as a conveyance of all friendly greetings in season
and out of season. As to its lesson, you need it almost as little as any man I know; for all
your study and seclusion conduce to the general good, and disseminate truths that men cannot
too earnestly take to heart. Yes, a capital story that of 'The Two Seaborn Babbies,' and wonderfully
droll, I think. I may say so without blushing, for it is not by me. It was done by Wilkie Collins."

Here is another short note, not a little gratifying to me personally, but not without interest
of a larger kind to the reader:--

       *       *       *       *       *

"Tuesday, 15th November, 1859.

"MY DEAR TROLLOPE,--I write this hasty word, just as the post leaves, to ask you this question,
which this moment occurs to me.

"Montalembert, in his suppressed treatise, asks, 'What wrong has Pope Pius the Ninth done?'
Don't you think you can very pointedly answer that question in these pages? If you cannot,
nobody in Europe can. Very faithfully yours always,

"CHARLES DICKENS"

       *       *       *       *       *

Some, some few, may remember the interest excited by the treatise to which the above letter
refers. No doubt I could, and doubtless did, though I forget all about it, answer the question
propounded by the celebrated French writer. But there was little hope of my doing it as "pointedly"
as my correspondent would have done it himself. The answer, which might well have consisted
of a succinct statement of all the difficulties of the position with which Italy was then struggling,
had to confine itself to the limits of an article in All The Year Round, and needed in truth
to be pointed. I have observed that, in all our many conversations on Italian matters, Dickens's
views and opinions coincided with my own, without, I think, any point of divergence. Very specially
was this the case as regards all that concerned the Vatican and the doings of the Curia. How
well I remember his arched eyebrows and laughing eyes when I told him of Garibaldi's proposal
that all priests should be summarily executed! I think it modified his ideas of the possible
utility of Garibaldi as a politician.

Then comes an invitation to "my Falstaff house at Gadshill."

Here is a letter of the 17th February, 1866, which I will give in extenso, bribed again by
the very flattering words in which the writer speaks of our friendship:--

       *       *       *       *       *

"MY DEAR TROLLOPE,--I am heartily glad to hear from you. It was such a disagreeable surprise
to find that you had left London" [I had been called away at an hour's notice] "on the occasion
of your last visit without my having seen you, that I have never since got it out of my mind.
I felt as if it were my fault (though I don't know how that can have been), and as if I had
somehow been traitorous to the earnest and affectionate regard with which you have inspired me.

"The lady's verses are accepted by the editorial potentate, and shall presently appear." [I
am ashamed to say that I totally forget who the lady was.]

"I am not quite well, and am being touched up (or down) by the doctors. Whether the irritation
of mind I had to endure pending the discussions of a preposterous clerical body called a Convocation,
and whether the weakened hopefulness of mankind which such a dash of the middle ages in the
colour and pattern of 1866 engenders, may have anything to do with it, I don't know.

"What a happy man you must be in having a new house to work at. When it is quite complete,
and the roc's egg hung up, I suppose you will get rid of it bodily and turn to at another."
[Absit omen! At this very moment, while I transcribe this letter, I am turning to at another.]

"Daily News correspondent" [as I then for a short time was], "Novel, and Hospitality! Enough
to do indeed! Perhaps the day might be advantageously made longer for such work--or say life."
[Ah! if the small matters rehearsed had been all, I could more contentedly have put up with
the allowance of four-and-twenty hours.] "And yet I don't know. Like enough we should all do
less if we had time to do more in.

"Layard was with us for a couple of days a little while ago, and brought the last report of
you, and of your daughter, who seems to have made a great impression on him. I wish he had
had the keepership of the National Gallery, for I don't think his Government will hold together
through many weeks.

"I wonder whether you thought as highly of Gibson's art as the lady did who wrote the verses.
I must say that I did not, and that I thought it of a mechanical sort, with no great amount
of imagination in it. It seemed to me as if he 'didn't find me' in that, as the servants say,
but only provided me with carved marble, and expected me to furnish myself with as much idea
as I could afford.

"Very faithfully yours,

"CHARLES DICKENS."

       *       *       *       *       *

I do not remember the verses, though I feel confident that the lady who sent them through me
must have been a very charming person. As to Gibson, no criticism could be sounder. I had a
considerable liking for Gibson as a man, and admiration for his character, but as regards his
ideal productions I think Dickens hits the right nail on the head.

In another letter of the same year, 25th July, after a page of remarks on editorial matters,
he writes:--

       *       *       *       *       *

"If Italy could but achieve some brilliant success in arms! That she does not, causes, I think,
some disappointment here, and makes her sluggish friends more sluggish, and her open enemies
more powerful. I fear too that the Italian ministry have lost an excellent opportunity of repairing
the national credit in London city, and have borrowed money in France for the poor consideration
of lower interest, which" [sic, but I suspect which must be a slip of the pen for than] "they
could have got in England, greatly to the re-establishment of a reputation for public good
faith. As to Louis Napoleon, his position in the whole matter is to me like his position in
Europe at all times, simply disheartening and astounding. Between Prussia and Austria there
is, in my mind (but for Italy), not a pin to choose. If each could smash the other I should
be, as to those two Powers, perfectly satisfied. But I feel for Italy almost as if I were an
Italian born. So here you have in brief my confession of faith.

"Mr. Home" [as he by that time called himself,--when he was staying in my house his name was
Hume], "after trying to come out as an actor, first at Fechter's (where I had the honour of
stopping him short), and then at the St. James's Theatre under Miss Herbert (where he was twice
announced, and each time very mysteriously disappeared from the bills), was announced at the
little theatre in Dean Street, Soho, as a 'great attraction for one night only,' to play last
Monday. An appropriately dirty little rag of a bill, fluttering in the window of an obscure
dairy behind the Strand, gave me this intelligence last Saturday. It is like enough that even
that striking business did not come off, for I believe the public to have found out the scoundrel;
in which lively and sustaining hope this leaves me at present.

"Ever faithfully yours,

"CHARLES DICKENS."

       *       *       *       *       *

Here is a letter which, as may be easily imagined, I value much. It was written on the 2nd
of November, 1866, and reached me at Brest. It was written to congratulate me on my second
marriage, and among the great number which I received on that occasion is one of the most warm-hearted:--

       *       *       *       *       *

"MY DEAR TROLLOPE,--I should have written immediately to congratulate you on your then approaching
marriage, and to assure you of my most cordial and affectionate interest in all that nearly
concerns you, had I known how best to address you.

"No friend that you have can be more truly attached to you than I am. I congratulate you with
all my heart, and believe that your marriage will stand high upon the list of happy ones. As
to your wife's winning a high reputation out of your house--if you care for that; it is not
much as an addition to the delights of love and peace and a suitable companion for life--I
have not the least doubt of her power to make herself famous.

"I little thought what an important master of the ceremonies I was when I first gave your present
wife an introduction to your mother. Bear me in your mind then as the unconscious instrument
of your having given your best affection to a worthy object, and I shall be the best paid master
of the ceremonies since Nash drove his coach and six through the streets of Bath.

"Faithfully yours,

"CHARLES DICKENS."

       *       *       *       *       *

Among a heap of others I find a note of invitation written on the 9th of July, 1867, in which
he says: "My 'readings' secretary, whom I am despatching to America at the end of this week,
will dine with me at Verey's in Regent Street at six exact to be wished God-speed. There will
only be besides, Wills, Wilkie Collins, and Mr. Arthur Chappell. Will you come? No dress. Evening
left quite free."

I went, and the God-speed party was a very pleasant one. But I liked best to have him, as I
frequently had, all to myself. I suppose I am not, as Johnson said, a "clubbable" man. At all
events I highly appreciate what the Irishman called a tatur-tatur dinner, whether the gender
in the case be masculine or feminine; and I incline to give my adherence to the philosophy
of the axiom that declares "two to be company, and three none." But then I am very deaf, and
that has doubtless much to do with it.

On the 10th of September, 1868, Dickens writes:--

       *       *       *       *       *

"The madness and general political bestiality of the General Elections will come off in the
appropriate Guy Fawkes days. It was proposed to me, under very flattering circumstances indeed,
to come in as the third member for Birmingham; I replied in what is now my stereotyped phrase,
'that no consideration on earth would induce me to become a candidate for the representation
of any place in the House of Commons.' Indeed it is a dismal sight, is that arena altogether.
Its irrationality and dishonesty are quite shocking." [What would he have said now!] "How disheartening
it is, that in affairs spiritual or temporal mankind will not begin at the beginning, but will
begin with assumptions. Could one believe without actual experience of the fact, that it would
be assumed by hundreds of thousands of pestilent boobies, pandered to by politicians, that
the Established Church in Ireland has stood between the kingdom and Popery, when as a crying
grievance it has been Popery's trump-card!

"I have now growled out my growl, and feel better.

"With kind regards, my dear Trollope,

"Faithfully yours,

"CHARLES DICKENS."

       *       *       *       *       *

In the December of that year came another growl, as follows:--

       *       *       *       *       *

"KENNEDY'S HOTEL, EDINBURGH.

"MY DEAR TROLLOPE,--I am reading here, and had your letter forwarded to me this morning. The
MS. accompanying it was stopped at All The Year Round office (in compliance with general instructions
referring to any MS. from you) and was sent straight to the printer.

"Oh dear no! Nobody supposes for a moment that the English Church will follow the Irish Establishment.
In the whole great universe of shammery and flummery there is no such idea floating. Everybody
knows that the Church of England as an endowed establishment is doomed, and would be, even
if its hand were not perpetually hacking at its own throat; but as was observed of an old lady
in gloves in one of my Christmas books, 'Let us be polite or die!'

"Anthony's ambition" [in becoming a candidate for Beverley] "is inscrutable to me. Still, it
is the ambition of many men; and the honester the man who entertains it, the better for the
rest of us, I suppose.

"Ever, my dear Trollope,

"Most cordially yours,

"CHARLES DICKENS."

       *       *       *       *       *

Here is another "growl," provoked by a species of charlatan, which he, to whom all charlatans
were odious, especially abominated--the pietistic charlatan:--

       *       *       *       *       *

"Oh, we have such a specimen here! a man who discourses extemporaneously, positively without
the power of constructing one grammatical sentence; but who is (ungrammatically) deep in Heaven's
confidence on the abstrusest points, and discloses some of his private information with an
idiotic complacency insupportable to behold.

"We are going to have a bad winter in England too probably. What with Ireland, and what with
the last new Government device of getting in the taxes before they are due, and what with vagrants,
and what with fever, the prospect is gloomy."

The last letter I ever received from him is dated the 10th of November, 1869. It is a long
letter, but I will give only one passage from it, which has, alas! a peculiarly sad and touching
significance when read with the remembrance of the catastrophe then hurrying on, which was
to put an end to all projects and purposes. I had been suggesting a walking excursion across
the Alps. He writes:--

"Walk across the Alps? Lord bless you, I am 'going' to take up my alpenstock and cross all
the passes. And, I am 'going' to Italy. I am also 'going' up the Nile to the second cataract;
and I am 'going' to Jerusalem, and to India, and likewise to Australia. My only dimness of
perception in this wise is, that I don't know when. If I did but know when, I should be so
wonderfully clear about it all! At present I can't see even so much as the Simplon in consequence
of certain farewell readings and a certain new book (just begun) interposing their dwarfish
shadow. But whenever (if ever) I change 'going' into 'coming,' I shall come to see you.

"With kind regards, ever, my dear Trollope,

"Your affectionate friend,

"CHARLES DICKENS."

       *       *       *       *       *

And those were the last words I ever had from him!

CHAPTER VIII.

In those days--temporibus illis, as the historians of long-forgotten centuries say--there used
to be a very general exodus of the English colony at Florence to the baths of Lucca during
the summer months. Almost all Italians, who can in anywise afford to do so, leave the great
cities nowadays for the seaside, even as those do who have preceded them in the path of modern
luxurious living. But at the time of which I am writing the Florentines who did so were few,
and almost confined to that inner circle of the fashionable world which partly lived with foreigners,
and had adopted in many respects their modes and habits. Those Italians, however, who did leave
their Florence homes in the summer, went almost all of them to Leghorn. The baths of Lucca
were an especially and almost exclusively English resort.

It was possible to induce the vetturini who supplied carriages and horses for the purpose,
to do the journey to the baths in one day, but it was a very long day, and it was necessary
to get fresh horses at Lucca. There was no good sleeping-place between Florence and Lucca--nor
indeed is there such now--and the journey from the capital of Tuscany to that of the little
Duchy of Lucca, now done by rail in less than two hours, was quite enough for a vetturino's
pair of horses. And when Lucca was reached there were still fourteen miles, nearly all collar
work, between that and the baths, so that the plan more generally preferred was to sleep at Lucca.

The baths (well known to the ancient Romans, of course, as what warm springs throughout Europe
were not?) consisted of three settlements, or groups of houses--as they do still, for I revisited
the well-remembered place two or three years ago. There was the "Ponte," a considerable village
gathered round the lower bridge over the Lima, at which travellers from Florence first arrived.
Here were the assembly rooms, the reading room, the principal baths, and the gaming-tables--for
in those pleasant wicked days the remote little Lucca baths were little better than Baden subsequently
and Monte Carlo now. Only we never, to the best of my memory, suicided ourselves, though it
might happen occasionally, that some innkeeper lost the money which ought to have gone to him,
because "the bank" had got hold of it first.

Then secondly there was the "Villa," about a mile higher up the lovely little valley of the
Lima, so called because the Duke's villa was situated there. The Villa had more the pretension--a
very little more--of looking something like a little bit of town. At least it had its one street
paved. The ducal villa was among the woods immediately above it.

The third little group of buildings and lodging-houses was called the "Bagni Caldi." The hotter,
and, I fancy, the original springs were there, and it was altogether more retired and countrified,
nestling closely among the chesnut woods. The whole surrounding country indeed is one great
chesnut forest, and the various little villages, most of them picturesque in the highest degree,
which crown the summits of the surrounding hills, are all of them closely hedged in by the
chesnut woods, which clothe the slopes to the top. These villages burrow in what they live
on like mice in a cheese, for many of the inhabitants never taste any other than chesnut flour
bread from year's end to year's end.

The inhabitants of these hills, and indeed those of the duchy generally, have throughout Italy
the reputation of being morally about the best population in the peninsula. Servants from the
Lucchese, and especially from the district I am here speaking of, were, and are still, I believe,
much prized. Lucca, as many readers will remember, enjoys among all the descriptive epithets
popularly given to the different cities of Italy, that of Lucca la industriosa.

To us migratory English those singularly picturesque villages which capped all the hills, and
were reached by curiously ancient paved mule paths zig-sagging up among the chesnut woods,
seemed to have been created solely for artistic and picnic purposes. The Saturnian nature of
the life lived in them may be conceived from the information once given me by the inhabitants
of one of these mountain settlements in reply to some inquiry about the time of day, that it
was always noon there when the priest was ready for his dinner.

Such were the summer quarters of the English Florentine colony, temporibus illis. There used
to be, I remember, a somewhat amusingly distinctive character attributed, of course in a general
way subject to exceptions, to the different groups of the English rusticating world, according
to the selection of their quarters in either of the above three little settlements. The "gay"
world preferred the "Ponte," where the gaming-tables and ballrooms were. The more strictly
"proper" people went to live at the "Villa," where the English Church service was performed.
The invalid portion of the society, or those who wished quiet, and especially economy, sought
the "Bagni Caldi."

In a general way we all desired economy, and found it. The price at the many hotels was nine
pauls a day for board and lodging, including Tuscan wine, and was as much a fixed and invariable
matter as a penny for a penny bun. Those who wanted other wine generally brought it with them,
by virtue of a ducal ordinance which specially exempted from duty all wine brought by English
visitors to the Baths.

I dare say, if I were to pass a summer there now, I should find the atmosphere damp, or the
wine sour, or the bread heavy, or the society heavier, or indulge in some such unreasonable
and unseasonable grumbles as the near neighbourhood of four-score years is apt to inspire one
with; but I used to find it amazingly pleasant once upon a time. It is a singular fact, which
the remembrance of those days suggests to me, and which I recommend to the attention of Mr.
Galton and his co-investigators, that the girls were prettier then than they are in these days,
or that there were more of them! The stupid people, who are always discovering subjective reasons
for objective observations, are as impertinent as stupid!

The Duke of Lucca used to do his utmost to make the baths attractive and agreeable. There is
no Duke of Lucca now, as all the world knows. The Congress of Vienna put an end to him by ordaining
that, when the ducal throne of Parma should become vacant, the reigning Duke of Lucca should
succeed to it, while his duchy of Lucca should be united to Florence. This change took place
while I was still a Florentine. The Duke of Lucca would none of the new dukedom proposed to
him. He abdicated, and his son became Duke of Parma. This son was, in truth, a great ne'er-do-well,
and very shortly got murdered in the streets of his new capital by an offended husband.

The change was most unwelcome to Lucca, and especially to the baths, which had thriven and
prospered under the fostering care of the old Duke. He used to pass every summer there, and
give constant very pleasant, but very little royal, balls at his villa. The Tuscan satirist
Giusti, in the celebrated little poem in which he characterises the different reigning sovereigns
in the peninsula, calls him the Protestant Don Giovanni, and says that in the roll of tyrants
he is neither fish nor flesh.

Of the first two epithets I take it he deserved the second more than the first. His Protestantising
tendencies might, I think, have been more accurately described as non-Catholicising. But people
are very apt to judge in this matter after the fashion of the would-be dramatist, who, on being
assured that he had no genius for tragedy, concluded that he must therefore have one for comedy.
The Duke's Protestantism, I suspect, limited itself to, and showed itself in, his dislike and
resistance to being bothered by the rulers of neighbouring states into bothering anybody else
about their religious opinions. As for his place in the "roll of tyrants," he was always accused
of (or praised for) liberalising ideas and tendencies, which would in those days have very
soon put an end to him and his tiny duchy, if he had attempted to govern it in accordance with
them. As matters were, his "policy," I take it, was pretty well confined to the endeavour to
make his sovereignty as little troublesome to himself or anybody else as possible. His subjects
were very lightly taxed, for his private property rendered him perfectly independent of them
as regarded his own personal expenditure.

The "gayer" part of our little world at the baths used, as I have said, more especially to
congregate at the "Ponte," and the more "proper" portion at the "Villa," for, as I have also
said, the English Church service was performed there, in a hired room, as I remember, when
I first went there. But a church was already in process of being built, mainly by the exertions
of a lady, who assuredly cannot be forgotten by any one who ever knew the Baths in those days,
or for many years afterwards--Mrs. Stisted. Unlike the rest of the world she lived neither
at the "Ponte," nor at the "Villa," nor at the "Bagni Caldi," but at "The Cottage," a little
habitation on the bank of the stream about half-way between the "Ponte" and the "Villa." Also
unlike all the rest of the world she lived there permanently, for the place was her own, or
rather the property of her husband, Colonel Stisted. He was a long, lean, grey, faded, exceedingly
mild, and perfectly gentlemanlike old man; but she was one of the queerest people my roving
life has ever made me acquainted with.

She was the Queen of the Baths. On one occasion at the ducal villa, his Highness, who spoke
English perfectly, said as she entered the room, "Here comes the Queen of the Baths!" "He calls
me his Queen," said she, turning to the surrounding circle with a magnificent wave of the hand
and delightedly complacent smile. It was not exactly that that the Duke had said, but he was
immensely amused, as were we all, for some days afterwards.

She was a stout old lady, with large rubicund face and big blue eyes, surrounded by very abundant
grey curls. She used to play, or profess to play, the harp, and adopted, as she explained,
a costume for the purpose. This consisted of a loose, flowing garment, much like a muslin surplice,
which fell back and allowed the arm to be seen when raised for performance on her favourite
instrument. The arm probably was, or had once been, a handsome one. The large grey head, and
the large blue eyes, and the drooping curls, were also raised simultaneously, and the player
looked singularly like the picture of King David similarly employed, which I have seen as a
frontispiece in an old-fashioned prayer-book. But the specialty of the performance was that,
as all present always said, no sound whatever was heard to issue from the instrument! "Attitude
is everything," as we have heard in connection with other matters; but with dear old Mrs. Stisted
at her harp it was absolutely and literally so to the exclusion of all else!

She and the good old colonel--he was a truly good and benevolent man, and, indeed, I believe
she was a good and charitable woman, despite her manifold absurdities and eccentricities--used
to drive out in the evening among her subjects--her subjects, for neither I nor anybody else
ever heard him called King of the Baths!--in an old-fashioned, very shabby and very high-hung
phaeton, sometimes with her niece Charlotte--an excellent creature and universal favourite--by
her side, and the colonel on the seat behind, ready to offer the hospitality of the place by
his side to any mortal so favoured by the queen as to have received such an invitation.

The poor dear old colonel used to play the violoncello, and did at least draw some more or
less exquisite sounds from it. But one winter they paid a visit to Rome, and the old man died
there. She wished, in accordance doubtless with his desire, to bring back his body to be buried
in the place they had inhabited for so many years, and with which their names were so indissolubly
entwined in the memory of all who knew them--which means all the generations of nomad frequenters
of the Baths for many, many years. The Protestant burial-ground also was recognised as quasi
hers, for it is attached to the church which she was mainly instrumental in building. The colonel's
body therefore was to be brought back from Rome to be buried at Lucca Baths.

But such an enterprise was not the simplest or easiest thing in the world. There were official
difficulties in the way, ecclesiastical difficulties and custom-house difficulties of all sorts.
Where there is a will, however, there is a way. But the way which the determined will of the
Queen of the Baths discovered for itself upon this occasion was one which would probably have
occurred to few people in the world save herself. She hired a vetturino, and told him that
he was to convey a servant of hers to the baths of Lucca, who would be in charge of goods which
would occupy the entire interior of the carriage. She then obtained, what was often accorded
without much difficulty in those days, from both the Pontifical and the Tuscan Governments,
a lascia passare for the contents of the carriage as bonâ fide roba usata--"used up, or second-hand
goods." And under this denomination the poor old colonel, packed in the carriage together with
his beloved violoncello, passed the gates of Rome and the Tuscan frontier, and arrived safely
at the place of his latest destination. The servant who was employed to conduct this singular
operation did not above half like the job entrusted to him, and used to tell afterwards how
he was frightened out of his wits, and the driver exceedingly astonished, by a sudden pom-m-m
from the interior of the carriage, caused by the breaking, in consequence of some atmospheric
change, of one of the strings of the violoncello.

Malicious people used to say that the Queen of the Baths was innocent of all deception as regarded
the custom-house officials; for that if any article was ever honestly described as roba usata,
the old colonel might be so designated.

The queen herself shortly followed (by another conveyance), and was present at the interment,
on which occasion she much impressed the population by causing a superb crimson chair to be
placed at the head of the grave, in order that she might be present without standing during
the service. The chair was well known, because the queen, both at the Baths and at Florence,
was in the habit of sending it about to the houses at which she visited, since she preferred
doing so to incurring the risk of the less satisfactory accommodation her friends might offer her!

If space and the reader's patience would allow of it, I might gossip on of many more reminiscences
of the baths of Lucca, all pleasant or laughable. But I must conclude by the story of a tragedy,
which I will tell, because it is, in many respects, curiously characteristic of the time and place.

The Duke, who, as I have said, spoke English perfectly well, was fond of surrounding himself
with foreign, and specially English, dependents. He had at the time of which I am speaking,
two English--or rather, one English and one Irish--chamberlains, and a third, who, though a
German, was, from having married an Englishwoman, and habitually speaking English, and living
with Englishmen, much the same, at least to the Duke, as an Englishman. The Englishman was
a young man; the German an older man, and the father of a family. And both were good, upright,
and honourable men; both long since gone over to the majority.

The Irishman, also a young man, was a bad fellow; but he was an especial favourite with the
Duke, who was strongly attached to him. It is not necessary to print his name. He has gone
to his account. But it might nevertheless happen that the printing of my story with his name
in these pages might still give pain to somebody.

There was also that year an extremely handsome and attractive lady, a widow, at the Baths.
I will not give her name either. For though there was no sort of blame or discredit of any
kind attached or attachable to her from any part of my story, as she is, I believe, still living,
and as the memory of that time cannot but be a painful one to her, it is as well to suppress
it. The lady, as I have said, was handsome and young, and of course all the young fellows who
got a chance flirted with her--en tout bien tout honneur. But the Irish chamberlain attached
himself to her, not with any but perfectly avowable intentions, but more seriously than the
other youngsters, and with an altogether serious eye to her very comfortable dower.

Now during that same summer there was at the Baths Mr. Plowden, the banker from Rome. He was
then a young man; he has recently died an old one in the Eternal City. His name I mention in
telling my story because much blame was cast upon him at the time by people in Rome, in Florence,
and at the Baths, who did not know the facts as entirely and accurately as I knew them; and
I am able here to declare publicly what I have often declared privately, that he behaved well
and blamelessly in the whole matter.

And probably, though I have no distinct recollection that it was so, Plowden may have also
been smitten by the lady. Now, whether the Irishman imagined that the young banker was his
most formidable rival, or whether there may have been some previous cause of ill-will between
the two men, I cannot say, but so it was that the chamberlain sent a challenge to the banker.
The latter declined to accept it on the ground that he was a banker and not a fighting man,
and that his business position would have been materially injured by his fighting a duel. The
Irishman might have made the most of this triumph, such as it was. But he was not content with
doing so, and lost none of the opportunities, which the social habits of such a place daily
afforded him, for insulting and outraging his enemy. And he was continually boasting to his
friends that before the end of the season he would compel him to come out and be shot at.

And before the end of the season came, his persistent efforts were crowned with success. Plowden
finding his life altogether intolerable under the harrow of the bully's insolence, at length
one day challenged him. Then arose the question of the locality where the duel was to take
place. The laws of the duchy were very strict against duelling, and the Duke himself was personally
strongly opposed to it. In the case of his own favourite chamberlain, too, his displeasure
was likely to be extreme. But in the neighbourhood of the Baths the frontier line which divides
the Duchy of Modena from that of Lucca is a very irregular and intricate one. A little below
the "Ponte" at the Baths, the Lima falls into the Serchio, and the upper valley of the latter
river is of a very romantic and beautiful character. Now we all knew that hereabouts there
were portions of Modenese territory interpenetrating that of the Duchy of Lucca, but none of
us knew the exact line of the boundary. And the favourite chamberlain, with true Irish impudence,
undertook to obtain exact information from the Duke himself.

There was a ball that night, at which the whole of the society were present, and, strange as
It may seem, I do not think there was a man there who did not know that the duel was to be
fought on the morrow, except the Duke himself. Many of the women even knew it perfectly well.
The chamberlain getting the Duke into conversation on the subject of the frontier, learned
from him that a certain highly romantic gorge, opening out from the valley of the Serchio,
and called Turrite Cava, which he pretended to take an interest in as a place fitted for a
picnic, was within the Modenese frontier.

All was arranged, therefore, for the meeting with pistols on the following morning; and the
combatants proceeded to the spot fixed on, some five or six miles, I think, from the Baths.
Plowden, who, as a sedate business man was less intimate with the generality of the young men
at the Baths, was accompanied only by his second; his adversary was attended by a whole cohort
of acquaintances--really far more after the fashion of a party going to a picnic, or some other
party of pleasure, than in the usual guise of men bent on such an errand.

Plowden had never fired a pistol in his life, and knew about as much of the management of one
as an archbishop. The other was an old duellist, and a practised performer with the weapon.
All this was perfectly well known, and the young men around the Irishman were earnest with
him during their drive to the ground not to take his adversary's life, beseeching him to remember
how heavy a load on his mind would such a deed be during the whole future of his own. Not a
soul of the whole society of the Baths, who by this time knew what was going on to a man, and
almost to a woman (my mother, it may be observed, had not been at the ball, and knew nothing
about it), doubted that Plowden was going out to be shot as certainly as a bullock goes into
the slaughter house to be killed.

The Irishman, in reply to all the exhortations of his companions, jauntily told them not to
distress themselves; he had no intention of killing the fellow, but would content himself with
"winging" him. He would have his right arm off as surely as he now had it on!

In the midst of all this the men were put up. At the first shot the Irishman's well-directed
bullet whistled close to Plowden's head, but the random shot of the latter struck his adversary
full in the groin!

He was hastily carried to a little osteria, which stood (and still stands) by the side of the
road which runs up the valley of the Serchio, at no great distance from the mouth of the Turrite
Cava gorge. There was a young medical man among those gathered there, who shook his head over
the victim, but did not, I thought, seem very well up to dealing with the case.

One of my mother's earliest and most intimate friends at Florence was a Lady Sevestre, who
was then at the Baths with her husband, Sir Thomas Sevestre, an old Indian army surgeon. He
was a very old man, and was not much known to the younger society of the place. But it struck
me that he was the man for the occasion. So I rushed off to the Baths in one of the bagherini
(as the little light gigs of the country are called) which had conveyed the parties to the
ground, and knocked up Sir Thomas. Of course all the story came new to him, and he was very
much inclined to wash his hands of it. But on my representations that a life was at stake,
his old professional habits prevailed, and he agreed to go back with me to Turrite Cava.

But no persuasions could induce him to trust himself to a bagherino. And truly it would have
shaken the old man well-nigh to pieces. There was no other carriage to be had in a hurry. And
at last he allowed me to get an arm-chair rigged with a couple of poles for bearers, and placed
himself in it--not before he had taken the precaution of slinging a bottle of pale ale to either
pole of his equipage. He wore a very wide-brimmed straw hat, a suit of professional black,
and carried a large white sunshade. And thus accoutred, and accompanied by four stalwart bearers,
he started, while I ran by the side of the chair, as queer-looking a party as can well be imagined.
I can see it all now; and should have been highly amused at the time had I not very strongly
suspected that I was taking him to the bedside of a dying man.

And when he reached his patient, a very few minutes sufficed for the old surgeon to pronounce
the case an absolutely hopeless one. After a few hours of agony, the bully, who had insisted
on bringing this fate on himself, died that same afternoon.

Then came the question who was to tell the Duke. Who it was that undertook that disagreeable
but necessary task, I forget. But the Duke came out to the little osteria immediately on hearing
of the catastrophe; also the English clergyman officiating at the Baths came out. And the scene
in that large, nearly bare, upper chamber of the little inn was a strange one. The clergyman
began praying by the dying man's bedside, while the numerous assemblage in the room all kneeled,
and the Duke kneeled with them, interrupting the prayers with his sobs after the uncontrolled
fashion of the Italians.

He was very, very angry. But in unblushing defiance of all equity and reason, his anger turned
wholly against Plowden, who, of course, had placed himself out of the small potentate's reach
within a very few minutes after the catastrophe. But the Duke strove by personal application
to induce the Grand Duke of Tuscany to banish Plowden from his dominions, which, to the young
banker, one branch of whose business was at Florence and one at Rome, would have been a very
serious matter. But this, poor old ciuco, more just and reasonable in this case than his brother
potentate, the Protestant Don Giovanni of Lucca, refused to do.

So our pleasant time at the Baths, for that season at least, ended tragically enough; and whenever
I have since visited that singularly romantic glen of Turrite Cava, its deep rock-sheltered
shadows have been peopled for me by the actors in that day's bloody work.

CHAPTER IX.

It was, to the best of my recollection, much about the same time as that visit of Charles Dickens
which I have chronicled in the last chapter but one, which turned out to be eventually so fateful
a one to me, as the correspondence there given shows, that my mother received another visit,
which was destined to play an equally influential part in the directing and fashioning of my
life. Equally influential perhaps I ought not to say, inasmuch as one-and-twenty years (with
the prospect I hope of more) are more important than seventeen. But both the visits I am speaking
of, as having occurred within a few days of each other, were big with fate, to me, in the same
department of human affairs.

The visit of Dickens was destined eventually to bring me my second wife, as the reader has
seen. The visit of Mr. and Mrs. Garrow to the Via dei Malcontenti, much about the same time,
brought me my first.

The Arno and the Tiber both take their rise in the flanks of Falterona. It was on the banks
of the first that my first married life was passed; on those of the more southern river that
the largest portion of my second wedded happiness was enjoyed.

Why Mr. and Mrs. Garrow called on my mother I do not remember. Somebody had given them letters
of introduction to us, but I forget who it was. Mr. Garrow was the son of an Indian officer
by a high caste Brahmin woman, to whom he was married. I believe that unions between Englishmen
and native women are common enough. But a marriage, such as that of my wife's grandfather I
am assured was, is rare, and rarer still a marriage with a woman of high caste. Her name was
Sultana. I have never heard of any other name. Joseph Garrow, my father-in-law, was sent to
England at an early age, and never again saw either of his parents, who both died young. His
grandfather was an old Scotch schoolmaster at Hadley, near Barnet, and his great-uncle was
the well known Judge Garrow. My father-in-law carried about with him very unmistakable evidence
of his eastern origin in his yellow skin, and the tinge of the white of his eyes, which was
almost that of an Indian. He had been educated for the bar, but had never practised, or attempted
to do so, having while still a young man married a wife with considerable means. He was a decidedly
clever man, especially in an artistic direction, having been a very good musician and performer
on the violin, and a draughtsman and caricaturist of considerable talent. The lady he married
had been a Miss Abrams, but was at the time he married her the widow of (I believe) a naval
officer named Fisher. She had by her first husband one son and one daughter. There had been
three Misses Abrams, Jewesses by race undoubtedly, but Christians by baptism, whose parent
or parents had come to this country in the suite of some Hanoverian minister, in what capacity
I never heard. They were all three exceptionally accomplished musicians, and seem to have been
well known in the higher social circles of the musical world. One of the sisters was the authoress
of many once well known songs, especially of one song called "Crazy Jane," which had a considerable
vogue in its day. I remember hearing old John Cramer say that my mother-in-law could, while
hearing a numerous orchestra, single out any instrument which had played a false note--and
this he seemed to think a very remarkable and exceptional feat. She was past fifty when Mr.
Garrow married her, but she bore him one daughter, and when they came to Florence both girls,
Theodosia, Garrow's daughter, and Harriet Fisher, her elder half-sister, were with them, and
at their second morning call both came with them.

The closest union and affection subsisted between the two girls, and ever continued till the
untimely death of Harriet. But never were two sisters, or half-sisters, or indeed any two girls
at all, more unlike each other.

Harriet was neither specially clever nor specially pretty, but she was, I think, perhaps the
most absolutely unselfish human being I ever knew, and one of the most loving hearts. And her
position was one, that, except in a nature framed of the kindliest clay, and moulded by the
rarest perfection of all the gentlest and self-denying virtues, must have soured, or at all
events crushed and quenched, the individual placed in such circumstances. She was simply nobody
in the family save the ministering angel in the house to all of them. I do not mean that any
of the vulgar preferences existed which are sometimes supposed to turn some less favoured member
of a household into a Cinderella. There was not the slightest shadow of anything of the sort.
But no visitors came to the house or sought the acquaintance of the family for her sake. She
had the dear, and, to her, priceless love of her sister. But no admiration, no pride of father
or mother fell to her share. Her life was not made brilliant by the notice and friendship of
distinguished men. Everything was for the younger sister. And through long years of this eclipse,
and to the last, she fairly worshipped the sister who eclipsed her. Garrow, to do him justice,
was equally affectionate in his manner to both girls, and entirely impartial in every respect
that concerned the material well-being of them. But Theodosia was always placed on a pedestal
on which there was no room at all for Harriet. Nor could the closest intimacy with the family
discover any faintest desire on her part to share the pedestal She was content and entirely
happy in enjoying the reflected brightness of the more gifted sister.

Nor would perhaps a shrewd judge, whose estimate of men and women had been formed by observation
of average humanity, have thought that the position which I have described as that of the younger
of these two sisters, was altogether a morally wholesome one for her. But the shrewd judge
would have been wrong. There never was a humbler, as there never was a more loving soul, than
that of the Theodosia Garrow who became, for my perfect happiness, Theodosia Trollope. And
it was these two qualities of humbleness and lovingness that, acting like invincible antiseptics
on the moral nature, saved her from all "spoiling,"--from any tendency of any amount of flattery
and admiration to engender selfishness or self-sufficiency. Nothing more beautiful in the way
of family affection could be seen than the tie which united in the closest bonds of sisterly
affection those two so differently constituted sisters. Very many saw and knew what Theodosia
was as my wife. Very few indeed ever knew what she was in her own home as a sister.

When I married Theodosia Garrow she possessed just one thousand pounds in her own right, and
little or no prospect of ever possessing any more; while I on my side possessed nothing at
all, save the prospect of a strictly bread and cheese competency at the death of my mother,
and "the farm which I carried under my hat," as somebody calls it. The marriage was not made
with the full approbation of my father-in-law; but entirely in accordance with the wishes of
my mother, who simply, dear soul, saw in it, what she said, that "Theo" was of all the girls
she knew, the one she should best like as a daughter-in-law. And here again the wise folks
of the world (and I among them!) would hardly have said that the step I then took was calculated,
according to all the recognised chances and probabilities of human affairs, to lead to a life
of contentment and happiness. I suppose it ought not to have done so! But it did! It would
be monstrously inadequate to say that I never repented it. What should I not have lost had
I not done it!

As usual my cards turned up trumps! but they began to do so in a way that caused me much, and
my wife more, grief at the time. Within two years after my marriage, poor, dear, good, loving
Harriet caught small-pox and died! She was much more largely endowed than her half-sister,
to whom she bequeathed all she had.

She had a brother, as I have said above. But he had altogether alienated himself from his family
by becoming a Roman Catholic priest There was no open quarrel. I met him frequently in after
years at Garrow's table at Torquay, and remember his bitter complaints that he was tempted
by the appearance of things at table which he ought not to eat. It would have been of no use
to give or bequeath money to him, for it would have gone immediately to Romanist ecclesiastical
purposes. He had nearly stripped himself of his own considerable means, reserving to himself
only the bare competence on which a Catholic priest might live. He was altogether a very queer
fish! I remember his coming to me once in tearful but very angry mood, because, as he said,
I had guilefully spread snares for his soul! I had not the smallest comprehension of his meaning
till I discovered that his woe and wrath were occasioned by my having sent him as a present
Berington's Middle Ages. I had fancied that his course of studies and line of thought would
have made the book interesting to him, utterly ignorant or oblivious of the fact that it laboured
under the disqualification of appearing in the Index.

I take it I knew little about the Index in those days. In after years, when three or four of
my own books had been placed in its columns, I was better informed. I remember a very elegant
lady who having overheard my present wife mention the fact that a recently published book of
mine had been placed in the Index, asked her, with the intention of being extremely polite
and complimentary, whether her (my wife's) books had been put in the Index. And when the latter
modestly replied that she had not written anything that could merit such a distinction, her
interlocutor, patting her on the shoulder with a kindly and patronising air, said "Oh! my dear,
I am sure they will be placed there. They certainly ought to be!"

Mrs. Garrow, my wife's mother, was not, I think, an amiable woman. She must have been between
seventy and eighty when I first knew her; but she was still vigorous, and had still a pair
of what must once have been magnificent, and were still brilliant and fierce black eyes. She
was in no wise a clever woman, nor was our dear Harriet a clever girl. Garrow on the other
hand and his daughter were both very markedly clever, and this produced a closeness of companionship
and alliance between the father and daughter which painfully excited the jealousy of the wife
and mother. But it was totally impossible for her to cabal with her daughter against the object
of her jealousy. Harriet always seeking to be a peacemaker, was ever, if peace could not be
made, stanchly on Theo's side. I am afraid that Mrs. Garrow did not love her second daughter
at all; and I am inclined to suspect that my marriage was in some degree facilitated by her
desire to get Theo out of the house. She was a very fierce old lady, and did not, I fear, contribute
to the happiness of any member of her family.

How well I remember the appearance of Mr. and Mrs. Garrow, and those two girls in my mother's
drawing-room in the Via dei Malcontenti. The two girls, I remember, were dressed exactly alike
and very dowdily. They had just arrived in Florence from Tours, I think, where they had passed
a year, or perhaps two, since quitting "The Braddons" at Torquay; and everything about them
from top to toe was provincial, not to say shabby. It was a Friday, my mother's reception day,
and the room soon filled with gaily dressed and smart people, with more than one pretty girl
among them. But I had already got into conversation with Theodosia Garrow, and, to the gross
neglect of my duties as master of the house, and to the scandal of more than one fair lady,
so I remained, till a summons more than twice repeated by her father took her away.

It was not that I had fallen in love at first sight, as the phrase is, by any means. But I
at once felt that I had got hold of something of a quite other calibre of intelligence from
anything I had been recently accustomed to meet with in those around me, and with a moral nature
that was sympathetic to my own. And I found it very delightful. It is no doubt true that, had
her personal appearance been other than it was, I should not probably have found her conversation
equally delightful. But I am sure that it is equally true that had she been in face, figure,
and person all she was, and at the same time stupid, or even not sympathetic, I should not
have been equally attracted to her.

She was by no means what would have been recognised by most men as a beautiful girl. The specialties
of her appearance, in the first place, were in a great measure due to the singular mixture
of races from which she had sprung. One half of her blood was Jewish, one quarter Scotch, and
one quarter pure Brahmin. Her face was a long oval, too long and too lanky towards the lower
part of it for beauty. Her complexion was somewhat dark, and not good. The mouth was mobile,
expressive, perhaps more habitually framed for pathos and the gentler feelings, than for laughter.
The jaw was narrow, the teeth good and white, but not very regular. She had a magnificent wealth
of very dark brown hair, not without a gleam here and there of what descriptive writers, of
course, would call gold, but which really was more accurately copper colour. And this grand
and luxuriant wealth of hair grew from the roots on the head to the extremity of it, at her
waist, when it was let down, in the most beautiful ripples. But the great feature and glory
of the face were the eyes, among the largest I ever saw, of a deep clear grey, rather deeply
set, and changing in expression with every impression that passed over her mind. The forehead
was wide, and largely developed both in those parts of it which are deemed to indicate imaginative
and idealistic power, and those that denote strongly marked perceptive and artistic faculties.
The latter perhaps were the more prominently marked. The Indian strain showed itself in the
perfect gracefulness of a very slender and elastic figure, and in the exquisite elegance and
beauty of the modelling of the extremities.

That is not the description of a beautiful girl. But it is the fact that the face and figure
very accurately so described were eminently attractive to me physically, as well as the mind
and intelligence, which informed them, were spiritually. They were much more attractive to
me than those of many a splendidly beautiful girl, the immense superiority of whose beauty
nobody knew better than I. Why should this have been so? That is one of the mysteries to the
solution of which no moral or physical or psychical research has ever brought us an iota nearer.

I am giving here an account of the first impression my future wife made on me. I had no thought
of wooing and winning her, for, as I have said, I was not in a position to marry. Meanwhile
she was becoming acclimatised to Florentine society. She no longer looked dowdy when entering
a room, but very much the reverse; and the little Florentine world began to recognise that
they had got something very much like a new Corinne among them. But of course I rarely got
a chance of monopolising her as I had done during that first afternoon. We were however constantly
meeting, and were becoming ever more and more close friends. When the Garrows left Florence
for the summer, I visited them at Lucerne, and subsequently met them at Venice. It was the
year of the meeting of the Scientific Congress in that city.

That was a pleasant autumn in Venice! By that time I had become pretty well over head and ears
in love with the girl by whose side I generally contrived to sit in the gondolas, in the Piazza
in the evening, etcaetera. It was lovely September weather--just the time for Venice. The summer
days were drawing in, but there was the moon, quite light enough on the lagoons; and we were
a great deal happier than the day was long.

Those Scientific Congresses, of which that at Venice was the seventh and the last, played a
curious part, which has not been much observed or noted by historians, in the story of the
winning of Italian independence. I believe that the first congress, at Pisa, I think, was really
got up by men of science, with a view to furthering their own objects and pursuits. It was
followed by others in successive autumns at Lucca, Milan, Genoa, Naples, Florence, and this
seventh and last at Venice. But Italy was in those days thinking of other matters than science.
The whole air was full of ideas, very discordant all of them, and vague most of them, of political
change. The governments of the peninsula thought twice, and more than twice, before they would
grant permission for the first of these meetings. Meetings of any kind were objects of fear
and mistrust to the rulers. Those of Tuscany, who were by comparison liberal, and, as known
to be such, were more or less objects of suspicion to the Austrian, Roman, and Neapolitan Governments,
led the way in giving the permission asked for; and perhaps thought that an assembly of geologists,
entomologists, astronomers, and mathematicians might act as a safety valve, and divert men's
minds from more dangerous subjects. But the current of the times was running too strongly to
be so diverted, and proved too much for the authorities and for the real men of science, who
were, at least some of them, anxious to make the congresses really what they professed to be.

Gradually these meetings became more and more mere social gatherings in outward appearance,
and revolutionary propagandist assemblies in reality. As regards the former aspect of them,
the different cities strove to outdo each other in the magnificence and generosity of their
reception of their "scientific" guests. Masses of publications were prepared, especially topographical
and historical accounts of the city which played Amphytrion for the occasion, and presented
gratuitously to the members of the association. Merely little guide-books, of which a few hundred
copies were needed in the case of the earlier meetings, they became in the case of the latter
ones at Naples, Genoa, Milan, and Venice, large and magnificently printed tomes, prepared by
the most competent authorities and produced at a very great expense.

Venice especially outdid all her rivals, and printed an account of the Queen of the Adriatic,
embracing history, topography, science in all its branches, and artistic story, in four huge
and magnificent volumes, which remains to the present day by far the best topographical monograph
that any city of the peninsula possesses. This truly splendid work, which brought out in the
ordinary way could not have been sold for less than six or eight guineas, was presented, together
with much other printed matter--an enormous lithographed panorama of Venice and her lagoons
some five feet long in a handsome roll cover, I remember among them--to every "member" on his
enrolment as such.

Then there were concerts, and excursions, and great daily dinners the gayest and most enjoyable
imaginable, at which both sexes were considered to be equally scientific and equally welcome.
The dinners were not absolutely gratuitous, but the tickets for them were issued at a price
very much inferior to the real cost of the entertainment. And all this it must be understood
was done not by any subscription of members scientific or otherwise, but by the city and its
municipality; the motive for such expenditure being the highly characteristic Italian one,
of rivalling and outdoing in magnificence other cities and municipalities, or in the historical
language of Italy, "communes."

Old Rome, with her dependent cities, made no sign during all these autumns of ever increasing
festivity. Pity that they should have come to an end before she did so; for at the rate at
which things were going, we should all at least have been crowned on the Capitol, if not made
Roman senators, pour l'amour du Grec, as the savant says in the Précieuses Ridicules, if we
had gone to the Eternal City!

But the fact was, that the soi-disant 'ologists kicked up their heels a little too audaciously
at Venice under Austria's nose; and the Government thought it high time to put an end to "science."

For instance, Prince Canino made his appearance in the uniform of the Roman National Guard!
This was a little too much; and the Prince, all prince and Buonaparte as he was, was marched
off to the frontier. Canino had every right to be there as a man of science; for his acquirements
in many branches of science were large and real; and specially as an entomologist he was known
to be probably the first in Italy. But he was the man, who, when selling his principality of
Canino, insisted on the insertion in the legal instrument of a claim to an additional five
pauls (value about two shillings), for the title of prince which was attached to the possessor
of the estates he was selling. He was an out-and-out avowed Republican, and was the blackest
of black sheep to all the constituted governments of the peninsula. He looked as little as
he felt and thought like a prince. He was a paunchy, oily-looking black haired man, whose somewhat
heavy face was illumined by a brilliant black eye full of humour and a mouth expressive of
good nature and bonhomie. His appearance in the proscribed uniform might have been considered
by Austria, if her police authorities could have appreciated the fun of the thing, as wholesomely
calculated to throw ridicule on the hated institution. He was utterly unassuming, and good-natured
in his manner, and when seen in his ordinary black habiliments looked more like a well-to-do
Jewish trader than anything else.

As for the social aspects of these Scientific Congresses, they were becoming every year more
festive, and, at all events to the ignoramus outsiders who joined them, more pleasant. My good
cousin and old friend, then Colonel, now General, Sir Charles Trollope, was at Venice that
autumn. I said on meeting him, "Now the first thing is to, make you a member." "Me! a member
of a Scientific Congress!" said he. "God bless you! I am as ignorant as a babe of all possible
'epteras and 'opteras, and 'statics and 'matics!" "Oh! nonsense! we are all men of science
here! Come along!"--i.e., to the ducal palace to be inscribed. "But what do you mean to tell
them I am?" he asked. "Well! let's see! You must have superintended a course of instruction
in the goose-step in your day?" "Rather so!" said he. "Very well, then. You are Instructor
in Military Exercises in her B.M. Forces! You are all right! Come along!" And if I had said
that he was Trumpeter Major of the 600th Regiment in the British Army, it would doubtless have
been equally all right. So said, so done! And I see his bewildered look now, as the four huge
volumes, about a load for a porter, to which he had become entitled, together with medals and
documents of many kinds, were put into his arms.

Ah! those were pleasant days! And while Italy, under the wing of science, was plotting her
independence, I was busy in forging the chains of that dependence which was to be a more unmixed
source of happiness to me, than the independence which Italy was compassing has yet proved to her.

Those chains, however, as regarded at all events the outward and visible signs of them, had
not got forged yet. I certainly had no "proposed" to Theodosia. In fact, to the very best of
my recollection I never did "propose" to her--or "pop," as the hideous phrase is--any decisive
question at all. We seem, to my recollection, to have come gradually, insensibly, and mutually
to consider it a matter of course that what we wanted was to be married, and that the only
matter which needed any words or consideration was the question, how the difficulties in the
way of our wishes were to be overcome.

In the autumn of 1847 my mother and I went to pass the winter in Rome. My sister Cecilia's
health had been failing; and it began to be feared that there was reason to suspect the approach
of the malady which had already destroyed my brother Henry and my younger sister Emily. It
was decided therefore that she should pass the winter in Rome. Her husband's avocations made
it impossible for him to accompany her thither, and my mother therefore took an apartment there
to receive her. It was in a small palazzo in that part of the Via delle Quattro Fontane, which
is now situated between the Via Nazionale and the Church of Santa Maria Maggiore, to the left
of one going towards the latter. There was no Via Nazionale then, and the buildings which now
make the Via delle Quattro Fontane a continuous line of street existed only in the case of
a few isolated houses and convents. It was a very comfortable apartment, roomy, sunny, and
quiet. The house exists still, though somewhat modernised in outward appearance, and is, I
think, the second, after one going towards Santa Maria Maggiore has crossed the new Via Nazionale.

But the grand question was, whether it could be brought about that Theodosia Garrow should
be permitted to be my mother's guest during that winter. A hint on the matter was quite sufficient
for my dear mother, although I do not think that she had yet any idea that I was minded to
give her a daughter-in-law. Theodosia's parents had certainly no faintest idea that anything
more than ordinary friendship existed between me and their daughter, or, if they had had such,
she would certainly have never been allowed to accept my mother's invitation. As for Theodosia
herself and her willingness to come, it seems to me, as I look back, that nothing was said
between us at all, any more than anything was said about making her my wife. I think it was
all taken for granted, sans mot dire, by both of us. But there was one person who knew all
about it; knew what was in both our hearts, and was eagerly anxious that the desire of them
should be fulfilled. This was the good fairy Harriet Fisher. Without the strenuous exertion
of her influence on her mother and Mr. Garrow, the object would hardly have been accomplished.
Of course the plea put forward was the great desirability of taking advantage of such an opportunity
of seeing Rome.

My sister, whose health, alas! profited nothing by that visit to Rome, and could have been
profited by no visit to any place on earth, became strongly attached to Theodosia; and the
affection which grew up between them was the more to the honour of both of them, in that they
were far as the poles asunder in opinions and habits of thought. My sister was what in those
days was called a "Puseyite." Her opinions were formed on the highest High Church model, and
her Church opinions made the greatest part, and indeed nearly the whole of her life. Theodosia
had no Church opinions at all, High or Low! All her mind and interests were, at all events
at that time, turned towards poetry and art. Subsequently she interested herself keenly in
political and social questions, but had hardly at that time begun to do so. But she made a
conquest of my sister.

Indeed it would have been very difficult for any one to live in the same house with her without
loving her. She was so bright, her sympathies so ready, her intelligence so large and varied,
that day after day her presence and her conversation were a continual delight; and she was
withal diffident of herself, gentle and unassuming to a fault. My mother had already learned
to love her truly as a daughter, before there was any apparent probability of her becoming one.

We did not succeed in bearing down all the opposition that in the name of ordinary prudence
was made to our marriage, till the spring of forty-eight. We were finally married on the 3rd
of April in that year, in the British Minister's chapel in Florence, in the quiet, comfortable
way in which we used to do such things in those days.

I told my good friend Mr. Plunkett (he had then become the English representative at the Court
of Tuscany), that I wanted to be married the next day. "All right!" said he; "will ten o'clock
do?" "Could not be better!" "Very good! Tell Robbins [the then English clergyman] I'll be sure
to be there." So at ten the next morning we looked in at the Palazzo Ximenes, and in about
ten minutes the business was done!

Of Mr. Robbins, who was as kind and good a little man as could be, I may note, since I have
been led to speak of him, the following rather singular circumstance. He was, as I have been
told, the son of a Devonshire farmer, and his two sisters were the wives of two of the principal
Florentine nobles, one having married the Marchese Inghirami and the other the Marchese Bartolomei.
What circumstances led to the accomplishment of a destiny apparently so strange for the family
of a Devonshire farmer, I never heard. The clergyman and his sisters were all much my seniors.

After the expeditious ceremony we all--about half a score of us--went off to breakfast at the
house of Mr. Garrow in the Piazza di Santa Maria Novella, and before noon my wife and I were
off on a ramble among the Tuscan cities.

CHAPTER X.

My very old friend, Colonel Grant--General Grant many years before he died--used to say that
if he wished without changing his place himself, to see the greatest possible number of his
friends and acquaintances, he should stand perpetually at the foot of the column in the Place
Vendôme. But it seems to me that at least as advantageous a post of observation for the purpose
would be the foot of Giotto's tower in Florence! Who in these days lives and dies without going
to Florence; and who goes to Florence without going to gaze on the most perfectly beautiful
tower that human hands ever raised?

Let me tell (quite parenthetically) a really good story of that matchless building, which yet
however will hardly be appreciated at its full value by those who have never yet seen it. When
the Austrian troops were occupying Florence, one of the white-coated officers had planted himself
in the Piazza in front of the tower, and was gazing at it earnestly, lost in admiration of
its perfect beauty. "Si svita, signore," said a little street urchin, coming up behind him--"It
unscrews, sir!" As much as to say, "Wouldn't you like just to take it off bodily and carry
it away?" But, as I said, to apprehend the aptitude of the gamin's sneer, one must have oneself
looked on the absolute perfection of proportion and harmony of its every part, which really
does suggest the idea that the whole might be lifted bodily in one piece from its place on
the soil Whether the Austrian had the wit to answer "You are blundering, boy! you are taking
me for a Frenchman," I don't know!

But I was saying, when the mention of the celebrated tower led me into telling, before I forgot
it, the above story, that Florence was of all the cities of Europe, that in which one might
be likely to see the greatest number of old, and make the greatest number of new acquaintances.
I lived there for more than thirty years, and the number of persons, chiefly English, American,
and Italian, whom I knew during that period is astonishing. The number of them was of course
all the greater from the fact that the society, at least so far as English and Americans were
concerned, was to a very great degree a floating one. They come back to my memory, when I think
of those times, like a long procession of ghosts! Most of them, I suppose, are ghosts by this
time. They pass away out of one's ken, and are lost!

Some, thank Heaven, are not lost; and some though lost, will never pass out of ken! If I were
writing only for myself, I should like to send my memory roving among all that crowd of phantoms,
catch them one after another as they dodge about half eluding one when just on the point of
recovering them, and, fixing them in memory's camera, photograph them one after another. But
I cannot hope that such a gallery would be as interesting to the reader as it certainly would
to me. And I must content myself with recording my recollections of those among them in whom
the world may be supposed to take an interest.

Theodosia Garrow, when living with her parents at "The Braddons," at Torquay, had known Elizabeth
Barrett. The latter was very much of an invalid at the time; so much so, as I think I have
gathered from my wife's talk about those times, as to have prevented her from being a visitor
to "The Braddons." But Theodosia was, I take it, to be very frequently found by the side of
the sofa to which her friend was more or less confined. I fancy that Mr. Kenyon, who was an
old friend and family connection of Elizabeth Barrett's family, and was also intimately acquainted
with the Garrows and with Theodosia, must have been the first means of bringing the girls together.
There were assuredly very few young women in England at that day to whom Theodosia Garrow in
social intercourse would have had to look up, as to one on a higher intellectual level than
her own. But Elizabeth Barrett was one of them. I am not talking of acquirements. Nor was my
wife thinking of such when she used to speak of the poetess as she had known her at that time.
I am talking, as my wife used to talk, of pure native intellectual power. And I consider it
to have been no small indication of the capacity of my wife's intelligence, that she so clearly
and appreciatingly recognised and measured the distance between her friend's intellect and
her own. But this appreciation on the one side was in nowise incompatible with a large and
generous amount of admiration on the other. And many a talk in long subsequent years left with
me the impression of the high estimation which the gifted poetess had formed of the value of
her highly, but not so exceptionally, gifted admirer.

Of course this old friendship paved the way for a new one when the Brownings came to live in
Florence. I flatter myself that that would in any case have found some raison d'être. But the
pleasure of the two girls--girls no more in any sense--in meeting again quickened the growth
of an intimacy which might otherwise have been slower in ripening.

To say that amid all that frivolous, gay, giddy, and, it must be owned, for the most part very
unintellectual society (in the pleasures and pursuits of which, to speak honestly, I took,
well pleased, my full share), my visits to Casa Guidi were valued by me as choice morsels of
my existence, is to say not half enough. I was conscious even then of coming away from those
visits a better man, with higher views and aims. And pray, reader, understand that any such
effect was not produced by any talk or look or word of the nature of preaching, or anything
approaching to it, but simply by the perception and appreciation of what Elizabeth Barrett
Browning was; of the immaculate purity of every thought that passed through her pellucid mind,
and the indefeasible nobility of her every idea, sentiment, and opinion. I hope my reader is
not so much the slave of conventional phraseology as to imagine that I use the word "purity"
in the above sentence in its restricted and one may say technical, sense. I mean the purity
of the upper spiritual atmosphere in which she habitually dwelt; the absolute disseverance
of her moral as well as her intellectual nature from all those lower thoughts as well as lower
passions which smirch the human soul. In mind and heart she was white--stainless. That is what
I mean by purity.

Her most intimate friend at Florence was a Miss Isabella Blagden, who lived for many years
at Bellosguardo, in a villa commanding a lovely view over Florence and the valley of the Arno
from the southern side, looking across it therefore to Fiesole and its villa-and-cypress-covered
slopes. Whether the close friendship between Mrs. Browning and Isa Blagden (we all called her
Isa always) was first formed in Florence, or had its commencement at an earlier date, I do
not know. But Isa was also the intimate and very specially highly-valued friend of my wife
and myself. And this also contributed to our common friendship. Isa was (yes, as usual, "was,"
alas, though she was very much my junior) a very bright, very warm-hearted, very clever little
woman, who knew everybody, and was, I think, more universally beloved than any other individual
among us. A little volume of her poems was published after her untimely death. They are not
such as could take by storm the careless ears of the world, which knows nothing about her,
and must, I suppose, be admitted to be marked by that mediocrity which neither gods nor men
can tolerate. But it is impossible to read the little volume without perceiving how choice
a spirit the authoress must have been, and understanding how it came to pass that she was especially
honoured by the close and warm attachment of Mrs. Browning. I have scores of letters signed
"Isa," or rather Sibylline leaves scrawled in the vilest handwriting on all sorts of abnormal
fragments of paper, and despatched in headlong haste, generally concerning some little projected
festivity at Bellosguardo, and advising me of the expected presence of some stranger whom she
thought I should like to meet. Very many of such of these fragmentary scribblings, as were
written before the Brownings left Florence, contain some word or reference to her beloved "Ba,"
for such was the pet name used between them, with what meaning or origin I know not.

Dear Isa's death was to me an especially sad one, because I thought, and think, that she need
not have died. She lived alone with a couple of old servants, and though she was rich in troops
of friends, and there were one or two near her during the day or two of her illness, they did
not seem to have managed matters wisely. Our Isa was extremely obstinate about calling in medical
advice. It could not be done at a moment's notice, for a message had to be sent and a doctor
to come from Florence. And this was not done till the second day of her illness. And I had
good reason for thinking that, had she been properly attended to on the first day, her life
might have been saved. She would not let her friends send for the doctor, and the friends were
unable to make her do so. Unhappily, I was absent for a few days at Siena, and returned to
be met by the intelligence that she was dead. It seemed the more sad in that I knew that if
I had been there I could have made her call a doctor before it was too late. Browning could
also have done so; but it was after the death of Mrs. Browning and his departure from Florence.

How great her sorrow was for the death of her friend, Browning knew, doubtless, but nobody
else, I think, in the world save myself.

I have now before me one of her little scraps of letters, in which she encloses one from Mrs.
Browning which is of the highest interest. The history and genesis of it is as follows. Shortly
after the publication of the well-known and exquisite little poem on the god Pan in the Cornhill
Magazine, my brother Anthony wrote me a letter venturing to criticise it, in which he says:
"The lines are very beautiful, and the working out of the idea is delicious. But I am inclined
to think that she is illustrating an allegory by a thought, rather than a thought by an allegory.
The idea of the god destroying the reed in making the instrument has, I imagine, given her
occasion to declare that in the sublimation of the poet the man is lost for the ordinary purposes
of man's life. It has been thus instead of being the reverse; and I can hardly believe that
she herself believes in the doctrine which her fancy has led her to illustrate. A man that
can be a poet is so much the more a man in becoming such, and is the more fitted for a man's
best work. Nothing is destroyed, and in preparing the instrument for the touch of the musician
the gods do nothing for which they need weep. The idea however is beautiful, and it is beautifully
worked."

Then follows some verbal criticism which need not be transcribed. Going on to the seventh stanza
he says, "In the third line of it, she loses her antithesis. She must spoil her man, as well
as make a poet out of him--spoil him as the reed is spoilt. Should we not read the lines thus:--

  "'Yet one half beast is the great god Pan
  Or he would not have laughed by the river.
  Making a poet he mars a man;
  The true gods sigh,' &c."?

In justice to my brother's memory I must say that this was not written to me with any such
presumptuous idea as that of offering his criticism to the poetess. But I showed the letter
to Isa Blagden, and at her request left it with her. A day or two later, she writes to me:
"Dear friend,--I send you back your criticism and Mrs. B.'s rejoinder. She made me show it
to her, and she wishes you to see her answer." Miss Blagden's words would seem to imply that
she thought the criticism mine. And if she did, Mrs. Browning was doubtless led to suppose
so too. Yet I think this could hardly have been the case.

Of course my only object in writing all this here is to give the reader the great treat of
seeing Mrs. Browning's "rejoinder." It is very highly interesting:--

       *       *       *       *       *

"DEAREST ISA,--Very gentle my critic is; I am glad I got him out of you. But tell dear Mr.
Trollope he is wrong nevertheless" [here it certainly seems that she supposed the criticism
to be mine]; "and that my 'thought' was really and decidedly anterior [sic] to my 'allegory.'
Moreover, it is my thought still. I meant to say that the poetic organisation implies certain
disadvantages; for instance an exaggerated general susceptibility, ...[1] which may be shut
up, kept out of the way in every-day life, and must be (or the man is 'marred' indeed, made
a Rousseau or a Byron of), but which is necessarily, for all that, cultivated in the very cultivation
of art itself. There is an inward reflection and refraction of the heats of life ...[1] doubling
pains and pleasures, doubling therefore the motives (passions) of life. I have said something
of this in A.L. [Aurora Leigh]. Also there is a passion for essential truth (as apprehended)
and a necessity for speaking it out at all risks, inconvenient to personal peace. Add to this
and much else the loss of the sweet unconscious cool privacy among the 'reeds' ...[1] which
I for one care so much for--the loss of the privilege of being glad or sorry, ill or well,
without a 'notice.' That may have its glory to certain minds. But most people would be glad
to 'stir their tea in silence' when they are grave, and even to talk nonsense (much too frivolously)
when they are merry, without its running the round of the newspapers in two worlds perhaps.
You know I don't invent, Isa. In fact, I am sorely tempted to send Mr. Trollope a letter I
had this morning, as an illustration of my view, and a reply to his criticism. Only this letter
among many begins with too many fair speeches. Still it seems written by somebody in earnest
and with a liking for me. Its main object is to complain of the cowardly morality in Pan. Then
a stroke on the poems before Congress. The writer has heard that I 'had been to Paris, was
fêted by the Emperor, and had had my head turned by Imperial flatteries,' in consequence of
which I had taken to 'praise and flatter the tyrant, and try to help his selfish ambition.'
Well! one should laugh and be wise. But somehow one doesn't laugh. A letter beginning, 'You
are a great teacher of truth,' and ending, 'You are a dishonest wretch,' makes you cold somehow,
and ill disposed towards the satisfactions of literary distinction. Yes! and be sure, Isa,
that the 'true gods sigh,' and have reason to sigh, for the cost and pain of it; sigh only
... don't haggle over the cost; don't grudge a crazia, but.... sigh, sigh ... while they pay
honestly.

"On the other hand, there's much light talking and congratulation, excellent returns to the
pocket from the poem in the Cornhill; pleasant praise from dear Mr. Trollope.... with all drawbacks:
a good opinion from Isa worth its gold--and Pan laughs.

"But he is a beast up to the waist; yes, Mr. Trollope, a beast. He is not a true god.

"And I am neither god nor beast, if you please--only a

"BA."

       *       *       *       *       *

[Footnote 1: These dots do not indicate any hiatus. They exist in the MS. as here given.]

It seems that she certainly imagined me to be the critic; but must have been subsequently undeceived.
I will not venture to say a word on the question of the marring or making of a man which results
from the creation of a poet; but if my brother had known Mrs. Browning as well as I knew her,
he would not have written that he could "hardly believe that she herself believes in the doctrine
that her fancy has led her to illustrate." At all events, the divine afflatus had not so marred
the absolutely single-minded truthfulness of the woman in her as to make it possible that she
should, for the sake of illustrating, however appositely, any fancy however brilliant, put
forth a "doctrine" as believing in it, which she did not believe. It may seem that this is
a foolish making of a mountain out of a molehill; but she would not have felt it to be so.
She had so high a conception of the poet's office and responsibilities that nothing would have
induced her to play at believing for literary purposes any position, or fancy, or imagination,
which she did not in her heart of hearts accept.

There was one subject upon which both my wife and I disagreed in opinion with Mrs. Browning;
and it was a subject which sat very near her heart, and was much occupying all minds at that
time--the phases of Italy's struggle for independence, and especially the part which the Emperor
Napoleon the Third was taking in that struggle, and his conduct towards Italy. We were all
equally "Italianissimi," as the phrase went then; all equally desirous that Italy should accomplish
the union of her disjecta membra, throw off the yoke of the bad governments which had oppressed
her, make herself a nation, and do well as such. But we differed widely as to the ultimate
utility, the probable results, and, above all, as to the motives of the Emperor's conduct.
Mrs. Browning believed in him and trusted him. We did neither. Hence the following interesting
and curious letter, written to my wife at Florence by Mrs. Browning, who was passing the summer
at Siena. Mrs. Browning felt very warmly upon this subject--so indeed did my wife, differing
from her toto coelo upon it. But the difference not only never caused the slightest suspension
of cordial feeling between them, but never caused either of them to doubt for a moment that
the other was with equal sincerity and equal ardour anxious for the same end. The letter was
written, as only the postmark shows, on September 26th, 1859, and was as follows:--

       *       *       *       *       *

"MY DEAR MRS. TROLLOPE,--I feel doubly ungrateful to you ... for the music (one of the proofs
of your multiform faculty) and for your kind and welcome letter, which I have delayed to thank
you for. My body lags so behind my soul always, and especially of late, that you must consider
my disadvantages in whatever fault is committed by me trying to forgive it.

"Certainly we differ in our estimate of the Italian situation, while loving and desiring for
Italy up to the same height and with the same heart.

"For me I persist in looking to facts rather than to words official or unofficial, and in repeating
that, 'whereas we were bound, now we are free.'

"'I think, therefore, I am.' Cogito, ergo sum, was, you know, an old formula. Italy thinks
(aloud) at Florence and Bologna; therefore she is. And how did that happen? Could it have happened
last year, with the Austrians at Bologna, and ready (at a sign) to precipitate themselves into
Tuscany? Could it have happened previous to the French intervention? And could it happen now
if France used the power she has in Italy against Italy? Why is it that the Times newspaper,
which declared ... first that the elections were to be prevented by France, and next that they
were to be tampered with ... is not justified before our eyes? I appeal to your sober judgment
... if indeed the Emperor Napoleon desires the restoration of the Dukes!! Is he not all the
more admirable for being loyal and holding his hand off while he has fifty thousand men ready
to 'protect' us all and prevent the exercise of the people's sovereignty? And he a despot (so
called) and accustomed to carry out his desires. Instead of which Tuscans and Romagnoli, Parma
and Modena, have had every opportunity allowed them to combine, carry their elections, and
express their full minds in assemblies, till the case becomes so complicated and strengthened
that her enemies for the most part despair.

"The qualities shown by the Italians--the calm, the dignity, the intelligence, the constancy
... I am as far from not understanding the weight of these virtues as from not admiring them.
But the opportunity for exercising them comes from the Emperor Napoleon, and it is good and
just for us all to remember this while we admire the most.

"So at least I think; and the Italian official bodies have always admitted it, though individuals
seem to me to be too much influenced by the suspicions and calumnies thrown out by foreign
journals--English, Prussian, Austrian, and others--which traduce the Emperor's motives in diplomacy,
as they traduced them in the war. A prejudice in the eye is as fatal to sight as mote and beam
together. And there are things abroad worse than any prejudices--yes, worse!

"It is a fact that the Emperor used his influence with England to get the Tuscan vote accepted
by the English Government. Whatever wickedness he meant by that the gods know; and English
statesmen suspect ... (or suspected a very short short time ago); but the deed itself is not
wicked, and you and I shall not be severe on it whatever bad motive may be imputable.

"So much more I could write ... about Villafranca, but I won't. The Emperor, great man as he
is, could not precisely anticipate the high qualities given proof of in the late development
of Italian nationality. He made the best terms he could, having had his hand forced. In consequence
of this treaty he has carried out his engagement to Austria in certain official forms, knowing
well that the free will and choice of the Italians are hindered by none of them; and knowing
besides that every apparent coldness and reserve of his towards the peninsula removes a jealousy
from England, and instigates her to a more liberal and human bearing than formerly.

"Forgive me for all these words. I am much better, but still not as strong as I was before
my attack; only getting strength, I hope.

"Miss Blagden and Miss Field are staying still with us, and are gone to Siena to-day to see
certain pictures (which has helped to expose you to this attack). We talk of returning to Florence
by the first of October, or soon after, in spite of the revival of fine weather. Mr. Landor
is surprisingly improved by the good air here and the repose of mind; walks two miles, and
writes alcaics and pentameters on most days ... on his domestic circumstances, and ... I am
sorry to say ... Louis Napoleon. But I tell him that I mean him to write an ode on my side
of the question before we have done.

"I honour you and your husband for the good work you have both done on behalf of this great
cause. But his book[1] we only know yet by the extracts in the Athenaeum, which brings us your
excellent articles. May I not thank you for them? And when does Mr. Trollope come back?" [from
a flying visit to England]. "We hope not to miss him out of Florence long.

[Footnote 1: Tuscany in 1849 and 1859.]

"Peni's love to Bice.[1] He has been very happy here, galloping through the lanes on a pony
the colour of his curls. Then he helps to work in the vineyards and to keep the sheep, having
made close friends with the contadini to whom he reads and explains Dall' Ongaro's poems with
great applause. By the way, the poet paid us a visit lately, and we liked him much.

[Footnote 1: Browning's boy and my girl.]

"And let me tell Bice's mother another story of Penini. But his weak point is spelling.

"Believe me, with my husband's regards,

"Ever truly and affectionately yours,

"ELIZABETH BARRETT BROWNING."

       *       *       *       *       *

It may possibly enter into the mind of some one of those who never enjoyed the privilege of
knowing Mrs. Browning the woman, to couple together the stupidly calumnious insinuations to
which she refers in the first letter I have given, with the admiration she expresses for the
third Napoleon in the second letter. I differed from her wholly in her estimate of the man,
and in her views of his policy with regard to Italy. And many an argument have I had with her
on the subject. And my opinions respecting it were all the more distasteful to her because
they concerned the character of the man himself as well as his policy as a ruler. And those
talks and arguments have left me probably the only man alive, save one, who knows with such
certainty as I know it, and can assert as I can, the absolute absurdity and impossibility of
the idea that she, being what she was, could have been bribed by any amount of Imperial or
other flattery, not only to profess opinions which she did not veritably hold--this touches
her moral nature, perhaps the most pellucidly truthful of any I ever knew--but to hold opinions
which she would not have otherwise held. This touches her intellectual nature, which was as
incapable of being mystified or modified by any suggestion of vanity, self-love, or gratified
pride, as the most judicial-minded judge who ever sat on the bench. Her intellectual view on
the matter was, I thought, mystified and modified by the intensity of her love for the Italian
cause, and of her hatred for the evils from which she was watching the Italians struggling
to liberate themselves.

I heard, probably from herself, of whispered calumnies, such as those she refers to in the
first of the two letters given. She despised them then, as those who loved and valued her did,
though the sensitive womanly gentleness of her nature made it a pain to her that any fellow-creature,
however ignorant and far away from her, should so think of her. And my disgust at a secret
attempt to stab has impelled me to say what I know on the subject. But I really think that
not only those who knew her as she lived In the flesh, but the tens of thousands who know her
as she lives in her written words, cannot but feel my vindication superfluous.

The above long and specially interesting letter is written in very small characters on ten
pages of extremely small duodecimo note-paper, as is also the other letter by the same writer
given above. Mrs. Browning's handwriting shows ever and anon an odd tendency to form each letter
of a word separately--a circumstance which I mention for the sake of remarking that old Huntingford,
the Bishop of Hereford, in my young days, between whom and Mrs. Browning there was one thing
in common, namely, a love for and familiarity with Greek studies, used to write in the same manner.

The Dall' Ongaro here spoken of was an old friend of ours--of my wife's, if I remember right--before
our marriage. He was a Venetian, or rather to speak accurately, I believe, a Dalmatian by birth,
but all his culture and sympathies were Venetian. He had in his early youth been destined for
the priesthood, but like many another had been driven by the feelings and sympathies engendered
by Italy's political struggles to abandon the tonsure for the sake of joining the "patriot"
cause. His muse was of the drawing-room school and calibre. But he wrote very many charming
little poems breathing the warmest aspirations of the somewhat extreme gauche of that day,
especially some stornelli after the Tuscan fashion, which met with a very wide and warm acceptance.
I remember one extremely happy, the refrain of which still runs in my head. It is written on
the newly-adopted Italian tricolour flag. After characterising each colour separately in a
couplet, he ends:--

  "E il rosso, il bianco, e il verde,
  È un terno che si giuoca, e non si perde."

The phrase is borrowed from the language of the lottery. "And the red, and the white, and the
green, are a threefold combination" [I am obliged to be horribly prosaic in order to make the
allusion intelligible to non-Italian ears!] "on which we may play and be sure not to lose!"

I am tempted to give here another of Mrs. Browning's letters to my first wife, partly by the
persuasion that any letter of hers must be a matter of interest to a very large portion of
English readers, and partly for the sake of the generously appreciative criticism of one of
my brother's books, which I also always considered to be one of his best. I must add that Mrs.
Browning's one bit of censure coincides as perfectly with my own judgment. The letter as usual
is dateless, but must have been written very shortly after the publication of my brother's
novel called The Three Clerks.

"My dear Mrs. Trollope,--I return The Three Clerks with our true thanks and appreciation. We
both quite agree with you in considering it the best of the three clever novels before the
public. My husband, who can seldom get a novel to hold him, has been held by all three, and
by this the strongest. Also it has qualities which the others gave no sign of. For instance,
I was wrung to tears by the third volume. What a thoroughly man's book it is! I much admire
it, only wishing away, with a vehemence which proves the veracity of my general admiration,
the contributions to the Daily Delight--may I dare to say it?

"I do hope you are better. For myself, I have not suffered more than was absolutely necessary
in the late unusual weather.

"I heard with concern that Mrs. Trollope" [my mother] "has been less well than usual. But who
can wonder, with such cold?

"Most truly yours,

"Elizabeth Barrett Browning.

"Casa Guidi, Wednesday."

Here is also one other little memorial, written not by "Elizabeth Barrett Browning," but by
"Elizabeth Barrett." It is interesting on more than one account. It bears no date, save "Beacon
Terrace [Torquay], Thursday," But it evidently marks the beginning of acquaintanceship between
the two exceptionally, though not equally gifted girls--Elizabeth Barrett and Theodosia Garrow.
It is written on a sheet of the very small duodecimo note paper which she was wont to use many
years subsequently, but in far more delicate and elegant characters than she used, when much
pen-work had produced its usual deteriorating effect on her caligraphy.

       *       *       *       *       *

"I cannot return the Book of Beauty" [Lady Blessington's annual] "to Miss Garrow without thanking
her for allowing me to read in it sooner than I should otherwise have done, those contributions
of her own which help to justify its title, and which are indeed sweet and touching verses.

"It is among the vexations brought upon me by my illness, that I still remain personally unacquainted
with Miss Garrow, though seeming to myself to know her through those who actually do so. And
I should venture to hope that it might be a vexation the first to leave me, if a visit to an
invalid condemned to the peine forte et dure of being very silent, notwithstanding her womanhood,
were a less gloomy thing. At any rate I am encouraged to thank Miss Fisher and Miss Garrow
for their visits of repeated inquiry, and their other very kind attentions, by these written
words, rather than by a message. For I am sure that wherever kindness can come thankfulness
may, and that whatever intrusion my note can be guilty of, it is excusable by the fact of my
being Miss Garrow's

"Sincerely obliged,

"E. BARRETT."

       *       *       *       *       *

Could anything be more charmingly girlish, or more prettily worded! The diminutive little note
seems to have been preserved, an almost solitary survival of the memorials of the days to which
it belongs. It must doubtless have been followed by sundry others, but was, I suppose, specially
treasured as having been the first step towards a friendship which was already highly valued.

Of course, in the recollections of an Englishman living during those years in Florence, Robert
Browning must necessarily stand out in high relief, and in the foremost line. But very obviously
this is neither the time nor the place, nor is my dose of presumption sufficient for any attempt
at a delineation of the man. To speak of the poet, since I write for Englishmen, would be very
superfluous. It may be readily imagined that the "tag-rag and bobtail" of the men who mainly
constituted that very pleasant but not very intellectual society, were not likely to be such
as Mr. Browning would readily make intimates of. And I think I see in memory's magic glass
that the men used to be rather afraid of him. Not that I ever saw him rough or uncourteous
with the most exasperating fool that ever rubbed a man's nervous system the wrong way; but
there was a quiet, lurking smile which, supported by very few words, used to seem to have the
singular property of making the utterers of platitudes and the mistakers of non-sequiturs for
sequiturs, uncomfortably aware of the nature of their words within a very few minutes after
they had uttered them. I may say, however, that I believe that in any dispute on any sort of
subject between any two men in the place, if it had been proposed to submit the matter in dispute
for adjudication to Mr. Browning, the proposal would have been jumped at with a greater readiness
of consensus than in the case of any other man there.

CHAPTER XI

The Italians, I believe, were "thinking" at a considerably earlier period than that which in
the second letter transcribed in the preceding chapter Mrs. Browning seems to have considered
as the beginning of their "cogitating" existence, and thinking on the subjects to which she
is there adverting. They were "thinking," perhaps, less in Tuscany than in any other part of
the peninsula, for they were eating more and better there. They were very lightly taxed. The
mezzeria system of agriculture, which, if not absolutely the same, is extremely similar to
that which is known as "conacre," rendered the lot of the peasant population very far better
and more prosperous than that of the tillers of the earth in any of the other provinces. And
upon the whole the people were contented. The Tuscan public was certainly not a "pensive public."
They ate their bread not without due condiment of compagnatico,[1] or even their chesnuts in
the more remote and primitive mountain districts, drank their sound Tuscan wine from the generous
big-bellied Tuscan flasks holding three good bottles, and sang their stornelli in cheerfulness
of heart, and had no craving whatsoever for those few special liberties which were denied them.

[Footnote 1: Anything to make the bread "go down," as our people say--a morsel of bacon or
sausage, a handful of figs or grapes, or a bit of cheese.]

Epicuri de grege porci! No progress! Yes, I know all that, and am not saying what should have
been, but what was. There was no progress! The contadini on the little farm which I came to
possess before I left Tuscany cultivated it precisely after the fashion of their grandfathers
and great-grandfathers, and strenuously resisted any suggestion that it could, should, or might
be cultivated in any other way. But my contadino inhabited a large and roomy casa colonica;
he and his buxom wife, had six stalwart sons, and was the richer man in consequence of having
them. No, in my early Florentine days the cogito, ergo sum could not have been predicated of
the Tuscans.

But the condition of things in the other states of the peninsula, in Venice and Lombardy under
the Austrians, in Naples under the Bourbon kings, in Romagna under the Pope, and very specially
in Modena under its dukes of the House of Este, was much otherwise. In those regions the Italians
were "thinking" a great deal, and had been thinking for some time past. And somewhere about
1849, those troublesome members of the body social who are not contented with eating, drinking,
and singing--cantankerous reading and writing people living in towns, who wanted most unreasonably
to say, as the phrase goes, that "their souls were their own" (as if such fee-simple rights
ever fall to the lot of any man!)--began in Tuscany to give signs that they also were "thinking."

I remember well that Albèri, the highly accomplished and learned editor of the Reports of the
Venetian Ambassadors, and of the great edition of Galileo's works, was the first man who opened
my altogether innocent eyes to the fact, that the revolutionary leaven was working in Tuscany,
and that there were social breakers ahead! This must have been as early as 1845, or possibly
1844. Albèri himself was a Throne-and-Altar man, who thought for his part, that the amount
of proprietorship over his own soul which the existing régime allowed him was enough for his
purposes. But, as he confided to me, a very strong current of opinion was beginning to run
the other way in Florence, in Leghorn, in Lucca, and many smaller cities--not in Siena, which
always was, and is still, a nest of conservative feeling.

Nevertheless there never was, at least in Florence, the strength and bitterness of revolutionary
feeling that existed almost everywhere else throughout Italy. I remember a scene which furnished
a very remarkable proof of this, and which was at the same time very curiously and significantly
characteristic of the Florentine character, at least as it then existed.

It was during the time of the Austrian occupation of Florence. On the whole the Austrian troops
behaved well; and their doings, and the spirit in which the job they had in hand was carried
out, were very favourably contrasted with the tyranny, the insults, and the aggressive arrogance,
with which the French army of occupation afflicted the Romans. The Austrians accordingly were
never hated in Florence with the bitter intensity of hate which the French earned in the Eternal
City. Nevertheless, there were now and then occasions when the Florentine populace gratified
their love of a holiday and testified to the purity of their Italian patriotism by turning
out into the streets and kicking up a row.

It was on an occasion of this sort, that the narrow street called Por' Santa Maria, which runs
up from the Ponte Vecchio to the Piazza, was thickly crowded with people. A young lieutenant
had been sent to that part of the town with a small detachment of cavalry to clear the streets.
Judging from the aspect of the people, as his men, coming down the Lung' Arno, turned into
the narrow street, he did not half like the job before him. He thought there certainly would
be bloodshed. And just as his men were turning the corner and beginning to push their horses
into the crowd, one of them slipped sideways on the flagstones, with which, most distressingly
to horses not used to them, the streets of Florence are paved, and came down with his rider
partly under him.

The officer thought, "Now for trouble! That man will be killed to a certainty!" The crowd--who
were filling the air with shouts of "Morte!" "Abbasso l'Austria!" "Morte agli Austriaci!"[1]--crowded
round the fallen trooper, while the officer tried to push forward towards the spot. But when
he got within earshot, and could see also what was taking place, he saw the people immediately
round the fallen man busily disengaging him from his horse! "O poverino! Ti sei fatto male?
Orsu! Non sara niente! Su! A cavallo, eh?"[2] And having helped the man to remount, they returned
to their amusement of roaring "Morte agli Austriaci!" The young officer perceived that he had
a very different sort of populace to deal with from an angry crowd on the other side of the
Alps, or indeed on the other side of the Apennines.

[Footnote 1: "Death! Down with Austria! Death to the Austrians!"]

[Footnote 2: "Oh! Poor fellow! Have you hurt yourself? Up with you! It will be nothing! Up
again on your horse, eh?"]

I remember another circumstance which occurred a few years previously to that just mentioned,
and which was in its way equally characteristic. In one of the principal cafés of Florence,
situated on the Piazza del Duomo--the cathedral yard--a murder was committed. The deed was
done in full daylight, when the café was full of people. Such crimes, and indeed violent crimes
of any sort, were exceedingly rare in Florence. That in question was committed by stabbing,
and the motive of the criminal who had come to Florence for the express purpose of killing
his enemy was vengeance for a great wrong. Having accomplished his purpose he quietly walked
out of the café and went away. I happened to be on the spot shortly afterwards, and inquired,
with some surprise at the escape of the murderer, why he had not been arrested red-handed.
"He had a sword in his hand!" said the person to whom I had addressed myself, in a tone which
implied that that quite settled the matter--that of course it was absolutely out of the question
to attempt to interfere with a man who had a sword in his hand!

It is a very singular thing, and one for which it is difficult to offer any satisfactory explanation,
that the change in Florence in respect to the prevalence of crime has been of late years very
great indeed I have mentioned more than once, I think, the very remarkable absence of all crimes
of violence which characterised Florence in the earlier time of my residence there. It was
not due to rigorous repression or vigilance of the police, as may be partly judged by the above
anecdote. There was, in fact, no police that merited the name. But anything in the nature of
burglary was unheard of. The streets were so absolutely safe that any lady might have traversed
them alone at any hour of the day or night. And I might add to the term "crimes of violence"
the further statement that pocket-picking was equally unheard of.

Now there is perhaps more crime of a heinous character in Florence, in proportion to the population,
than in any city in the peninsula. I think that about the first indication that all that glittered
in the mansuetude of Firenze la Gentile was not gold, showed itself on the occasion of an attempt
to naturalise at Florence the traditional sportiveness of the Roman Carnival. There and then,
as all the world knows, it has been the immemorial habit for the population, high and low,
to pelt the folks in the carriages during their Corso procession with bonbons, bouquets, and
the like. Gradually at Rome this exquisite fooling has degenerated under the influence of modern
notions, till the bouquets having become cabbage stalks, very effective as offensive missiles,
and the bonbons plaster of Paris pellets, with an accompanying substitution of a spiteful desire
to inflict injury for the old horse-play, it has become necessary to limit the duration of
the Saturnalia to the briefest span, with the sure prospect of its being very shortly altogether
prohibited. But at Florence on the first occasion, now several years ago, of an attempt to
imitate the Roman practice, the conduct of the populace was such as to demand imperatively
the immediate suppression of it. The carriages and the occupants of them were attacked by such
volleys of stones and mud, and the animus of the people was so evidently malevolent and dangerous,
that they were at once driven from the scene, and any repetition of the practice was forbidden.

It is so remarkable as to be, at all events, worth noting, that contemporaneously with this
singular deterioration in respect to crime, another social change has taken place in Florence.
La Gentile Firenze has of late years become very markedly the home of clericalism of a high
and aggressive type. This is an entirely new feature in the Florentine social world. In the
old time clerical views were sufficiently supported by the Government to give rise to the famous
Madiai incident, which has been before alluded to. But clericalism in its more aggressive aspects
was not in the ascendant either bureaucratically or socially. The spirit which had informed
the policy and government of the famous Leopoldine laws was still sufficiently alive in the
mental habitudes of both governors and governed to render Tuscany a rather suspected and disliked
region in the mind of the Vatican and of the secular governments which sympathised with the
Vatican's views and sentiments. The change that has taken place is therefore a very notable
one. I have no such sufficiently intimate knowledge of the subject as would justify me in linking
together the two changes I have noticed in the connection of cause and effect. I only note
the synchronism.

On the other hand there are not wanting sociologists who maintain that the cause of the outburst
of lawlessness and crime which has undeniably characterised Florence of late years is to be
sought for exactly in that old-time, easy-going tolerance in religious matters, which they
say is now producing a tardy but sure crop from seeds that, however long in disclosing the
true nature of the harvest to be expected from them, ought never to have been expected by wise
legislators to produce any other.

Non nostrum est tantas componere lites! But Florence is certainly no longer Firenze la Gentile
as she so eminently was in the days when I knew her so well.

Whether any of the other cities of Italy have in any degree ceased to merit the traditional
epithets which so many successive generations assigned to them--how far Genoa is still la Superba,
Bologna la Grassa, Padua la Dotta, Lucca la Industriosa--I cannot say. Venezia is unquestionably
still la Bella. And as for old Rome, she vindicates more than ever her title to the epithet
Eterna, by her similitude to those nursery toys which, throw them about as you will, still
with infallible certitude come down heads uppermost.

As for the Florence of my old recollections, there were in the early days of them many little
old-world sights and sounds which are to be seen and heard no longer, and which differentiated
the place from other social centres.

I remember a striking incident of this sort which happened to my mother and myself "in the
days before the flood," therefore very shortly after our arrival there.

It was the practice in those days to carry the bodies of the dead on open biers, with uncovered
faces, to their burial. It had doubtless been customary in old times so to carry all the dead;
but the custom was retained at the time of which I am writing only in the case of distinguished
persons, and very generally of the priesthood. I remember, for instance, a poor little humpbacked
Grand Duchess being so carried through the street magnificently bedecked as if she were going
to a ball, and with painted cheeks. She had been a beneficent little body, and the people,
as far as they knew anything about her, revered her, and looked on her last presentation to
them with sympathetic feelings. But it was a sorry sight to see the poor little body, looking
much like a bedizened monkey, so paraded.

Well, my mother and I were, aimlessly but much admiringly, wandering about the vast spaces
of the cathedral when we became aware of a funzione of some sort--a service as we should say--being
conducted in a far part of the building. There was no great crowd, but a score or two of spectators,
mainly belonging to the gamin category, were standing around the officiating priests and curiously
looking on. We went towards the spot, and found that the burial service was being performed
over the body of a young priest. The body lay on its back on the open bier, clad in full canonicals
and with the long tasselled cap of the secular clergy on his head. We stood and gazed with
the others, when suddenly I saw the dead man's head slightly move! A shiver, I confess, ran
through me. A moment's reflection, however, reminded me of the recognised deceitfulness of
the eyes in such matters, and I did not doubt that I had been mistaken. But the next minute
I again saw the dead priest slightly shake his head, and this time I was sure that I was not
mistaken. I clutched my mother's arm and pointed, and again saw the awful phenomenon, which
sent a cold wave through both of us from head to foot. But nobody save ourselves seemed to
have seen anything unusual. The service was proceeding in its wonted order. Doubting whether
it might possibly be one of those horrible cases of suspended animation and mistaken death,
I was thinking whether it were not my duty to call attention to the startling thing we had
seen, and had with outstretched neck and peering eyes advanced a step for further observation,
and with the half-formed purpose of declaring aloud that the man was not dead, when I spied
crouched beneath the bier a little monkey, some nine or ten years old, who had taken in his
hand the tassel of the cap, which hung down between the wooden bars which formed the bier,
and was amusing himself with slowly swaying it forwards and backwards, and had thus communicated
the motion to the dead man's head! It was almost impossible to believe that the little urchin
had been able to reach the position he occupied without having been observed by any of the
clerical attendants, of whom several were present, and still more difficult to suppose that
no one of them had seen what we saw, standing immediately in front of the corpse while one
of them performed the rite of lustration with holy water, the vessel containing which was held
by another. But no one interfered, and none but those who know the Florentines as well as I
know them can feel how curiously and intensely characteristic of them was the fact that no
one did so. The awful reverence for death which would have impelled an Englishman of almost
any social position to feel indignation and instantly put a stop to what he would consider
a profanation, was absolutely unknown to all those engaged in that perfunctory rite. A certain
amount of trouble and disturbance would have been caused by dislodging the culprit, and each
man there felt only this; that it didn't matter a straw, and that there was no reason for him
to take the trouble of noticing it. As far as I could observe, the amusement the little wretch
derived from his performance was entirely unsocial, and confined to his own breast; for I could
not see that any of the gamin fraternity noticed it, or cared about it, any more than their
seniors.

I remember another somewhat analogous adventure of mine, equally illustrative of the Florentine
habits of those days. I saw a man suddenly stagger and fall in the street. It was in the afternoon,
and there were many persons in the street, some of them nearer to the fallen man than I was,
but nobody, attempted to help him. I stepped forward to do so, and was about to take hold of
him and try to raise him, when one of the by-standers eagerly caught me by the arm, saying,
"He is dying, he is dying!" "Let us try to raise him," said I, still pressing forward. "You
mustn't, you mustn't! It is not permitted," he added, as he perceived that he was speaking
to a foreigner, and then went on to explain to me that what must be done was to call the Misericordia,
for which purpose one must run and ring a certain bell attached to the chapel of that brotherhood
in the Piazza del Duomo.

Among the many things that have been written of the Florentine Misericordia, I do not think
that I have met with the statement that it used to be universally believed in Florence that
the law gave the black brethren the privilege and the monopoly of picking up any dying or dead
person in the streets, and that it was forbidden to any one else to do so. Whether any such
law really existed I much doubt, but the custom of acting in accordance with it, and the belief
that such practice was imperative, undoubtedly did. And I have no doubt that many a life has
been sacrificed to it. The half hour or twenty minutes which necessarily elapsed before the
Misericordia could be called and answer the call, must often have been supremely important,
and in many cases ought to have been employed in the judicious use of the lancet.

The sight of the black robed and black cowled brethren, as they went about the streets on their
errands of mercy, was common enough in Florence. But the holiday visitor had very little opportunity
of hearing anything of the internal management and rules of that peculiar mediaeval society
or of the nature of the work it did.

The Florentine Misericordia was founded in the days when pestilence was ravaging the city so
fiercely that the dead lay uncared for in the streets, because there was no man sufficiently
courageous to bury or to touch them. The members of the association, which was formed for the
performance of this charitable and arduous duty, chose for themselves a costume, the object
of which was the absolute concealment of the individual performing it. A loose black linen
gown drapes the figure from the neck to the heels, and a black cowl, with two holes cut for
the eyes, covers and effectually conceals the head and face. For more than five hundred years,
up to the present day, the dress remains the same, and no human being, either of those to whom
their services are rendered, or of the thousands who see them going about in the performance
of their self-imposed duty, can know whether the mysterious weird-looking figure he sees be
prince or peasant. He knows that he may be either, for the members of the brotherhood are drawn
from all classes of society.

It used to be whispered, and I have good reasons for believing the whisper to have been true,
that the late Grand Duke was a member, and took his turn of duty with his brethren. Some indiscreet
personal attendant blabbed the secret, for assuredly the Duke himself was never untrue to the
oath which binds the members to secrecy.

The whole society is divided into a number of companies, one of which is by turns on duty.
There is a large, most melancholy and ominously sounding bell in the chapel of the brotherhood
(not that already mentioned by which anybody can call the attention of the brother in permanent
attendance, but a much larger one), which is heard all over the city. This summons the immediate
attendance of every member of the company on duty, and the mysterious black figures may any
day be seen hurrying to the rendezvous. There they learn the nature of the call, and the place
at which their presence is required.

I remember the case of an English girl who was fearfully burned at a villa at some little distance
from the city. The injuries were so severe that, while it was extremely desirable that she
should be removed to a hospital, there was much doubt as to the possibility of moving her.
In this difficulty the Misericordia were summoned. They came, five or six of them, bringing
with them their too well-known black covered litter, and transported the patient to the hospital,
lifting her from her bed and placing her in the litter with an exquisitely delicate and skilled
gentleness of handling which spared her suffering to the utmost, and excited the surprise and
admiration of the English medical man who witnessed the operation. Every part of the work,
every movement, was executed in absolute silence and with combined obedience to signalled orders
from the leader of the company.

Another case which was brought under my notice was that of a woman suffering from dropsy, which
made the necessary removal of her a very arduous and difficult operation. It would probably
have been deemed impossible save by the assistance of the Misericordia, who managed so featly
and deftly that those who saw it marvelled at the skill and accurately co-operating force,
which nothing but long practice could have made possible.

It is a law of the brotherhood, never broken, that they are to accept nothing, not so much
as a glass of water, in any house to which they are called. The Florentines well know how much
they owe as a community, and how much each man may some day come to owe personally to the Misericordia;
and when the doleful clang of their well-known bell is heard booming over the city, women may
be seen to cross themselves with a muttered prayer, while men, ashamed of their religiosity,
but moved by feeling as well as habit, will furtively do the same.

There is an association at Rome copied from that at Florence, and vowed to the performance
of very similar duties. I once had an opportunity of seeing the registers of this Roman Misericordia,
and was much impressed by the frequently recurring entry of excursions into the Campagna to
bring in the corpses of men murdered and left there!

CHAPTER XII.

Among the other things that contributed to make those Florence days very pleasant ones, we
did a good deal in the way of private theatricals. Our impresario at least in the earlier part
of the time, was Arthur Vansittart. He engaged the Cocomero Theatre for our performances, and
to the best of my remembrance defrayed the whole of the expense out of his own pocket. Vansittart
was an exceptionally tall man, a thread-paper of a man, and a very bad actor. He was exceedingly
noisy, and pushed vivacity to its extreme limits. I remember well his appearance in some play--I
fancy it was in The Road to Ruin, in which I represented some character, I entirely forget
what--where he comes on with a four-in-hand whip in his hand; and I remember, too, that for
the other performers in that piece, their appearance on the stage was a service of danger,
from which the occupants of the stage boxes were not entirely free. But he was inexhaustibly
good-natured and good-humoured, and gave us excellent suppers after the performance.

Then there was Edward Hobhouse, with--more or less with--his exceedingly pretty and clever
wife, and her sister, the not at all pretty but still more clever and very witty Miss Graves.
Hobhouse was a man abounding in talent of all sorts, extremely witty, brim full of humour,
a thorough good fellow and very popular. He and his wife, though very good friends did not
entirely pull together; and it used to be told of him, that replying to a man, who asked him
"How's your wife?" he answered with much humorous semblance of indignation, "Well! if you come
to that, how's yours?" Hobhouse was far and away the cleverest and best educated man of the
little set (these dramatic reminiscences refer to the early years of my Florence life), and
in truth was somewhat regrettably wasted in the midst of such a frivolous and idle community.
But I take it that he was much of an invalid.

Of course we got up The Rivals. I was at first Bob Acres, with an Irishman of the name of Torrens
for my Sir Lucius, which he acted, when we could succeed in keeping him sober, to the life.
My Bob Acres was not much of a success. And I subsequently took Sir Anthony, which remained
my stock part for years, and which I was considered to do well.

Sir Francis Vincent, a resident in Florence for many years, with whom I was for several of
them very intimate, played the ungrateful part of Falkland. He was a heavy actor with fairly
good elocution and delivery, and not unfitted for a part which it might have been difficult
to fill without him. He was to a great degree a reading man, and had a considerable knowledge
of the byeways of Florentine history.

My mother "brought the house down" nightly as Mrs. Malaprop; and a very exceptionally beautiful
Madame de Parcieu (an Englishwoman married to a Frenchman) was in appearance, manière d'être,
and deportment the veritable beau idéal of Lydia Languish, and might have made a furore on
any stage, if it had been possible to induce her to raise her voice sufficiently. She was most
good-naturedly amenable. But when she was thus driven against her nature and habits to speak
out, all the excellence of her acting was gone. The meaning of the words was taken out of them.

Sir Anthony Absolute became, as I said, my stock part. And the phrase is justified by my having
acted it many years afterwards in a totally different company--I the only remaining brick of
the old edifice--and to audiences not one of whom could have witnessed the performances of
those earlier days. Mrs. Richie, an American lady--who had, I think, been known on a London
stage under the name of "Mowatt"--was in those latter days, now so far away in the dim past,
our manageress. Mrs. Proby, the wife, now I am sorry to say the widow, of the British Consul,
was on that occasion our Mrs. Malaprop, and was an excellent representative of that popular
lady, though she will, I am sure, forgive me for saying not so perfect a one as my mother.

Quite indescribably strange is the effect on my mind of looking back at my three Thespian avatars--Falstaff
at Cincinnati, Acres and Sir Anthony in Grand Ducal Florence, and Sir Anthony again in a liberated
Tuscany! I seem to myself like some old mail-coach guard, who goes through the whole long journey,
while successive coachmen "Leave you here, sir!" But then in my case the passengers are all
changed too; and I arrive at the end of the journey without one "inside" or "outside" of those
who started with me! I can still blow my horn cheerily, however, and chat with the passengers,
who joined the coach when my journey was half done, as if they were quite old fellow travellers!

It must not be imagined, however, that that pleasant life at Florence was all cakes and ale.

I was upon the whole a hard worker. I wrote a series of volumes on various portions of Italian,
and especially Florentine, history, beginning with The Girlhood of Catherine de Medici. They
were all fairly well received, the Life of Filippo Strozzi perhaps the most so. But the volume
on the story of the great quarrel between the Papacy and Venice, entitled Paul the Pope and
Paul the Friar, was, I think, the best. The volumes entitled A Decade of Italian Women, and
dealing with ten typical historic female figures, has attained, I believe, to some share of
public favour. I see it not unfrequently quoted by writers on Italian subjects. Then I made
a more ambitious attempt, and produced a History of the Commonwealth of Florence, in four volumes.

Such a work appeals, of course, to a comparatively limited audience. But that it was recognised
to have some value among certain Anglo-Saxons whose favourable judgment in the matter was worth
having, may be gathered from the fact that it has been a text-book in our own and in transatlantic
universities; while a verdict perhaps still more flattering (though I will not say more gratifying)
was given by Professor Pasquale Villari (now senator of the kingdom of Italy), who, in a letter
in my possession, pronounces my history of Florence to be in his opinion the best work on the
subject extant.

Professor Villari is not only an accomplished scholar of a wide range of culture, but his praise
of any work on Italian--and perhaps especially on Tuscan--history comes from no "prentice han'."
His masterly Life of Macchiavelli is as well known in our country as in his own, through the
translation of it into English by his gifted wife, Linda Villari, whilom Linda White, and my
very valued friend. All these historical books were written con amore. The study of bygone
Florentines had an interest for me which was quickened by the daily and hourly study of living
Florentines. It was curious to mark in them resemblances of character, temperament, idiosyncrasy,
defects, and merits, to those of their forefathers who move and breathe before us in the pages
of such old chroniclers as Villani, Segni, Varchi, and the rest, and in sundry fire-graven
strophes and lines of their mighty poet. Dante's own local and limited characteristics, as
distinguished from the universality of his poetic genius, have always seemed to me quintessentially
Tuscan.

Of course it is among the lower orders that such traits are chiefly found, and among the lower
orders in the country more than those in the towns. But there is, or was, for I speak of years
ago, a considerable conservative pride in their own inherited customs and traditions common
to all classes.

Especially this is perceived in the speech of the genuine Florentine. Quaint proverbs, not
always of scrupulous refinement, old-world phrases, local allusions, are stuffed into the conversation
of your real citizen or citizeness of Firenze la Gentile as thickly as the beads in the vezzo
di corallo on the neck of a contadina. And above all, the accent--the soft (not to say slobbering)
c and g, and the guttural aspirate which turns casa into hasa and capitale into hapitale, and
so forth--this is cherished with peculiar fondness. I have heard a young, elegant, and accomplished
woman discourse in very choice Italian with the accent of a market-woman, and on being remonstrated
with for the use of some very pungent proverbial illustration in her talk, she replied with
conviction, "That is the right way to speak Tuscan. I have nothing to do with what Italians
from other provinces may prefer. But pure, racy Tuscan--the Tuscan tongue that we have inherited--is
spoken as I speak it--or ought to be!"

I had gathered together, partly for my own pleasure, and partly in the course of historical
researches, a valuable collection of works on Storia Patria, which were sold by me when I gave
up my house there. The reading of Italian, even very crabbed and ancient Italian which might
have puzzled more than one "elegant scholar," became quite easy and familiar to me, but I have
never attained a colloquial mastery over the language. I can talk, to be sure, with the most
incorrect fluency, and I can make myself understood--at all events by Italians, whose quick,
sympathetic apprehension of one's meaning, and courteous readiness to assist a foreigner in
any linguistic straits, are deserving of grateful recognition from all of us who, however involuntarily,
maltreat their beautiful language.

But the colloquial use of a language must be acquired when the organs are young and lissom.
I began too late. And besides, I have laboured under the great disadvantage that my deafness
prevents me from sharing in the hourly lessons which those who hear all that is going on around
them profit by.

Besides the above-mentioned historical works, I wrote well nigh a score, I think, of novels,
which also had no great, but a fair, share of success. The majority of them are on Italian
subjects; and these, if I may be allowed to say so, are good. The pictures they give of Italian
men and women and things and habits are true, vivid, and accurate. Those which I wrote on English
subjects are unquestionably bad. I had been living the best part of a life-time out of England;
I knew but little comparatively of English life, and I had no business to meddle with such
subjects. But besides all this, I was always writing in periodical publications of all sorts,
English and American, to such an extent that I should think the bulk of it, if brought together,
would exceed that of all the many volumes I am answerable for. No! my life in that Castle of
Indolence--Italy--was not a far-niente one!

We were great at picnics in those Florence days. Perhaps the most favourite place of all for
such parties was Pratolino, a park belonging to the Grand Duke, about seven miles from Florence,
on the Bologna road. These seven miles wave almost all more or less up hill, and when the high
ground on which the park is situated has been reached, there is a magnificent view over the
Val d'Arno, its thousand villas, and Florence, with its circle of surrounding hills.

There was once a grand ducal residence there, which was famous in the later Medicean days for
the multiplicity and ingenuity of its water-works. All kinds of surprises, picturesque and
grotesque effects, and practical jokes, had been prepared by the ingenious, but somewhat childish
skill of the architect. Turning the handle of a door would produce a shower-bath, sofas would
become suddenly boats surrounded by water, and such like more or less disagreeable surprises
to visitors, who were new to the specialties of the place. But all this practical joking was
at length fatal to the scene of it. The pipes and conduits got out of order, and eventually
so ruined the edifice that it had to be taken down, and has never been replaced.

But the principal object of attraction--besides the view, the charming green turf for dining
on, the facility for getting hot water, plates, glasses, &c., from a gardeners house, and a
large hall in the same, good for dancing--was the singular colossal figure, representing "The
Apennine," said to have been designed by Michael Angelo. One used to clamber up inside this
figure, which sits in a half crouching attitude, and reach on the top of the head a platform,
on which four or five persons could stand and admire the matchless view.

About three miles further, still always ascending the slope of the Apennine, is a Servite monastery
which is the cradle and mother establishment of the order. Sometimes we used to extend our
rambles thither. The brethren had the reputation, I remember, of possessing a large and valuable
collection of prints. They were not very willing to exhibit it; but I did once succeed in examining
it, and, as I remember, found that it contained nothing much worth looking at.

A much more favourite amusement of mine was a picnic arranged to last for two or three days,
and intended to embrace objects further afield. Vallombrosa was a favourite and admirably well
selected locality for this purpose. And many a day and moonlight night never to be forgotten,
have I spent there. Sometimes we pushed our expeditions to the more distant convents--or "Sanctuaries"
as they were called--of Camaldoli and Lavernia. And of one very memorable excursion to these
two places I shall have to speak in a subsequent chapter.

Meantime those dull mutterings as of distant thunder, which Signor Albèri had, as mentioned
at a former page, first signalised to me, were gradually growing into a roar which was attracting
the attention and lively interest of all Europe.

Of the steady increase in the volume of this roar, and of the results in which it eventuated,
I need say little here, for I have already said enough in a volume entitled Tuscany in 1849
and in 1859. But I may jot down a few recollections of the culminating day of the Florentine
revolution.

I had been out from an early hour of that morning, and had assisted at sundry street discussions
of the question, What would the troops do? Such troops as were in Florence were mainly lodged
in the forts, the Fortezza da Basso, which I have had occasion to mention in a former chapter,
and the other situated on the high ground beyond the Boboli Gardens, and therefore immediately
above the Pitti Palace. My house at the corner of the large square, now the Piazza dell Indipendenza,
was almost immediately under the walls and the guns of the Fortezza da Basso; but I felt sure
that the troops would simply do nothing; might very possibly fraternise with the people; but
would in no case burn a cartridge for the purpose of keeping the Grand Duke on his throne.

A short wide street runs in a straight line from the middle of one side of the Piazza to the
fort; and a considerable crowd of people, at about ten o'clock, I think, began to advance slowly
up this street towards the fortezza, and I went with them. High above our heads on the turf-covered
top of the lofty wall, there were a good number, perhaps thirty or forty soldiers, not drawn
up in line, but apparently merely lounging and enjoying the air and sunshine. They had, I think
all of them, their muskets in their hands, but held them idly and with apparently no thought
whatever of using them. I felt confirmed in my opinion that they had no intention of doing so.

Arrived at the foot of the fortress wall, the foremost of the people began calling out to the
soldiers, "Abbasso l'Austria! Siete per Italia o per l'Austria?" I did not--and it is significant--hear
any cries of "Abbasso il Gran Duca!" The soldiers, as far as I could see at that distance,
appeared to be lazily laughing at the people. One man called out "Ecco un bel muro per fracassare
il capo contro!"--"That is an excellent wall to break your heads against!" It was very plain
that they had no intention of making any hostile demonstration against the crowd. At the same
time there was no sort of manifestation of any inclination to fraternise with the revolutionists.
They were simply waiting to see how matters would go; and under the circumstances they can
hardly be severely blamed for doing so. But there can be no doubt that, whichever way things
might go, their view of the matter would be strongly influenced by the very decided opinion
that that course would be best which should not imply the necessity for doing anything. I think
that the feeling generally in "the army," if such it could be called, was on the whole kindly
to the Grand Duke, but not to the extent of being willing to fight anybody, least of all the
Florentines, in his defence!

How matters did go it is not necessary to tell here. If ever there was a revolution "made with
rose-water," it was the revolution which deposed the poor gran ciuco. I don't think it cost
any human being in all Florence a scratch or a bloody nose. It cost an enormous amount of talking
and screaming, but nothing else. At the same time it is fair to remember that the popular leaders
could not be sure that matters might not have taken another turn, and that it might have gone
hard with some of them. In any case, however, it would not have gone very hard with any of
them. Probably exile would have been the worst fate meted out to them. It is true that exile
from Tuscany just then would have been attended by a similar difficulty to that which caused
the old Scotch lady, when urged to run during an earthquake, to reply, "Ay! but whar wull I
run to?"

I do not think there was any bitter, or much even unkind, feeling on the part of the citizens
towards the sovereign against whom they rebelled. If any fact or circumstance could be found
which was calculated to hold him up to ridicule, it was eagerly laid hold of, but there was
no fiercer feeling.

A report was spread during the days that immediately followed the Duke's departure that orders
had been given to the officers in the upper fortress to turn their cannon on the city at the
first sign of rising. Such reports were very acceptable to those who for political purposes
would fain have seen somewhat of stronger feeling against the Duke. I have good reason to believe
that such orders had been given. But I have still stronger reasons for doubting that they were
ever given by the Grand Duke. And I am surest of all, that let them have been given by whom
they may, there was not the smallest chance of their being obeyed. As for the Duke himself,
I am very sure that he would have given or even done much to prevent any such catastrophe.

But perhaps the most remarkable and most singular scene of all that rose-water revolution was
the Duke's departure from his capital and his duchy. Other sovereigns in similar plight have
hidden themselves, travestied themselves, had hairbreadth escapes, or have not escaped at all.
In Tuscany the fallen ruler went forth in his own carriage with one other following it, both
rather heavily laden with luggage. The San Gallo gate is that by which the hearse that conveys
the day's dead to the cemetery on the slope of the Apennine leaves the city every night. And
the Duke passed amid the large crowd assembled at the gate to see him go, as peaceably as the
vehicle conveying those whose days in Florence, like his, were at an end, went out a few hours
later by the same road.

CHAPTER XIII.

Among the very great number of men and women whom I have known during my life in Italy--some
merely acquaintances, and many whom I knew to be, and a few, alas! a very few, whom I still
know to be trusty friends--there were many of whom the world has heard, and some perhaps of
whom it would not unwillingly hear something more. But time and space are limited, and I must
select as best I may.

I have a very pleasant recollection of "Garibaldi's Englishman," Colonel Peard. Peard had many
more qualities and capabilities than such as are essential to a soldier of fortune. The phrase,
however, is perhaps not exactly that which should be used to characterise him. He had qualities
which the true soldier of fortune should not possess. His partisanship was with him in the
highest degree a matter of conviction and conscientious opinion, and nothing would have tempted
him to change his colours or draw his sword on the other side. I am not sure either, whether
a larger amount of native brain power, and (in a much greater degree) a higher quality of culture,
than that of the general under whom it may be his fortune to serve, is a good part of the equipment
of a soldier of fortune. And Peard's relation to Garibaldi very notably exemplified this.

He was a native of Devonshire, as was my first wife; we saw a good deal of him in Florence,
and I have before me a letter written to her by him from Naples on the 28th of January, 1861,
which is interesting in more respects than one. Peard was a man who would have all that depended
on him ship-shape. And this fact, taken in conjunction with the surroundings amid which he
had to do his work, is abundantly sufficient to justify the growl he indulges in.

       *       *       *       *       *
"My dear Mrs. Trollope," he writes, "I am ashamed to think either of
you or of other friends at Florence; it is such an age since I have
written to any of you. But I have been daily, from morning to night,
hard at work for weeks. The honour of having a command is all very
well, but the trouble and worry are unspeakable. Besides, I had such
a set under me that it was enough to rile the sweetest tempered man.
Volunteers may be very well in their way. I doubt not their efficiency
in repelling an attack in their own country. But defend me from ever
again commanding a brigade of English volunteers in a foreign country.
As to the officers, many were most mutinous, and some something worse.
Thank goodness the brigade is at an end. All I now wait for is the
settlement of the accounts. If I can get away by the second week in
February, I at present think of taking a run as far as Cairo, then
crossing to Jerusalem, and back by Jaffa, Beyrout, Smyrna, and Athens
to Italy, when I shall hope once more to see you and yours.

"Politics do not look well in Southern Italy, I fear. The Mazzinists have been most active,
and have got up a rather strong feeling against Cavour and what they think the peace party.
Now Italy must have a little rest for organisation, civil as well as military. They do not
give the Government time to do or even propose good measures for the improvement of the country.
No sooner are one set of ministers installed than intrigues are on foot to upset them. I firmly
believe that the only hope for Southern Italy and Sicily is in a strong military Government.
These districts must be treated as conquered provinces, and the people educated and taught
habits of industry, whether they like it or not. The country is at present in a state of barbarism,
and must be saved from that. All that those who are supposed to be educated seem to think about
is how they can get a few dollars out of Government." [I fear the honest Englishman would find
that those supposed to be educated in those provinces are as much in a state of barbarism in
the matters that offended him as ever.] "I never saw such a set of harpies in my life. One
had the assurance to come to me a few days since, asking if I could not take him on the strength
of the brigade, so as to enable him to get six months pay out of the Government. As to peculation,
read Gil Blas, and that will give you a faint sketch of the customs and habits of all impiegati
[civil servants] in this part of Italy. I do not believe that the Southern Italians, taken
as a body, know what honesty is." [All that he says is true to the present day. But the distinction
which he makes between the Southern Italians and those of the other provinces is most just,
and must be remembered.] "But that is the fault of the horrid system of tyranny under which
they have so long lived. I do not say that the old system must be reformed, it must be totally
changed. Solomon might make laws, but so corrupt are all the impiegati, that I doubt if he
could get them carried out. Poor Garibaldi is made a tool of by a set of designing intriguers,
who will sacrifice him at any moment. He is too honest to see or believe of dishonesty in others.
He has no judgment of character. He has been surrounded by a set of blacklegs and swindlers,
many among them, I regret to say, English. How I look forward to seeing you all again! Till
we meet, believe me

"Most truly yours,

"GIO. [sic] PEARD."

The last portion of this letter is highly interesting and historically well worth preserving.
It is entirely and accurately true. And there was no man in existence more fitted by native
integrity and hatred of dishonesty on the one hand, and close intimacy with the subject of
his remarks on the other, to speak authoritatively on the matter than "Garibaldi's Englishman."

The following letter, written, as will be seen, on the eve of his departure for the celebrated
expedition to Sicily, is also interesting. It is dated Genoa.

       *       *       *       *       *

"DEAR MRS. TROLLOPE,--I have been thinking over your observations about terno. I don't give
up my translation; but would it not be literal enough to translate it, 'the bravest three colours'?

[This refers to the rendering of the lottery phrase terno in a translation by my wife of the
stornello of Dall' Ongaro previously mentioned. In the Italian lottery, ninety numbers, 1-90,
are always put into the wheel. Five only of these are drawn out. The player bets that a number
named by him shall be one of these (semplice estratto); or that it shall be the first drawn
(estratto determinato); or that two numbers named by him shall be two of the five drawn (ambo);
or that three so named shall be drawn (terno). It will be seen, therefore, that the winner
of an estratto determinato, ought, if the play were quite even, to receive ninety times his
stake. But, in fact, such a player would receive only seventy-five times his stake, the profit
of the Government consisting of this pull of fifteen per ninety against the player. Of course,
what he ought to receive in any of the other cases is easily (not by me, but by experts) calculable.
It will be admitted that the difficulty of translating the phrase in Dall' Ongaro's little
poem, so as to be intelligible to English readers, was considerable. The letter then proceeds]:

"I did not start, you will see, direct from Livorno [Leghorn], for Medici wrote me to join
him here. Moreover, the steamer by which I expected to have gone, did not make the trip, but
was sent back to this city. I will worry you with a letter when anything stirring occurs. We
sail to-night. Part went off last evening--1,500. We go in three steamers, and shall overtake
the others.

"With kind regards to all friends, believe me,

"Yours very faithfully,

"JOHN PEARD."

       *       *       *       *       *

The remarks contained in the former of the two letters here transcribed seem to make this a
proper place for recording "what I remember" of Garibaldi.

My first acquaintance with him was through my very old, and very highly valued, loved, and
esteemed friend, Jessie White Mario. The Garibaldi culte has been with her truly and literally
the object (apart from her devoted love for her husband, an equally ardent worshipper at the
same shrine) for which she has lived, and for which she has again and again affronted death.
For she accompanied him in all his Italian campaigns as a hospital nurse, and on many occasions
rendered her inestimable services in that capacity under fire. If Peard has been called "Garibaldi's
Englishman," truly Jessie White Mario deserves yet more emphatically the title of "Garibaldi's
Englishwoman." She has published a large life of Garibaldi, which is far and away the best
and most trustworthy account of the man and his wonderful works. She is not blind to the spots
on the sun of her adoration, nor does she seek to conceal the fact that there were such spots,
but she is a true and loyal worshipper all the same.

Her husband was--alas! that I should write so; for no Indian wife's life was ever more ended
by her suttee than Jessie Mario's life has practically been ended by her husband's untimely
death!--Alberto Mario was among the, I fear, few exceptions to Peard's remarks on the men who
were around Garibaldi. He was not only a man of large literary culture, a brave soldier, an
acute politician, a formidable political adversary, and a man of perfect and incorruptible
integrity, but he would have been considered in any country and in any society in Europe a
very perfect gentleman. He was in political opinion a consistent and fearlessly outspoken Republican.
He and I therefore differed toto coelo. But our differences never diminished our, I trust,
mutual esteem, nor our friendly intercourse. But he was a born frondeur. He edited during his
latter years a newspaper at Rome, which was a thorn in the side of the authorities. I remember
his being prosecuted and condemned for persistently speaking of the Pope in his paper as "Signor
Pecci." He was sentenced to imprisonment. But all the Government wanted was his condemnation;
and he was never incarcerated. But he used to go daily to the prison and demand the execution
of his sentence. The gaoler used to shut the door in his face, and he narrated the result of
his visit in the next day's paper!

It was as Jessie Mario's friend then, that I first knew Garibaldi.

One morning at the villa I then possessed, at Ricorboli, close to Florence, a maid-servant
came flying into the room, where I was still in bed at six o'clock in the morning, crying out
in the utmost excitement, "C'è il Generale! c'è il Generale; e chiede di lei, signore!"--"Here's
the General! here's the General! And he is asking for you, sir!" She spoke as if there was
but one general in all the world. But there was hardly any room in Florence at that time where
her words would not have been understood as well as I understood them.

I jumped out of bed, got into a dressing-gown, and ran out to where the "General" was on the
lawn before the door, just as I was, and hardly more than half awake. There he was, all alone.
But if there had been a dozen other men around him, I should have had no difficulty in recognising
him. There was the figure as well known to every Italian from Turin to Syracuse as that of
his own father--the light grey trousers, the little foraging cap, the red shirt, the bandana
handkerchief loosely thrown over his shoulders and round his neck.

Prints, photographs, portraits of all kinds, have made the English public scarcely less familiar
than the Italian, with the physiognomy of Giuseppe Garibaldi. But no photograph, of course,
and no painting which I have ever seen, gives certain peculiarities of that striking head and
face, as I first saw it, somewhere about twenty years ago.

The pose of the head, and the general arrangement and colour of the tawny hair (at that time
but slightly grizzled) justified the epithet "leonine" so often applied to him. His beard and
moustache were of the same hue, and his skin was probably fair by nature, but it had been tanned
by wind and weather. The clear blue eyes were surrounded by a network of fine lines. This had
no trace or suggestion of cunning, as is often the case with wrinkles round the setting of
the eyes, but was obviously the result of habitual contraction of the muscles in gazing at
very distant objects. In short, Garibaldi's eyes, both in this respect and in respect of a
certain, steadfast, far-away look in them, were the eyes of a sailor. Seamanship, as is generally
known, was his first profession. Another physical peculiarity of his which I do not remember
to have seen noticed in print was a remarkably beautiful voice. It was fine in quality and
of great range; sweet, yet manly, and with a suggestion of stored-up power which harmonised
with the man. It seemed to belong, too, to the benevolence, which was the habitual expression
of his face when in repose.

"Jessie [pronounced Jèssee] told me I should find you up; but you are not so early as I am!"
was his salutation. I said he had dans le temps been beforehand with others as well as with
me! At which he laughed, not, I thought, ill-pleased. And then we talked--about Italy of course.
One subject of his talk I specially remember, because it gave rise to a little discussion,
and in a great degree gave me the measure of the man.

"As for the priests," said he, "they ought all to be put to death, without exception and without
delay!"

"Rather a strong measure!" I ventured to say.

"Not a bit too strong! not a bit!" he rejoined warmly. "Do we not put assassins to death? And
is not the man who murders your soul worse than the man who only kills your body?"

I attempted to say that the difference of the two cases lay in the fact, that as to the killing
of the body there was no doubt about the matter, whereas mankind differed very widely as to
the killing of the soul; and that as long as it remained a moot point whether priests did so
or not, it would hardly be practicable or even politic to adopt the measure he suggested.

But he would not listen to me--only repeated with increasing excitement that no good could
come to humanity till all priests were destroyed.

Then we talked about the Marries, of both of whom he spoke with the greatest affection; and
of the prospects of "going to Rome," which of course he considered the simplest and easiest
thing possible.

I saw Garibaldi on many subsequent occasions, but never again tête-à-tête, or a Quattro Oct,
as the Italians more significantly phrase it. The last time I ever saw him was under melancholy
circumstances enough, though the occasion professed to be one of rejoicing. It was at the great
gathering at Palermo for celebrating the anniversary of the Sicilian Vespers. Of course such
a celebration would have brought Garibaldi to partake in it, wherever he might have been, short
of in his grave. And truly he was then very near that. It was a melancholy business. He was
brought from the steamer to his bed in the hotel on a litter through the streets lined by the
thousands who had gathered to see him, but who had been warned that his condition was such,
that the excitement occasioned by any shouting would be perilous to him. Amid dead silence
his litter passed through the crowds who were longing to welcome him to the scene of his old
triumphs! Truly it was more like a funeral procession than one of rejoicing.

It was very shortly before his death, which many people thought had been accelerated by that
last effort to make his boundless popularity available for the propagation of Radicalism.

Peard's words reveal with exactitude the deficiency which lay at the root of all the blunders,
follies, and imprudence which rendered his career less largely beneficent for Italy than it
might have been. "He had no judgment of character," and was too honest to believe in knavery.
It must be added that he was too little intelligent to detect it, or to estimate the consequences
of it. Of any large views of social life, or of the means by which, and the objects for which,
men should be governed, he was as innocent as a baby. In a word, he was not an intellectual
man. All the high qualities which placed him on the pinnacle he occupied were qualities of
the heart and not of the head. They availed with admirable success to fit him for exercising
a supreme influence over men, especially young men, in the field, and for all the duties of
a guerilla leader. They would not have sufficed to make him a great commander of armies; and
did still less fit him for becoming a political leader.

Whom next shall I present to the reader from the portrait gallery of my reminiscences?

Come forward, Franz Pulszky, most genial, most large-hearted of philosophers and friends!--I
can't say "guides," for though he was both the first, he was not the last, differing widely
as we did upon--perhaps not most, but at all events--many large subjects.

I had known the lady whom Pulszky married in Vienna many years previously, and long before
he knew her. She was the daughter of that highly cultivated Jewish family of whom I have spoken
before. When I first knew her she was as pretty and charming a young girl as could be imagined.
She was possessed then of all the accomplishments that can adorn a girl at that period of life.
Later on she showed that she was gifted with sense, knowledge, energy, firmness, courage and
caractère in a degree very uncommon. Since leaving Vienna I had neither seen nor heard more
of her, till she came to live with her husband and family of children in Florence. But our
old acquaintanceship was readily and naturally renewed, and his villa near the city became
one of the houses I best loved to frequent. She had at that time, and even well-nigh I take
it in those old days at Vienna, abandoned all seeming of conformity to the practices of the
faith she was born in.

I used to say of Pulszky that he was like a barrel full to the bung with generous liquor, which
flowed in a full stream, stick the spigot in where you would. He was--is, I am happy to say
is the proper tense In his case--a most many-sided man. His talk on artistic subjects, mainly
historical and biographical, was abundant and most amusing. His antiquarian knowledge was large.
His ethnographical learning, theories, and speculations were always interesting and often most
suggestive. Years had, I think, put some water in the wine of his political ideas, but not
enough to prevent differences between us on such subjects. He was withal--there again I mean
"is," for I am sure that years and the air of his beloved Pesth cannot have put any water in
that generous and genial wine--a fellow of infinite jest, and full of humour; in a word, one
of the fullest and most delightful companions I have ever known. He talked English with no
further accent than served to add a raciness to the flavour of his conversation; and every
morning of one fixed day in the week he used to come to Ricorboli for what he called a tobacco
parliament.

I used frequently to spend the evening at his villa, where one met a somewhat extraordinary
cosmopolitan gathering. Generally we had some good music; for Madame Pulszky was--unhappily
in her case the past tense is needed--a very perfect musician. Among other people more or less
off the world's beaten track, I used to meet there a very extraordinary Russian, who had accomplished
the rare feat of escaping from Siberia. He was a Nihilist of the most uncompromising type;
a huge, shaggy man, with an unkempt head and chest like those of a bear; and by his side--more
or less--there was a pretty, petite, dainty little young wife--beauty and the beast, if ever
that storied couple were seen in the flesh!

Many years afterwards when I and my wife saw Pulszky at Pesth, and were talking of old times,
he reminded me of this person; and on my doubting that any man in his senses could believe
in the practicability of the extreme Nihilist theories, he instanced our old acquaintance,
saying, "Yes, there is a man, who in his very inmost conscience believes that no good of any
sort can be achieved for humanity till the sponge shall have been passed over all that men
have instituted and done, and a perfect tabula rasa has been substituted for it!"

I have many letters from Pulszky, written most of them after his return to Pesth, and for the
most part too much occupied with the persons and politics of that recent day to be fit for
publication.

Here is one, written before he left Florence, which may be given:

       *       *       *       *       *

"VILLA PETROVICH.

"MY DEAR TROLLOPE,--I am just returned from a long excursion with Boxall to Arezzo, Cortona,
Borgo San Sepolcro, Città di Castello, Perugia, and Assisi. We were there for a week, and enjoyed
it amazingly. I am sorry to say that I am not now able to join your party to Camaldoli, since
I must see Garibaldi, and do not know as yet what I shall do when the war begins, which might
happen during your excursion. I hope you will drink a glass of water to my remembrance at La
Vernia from the miraculous well, called from the rocks by my patron saint, St. Francis of Assisi.
I shall come to you on Sunday, and will tell you more about him. I studied him at Assisi.

"Yours sincerely,

"FR. PULSZKY."

       *       *       *       *       *

The following passages may be given from a long letter, written from Pesth on the 27th of March,
1869. It is for the most part filled with remarks on the party politics of the hour, and persons,
many of them still on the scene:--

       *       *       *       *       *

"MY DEAR MRS. AND MR. TROLLOPE,--You don't believe how glad I was to get a token of remembrance
from you. It seems to me quite an age since I left Florence, and your letter was like a voice
from a past period. I live here as a stranger; you would not recognise me. I talk nothing but
politics and business. There is not a man with whom I could speak in the way that we did on
Sundays at your villa. I am of course much with old Deak. I often dine with him. I know all
his anecdotes and jokes by heart. He likes it, if I visit him; but our conversation remains
within the narrow limits of party politics and the topics of the day. Sometimes I spend an
evening with Baron Eotvös, the Minister of Public Instruction, my old friend; and there only
we get both warm in remembering the days of our youth, and building châteaux en Espagne for
the future of the country. Eotvös has appointed me Director of the National Museum, which contains
a library of 180,000 volumes, mostly Hungarian; a very indifferent picture gallery, with a
few good pictures and plenty of rubbish; a poor collection of antiquities; splendid mediaeval
goldsmith work; arms, coins, and some miserable statues; a good collection of stuffed birds;
an excellent one of butterflies; a celebrated one of beetles, and good specimens for geology
and mineralogy. But all this collection is badly, if at all, catalogued; badly arranged; and
until now we have in a great palace an appropriation of only 1,200l. a year. I shall have much
to do there--as much as any minister in his office, if politics leave me the necessary time for it.

[Then follows a quantity of details about the party politics of the day. And then he continues:--]

"Such a contested election with us costs about 2,000l. to 3,000l. I must say I never spent
money with more regret than this; but I had to maintain the party interest and my family influence
in my electoral district. I have there a fine old castle and a splendid park, but I rarely
go to the country, since I have jumped, as you know, once more into the whirlpool of politics,
and can't get out again. An agrarian communistic agitation has been initiated, I do not know
whether with or without the sanction of S----, but certainly it has spread rapidly over a great
portion of the country, and I doubt whether Government has the energy for putting that agitation
down. It is a very serious question, especially as it finds us engaged in many other questions
of the highest interest.

[Then he gives an outline of the position of Hungary in relation to other States, and then
he continues:--]

"We remain still in opposition with the Wallachians, or, as they now like to call themselves,
Rumanes, and we try to maintain the peace with Prussia. And now when we should concentrate
all our forces to meet the changes which threaten us, a stupid and wicked Opposition divides
the nation into two hostile camps [how very singular and unexampled!]. We fight one another
to the great pleasure of Russia and Prussia, who enjoy our fratricidal feuds as the Romans
in the amphitheatre enjoyed the fights of the barbarians in the arena.

"I must beg your pardon, dear Mrs. Trollope, that I grow so pathetic! You know it is not my
custom when I am with ladies. But you must know likewise that I live now outside of female
society. I do not exactly know whether it is my fault or that of the ladies of Pesth; so much
is certain that only at Vienna, where I go from time to time, I call upon ladies. As to my
children, Augustus, whom you scarcely know, is a volunteer in the army according to our law
of universal conscription. Charles you may have seen at Florence. I sent him thither to visit
his grandmother." [Madame Walter, the mother of Madame Pulszky; the lady who had received us
with such pleasant hospitality at Vienna, and who had come to reside at Florence, where she
lived to a great age much liked and respected.] "Polixena gets handsome and clever; little
Garibaldi is to go to school in September next. I grow old, discontented, insupportable;" [we
found him at Pesth many years afterwards no one of the three!]; "a journey to Greece and Italy
would certainly do me immense good; but I fear I must give up that plan for the present year,
since after a contested election it is a serious thing to spend money for amusement. In June
I shall leave my present lodging and go to the Museum, which stands in a handsome square opposite
to the House of Parliament. Excuse me for my long, long talk; and do not forget your faithful
friend, in partibus infidelium,

"FR. PULSZKY."

       *       *       *       *       *

On the 26th of March, 1870, he writes a letter which was brought to us by his son, the Augustus
mentioned in the letter I have just transcribed.

       *       *       *       *       *

"MY DEAR MRS. AND MR. TROLLOPE,--Detained by Parliamentary duties and the management of my
own affairs, I am still unable to make a trip to Italy to visit my friends, who made the time
of my exile more agreeable to me than my own country. But I send in my stead a second edition
of the old Pulszky, revised and corrected ad usum Delphini, though I do not doubt that you
prefer the old book, to which you were accustomed. My son Augustus has now finished his studies,
and is D.E.L.--in a few days Lieutenant in the reserve, and Secretary at the Ministry of Finance.
Few young men begin their career in a more promising way. As to myself, Augustus will tell
you more than I could write. I have remained too long in foreign countries to feel entirely
at home at Pesth, where people know how to make use of everybody. I am M.P., belong to the
Finance Committee, am Chairman of the Committee of Foreign Affairs in the Delegation, Director
of the Museum, Chairman of the Philological Section in the Academy of Sciences, Chairman of
the Society of Fine Arts, Vice-President of three Insurance Offices, and Member of the Council
of two railroads. This long list proves sufficiently that my time is taken up from early morning
to night. But my health is good, despite of the continuous wear and tear.

"During the summer vacations I wish to go to England. For ten years I have not been there;
and I long to see again a highly civilised people; else I become myself a barbarian. Still
I am proud of my Hungarians, who really struggle hard, and not without success, to be more
than they are now--the first of the barbarians.

"I have for a long time not heard of you. Of course, in our correspondence your letter was
the last, not mine. It is my own fault. But you must excuse me still for one year. Then I hope
I can put myself in a more comfortable position. For the present I am unable even to read anything
but Hungarian papers, bills, reports, and business letters. I envy you in your elegant villa,
where you enjoy life! I hope you are both well, and do not forget your old friend,

"FR. PULSZKY.

"P.S.--Augustus will give you a good photograph of me."

       *       *       *       *       *

Here is one other letter of the 13th June, 1872:--

       *       *       *       *       *

"MY DEAR TROLLOPE,--What a pity that my time does not allow me to visit Italy at any other
season than just in summer. We are in the midst of our canvass for the general elections. My
son Augustus is to be returned for my old place Szecseny without opposition on the 21st. On
the following day we go to the poll at Gyöngyös, a borough which is to send me to Parliament.
It is a contested election, therefore rather troublesome and expensive, though not too expensive.
Parliament meets with us on the first of September. Thus my holidays are in July and August.
Shall we never have the pleasure to see you and Mrs. Trollope, to whom I beg you to give my
best regards, here at Pesth? Next year is the great exhibition at Vienna. Might it not induce
you to visit Vienna, whence by an afternoon trip you come to Pesth, where I know you would
amuse yourselves to your hearts' content.

"My children are quite well. Charles is at the University at Vienna. He despises politics,
and wants to become Professor at the University of Pesth in ten or twelve years.

"As to me I am well, very busy; much attacked by the Opposition since I am a dreaded party
man. Besides I have to re-organise the National Museum, from the library, which has no catalogue,
to the great collections of mineralogy and plants. We bought the splendid picture gallery of
Prince Esterhazy. This too is under my direction, with a most important collection of prints
and drawings. You see, therefore, that my time is fully occupied.

"Yours always,

"FR. PULSZKY."

       *       *       *       *       *

My wife and I did subsequently visit our old friend at Pesth, and much enjoyed our brief stay
there and our chat of old times. But the work of re-organising the Museum was not yet completed.
I do sincerely hope that the task has been brought to an end by this time, and that I may either
in England or at Pesth once again see Franz Pulszky in the flesh!

CHAPTER XIV.

According to the pathetic, and on the face of it accurately truthful, account of the close
of his life in Mr. Forster's admirable and most graphic life of him, I never knew Landor. For
the more than octogenarian old man whom I knew at Florence was clearly not the Landor whom
England had known and admired for so many and such honoured years. Of all the painful story
of the regrettable circumstances which caused him to seek his last home in Florence it would
be mere impertinence in me to speak, after the lucid, and at the same time delicately-touched,
account of them which his biographer has given.

I may say, however, that even after the many years of his absence from Florence there still
lingered a traditional remembrance of him--a sort of Landor legend--which made all us Anglo-Florentines
of those days very sure, that however blamable his conduct (with reference to the very partially
understood story of the circumstances that caused him to leave England) may have been in the
eyes of lawyers or of moralists, the motives and feelings that had actuated him must have been
generous and chivalrous. Had we been told that, finding a brick wall in a place where he thought
no wall should be, he had forthwith proceeded to batter it down with his head, though it was
not his wall but another's, we should have recognised in the report the Landor of the myths
that remained among us concerning him. But that while in any degree compos mentis he had under
whatever provocation acted in a base, or cowardly, or mean, or underhand manner, was, we considered,
wholly impossible.

There were various legendary stories current in Florence in those days of his doings in the
olden time. Once--so said the tradition--he knocked a man down in the street, was brought before
the delegato, as the police magistrate was called, and promptly fined one piastre, value about
four and sixpence; whereupon he threw a sequin (two piastres) down upon the table and said
that it was unnecessary to give him any change, inasmuch as he purposed knocking the man down
again as soon as he left the court. We, poteri, as regarded the date of the story, were all
convinced that the true verdict in the matter was that of the old Cornish jury, "Sarved un right."

Landor, as I remember him, was a handsome-looking old man, very much more so, I think, than
he could have been as a young man, to judge by the portrait prefixed to Mr. Forster's volumes.
He was a man of somewhat leonine aspect as regards the general appearance and expression of
the head and face, which accorded well with the large and massive build of the figure, and
to which a superbly curling white beard added not only picturesqueness, but a certain nobility.

Landor had been acquainted with the Garrows, and with my first wife at Torquay; and the acquaintance
was quickly renewed during his last years at Florence. He would frequently come to our house
in the Piazza dell' Independenza, and chat for a while, generally after he had sat silent for
some little time; for he used to appear fatigued by his walk. Later, when his walks and his
visits had come to an end, I used often to visit him in "the little house under the wall of
the city, directly back of the Carmine, in a bye-street called the Via Nunziatina, not far
from that in which the Casa Guidi stands," which Mr. Forster thus describes. I continued these
visits, always short, till very near the close; for whether merely from the perfect courtesy
which was a part of his nature, or whether because such interruptions of the long morning hours
were really welcome to him, he never allowed me to leave him without bidding me come again.

I remember him asking me after my mother at one of the latest of these visits. I told him that
she was fairly well, was not suffering, but that she was becoming very deaf. "Dead, is she?"
he cried, for he had heard me imperfectly, "I wish I was! I can't sleep," he added, "but I
very soon shall, soundly too, and all the twenty-four hours round." I used often to find him
reading one of the novels of his old friend G.P.R. James, and he hardly ever failed to remark
that he was a "woonderful" writer; for so he pronounced the word, which was rather a favourite
one with him.

It was a singular thing that Landor always dropped his aspirates. He was, I think, the only
man in his position in life whom I ever heard do so. That a man who was not only by birth a
gentleman, but was by genius and culture--and such culture!--very much more, should do this,
seemed to me an incomprehensible thing. I do not think he ever introduced the aspirate where
it was not needed, but he habitually spoke of 'and, 'ead, and 'ouse.

Even very near the close, when he seemed past caring for anything, the old volcanic fire still
lived beneath its ashes, and any word which touched even gently any of his favourite and habitual
modes of thought was sure to bring forth a reply uttered with a vivacity of manner quite startling
from a man who the moment before had seemed scarcely alive to what you were saying to him.
To what extent this old volcanic fire still burned may be estimated from a story which was
then current in Florence. The circumstances were related to me in a manner that seemed to me
to render it impossible to doubt the truth of them. But I did not see the incident in question,
and therefore cannot assert that it took place. The attendance provided for him by the kindly
care of Mr. Browning, as narrated by Mr. Forster, was most assiduous and exact, as I had many
opportunities of observing. But one day when he had finished his dinner, thinking that the
servant did not come to remove the things so promptly as she ought to have done, he took the
four corners of the table-cloth (so goes the story), and thus enveloping everything that was
on the table, threw the whole out of the window.

I received many notes from Landor, for the most part on trifling occasions, and possessing
little interest. They were interesting, however, to the race of autograph collectors, and they
have all been coaxed out of me at different times, save one. I have, however, in my possession
several letters from him to my father-in-law, Mr. Garrow, many passages in which are so characteristic
that I am sure my readers will thank me for giving them, as I am about to do. The one letter
of his that remains to me is, as the reader will see, not altogether without value as a trait
of character. The young lady spoken of in it is the same from whose papers in the Atlantic
Monthly, entitled "Last Days of Walter Savage Landor," Mr. Forster has gleaned, as he says,
one or two additional glimpses of him in his last Florence home. The letter is without date,
and runs as follows:--

       *       *       *       *       *

"MY DEAR SIR,--Let me confess to you that I am not very willing that it should be believed
desirous" [he evidently meant to write either 'that I should be believed desirous,' or 'that
it should be believed that I am desirous'] "of scattering my image indiscriminately over the
land. On this sentiment I forbade Mr. Forster to prefix an engraving of me over my collected
works. If Miss Field wishes one more photograph, Mr. Alinari may send it to her, and I enclose
the money to pay for it. With every good wish for your glory and prosperity,

"I remain, my dear sir,

"Very truly yours,

"W.S. LANDOR."

       *       *       *       *       *

The writing is that of a sadly shaking hand. The lady's request would unquestionably have been
more sure of a favourable response had she preferred it in person, instead of doing so through
me. But I suspect from the phrase "one more," and the underlining of the word one, that she
had already received from him more than one photograph, and was ashamed to make yet another
application. But she had led, or allowed, me to imagine that she was then asking for the first
time. The care to send the money for the price of the photograph was a characteristic touch.
Miss Field was, I well remember, a great favourite with Landor. I remember her telling me that
he wished to give her a very large sort of scrap book, in which, among a quantity of things
of no value, there were, as I knew, some really valuable drawings; and asking me whether she
should accept it, her own feeling leaning to the opinion that she ought not to do so, in which
view I strongly concurred. If I remember right the book had been sent to her residence, and
had to be sent back again, not without danger of seriously angering him.

Here are the letters I have spoken of, written by Landor to Mr. Garrow. They are all undated
save by the day of the month, but the post-marks show them to have been all written in 1836-8.
The first is a very long letter, almost the whole of which is about a quarrel between husband
and wife, both friends of the writer, which it would serve no good purpose to publish. The
following passage from it, however, must not be lost:--

       *       *       *       *       *

"What egregious blockheads must those animals have been who discover a resemblance to my style
in Latin or other quotations. I have no need of crutches. I can walk forward without anybody's
arm; and if I wanted one, I should not take an old one in preference. Not only do I think that
quotations are deformities and impediments, but I am apt to believe that my own opinion, at
least in those matters of which I venture to treat, is quite as good as any other man's, living
or dead. If their style is better than my own, it would be bad policy to insert it; if worse,
I should be like a tailor who would recommend his abilities by engrafting an old sleeve on
a new coat.... Southey tells me that he has known his lady more than twenty years, that the
disproportion of their ages is rational, and that having only one daughter left, his necessary
absences would be irksome to her. Whatever he does, is done wisely and virtuously. As for Rogers,
almost an octogenarian, be it on his own head! A dry nettle tied to a rose-bud, just enough
life in it to sting, and that's all Lady Blessington would be delighted at any fresh contribution
from Miss Garrow. Let it be sent to her at Gore House. I go there to-morrow for ten days, then
into Warwickshire, then to Southampton. But I have not given up all hope of another jaunt to
Torquay. Best compliments to the ladies.

"Yours ever,

"W.S.L."

       *       *       *       *       *

The following is dated the 15th of November, 1837--just half a century ago!

       *       *       *       *       *

"35, ST. JAMES'S SQUARE, BATH.

"I should be very ungrateful if I did not often think of you. But among my negligences, I must
regret that I did not carry away with me the address of our friend Bezzi." [A Piedmontese refugee
who was a very intimate friend of Garrow's. I knew him in long subsequent years, when political
changes had made it possible for him to return to Italy. He was a very clever and singularly
brilliant man, whose name, I think, became known to the English public in connection with the
discovery of the celebrated portrait of Dante on a long whitewashed wall of the Bargello, in
Florence. There was some little jealousy about the discovery between him and Kirkup. The truth
was that Kirkup's large and curious antiquarian knowledge led him to feel sure that the picture
must be there, under the whitewash; while Bezzi's influence with the authorities succeeded
in getting the wall cleared of its covering.] "I am anxious to hear how he endures his absence
from Torquay, and I will write to him the moment I hear of him. Tell Miss Garrow that the muses
like the rustle of dry leaves almost as well as the whispers of green ones. If she doubts it,
entreat her on my part to ask the question of them. Nothing in Bath is vastly interesting to
me now. Two or three persons have come up and spoken to me whom I have not seen for a quarter
of a century. Of these faces I recollect but one, and it was the ugliest! By the same token--but
here the figure of aposiopesis is advantageous to me--old Madam Burridge, of my lodgings, has
sent me three large forks and one small, which I left behind. She forgot to send another of
each. What is worse, I left behind me a three-faced seal, which I think I once showed you.
It was enclosed in a black rough case. This being of the time of Henry the Eighth, and containing
the arms of my family connections, I value far above a few forks, or a few dozens. It cannot
be worth sixpence to whoever has it. One of the engravings was a greyhound with an arrow through
him, a crest of my grandmother's, whose maiden name was Noble. If you pass by, pray ask about
it--not that I am ever disappointed at the worst result of an inquiry. I am afraid the ladies
of your house will think me imprudent; and what must be their opinion, if you let it transpire
that I have furthermore invested a part of my scrip in the beaver trade. Offer my best regards
to them all, and believe me,

"My dear sir,

"Yours very sincerely,

"W.S.L."

       *       *       *       *       *

The following is dated only January 2nd, but the post-mark shows it to have been written from
Bath on that day, 1838.

       *       *       *       *       *

"MY DEAR SIR,--Yesterday there were lying across my fender three or four sheets of paper, quite
in readiness to dry themselves, and receive my commands. One of these, I do assure you, was
destined for Torquay, but the interruption of visitors would allow me time only to cover half
a one with my scrawl. Early last week I wrote a long letter to Bezzi, but wanted the courage
to send it. I wish him to remain in England as much almost as you yourself can do. But if after
promising his lady" [it is noteworthy that such a master of English as Landor, should use,
now for the second time in these letters, this ugly phrase] "to let her try the air of Italy,
he should withdraw, she might render his life less comfortable by reproaches not altogether
unmerited. When she gets there she will miss her friends; she will hear nothing but a language
which is unknown to her, and will find that no change of climate can remove her ailments. I
offered my house to Bezzi some time ago, with its two gardens and a hundred acres of land,
all for a hundred a year. But I am confident my son will never remain in England, and after
the expiration of the year will return to Tuscany. Bezzi cannot find another house, even without
garden, for that money. James paid for a worse twelve louis a month, although he took it for
eight months. So the houses in Tuscany are very far from inviting to an economist, although
vastly less expensive than at Torquay, the rival of Naples in this respect as in beauty....
I have found my seal in a waistcoat pocket. I do not think the old woman stole the forks, but
she knew they were stolen.... Kenyon has something of Falstaff about him, both in the physical
and the moral. But he is a friendly man, of rare judgment in literary works, and of talents
that only fall a little short of genius.

"God preserve you from your Belial Bishop!" [Philpotts]. "What an incumbent! I would not see
the rascal once a month to be as great a man as Mr. Shedden, or as sublime a genius as Mr.
Wise," [word under the seal] "would drown me in bile or poison me with blue pills. A society
has been formed here, of which the members have come to the resolution of making inquiries
at every house about the religion of the inmates, what places of worship they attend, &c.,
&c. Is not it hard upon a man, who has changed a couple of sovereigns into half-crowns for
Christmas boxes, to be forced to spend ten shillings for a horsewhip, when he no longer has
a horse? Our weather here is quite as mild and beautiful as it can possibly be at Torquay.
Miss Garrow, I trust, has listened to the challenges of the birds, and sung a new song. As
Bezzi is secretary and librarian, I must apply to him for it, unless she will condescend to
trust me with a copy. I will now give you a specimen of my iron seal, brass setting and pewter
mending.

"Yours ever,

"W.S.L."

       *       *       *       *       *

The mention of Bishop Philpotts (though not by name) in the foregoing letter, reminds me of
a story which used to be told of him, and which is too good to be lost, even though thus parenthetically
told. When at Torquay he used to frequent a small church, in which the service was at that
time performed by a very young curate of the extra gentle butter-won't-melt-in-his-mouth kind,
who had much objection to the phrase in the Communion service, "eateth and drinketh his own
damnation," and ventured somewhat tremblingly to substitute "condemnation" for the word which
offended him. Whereupon the orthodox Bishop reared his head, as he knelt with the rest of the
congregation and roared aloud "Damnation!" Whether the curate had to be carried out fainting,
I don't remember.

The next letter of Landor's that I have is dated 13th April, St. James's Square, Bath. The
postmark shows that it was written in 1838.

       *       *       *       *       *

"MY DEAR SIR,--I have had Kenyon here these last four days. He tells me that he saw Bezzi in
London, and that we may entertain some hopes that he will be induced to remain in England.
All he wants is some employment; and surely his powerful friends among the Whigs could easily
procure him it. But the Whigs of all scoundrelly factions, are, and have ever been, the most
scoundrelly, the most ungenerous, the most ungrateful. What have they done for Fonblanque,
who could have kicked them overboard on his toe-nail? Their abilities put together are less
than a millionth of his; and his have been constantly and most zealously exerted in their favour.
My first conversation with Kenyon was about the publication of his poems, which are just come
out. They are in part extremely clever; particularly one on happiness and another on the shrine
of the Virgin. He was obliged to print them at his own expense; and his cousin, Miss Barrett,
who also has written a few poems of no small merit, could not find a publisher. These, however,
bear no proportion to Miss Garrow's.[1] Yet I doubt whether publishers and the folks they consult
would find out that.

[Footnote 1: To those who never knew Landor, and the habitual limitless exaggeration of his
manner of speaking, it may be necessary to observe that he did not really hold any opinion
so monstrous as might be supposed from the passage in the text. And a letter given by Mr. Forster
expresses earnestly and vigorously enough his high admiration for Miss Barrett's poetry. It
must be remembered also, that at the time this was written, Mr. Landor could only have seen
some of the earliest of Miss Barrett's writings.]

"Southey was about to write to me when his brothers death, by which six children come under
his care, interrupted him. I wish I possessed one or two of Miss Garrow's beautiful poems,
that I might ask his opinion and advice about them. His opinion I know would be the same as
mine; but his advice is what I want. Surely it cannot be requisite and advantageous to withhold
them from the world so long as you imagine. In one single year both enough of materials and
of variety for a volume might be collected and prepared. Would Miss Garrow let me offer one
to the Book of Beauty? I shall be with Lady Blessington the last day of the present month.
One of the best poems of our days" [on death], "appeared in the last Book of Beauty. But in
general its poetry is very indifferent. With best regards to the ladies,

"I am ever, my dear sir,

"Yours most sincerely,

"W.S.L."

       *       *       *       *       *

The following, dated merely "Gore House, Sunday morning," was written, or at least posted,
on the 14th May, 1838.

       *       *       *       *       *

"MY DEAR SIR,--It is impossible you should not often have thought me negligent and ungrateful.
Over and over again have I redd [sic], the incomparably fine poetry you sent me; and intended
that Lady Blessington should partake in the high enjoyment it afforded me. I had promised her
to be at Gore House toward the end of April, but I had not the courage to face all my friends.
However, here I came on Friday evening; and before I went to bed I redd to her ladyship what
I promised her. She was enchanted. I then requested her to toss aside some stuff of mine, and
to make way for it in the next Book of Beauty. The gods, as Homer says, granted half my prayer,
and it happened to be (what was not always the case formerly) the better half. She will insert
both. It is only by some such means as that that the best poetry in our days comes with mincing
step into popularity. Mine being booted and spurred, both ladies and gentlemen get out of the
way of it, and look down at it with a touch of horror.

"Now for news, and about your neighbours. Captain Ackland is going to marry a niece of Massy
Dawson. Mischievous things are said about poor Lady M----, all false, you may be sure. Admiral
Aylmer after all his services under Nelson, &c., &c., is unable to procure a commission in
the marines for his nephew, Frederick Paynter. Lord A. will not ask. I am a suitor to all the
old women I know, and shall fail too, for it is not the thing they want me to ask of them.

"I see two new Deputy Lord-Lieutenants have been appointed for the County of Monmouth. My estate
there is larger than the Lord Lieutenant's; yet even this mark of respect has not been paid
me. It might be, safely. I shall consider myself sold to the devil, and for more than my value,
when I accept any distinction, or anything else from any man living. The Whigs are growing
unpopular, I hear. I hope never to meet any of them. Last night, however, I talked a little
with Grantley Berkeley, and told him a bit of my mind. You see, I have not much more room in
my paper, else I should be obliged to tell you that the bells are ringing, and that I have
only just time to put on my gloves for church.

"Adieu, and believe me with kindly regards to the ladies,

"Yours,

"W.S.L."

       *       *       *       *       *

The last in this series of letters which has reached my hands is altogether undated, but appears
by the post-mark to have been written from Bath, 19th July, 1838.

       *       *       *       *       *

"MY DEAR SIR,--There is one sentence in your letter which shocked me not a little. You say
'The Whigs have not offered you a Deputy Lieutenantcy; so cheap a distinction could not have
hurt them. But then you are too proud to ask,' &c. Do you really suppose that I would have
accepted it even if it had been offered? No, by God! I would not accept any distinction even
if it were offered by honest men. I will have nothing but what I can take. It is, however,
both an injustice and an affront to confer this dignity on low people, who do not possess a
fourth of my property, and whose family is as ignoble as Lord Melbourne's own, and not to have
offered the same to me. In the eleventh page of the Letters I published after the quelling
of Bonaparte are these words: 'I was the first to abjure the party of the Whigs, and shall
be the last to abjure the principles. When the leaders had broken all their promises to the
nation, had shown their utter incapacity to manage its affairs, and their inclination to crouch
before the enemy, I permitted my heart after some struggles to subside and repose in the cool
of this reflection--Let them escape. It is only the French nation that ever dragged such feebleness
to the scaffold,' Again, page 35--'Honest men, I confess, have generally in the present times
an aversion to the Whig faction, not because it is suitable either to honesty or understanding
to prefer the narrow principles of the opposite party, but because in every country lax morals
wish to be and are identified with public feeling, and because in our own a few of the very
best have been found in an association with the very worst.' Whenever the Tories have deviated
from their tenets, they have enlarged their views and exceeded their promises. The Whigs have
always taken an inverse course. Whenever they have come into power, they have previously been
obliged to slight those matters, and to temporise with those duties, which they had not the
courage either to follow or to renounce.

"And now, my dear sir, to pleasanter matters. I have nothing in the press, and never shall
have. I gave Forster all my works, written or to be written. Neither I nor my family shall
have anything to do with booksellers. They say a new edition of my Imaginary Conversations
is called for. I have sent Forster a dozen or two of fresh ones, but I hope he will not hazard
them before my death, and will get a hundred pounds or near it for the whole.

"If ever I attended a public dinner, I should like to have been present at that which the people
gave to you. Never let them be quiet until the Church has gone to the devil, its lawful owner,
and till something a little like Christianity takes its place. If parsons are to be Lords,
it is but right and reasonable that the Queen should be Pope. Indeed, I have no objection to
this, but I have to the other. What a singularity it is that those who profess a belief in
Christ do not obey Him, while those who profess it in Mahomet or Moses or Boodh are obedient
to their precepts, if not in certain points of morality, in all things else. Carlyle is a vigorous
thinker, but a vile writer, worse than Bulwer. I breakfasted in company with him at Milman's.
Macaulay was there, a clever clown, and Moore too, whom I had not seen till then. Between those
two Scotchmen he appeared like a glow-worm between two thistles. There were several other folks,
literary and half literary, Lord Northampton, &c., &c. I forgot Rogers. Milman has written
the two best volumes of poetry we have seen lately; but when Miss Garrow publishes hers I am
certain there will be a total eclipse of them. My friend Hare's brother, who married a sister
of the impudent coxcomb, Edward Stanley, has bought a house at Torquay, and Hare tells me that
unless he goes to Sicily be shall be there in winter. If so, we may meet; but Bath is my dear
delight in all seasons. I have been sitting for my picture, and have given it to Mrs. Paynter.
It is admirably executed by Fisher.

"Yours ever,

"W.S.L."

       *       *       *       *       *

These letters are all written upon the old-fashioned square sheet of letter paper, some gilt-edged,
entirely written over, even to the turned-down ends, and heavily sealed.

