THE MIRROR OF LITERATURE, AMUSEMENT, AND INSTRUCTION

VOL. XIII, NO. 361.] SUPPLEMENTARY NUMBER. [PRICE 2d.

       *       *       *       *       *

THE NATURALIST

       *       *       *       *       *

THE NATURALIST.

See the Engravings.

A delightful volume, of title almost synonymous with this division of the MIRROR, has just
been published. It is entitled The Journal of a Naturalist,[1] with the very appropriate motto of

  ----Plants, trees, and stones, we note,
  Birds, insects, beasts, and many rural things.

The author in his preface, says, "Many years have now passed away since we were presented with
that very interesting and amusing book, the 'Natural History of Selborne;' nor do I recollect
any publication at all resembling it having since appeared."[2] He then acknowledges the impression
which this book left on his mind; and its having given rise to the present work, to which,
in our humble opinion, it is a worthy companion.

Our "Naturalist" resides in a village upon a very ancient road, connecting Bristol and Gloucester,
in a limestone district, numbering among its picturesque beauties, the broad estuary of the
Severn, the mountains of Glamorgan, Monmouth, and Brecon, and their peaceful vales and cheerful
cottages; Thornbury, with its fine cathedral-like church and castle, the red cliffs of the
Severn, and numberless antiquities of our ancestors--as roads, encampments, aggera, watch-hills,
coins, lances, and other relics of those warlike times. Labour and healthful enjoyment reign
in this district: for it is neither torn up for its mineral wealth, nor are its natural beauties
annihilated, or the habits of its population corrupted by speculation or avarice. A portrait
of "a worthy peasant," introduced by our author, reminds us of

  ----A bold peasantry, their country's pride,
  When once destroyed, can never be supplied.

A passage quoted by the late Mr. Canning, in one of his finest speeches; and we often contrast
this vigorous outline of the people of "merry England" with her artificial state of after times.
Next are a page or two of agricultural chemistry (analysis of soils) unfettered with technicals;
double the space of what may strictly be called rural economy, (grass lands) succeed; next
the culture and history of the potato, and some new observations on "the Teazle."

Several pages on trees possess great interest, as do those on flowers.

We regret we have room but for a few heads--the maple--the Naturalist's Autumnal Walk--the
Economy of Animals, especially of Birds: we must pass them over to elucidate our engraving of

THE GLOWWORM.

That pretty sparkler of our summer evenings, so often made the ploughboy's prize, the only
brilliant that glitters in the rustic's hat, the glowworm, (lampyris noctiluca,) is not found
in such numbers with us, as in many other places, where these signal tapers glimmer upon every
grassy bank; yet, in some seasons, we have a reasonable sprinkling of them. Every body probably
knows, that the male glowworm is a winged, erratic animal, yet may not have seen him. He has
ever been a scarce creature to me, meeting perhaps with one or two in a year; and, when found,
always a subject of admiration. Most creatures have their eyes so placed, as to be enabled
to see about them; or, as Hook says of the house-fly, to be "circumspect animals;" but this
male glowworm has a contrivance, by which any upward or side vision is prevented. Viewed when
at rest, no portion of his eyes is visible, but the head is margined with a horny band, or
plate, being a character of one of the genera of the order coleoptera, under which the eyes
are situate. This prevents all upward vision; and blinds, or winkers, are so fixed at the sides
of his eyes, as greatly to impede the view of all lateral objects. See Figures. The chief end
of this creature in his nightly peregrinations is to seek his mate, always beneath him on the
earth; and hence this apparatus appears designed to facilitate his search, confining his view
entirely to what is before or below him. The first serves to direct his flight, the other presents
the object of his pursuit: and as we commonly, and with advantage, place our hand over the
brow, to obstruct the rays of light falling from above, which enables us to see clearer an
object on the ground, so must the projecting hood of this creature converge the visual rays
to a point beneath.

Glowworms emit light only for a short period in the year; and I have but partially observed
it after the middle of July. I have collected many of these pretty creatures on a bank before
my house, into which they retire during the winter, to shine out again when revived by the
summer's warmth; but in this latter season I have frequently missed certain of my little protegés,
and have reason to apprehend, that they formed the banquet of a toad, that frequented the same
situation.

Observing above, that the glowworm does not emit light after the 14th of July, I mean thereby
that clear, steady light, which has rendered this creature so remarkable to all persons; for
I have repeatedly noticed, deep in the herbage, a faint evanescent light proceeding from these
creatures, even as late as August and September. This was particularly manifested September
the 28th, 1826. The evening was warm and dewy, and we observed on the house-bank multitudes
of these small evanescent sparks in the grass. The light displayed was very different from
that which they exhibit in warm summer months. Instead of the permanent green glow, that illumines
all the blades of the surrounding herbage, it was a pale transient spot, visible for a moment
or two, and then so speedily hidden, that we were obliged, in order to capture the creature,
to employ the light of a candle. The number of them, and their actions, creeping away from
our sight, contrary to that half lifeless dulness observed in summer, suggested the idea, that
the whole body had availed themselves of this warm, moist evening, to migrate to their winter
station. A single spark or so was to be seen some evenings after this, but no such large moving
parties were discovered again. If we conclude, that the summer light of the glowworm is displayed
as a signal taper, the appearance of this autumnal light can have no such object in view, nor
can we rationally assign any use of it to the creature itself, unless, indeed, it serves as
a point of union in these supposed migrations, like the leading call in the flight of night-moving
birds. The activity and numbers of these insects, in the above-mentioned evening, enabled me
to observe the frequent presence and disappearance of the light of an individual, which did
not seem to be the result of will, but produced by situation. During the time the insect crawled
along the ground, or upon the fine grass, the glow was hidden; but on its mounting any little
blade, or sprig of moss, it turned round and presented the luminous caudal spot, which, on
its falling or regaining its level, was hidden again.

A summary of the peculiarities of the year 1825, very appropriately concludes the volume, from
which we may be tempted to make future extracts.

THE TALIPOT TREE,

The first of our Engravings is a species of palm, a native of Ceylon, and is one of the most
magnificent wonders of the vegetable kingdom. The leaf is circular, terminating in the most
beautiful rays, and folding up into plaits like a fan, which, in figure, it nearly resembles.

This leaf is used in the maritime provinces of Ceylon as a mark of distinction, each person
being allowed to have a certain number of these leaves, folded up as fans, carried with him
by his servants; and also in the Kandian country, in the shape of a round, flat umbrella on
a long stick. The talipot leaves are likewise used by the common people to shelter themselves
from the rain, one leaf affording sufficient shelter for seven or eight persons. It is also
used in making tents.

In 1818, Sir Alexander Johnston gave to Sir Joseph Banks a very fine specimen of a tent made
of their leaves, large enough to hold a party of ten persons at table.

All the books of importance in Pali and Cingalese, relative to the religion of Buddhoo, in
Ceylon, are written on lamina of these leaves, with either a brass or an iron style. There
are some of these books in Sir A. Johnston's collections, which are supposed to be from 500
to 600 years old, and which are still very perfect. In the museum of the Asiatic Society, there
is a complete copy of the Pali book, called the Pansyapanas Iatakah, written on 1,172 laminae
of the finest description of this sort of palm leaf. Large as the dimensions of the talipot
leaf may appear, it is exceeded in size by the troolie of Surinam, which extends on the ground,
and has frequently been known to attain the width of three feet, and the length of thirty.

Our Engraving is copied from the Gardener's Magazine, where it is reduced from the Transactions
of the Asiatic Society.

THE DEATHWATCH MAGNIFIED.

Although the present may be a late hour to dissipate the faith placed in signs and tokens,
we are persuaded that a more intimate knowledge of this insect will not prove uninteresting
to our readers.[3]

The name death watch was evidently derived from the importance attached to the beatings of
the insect, which, by superstitious people, were formerly supposed to prognosticate death to
some one of the family in whose house it was heard. The natural size of the insect is about
a quarter of an inch in length, of a dark brown colour, spotted, with transparent wings under
the vagina, or sheath, a huge cap or helmet on the head, and two antennae, or feelers, from
beneath the eyes.

It is chiefly in the advanced period of spring that these insects commence their noise; and
which is the call or signal by which they are mutually attracted to each other, and may be
considered as analogous to the call of birds. This noise does not arise from their voice, but
from the insect beating on hard substances, with the shield or fore part of its head. The general
number of successive distinct strokes is from 7 to 9 or 11. These are given in pretty quick
succession, and are repeated at uncertain intervals; and in old houses, where the insects are
numerous, they may be heard, if the weather be warm, almost every hour in the day. The noise
exactly resembles that made by beating moderately hard with the finger on a table. Mr. Stackhouse
carefully observed its manner of beating. He says, the insect raises itself upon its hinder
legs, and with the body somewhat inclined, beats its head with great force and agility against
the place on which it stands.

This insect, which is the real death-watch of the vulgar, must not be confounded with another
minuter insect, which makes a ticking noise like a watch; but instead of beating at intervals,
it continues its noise for a considerable time without intermission. This latter belongs to
a very different tribe. It is usually found in old wood, decayed furniture, neglected books,
&c.; and both the male and the female have the power of making this ticking noise, in order
to attract each other. The Rev. Mr. Derham seems to have been the first naturalist who examined
and described this species; and he says that during the month of July, in one particular summer,
they scarcely ever ceased to beat either in day or night. The eggs are generally hatched about
the beginning of March: many of them live through the winter; but during that time, to avoid
the frost, they bury themselves deep in dust.

Mr. T. Carpenter (of whose paper in Gill's Repository we have already availed ourselves) tells
us that these insects are excellent anatomists: in order to render them useful in making some
delicate dissections for his microscope, Mr. Carpenter placed a few of the insects within a
pill-box, with the heads of three dead flies. He found some time afterwards, that they had
cleared the interior of some of the eyes completely from all the blood-vessels, leaving the
lenses in the cornea beautifully transparent.

       *        *        *        *        *

BIRDS' NESTS.

The structure of the nests of birds affords, perhaps, one of the most agreeable lessons in
Natural History.

Among the most curious nests of our English birds may be named that of the Wren, the long-tailed
Titmouse, the Thrush, the Goldfinch, the Chaffinch, the Magpie, and the House Sparrow; to these
may also be added the Swallow's, the Martin's, the Wood Pigeon's, and the Wood-Pecker's. Of
the nests of Rooks, it may be sufficient to observe, that they are often found to the number
of six, or even more in a cluster. Crows' nests are always solitary; they are similar in structure
to those of the rook.

Among the nests of Foreign birds, that of the Taylor Bird deserves especial mention; the bird
itself is a diminutive one, being little more than three inches long; it is an inhabitant of
India. The nest is sometimes constructed of two leaves, one of them dead; the latter is fixed
to the living one as it hangs upon the tree, by sewing both together in the manner of a pouch
or purse; it is open at the top, and the cavity is filled with fine down; and, being suspended
from the branch, the birds are secure from the depredations of snakes and monkeys, to which
they might otherwise fall a prey.

In Dr. Latham's collection is a specimen of the taylor bird's nest, composed of a single large
leaf, of a fibrous rough, texture, about six inches long independent of the stalk, five inches
and a half in breadth, and ending in a point. The sides of this leaf are drawn together so
as to meet within three-quarters of an inch; within is the nest, about four inches deep and
two broad, opening at the top; the bottom of the leaf is drawn upwards, to assist in the support
of it. The interior nest is composed of white down, with here and there a feather and a small
portion of white down intermixed.

Another nest of this bird has also been described as composed of several leaves, like those
of some kind of hazel sewed together; the inner nest formed of dry bents, fibres, and hairs,
suspended from a tree. It is, therefore, probable that this bird, as well as some others, varies
the structure of its nest as occasion and the materials may require. These singular works are
performed by the bird's using his bill instead of a needle, and vegetable fibres for thread.

The Rufous Bee-eater, or Merops Rufus, constructs also a very singular nest. This bird is a
native of Buenos Ayres; the nest is built generally on the naked great branch of a tree, sometimes
on the windows of houses, a fence, or a projecting beam of a high house or other building;
it is composed of earth, in the form of a baker's oven, and is often built in the short space
of two days, both birds being engaged in its construction; it is six inches in diameter, and
one thick; a division is within, beginning at the entrance, and carried circularly, so that
the eggs are deposited in the inner chamber, on a bed of grass. The swallow and other birds
often attempt to obtain possession of this nest, but are generally repulsed by the owners.

Many of the Orioles' nests are also deserving notice. The black and yellow Oriole, inhabiting
South America, has a pendent nest, shaped like an alembic; it is affixed to the extreme branches
of trees; sometimes, it is said, so many as four hundred nests are found hanging on the same tree.

The Philippine and Pensile Grosbeak make also very curious nests.

In concluding this account of the nests of birds, I may notice here the nest of the Hirundo
esculenta, or Esculent Swallow, an inhabitant of China and the Islands of the Indian Ocean.
The nest consists of a gelatinous substance, in shape resembling an apple cut down the middle.
The nests are found in great numbers together, and are by the luxurious Asiatics made into
broths, and otherwise cooked, and are esteemed one of the greatest dainties of the table; they
are also occasionally used for glue.--Jennings's Ornithologia.

    [1] We are pleased therefore to commence our Supplementary Sheet
        with such a volume as the present, which we have reserved for
        this purpose. The feelings which it must engender in the reader
        will be doubly grateful in these troublous times of strong
        political excitement: they enjoin "peace on earth, and goodwill
        towards men." the Divine antidote to the storms of conflicting
        interests and passions, and the balm which heals the thorny
        wounds of the world, that cross every path and tear the finest
        sympathies of our nature. It adds, moreover, a pleasant variety
        to the contents of our sheet, and alternates with the
        vicissitudes of enterprise, in the progress of infant liberty
        in the New World, as in the Memoirs of the patriot Miller;--the
        daring and recklessness of crime, as in the vivid sketch of
        First and Last;--the picturesque country and ceremonies of
        Arabia and its religious people, as drawn by Burckhardt;--and
        the architectural embellishment of the Metropolis, as shown in
        Britton's Picture of London.

    [2] In the MIRROR, dated March 1, 1828, we noticed "Gilbert White's
        Natural History of Selborne, is one of the most delightful
        household books in our language, and we are surprised at the
        rarity of such works." The publication of the Journal of a
        Naturalist, early in March, 1829, is "a coincidence."

    [3] Philosophers and wits have written on this subject. Sir Thomas
        Brown, who wrote a book of Vulgar Errors, remarks with great
        seriousness that the man "who could eradicate this error from the
        minds of the people, might prevent the fearful passions of the
        heart, and many cold sweats taking place in grandmothers and
        nurses"--Swift lets fly the shafts of satire in these lines.--

                                        A woodworm
          That lies in old wood, like a hare in her form;
          With teeth, or with claws, it will bite, or will scratch;
          And chambermaids christen this worm a death-watch;
          Because, like a watch, it always cries click;
          Then woe be to those in the house who are sick;
          For sure as a gun they will give up the ghost
          If the maggat cries click when it scratches the post.

        Gay, too, in a pastoral dirge, says,

                                      The wether's bell,
          Before the drooping flock, toll'd forth her knell;
          The solemn deathwatch click'd the hour she died.

       *       *       *       *       *

FINE ARTS

       *       *       *       *       *

METROPOLITAN IMPROVEMENTS.

Abridged from the "Introduction" to Britton's Picture of London, 26th edition, just published.

The year 1825 will ever be memorable in the annals of the metropolis; for more novel improvements,
changes, and events occurred in that one year than during any other corresponding period. Schemes
for the formation of new Companies--the vast speculations arising out of them, tending to the
aggrandizement of a few persons, and to the ruin of others, with the utilities of some, and
the futilities and impositions of many,--may also be said to belong to this year.

Let us, however, take a brief review of the real improvements and useful novelties that have
been progressing, or have commenced in London since that singular and eventful era. Commencing
at the court, or west end, we will take an imaginary tour to the east, adverting to such new
buildings as are calculated to arrest the attention of the stranger in our progress. Without
remarking on the general improvements of the age, we shall find enough to engross our attention
in the particular objects before us. The most noted, or conspicuous of these are:--1. The New
Palace, with the adjoining Park and Gardens. 2. A Terrace, Street, and Public Buildings on
the site of Carlton House. 3. Belgrave Square, and the adjoining Squares and Streets. 4. The
Entrance Lodges and Bridge in Hyde Park, with the improvements in the Roads and Walks of the
same. 5. The Regent's Park, with its Terraces, Villas, Public Buildings, Zoological Gardens,
and Colosseum. 6. The London University. 7. The British Museum. 8. The Post Office. 9. London
Bridge, and its Vicinity. 10. St. Katherine's Docks. 11. The New Buildings and Alterations
connected with the Houses of Parliament, the Ministerial Offices, and others, at Charing Cross.
All these rank among the novelties and embellished features of London; and whilst the design
and execution of so many public works manifest the increasing taste, or luxury of the age,
they employ and give encouragement to numerous artists, artisans, and tradesmen.

Of the Royal Palace, suffice it to remark, in this place, that it is a large pile of building,--has
been carried on with great rapidity of execution,--its whole exterior is stone, many parts
of which are adorned with sculptured statues, basso-relievo, and other ornaments,--that a highly-decorated
triumphal arch, composed of fine white, marble, is to be raised, at a short distance from the
centre of the principal front--and that the interior is to be splendidly adorned with marble,
scagliola, and other rich materials; whilst the galleries, armoury, chapel, state-rooms, &c.
are to display the most gorgeous ornaments of the cabinet-maker, upholsterer, decorative painter,
and other artisans.

The Park, in front of this palace, which had continued for nearly a century in one state of
formal, tasteless insipidity, has been laid out as a large pleasure-garden, interspersed with
lawn, clusters of shrubs and flowers, winding walks, varied surface, and a lake, whose margin
is made to wind with every inequality of surface, spreading occasionally into a broad expanse,
and then contracting to a narrow arm. In the midst of the larger spaces are islands, covered
with aquatic trees and shrubs.

The Gardens, or Pleasure Grounds, belonging to the Palace, partake of the same character; but
are adorned with shrubs, plants, and flowers of a more choice description. A large piece of
water is likewise formed in the midst of these Gardens.

Belgrave Square, and Vicinity. Immediately to the west of the boundary-wall of the royal gardens
is a tract of ground, which, in 1824, was open fields, intersected by mud-banks, and partly
occupied by a few sheds, and inhabited by the lowest characters of society. In 1829, the same
land, consisting of about 140 acres, is nearly covered with houses of the largest size, surrounding
spacious squares, or skirting wide and handsome streets. Of all the extraordinary works carried
into effect by London gentlemen and tradesmen, we may fairly adduce this as a pre-eminent example.
In the space of about four years, the houses surrounding one large square, called Belgrave,
have been erected, some of them finished and occupied, and several others, of nearly equal
dimensions and value, completed.

The most prominent feature of this district is Belgrave Square, which includes within the front
walls of the houses an area of about ten acres, the centre of which, enclosed by lofty and
handsome railing, is laid out as a pleasure garden. The whole of the houses are large, lofty,
and spacious, with stuccoed fronts, porches, balustraded balconies; and those in the centre
of each side are decorated with columns, or three-quarter columns, vases on the parapet, &c.

Of Eaton Square, one portion only is built at present: as laid out, planted, and railed in,
it is intended to occupy an area of about fourteen acres, and will be bounded by four rows
of houses on the north side, and the like number on the south side, having the king's private
road extending east and west through the centre. It measures 600 yards long by 120 yards wide,
between the houses. At the eastern extremity is a new church, built from the designs of Henry
Hakewill, Esq.

To the north of this district, at Hyde Park Corner, is a large new edifice appropriated to
St. George's Hospital. It is a commodious and handsome building, from the designs of R. Smirke,
Esq. Near it, and forming an entrance lodge to the Palace Gardens, is a bold, large, and highly-decorated
archway, built from the designs of Decimus Burton, Esq. Opposite is a screen of columns, with
three entrance archways, a lodge, &c. constituting an architectural entrance to Hyde Park.
Three other lodges, with gates, by Mr. Burton, form so many other entrances to the Park from
the east and north--Apsley House, the town mansion of the Duke of Wellington, at the south-east
angle of Hyde Park, is rebuilding from the designs of Messrs. B. and C. Wyatt, and will form
a handsome object at this entrance to the metropolis.

The Earl of Grosvenor has set a most laudable example to our opulent nobility, in the new wing
to his mansion in Grosvenor Street, as a gallery for his valuable pictures. It is a handsome
and imposing design, and does honour to the architect, Mr Cundy.

The new Club Houses in St. James's Street, especially that near the southern end, present imposing
fronts; and it may be added, that most of the other Club Houses have contributed very much
to adorn their respective situations, and to impart a strictly architectural character to our
street buildings.

The site of Carlton House, and its gardens, is occupied by a wide street, by a lofty terrace
overlooking the Park, by club houses, &c. Two of the latter terminate Waterloo Place, and are
appropriated to "the United Service," and "the Athenaeum;" the first built from the designs
of Mr. Nash, and the latter from those of Mr. D. Burton.

From Charing Cross to Exeter 'Change an amazing improvement has commenced. All the houses on
the north side of the Strand are taking down, and others raising, farther back, by which the
street will be much widened, and the new buildings will assume better faces, if not better
accommodation, for the tradesmen who occupy them. That museum of sheds, stalls, and filth,
Covent Garden, is also to be cleared and cleansed, and respectable ranges of shops and warerooms
are to be erected.

It is now confidently said, that "the King's College of London" is to be attached to the eastern
side of Somerset House; and that Mr. Smirke is commissioned to make a design for the building.

In the Regent's Park a new Terrace and other buildings, are in progress; the great Colosseum
is nearly finished, and the Zoological Gardens have excited unusual popularity. No less than
130,000 visiters have been admitted to view the gardens and the vivarium within the year 1828.

On the east side of the Park is a mass of buildings appropriated to St. Katherine's Hospital,
consisting of a chapel in the centre, with a group of dwellings on each side, and a detached
mansion for the master. South of this is a series of buildings, called Cumberland Terrace,
raised from the designs of Mr. Nash, which is abundantly adorned with columns, arches, statues,
and basso-relievo.

