Copyright 1916, by Martin A. Vroman.

PREFACE.

The compiler of this volume has been gathering a large amount of moral and religious reading,
from which selections have been made, admitting only those which may be read with propriety
on the Sabbath.

This volume will be found to contain the best lessons for the family circle, such as will inculcate
principles of obedience to parents, kindness and affection to brothers and sisters and youthful
associates, benevolence to the poor, and the requirements of the gospel. These virtuous principles
are illustrated by instances of conformity to them, or departure from them, in such a manner
as to lead to their love and practice.

Great care has been taken in compiling this volume to avoid introducing into it anything of
a sectarian or denominational character that might hinder its free circulation among any denomination,
or class of society, where there is a demand for moral and religious literature. The illustrations
were made especially for this book, and are the result of much careful study.

The family circle can be instructed and impressed by high-toned moral and religious lessons
in no better way during a leisure hour of the Sabbath, when not engaged in the solemn worship
of God, than to listen to one of their number who shall read from this precious volume. May
the blessing of God attend it to every home circle that shall give it a welcome, is the prayer
of the

                                                            PUBLISHER.

NOTE TO THE PUBLIC

This is the same book formerly known as "Sabbath Readings for the Home Circle," the subject
matter remaining unchanged.

We believe all who read this book will heartily accord with us in our desire to see it placed
in every home in the land, and will do their part toward this good end.

The stories and poems it contains cover nearly all phases of life's experiences. Each one presents
lessons which can but tend to make the reader better and nobler.

This decidedly valuable and interesting work now enters upon its sixth edition, one hundred
thirty thousand copies, with the demand rapidly increasing.

Many have joined us in canvassing for it, and it has proved to be not only a noble work and
a service to the people, but it brings good financial returns. Many students have worked their
way through school by using their vacations in this work.

The publisher's name and address is on the title page, and he will see that all orders are
promptly and carefully filled, and all letters of inquiry cheerfully answered. Address nearest
office.

Believing that the "Choice Readings for the Home Circle" will be appreciated by all lovers
of the true and beautiful, and that the book will make for itself not only a place, but a warm
welcome, in thousands of homes during the coming year, it is cheerfully and prayerfully sent
on its mission by

                                                        THE PUBLISHER.

Contents

Affecting Scene in a Saloon                                        388 A Good Lesson Spoiled
192 A Kind Word                                                         67 A Life Lesson  
178 A Mountain Prayer-meeting                                          144 An Instructive Anecdote
214 Another Commandment                                                 71 A Retired Merchant
90 A Rift in the Cloud                                                286

Be Just Before Generous                                             99 Benevolent Society 
199 Bread Upon the Waters                                              280

Caught in the Quicksand                                            112 Christ Our Refuge  
47 Company Manners                                                     36

Effect of Novel Reading                                             95 Evening Prayer     
342 Every Heart Has Its Own Sorrow                                     324

Grandmother's Room                                                 230

Hard Times Conquered                                               185 Herrings for Nothing
275 How It Was Blotted Out                                             166

Live Within Your Means                                             127 Look to Your Thoughts
397 Lyman Dean's Testimonials                                          251

Make It Plain                                                       83 "My House" and "Our
House"                                         138

Nellie Alton's Mother                                              393 Never Indorse      
170

Only a Husk                                                        151 Out of the Wrong Pocket
131 Over the Crossing                                                  304

Put Yourself in My Place                                           312

Richest Man in the Parish                                          296 Ruined at Home     
157

Speak to Strangers                                                 360 Story of School Life
221 Success if the Reward of Perseverance                              291 Susie's Prayer 
32

The Belle of the Ballroom                                           40 The Fence Story    
310 The Happy New Year                                                 346 The Indian's Revenge
11 The Infidel Captain                                                319 The Little Sisters
368 The Major's Cigar                                                  363 The Premium    
58 The Record                                                          25 The Right Decision
29 The Scripture Quilt                                                354 The Ten Commandments
81 The Widow's Christmas                                              374 The Young Musician
244 Tom's Trial                                                         50

Unforgotten Words                                                  263

With a Will, Joe                                                   385 "What Shall It Profit?"
115 Why He Didn't Smoke                                                217

Poems

A Christian Life                                                    89 Alone              
341 An Infinite Giver                                                  137

Believe and Trust                                                   39

Consolation                                                        111

Did You Ever Think?                                                279 Do With Your Might 
387

Forgive and Forget                                                 318

Good-Bye--God Bless You!                                           165

Life That Lasts                                                    213 Loving Words       
362

Mother                                                              28

"Once Again"                                                       114 Our Neighbors      
66 Our Record                                                         373

Reaping                                                            216

Song of the Rye                                                    156 Stop and Look Around!
309

The Dark First                                                     130 The Father Is Near 
285 The Lord's Prayer                                                  342 The Master's Hand
49 The Shadow of the Cross                                             46 The Way to Overcome
169 To-Day's Furrow                                                     98

Walking With God                                                   303 Watch Your Words   
177 What Counts                                                         57 What to Mind   
367

Your Call                                                          274

List of Illustrations

Home, Sweet Home                                          Frontispiece While He Slept His Enemy
Came and Sowed Tares Among the Wheat       44 Christ Blessing Little Children             
76 Christ the Good Shepherd                                           124 Paul at Athens  
172 Pure Religion Is Visiting the Fatherless and Widows in             207 Their Affliction
Grandmother's Room                                                 240 Come Unto Me       
278 Christ in the Home of Mary and Martha                              300 He Is Not Here;
He Is Risen                                        336 God Be Merciful to Me a Sinner     
354 Announcement to Shepherds                                          376

Pledges

Against the use of Liquor and Tobacco                              391

THE SABBATH

Sabbaths, like way-marks, cheer the pilgrim's path,
His progress mark, and keep his rest in view.
In life's bleak winter, they are pleasant days,
Short foretaste of the long, long spring to come.
To every new-born soul, each hallowed morn
Seems like the first, when everything was new.
Time seems an angel come afresh from heaven,
His pinions shedding fragrance as he flies,
And his bright hour-glass running sands of gold.
                                --Carlos Wilcox.

THE INDIAN'S REVENGE

The beautiful precept, "Do unto others as you would that they should do unto you," is drawn
from our Lord's sermon on the mount, and should be observed by all professing Christians. But
unless we are truly his children, we can never observe this great command as we ought.

History records the fact that the Roman emperor Severus was so much struck with the moral beauty
and purity of this sentiment, that he ordered the "Golden Rule," to be inscribed upon the public
buildings erected by him. Many facts may be stated, by which untutored heathen and savage tribes
in their conduct have put to shame many of those calling themselves Christians, who have indeed
the form of godliness, but by their words and actions deny the power of it. One such fact we
here relate.

Many years ago, on the outskirts of one of our distant new settlements, was a small but neat
and pretty cottage, or homestead, which belonged to an industrious young farmer. He had, when
quite a lad, left his native England, and sought a home and fortune among his American brethren.
It was a sweet and quiet place; the cottage was built upon a gently rising ground, which sloped
toward a sparkling rivulet, that turned a large sawmill situated a little lower down the stream.
The garden was well stocked with fruit-trees and vegetables, among which the magnificent pumpkins
were already conspicuous, though as yet they were wanting in the golden hue which adorns them
in autumn. On the hillside was an orchard, facing the south, filled with peach and cherry-trees,
the latter now richly laden with their crimson fruit. In that direction also extended the larger
portion of the farm, now in a high state of cultivation, bearing heavy crops of grass, and
Indian corn just coming into ear. On the north and east, the cottage was sheltered by extensive
pine woods, beyond which were fine hunting-grounds, where the settlers, when their harvests
were housed, frequently resorted in large numbers to lay in a stock of dried venison for winter
use.

At that time the understanding between the whites and the Indians, was not good; and they were
then far more numerous than they are at the present time, and more feared. It was not often,
however, that they came into the neighborhood of the cottage which has been described, though
on one or two occasions a few Minateree Indians had been seen on the outskirts of the pine
forests, but had committed no outrages, as that tribe was friendly with the white men.

It was a lovely evening in June. The sun had set, though the heavens still glowed with those
exquisite and radiant tints which the writer, when a child, used to imagine were vouchsafed
to mortals to show them something while yet on earth, of the glories of the New Jerusalem.
The moon shed her silvery light all around, distinctly revealing every feature of the beautiful
scene which has been described, and showed the tall, muscular figure of William Sullivan, who
was seated upon the door-steps, busily employed in preparing his scythes for the coming hay
season. He was a good-looking young fellow, with a sunburnt, open countenance; but though kind-hearted
in the main, he was filled with prejudices, acquired when in England, against Americans in
general, and the North American Indians in particular. As a boy he had been carefully instructed
by his mother, and had received more education than was common in those days; but of the sweet
precepts of the gospel he was as practically ignorant as if he had never heard them, and in
all respects was so thoroughly an Englishman, that he looked with contempt on all who could
not boast of belonging to his own favored country. The Indians he especially despised and detested
as heathenish creatures, forgetful of the fact that he who has been blessed with opportunities
and privileges, and yet has abused them, is in as bad a case, and more guilty in the sight
of God, than these ignorant children of the wilds.

So intent was he upon his work, that he heeded not the approach of a tall Indian, accoutred
for a hunting excursion, until the words:--

"Will you give an unfortunate hunter some supper, and a lodging for the night?" in a tone of
supplication, met his ear.

The young farmer raised his head; a look of contempt curling the corners of his mouth, and
an angry gleam darting from his eyes, as he replied in a tone as uncourteous as his words:--

"Heathen Indian dog, you shall have nothing here; begone!"

The Indian turned away; then again facing young Sullivan, he said in a pleading voice:--

"But I am very hungry, for it is very long since I have eaten; give only a crust of bread and
a bone to strengthen me for the remainder of my journey."

"Get you gone, heathen hound," said the farmer; "I have nothing for you."

A struggle seemed to rend the breast of the Indian hunter, as though pride and want were contending
for the mastery; but the latter prevailed, and in a faint voice he said:--

"Give me but a cup of cold water, for I am very faint."

This appeal was no more successful than the others. With abuse he was told to drink of the
river which flowed some distance off. This was all that he could obtain from one who called
himself a Christian, but who allowed prejudice and obstinacy to steel his heart--which to one
of his own nation would have opened at once--to the sufferings of his redskinned brother.

With a proud yet mournful air the Indian turned away, and slowly proceeded in the direction
of the little river. The weak steps of the native showed plainly that his need was urgent;
indeed he must have been reduced to the last extremity, ere the haughty Indian would have asked
again and again for that which had been once refused.

Happily his supplicating appeal was heard by the farmer's wife. Rare indeed is it that the
heart of woman is steeled to the cry of suffering humanity; even in the savage wilds of central
Africa, the enterprising and unfortunate Mungo Park was over and over again rescued from almost
certain death by the kind and generous care of those females whose husbands and brothers thirsted
for his blood.

The farmer's wife, Mary Sullivan, heard the whole as she sat hushing her infant to rest; and
from the open casement she watched the poor Indian until she saw his form sink, apparently
exhausted, to the ground, at no great distance from her dwelling. Perceiving that her husband
had finished his work, and was slowly bending his steps toward the stables with downcast eyes--for
it must be confessed he did not feel very comfortable--she left the house, and was soon at
the poor Indian's side, with a pitcher of milk in her hand, and a napkin, in which was a plentiful
meal of bread and roasted kid, with a little parched corn as well.

"Will my red brother drink some milk?" said Mary, bending over the fallen Indian; and as he
arose to comply with her invitation, she untied the napkin and bade him eat and be refreshed.

When he had finished, the Indian knelt at her feet, his eyes beamed with gratitude, then in
his soft tone, he said: "Carcoochee protect the white dove from the pounces of the eagle; for
her sake the unfledged young shall be safe in its nest, and her red brother will not seek to
be revenged."

Drawing a bunch of heron's feathers from his bosom, he selected the longest, and giving it
to Mary Sullivan, said: "When the white dove's mate flies over the Indian's hunting-grounds,
bid him wear this on his head."

He then turned away; and gliding into the woods, was soon lost to view.

The summer passed away; harvest had come and gone; the wheat and maize, or Indian corn, was
safely stored in the yard; the golden pumpkins were gathered into their winter quarters, and
the forests glowed with the rich and varied tints of autumn. Preparations now began to be made
for a hunting excursion, and William Sullivan was included in the number who were going to
try their fortune on the hunting-grounds beyond the river and the pine forests. He was bold,
active, and expert in the use of his rifle and woodman's hatchet, and hitherto had always hailed
the approach of this season with peculiar enjoyment, and no fears respecting the not unusual
attacks of the Indians, who frequently waylaid such parties in other and not very distant places,
had troubled him.

But now, as the time of their departure drew near, strange misgivings relative to his safety
filled his mind, and his imagination was haunted by the form of the Indian whom in the preceding
summer he had so harshly treated. On the eve of the day on which they were to start, he made
known his anxiety to his gentle wife, confessing at the same time that his conscience had never
ceased to reproach him for his unkind behavior. He added, that since then all that he had learned
in his youth from his mother upon our duty to our neighbors had been continually in his mind;
thus increasing the burden of self-reproach, by reminding him that his conduct was displeasing
in the sight of God, as well as cruel toward a suffering brother. Mary Sullivan heard her husband
in silence. When he had done, she laid her hand in his, looking up into his face with a smile,
which was yet not quite free from anxiety, and then she told him what she had done when the
Indian fell down exhausted upon the ground, confessing at the same time that she had kept this
to herself, fearing his displeasure, after hearing him refuse any aid. Going to a closet, she
took out the beautiful heron's feather, repeating at the same time the parting words of the
Indian, and arguing from them that her husband might go without fear.

"Nay," said Sullivan, "these Indians never forgive an injury."

"Neither do they ever forget a kindness," added Mary. "I will sew this feather in your hunting-cap,
and then trust you, my own dear husband, to God's keeping; but though I know he could take
care of you without it, yet I remember my dear father used to say that we were never to neglect
the use of all lawful means for our safety. His maxim was, 'Trust like a child, but work like
a man'; for we must help ourselves if we hope to succeed, and not expect miracles to be wrought
on our behalf, while we quietly fold our arms and do nothing." "Dear William," she added, after
a pause, "now that my father is dead and gone, I think much more of what he used to say than
when he was with me; and I fear that we are altogether wrong in the way we are going on, and
I feel that if we were treated as we deserve, God would forget us, and leave us to ourselves,
because we have so forgotten him."

The tears were in Mary's eyes as she spoke; she was the only daughter of a pious English sailor,
and in early girlhood had given promise of becoming all that a religious parent could desire.
But her piety was then more of the head than of the heart; it could not withstand the trial
of the love professed for her by Sullivan, who was anything but a serious character, and like
"the morning cloud and the early dew," her profession of religion vanished away, and as his
wife she lost her relish for that in which she once had taken such delight. She was very happy
in appearance, yet there was a sting in all her pleasures, and that was the craving of a spirit
disquieted and restless from the secret though ever-present conviction that she had sinned
in departing from the living God. By degrees these impressions deepened; the Spirit of grace
was at work within, and day after day was bringing to her memory the truths she had heard in
childhood and was leading her back from her wanderings by a way which she knew not. A long
conversation followed; and that night saw the young couple kneeling for the first time in prayer
at domestic worship.

The morning that witnessed the departure of the hunters was one of surpassing beauty. No cloud
was to be seen upon the brow of William Sullivan. The bright beams of the early sun seemed
to have dissipated the fears which had haunted him on the previous evening, and it required
an earnest entreaty on the part of his wife to prevent his removing the feather from his cap.
She held his hand while she whispered in his ear, and a slight quiver agitated his lips as
he said, "Well, Mary dear, if you really think this feather will protect me from the redskins,
for your sake I will let it remain." William then put on his cap, shouldered his rifle, and
the hunters were soon on their way seeking for game.

The day wore away as is usual with people on such excursions. Many animals were killed, and
at night the hunters took shelter in the cave of a bear, which one of the party was fortunate
enough to shoot, as he came at sunset toward the bank of the river. His flesh furnished them
with some excellent steaks for supper, and his skin spread upon a bed of leaves pillowed their
heads through a long November night.

With the first dawn of morning, the hunters left their rude shelter and resumed the chase.
William, in consequence of following a fawn too ardently, separated from his companions, and
in trying to rejoin them became bewildered. Hour after hour he sought in vain for some mark
by which he might thread the intricacy of the forest, the trees of which were so thick that
it was but seldom that he could catch a glimpse of the sun; and not being much accustomed to
the woodman's life, he could not find his way as one of them would have done, by noticing which
side of the trees was most covered with moss or lichen. Several times he started in alarm,
for he fancied that he could see the glancing eyeballs of some lurking Indian, and he often
raised his gun to his shoulder, prepared to sell his life as dearly as he could.

Toward sunset the trees lessened and grew thinner, and by and by he found himself upon the
outskirts of an immense prairie, covered with long grass, and here and there with patches of
low trees and brushwood. A river ran through this extensive tract, and toward it Sullivan directed
his lagging footsteps. He was both faint and weary, not having eaten anything since the morning.
On the bank of the river there were many bushes, therefore Sullivan approached with caution,
having placed his rifle at half-cock, to be in readiness against any danger that might present
itself. He was yet some yards from its brink, when a rustling in the underwood made him pause,
and the next instant out rushed an enormous buffalo. These animals usually roam through the
prairies in immense herds, sometimes amounting to many thousands in number; but occasionally
they are met with singly, having been separated from the main body either by some accident,
or by the Indians, who show the most wonderful dexterity in hunting these formidable creatures.
The buffalo paused for a moment, and then lowering his enormous head, rushed forward toward
the intruder. Sullivan took aim; but the beast was too near to enable him to do so with that
calmness and certainty which would have insured success, and though slightly wounded, it still
came on with increased fury. Sullivan was a very powerful man, and though weakened by his long
fast and fatiguing march, despair gave him courage and nerved his arm with strength, and with
great presence of mind he seized the animal as it struck him on the side with its horn, drawing
out his knife with his left hand, in the faint hope of being able to strike it into his adversary's
throat. But the struggle was too unequal to be successful, and the buffalo had shaken him off,
and thrown him to the ground, previous to trampling him to death, when he heard the sharp crack
of a rifle behind him, and in another instant the animal sprang into the air, then fell heavily
close by, and indeed partly upon, the prostrate Sullivan. A dark form in the Indian garb glided
by a moment after, and plunged his hunting-knife deep into the neck of the buffalo, though
the shot was too true not to have taken effect, having penetrated to the brain; but the great
arteries of the neck are cut, and the animal thus bled, to render the flesh more suitable for
keeping a greater length of time.

The Indian then turned to Sullivan, who had now drawn himself from under the buffalo, and who,
with mingled feelings of hope and fear, caused by his ignorance whether the tribe to which
the Indian belonged was friendly or not, begged of him to direct him to the nearest white settlement.

"If the weary hunter will rest till morning, the eagle will show him the way to the nest of
his white dove," was the reply of the Indian, in that figurative style so general among his
people; and then taking him by the hand he led him through the rapidly increasing darkness,
until they reached a small encampment lying near the river, and under the cover of some trees
which grew upon its banks. Here the Indian gave Sullivan a plentiful supply of hominy, or bruised
Indian corn boiled to a paste, and some venison; then spreading some skins of animals slain
in the chase, for his bed, he signed to him to occupy it, and left him to his repose.

The light of dawn had not yet appeared in the east when the Indian awoke Sullivan; and after
a slight repast, they both started for the settlement of the whites. The Indian kept in advance
of his companion, and threaded his way through the still darkened forest with a precision and
a rapidity which showed him to be well acquainted with its paths and secret recesses. As he
took the most direct way, without fear of losing his course, being guided by signs unknown
to any save some of the oldest and most experienced hunters, they traversed the forest far
more quickly than Sullivan had done, and before the golden sun had sunk behind the summits
of the far-off mountains, Sullivan once more stood within view of his beloved home. There it
lay in calm repose, and at a sight so dear he could not restrain a cry of joy; then turning
toward the Indian, he poured forth his heartfelt thanks for the service he had rendered him.

The warrior, who, till then, had not allowed his face to be seen by Sullivan, except in the
imperfect light of his wigwam, now fronted him, allowing the sun's rays to fall upon his person,
and revealed to the astonished young man the features of the very same Indian whom, five months
before, he had so cruelly repulsed. An expression of dignified yet mild rebuke was exhibited
in his face as he gazed upon the abashed Sullivan; but his voice was gentle and low as he said:
"Five moons ago, when I was faint and weary, you called me 'Indian dog,' and drove me from
your door. I might last night have been revenged; but the white dove fed me, and for her sake
I spared her mate. Carcoochee bids you to go home, and when hereafter you see a red man in
need of kindness, do to him as you have been done by. Farewell."

He waved his hand, and turned to depart, but Sullivan sprang before him, and so earnestly entreated
him to go with him, as a proof that he had indeed forgiven his brutal treatment, that he at
last consented, and the humbled farmer led him to his cottage. There his gentle wife's surprise
at seeing him so soon was only equaled by her thankfulness at his wonderful escape from the
dangers which had surrounded him, and by her gratitude to the noble savage who had thus repaid
her act of kindness, forgetful of the provocation he had received from her husband. Carcoochee
was treated not only as an honored guest, but as a brother; and such in time he became to them
both.

Many were the visits he paid to the cottage of the once prejudiced and churlish Sullivan, now
no longer so, for the practical lesson of kindness he had learned from the untutored Indian
was not lost upon him. It was made the means of bringing him to a knowledge of his own sinfulness
in the sight of God, and his deficiencies in duty toward his fellow men. He was led by the
Holy Spirit to feel his need of Christ's atoning blood; and ere many months passed, Mary Sullivan
and her husband both gave satisfactory evidence that they had indeed "passed from death unto life."

Carcoochee's kindness was repaid to him indeed a hundred fold. A long time elapsed before any
vital change of heart was visible in him; but at length it pleased the Lord to bless the unwearied
teaching of his white friends to his spiritual good, and to give an answer to the prayer of
faith. The Indian was the first native convert baptized by the American missionary, who came
about two years after to a station some few miles distant from Sullivan's cottage. After a
lengthened course of instruction and trial the warrior, who once had wielded the tomahawk in
mortal strife against both whites and redskins, went forth, armed with a far different weapon,
"even the sword of the Spirit, which is the word of God," to make known to his heathen countrymen
"the glad tidings of great joy," that "Christ Jesus came into the world to save sinners." He
told them that "whosoever believeth on him should not perish, but have everlasting life," whether
they be Jews or Gentiles, bond or free, white or red, for "we are all one in Christ." Many
years he thus labored, until, worn out with toil and age, he returned to his white friend's
home, where in a few months he fell asleep in Jesus, giving to his friends the certain hope
of a joyful meeting hereafter at the resurrection of the just.

Many years have passed since then. There is no trace now of the cottage of the Sullivans, who
both rest in the same forest churchyard, where lie the bones of Carcoochee; but their descendants
still dwell in the same township. Often does the gray-haired grandsire tell this little history
to his rosy grandchildren, while seated under the stately magnolia which shades the graves
of the quiet sleepers of whom he speaks. And the lesson which he teaches to his youthful hearers,
is one which all would do well to bear in mind, and act upon; namely, "Whatsoever ye would
that men should do to you, do ye even so to them."

