We went lately into the Roemerberg, to see the Kaisersaal and the other rooms formerly used
by the old Emperors of Germany, and their Senates. The former is now in the process of restoration.
The ceiling is in the gorgeous illuminated style of the middle ages; along each side arc rows
of niches for the portraits of the Emperors, which have been painted by the best artists in
Berlin, Dresden, Vienna and Munich. It is remarkable that the number of the old niches in the
hall should exactly correspond with the number of the German Emperors, so that the portrait
of the Emperor Francis of Austria, who was the last, will close the long rank coming down from
Charlemagne. The pictures, or at least such of them as are already finished, are kept in another
room; they give one a good idea of the changing styles of royal costumes, from the steel shirt
and helmet to the jewelled diadem and velvet robe. I looked with interest on a painting of
Frederic Barbarossa, by Leasing, and mused over the popular tradition that he sits with his
paladins in a mountain cave under the Castle of Kyffhäuser, ready to come forth and assist
his Fatherland in the hour of need. There was the sturdy form of Maximilian; the martial Conrad;
and Ottos, Siegfrieds and Sigismunds in plenty--many of whom moved a nation in their day, but
are now dust and forgotten.

I yesterday visited Mendelssohn, the celebrated composer. Having heard rame of his music this
winter, particularly that magnificent creation, the "Walpurgisnacht," I wished to obtain his
autograph before leaving, and sent a note for that purpose. He sent a kind note in answer,
adding a chorus out of the Walpurgisnacht from his own hand. After this, I could not repress
the desire of speaking with him. lie received me with true German cordiality, and on learning
I was an American, spoke of having been invited to attend a musical festival in New York. He
invited me to call on him if he happened to bo in Leipsic or Dresden when we should pass through,
and spoke particularly of the fine music there. I have rarely seen a man whose countenance
bears so plainly the stamp of genius. He has a glorious dark eye, and Byron's expression of
a "dome of thought," could never be more appropriately applied than to his lofty and intellectual
forehead, the marble whiteness and polish of which arc heightened by the raven hue of his hair.
He is about forty years of age, in the noon of his fame and the full maturity of his genius.
Already as a boy of fourteen he composed an opera, which was played with much success at Berlin;
he is now the first living composer of Germany. Moses Mendelssohn, the celebrated Jewish philosopher,
was his grandfather; and his father, now living, is accustomed to say that in his youth he
was spoken of as the son of the great Mendelssohn; now he is known as the father of the great
Mendelssohn!

CHAPTER XVI.

JOURNEY ON FOOT FROM FRANKFORT TO CASSEL.

The day for leaving Frankfort came at last, and I bade adieu to the gloomy, antique, but still
quaint and pleasant city. I felt like leaving a second home, so much had the memories of many
delightful hours spent there attached me to it: I shall long retain the recollection of its
dark old streets, its massive, devil-haunted bridge and the ponderous cathedral, telling of
the times of the Crusaders. I toiled up the long hill on the road to Friedberg, and from the
tower at the top took a last look at the distant city, with a heart heavier than the knapsack
whose unaccustomed weight rested uneasily on my shoulders. Being alone--starting out into the
wide world, where us yet I know no one,--I felt much deeper what it was to find friends in
a strange land. But such is the wanderer's lot.

We had determined on making the complete tour of Germany on foot, and in order to vary it somewhat,
my friend and I proposed taking different routes from Frankfort to Leipsic. He choose a circuitous
course, by way of Nuremberg and the Thuringian forests; while I, whose fancy had been running
wild with Goethe's witches, preferred looking on the gloom and grandeur of the rugged Hartz.
We both left Frankfort on the 23d of April, each bearing a letter of introduction to the same
person in Leipsic, where we agreed to meet in fourteen days. As we were obliged to travel as
cheaply as possible, I started with but seventynine florins, (a florin is forty cents American)
well knowing that if I took more, I should, in all probability, spend proportionally more also.
Thus, armed with my passport, properly visèd, a knapsack weighing fifteen pounds and a cane
from the Kentucky Mammoth Cave, I began my lonely walk through Northern Germany. The warm weather
of the week before had brought out the foliage of the willows and other early trees--violets
and cowslips were springing up in the meadows. Keeping along the foot of the Taunus, I passed
over great, broad hills, which were brown with the spring ploughing, and by sunset reached
Friedberg--a, largo city, on the summit of a hill. The next morning, after sketching its old,
baronial castle, I crossed the meadows to Nauheim, to see the salt springs there. They are
fifteen in number; the water, which is very warm, rushes up with such force as to leap several
feet above the earth. The buildings made for evaporation are nearly two miles in length; a
walk along the top gives a delightful view of the surrounding valleys. After reaching the chaussée
again, I was hailed by a wandering journeyman, or handwerker, as they are called, who wanted
company. As I had concluded to accept all offers of this kind, we trudged along together very
pleasantly, He was from Holstein, on the borders of Denmark and was just returning home, after
an absence of six years, having escaped from Switzerland after the late battle of Luzerne,
which he had witnessed. He had his knapsack and tools fastened on two wheels, which he drew
after him quite conveniently. I could not help laughing at the adroit manner in which he begged
his way along, through every village. He would ask me to go on and wait for him at the other
end; after a few minutes he followed, with a handful of small copper money, which he said he
had fought for,--the handworker's term for begged.

We passed over long ranges of hills, with an occasional view of the Vogelsgebirge, or Bird's
Mountains, far to the cast. I knew at length, by the pointed summits of the hills, that we
were approaching Giessen and the valley of the Lahn. Finally, two sharp peaks appeared in the
distance, each crowned with a picturesque fortress, while the spires of Giessen rose from the
valley below. Parting from my companion, I passed through the city without stopping, for it
was the time of the university vacation, and Dr. Liebeg, the world-renowned chemist, whom I
desired to see, was absent.

Crossing a hill or two, I came down into the valley of the Lahn, which flows through meadows
of the brightest green, with redroofed cottages nestled among gardens and orchards upon its
banks. The women here wear a remarkable costume, consisting of a red boddice with white sleeves,
and a dozen skirts, one above another, reaching only to the knees. I slept again at a little
village among the hills, and started early for Marburg. The meadows were of the purest emerald,
through which the stream wound its way, with even borders, covered to the water's edge with
grass so smooth and velvety, that a fairy might have danced along on it for miles without stumbling
over an uneven tuft. This valley is one of the finest districts in Germany. I thought, as I
saw the peaceful inhabitants at work in their fields, I had most probably, on the battle-field
of Brandywine, walked over the bones of some of their ancestors, whom a despotic prince had
torn from their happy homes, to die in a distant land, fighting against the cause of freedom.

I now entered directly into the heart of Hesse Cassel. The country resembled a collection of
hills thrown together in confusion--sometimes a wide plain left between them, sometimes a clustre
of wooded peaks, and here and there a single pointed summit rising above the rest. The vallies
were green as ever, the hill-sides freshly ploughed and the forests beginning to be colored
by the tender foliage of the larch and birch. I walked two or three hours at a "stretch," and
then, when I could find a dry, shady bank, I would rest for half an hour and finish some hastily
sketched landscape, or lay at full length, with my head on my knapsack, and peruse the countenances
of those passing by. The observation which every traveller excites, soon ceases to be embarrassing.
It was at first extremely unpleasant; but I am now so hardened, that the strange, magnetic
influence of the human eye, which we cannot avoid feeling, passes by me as harmlessly as if
turned aside by invisible mail.

During the day several showers came by, but as none of them penetrated further than my blouse,
I kept on, and reached about sunset a little village in the valley. I chose a small inn, which
had an air of neatness about it, and on going in, the tidy landlady's "be you welcome," as
she brought a pair of slippers for my swollen feet, made me feel quite at home. After being
furnished with eggs, milk, butter and bread, for supper, which I ate while listening to an
animated discussion between the village schoolmaster and some farmers, I was ushered into a
clean, sanded bedroom, and soon forgot all fatigue. For this, with breakfast in the morning,
the bill was six and a half groschen--about sixteen cents! Tin air was freshened by the rain
and I journeyed over the hills at a rapid rate. Stopping for dinner at the large village of
Wabern, a boy at the inn asked me if I was going to America? I said no, I came from there.
He then asked me many silly questions, after which he ran out and told the people of the village.
When I set out again, the children pointed at me and cried: "see there! he is from America!"
and the men took off their hats and bowed!

The sky was stormy, which added to the gloom of the hills around, though some of the distant
ranges lay in mingled light and shade--the softest alternation of purple and brown. There were
many isolated, rocky hills, two of which interested me, through their attendant legends. One
is said to have been the scene of a battle between the Romans and Germans, where, after a long
conflict the rock opened and swallowed up the former. The other, which is crowned with a rocky
wall, so like a ruined fortress, as at a distance to be universally mistaken for one, tradition
says is the death-place of Charlemagne, who still walks around its summit every night, clad
in complete armor. On ascending a hill late in the afternoon, I saw at a great distance the
statue of Hercules, which stands on the Wilhelmshöhe, near Cassel. Night set in with a dreary
rain, and I stopped at an inn about five miles short of the city. While tea was preparing a
company of students came in and asked for a separate room. Seeing I was alone, they invited
me up with them. They seemed much interested in America, and leaving the table gradually, formed
a ring around me, where I had enough to do to talk with them all at once. When the omnibus
came along, the most of them went with it to Cassel; but five remained and persuaded me to
set out with them on foot. They insisted on carrying my knapsack the whole way, through the
rain and darkness, and when I had passed the city gate with them, unchallenged, conducted me
to the comfortable hotel, "Zur Krone."

It is a pleasant thing to wake up in the morning in a strange city. Every thing is new; you
walk around it for the first time in the full enjoyment of the novelty, or the not less agreeable
feeling of surprise, if it is different from your anticipations. Two of my friends of the previous
night called for me in the morning, to show me around the city, and the first impression, made
in such agreeable company, prepossessed me very favorably. I shall not, however, take up time
in describing its many sights, particularly the Frederick's Platz, where the statue of Frederick
the Second, who sold ten thousand of his subjects to England, has been re-erected, after having
lain for years in a stable where it was thrown by the French.

I was much interested in young Carl K----, one of my new acquaintances. His generous and unceasing
kindness first won my esteem, and I found on nearer acquaintance, the qualities of his mind
equal those of his heart. I saw many beautiful poems of his which were of remarkable merit,
considering his youth, and thought I could read in his dark, dreamy eye, the unconscious presentiment
of a power he does not yet possess. He seemed as one I had known for years.

He, with a brother student, accompanied me in the afternoon, to Wilhelmshöhe, the summer residence
of the Prince, on the side of a range of mountains three miles west of the city. The road leads
in a direct line to the summit of the mountain, which is thirteen hundred feet in height, surmounted
by a great structure, called the Giant's Castle, on the summit of which is a pyramid ninety-six
feet high, supporting a statue of Hercules, copied after the Farnese, and thirty-one feet in
height. By a gradual ascent through beautiful woods, we reached the princely residence, a magnificent
mansion standing on a natural terrace of the mountain. Near it is a little theatre built by
Jerome Buonaparte, in which he himself used to play. We looked into the green house in passing,
where the floral splendor of every zone was combined. There were lofty halls, with glass roofs,
where the orange grew to a great tree, and one could sit in myrtle bowers, with the brilliant
bloom of the tropics around him. It was the only thing there I was guilty of coveting.

The greatest curiosity is the water-works, which are perhaps unequalled in the world. The Giant's
Castle on the summit contains an immense tank in which water is kept for the purpose; but unfortunately,
at the time I was there, the pipes, which had been frozen through the winter, were not in condition
to play. From the summit an inclined plane of masonry descends the mountain nine hundred feet,
broken every one hundred and fifty feet by perpendicular descents. These are the Cascades,
down which the water first rushes from the tank. After being again collected in a great basin
at the bottom, it passes into an aqueduct, built like a Roman ruin, and goes over beautiful
arches through the forest, where it falls in one sheet down a deep precipice. When it has descended
several other beautiful falls, made in exact imitation of nature, it is finally collected and
forms the great fountain, which rises twelve inches in diameter from the middle of a lake to
the height of one hundred and ninety feet! We descended by lovely walks through the forest
to the Löwenburg, built as the ruin of a knightly castle, and fitted out in every respect to
correspond with descriptions of a fortress in the olden time, with moat, drawbridge, chapel
and garden of pyramidal trees. Farther below, are a few small houses, inhabited by the descendants
of the Hessians who fell in America, supported here at the Prince's expense!

CHAPTER XVII.

ADVENTURES AMONG THE HARTZ.

On taking leave of Carl at the gate over the Göttingen road, I felt tempted to bestow a malediction
upon traveling, from its merciless breaking of all links, as soon as formed. It was painful
to think we should meet no more. The tears started into his eyes, and feeling a mist gathering
over mine, I gave his hand a parting pressure, turned my back upon Cassel and started up the
long mountain, at a desperate rate. On the summit I passed out of Hesse into Hanover, and began
to descend the remaining six miles. The road went down by many windings, but I shortened the
way considerably by a foot-path through a mossy old forest. The hills bordering the Weser are
covered with wood, through which I saw the little red-roofed city of Münden, at the bottom.
I stopped there for the night, and next morning walked around the place. It is one of the old
German cities that have not yet felt the effect of the changing spirit of the age. It is still
walled, though the towers are falling to ruin. The streets are narrow, crooked, and full of
ugly old houses, and to stand in the little square before the public buildings, one would think
himself born in the sixteenth century. Just below the city the Werra and Fulda unito and form
the Weser. The triangular point has been made into a public walk, and the little steamboat
was lying at anchor near, waiting to start for Bremen.

In the afternoon I got into the omnibus for Göttingen. The ride over the wild, dreary, monotonous
hills was not at all interesting. There were two other passengers inside, one of whom, a grave,
elderly man, took a great interest in America, but the conversation was principally on his
side, for I had been taken with a fever in Münden. I lay crouched up in the corner of the vehicle,
trying to keep off the chills which constantly came over me, and wishing only for Göttingen,
that I might obtain medicine and a bed. We reached it at last, and I got out with my knapsack
and walked wearily through half a dozen streets till I saw an inn. But on entering, I found
it so dark and dirty and unfriendly, that I immediately went out again and hired the first
pleasant looking boy I met, to take me to a good hotel. He conducted me to the first one in
the city. I felt a trepidation of pocket, but my throbbing head plead more powerfully, so I
ordered a comfortable room and a physician. The host, Herr Wilhelm, sent for Professor Trefurt,
of the University, who told me I had over-exerted myself in walking. He made a second call
the next day, when, as he was retiring, I inquired the amount of his fee. He begged to be excused
and politely bowed himself out. I inquired the meaning of this of Herr Wilhelm, who said it
was customary for travellers to leave what they chose for the physician, as there was no regular
fee. He added, moreover, that twenty groschen, or about sixty cents, was sufficient for the
two visits!

I stayed in Göttingen two dull, dreary, miserable days, without getting much better. I took
but one short walk through the city, in which I saw the outsides of a few old churches and
got a hard fall on the pavement. Thinking that the cause of my illness might perhaps become
its cure, I resolved to go on rather than remain in the melancholy--in spite of its black-eyed
maidens, melancholy--Göttingen. On the afternoon of the second day, I took the post to Nordheim,
about twelve miles distant. The Göttingen valley, down which we drove, is green and beautiful,
and the trees seem to have come out all at once. we were not within sight of the Hartz, but
the mountains along the Weser were visible on the left. The roads were extremely muddy from
the late rains, so that I proceeded but slowly.

A blue range along the horizon told me of the Hartz, as I passed; although there were some
fine side-glimpses through the hills, I did not see much of them till I reached Osterode, about
twelve miles further. Here the country begins to assume a different aspect. The city lies in
a narrow valley, and as the road goes down a steep hill towards it, one sees on each side many
quarries of gypsum, and in front the gloomy pine mountains are piled one above another in real
Alpine style. But alas! the city, though it looks exceedingly romantic from above, is one of
the dirtiest I ever saw. I stopped at Herzberg, six miles farther, for the night. The scenery
was very striking; and its effect was much heightened by a sky full of black clouds, which
sent down a hail-storm as they passed over. The hills are covered with pine, fir and larch.
The latter tree, in its first foliage, is most delicate and beautiful. Every bough is like
a long ostrich plume, and when one of them stands among the dark pines, it seems so light and
airy that the wind might carry it away. Just opposite Herzberg, the Hartz stands in its gloomy
and mysterious grandeur, and I went to sleep with the pleasant thought that an hour's walk
on the morrow would shut me up in its deep recesses.

The next morning I entered them. The road led up a narrow mountain valley, down which a stream
was rushing--on all sides were magnificent forests of pine. It was glorious to look down their
long aisles, dim and silent, with a floor of thick green moss. There was just room enough for
the road and the wild stream which wound its way zigzag between the hills, affording the most
beautiful mountain-view along the whole route. As I ascended, the mountains became rougher
and wilder, and in the shady hollows were still drifts of snow. Enjoying every thing very much,
I walked on without taking notice of the road, and on reaching a wild, rocky chasm called the
"Schlucht," was obliged to turn aside and take a footpath over a high mountain to Andreasberg,
a town built on a summit two thousand feet above the sea. It is inhabited almost entirely by
the workmen in the mines.

The way from Andreasberg to the Brocken leads along the Rehberger Graben, which carry water
about six miles for the oreworks. After going through a thick pine wood, I came out on the
mountain-side, where rough crags overhung the way above, and through the tops of the trees
I had glimpses into the gorge below. It was scenery of the wildest character. Directly opposite
rose a mountain wall, dark and stern through the gloomy sky; far below the little stream of
the Oder foamed over the rocks with a continual roar, and one or two white cloud-wreaths were
curling up from the forests.

I followed the water-ditch around every projection of the mountain, still ascending higher
amid the same wild scenery, till at length I reached the Oderteich, a great dam, in a kind
of valley formed by some mountain peaks on the side of the Brocken. It has a breastwork of
granite, very firm, and furnishes a continual supply of water for the works. It began to rain
soon, and I took a foot-path which went winding up through the pine wood. The storm still increased,
till everything was cloud and rain, so I was obliged to stop about five o'clock at Oderbruch,
a toll-house and tavern on the side of the Brocken, on the boundary between Brunswick and Hanover--the
second highest inhabited house in the Hartz. The Brocken was invisible through the storm and
the weather forboded a difficult ascent. The night was cold, but by a warm fire I let the winds
howl and the rain beat. When I awoke the next morning, we were in clouds. They were thick on
every side, hiding what little view there was through the openings of the forest. After breakfast,
however, they were somewhat thinner, and I concluded to start for the Brocken. It is not the
usual way for travellers who ascend, being not only a bad road but difficult to find, as I
soon discovered. The clouds gathered around again after I set out, and I was obliged to walk
in a storm of mingled rain and snow. The snow lay several feet deep in the forests, and the
path was, in many places, quite drifted over. The white cloud-masses were whirled past by the
wind, continually enveloping me and shutting out every view. During the winter the path had
become, in ninny places, the bed of a mountain torrent, so that I was obliged sometimes to
wade kneedeep in snow, and sometimes to walk over the wet, spongy moss, crawling under the
long, dripping branches of the stunted pines. After a long time of such dreary travelling,
I came to two rocks called the Stag Horns, standing on a little peak. The storm, now all snow,
blew more violently than ever, and the path became lost under the deep drifts.

Comforting myself with the assurance that if I could not find it, I could at least make my
way back, I began searching, and after some time, came upon it again. Here the forest ceased;
the way led on large stones over a marshy ascending plain, but what was above, or on either
side, I could not see. It was solitude of the most awful kind. There was nothing but the storm,
which had already wet me through, and the bleak gray waste of rocks. It grew sleeper and steeper;
I could barely trace the path by the rocks which were worn, and the snow threatened soon to
cover these. Added to this, although the walking and fresh mountain air had removed my illness,
I was still weak from the effects of it, and the consequences of a much longer exposure to
the storm were greatly to be feared. I was wondering if the wind increased at the same rate,
how much longer it would be before I should be carried off, when suddenly something loomed
up above me through the storm. A few steps more and I stood beside the Brocken House, on the
very summit of the mountain! The mariner, who has been floating for days on a wreck at sea,
could scarcely be more rejoiced at a friendly sail, than I was on entering the low building.
Two large Alpine dogs in the passage, as I walked in, dripping with wet, gave notice to the
inmates, and I was soon ushered into a warm room, where I changed my soaked garments for dry
ones, and sat down by the fire with feelings of comfort not easily imagined. The old landlord
was quite surprised, on hearing the path by which I came, that I found the way at all. The
summit was wrapped in the thickest cloud, and he gave me no hope for several hours of any prospect
at all, so I sat down and looked over the Stranger's Album.

I saw but two names from the United States--B.F. Atkins, of Boston, and C.A. Hay, from York,
Pa. There were a great many long-winded German poems--among them, one by Schelling, the philosopher.
Some of them spoke of having seen the "Spectre of the Brocken." I inquired of the landlord
about the phenomenon; he says in winter it is frequently seen, in summer more seldom. The cause
is very simple. It is always seen at sunrise, when the eastern side of the Brocken is free
from clouds, and at the same time, the mist rises from the valley on the opposite side. The
shadow of every thing on the Brocken is then thrown in grand proportions upon the mist, and
is seen surrounded with a luminous halo. It is somewhat singular that such a spectacle can
be seen upon the Brocken alone, but this is probably accounted for by the formation of the
mountain, which collects the mist at just such a distance from the summit as to render the
shadow visible.

Soon after dinner the storm subsided and the clouds separated a little. I could see down through
the rifts on the plains of Brunswick, and sometimes, when they opened a little more, the mountains
below us to the east and the adjoining plains, as far as Magdeburg. It was like looking on
the earth from another planet, or from some point in the air which had no connection, with
it; our station was completely surrounded by clouds, rolling in great masses around us, now
and then giving glimpses through their openings of the blue plains, dotted with cities and
villages, far below. At one time when they were tolerably well separated, I ascended the tower,
fifty feet high, standing near the Brocken House. The view on three sides was quite clear,
and I can easily imagine what a magnificent prospect it must be in fine weather. The Brocken
is only about four thousand feet high, nearly the same as the loftiest peak of the Catskill,
but being the highest mountain in Northern Germany, it commands a more extensive prospect.
Imagine a circle described with a radius of a hundred miles, comprising thirty cities, two
or three hundred villages and one whole mountain district! We could see Brunswick and Magdeburg,
and beyond them the great plain which extends to the North Sea in one direction and to Berlin
in the other, while directly below us lay the dark mountains of the Hartz, with little villages
in their sequestered valleys. It was but a few moments I could look on this scene--in an instant
the clouds swept together again and completely hid it. In accordance with a custom of the mountain,
one of the girls made me a "Brocken nosegay," of heather, lichens and moss. I gave her a few
pfennings and stowed it away carefully in a corner of my knapsack.

I now began descending the east side, by a good road over fields of bare rock and through large
forests of pine. Two or three bare brown peaks rose opposite with an air of the wildest sublimity,
and in many places through the forest towered lofty crags. This is the way by which Goethe
brings Faust up the Brocken, and the scenery is graphically described in that part of the poem.
At the foot of the mountain is the little village of Schiercke, the highest in the Hartz. Here
I took a narrow path through the woods, and after following a tediously long road over the
hills, reached Elbingerode, where I spent the night, and left the next morning for Blankenburg.
I happened to take the wrong road, however, and went through Rubeland, a little village in
the valley of the Bode. There are many iron works here, and two celebrated caves, called "Baumann's
Höhle," and "Biel's Höhle." I kept on through the gray, rocky hills to Huttenrode, where I
inquired the way to the Rosstrappe, but was directed wrong, and after walking nearly two hours
in a heavy rain, arrived at Ludwigshütte, on the Bode, in one of the wildest and loneliest
corners of the Hartz. I dried my wet clothes at a little inn, ate a dinner of bread and milk,
and learning that I was just as far from the Rosstrappe as ever, and that the way was impossible
to find alone, I hunted up a guide.

We went over the mountains through a fine old forest, for about two hours, and came out on
the brow of a hill near the end of the Hartz, with a beautiful view of the country below and
around. Passing the little inn, the path led through thick bushes along the summit, over a
narrow ledge of rocks that seemed to stretch out into the air, for on either side the foot
of the precipice vanished in the depth below.

Arrived at last at the end, I looked around me. What a spectacle! I was standing on the end
of a line of precipice which ran out from the mountain like a wall for several hundred feet--the
hills around rising up perpendicularly from the gorge below, where the Bode pressed into a
narrow channel foamed its way through. Sharp masses of gray rock rose up in many places from
the main body like pillars, with trees clinging to the clefts, and although the defile was
near seven hundred feet deep, the summits, in one place, were very near to one another. Near
the point at which I stood, which was secured by a railing, was an impression in the rock like
the hoof of a giant horse, from which the place takes its name. It is very distinct and perfect,
and nearly two feet in length.

I went back to the little inn and sat down to rest and chat awhile with the talkative landlady.
Notwithstanding her horrible Prussian dialect, I was much amused with the budget of wonders,
which she keeps for the information of travelers. Among other things, she related to me the
legend of the Rosstrappe, which I give in her own words: "A great many hundred years ago, when
there were plenty of giants through the world, there was a certain beautiful princess, who
was very much loved by one of them. Now, although the parents of this princess were afraid
of the giant, and wanted her to marry him, she herself hated him, because she was in love with
a brave knight. But, you see, the brave knight could do nothing against the great giant, and
so a day was appointed for the wedding of the princess. When they were married, the giant had
a great feast and he and all his servants got drunk. So the princess mounted his black horse
and rode away over the mountains, till she reached this valley. She stood on that square rock
which you see there opposite to us, and when she saw her knight on this side, where we are,
she danced for joy, and the rock is called the Tanzplatz, to this very day. But when the giant
found she had gone, he followed her as fast as he might; then a holy bishop, who saw the princess,
blessed the feet of her horse, and she jumped on it across to this side, where his fore feet
made two marks in the rock, though there is only one left now. You should not laugh at this,
for if there were giants then, there must have been very big horses too, as one can see from
the hoofmark, and the valley was narrower then than it is now. My dear man, who is very old
now, (you see him through the bushes, there, digging,) says it was so when he was a child,
and that the old people living then, told him there were once four just such hoof-tracks, on
the Tanzplatz, where the horse stood before he jumped over. And we cannot doubt the words of
the good old people, for there were many strange things then, we all know, which the dear Lord
does not let happen now. But I must tell you, lieber Herr, that the giant tried to jump after
her and fell away down into the valley, where they say he lives yet in the shape of a big black
dog, guarding the crown of the princess, which fell off as she was going over. But this part
of the story is perhaps not true, as nobody, that I ever heard of, has seen either the black
dog or the crown!"

After listening to similar gossip for a while, I descended the mountain-side, a short distance
to the Bülowshöhe. This is a rocky shaft that shoots, upward from the mountain, having from
its top a glorious view through the door which the Bode makes in passing out of the Hartz.
I could see at a great distance the towers of Magdeburg, and further, the vast plain stretching
away like a sea towards Berlin. From Thale, the village below, where the air was warmer than
in the Hartz and the fruit-trees already in blossom, it was four hours' walk to Halberstadt,
by a most tiresome road over long ranges of hills, all ploughed and planted, and extending
as far as the eye could reach, without a single fence or hedge. It is pleasant to look over
scenes where nature is so free and unshackled; but the people, alas! wear the fetters. The
setting sun, which lighted up the old Brocken and his snowy top, showed me also Halberstadt,
the end of my Hartz journey; but its deceitful towers fled as I approached, and I was half
dead with fatigue on arriving there.

The ghostly, dark and echoing castle of an inn (the Black Eagle) where I stopped, was enough
to inspire a lonely traveller, like myself, with unpleasant fancies. It looked heavy and massive
enough to have been a stout baron's stronghold in some former century; the taciturn landlord
and his wife, who, with a solemn servant girl, were the only tenants, had grown into perfect
keeping with its gloomy character. When I groped my way under the heavy, arched portal into
the guests' room--a large, lofty, cheerless hall--all was dark, and I could barely perceive,
by the little light which came through two deep-set windows, the inmates of the house, sitting
on opposite sides of the room. After some delay, the hostess brought a light. I entreated her
to bring me something instantly for supper, and in half an hour she placed a mixture on the
table, the like of which I never wish to taste again. She called it beer-soup! I found, on
examination, it was beer, boiled with meat, and seasoned strongly with pepper and salt! My
hunger disappeared, and pleading fatigue as an excuse for want of appetite, I left the table.
When I was ready to retire, the landlady, who had been sitting silently in a dark corner, called
the solemn servant girl, who took up a dim lamp, and bade me follow her to the "sleeping chamber."
Taking up my knapsack and staff, I stumbled down the steps into the arched gateway; before
me was a long, damp, deserted court-yard, across which the girl took her way. I followed her
with some astonishment, imagining where the sleeping chamber could be, when she stopped at
a small, one-story building, standing alone in the yard. Opening the door with a rusty key,
she led me into a bare room, a few feet square, opening into another, equally bare, with the
exception of a rough bed. "Certainly," said I, "I am not to sleep here!" "Yes," she answered,
"this is the sleeping chamber," at the same time setting down the light and disappearing. I
examined the place--it smelt mouldy, and the walls were cold and damp; there had been a window
at the head of the bed, but it was walled up, and that at the foot was also closed to within
a few inches of the top. The bed was course and dirty; and on turning down the ragged covers,
I saw with horror, a dark brown stain near the pillow, like that of blood! For a moment I hesitated
whether to steal out of the inn, and seek another lodging, late as it was; at last, overcoming
my fears, I threw my clothes into a heap, and lay down, placing my heavy staff at the head
of the bed. Persons passed up and down the courtyard several times, the light of their lamps
streaming through the narrow aperture up against the ceiling, and I distinctly heard voices,
which seemed to be near the door. Twice did I sit up in bed, breathless, with my hand on the
cane, in the most intense anxiety; but fatigue finally overcame suspicion, and I sank into
a deep sleep, from which I was gladly awakened by daylight. In reality, there may have been
no cause for my fears--I may have wronged the lonely innkeepers by them; but certainly no place
or circumstances ever seemed to me more appropriate to a deed of robbery or crime. I left immediately,
and when a turn in the street hid the ill-omened front of the inn, I began to breathe with
my usual freedom.

CHAPTER XVIII.

NOTES IN LEIPSIC AND DRESDEN.

Leipsic, May 8.--I have now been nearly two days in this wide-famed city, and the more I see
of it the better I like it. It is a pleasant, friendly town, old enough to be interesting,
and new enough to be comfortable. There in much active business life, through which it is fast
increasing in size and beauty. Its publishing establishments are the largest in the world,
and its annual fairs attended by people from all parts of Europe. This is much for a city to
accomplish, situated alone in the middle of a great plain, with no natural charms of scenery
or treasures of art to attract strangers. The energy and enterprise of its merchants have accomplished
all this, and it now stands, in importance, among the first cities of Europe.

