This was all very pleasant and ingenious, but the system of forcing was attended with its usual
disadvantage. There was sometimes not the right taste about the premature productions, and
they didn't always keep well.

The Doctor's was a mighty fine House, fronting the river. Not always a joyful style of House
within; sometimes quite the contrary. The seats were in rows, like figures in a sum. The sitters
also were often in rows--with a slight (phonetic) difference. The House was well provided with
Hot Water, on the "constant-supply" system. But somehow this seemed rather to conduce to discomfort
than to real cleanliness,--like the too frequent and tumultuous "turning-outs" of an over-zealous
housewife. A "Spring Clean," at St. Stephen's School, was a thing to remember, and shudder
at. It was not a quiet House at the best of times. It seemed ever haunted by the Banshee of
Noise, and disturbed by the cacophonous ghosts of dead Echoes. At the peacefulest periods it
was pervaded by a baneful Spook called the "Party Spirit," and always by the dull booings of
unwilling young gentlemen at their lessons, like the raucous murmurings of an assemblage of
melancholy rooks, or of kites and crows cawing and screaming in the intervals of their clamorous
scufflings.

       *       *       *       *       *

Holidays? Oh dear yes! If there was one thing Doctor GLADSTONE'S "young friends" did care for,
it was Holidays! The Doctor himself seemed as though he could--and were it possible--would
do without them. But the Doctor's "lit-tle friends," however docile, could never be brought
to see that. They did not usually commence their Spring "term" until February. And they were
rips, even rampant, for a long "Recess" at Easter. When the Doctor, using his well-beloved
formula, said, "Gentlemen, we will resume our studies upon----" they hung upon his words, and,
if the conclusion of his formula showed any disposition to cut the Holidays short, they howled
loudly in chorus, like hungry wolves disappointed of their quarry.

       *       *       *       *       *

It was a sight to see Doctor GLADSTONE'S little friends returning to School after the Easter
Vacation. The Doctor, looking complacently expansive, cheerily anticipative, welcomed them
on the doorstep. They did not welcome him. Oh, dear no! Look at them; the five senior pupils
in front, headed, of course, by that overgrown and somewhat ungainly Irish boy, Master PATRICK
GREEN, cock of the School, and prime favourite of Doctor GLADSTONE! Can you not fancy them
singing--after a famous original--the following quintett?

           The Five. Five little boys for school are we,
                       Back from a very short ho-li-dee;
                       All as reluctant as well can be,--
                           Five little boys for School!
       Master Green. Holiday's over, there's no more fun!      [Groans.
       Master Hodge. Only just started! Wish I was done!      [Snivels.
        Master Bung. As for me, wish I'd never begun!       [Howls.
           The Five.     Five little boys for School!
  All (shrinking). Five little boys who, all unwary,
                       Entered old GLADSTONE'S big seminary,
                       Slaves to his Genius tutelary----
  The Five (suddenly demure, on catching sight of the Doctor)--
                           Five little boys "back to School!.!"

       *       *       *       *       *

       *       *       *       *       *

SONGS OF SOCIETY. II.--A LETTER OF ADVICE.

From Miss Belinda Bullion at Monte Carlo, to Miss Angelina Veaudor, in Mayfair. (Being a Pendant
to a celebrated Poem by Praed.)

  They tell me you've "landed" a lover
    (Don't pout at the slang, dear, 'tis chic),
  Before your first Season is over,
    Before I have left you a week.
  I learned the good news through my mother.
    Who is he? I wish I could guess.
  If it's dear Lord FITZ-FRUMPINGTON'S brother,
    My own ANGELINA, say "Yes."

  Tres chère, we know Fortune and Fashion
    Are sensible girlhood's sole guides,
  Smart maidenhood ridicules passion,
    And sentiment calmly derides.
  I gave you "Bel Ami" as token
    That we were not victims of "glow;"
  You gave me your vow--is it broken?
    My own ANGELINA, say "No!"

  We vowed, dear, no matter at what age,
    By Sentiment not to be hooked,
  Or cheated by Love in a Cottage,
    Or Shepherds enchantingly crook'd.
  Too well, dear, we know modern men's tone,
    Of "briar" the pipes which they blow.
  Say, have you gone soft à la SHENSTONE?
    My own ANGELINA, say "No!"

  Remember the cynic romances
    We read in that Devonshire glen!
  We are not the slaves of girl-fancies,
    We've learned far too much about Men!
  'Tis nice, with your head on his shoulder,
    To whirl through the waltz with FRANK LOWE,
  But should poor Adonis grow bolder,
    My own ANGELINA, say "No!"

  You know without wealth and a carriage
    Life's just a prolonged fit of spleen,
  So don't let me mourn o'er your marriage
    With any poor BROWN, JONES, or GREEN.
  You swore mere romance should not thrill you,
    Nor gold-less good looks make you glow;
  And you will not go back on it--will you?
    My own ANGELINA, say "No!"

  We're parted, but sympathy's fetter
    Unites us, I'm sure of it, still.
  I read your last laughable letter,
   And see you are steering with skill.
  True Love is all fiddlededee, love,
    Full coffers count only, below.
  If he's not what your husband should be, Love,
    My own ANGELINA, say "No!"

  If he's over polite in his wooing,
    If his heart is too plainly a-throb,
  If he scarce seems aware what he's doing,
    If he speaks with a blush or a sob;
  If he is not "dead nuts" on his dinner,
    If his voice or his spirits run low;
  If he seems getting paler or thinner,
    My own ANGELINA, say "No!"

  If he gives too much time to his Tennis,
    Neglectful of dear L. S. D.,
  If he chatters of WHISTLER and Venice,
   If he cares about Five o'clock Tea;
  If he's not sometimes rude or capricious
    (All swells who have money are so),
  Such signs are extremely suspicious;
    My own ANGELINA, say "No!"

  If he shows a contempt for "the City,"
    And drops little jeers about Jews,
  If he talks of "the People" with pity,
    Or rails at the Sweaters as "screws,"
  These things prove a "popular leaning,"
    And popular leanings are low;
  Soft heart, and slack purse, are their meaning--
   My own ANGELINA, say "No!"

  If he prates about Property's duties
    In diction at all Gladstonese,
  If he's down on Society Beauties,
    If he has not a stare that can freeze;
  If he does not abuse Foreign Powers,
    And vote all philosophy slow,
  If he's one of the time's "big Bow-wowers,"
    My own ANGELINA, say "No!"

  He must walk like a Cit in his glory,
    Of Money the true modern test,
  He must be--yes, of course, dear--a Tory,
    (As partis that party are best)
  If he knows not the old Carlton's portal,
    Then--unless you've a Duke for a beau--
  I beg you--for girls are but mortal--
    My own ANGELINA, say "No!"

  Don't bother about his extraction
    Although there's a charm in good birth,
  But Wealth yields life's sole satisfaction,
    So find out, dear girl, what he's worth!
  He may be but an oil-striking Yankee,
    Eccentric in manners and dress,
  But, if he has tin worth a "thankee,"
    My own ANGELINA, say "Yes!"

       *       *       *       *       *

MISTER JACKY'S VADE MECUM FOR THE EASTER HOLIDAYS.

Question. What is the chief object you wish to attain during the Vacation?

Answer. To have the best time possible under the most favourable conditions.

Q. Is the comfort of your relations and friends to be taken into serious account in attaining
this desirable end?

A. Certainly not; the details to which you refer are unworthy of a moment's consideration.

Q. Have you any objection to upsetting all the household arrangements on your arrival?

A. Unquestionably no. If a morning performance commences at an hour early enough to require
luncheon to be discussed at 12:30, why the déjeuner à la fourchette (as the French would say)
must be partaken within half-an-hour of noon. In like manner, if an evening representation
begins at seven, the dinner-hour must be put back to half-past five.

Q. If these alterations cause any disturbance of your father's habits, how would you deal with
the matter?

A. I would not deal with the matter at all. I would leave all purely necessary explanations
to my mother.

Q. During the time of your vacation will you approve of any dinner-parties?

A. I have a rooted objection to such entertainments when the guests are of my parents' selection.
However, I have no objection to a few fellows, say, like SMITH Major, or BROWN Minor, dropping
in to supper on a Sunday.

Q. Assuming that the hour you mention is your parents' favourite time for peace and quiet,
does such an invasion suggest any reflection?

A. No. If my parents have become slow during my enforced absence from home in the search of
knowledge, it is time they should have the benefit accruing from contact with my revivifying
characteristics.

Q. Supposing your father expostulates with you, and advances the fact that you have received
greater advantages than he himself enjoyed--for instance, that you have been to Eton--what
should you reply?

A. Practically nothing. However, in the cause of justice and truth, it might be advisable to
answer his statement of fact that "he had never been to Eton" with the reply, "Anyone could
see that."

Q. If he complains that you do not rise until eleven, smoke cigarettes in the dining-room before
lunch, smash the grand piano in the drawing-room, lame his favourite cob in the Row, and upset
all his documents in the study, what answer would you make?

A. That you were not responsible for the training which he had taken under his personal control.
He must be satisfied with the broad result of your bringing-up.

Q. If he declares his intention of addressing the Superintendent of your scholastic career
on the matter, what would you do?

A. Explain that your present position in the school, to which you supposed you would have to
reluctantly return, was lacking in the element of popularity, and that any further move in
the direction of increased reduction in that element might possibly lead to your expulsion.
Deprecate personal objection to expulsion, but suggest that such a course might, by preventing
your getting employment in the Church, Army, or Bar, lead to your being on your parents' hands
for life.

Q. When the time has all but arrived for your return to school, what should you do?

A. Promptly catch the whooping-cough, the influenza, or measles. You will then afford a sufficient
reason for extending the length of your vacation indefinitely.

       *       *       *       *       *

       *       *       *       *       *

NOBLE SELF-SACRIFICE.

"The Duke of DEVONSHIRE has arranged to return from Monte Carlo on Saturday," so said the Morning
Post, "in order to address a political meeting at Glasgow on April 14th." His Grace having
torn himself away from delightful Monte Carlo, will then attempt to turn the tables on the
Liberales Gladstonienses. But fancy renouncing sunny Mount Charles--"O Charley Mount is a pleasant
place," as sang Miles na Coppaleen, who was, by the way, miles away from Monte Carlo--with
its azure sky, its deep blue sea, its verdant green-cloth table land, its delightful promenades
à pied, and its frisky gambols à la roulette, where the sunset and sunrise are rouge, and noir
is only "on the cards." Fancy renouncing these gay southern delights to live a laborious day
in dry, hard, northern Glasgow! "O swallow, swallow, flying, flying South," how would you like
to be checked in your holiday-making airy career in order to be brought back to the cold and
cruel North? Such a self-sacrifice as this is indeed memorable.

       *       *       *       *       *

LOVE BY THE SEA.   WIND N.E. BY E.

  "We do not speak as we pass by!"
  But tears down trickle from our eye!
  Alas! Our love remains untold----
  For each has got a thundering cold!

       *       *       *       *       *

BOOKS THAT OUGHT TO APPEAR.

I Banish the Street Organs! By the Author of I Forbid the Banns!

A Boy's Present. (Birthday Book.) By the Author of A Girl's Past.

No. 1 of The Domestic Lyre, as a Companion to The Family Storyteller.

       *       *       *       *       *

YET THEY LOOK SO INNOCENT!--In the Language of Flowers, what species should always express
untruths?--Li-lies. The Master Builder been diligently at work, but result disappointing. On
Friday he got terribly snubbed by SPEAKER. Comes up to-day to make personal explanation. That
a bait at which House usually jumps; always ready to be amused, or interested with scandal
about Queen ELIZABETH and other persons. These things usually promised by personal explanation.
To-day no flutter of excitement moved crowded House. JEMMY, approaching table with most judicial
air, received with mocking laughter, and ironical cheers. Some difficulty in quite making out
what he was at. Evidently something to do with SQUIRE of MALWOOD; but SQUIRE so inextricably
mixed up with Supplementary Estimates, couldn't make out which was which. JAMES pounded along
in most ponderous style; SQUIRE contemptuously replied; no one else inclined to join in conversation,
and the Master Builder gloomily resumed his seat.

"Never mind," I said, not liking to see an old friend cast down; "Rome wasn't built in a day,
nor the Cave of Adullam excavated in a week. These things grow. You must have patience, and
the Lowther Arcade will still flourish. Let me see, whom you have got? There's BARTLEY, HANBURY,
and TOMMY BOWLES. LOWE, forming his Cave, hadn't so many to start with."

"Yes," said the Master Builder, "that's all very well; but, fact is, you can't reckon upon
these fellows as being, so to speak, colonnades in the Arcade. They are all on their own hook;
fighting for their own hand; won't take the lead from me; must go foraging for themselves.
HANBURY thinks he can boss a show better than most men. BARTLEY'S obstreperous. TOMMY BOWLES
would be all right if he were left to himself, free from the companionship of designing men.
He is young, ingenuous, not wholly lost to a sense of regard for his pastors and masters, lack
of which is the curse of modern Youth. I believe TOMMY respects me, and, only for the evil
communications to which he is subject on the back bench, would work loyally with me in establishing
the Arcade."

There was unwonted moisture in the Master Builder's eye as he turned round, and regarded the
Member for King's Lynn what time he softly whistled to himself the old Jacobite air, "Tommy
make Room for your Uncle."

Business done.--Vote of Censure moved by Prince ARTHUR; Government majority runs up on division
to 47; Ministerialists, fresh from meeting at Foreign Office, agree that, on whole, have spent
a happy day. Debate spasmodically dull. Prince ARTHUR could not lift it out of the rut, nor
GRANDOLPH either. Only Mr. G. shone with effulgent light through gloom of evening. Principal
result of manoeuvre, beyond giving fillip to majority, is that a day will be filched from meagre
holidays, and House must needs sit on Thursday.

Tuesday.--Mr. G. looked in in time to say a few words in reply to Prince ARTHUR'S inquiries
as to business arrangements. Later he came back, and delivered excellent speech; brief, and
direct to point. House been talking all morning round Vote on Account. MACFARLANE done Rule-of-three
sum, to show how twelve hundred days are lost every week by necessity imposed upon Members
of coming down two hours in advance to take their seats. Some disposition shown by practical
Members to argue question whether there could be twelve hundred days in any week, even in Leap-Year.

"I know I'm right," said MACFARLANE, and the sceptics, gazing respectfully at his flowing beard,
withdrew from controversy.

House divided on Motion by LEGH to reduce Foreign Office Vote. Ministerial majority run up
at a jump to 225. Time by Westminster clock, 6.10 P.M.; in twenty minutes, sitting will be
suspended; Vote must be through Committee to-day; TOMMY BOWLES (who hasn't made a speech for
a quarter of an hour) on his feet; sheafs of manuscript in his hand; would certainly oblige
to extent of twenty minutes; BARON DE WORMS also has a few remarks to offer; probable length
of Channel Tunnel. Mr. G. interposes. "Mr. MELLOR," he said, addressing Chairman, "I claim
to have the question now put."

Ringing cheers went up from Ministerialists. TOMMY resumed his seat; gruefully glanced at notes.
The Noble Baron saw in this manoeuvre fresh proof that Mr. G. had sold himself to Germany;
having completed preparation for separation of the Empire on the side of the Irish Channel,
would immediately after, by medium of WATKIN'S Tunnel, place what was left of the country at
the mercy of a foreign foe. Meanwhile Closure moved; what's more, carried on division by swingeing
majority of over a hundred. So Vote agreed to; Mr. G. gets off for short drive before dressing
for dinner.

Earned a night's rest, and a longer Easter holiday than he has allotted to himself and us.
Older he gets, the younger he seems. His work to-day should make the eight-hours' man blush.
At bay in Downing Street since twelve o'clock with two hostile deputations. Came from Ulster
and the City, resolved to beard Home-Rule Lion in his den. Alone he met them; one down, the
other come on; no interval of rest; picked men from Ulster, Selected Captains from the City,
surged around table at which he sat. Hardly left him time to reply. Having politely conducted
Ulster to door, enter the City Fathers, fresh and eager for fray. Told him over again in varied
phrase how he was bringing country to verge of ruin; listened with perfect courtesy, as if
they'd been discussing someone else--say, his next-door neighbour, SQUIRE of MALWOOD and Junior
Lord of Downing Street. Up again when last in list of City speakers had concluded. Almost persuaded
JOHN LUBBOCK to be a Home-Ruler; then down to House, dealing with mass of correspondence littering
his table in room behind SPEAKER'S chair; alert on sound of division-bell; comes in to move
Closure; remembers that in long list of speeches never made this particular one before; looks
up PALGRAVE'S Handbook; cons his lesson and declaims brief formula in deep rich voice that
lends touch of eloquence to its unadorned, remorseless demand. All this, too, following on
a day like yesterday, when two other deputations stormed Downing Street; drew from him weighty
reply; followed, after hasty dinner, by a speech in the House on the eternal Irish question,
which GRANDOLPH rightly termed, "entrancing."

"A Grand Old Man, indeed!" said PRINCE ARTHUR, talking over these things to-night, when he
should have been listening to TOMMY BOWLES, who having at the morning sitting had his speech
on Vote on Account closured, delivered another at evening sitting on the question of the Depreciation
of Silver as it affects domestic architecture in China and Peru.

Business done.--Vote on Account through Committee.

Thursday.--CAINE going about House this afternoon, his slim figure bulging out at the pockets
in mysterious fashion, "Brought your supper with you?" I asked, lightly touching one of the
excrescences that felt like an imperial pint of ginger-beer (WHITE 1880). "You seem bursting
with broiled bones. All no use. No more all-night sittings this side of Easter."

"No, my boy, you're wrong," said CAINE. "Fact is, I'm going off to the country, and these protuberances
you observe about my person are phonograms. All labelled, you see," he said, taking out cylinders
from several pockets. "Here are a few remarks on Registration; that's my Local-Veto Speech;
and here is an entirely new view of the Home-Rule question. If you like to come over to my
house at Clapham--close by, you know, busses every ten minutes--you shall have a night's thorough
enjoyment. Leave you in the room by yourself with the phonograph. Pop in one of these cylinders;
set the phonograph whizzing; and you'll hear me on Local Veto. Take out cylinder, put in another,
and you'll know more about Home Rule in five minutes than you ever dreamt. Can only let you
have them for to-night. To-morrow they go down to Yorkshire, and thro' Easter Recess I shall
be delivering, at various places, six speeches every night, I myself comfortably making holiday
in Wales." "Thank you," I said; "but, if you'll excuse me, I think I'll go home and go to bed."
In truth, a little depressed. Here's a nice prospect for the holidays! Bad enough to have Members
working off at public meetings speeches that had been closured in Commons. But if every man
is, during the recess, to multiply himself by phonography, the last state of this country will
be worse than the first.

Business done.--Adjourned for Easter Holidays. Just escaped sitting over Good Friday. Back
next Thursday.

       *       *       *       *       *

       *       *       *       *       *