In free unions the trades will organize themselves and will produce the means of livelihood.
Things will not be produced for profit's sake, but for the sake of need. The profit-grabber
has grown superfluous just as his patron, the state, which at present serves by means of its
taxes and revenues, his anti-humanitarian purposes and hinders the reasonable consumption of
goods. From the governing mania the foundation will be withdrawn; for those strata in society
will be lacking which therefore had grown rich and fat by monopolizing the earth and its production.
They alone needed legislatures to make laws against the disinherited. They needed courts of
justice to condemn; they needed the police to carry out practically the terrible social injustice,
the cause of which lay in their existence and manner of living. And now the political corruptionists
are lacking who served the above-mentioned classes as helpers, and therefore had to be supported
as smaller drones.

What a pleasant surprise! We see now that the production and distribution of means of livelihood
are a much simpler matter without government than with government. And people now realize that
the governments never promoted their welfare, but rather made it impossible, since with the
help of force they only allowed the right of possession to the minority.

Life is really worth living now. It ceases to be an endless, mad drudgery, a repugnant struggle
for a mere existence.

Truth and beauty are enthroned upon the necessity of procuring the means of existence in a
co-operative organized manner. The social motives which to-day make man ambitious, hypocritical,
stealthy, are ineffective. One need not sell his individuality for a mess of pottage, as Esau
sold his primogeniture.

At last the individuality of man has struck a solid social foundation on which it can prosper.
The individual originality in man is valued; it fructifies art, literature, science, which
now, in so far as they are dependent upon the state and ownership--which is far-reaching--must
take the direction of prescribed models that are acknowledged, and must not be directed against
the continuance of the leisure classes.

Love will be free. Love's favor is a free granting, a giving and taking without speculation.
No prostitution; for the economic and social power of one person over another exists no longer,
and with the falling off of external oppression many an internal serfdom of feeling will be
done away with, which often is only the reflex of hard external compulsion. Then the longing
of large hearts may take tangible shape. Utopias are arrows aimed into the future, harbingers
of a new reality.

+A few days ago+ the red ghost of revolution showed itself in the White House. The President
saw it and threatened it with his boxing fists: "What are you looking for here, be off to Russia."
"You are comical in your excitement," answered Revolution. "You must know, I am not only Russian,
I am international, at home here as well as on the other side of the great water."

+A Proposition.+--Would it not be wiser to explain theories out of life and not life out of
theories?

VIVE LE ROI

BY FRANCES MAULE BJORKMAN

     Aye, vive le roi. The King is dead--
        So move our lives from day to day.
     The triumph of to-morrow's lord
        Meets for our former chief's decay.

     Then love and live and laugh and sing--
        The world is good and life is free--
     There's not a single care I know
        That's worth a single tear from me.

     What's love or fame or place or power?
        What's wealth when we shall come to die?
     What matters anything on earth
        So long as only I am I?

     The Joy or grief or love or shame
        That holds its little hour of sway
     Is only worth its destined time--
        What use to try to make it stay?

     Aye, let it go. The monarch dead,
        A better king our shouts may hail
     And if a worse--well, still be glad;
        He too will pass behind the vail.

     They all must pass--fame, joy and love,
        The sting of grief, the blot of shame;
     The only thing that really counts
        Is how we bear the praise or blame.

     I'll take the good the while it lasts
        And when it goes I'll learn to sing,
     All eager for the coming joy--
        "The king is dead, long live the king."

Reflections of A Rich Man

+If God were not in existence+ we would have to order one from the Professors of Theology.

The fear, instilled in the majority of the poor, with the God, Devil, Heaven and Hell idea,
is greater than their dread of a hundred thousand policemen. Had we not given God the place
of Chief Gendarme of the Universe, we would need twice as many soldiers and police as we have
to-day.

       *       *       *       *       *

+A poor devil+ who owns but one million dollars said to me the other day: "I, in your place,
would rather contribute money towards art and literature than to donate it to the Baptist Church."
What an impracticable fellow! Art and literature, among the common people, only tends to cause
mischief. They are to remain our privilege. We know the demands of good taste and we can afford
to pay for the æsthetic pleasures of life. The majority is unable to do that; besides, to teach
them the beauty of art only means to make them discontented and rebellious against our authority.

       *       *       *       *       *

+I frankly admit+ I never had a great admiration for Jesus of Nazareth. A man of disordered
circumstances arouses my disgust. Jesus was neither engaged in any kind of a business, nor
did he possess as much as a bank account, nor even a steady home. He preached to the poor.
What for? The poor should work and not philosophize. The Scriptures tell nowhere that Jesus
returned the mule, upon which he made his entry into Jerusalem, to the owner, or that he paid
him for it. I strongly suspect he did not do it. One thing is certain, I never would have taken
this dreamer of the abolition of profits as my business partner.

       *       *       *       *       *

+It was very hot+ yesterday. I walked through my park, intending to betake myself to my favorite
place for rest and reverie. Suddenly I stood still, arrested by the sight of a man lying under
a tree. In my park? And how the fellow looked! In rags and dirty! I have been told I was kind-hearted,
and I realized this myself at the moment. I walked over to the man and inquired interestedly:
"Are you ill?" He grunted in reply. The wretch must have thought, in his sleep, that I was
one of his kind. My generosity did not cease. "If you need money, do not feel shy about telling
me. How much do you need. I am the rich X Y Z, who has a fabulous fortune, as you have undoubtedly
heard." At this remark the scoundrel turned on the other side, with his back toward me, and
said, while yawning: "What I want? I want to sleep. Will you be good enough to keep the mosquitoes
away for two hours?" Within five minutes I had my servant kick this impertinent and ungrateful
wretch out of my park. If all of the low class think as this fellow, I fear our charitable
efforts in their behalf will accomplish little.

+Eleven million+, nine hundred and seventeen thousand, nine hundred and forty-six dollars and
fifty-eight cents is what the gallant Gen. Bingham asks us for protecting us from each other
for the ensuing year. With a population of four million and 4.50 members to a family, we pay
a fraction less than $3 per head, and about $13.50 for a family, a year for police protection
in this enlightened Christian (750,000 of us are Jews, but ours is a Christian city) city of
ours. I'd give that silver watch of mine away and mind my own business if I thought it would
come cheaper, but it won't do. H. H. Rogers is my brother and keeper, and he insists he needs
protection, and I must pay for it, so what can I do? I've told him I'm a peaceful, propertyless
man with no higher ambition than to love my fellow-man--and woman, and mind my own business;
but his reply has invariably been, "I'm Dr. Tarr, and my system prevails in this lunatic asylum!"
I recognize the logic of his argument all right and continue to pay for his protection and
feel grateful for the privilege of grumbling a little now and again.

COMSTOCKERY

By JOHN R. CORYELL

Be it understood that the shocking thing which we know as Comstockery, goes back into the centuries
for its origin; being, indeed, the perfect flower of that asceticism, which was engrafted on
the degraded Christianity which took its name from Christ without in the least comprehending
the spirit of his lofty conception.

The man Comstock, who has the shameful distinction of having lent his name to the idea of which
he is the willing and probably the fit exponent, may be dismissed without further consideration,
since he is, after all, only the inevitable as he is the deplorable result of that for which
he stands; seemingly without any sense of the shame and the awfulness of it.

It may be said, too, in dismissing him, that it is of no consequence whether the very unpleasant
stories current concerning him are true or not. It is altogether probable that a man who stands
for what he does and who glories in proclaiming the things he does, will also do things for
which he does not stand and which he does not proclaim. That is a characteristic of most of
us and only proves that, after all, he is not less than human.

The only point that need be made in regard to the man who is proud of representing Comstockery
is, that if he had not done so, some other lost soul would. In that sad stage of our social
growth when death was the penalty for most infractions of the law, an executioner could always
be found who took pride in his work and who seemed to be beyond the reach of the scorn, the
abhorrence and the contempt of his fellows.

Comstockery, as we know it, is apparently an organized effort to regulate the morals of the
people. If it were nothing more than this, it would be absurd and negligible, because futile;
for what we call morals are only the observances which the conditions of life impose upon a
people; and an act depends, for its moral status, upon its relation to those conditions. As,
for example, horse-stealing in a closely settled community, which has its railroads and other
means of communication, is a crime to be punished by a brief period of imprisonment; while
in the sparsely settled sections of a country, where the horse is an imperative necessity of
life, its theft becomes a hanging matter, whatever the written law for that section of the
country may be as to the punishment of the crime. And men, brought up in law-abiding communities
in the deepest respect for the law, will, under the changed conditions of life, not merely
condone the infliction of a penalty in excess of that provided by law, but will themselves
assist, virtuously satisfied with their conduct because the society of which they form a part
has decided that horse-stealing shall be so punished. On the other hand, there are numerous
laws on the statute books, still unrepealed and unenforceable because the acts treated of are
no longer held to be offences against morality. In other words, the morals of a people can
be regulated only by themselves.

What Comstockery does is bad enough, but its real awfulness lies in the fact that it seems
to fairly enough represent us in our attitude toward a certain class of ideas and things. It
is the expression of our essential immorality--using that word in its conventional sense--having
its roots deep down in pruriency, hypocrisy and ignorance. Like the blush on the cheek of the
courtesan, it deceives no one, but is none the less a truthful expression, not of the thing
it simulates, but of the character of the simulator.

Comstockery was probably brought to this country by the first Anglo-Saxon, whether pirate or
minister of the gospel, who set foot on this soil; certainly it was a finely blooming plant
on the Mayflower, and was soon blossoming here as never elsewhere in the world, giving out
such a fragrance that the peculiar odor of it has become a characteristic of this land of liberty.

When the so-called Comstock laws were passed there was a real disease to be treated: The symptoms
of the disease were obscene books and pictures which were being freely circulated among the
children of the land, boarding-schools, whether for girls or boys, being fairly flooded with
the pernicious literature. The work of confiscation, suppression and of imprisonment was done
thoroughly and conscientiously, so that in the course of a comparatively short time it was
difficult to find books or pictures of the kind in question. It is said that the effectiveness
of the work done is best shown by the one or more libraries of obscene books which the society,
or some of its officers, have collected.

The value of the work done and the efficiency of the workers were recognized in the passage
from time to time of laws giving extraordinary powers not alone to the popularly so-called
"Comstock Society," but to officers of the government. A perfect fury of purity took possession
of our legislators; they were determined to stamp out impurity. And perhaps they were establishing
reputations for themselves. It is recorded that in the days of the Inquisition men established
their orthodoxy by the loudness of their cries against heresy; that in the times of the French
Revolution, men proved their patriotism by making charges of treason against their neighbors;
that practicing polygamists have purified themselves by hounding a theoretical polygamist out
of their legislative body. Anyhow, the laws were passed, the thing was done.

And what was the thing that was done? A moral Inquisition had been established. Arguing from
a wrong premise a hideous conclusion had been reached. It was voiced only a few weeks ago by
an official of the postoffice in Chicago, when confiscating a publication. He said in substance,
if not literally: "Any discussion of sex is obscene."

There it is in a few words--a complete and perfect treatise on Comstockery! In the early days
in some parts of New England, a man might not kiss his wife on a Sunday. On common days, the
filthy act was permissible, but the Sabbath must not be so defiled. And now, any discussion
of sex is obscenity!

Pause a while and consider what this means and whither it will lead, where it has already led.
Discussion of sex is obscene; then sex, itself, must be obscene; life and all that pertains
to it must be filthy. That is, providing it be the life of Man. The sex of flowers may be discussed
frankly and freely either for the pleasure of knowledge, or in order to use knowledge for the
purpose of improving the flower. The sex of animals may be discussed; it is discussed in government
publications and in the many farm journals published throughout the country, because it is
necessary to improve the breed of our domestic animals, because these animals are valuable.
But discussion of the sex of man is obscene!

There have been some changes in public sentiment, some changes, perhaps, in the grey matter
on the judicial bench, since the early days in New York when Comstockery was most rampant:
for what was tolerated then is not tolerated now; some things that were judicially wrong then
are judicially right now. And in this change there is hope and the promise of greater change.

In those early days a confectioner on Fulton street sought to attract customers by exhibiting
in his window a painting by a great artist. If memory serves, it was "The Triumph of Charles
V." by Hans Makart. Figures of nude females were in the picture, and Comstockery established
in its censorship of art and solemnly unconscious of its appalling ignorance, but true to its
fundamental pruriency, ordered the picture removed from the window. And it was removed. Just
as Boston, finding its bronze bacchante immodest, rejected the brazen hussey. And now she stands
on her pedestal in the Metropolitan Museum in New York, giving joy to the beholder, and--not
ordered down by Comstockery. Why? And why is not the whole museum purged of its nude figures?
It is a puzzle not even to be solved by the theory of change in public sentiment; for it is
only a few months ago that the art censor in chief of Comstockery saw in the window of an art
dealer on Fifth Avenue a landscape in which figured several nude children discreetly wandering
away from the beholder. The picture was ordered out of the window forthwith. And went. A few
blocks below, on Broadway, there were then and are now exhibited in a window, numerous photographs
of nude children, not all of them discreet as to way of their going. Why? Has the art censor
decided that the photographs are innocuous, or that they are art?

But these instances and the amazing expeditions made by the censor into the realm of literature
are hardly more than ludicrous; and they can and will correct themselves. But the frightful
results of Comstockery, as applied to life and to real purity, cannot be so lightly passed
over. And let it not be forgotten that an indictment of Comstockery is an indictment of ourselves,
for the prurient, hypocritical, degrading thing can exist not one instant after we have declared
that it shall perish.

It is no exaggeration to say that Comstockery is the arch enemy of society. It seeks to make
hypocrisy respectable; it would convert impurity into a basic virtue; it labels ignorance,
innocence; it has legislated knowledge into a crime; and it seeks its perpetuation in the degradation
of an enfeebled human race. And that these are not over-statements can easily be established
to the satisfaction of any reasonable mind.

The most creditable work ever done by Comstockery was the practical suppression and elimination
of the obscene book; but when that is said, all is said. How worse than fatuous, how absolutely
fiendish that physician would be deemed who hid the signs of small-pox with paint and powder
and permitted his patient to roam at will among his fellows, unwarned even of the nature of
the fell disease that was devouring his life. Nay, worse! What if the physician should have
himself clothed with plenary powers and should compel the poor wretch to refrain from making
his case known after he had discovered its nature? But this is precisely what Comstockery does.

