LIPPINCOTT'S MAGAZINE

  OF

  POPULAR LITERATURE AND SCIENCE.

  AUGUST, 1877.

Entered according to Act of Congress, in the year 1877, by J. B. LIPPINCOTT & CO., in the Office
of the Librarian of Congress, at Washington.

VOL. XX.

DOWN THE RHINE.

CONCLUDING PAPER. It has, however, some pleasanter points: it has long been a favorite summer
residence of the empress of Germany, who not long before I was there had by her tact and toleration
reconciled sundry religious differences that threatened a political storm. Such toleration
has gone out of fashion now, and the peacemaking queen would have a harder task to perform
now that the two parties have come to an open collision. Finally, it has become a national
museum of antiquities. To the neighborhood, and also to strangers, one of its great attractions
lies in its treasury of relics, the gift of Constantine's mother, Saint Helena, for many hundred
years objects of pilgrimage, and even to the incredulous objects of curiosity and interest,
for the robe of a yellowish brown--supposed to have been once purple--which is shown as Our
Lord's seamless garment, has been pronounced by learned men to be of very high antiquity. But
what possesses the Rhine tourist to moralize? He is a restless creature in general, more occupied
in staring than in seeing--a gregarious creature too, who enjoys the evening table d'hôte,
the day-old Times and the British or American gossip as a reward for his having conscientiously
done whatever Murray or Baedeker bade him. Cook has only transformed the tourist's mental docility
into a bodily one: the guidebook had long drilled his mind before the tour-contractor thought
of drilling his body and driving willing gangs of his species all over the world.

There is a funny, not over-reverent, legend afloat in Trier to account for the queer dwarf
bottles of Mosel wine used there: it refers to a trick of Saint Peter, who is supposed to have
been travelling in these parts with the Saviour, and when sent to bring wine to the latter
drank half of it on his way back, and then, to conceal his act, cut the cup down to the level
of the wine that remained. These measures are still called Miseräbelchen, or "wretched little
remainders."

The Mosel wine-industry has much the same features as that of the Rhine, but there is a great
difference between the French wines, which are mostly red, and the German, which are mostly
white. Among the latter hundreds of spurious, horrible concoctions for the foreign market usurp
the name of Mosel wine. It is hardly necessary even to mention the pretty names by which the
real wines are known, and which may be found on any wine-card at the good, unpretending inns
that make Mosel travelling a special delight. The Saar wines are included among the Mosel,
and the difference is not very perceptible. The family were great Italian travellers, and we
had met in Rome more than twenty years before, when the writer and the boys, whom I met again--the
one as an officer of the Prussian army, and the other as a Bonn student--were children together.
At dinner one evening at this new Sayn house, as we were tasting some Russian dish of soured
milk (the mother was a Russian), we reminded each other of our ball on Twelfth Night at Rome,
when the youngest of these boys happened to become king "by the grace of the bean," and spent
some hours seated in state with gilt-paper crown and red-velvet mantle till he was too sleepy
to oversee his subjects' revels any longer; of a day when the pope was to "create" several
cardinals, and of the young "king's" unshaken belief that he would have the scarlet hat sent
him if he only waited long enough at the window to look out for the messengers, and of his
consequent watch all day, seeing the carriages pass and repass and the bustle of a festa go
on, till the sunset flushed over St. Peter's in the distance, and the disappointment became
certain at last. Of not much more manly pastimes did the Bonn student have to tell, for the
slitting of noses was then in high favor, and a bit of advice was gravely recounted as having
come from a doctor to an obstinate duellist, "not to get his nose cut off a fifth time, as
the sewing had got so shaky by repetition that he could not answer for the nose sticking on
if touched once more." The house was really beautiful, and furnished with a taste which had
something Parisian, and yet also something individual, about it. The parquet floors of inlaid
and polished wood used in Germany were here seen to their greatest perfection in some of the
rooms; but what most struck me was a Moorish chamber lighted from above--a small, octagon room,
with low divans round the walls and an ottoman in the centre, with flowers in concealed pots
cunningly introduced into the middle of the cushions, while glass doors, half screened by Oriental-looking
drapery, led into a small grotto conservatory with a fountain plashing softly among the tropical
plants. There was also a good collection of pictures in a gallery, besides the paintings scattered
through the living rooms; but the garden was perhaps as much a gem to its owner's mind as anything
in the house, as an "English" garden always is to a foreigner. There, in the late afternoon
of that day, came one of the Prussian royal family and paid the mistress of the house an informal
friendly visit, taking "five-o'clock tea" in the English fashion, and with a retinue of two
or three attendants making the tour of the close-shaven lawns, the firm gravelled walks and
the broad and frequent flights of steps that led from one terraced flower-garden to another.
These were courtly and educated descendants of terrible scourges of mankind in old days--of
Sayns who were simply robbers and highwaymen, levying bloody toll on the Coblenz merchants'
caravans, and of Brandenburgs who were famous for their ravages and raids. Times have changed
no less than buildings, and the houseful of pictures and treasures is no more unlike the robber-nest
destroyed in war by other robbers than the young Bonn student is unlike his rough-and-ready
forefathers. He gave them each a plot of land, built their houses and exempted them from all
dues and imposts, besides granting them full freedom of worship; but not for them alone was
this boon, for as other wars made other exiles, so were all and every welcome to Neuwied, and
the place even now contains Catholics, Lutherans, Calvinists, Mennonites and Quakers, all living
in peace together. The United Brethren (or Moravians) founded a colony here in 1750. The honesty
of these people is proverbial, their simplicity of life is patriarchal, and the artist at least
will not object to their manners, for the sake of the pleasing costume of their women, whose
white caps look akin to the peaceful, rural background of their life, red and blue bands on
these caps respectively distinguishing the married from the unmarried women.

Sinzig, on the left bank of the last gorge of the Rhine, besides its legend of Constantine
has a convent said to have been built by the empress Helena; and in this convent a mummied
body of a long-dead monk, canonized by popular tradition, and remarkable for the journey to
Paris which his body took and returned from unharmed in the days of Napoleon I. On the opposite
shore, not much lower down, is another of the numberless pilgrimage-chapels with which the
Rhine abounds, and the old city of Linz, with an authentic history dating from the ninth century,
telling of an independence of any but nominal authority for some time, and at last of a transfer
of the lordship of the old town from the Sayns to the archbishops of Cologne. This supremacy
had to be kept up by the "strong hand," of which the ruined fortress is now the only reminder;
but there is a more beautiful monument of old days and usages in the thirteenth-century church
of St. Martin, not badly restored, where the stained-glass windows are genuinely mediæval,
as well as the fresco on gold ground representing the "Seven Joys of Mary," painted in 1463.
Just above Remagen lies the Victoria-berg, named after the crown-princess of Prussia, the princess-royal
of England, and this is the evening resort of weary Remageners--a lovely public garden, with
skilfully-managed vistas, and a "Victoria temple," placed so as to command the five prettiest
views up and down the stream, as well as over the woodland behind the town. Let not the classic
name of "temple" deceive us, however, for this is a genuine German arbor, picturesque and comfortable,
with a conical roof of stately and rustic pillars, seats and balustrade rising from the steep
bank on which the "lookout" is perched. The winding Ahr, coming from the tufa-plateau of the
Eifel and watering a pretty valley full of old castles and churches, rolls its waters into
the Rhine in this neighborhood, and in summer no trip is so pleasant to the citizens of Bonn
and Cologne, and indeed to many tourists if they have time to breathe. But in winter the scenery
is worthy of the New World. The dark rocks and narrow slits of valleys piled with snow and
crusted with ice, the locked waterfalls and caves with portcullises of icicles let down across
their mouths, make a pendant for the splendid and little-known scenery of American mountains
in January. By one of the castles, a ruin belonging to the Steins of Nassau, poetically called
Landskröne, or the "Land's Crown," from its beautiful situation on a basalt hill, is a perfectly-preserved
chapel perched on the top of the rock, where, says the legend, the daughter of the besieged
lord of the castle once took refuge during a local war. The sacristy has an unusual shape,
and is hewn out of the rock itself; and here it was that the maiden sat in safety, the rock
closing over the cleft by which she had crept in, and a dove finding its way in every day with
a loaf to feed her, while a spring within the cave supplied her with water. Legends have grown
over every stone of this poetic land like moss and lichen and rock-fern; and at Beul, a small
bathing-place with a real geyser and a very tolerable circle of society, we come across the
universal story of a golden treasure sunk in a castle-well and guarded by a giant. The old,
world-forgotten town has its hall of justice and all the shell of its antique civic paraphernalia,
while at present it is a sleepy, contented, rural place, with country carts and country riders
by families crowding it on market-days, and making every yard of the old street a picture such
as delights the traveller from cities whose plan is conveniently but not picturesquely that
of a chess-board. The baths, like those of Schlangenbad, are in great favor with nervous women,
and like that neighborhood too, so has this its miniature Olivet and Calvary, the devout legacy
of some unknown crusader, who also founded at Ahrweiler the Franciscan monastery called Calvary
Hill. These "calvaries," in many shapes and degrees, are not uncommon in Catholic Germany;
"stations of the cross"--sometimes groups of painted figures, life-size, sometimes only small
shrines with a framed picture within--mark the distances up the hill, at the top of which is
a representation of the crucifixion; and as the agony in the garden is not included in the
"stations," there is generally at the foot of the hill an additional shrine in a natural cave
or surrounded by artificial rock-work. The prettiest part of the Ahr valley is at and about
Walporzheim, which the Düsseldorf artists have, by reason of its famous wine quite as much
as of its romantic scenery, chosen for the place of their frequent feasts, half picnic, half
masque, when their get-up rivals that of any carnival, not even excepting that of the "Krewe
of Komus" or those other displays peculiar to Belgium and Holland of which the late celebration
of the "Pacification of Ghent" was an example.

The Rhine once more! and now indeed we shall hardly leave it again, but this is the last part
in which we can enjoy the peculiar beauties that make it different from any other river in
the world. The Swiss Rhine is a mountain-torrent, the Dutch Rhine a sluggish mud puddle, but
the German Rhine is an historic river. Quite as legendary as historic, however; and perhaps
that has made its charm in the eyes of foreigners even more than its national associations,
dear to the native mind; and here, between Rolandseck, Nonnenwerth and Drachenfels, poetry
takes precedence of history, and we do not want the antiquary to come and shatter the legend
of Roland of Roncesval's fidelity to the Lady of Drachenfels, even after her vows in Nonnenwerth
convent, with his pitiless array of dates and parade of obvious impossibilities. But I pass
over the legendary details that make this region so interesting. What will better bear repetition
is some description of the scenery lying inland from the shores, the natural Quadrilateral,
containing minor mountains, such as the Siebengebirge (or the Seven Hills) and the Bonner Alps,
and encircling also the volcanic region between Honnef and Dollendorf. These hills with their
step-and-terrace formation were once fortified by Valentinian against the formidable Frankish
hordes, and German poetry early began to find scenery in them worthy of its national epic,
and so laid the scene of the Saga of Wilkina among these mountains and valleys. Here, above
the legends of Roland and Siegfried and the Christian captive, who, exposed to the dragon of
the rock, vanquished him by the cross, so that he fell backward and broke his neck, is the
solid remembrance of castles built on many of these Rhine-hills, defences and bulwarks of the
archbishops of Cologne against the emperors of Germany. But Drachenfels keeps another token
of its legend in its dark-red wine, called "dragon's blood." (Could any teetotaller have invented
a more significant name?) One has often heard of the unbelieving monk who stumbled at the passage
in Scripture which declares that a thousand years are but as one day to the Lord, and the consequent
taste of eternity which he was miraculously allowed to enjoy while he wandered off for a quarter
of an hour, as he thought, but in reality for three hundred years, following the song of a
nightingale. The abbey of Heisterbach claims this as an event recorded in its books, and its
beautiful ruins and wide naves with old trees for columns are, so says popular rumor, haunted
by another wanderer, an abbot with snow-white beard, who walks the cloisters at night counting
the graves of his brethren, and vainly seeking his own, which if he once find his penance will
be over. This part of the Rhine was the favorite home of many of the poets who have best sung
of the national river: a cluster of townlets recalls no less than five of them to our mind--Unkel,
where Freiligrath chose his home; Menzerberg, where Simrock lived; Herresberg, Pfarrins's home;
Königswinter, Wolfgang Müller's birthplace; and Oberkassel, that of Gottfried Kinkel. Rhondorf
shows us a monument of one of the last robber-lords of Drachenfels, and Honnef a smiling modern
settlement, a very Nice of the North, where the climate draws together people of means and
leisure, littérateurs, retired merchants and collectors of art-treasures, as well as health-seekers.
These little colonies, of which most of the large cities on the Rhine have a copy in miniature,
even if it be not a bathing-place, are the places in which to seek for that domestic taste
and refinement which some hasty and prejudiced critics have thought fit to deny to the Fatherland.

The scenery of the Rhine begins to lose its distinctive features as we near Bonn: plains replace
rocks, and the waters flow more sluggishly. Bonn is alive enough: its antiquities of Roman
date are forgotten in its essentially modern bustle, for the heart of its prosperity is of
very recent date, the university having been founded only in 1777, and after the troubles of
the Revolution reorganized in 1818. It has grown with a giant growth, and has reckoned among
its professors Niebuhr, Schlegel, Arndt, Dahlmann, Johann Müller, Ritschl, Kinkel, Simrock
and other less world-famous but marvellous specialists. Then there is the memory of Beethoven,
the honor of the town, which is his birthplace and has put up a monument to him, and the last
modern element that has effaced the old recollections--the numerous English colony--not to
mention the rich foreigners whom perhaps the university, perhaps the scenery, and perhaps the
heedless fashion that sets in a tide now toward this place, now toward that, have drawn to
the new Bonn. Poppelsdorf Castle, now the museum of natural history, and the fine groves and
gardens attached to it, now a public promenade, have the brisk, business-like look of a "live"
place: the building, it is true, is modern, having been built in 1715. But if we are obstinate
enough to search for signs of the days when archbishops ruled instead of dukes and kings, we
shall find old remains, the cathedral of course included, and nowhere a more curious one than
the Kreuzberg, a place of pilgrimage, where the church of 1627 has replaced an old wood-shrine:
its rich gateway was intended to represent the front of Pontius Pilate's palace at Jerusalem,
and on it are frescoes of the various scenes of the Passion. Within this thirty marble steps
lead up into a vestibule in imitation of the Scala Santa in Rome, and pilgrims went up these
stairs only on their knees. The vaults used until lately to contain a quantity of dried or
mummied bodies of Servite monks (that order once had a convent here), reminding one of the
ghastly Capuchin crypts in Rome, in Syracuse and in Malta. This neighborhood is rich in pilgrimage-shrines
and legends, and Simrock has preserved a tale of the Devil which is a little out of the common
run. He and the Wind, it is said, once went by a certain Jesuit church in company, and the
former begged the latter to wait a moment for him, as he had some business within. The Devil
never reappeared, and the Wind is still blowing perpetually round the building, waiting and
calling in vain. The old myth of Barbarossa waiting in his cave, his beard grown round and
round the stone table on which he leans his sleepy head, which in another form meets us in
the Mosel Valley, repeats itself in Wolfsberg, not far from Siegburg, near Bonn. I wonder whether
the English anglers and oarsmen, and the pretty girls ready to flirt with the students and
give away the prizes at an archery-meeting or a regatta, ever think of these musty old legends
looked up by scholars out of convent chronicles and peasants' fireside talk? The difference
between past and present is not greater or more startling than is their likeness, the groundwork
of human nature being the same for ever. Especially in these old lands, how like the life of
to-day to that of hundreds of years ago in all that makes life real and intense! The same thing
in a mould of other shape, the same thoughts in a speech a little varied, the same motives
under a dress a little less natural and crude--even the same pleasures in a great degree, for
the wine-flask played fully as great a part in old German times as it does now.

"Holy Cologne" seems at first an impersonation of the olden time, but its busy wharves, crowded
shipping and tall warehouses tell us another tale. Indeed, Cologne is more rich than holy,
and its commercial reputation is quite as old as its religious one. The country around is flat
and uninteresting, but Cologne merchants have made Brühl a little paradise in spite of this;
and their country-houses of all styles, with balconies, verandas, porches, piazzas, English
shrubbery and flower-gardens, conservatories and gay boats, lawns and statues, make even the
monotonous banks of the sluggish Rhine beautiful in spite of Nature. Then comes a reminder
of old times--the towers and fortifications, which are still standing, though now turned into
public gardens and drives that stretch out both on the river and the land side; but the former,
Am Thürmchen, forming a sort of parapeted quay, crossed by massive battlemented gateways, is
the most fashionable and commands the best views. The trees almost hide the shipping, as their
predecessors no doubt did eighteen hundred years ago and more, when the Ubier tribe of barbarians,
a commercial as well as warlike people, undertook to ferry over the whole of Cæsar's army to
the right bank of the Rhine in their own boats. The quays swarm now with hotels, and these
in summer swarm with strangers from all countries--pilgrims of Art and Nature, if no longer
of religion--and the old town becomes in their eyes less a solid, real city with a long history
than a museum opened for their special behoof. And indeed these German places seem to take
kindly to this part, for they rival each other in modern amusements and gauds set out to lure
the light-minded. Music-halls and beer-gardens, theatres and cafés, illuminated promenades
and stalls full of tempting flagons labeled "genuine eau de Cologne," are cunningly arrayed
to turn away the mind from the stately antique churches and houses of Cologne. Every one has
heard of the cathedral, many have seen it, and more have seen at least photographs of great
accuracy, and pictures of it which, if less strict in detail, give it a more lifelike look
and include some of its surroundings. The church of St. Gereon, a martyr of the Theban Legion
massacred at Cologne to a man for refusing to worship the imperial ensigns, under which no
one denied that they had fought like lions, is a massive Romanesque building older than the
cathedral, dating from the days of Constantine and Saint Helena. The church of the Holy Apostles
is a basilica with rounded apse and four octagon towers, one at each corner of the nave. St.
Peter's church, the interior terribly modernized by the Renaissance, has for an altar-piece
Rubens's picture of the Crucifixion of Saint Peter. The Gürzenich House, now used for public
balls and imperial receptions, is a magnificent fifteenth-century building, adorned with dwarf
towers at each corner, a high, carved and stone-roofed niche with statue over the round-arched
door, transom windows filled with stained glass, and carvings of shields, animal heads, colonnettes
and other devices between and above these windows. The council-house or town-hall has a beautiful
colonnade supporting arches, and a quaint nondescript creature whose abyss-like maw opens wide
and gapes horribly at the beholder each time the clock strikes. A bas-relief in the hall represents
a curious incident in the civic history of the town, the successful struggle of Burgomaster
Gryn with a lion, the show and pet of some treacherous nobles who invited Gryn to dinner, and
under pretence of showing him their very unusual acquisition, pushed him into the stone recess
and closed the gate upon him. The burgomaster thrust his hand and arm, wrapped in his thick
cloak, down the animal's throat, while he pierced him through and through with the sword in
his other hand. The struggles between Cologne and her archbishops were hot and incessant, much
as they were in other ecclesiastical sovereignties. Of these there is no longer a trace in
the present, though the might of the burghers exists still, and the city that was once called
the kernel of the Hanseatic League, and boasted of its Lorenzo de' Medici in the person of
the good and enlightened Matthias Overstolz, has now almost as proud a place among merchants
as Hamburg or Frankfort. Before we pass to more modern things let us not forget the shrine
of the Three Kings in the cathedral, which is simply a mass of gold and jewelry, in such profusion
as to remind one of nothing less than the golden screen studded with uncut gems called the
Palla d'Oro at San Marco, directly behind the high altar, and the Golden Frontal of St. Ambrose
at Milan--golden altar it might more fitly be named, as each side of the altar is a slab of
solid gold, almost hidden by its breastplate of precious stones. The same warrior-archbishop,
Conrad of Hochstaden, who, driven from Cologne, transferred his see to Bonn, was the first
founder of the cathedral, though in those days of slow and solid building to found was not
to finish. The cathedral is not finished even yet. The present scenes in which Cologne shines
are many--for instance, its lively market on the Neumarkt, and the country costumes one sees
there each week as the stalls and carts, easily drawn by dogs and donkeys, are set up in the
square; the parade of the old guard, called the "Sparks of Cologne" from their scarlet uniforms;
and the Carnival, a high opportunity for fun and display, and specially seized upon to reproduce
historic figures and incidents, such as the half-comic Gecker-Berndchen, a typical figure in
red and white, the colors of the town, with a shield in one hand and a wooden sabre in the
other, shouting the traditional warning cry, "Geck los Geck elans!" the antique procession
of burgher youths and maidens, the latter with large white caps and aprons, and the former
in three-cornered hats, black breeches and stockings and thick low shoes. Then follows a fancy
ball in the Gürzenich House, in which the lineal descendants of the burgomasters and councillors
of old come out in ancient family trappings of black cloth or velvet, stiff white ruff and
heavy gold chain from shoulder to shoulder, which their forefathers once wore in earnest. Among
the museums and other additions of modern taste is the beautiful botanical garden and large
conservatory, where flourish tropical plants in profusion--a thing we find in many even of
the secondary German towns.

The Rhine itself is becoming so uninteresting that it is hardly worth while lingering on its
banks, and as we get near thrifty Holland the river seems to give itself up wholly to business,
for between Cologne and Aachen (Aix-la-Chapelle) are miles upon miles of manufactories, workshops
and mills; warehouses connected with coal-mines; dirty barges blackening the water; iron-works
and carpet-mills; cloth and paper-mills and glass-works--a busy region, the modern translation
of the myth of gnomes making gold out of dross in the bowels of the earth.

Aachen has a double life also, like many Rhine towns: it is the old imperial coronation city,
the city of Charlemagne, with a corona of legends about it; and it is also the modern spa,
the basket of tempting figs with a concealed asp somewhere within, a centre of fashion, gossip
and gambling. How is it that people who profess to fly from the great capitals for the sake
of a "little Nature" are so unable to take Nature at her word and confess her delights to be
enough for them? They want a change, they say; yet where is the change? The table is the same,
high-priced, choice and varied; the society is the same, the gossip is the same, the amusements
are the same, the intrigues the same; the costume equally elaborate and expensive; the restless
idleness as great and as hungry for excitement: all the artificiality of life is transported
bodily into another place, and the only difference lies in the frame of the picture. Exquisites
from the capital bring their own world with them, and their humbler imitators scrape together
their hard winter's earnings and spend them in making an attempt cavalierly to equal for a
short time the tired-out "man of the world" and "woman of fashion." Some come to find matches
for sons and daughters; others to put in the thin end of the wedge that is to open a way for
them "into society;" others come to flirt; others to increase their business relations; others
to out-dress and out-drive social rivals; others to while away the time which it is unfashionable
to spend cheaply in the city; others for--shall we say higher? because--political causes: few
indeed for health, fewer still for rest. You see the same old wheel go round year after year,
with the same faces growing more and more tired and more and more hopeless.

Of Aachen's legendary, historical, romantic side who has not heard?--of the castle of Frankenburg
on the outskirts, where Charlemagne's daughter carried her lover Eginhardt through the snow,
that their love might not be betrayed by a double track of footsteps; of Charlemagne's palace,
where his school, the Palatine, presided over by English Alcuin, was held; and the baths where
a hundred men could swim at ease at one time; and Charlemagne's cathedral, of which the present
one has preserved only the octagonal apse; of his tomb, where he sat upright after death in
imperial robes and on a marble throne (the latter is still shown); of the columns brought from
Rome and Ravenna; of the marvellous and colossal corona of wax-lights which hangs by a huge
iron chain from the vaulted roof; of the bronze doors of the western gateway, now closed, but
whose legend of the Devil is commemorated by the iron figure of a she-wolf with a hole in her
breast, and that of a pineapple, supposed to represent her spirit, of which she mourns the
loss with open jaws and hanging tongue? The Devil is always cheated in these legends, and one
wonders how it was that he did not show more cleverness in making his bargains. The cathedral
still claims to possess precious relics--of the Passion, the Holy Winding-sheet, the robe of
the Blessed Virgin and the blood-stained cloth in which the body of Saint John the Baptist
was wrapped. These involve a yearly pilgrimage from the nearer places, and a great feast every
seventh year, when a holy fair is kept up for weeks round the cathedral. There is no better
living specimen of the Middle Ages than such gatherings, and no doubt then, as now, there was
some undercurrent of worldly excitement mingling with the flow of genuine devotion. Aachen's
old cornhouse, the bridge gate and the many houses full of unobtrusive beauties of carving
and metal-work lead us by hook and by crook--for the streets are very winding--out on the road
to Burtschied, the hot-water town, whose every house has a spring of its own, besides the very
gutters running mineral water, and the cooking spring in the open street boiling eggs almost
faster than they can be got out again in eatable condition. This is another of the merchant
villeggiaturas of Germany; and a good many foreigners also own pretty, fantastic new houses,
planted among others of every age from one to eight hundred years.

It is so strange to come upon a purely modern town in this neighborhood that Exefeld strikes
us as an anachronism. It is wholly a business place, created by the "dry-goods" manufactures
that have grown up there, and are worth twenty million thalers a year to the enterprising owners,
who rival French designs and have made a market for their wares in England and America. This
is a great foil to old Roman Neuss, with its massive gates, its tower attributed to Drusus--after
whom so many bridges and towers on the Rhine are named--and even to Düsseldorf, which, notwithstanding
its modern part, twice as large as its old river front, has some beautiful antique pictures
to show us, both in the costumes of its market-women, who wear red petticoats with white aprons
and flapping caps, and stand laughing and scolding in a high key by their dog-drawn carts,
and in its council-house, an early Renaissance building with square, high-roofed turrets overlooking
the market-place. In that little house, in a narrow street leading to the market, Heine was
born; in that wretched little architectural abortion, the theatre, a critical audience listened
to Immermann's works; and in the Kurzenstrasse was born Peter von Cornelius, the restorer of
German art. Schadow succeeded him at the head of the Academy, and a new school of painting
was firmly established in the old city, which had energy enough left in it to mark out another
successful path for itself in trade. The new town is handsome, monotonous, rich and populous,
but the galleries and museums somewhat make up for the lack of taste in private architecture.
One of the most beautiful of the town's possessions is the old Jacobi house and garden, rescued
from sale and disturbance by the patriotic artist-guild, who bought it and gave the garden
to the public, while the house where Goethe visited his friend Jacobi became a museum of pictures,
panelling, tapestry, native and foreign art-relics, etc., all open to the public. The gardens,
with their hidden pools and marble statues, their water-lilies and overarching trees, their
glades and lawns, have an Italian look, like some parts of the Villa Borghese near Rome, whose
groves of ilexes are famous; but these northern trees are less monumental and more feathery,
though the marble gods and goddesses seem quite as much at home among them as among the laurel
and the olive.

LADY BLANCHE MURPHY.

VERONA

It was a matter of debate in our party whether we should stop at Verona. The ayes had it, and
twenty-four hours afterward the noes indignantly denied that there had been any opposition,
so completely had the dignity and attraction of the place driven away the very recollection
of their contumacy. Yet if they had had their way when we left Milan we should have gone straight
through to Venice, as the great majority of travellers do. We could not remember that any of
our friends had ever told us to go thither or had gone themselves. At the hotel, the Due Torri,
there were but two parties besides our own--both, like ours, composed of but two members. We
had gone to this inn on Murray's emphatic recommendation. "Very comfortable, excellent in every
respect," said that red liar: we found it wretched, and the charges exceeded those at the Hôtel
Cavour in Milan, which we had just left--one of the finest houses in Europe. There is only
one other in the place, which has the forbidding name of the Tower of London; so, in view of
our discomfort and the small public, we agreed that we had come to the wrong house. On the
day when we went away, however, we fell in with some old acquaintance, fellow-country folk,
at the railway station, who had been at the Torre di Londra, and they too thought they had
gone to the wrong house. They said it was almost empty; which confirmed us in the belief that
the greater proportion of the people who fill the trains and crowd the hotels within a day's
journey in every direction pass by this incomparable city. Yet as we paced the broad marble
slabs of its pavement, looking right and left, we asked each other, "Why does not everybody
talk and write about Verona, rush to it, rave about it?"

The view from the railway, unlike that of many beautiful Italian cities, is striking enough
to make any traveller change his route, jump from the train and forego all his plans. The situation
is singularly fine. The town sits in state, backed by the outposts of the Alps, fronting the
Apennines and looking over the plains of Lombardy spread out between: the rushing Adige curves
deeply inward, forming the city's western boundary, and then, doubling on itself, flows through
the heart and south-eastward to the Adriatic. The surrounding hills are seamed and crested
with fortifications of every age, beginning with those of the Romans of the Later Empire, followed
by those of Theodoric the Goth, of Charlemagne the Frank, of the mediæval Scaligeri, lords
of Verona, of the Venetians in the sixteenth century, and of the Austrians of our own day,
when Verona was a point of the once famous Quadrilateral. Within the walls are monuments of
all these dynasties. The housewives and tradesfolk pass on their daily errands along the streets
spanned by two noble arches which date from the days of the emperor Galienus. Almost in the
centre of the town is the grand Roman amphitheatre; the petty, prosaic, middle-class life of
an Italian provincial town creeps, noisy yet sluggish, to its base; modern houses abut against
all that is left of its outer wall, which was thrown down by an earthquake in 1184; small shops
are kept in some of the lower cells. On that side it has none of the silent emphasis of its
greater contemporary, the Coliseum. We found afterward that we might have approached from another
direction across an open space, the Piazza Brà, but I think the contrast and effect would have
been less. The surprise is more overwhelming to emerge from the narrow street into the arena,
and see the seats which sustained the amusement of fifty thousand people rising tier above
tier in perfect preservation, forty-three vast ellipses, to the very top. It is only two-thirds
as large as the Coliseum, but when one has clambered to the upper-most row and looks down from
a height of sixty or seventy feet upon an area of nearly a quarter of a mile, the mind takes
no cognizance of anything but the actual immensity before the eyes. Looking outward, we beheld
a splendid panorama: first, the irregular surface of the city, broken by steep roofs, arcaded
galleries on the housetops, battlemented towers square or slim, lofty belfries, black conical
skyward cypresses; then the blue hills--blue as cobalt, although so near--striped in zigzags
with the ruddy bands of the serrate feudal fortifications, marked at intervals by curious three-
and five-sided bastions, which the architect Sanmicheli put up for the conquering Venetian
republic; farther off more peaceful slopes, on which white villas cluster and bask like pigeons
on a gable; more distant still, sublimer peaks of pale azure brushed with snow; on the other
side, the olive-dun plain irregularly mapped out by the windings of the two rivers, the Adige
and Po, yellow as gravel-walks, sprinkled thick with towns and villages like tufts of daisies,
and hedged by the purple Apennines.

It is easy enough to fix the different events and periods of the local history by the monuments
they have created or destroyed, but the influence of an Italian city is wholly against a systematic
study of chronology: the relics of various ages are thrown together, sandwiched and dovetailed,
on every side, and it is the impression, the collective impression, of the entire place which
is pleasantest to get, and worth most: the rest can be learned from books. There is a sort
of epic chain which runs through the associations of Verona, and binds them together in heroic
series by all sorts of strange, unexpected suggestions and hints. After the ancient epic, represented
by the fragments from Roman history, itself one long epic, come the vestiges of Theodoric,
one of the heroes of the Niebelungen Lied, in which he is known as Dietrich of Bern (otherwise
Verona). His palace, adopted and used for centuries as the device of the municipal seal, survived
the violent vicissitudes of the city's history, and remained, after repeated alterations and
additions which made it a sort of architectural chronicle, until the present century. This
magnificent memorial of earlier times, which had been respected in turn by the mad fury of
Gian Galeazzo of Milan and the implacable rivalry of Venice, was blown up by the French in
1801: large barracks now stand upon its site, so that the stones of its warlike builder are
not subverted to purposes unbefitting his memory. Then follows Charlemagne--putative founder,
more probably first restorer, of the cathedral--in his most mythic and heroic aspect, fresh
out of the Chanson de Roland, while Roland and Oliver keep guard on each side of the porch,
the latter bearing a mace with a ball and chain, the former his famous sword Durindal, the
stone counterpart of the weapon preserved for nearly a thousand years in the monastery of Roncesvalles.
The great heroic satire of the twelfth century, Reineke Fuchs, is suggested by figures and
groups such as are to be found in all old Gothic churches north of the Alps, but seldom south
of them--a hog, dressed as a monk, standing on his hind legs and holding a breviary, on the
portal of the cathedral, and in the church of San Zenone two cocks marching off with a fox
dangling from a pole. All the associations of the place centre in and radiate from Dante and
his unearthly poem, so much of which was written here or hereabouts. It is extraordinary how
he has appropriated the memories of the place, even down to Romeo and Juliet--who by virtue
of their immortalized loves belong as much to our times as to their own--by the single well-known
line:

    Vieni a veder Montecchi e Capelletti.

There is a colossal statue of him by a modern Veronese sculptor, not unworthy of the subject
or place, standing in the quiet Piazza dei Signori amid the deserted homes of the Della Scale,
looking toward the palace of Can Grande, whose generous hospitality could not sweeten the bread
of charity nor ease the steps of a patron's court to the proud exile. Dante could not have
been easy to live with upon any terms. "Eh, puir fellow! he looks like a verra ill-tempered
mon," quoth Carlyle once after a long contemplation of the poet's portrait. He played the part
of Mentor, and a very morose one, to the splendid, gallant, good-natured prince and his gay
court, and Can Grande seems to have derived the same sort of diversion from his diatribes as
from the quips and cranks of his jesters. At last Dante wore out his welcome, as he did everywhere
until the patient earth gave him an abiding-place at Ravenna. His whole life of disappointed
ambition, unrecognized patriotism, unspoken love, baffled hatred, lonely rangings in awful
spheres, banishment, poverty, mortification, unrest, inspiration, conscious immortality, passes
before one in this spot, which he must have crossed and recrossed innumerable times, and his
presence even in the marble makes it all his own. Yet if the statue could wake to life, the
man would not know the familiar place, which has been wholly transformed since his days. The
principal ornament of the square is the Palazzo del Consiglio, a beautiful example of cinque-cento
architecture, its exuberant decoration still subordinate to the harmony and proportion of the
general design. This has been converted into a pantheon for the celebrated men of Verona, whose
statues surmount the building, and among whom we recognize many old acquaintances--Cornelius
Nepos, Catullus, Pliny the Younger and others of later date and less renown.

The palaces of the Scaligeri, now assigned to the drowsy courts of law, have been altered so
often that an inalienable dignity of front is all that marks them for having once been princely
habitations. We must look a few steps farther for the pomp of the Scaligers, where a small
graveyard before the church of Santa Maria l'Antica contains the tombs of the dynasty. The
whole space, as well as each separate grave, is enclosed by an iron trellis of the rarest delicacy:
it is, in fact, a flexible network which shakes at a touch, but which has withstood the rough
handling of five centuries, composed of open quatrefoils and the ladder (scala), the family
bearing, and a few other fanciful patterns, constantly repeated: it is the lace of an iron
age. Within this precinct rest ten princes of the line, who from being nobles of Verona were
elected in 1261 by unanimous popular choice to succeed the atrocious Eccelin da Romano, the
tyrant of Padua, who also held Verona under his execrable rule. There is every variety of tomb,
from the plain, heavy sarcophagus of Mastino I. to the magnificent four-storied monument of
Can Signorio surmounted by his equestrian statue, a rising succession of small columns, arches,
niches, statuettes, canopies, pinnacles, embowered in leafage, bud and flower, as if the splendid
art of the fourteenth century were blossoming before one's eyes. The tomb of Can Grande is
fine, although much simpler: it has three stories. He lies on the lowest floor, in robes of
state, composed to his last sleep, while on the summit he looks down from his horse, a full-armed
warrior. Four big dogs, from whom he took his enigmatic cognomen (although the canine proclivity
did not begin with him, as his ancestor was Mastino), support the tomb, each bearing a shield
with the arms of the family.

Verona is rich in tombs. From our windows in the Due Torri we looked across to the monument
of Guglielmo del Castelbarco, a friend of the Delle Scale, whose massive sarcophagus stands
beneath a high Gothic canopy over the gateway of a building which once formed part of the convent
of Sta. Anastasia. As we gazed down into the square, with its fountain and groups of old women
drawing water, and sometimes setting down their ewers to go and say a short prayer in the beautiful
old church of Sta. Anastasia, we used to think that if this outlook were included in the charge
for our rooms, we were not paying too much. Another fine monument, by the architect Sanmicheli,
to two brothers who rejoiced in the surname of Verità encrusts the front of the church of Sta.
Eufemia; and in the cemetery of San Zenone are a tomb and sepulchral urn which claim that they
contain the mortal remains of Pepin, king of Italy, the son of Charlemagne. Besides these,
altar-tombs, pillared and canopied monuments and mortuary chapels meet the eye everywhere inside
and outside of the churches. That which attracts most attention now-a-days is decidedly the
least ornamental--the doubly-doubtful tomb of Juliet. It is so acknowledged a lion that the
street-boys of the quarter beset you with offers to show you the way. This is no new celebrity:
Murray assures us that in the last century, before readers of Shakespeare, native or foreign,
were common in Italy, a sarcophagus was regularly exhibited as this sentimental relic. That
no longer exists: the present one, which was formerly used as a washing-trough, looks so much
like that or a horse-trough of the commonest sort that, even without knowing its claims to
be apocryphal, the most credulous sentimental tourist would suspect that it had come up rather
than gone down in the world. No matter: we were not dupes, but perhaps the full sweetness and
sadness of the story never came home to us with such enfolding charm as on the gray autumn
afternoon when we stood beside the pseudo relic in the forlorn little garden of the orphan
asylum on the bank of the turbid Adige. The house which is pointed out as Juliet's is less
palatial than we expected, though it is a lofty old brick edifice with rounded windows, a stone
balcony and a large courtyard: on the keystone of the arched entrance, on the inner side of
the court, is the cap (cappello) which gives its name to the street, and is supposed to be
the heraldic badge of the family, armoiries parlantes, or punning devices, being a favorite
fashion in old times all over Europe. If the balcony which remains was Juliet's, Romeo must
have had a long ladder and a cooler head than he showed under other circumstances. There is
a stone projection at the window of a lower story which once may have supported a small balcony.
The Casa de' Cappelletti is now a livery-stable and inn, the Osteria del Cappello.

The street leads straight to the Piazza delle Erbe, the vegetable-market (literally, "grass-market"),
the forum in ancient times, the most picturesque spot in all Verona, which seems to collect
and concentrate in itself all the reminiscences and characteristics of the town. It communicates
on one side with the Piazza dei Signori; and the imposing campanile, or bell-tower, of the
latter, a shaft of brickwork nearly three hundred feet high, springing above the intervening
palace-roofs, makes a companion to the tall, slender clock-tower at the farther end of the
Piazza delle Erbe, one of the many munificent gifts of the Della Scala princes. In the centre
of the square is a fountain, originally of great antiquity; near by it the market-cross; close
to that a marble column on which once stood the lion of St. Mark, set up by the Venetians when
they seized the city, and thrown down when the republic of Venice fell in 1799. Not far from
these two pillars is a sort of stone dais beneath a stone canopy, which was the very focus
of the historic and municipal life of the place in mediæval days. Here, when Verona was a free
city, the capitano del popolo was inaugurated; proclamations were read from it; criminals heard
their sentences pronounced from it. Here people who did not pay their debts were compelled
to undergo the grotesque penalty common in the Italian republics for that offence, of sitting
for a stated time on the pavement--in puris naturalibus as to the sitting portion of the person:
flagstones are to be seen worn to a comfortable concavity by the delinquent convexity.

The buildings which enclose the square are of the utmost diversity of style and period--rich
palaces of the Late Renaissance, cumbered with ornament; modern houses of light-colored stucco,
with striped awnings and Venetian shutters; solemn old bits of architecture of sterner times;
frescoed façades, arcades, balconies. And what balconies! Not the poor railing to which we
give that name, but projecting parapets of stone, pierced into trefoils, quatrefoils, rosaces,
cusps, brackets, balustrades--sometimes running across the whole house-front, more often guarding
a single window, itself lofty, arched, mullioned and rich with tracery. It is here that, for
the traveller coming from the North, Venetian architecture begins--not Byzantine of course,
but the purest, noblest Cisalpine Gothic. It imparts a highly patrician air to the streets
with their long lines of deserted palaces, which keep their caste through every change of fortune.
Verona has not the fallen look of some old Italian capitals, nor the forsaken air of others,
but suggests the idea that once her aristocracy closed their houses and withdrew to some retreat
where they maintain their traditions, waiting for better times to return to their former homes.
Many of the vaulted carriage-ways frame a glimpse of the rushing river which washes the massive
foundations of the courtyards, the blue hills and lines of forked battlement.

In Verona one first sees Venetian painting too, on canvases which are to Titian and Tintoretto
as the colors of dawn are to those of sunrise, but the glory is in them. The radiant pencil
of Paul Veronese was early lost by his birthplace and given to Venice, in illustration of the
parable, but even without her most glorious son native art makes a fair show in the picture-gallery
and churches. The picture which struck me most was a fresco by Brusasorci in San Stefano, whither
I had been drawn by the report of its antiquity, which is said to be greater than that of any
other church in the town, going back to the seventh century. As on many other occasions, I
found that a building may be too old, the pristine venerableness having been overbuilt by subsequent
ages; but I was consoled for my disappointment by this beautiful fresco--Saint Stephen surrounded
by the Holy Innocents. In the church calendar Saint Stephen is the first martyr, and the Innocents
are commemorated two days later: in the picture the youthful deacon looks down with an air
of paternal pride and affection upon the lovely babes trooping before him with palms in their
little hands as he presents them to our Saviour, above in glory. There is a tenderness in the
expression of the martyr's face and attitude, as well as in the conception of the group, which
appeals to the simplest human feeling. The juxtaposition of the protomartyr and the children
is a perfect instance of true ecclesiastical sentiment: it was not until long afterward that
I knew it to be a fine work of art.

San Stefano is on the left bank of the river, in the smaller and less-frequented part of the
town, and it was in further exploring the same quarter that I wandered into a curious church
which had somehow the look of a cast-off garment, owing perhaps to the frequent patching it
had evidently undergone, and its appearance of being owned by nobody. It stood open, empty
of worshippers, with not even a beggar on the steps in receipt of charitable custom--alone
on a little island. It is the church of San Tomaso Cantuariense, otherwise Thomas à Becket,
whom it was odd to meet so far from home: he was revered all over Europe for a long time after
his canonization, as this church proves, since he was adopted as its patron in 1316, nearly
a hundred and fifty years after his so-called martyrdom; but to judge by its desertion he must
be pretty well forgotten now. It is hereabouts that, on emerging from a cat's-cradle of little
narrow cross streets, a very fine view of Sta. Anastasia from the rear breaks upon one, the
pentagonal apse, the chapels, transepts, nave, and towers rising one above another, a beautiful
specimen of early Italian Gothic, still strongly impressed with the Lombard spirit.

This Romanesque character is what gives the particular stamp to most of the sacred buildings
in Verona, making them a study as distinct in their way as the Norman churches at Caen. They
belong to one period and one style, although this is a transitional one: the slender pillars
of the porches resting on crouching lions, the round-headed arches, the plain, square, soaring
campanili, a majestic boldness and simplicity in general effect, an unconscious quaintness
in detail, the line of the prevailing red marble contrasting gratefully with the layers of
many-toned gray spread by time over the walls, produce a combination of form and color delightful
to the eye. The older, original edifice is seldom visible from without: what remains of it
is completely built in and over, and is generally to be found in the crypt. Notwithstanding
the stateliness and interest of the cathedral, San Zenone was the church to which our steps
returned most persistently. It is composed of three churches of very different date, the first
having been erected soon after the year 800, the second in 1138, the third three hundred years
later. The main building, which is of the twelfth century, is sunk far below the level of the
ground: one descends into it from the main portal by ten steps; and this unusual mode of entrance,
the depth, the great height, the rigid absence of ornament, the grave colors, the long unbroken
lines of the nave, give the interior a remarkable solemnity, and create an impression and emotion
as different as possible from those excited by churches of a later construction, with their
florid architecture, their opulence of sculpture and carving, their statues and ornate monuments,
their gorgeous paintings, their stained-glass windows--temples

    Where the awe of worship mingles with the throbbing of delight.

The austere grandeur of San Zenone turns the soul inward upon a range of meditations which
a Puritan need not disclaim. The nave terminates in one double flight of steps leading up to
the second, most modern church, which is raised above the first and terminates in a pointed
tribune; and another double flight which leads down to the vast vaulted crypt, with its pillars
and recesses, which is the oldest part of the structure. This place breathes of the earliest
Christian antiquity, and somehow reminds one of the Catacombs. The altars are older than the
foundations: on one of them are groups of pillars fastened together by a species of Runic knot,
such as are to be found in the rudest carving of the Hebrides; ancient sarcophagi and bassirilievi
line the walls; yet round one of the recesses of this primitive-seeming sanctuary I found a
branch of the Ampelopsis quinquefolia, our Virginia creeper, which I had fondly believed a
native of America, painted with the utmost fidelity five hundred years before America was heard
of, its five dentated leaves and jointed sprays in colors as rich as the masses we had seen
trailing over the marble banisters of the villas on Lake Como, dyeing the pellucid water with
their scarlet shadows. Throughout the church everything speaks of early times: the few frescoes
are of the twelfth or thirteenth century: the only noteworthy picture is by the serious Mantegna.
In the upper church Saint Zeno sits in his episcopal chair with a long fishing-rod in his hand,
whence the Veronese, ignorant of sacred symbolism, infer that he was fond of the sport, and
have invented an appropriate legend. He was an African by birth, became bishop of Verona A.
D. 362, and is said to have suffered martyrdom twenty years afterward under the emperor Julian:
his swarthy wooden effigy, of archaic stiffness, reminds one of the idol of some barbarous
tribe. One of the most curious bits of the past is a group among the rude sculptures of the
porch called The Chase of Theodoric: the dogs have caught the stag, and a fiend is about to
seize upon the rider. Orthodox tradition has given the name, because Theodoric, like all the
Goths, was a heretic, an Arian, but probably it points to some very early version of the story
of the Wild Huntsman, an old German legend. One sees the trace of German ideas--at any rate,
of Northern thought--everywhere in the mediæval monuments of Verona: it is the meeting of the
genius of the North and South which Ruskin finds in the architecture and sculpture, and which
imparts a peculiar and original physiognomy to the whole place. One of its most striking features
is the Castel Vecchio ("old castle") and adjacent Ponte del Castello ("castle bridge"), for
they seem but parts of one great fortification, turreted and battlemented, built by Can Grande
II. in 1355. The bridge is an extraordinary structure, the arches being extremely unequal in
size: the span of the largest is about a hundred and sixty feet. The mass, the irregularity,
the strength of these piles, the dark river hurrying below, give the spot a grimness not often
found on the sunny side of the Alps. The castle has been altered by many successive hands of
course, for the history of Verona, like that of most Italian principalities, is the old story
of the house out of which one devil was driven by seven worse ones: to Eccelino succeeded the
Delle Scale, soon to become as bad as he, and be driven forth by the Visconti of Milan, who
in their turn were expelled by the envious, despotic Venetians; and each as they came and went
added and took away something of the beauty and might of the town.

But there is a gayer side to Verona than any which we have yet recalled. It was here that we
first made acquaintance with many lively humors of Italian street-life which we had not met
with in the more northern cities. Here we first noticed the eternal cooking in the open air,
the roasting, frying, frizzling which are for ever going on, the people stopping at every few
yards to eat macaroni, chestnuts, and Goodness knows what other nameless messes, until we began
to wonder whether anything were cooked and eaten at home. Here too I saw the drollest and most
charming bit of harlequinade between a rascal boy and an old woman carrying a heavy vessel
of water. He popped out from under an archway and struck her a light tap on the shoulder with
a bit of hollow cane: she turned round, but he had flown through an open window. On she trudged,
and out he came as lightly as he had gone, and following her on tiptoe tickled the back of
her neck with his wand: round she turned again, but he was gone too quickly for my eyes this
time. She set down her ewer and stared in every direction, muttering curses: he came running
swiftly down an alley, seized the ewer, and with every respectful demonstration of relieving
her of the burden darted off with it in another direction. She hobbled after him, raining maledictions:
back he came with a pantomime of courteous surprise--What! she did not wish to be assisted?--and
set the vessel on a high ledge, whence she had much ado to lift it down. As she did so, splash!
half the water was spilled: then her tormentor went through a dumb show of sympathy and sorrow
until the crone seemed like to burst with fury. At last he broke into a fit of shrill laughter,
the first sound he had uttered, made a macaronic gesture, and capered off with the airiest
gambols and antics, like a very devil's kid. A street-urchin teasing an old woman is no new
sight, but the nimbleness, spirit, grace and gentleness of this young Pickle, the impossibility
of guessing what he would do or where he would be next, and the fine dramatic rage of the beldame,
who looked like one of Michael Angelo's Fates, kept us standing and staring at the two until
the fun was over as if we had been at a play.

In one respect we must have seen Verona under a disadvantage: there was no sunshine during
our short stay. The beautiful, lordly gardens of the Palazzo Giusti on the declivity of a hillside
on the left bank of the Adige were dank and dripping; there was no temptation to linger near
their chilly statues and gloomy cypresses; even the view from their noble terraces, formed
partly by the wall of the town, was cold and colorless under the November sky. Out-of-door
life is so large a part of the pleasure of being in Italy, fine weather adds so indescribably
there to the beauty of even the most glorious works of man, that to have seen them only under
a dull sky is like having seen a human countenance without its smile. Perhaps at another season
we should not have thought the streets so melancholy: perhaps even in our admiration we did
not pay full justice to

    L'eccelsa, graziosa, alma Verona.[A]

SARAH B. WISTER.

[A] The lofty, gracious, kindly Verona.

A LAW UNTO HERSELF.

CHAPTER III.

Captain Swendon, with the majority of his sex, was never less a hero than when at home. Brute
force, od, backbone, whatever you call the resistant power which keeps a man erect among other
men, weakens under the coddling of feminine fingers and the smoke of conjugal incense. The
aching tooth, the gnawing passion or the religious problem that strikes across his life like
a blank wall, all of which he pooh-poohs out of sight in the street, master him indoors. A
woman puts on her noblest virtues with the fireside slippers, but to a man they are a chance
for remorse, for repining, for turning God's mighty judgments on himself into a small drizzling
shower of miseries for his wife and the children. Give the same man his boots and the fresh
air, and he will go to the stake gallantly.

The captain, pacing up and down the garden-alleys that night, thinking of the blow which would
fall on his daughter in Laidley's threatened disposal of his property, was not altogether unheroic.
There was nothing mean in the big gaunt figure with its uncertain strides, or in the high-featured,
mild-eyed face: neither was there anything mean in his wrath. It was all directed against himself.
His Swedish blood had infused a gentle laziness into his temper, and he had forgiven Laidley
long ago for his lifelong swindle, as no American with English grandfathers would have done.

"It's Will's nature," he said now. "Will's a coward and desperately ill. He wants to pay his
way into heaven, and I can't blame him. But I--I'm an incompetent fool! I can't even pay my
girl's way on earth!" The captain's life, in fact, was a long ague of feverish conceit and
chills of humility. Yesterday he was an inventor who would benefit the world: to-day he was
fit for nothing but to dig clams. Going up and down the lonely walk, he summed up all the capital
he had had to make his fortune in the world's market--the education, the opportunities, the
great inventions that all fell just short of their aim. For himself, he did not want money.
His work-bench, his iron bed, a bowl of Jane's soup, a fishing-rod and a tramp into the hills
now and then with the girl,--if he had millions they could buy him nothing better. But she--Why
should she not be as other women? Why could he not work for her as other fathers--?

He raised his right arm, and the empty sleeve fell back from the stump, which burned and throbbed
impotently. There was will enough in it to conquer the whole world for her. There was that
aching love which mothers feel in his breast for her, as though his heart were physically wrenched.

But at breakfast the next morning, while quite as ready to die for her, he nagged and scolded
incessantly, and threw the blame of their ill-luck on her, his voice sounding like the clatter
of a brass kettle: "Omelette? No--no omelette for me. I am quite content to breakfast on dry
bread and coffee. It is time we practiced economy. I'll make out a system for you, Jane. A
system, and I desire you to follow it."

Jane laughed and helped him to cherries, and then devoted herself in earnest to her own breakfast.
She never argued with anybody, and had that impregnable good-humor which so often passes for
lack of feeling. Little griefs, either her own or those of other people, dwindled out of notice
in the atmosphere about her, like mosquitoes buzzing in a large sun-lighted room.

"We certainly must practice economy. God knows where to-morrow's meals may come from!"

"Jane's hens are in good laying condition, and there are the cherries on the tree," said Miss
Fleming tartly. She did not like Jane nor any other woman, but she usually fought for her sex
against men in a mannish way--for the pleasure of fighting for the weaker party.

"Hens? Yes, and but for the whim of renting this tumble-down house with its great gardens out
on the suburb, we could have had snug rooms in some business street, where I could have earned
our bread and butter."

"It was your whim, captain. Why, she has kept up the table out of the garden, and you know
it. Don't interfere with the child. She can turn a penny to the best advantage. Her ability
is of the most practical kind."

The captain did not like her tone. He glanced uneasily at Jane, who ate her cherries in calm
unconsciousness.

"I might as well stick pins in the divine cow Audhumbla!" Miss Fleming said to herself every
day. This child, as she called her, irritated her, just as a machine did, or an animal, or
any other creature whose motive-power she could by no means comprehend. She was herself a mass
of vitalized nerves, all of which centred in that secret I, Cornelia Fleming, over whose hopes,
nature and chances she brooded night and day. This other woman, who simply grew in her place,
concerning herself no more about her own mind, body or future than the larch yonder did about
its roots or leaves, and who took praise and blame as indifferently as the tree, the sun or
rain, roused in her a feeling of active dislike. She called Jane stolid to other people, but
she was by no means satisfied that she was stolid. She was often sorry that she had brought
herself measurably under the protection of Captain Swendon and his daughter by renting two
of the rooms in their house, though she had planned and manoeuvred a long time to accomplish
that end. When Miss Fleming came up to town to join the art-class at the Academy, she was exceedingly
careful not to join also the emancipated lonely sisterhood, who set social laws at defiance.
She might live alone, but it must be under the roof of conventionally correct people. She abjured
the whole tribe of literary and artistic adventurers who haunted the studios and lecture-halls.
She wrote home to her old mother that the Swendons, descended from the leaders of the first
Swedish settlers, that family of Svens from whom Penn bought the land for his village of Philadelphia,
had possessed culture and social rank, if no money, for centuries. Miss Fleming found for herself
a lodging-place under their roof, with very much the motive of the low-born blackbird burrowing
in the high, bare nest of the osprey.

She was on her way to the Academy now, and touched her hat jauntily and shook loose her flowing-sleeve
as she said good-bye with a lingering look at the captain, to which he did not reply.

The cold ague of despair was on him: he combed his grizzled beard with his fingers, stared
at the carpet and saw nobody. "Yes, I ought to have rented two small rooms up town, and found
work that would pay. I'll do it now," he grumbled.

Jane had uncovered a long table heaped with tools, glue-pots, drawing-materials, models in
wood, in paper, in clay, with others finely draughted on large sheets of Bristol board. The
captain preserved his failures as sacredly as a Chinese the dead bodies of his ancestors. She
took up one of these models and studied it thoughtfully: "Very well, father. I could go on
with the business, I suppose."

The captain burst into a laugh: "Absurd! Though," relapsing into anxiety, "this is, as you
say, really my business. But I could easily find a place as professor of Latin and Greek in
some Western college which would support us."

"Now, I don't quite understand the action of this screw, A, B," meditatively. "It interferes
with the force of the piston, in my judgment."

"Impossible!" hurrying over to the table. "I'll explain that in a moment, Jane. Why, that screw
is the finest idea in the machine. It's the meaning, in fact. It all hinges on that."

In five minutes his smoking-cap was pushed back, his spectacles on his hooked nose, and he
was lost in the depths of valves, gauges and levers.

Jane took the place of a dozen lost hands. She made the models, she draughted them, she worked
with carpenter's tools, needles, pencils, clay, by turns, and was both swift and skillful.
She had been at this daily work, indeed, since the time her father had lost his arm. Now and
then, being really nothing but a child in years, she clasped her hands over her head and yawned
when he was not looking, or, when she was sent to the fire for the glue, sat down on the floor
and began a rough-and-tumble romp with the dog, or while she was at work, sang scraps of songs
into which the captain threw a fine rolling bass.

The morning was warm: the fire had burned down low in the grate, and both windows were wide
open. The wind which entered, though raw, had a breath of spring in it. The scraggy plum trees
outside were covered with deep pink blossoms, yellow dandelions blazed up out of the grass,
and even in the muddy walks: a half-frozen bee buzzed among them feebly for a while, and then
lost his way into the room and fell with a thump on the table.

Jane dropped her tools, and put out her finger for him to crawl upon. "Now you are too early
afoot: you're greedy, you fellow," she said. "You are in too great a hurry to be rich. Haven't
you a comfortable house? And plenty of honey?" She carried him to the window and set him in
the sun on the sill. "He'll fall in some puddle and be frozen to death; and serve him right!
I hate your early birds and ants and bees, always at work."

"It is work you hate, Jenny. Now tack this strip in place, child, and then paste on the muslin.
We must finish this before night, and there is more than a day's work on it."

Jane tacked and measured diligently a while, and then dropped her elbows on the table and rested
her chin on her palms. Her face was just in front of her father's. "I was thinking--"

"Yes."

"I mean that I saw in the paper this morning that there was a school of black-fish on the coast,
the largest for years. I suppose the Lantrims will be out for them?"

"No doubt. The old captain wrote to me that he had bought Sutphen's Tuckerton skiff."

"Aha? You did not tell me that. What else did he say?"

"Oh, nothing. 'Crabs would be scarce this season; and couldn't we come down?' The larks were
beginning to rise in the marshes."

Jane nodded thoughtfully: "A Tuckerton skiff? Now, I'm surprised at that, father. I should
prefer something heavier--a yawl, say--for coming in on that beach. Well--The wind must be
dead sou'-west to-day. It would bring the spray right up into your face if you were lying on
the sand."

She was silent for some time, looking steadily out of doors.

The captain glanced uneasily once or twice at the dark blue eyes and at a ray of sunlight glistening
in the loose yellow hair. "It is sou'-west. It really does begin to feel like summer," he said,
dropping his pencil and fumbling for his tobacco.

Jane brought his pipe and lighted it for him. "I am dreadfully tired!" stretching her arm out,
pushing up the sleeve, and looking at it as if it had done a day's ploughing. "Now, I suppose
the men are all out in their boats by this time, but a person could easily rig Lantrim's little
sloop and join them; or we could camp on the marshes all day. The scent of the pines would
be heavy in this damp wind."

The captain nodded gravely and puffed in silence a while: "It's no use, Jane," taking the pipe
from his mouth. "I haven't a penny."

She sprang up, ran to a writing-desk and took out a glove-box. In it were a pair of well-darned
kid gloves and two tiny paper packages. She laid them before him: "It's all in silver: this
is for your summer hat, and that for my shoes. What do you say, father? We are in time for
the eight-o'clock train. We should have nearly the whole day on the beach."

"Hat? What do I want with a hat? But your shoes are broken."

"They can be patched," with a gasp of delight. "Here! clear away the work, father, while I
put up a basket of dinner." She stopped by the window, looking out: "Somebody is coming through
the apple trees: I smell a cigar. Now, remember, nothing must detain you. We can't break our
engagement."

The visitor came in sight from under the apple trees--a sombre, heavy man in gray, the editor
Neckart, to whom Mr. Waring had criticised the Swendons with such freedom the night before.
Mr. Neckart had known the captain years ago. When he was a boy, too poor to pay for schooling,
he used to go to the captain at night for help in his Greek or mathematics. Swendon had always
preferred the companionship of younger men than himself, and was never without a "following"
of clever, unruly schoolboys, whom he was as ready to help when they were lazy, as to tip with
silver half-dollars--when he had them. Some of them had brought young Neckart to the captain,
knowing nothing about him, except that he was miserably poor, with a desire for knowledge which
they thought insane enough. Now that Neckart was a man, living in New York, and with very different
problems to work from those of Euclid, he had but little intercourse with the slow, easy-going
captain. They met occasionally, when Neckart came to Philadelphia, at the club or at dinner
somewhere, when there would be a few minutes' hasty gossip about the old pranks of the boys--White,
who died in California, or Porter, who was now in the Senate--and then a shake of the hand
and good-bye, Neckart usually wondering to himself, as they parted, how soon that fellow Laidley
would cease to cumber the earth and the captain would have his own and wear a decent coat again
and the bits of gaudy jewelry in which he used so to delight.

The old man hurried down the garden-walk now to meet him, and wrung his hand heartily: "Bruce!
is it possible? You have not crossed my threshold since the old Epictetus days."

"No, and I interrupt you now? You are going out? I only called for a few words on business."

"Plenty of time, plenty of time! My little girl and I were going to run down to the shore to
vagabondize for a day.--Jane, this is my old friend Mr. Neckart.--We have plenty of time in
which to catch the train. Sit down, Bruce."

Mr. Neckart did not sit down, however. He found some difficulty now in putting his business
into a few concise words. He had heard Laidley's avowal the night before that he proposed to
leave the captain penniless. All his boyish regard for the old man woke in force. His boyish
feelings were apt to waken and clog Mr. Neckart's strait-lined path to success. He did not
sentimentalize about his old teacher, but he set aside half an hour in which to look in on
him and see what could be done for him. Anything could be done in half an hour by a man who
chose to work hard enough.

He expected to find the captain totally disheartened by this blow, but here he was making ready
for a day's fooling on the beach; for the captain, finding that his visitor did not promptly
broach the subject of his errand, went on with his preparations.

So it happened that they fell into a brief silence. The old man by the fire screwed his rod
as though rods were the business of life: the young girl sat by the window, a white-covered
lunch-basket on the floor beside her, sewing strings on a wide-rimmed hat which she meant to
wear. Her yellow hair was bound loosely about her head, fastened by a band of black velvet:
it made a faint shadow about the calm, delicate face. The dog sat at her feet, his head on
her knee, watching her intently. She took her stitches slowly and with care, stopping now and
then to put her hand on Bruno's muzzle and nod at him significantly about the fun they were
going to have presently. It was a quiet, pretty picture.

Now, silence or leisurely calm of any kind was rare in Mr. Neckart's daily life. He was the
controller of a great journal: he was a leading politician. He had been making his own way,
and dragging and goading slower men along, since he had left his cradle. Even his own party
found the indomitable energy of this dwarfish giant intolerable sometimes. But his own action
did not satisfy him. He had held his finger so long on the world's pulse that affairs in New
York or Washington seemed but small matters. He liked to feel that they and he were linked
by a thousand sympathies to the chances and changes of every country on the globe. A famine
in India or an insurrection in Turkey were not mere newspaper items to him, but significant
movements of the outer levers and pulleys of the great machine, part of which he was.

It is the straining horse that is always loaded, and there was no man in the party from whom
such work was exacted as from Neckart. The night before he had received a deputation of French
Communists proposing emigration: this morning he was to meet in secret caucus the leaders who
would decide on the next candidate for the Presidency. So it went on day after day. To fall
suddenly into this little room, among people to whom a day's fishing or sauntering with a dog
through salt marshes was the object of life, startled him.

For years, too, people who talked to Neckart, though in but a street greeting, invariably recognized
his power to help or harm them. If they had no favors to ask, they bore themselves deferentially,
as to a power that could grant favors. To the captain he was still the boy Bruce, a good fellow,
though dull in Greek: to the girl, intent on her holiday, he saw that he was an unwelcome guest,
who would interfere with her journey. The jar of falling to the common level was sudden, yet
oddly pleasant.

The captain, to fill up the time, began to discuss the different makes of fishing-rods. Mr.
Neckart was used to give ten minutes each to men seeking interviews: their words had to be
sharp as arrows, and driven straight home to the bull's eye of the matter to command his attention.
Yet he listened to this lazy talk. The damp wind drove the perfume of the apple-blossoms in
at the open window: the sunlight touched the glistening rings of hair on Jane's throat. How
slow-moving and calm the girl was! He was quite sure that the blood had flowed leisurely in
the veins under that pearly skin ever since she was born. None of that true American vim, sparkle,
pushing energy here which he admired in his countrywomen.

"I really don't understand the new kinds of tackle," he said to Captain Swendon: "I have not
had a rod in my hand for fifteen years."

"No. Of course not. You have other work to do. But Jane and I run down to the shore whenever
we have money--I mean whenever we can manage to leave home. She knows every fisherman's hut
from Henlopen to Barnegat. No better place to go for a breath of salt air than Sutphen's Point.
You can troll with him all day, or dig for roots in the pine woods, or sleep on the beach in
the sun."

Neckart smiled and glanced at his watch. At nine the committee would meet. Sun? Sleeping on
the beach? He was a stout, strongly-built man, with muscles like steel, but, like most Americans
who have urged their way relentlessly up, his brain before middle age gave signs of disease.
As any other creature would, when overdriven for years it revolted, and failed in its work
now and then. Night after night he lay sleepless, conscious only of a dull vacuity at the base
of the brain; and by day, when some crisis demanded his most vigilant, keenest thought, thought
suddenly blurred into momentary stupor. Any man who overworks his brain will understand how
it was with him, and why, for physical reasons, this glimpse of absolute quiet and rest should
touch his nerves as the taste of cordial would a fainting man. A sudden vision opened before
him of yellow, silent sands, and dusky stretches of solemn pines, and the monotonous dash of
the green sea all day, all night long. No doubt there were "old Sutphens" there, whole generations
of people, outside of the living world, sleeping and sunning themselves. It was like a glimpse
into some newly-discovered, silent, sunlit Hades.

Mr. Neckart put back his watch in his pocket, and looked irresolutely at the captain. The foolish,
kindly old face belonged to his boyhood--to the time when his shoes were patched and his feet
chilblained, but all the world was waiting for him to be a man to do him honor. If he could
sit for an hour with the old man on the beach, would it bring the boyish feeling back again?
He was conscious of a purposeless temptation--unreasonable as that which he had felt at the
edge of a precipice to throw himself over. Nonsense! The committee would be waiting; there
were appointments for every hour of his stay in Philadelphia; there was the leading article
on the situation which nobody but he could write, that must go to his paper by the next mail.

He took up his hat: "It is time for you to catch the train, captain. Will you take me with you?"

Captain Swendon looked at him hastily: "The very best thing you can do, Bruce! Just what I
should advise.--Jane, go on before with Bruno. Mr. Neckart and I will follow."

Mr. Neckart was annoyed. He had forgotten that the girl was to go, and had thought of the captain
as his only companion. But she walked far in front of them, through the apple trees, and down
the quiet street, engrossed with the dog. She probably would not be in his way.

CHAPTER IV.

Down on the coast the world suddenly broadened and lifted into larger spaces. In lieu of eight-feet
strips of pavement to walk on, there were the gray sweeps of sand, and great marshes stained
with patches of color in emerald and brown, rolling off into the hazy background: instead of
the brick and wooden boxes wherein we shut ourselves up with bad air in town, there were the
vast uncovered plain of the sea, shapeless ramparts of fog incessantly rising and fading, an
horizon which retreated as you searched for it into opening sunlit space, refusing to shut
you in. The very boats and ships in which these people lived were winged, ready for flight
into some yet farther region.

"Are you glad to come out of doors, Bruno? I am," said Miss Swendon to her dog as she stood
looking at the sea; and then they sauntered away together.

Her father and Mr. Neckart went down to the mouth of the Inlet, where some fishermen were patching
a boat which they had drawn up on a heap of mussel-shells. One or two crabbers, standing on
the bow of their little skiffs and poling them along the edge of the water by the handles of
their nets, had stopped to watch the job, which was being done with rusty nails and a bit of
barnacle-moulded iron from a wreck instead of a hammer. When the iron and nails broke they
all sat down and talked the matter over, with any other subject which happened to be lying
loosely about on the fallow fields of their minds. When Captain Swendon came up they shook
hands gravely with him, and made room for him on the bottom of an up-turned, worm-eaten scow.
They were all captains as well as he, and he was hail, fellow! well met! with them as with
everybody.

Mr. Neckart, who was formally introduced, nodded curtly, but did not sit down.

"A good day for the perch, Sutphen," said the captain, handing round a bundle of cigars.

"Yaas."

"But you ought to have been on the banks by daylight." Mr. Neckart's sharp, irritable voice
jarred somehow on the quiet sunshine.

"Yaas. But I lent my boat last week, and this here one's out of repair.--Give me more of them
nails, David."

"The boat could have been mended at night, and ready for use," in the tone which a teacher
might use to idle boys.--"It is singular, Captain Swendon," turning his back on the men as
on so many mud-turtles, "that the sea-air begets improvident habits in all coast-people. You
cannot account for it rationally, but it is a fact. Along the whole immediate shore-line of
Europe you find the same traits. Unreadiness, torpor of mind and body.--Ah! Captain Swendon
and I wish to hire a boat for the day," turning to the fishermen again. "Can any of you men
furnish us with one?"

Sutphen lighted his cigar leisurely: "We always manage to provide Captain Swendon with a boat
when he wants it. We kin obleege him," with a slight stress on the pronoun.

"At what rates?" sharply.

"Waal, we kin talk of rates when the day's over. The captain and us won't disagree, I reckon."

"I never do business in that way. Bring out your boat and put a price on it."

"Come, Neckart," said the captain, rising hastily, "we will walk up the beach a bit.--I'll
see you about the boat presently, Sutphen.--You don't know these fellows, Bruce," when they
had passed out of hearing and found a seat in the thin salt grass. "They are not used to being
dealt with in such a prompt, drill-major fashion."

"I deal with all men alike. Order and promptness have been necessary to me in every step of
my way. I must have them from others. I pay to a penny, and I exact to a penny. It is not the
money I want: it is discipline in the people about me. They must move as if they were drilled
if they move to further my ends."

The captain took his cigar out of his mouth and turned blankly on him: "'Further your ends?'
But, Bruce?--"

Neckart laughed: "Oh, no doubt they were created with some other object in view than to serve
my purposes. But that is the cognizance which I take of them. Really, captain, if you were
in public life, and saw with what eagerness masses of men follow feeble leaders who know the
trick of piping to them, and how willing they are to be manipulated, you would soon come to
look upon the American public simply as a machine ready for your own use when you had the skill
to work it."

The captain's cigar went out in his fingers as he sat staring with dull perplexity at Neckart.
There was a certain nobility in the carriage of the powerful figure and black shaggy head,
an occasional fire in the deep-set eyes, a humor in the fine smile, which argued a different
order of man from this scheming, selfish politician.

"I can't place you at all, Bruce. Now, I should have thought you would have been a reformer--worked
for humanity--that line, you know. You were a sensitive lad, like a girl."

"I am quite too warm-hearted a fellow to be a philanthropist," laughed Neckart. "The philanthropists
I know work for principles, liberty, education and the like: they don't care a damn for the
individual Tom and Jerry. The chances are, that your reformer is a cold-blooded tyrant at home:
he makes a god of his one idea: his god makes him nervous, ill-conditioned--the last man in
the world to choose for a friend or a husband."

"You amaze me! I should have said that they were the wisest and purest of men. Next to clergymen,
of course. I don't go to church myself, but I respect the cloth. But speaking of yourself,
Bruce, you were a most affectionate little fellow. Do you remember how you referred every new
idea to your mother? I recollect you told me once that you read your lessons in your school
classics to her to amuse her. You must have cleaned the translation sometimes to make it fit
for her ear."

"Yes."

"And I remember, too," regardless of the sudden silence which had fallen on his companion,
"how you watched my wife making a cap one day--she had nice fingers in such work, Virginie--and
how you saved your money to buy lace and ribbon for her to make your mother a cap; and how
anxiously you sat watching every stitch as it went in, and carried it off triumphantly when
it was done."

"I remember quite well. Mrs. Swendon was very kind to me in the matter."

The captain did not reply: he glanced at Neckart with sudden alarm. What was it that he had
heard of Bruce's mother? Some wretched story that came out at the time of her death: had she
committed a crime or gone mad? He could not recall it, but something in the silence of his
companion told him that he had blundered. He began to smoke violently in contrition of soul,
and remained silent, while Neckart lay still in the sand, his hands clasped behind his head,
looking at the surf.

It was not the surf he saw.

It was that little silly cap which he had held on his boy's chapped fist delighted and proud.
Twenty years ago! He had earned the money to buy it by work after the other boys in the shop
had gone home. He could see the very pattern now that was worked in the lace, and the ribbon--a
pale blue, just the color of his mother's eyes. He had carried it home in the evening, and
smoothed the gray hair over the gentle little face, and tied it on her before he would let
her go to the glass. She was just as pleased as he, and kissed him with her arms tight about
his neck and the tears in her eyes. An hour afterward he had found her tearing it into bits
with an idiotic laugh. A little later--

He shut his eyes, as if to keep out some real sight before him.

It seemed to him as if his whole boyhood had been made up of just such nights as this one which
he remembered.

It was not often that Neckart looked back at that early time. He was neither morbid nor addicted
to self-torture. He had carefully walled up this miserable background of youth from his busy,
cheerful, wide-awake life. Why should he go back to it? Something, however, in the air to-day,
in the moan of the sea through the sunlight, brought it all before him, more real than the
stretch of water and sand.

The captain smoked out his cigar and began to talk. Gaps of silence were so much wasted time
in the world; and besides, he owed a duty to Bruce. Here was a man going headlong to the devil
by the road of ambition, a sweet, high nature becoming soured and tainted, all for the lack
of honest direction from somebody of age and experience.

When Neckart roused himself enough to understand, the captain was in the full swing of his
dictatorial oration. "I don't want to intrude with my opinion. But no man should live for himself,"
he said. "Now, if my scissors had turned out as I expected, I should have been worth a million
to-day. I'd have spent a good share of it--let me see--on churches, I think. Small churches--at
corners in place of grogshops. Pure Gothic, say--"

"Stained glass and gargoyles instead of whiskey? You must bid higher for souls in back alleys
than that, captain."

"Well, schools, then--colleges, asylums, soup-houses. I tell you, Bruce, if I had your opportunities,
if I could work political machinery, I'd lift this festering mass below us up--at least to
civilization and Christianity."

"I thought you meant me," laughing. "Go on."

"Of course I can't give you detailed advice. Take me on pistons and screws, and I'm at home;
but I know only the broad outlines of political economy. My view," ponderously, "is purely
philosophic. Our politics need reform, sir. An honest man who would come to the front just
now would save the country. The masses would follow him to honesty. The Americans are a just
people by instinct. I tell you, sir, if I had your chances--Talk to Pliny Van Ness, Bruce.
There's a keen man of the world, who is as pure and lofty in his notions as an enthusiastic
woman. He has a scheme just now for bettering the condition of the children of the dangerous
classes of Pennsylvania. I wish you knew Van Ness."

"I've seen him;" adding, after a moment's hesitation, "He is as upright a man, I believe, as
you say--the very man to be inspired with your heroic rage for reform, and to carry it into
effect. I am not the same kind of material."

"Bruce, you belie yourself. I knew you as a boy--"

"Then you knew an ordinary, not bad sort of a fellow, captain, but no hero. I have had one
or two qualities which have pushed me up--a skill--craft with using words, as you have with
tools, for instance, an inflexibility of purpose, a certain tact in influencing large bodies
of men. I have never had any affection for them. I have two or three stanch friends. Other
men and women are part of the world's furniture to me. Nothing more."

"But the power which these qualities have gained for you? How do you mean to use it?"

"You press me closely," with an amused scrutiny of the captain's monitorial face. "I shall
use it, just now, to make money. That is the thing of which I have had the least in the world,
and which has yielded me most substantial pleasure. When I am a rich man I can command knowledge,
power and whatever else I covet." His eye kindled at the last words. There was a darkened background
in his thoughts, to which Neckart, with all his easy frankness, admitted no man.

The captain studied him with perplexity: then his face lightened: "I have it! You must marry!
A wife and children are the very influences you need to soften and broaden your aims. Yes,
I know I'm speaking plainly. But--have you never thought of it?"

Mr. Neckart did not reply for a few moments. "It is impossible that I should ever marry," he
said gravely. "There is an obstacle which would make it simply criminal in me. I never think
of it."

The captain colored: "I beg your pardon, Bruce: I did not know--"

"You have not intruded: you have not hurt me in the least," laying his hand for an instant
on the captain's knee. "It is not a matter about which I have any soreness of feeling. The
obstacle arose from circumstances: I am not in any sense guilty."

Captain Swendon nodded and occupied himself with rebuckling his shoes. He could neither answer
to the purpose nor rid his face of the shocked alarm visible in it. To have been told that
Neckart was dying would have startled him less, and seemed not so pitiable to him as to know
that he was shut out for life from love and marriage.

Neckart read his thoughts. "There's a difference in men," he said, concealing a smile. "It
would not suit you, captain, to go through life as an anchorite or a Catholic priest, but it
really agrees with me very well. I am not a domestic man by taste, nor susceptible to woman's
influence. I have met a few women, of course, beautiful, and with the intellect and wealth
which would make them desirable wives; and I have no doubt if I had been differently situated
I should have loved and married. But it never cost me a second thought to pass them by."

"But this obstacle--it may some day be removed?" ventured the captain.

Mr. Neckart's features settled into the hard lines again. "Not while I live," he said.

If there was one quality in himself on which the captain could build with confidence, it was
his keen insight into other men. He read Neckart's life as an open book. "Bruce is married
already," he said to himself. "He was precisely the kind of lad to be taken in by some creature
that is now a secret burden on him. Drinks or chews opium, I've no doubt, or has gone to the
devil with one jump. Tut! tut! He would not be divorced. I know what his opinion is on that
head. But she'll die: that sort of women never live long.--It will all come right, Bruce,"
he said aloud. "There's more ruling of eternal justice in all of our lives than we give God
credit for. But this matter astonishes me. I've heard of your intimacy with certain women in
Washington--leaders of society. I always thought of you as a marrying man."

"Because I cannot marry I have the more right to accept whatever entertainment or friendship
women can give me," falling into his ordinary easy tone. "I have the keenest appreciation for
an ambitious woman who has intellect and culture, and is alive with energy and coquetry. I
know such women. They seem to be full of subtle flame. Certainly, I would make a friend of
such a one. Why not? I would marry her if I could."

A moment after he looked up the beach, and seeing the captain's daughter, smiled to think what
an absolute contrast she was to this ideal live, brilliant woman. She was sitting on a log,
the dog asleep at her feet, her hands clasped about her knees, looking out to sea, and he could
swear she had sat there motionless as the stretch of gray sand about her for an hour. Such
torpidity revolted Neckart. Neither did it appease him that the nobly-cut, dim-lighted face,
the mass of yellowish hair rolling down from its black band, the coarse brown dress which hung
about her in thick folds, all gave him pleasure. In the moment he had met her first he had
felt an odd repulsion to this girl. The women with whom he had fraternized were akin to himself:
Jane, child as she was, was antagonistic. He felt for her the same kind of irritated dislike
as that which Miss Fleming gave to her, and which people of active brains are apt to give to
any creature whose animus is totally different from their own.

What did the girl sit there for, thinking her own thoughts? Young women at her time of life
blushed and fluttered and plumed themselves when a man came near who was of the right age to
love and marry. And so they ought, so they ought! Neckart was used to see women of any age
plume themselves when he was in sight. It was simple admission of his position. They knew their
own capital of beauty or wit, and showed him the best of every point, just as a pheasant turns
every golden feather to the sun when a passer-by comes near. He liked these radiant, self-asserting
women, to be sure, very much as he did the silly fowl or a Skye terrier conscious of its beauty
in every hair. But beauty was so much wasted material on this daughter of Swendon's, who did
not seem to know she had it.

Besides, Mr. Neckart had always been thrown into contact with women who had careers and aims.
Each one of them wished she had been born a man, and did what she could to snatch a man's prerogatives.
One wrote, another painted, a third sang; this one strove for political power in the lobbies
of Congress, that for money, the majority for husbands: they were wits, littérateurs, society
women. But for a young girl to jog on from year to year striving neither for knowledge nor
lovers, making her world of the whims and wants of a weak-minded old man, composedly building
up every day models which she knew would prove failures to-morrow,--here was a most inane life.

Any eye which had grown used to the flash and flutter of brilliant tropical birds in a cage
would be apt to find the little dull-breasted swallow sitting motionless by her nest a very
insipid subject of study. Probably no other man, as active and busy in the world as Neckart,
would have wasted so much thought on a chance young girl sitting on a log. But women being
forbidden fruit to him, he was morbidly curious about them all. Old Chrysostom, barred into
his cave by an impassable line, was much more inquisitive about the princess asleep outside
than if he had been a hearty young fellow free to go out and kiss and make love to her.

Miss Swendon came up presently, the dog marching alongside. "Father," she said, "you are spending
the whole day with Mr. Neckart. You have not told Sutphen the town news. I am afraid the old
man will be hurt."

"That's a fact: I'll go over directly. You will like to be alone a while, Neckart, at any rate.--Come,
Jane."

Neckart rose: "You are not going over to those rough fellows, Miss Swendon? There are no women
there."

Jane laughed. "I am a woman," with an arch little nod. "One queen-bee makes the whole hive
proper, conventionally."

"Of course. But really those men are vulgar and fishy to such a degree--Nothing but a missionary
spirit can take you to them?"

"On the contrary," gravely, "they are the best-bred men I know. Their talk is fuller of adventure
and sincerity than any book I ever read."

"Still, stay with me. I have feelings to consider as well as Sutphen."

"Very well.--I will come over presently, father. Tell the little boys to make a fire clear
enough to broil the fish for dinner." She sat down and called Bruno to her feet. There was
a grave, childish simplicity in her motions which was a new study to Neckart.

"I believe," watching her keenly, "you would rather have gone. Sutphen would have been a better
companion than I?"

"I don't know as yet. I have never tried you. I do know Ichabod."

"Or perhaps the truer courtesy would be to leave you alone with the sea? You were making a
picture of it in your mind a while ago?"

"No," knitting her brows. "I could not do that. I know people who look at the sea or mountains
or sky as so much canvas and gamboge and burnt umber and bits of effect. They are very tiresome."

"You have imagination rather than fancy, then? You hear the secret words in that everlasting
moan yonder? You know what the mountains say to you at nightfall?" Neckart vaguely remembered
the jargon of sentimental novels, the heroines of which always keep their heads on Nature's
breast. He did not mean to chaff any woman, but he would gladly have proved this one sentimental
and weak to explain his strong antipathy to her.

"No, I never thought of those things. But one grows tired in town--housekeeping, models and
all of it. My work is very light, but I do not like to work at all. And here--the beach is
silent and the sky blue and the sea rolls--rolls all day long: it is like coming home after
one has been out on the streets."

"About as keen comprehension of Nature as the tree yonder," thought Neckart contemptuously.
But, after all, the tree was warmed, and its sap ran stronger, and it grew and broadened in
the sun and air; and that was more than he could say of painter or poet.

He lay at her feet, leaning on his elbow, for an hour or more. He had meant to gauge her intellect,
experience and character in a few minutes. It was a recreation which had sometimes amused him
when with women. As soon as his curiosity was satisfied he was done with them. But the discoveries
he had made in those pretty little dwellings innocently opening their doors to wandering hearts
of marriageable men! The miserable shams inside, the traps, the dark rooms full of all uncleanness!
To-day he forgot his system of exploration. He began to feel the physical effect of coming
from close streets and striving work into this vast open space--the drowsiness which men experience
on high mountains or by the sea, and which has a subtle, lasting enchantment in it. The damp
wind bent and whitened the stretches of salt grass in the meadows behind him; brown clouds
swept from west to east overhead in endless procession; the great dun-colored plane of the
sea rose and fell steadily: for the rest, except the shrill pipe of a fishhawk perched on a
dead tree by its nest, there was silence. He spoke to Jane now and then, but for the most part
forgot her. She had fallen into the motionless quiet which seemed habitual to her. Some of
the brilliant women he knew would have dug holes in the sand, or chattered gossip, or interpreted
to him with much intellectual force the meaning of land and sky, or have taken their last love-affair
or other private little misery to give words to the complaint of the sea. This girl seemed
only a part of the shore, as much as sea or sand. The sun warmed, the air blew on her as on
them: if they gave her anything besides, she too kept their secret.

Occasionally Neckart roused himself to talk briefly to her, and noticed then a blunt directness
in her speech that would have appalled an ordinary hearer. It was her habit and choice to say
nothing, but if pushed to the wall what was there that she would not say?

The dog, lying at her feet watching him steadily, did not give up to him the secret of its
own being or its opinion of himself; but if it once did speak it would do both, and with no
white lies in the words either. "The girl is like her dog," thought Neckart.

She rose at last, and went across the sands to her father. Neckart was soon conscious of an
uneasy change in everything about him. The atmosphere of sunlit rest was broken. The clouds
only meant rain, the sand was sand, and the sea but a wet swash of water: he began to look
at his watch and think of the trains. The influence that had quieted him so unaccountably had
been in the girl, then? He shut his eyes and tried to recall the erect figure, the fall of
yellow hair, the clear Scandinavian face. He felt the same strong repulsion from her, yet in
their brief interview she had certainly affected him uncontrollably--brought him back to old
boyish ways of thinking. It was perhaps, he thought, because he was unused to such absolutely
honest women.

He sauntered up the beach, and in five minutes wondered how he had based such magniloquent
ideas on a child out for a holiday. The fishermen on this solitary beach apparently made a
holiday whenever Swendon and Jane came, and humored the latter in all her vagaries. No doubt
they would have preferred to eat properly in their own kitchens, but the cloth was spread on
the sand beside the fire. The captain, with the perspiration streaming, was broiling ham at
the end of a long stick; Sutphen cleaned the crabs; Lantrim's wife cooked the perch, and Jane
herself was making the coffee.

"Don't speak to me: I'm counting," as Mr. Neckart stopped beside her. "Five, six, seven. You
can't trifle when you make coffee," peering into the pot with the gravity of a judge on the bench.

The smell of the broiling ham in the salt air suddenly brought back to Neckart a day when he
had gone fishing with his mother in the old place in Delaware. How happy and hungry they were!

"Give me your stick, captain. You are burning up," he said, sitting down on the log beside him.

"You've been on this beach afore, sir?" said Sutphen, who was his neighbor, and felt it his
duty to play host.

"Never but once, when the Argyle went ashore."

"You were here fur the Treasury Department?"

"Yes. Did you know anything about that case?" eying him with sudden interest. "It was a muddled
account that was sent up to Washington."

"Likely. Yes, I knew. I've been in the wracking and life-saving service thirty years come June."

When Jane came to that side of the fire twenty minutes later, none of the crabs were cleaned,
and the ham and stick burned black together while Neckart held them in the fire.

"I ought not to have allowed two men to sit together: I might have known they would gossip,"
she said.

Mr. Neckart had just made up his mind that Sutphen and the two Lantrims were as shrewd, common-sensed
witnesses as he had ever examined. He was hungry too, and as they ate together he borrowed
Sutphen's clamp-knife, and told some capital stories, and handed about his cigars when they
had all finished.

"I misjudged that black-a-vised fellow," said Ichabod to Lantrim. "He's consid'able of a man."

Lantrim nodded ponderously. One story or slow monologue followed another--of shipwrecks, frequent
on that murderous coast, of rescues by wreckers, of "vyages" down the coast or to India, Africa,
with plenty of sailors' superstition in it all. Neckart lay on his back smoking, his hands
under his head. It seemed as if he were the boy he was on that day's fishing long ago. His
blood quickened and heated at these tales of adventure, just as it used to do when he pored
over La Pérouse or the History of Great Navigators. The afternoon was darkening, raw and cold;
their fire was a mere ruddy speck in the indistinct solitudes; a wall of gray mist moved down
the marshes toward them.

Jane, he noticed, was uneasy, watching her father anxiously after the dinner was over, until
Sutphen proposed to have some music and begged the captain to sing. Then she was quite happy,
sat closer to him, taking his hand, and as his cracked voice piped manfully out some ancient
drinking-song she nodded complacently and beat the time softly with his hand upon his arm.

Mr. Neckart watched her furtively through his half-shut eyes. She was wrapped in her cloak,
her head rose in clear relief against the background of fog. The men and their wives, he saw,
looked upon her as a child, a straightforward little girl, with whom they had fished or cooked
crabs for years: very different from the ladies who came down in summer, and were a fearfully
and wonderfully made species of human being. Neckart would have analyzed these women at a glance
as easily as he could impale a butterfly on a pin: why should he watch Jane as though she were
the Sphinx? The dark-blue eyes that met his now and then were the most frank and friendly in
the world, but the naked truth in them irritated him as though it had been the gleam of a drawn
sword. He sat erect, thinking that if there was anything repulsive to him in a woman, it was
physical indolence, and a strength of any sort greater than his own.

Old Sutphen presently asked him if he too wouldn't give them a song. Now, Neckart never sang
except when alone, as his voice was a very remarkable baritone, and he had no mind to make
a reputation on that sort of capital. He could not afford to be known as a troubadour. But
he sang now, a passionate love-song, of which, of course, he felt not a word: the air was full
of fervor, with an occasional gay jibing monotone. The words in themselves meant nothing: the
music meant that whatever of love or earnestness was in the world was a sham. The men nodded
over their pipes, keeping time: Jane held her father's hand quiet in her own, looking straight
before her.

"Thank you, sir. Very lively toon that," said Lantrim when it was ended.

"Kind o' murnful too," ventured his wife.

Jane, with the last note, rose and walked hastily down the beach, where the fog was heavy.
She did not return. Mr. Neckart smiled: he could only guess the result of his experiment, but
he did guess it.

"Miss Swendon did not ask me to sing again," he said to the captain.

"Well, no. The song hurt her somehow. Jane had always an unaccountable dislike to music," apologetically.
"I'm exceedingly fond of it myself: it's a passion with me. I enjoy anything from an organ
to a jewsharp. But she does not. When she was a baby it seemed to rouse her. She's a very quiet
little body, you see.--Go, Bruno: bring your mistress back."

She came in a few minutes, as they were making ready to meet the train. She hurried to her
father, caught his arm, and when they were seated in the train still held him close: "Stay
with me, father. Mr. Neckart does not need you. Don't leave me alone again: I need you."

"But, dear child, that is hardly courteous. He is our guest."

"He need not have made himself a guest. He has spoiled our whole holiday. He has spoiled the
whole dear old place for me," her eyes filling with tears. "I shall never hear the sea again
without hearing that song in it."

"It was a very good song, I assure you, Jane. I do wish you had a better ear. Why, Bruce has
a voice of remarkable compass. I fancied he struck a false note once, though."

"It was all false--false and cruel!" vehemently. "And why should he sing it there, where you
and I have always had such good times?"

"I am astonished, Jane! But you never had any perception of character. Bruce is such a thoroughly
good fellow, I fancied you would be friends."

"I never saw any one before whom I disliked so much," slowly, as if to collect her verdict
with certainty. "He seems to me like so much unmitigated brute force."

"Tut! tut!" said the captain absently, looking out to see how the early wheat was coming on.

She touched his arm presently: "Father, you said you thought we should be good friends. I never
had a man for a friend but you."

"Certainly not. Good Heavens! what are you thinking of?"

"Most girls do," gravely, her color rising. "Oh, I know all about the world. Miss Fleming told
me that when she was my age she had a dozen chums--hearty, good fellows."

The captain hastily put his arm about her: "All very well for Cornelia Fleming, child. She's
a middle-aged woman. But not for you."

"When I am middle-aged, then," looking up at him anxiously, "if I have a friend I know precisely
what he will be. Of fair complexion, placid, truth-telling--"

"Yourself duplicated," laughed the captain. "But here is Mr. Neckart."

The two men took the seat in front of her, and as night came on and the lamps burned dimly,
Jane wrapped her veil about her head and fell asleep. Mr. Neckart remembered at last the purpose
of his visit in the morning.

"Surely something can be done to compel Laidley to leave the property to its rightful owners.
Have you stated the case to him plainly?" he asked.

"I? State it? Now, Bruce, how could I? If I were not the one to be benefited by it, I'd put
it to him forcibly enough. But as it is--No, I've not the moral courage for that."

"But for your daughter's sake--"

"I know. I've thought it all over. But Jane and I can keep on in the old way a little longer.
Scanty and happy-go-lucky, but, on the whole, comfortable." He was silent a while, and then
in a cautious whisper said, "I'll explain to you, Bruce. I might have made Jane's life easier
if I had worked. I know that. I know our friends look on me as a lazy, selfish dog, a dead
weight on the child. But--you are the first person to whom I have ever told this--I have had
for many years a disorder, an ailment, which must in any case make my life a short one. Confinement
and continued exertion would bring on a crisis at once. My physician told me that five years
ago. Now you know why I have indulged myself. I still hoped some of the infernal patents--"
He choked, and turned to look out of the window.

"But your danger is another reason why you should not be kept out of your property."

"Of course. But it's my luck."

"Does your daughter know this story?"

"No. Don't tell her, for God's sake!"

Nothing more was said until the train rolled into the station.

"Come, Jane, child," the captain called briskly. She rose and took his arm.

Mr. Neckart took leave of them under the flaring lamps outside. "You have left all the life
and color of your face down in the salt air, Miss Swendon," he said. "You will not mark this
holiday with a white stone, I fear."

"No," she said, waiting until he was gone before she spoke again.--"We shall go to Cousin Will's
now, father. I wish to say good-night to him."

"Very well, my dear. I'll leave you to read to him while I run round to see if any letters
have come. I feel confident somebody will answer my advertisement about the scissors."

CHAPTER V.

A luxurious apartment, of which the most salient features were excess of heat and color. A
glowing fire burned in the grate. Persian rugs, richly-tinted curtains, tiger and leopard skins,
light and gilding on every side, threw into more miserable contrast Laidley's pinched, pallid
face as he stood in the midst. His back was to the fire, his claw-like hands behind him, opening
and shutting mechanically as if to grasp the heat, his pale eyes blinking through his eye-glasses
on Jane standing before him.

"Do I understand what you say?" in a tone of blank amazement. "That you, a child, come here
to a dying man to assert your claim to his property! It is incredible that you came of your
own free will. Who sent you?"

"Nobody, Cousin Will. It seemed to me the thing I ought to do. I do wish you would sit down,"
anxiously. "You are not able to stand."

He sank into a chair: "Bring me some wine."

She brought the wine, tucked the leopard skins about him, wiped his forehead tenderly, placed
a cushion beneath his feet. He shivered, closed his eyes for a moment, then fixed them on her:
"Now go on."

She did go on without the slightest hesitation, without even a flush of color, quick as her
blood was to come and go when she was moved. The thing she had to do evidently seemed to her
exceedingly simple and easy: "I knew you did not see the matter just as it is, or there would
be no difficulty about it. No one else seemed willing to speak to you, and so I came myself."

He put out his hand toward the wine: she set it within his reach, and resumed her place, one
arm resting on the mantel-shelf, looking down at him. There was only that sorrowful pity in
her face with which any large-hearted, healthy woman would look at a diseased, dying man.

"I don't deny," he said, coughing feebly, "that at first sight you have a crude, illegal claim
on my property--"

"My father--not I," throwing out her hand hastily.

"But even your claim admits of argument--argument," staring into the fire. "Yet what if I should
meet Virginie Morôt yonder, and she should tax me with having wronged her child?" looking about
him with a sudden turn.

A tricky girl could have gained her point now on the instant. But Jane, dull and straightforward
as usual, knelt quickly down and took his fingers in her own cool, strong hands, as if she
were dealing with a nervous child.

"Put my mother out of the question. She is not going to blame you for doing what seems to you
just. I want you to see that it is not just. It is of the living, not the dead, you ought to
think."

"Give me that medicine, can't you? My blood is like fire. Oh, you stand there," after he had
swallowed it, "with your dogged, calm way of putting the question, as if it were a matter of
a new gown. Hush!" as she began to speak. "You are but a child. You're not even a clever child.
How can you understand the relations of a dying man to his Maker? It has been shown to me how
with this money I could make peace with--with Him. The way has been opened for me to give it
to the poor and the churches. Why, the rich man was commanded to 'sell all that he had and
give to the poor, and he should have treasure in heaven.' The place is marked in the Bible
there." His hands worked feebly together, and he looked from side to side, avoiding the face
in front with its steady dark eyes. "Why should I take from the poor to give to your father?"

"Because it is not yours to take or give."

He waited for her to go on, but she said no more. "I haven't forgotten you, Jane. I've planned
for you as your father never would have done. There's good-fortune waiting for you which any
woman would envy you. Go now--go!"

"I did not come to you with any claim of my own," the indignant lips trembling. "You shall
not think so meanly of me as that. I told you why my father needs the money--all that he told
to Mr. Neckart. Surely, you don't understand?"

"Oh, I understand your father very well," smiling dryly. It suited him just now to consider
the captain a shrewd humbug, and his mysterious ailment the last dodge to raise money and sympathy.

The man at that moment looked so ill, so small and spiteful, that Jane's heart gave a sudden
wrench of pity. It was a cruel, brutal thing, she felt, in her to stop him on the edge of the
grave and demand his money. She put her hand to his forehead: it was cold and clammy. "Don't
wrong my father in this way," she said in a lower voice than before. "You have had our money
all the time, and our life has been hard--hard. I never said that before, but it is true."

He looked at her now, his courage flickering up to meet the crisis: "I hear you. Go on!"

"My father's life depends upon your honesty. I only ask you to remember that."

"You use plain words. So shall I." He thrust his hand into a drawer of the table before him,
drew out a folded paper and pushed it toward her: "There is your answer. That is my will. My
property is left in the way it will do God service. You can read it if you choose."

"And my father--?"

"I have not left him a dollar."

She turned on him, silent, a moment: he cowered and evaded her eyes.

"You shall not wrong him. He shall not die for the want of the money if I can help it," in
the same quiet voice. She took up the paper, passed him and laid it on the fire, then watched
it shrivel and burn to ashes. He could not have detained her, any more than he could stay the
scorching flame with his hand.

She threw her cloak about her without a word, and drew the hood over her head.

He pulled the bell violently: "You have only given me the trouble of preparing a second copy.
It shall be identical with the first."

Old Dave, coming in, observed that Miss Swendon's very lips were without color. But as she
went out of the room she halted to move a screen, so as to protect Laidley from the draught.

She met her father on the stairs. "Do not go up," she said. "David is with him, and I want
you to take me home." ...

Before daylight the next morning Captain Swendon was summoned by David to his master. A keen
north-east wind had caused a sudden change in the weather, and Mr. Laidley had sunk rapidly,
and was now scarcely conscious.

"It is only what I anticipated," said the physician, meeting the captain at the door. "Though
if he had remained in the South he might have lingered until midsummer. Not longer."

The captain nursed the dying man anxiously all day, and when he was dead came home excited
and haggard. It seemed to him by that time that one of the most lovable fellows in the world
had gone out of it. He always was of that opinion at a funeral.

"Well, it's all over, Jane!" he cried, coming just at dusk into the room, where she stood at
the window, her back turned toward him. "Yes. Poor Will! He was a good fellow years ago--witty,
hospitable. You didn't know him in his prime. Your mother liked him. That is, well--" He sat
down by the fire, staring at it with his owlish eyes, pulling off his old boots and soaked
coat, for it was raining hard, and wondering a little that Jane had not a warm change of clothes
ready for him as usual. But she did not move. "Yes," with a groan. "He knows the great secret
now, poor fellow! I wish I'd been kinder to him. There's lots of things I might have done.
But that damned money! I suppose it soured me."

Jane turned. "I am glad I did what was right to him," she said slowly.

The captain looked at her surprised. The shock had been too heavy on the child, he thought:
her eyes were quite sunken in her white face. "Yes, yes. You were always a very nice, attentive
little nurse. But when anybody dies one is apt to remember one's shortcomings to them, and
wish for even an hour to set all right."

"I have done nothing to him which I would wish to set right," she said again, her lips moving
with difficulty.

Her father did not answer. But she was so unused to speak of herself in any way that he observed
her persistence now as peculiar.

REBECCA HARDING DAVIS.

[TO BE CONTINUED.]

IRISH SOCIETY IN THE LAST CENTURY.

Nations as well as individuals have the defects of their qualities, and the Irish race has
its faults as well as its virtues; but it will be conceded on all sides that the humdrum is
not one of its attributes. During the eighteenth century the social state of Ireland was peculiarly
anomalous. The penal laws were in full force for the most of that time. The great families,
Irish or Norman--the latter having long before become Hibernis ipsis Hiberniores--had either
conformed to the ruling faith or had betaken themselves to more friendly shores, or, having
lost their estates by confiscation or treachery, had become confounded with the oppressed and
suffering multitude. The Irish nation was practically divided into a "Protestant garrison"
and a pariah caste. It would have been strange, therefore, if the faults incident to their
position had not been developed in each of these classes. And yet when the beautiful and accomplished
Mrs. Pendarves visited the island in 1731 she found social life in the capital worthy of commendation.
The generality of the people, she said, were much the same as in England--a mixture of good
and bad. All she met behaved themselves very decently according to their rank. Cornwall, it
must be remembered, is largely Celtic. She writes, again, that she has too much gratitude to
find fault where she was treated kindly, even if there were room for it, but declares that
she was never in a place that more deservedly claimed her good word than Ireland.

It was to the famous earl of Strafford that the viceregal court first owed its brilliancy.
When he came to Dublin as lord deputy he found the Castle falling to ruins. He had it restored,
and lived there in the manner described by a traveled eye-witness, who says that a most splendid
court was kept there, and that he had seen nothing like it in Christendom except that of the
viceroy of Naples. In one point of grandeur the lord deputy went beyond the Neapolitan, for
he could confer honors and dub knights, which that viceroy could not do, or indeed any other
he knew of. This splendor was interrupted by the civil wars, but burst forth anew under the
viceroyalty of the great duke of Ormond. Matters seem then to have been somewhat irregularly
managed. It was a time of great politico-religions excitement, and "Papists" were forbidden
to have residences in Dublin. Nevertheless, complaints were made that several Catholic nobles
and gentlemen, among whom were Colonel Talbot and the earl of Clancarty, not only took houses,
but were received at the Castle, where they joined the duke and the earl of Arran at play,
which was often continued till three o'clock in the morning. It was said that they then passed
through the gates with their coaches, and drew upon the guard if they attempted to stop them.
This good-fellowship did not serve to cement a very close friendship between the parties, for
Colonel Talbot was afterward thrown into the Tower on the charge of attempting the duke's life.
He was soon freed from captivity and loaded with favors by James II., who made him duke of
Tyrconnel and lord lieutenant of Ireland.

When Mrs. Pendarves (née Mary Granville) paid her first visit to Ireland, all was at least
outwardly quiet. The Revolution was long past, and the House of Hanover was firmly seated on
the throne. The utmost magnificence was displayed by the court at Dublin, and the lady's letters
are filled with descriptions of every kind of gayety. The witty dean of St. Patrick's, though
nearing the melancholy close of his career, was still exciting by turns the wonder, the amusement
and the gratitude of the Irish public. In spite of much that would now be deemed very inconsistent
with his calling, Swift had a firm practical belief in the truths he was bound to teach, and
was scrupulously careful in the discharge of his public duties. Mrs. Pendarves, who some years
later became the wife of Swift's friend, Dr. Delany, a celebrated preacher and afterward dean
of Down, was much attracted by the many virtues hidden under the apparent misanthropy of this
wonderful man, and kept up a correspondence with him until his intellect failed. Her relative,
Lord Carteret, had been the dean's great friend long before he was sent to Ireland as viceroy.
A postscript which he added to one of his letters written in 1737 shows what he thought of
Swift as a patriot. Nevertheless, Swift was too uncompromising to be trusted with power, even
by Carteret. He wished very much to be made a trustee of the linen manufactory or a justice
of the peace, and complained that he was refused because it was well known he would not job
or suffer abuses to pass, though he might be of service to the public in both capacities; "but
if he were a worthless member of Parliament or a bishop who would vote for the court and betray
his country," then his request would be readily granted. Lord Carteret replied: "What you say
is literally true, and therefore you must excuse me." When he asked the archbishop of Cashel
and other trustees of the linen manufacture why they would not elect him, the archbishop answered
that "he was too sharp a razor, and would cut them all."

Lord Carteret was a true courtier, and managed to keep fairly with both parties. He had much
wit and readiness, and parried the attacks of Swift with such dexterity that on one occasion,
the latter exclaimed, "What, in God's name! do you do here? Get back to your own country, and
send us our boobies again." When we recollect that in London Swift enjoyed the society of the
first literary characters of the day, we need not wonder that he looked on a residence in Ireland
as a sort of banishment, and yet he did not fail to use every opportunity of doing good in
private and in public. He gave half his annual income to decayed families, and kept five hundred
pounds in hand for the sole service of the industrious poor, which he lent out in five pounds
at a time, and took payment back by installments of two shillings--of course without interest.
He was thus the means of helping them to help themselves, a species of charity which was not
then so well understood as it is now in process of becoming. His indignation at the oppressive
conduct of the English government in destroying Irish trade and manufactures vented itself
in many ways. "Do not the corruptions and villainies of men eat your flesh and exhaust your
spirits?" said he to his friend Dr. Delany; and in another burst of the same sæva indignatio
he exclaimed, on hearing some one spoken of as a "fine old gentleman," "What! have you yet
to learn that there is no such thing as a fine old gentleman? If the man you speak of had either
a mind or a body worth a farthing, they would have worn him out long ago."

An incidental notice of the state of Irish trade at that date is afforded in a letter of Mrs.
Delany's to a friend in England: "They make mighty good gloves here, but I shall not be able
to send you any: they are prohibited." Mrs. Delany was herself much interested for the people,
and brought Irish poplins into fashion at the viceregal court. She lost no opportunity of expressing
her liking for the tone of Irish society. When herself residing in England she writes to her
sister, Ann Granville, afterward Mrs. Dewes, expressing a wish that they could both be conveniently
transported to Ireland for one year, that no place would suit her sister's taste so well, and
that "the good-humor and conversableness of the people would please her extremely." This lady's
descriptions of life in the country parts of Ireland are perhaps more interesting than even
her experiences in the capital. At one time she describes her entertainment after a picnic
in a thatched house which she calls a "cabin," and remarks that the people did not seem solicitous
of having good dwellings or more furniture than was absolutely necessary--hardly so much--but
they made it up in eating and drinking; adding that no people could be more hospitable or obliging,
and that there was not only great abundance, but "great order and neatness." There is, unfortunately,
a reverse to the medal. She remarks that they cut down all their trees instead of preserving
them; that the poverty of the people as she passed through the country "made her heart ache,"
as she never saw a greater appearance of misery; and that they lived in great extremes, either
profusely or wretchedly. The same testimony is borne by all who knew the state of Ireland at
that time.

A family with which Mrs. Delany had much friendly intercourse was that of the Wesleys, who
then and long after lived at Dangan Castle in the county of Meath, within two miles of Laracor,
Dean Swift's first Irish living. This residence is generally supposed to have been the birthplace
of the duke of Wellington, though No. 24 Upper Merrion street, Dublin, disputes that honor.
Mrs. Delany describes Dangan Castle as being a large, handsome and convenient house. Mr. Richard
Colley Wesley, who was then the proprietor, planted and laid out the grounds with much taste.
They lived magnificently, and at the same time without ceremony. There was "a charming large
hall" with an organ and harpsichord, where all the company met when they had a mind to be together,
and where "music, dancing, draughts, shuttlecock and prayers took their turn." The house is
now in ruins, having been sold to Roger O'Connor, and burnt accidentally afterward. Mrs. Delany
speaks of her friend, Richard Colley Wesley, the ancestor of the duke, as having more virtues
and fewer faults than any man she knew. She adds a curious circumstance in connection with
the ruins of a castle in the town of Dangan. It belonged to King John, and his butler, gentleman-usher
and standard-bearer were the ancestors of the duke of Ormond (Butler), Mr. Usher (high sheriff
of Dublin that year, 1733), and Mr. Wesley. The first connection of these families with Ireland
is sometimes stated to have been in the time of Henry II., the surname of Butler arising from
the circumstance that Henry conferred the chief butlership of Ireland on Theobald Fitzwater
in 1177. It is also said that Wesley was the original form of the duke of Wellington's family
name. On the other hand, De Quincey says that Wellesley was shortened to Wesley by the same
process which leads people to pronounce Marjoribanks "Marshbanks," and St. Leger "Silliger."
It was probably resumed to distinguish a particular branch of the family. However this may
be, it is to be regretted that the "iron duke," who was Irish both by birth and long descent,
should have habitually affected Anglicanism. When in a celebrated speech he frequently used
the words "As an Englishman," he provoked the remark of an Irish wit: "The duke reminds me
of a countryman of mine who was accosted by President Jefferson in the United States: 'Well,
Paddy, and why have you come to America?'--'Begor, yer honor, I jist come over to be a native.'"

The viceregal court has never been without its traditions of beauty, wit and fashion. The two
Gunnings, whose fame has come down to our day in the letters of Walpole, made their début at
the Castle when the earl of Harrington was lord lieutenant. They were the daughters of an Irish
gentleman of old family who had married the Hon. Bridget Bourke, a daughter of Lord Mayo. Their
father seems to have been improvident, for they were said to be so poor that they thought of
being actresses, and when they were presented they had to borrow clothes from Mrs. Woffington.
Walpole speaks of them as two young Irish girls of no fortune who were declared the handsomest
women alive, and says that they could not walk in the Park or go to Vauxhall but such crowds
followed them that they were generally obliged to go away. Some years after he writes to Miss
Berry: "The two beautiful sisters (Gunning) were going on the stage when they were at once
exalted almost as high as they could be--were countessed and double-duchessed." This last expression
was in allusion to the marriage of one of the sisters first to the duke of Hamilton, and afterward
to the duke of Argyll. She thus united two rival families and became the ancestress of the
present duke.

A still more remarkable belle in many respects was Miss Eleanor Ambrose. This lady, who was
exquisitely beautiful and of very fascinating manners, was the brightest star in the viceregal
court of the celebrated earl of Chesterfield. She was the daughter of a Catholic gentleman
of good family and connected with the leading Catholic aristocracy. The professions were at
that time closed against members of the old faith, and, in spite of the prejudice which then
existed against trade, some of the younger sons of good Catholic families betook themselves
to commerce. Hence the father of Miss Ambrose gained wealth as a brewer in Dublin, and left
a considerable sum between his two daughters. The earl of Chesterfield, being warned before
he came to Ireland that he would have much trouble from the Catholic party, wrote back soon
after his arrival that the only "dangerous Papist" he met was Miss Ambrose, a title by which
she was known ever after. Many graceful compliments paid to her by the courtly earl testify
to his admiration of her beauty and accomplishments. On seeing her wear an orange lily on the
anniversary of the Battle of the Boyne he addressed her in the following impromptu:

    Say, lovely traitress, where's the jest
    Of wearing orange on thy breast,
    When underneath that bosom shows
    The whiteness of the rebel rose?

On another occasion, Miss Ambrose being present when the freedom of the corporation of Drogheda
was presented to the viceroy in a gold box of exquisite workmanship, she laughingly asked him
to give it to her. "Madame," said Chesterfield, "you have too much of my freedom already."
The lady eventually married a county Mayo gentleman of large fortune named Palmer, and lived
to the age of ninety-eight, forming a connecting link between two very distant periods. In
her extreme old age Sheil paid her a visit, the admiration which Lord Chesterfield was known
to entertain for her having induced him to seek an introduction to her. Although rich, he found
her occupying a small lodging in Henry street, where she lived secluded and alone. "Over the
chimney-piece of the front drawing-room was suspended the picture of her Platonic idolater.
It was a half-length portrait, and had been given her by the man of whose adoration she was
so virtuously vain." While Sheil was striving to image to himself the fascinations of the "dangerous
Papist," the door was opened: a volume of smoke had previously filled the room, and the rush
of air causing it to spread in huge wreaths around her, "a weird and withered form stood in
the midst of the dispersing vapor." Lady Palmer was a most vehement Catholic. Lord Chesterfield
and the Catholic question were the only subjects in which she seemed to take any interest.
On the wrongs of her country she expatiated with both energy and eloquence, but when her visitor
remarked that he was not surprised at Lord Chesterfield's having called her "a dangerous Papist,"
the patriot relapsed into the woman, and she looked up at the picture with a melancholy smile.

The subject of society in Ireland during the eighteenth century would be singularly incomplete
without some notice of the disabilities under which so large a portion of the nation lay. The
penal laws were designed to transfer all the property of the country to the hands of Protestants,
and they were effectual to a great extent, but in many instances they were evaded by the friendship
and good feeling of Protestants themselves. Intermarriages often took place, and individuals
of the favored party in several cases held property secretly in trust for the real owners.
By this and other devices a portion of their estates was saved for Catholic families. It may
not be amiss to relate two or three illustrations of the working of these laws, and also of
the way in which they were evaded.

In the year 1776, Mr. Thomas Stephen Coppinger lived on his family estate of Carhue in the
county of Cork. His ancestors had eschewed politics, and had retained their property and their
religion for a century and a half without molestation. Now, however, his first cousin, Thomas
John Coppinger, laid claim to half the estate on the plea that it should have been "gaveled,"
or divided between the sons, when his grandfather died without leaving a Protestant heir, such
being the law at the time. In order to force his cousin to consent, Thomas John became a Protestant
and threatened to file a bill of discovery; which meant that he would give formal notice that
his cousin was "discovered" to be a Catholic. By going through this form he could claim the
whole estate. Thomas Stephen was advised to go through the ceremony of conforming, but refused
on principle. The case was tried, but in the existing state of the law there was no redress,
and half the estate, with the family residence, was given up to Thomas John. It tells well
for the family affection and forgiving disposition of the Irish that far from this transaction
originating a feud between the Protestant and Catholic branches of the Coppingers, they were
always on the best terms. The year after this occurrence the law was altered and some of the
severest restrictions on the Catholics removed.

A few years before this change in the law a Mr. Duggan resided at the "Park," near Killarney,
a property which is still held by his descendants, who have adopted the name of Cronin. A Protestant
gentleman having taken some dislike to Mr. Duggan, and being besides a furious bigot, resolved
to file a bill against him. Before he had time to execute his design a relative named McCarthy,
who had been living in Paris, came to see him. This relative told him that he was very badly
off and about to leave for America. "Never mind," said Mr. ----: "I'm going to file a bill
against Duggan. The fellow is a Papist. I will get his property, and you shall have a share."
It is probable that Mr. ---- might have tried to quiet his conscience by this intended application
of the money, and to persuade himself that he was not acting through love of gain. In a day
or two after the above conversation McCarthy was staying with Mr. Deane Freeman of Castle Cor
in the county of Cork. This gentleman being a Protestant and a Tory, his guest told him of
the plan against Duggan. But Mr. Freeman was quite a different person from the others, and
was besides a friend of Mr. Duggan's. He went immediately to Mr. ---- 's house, and learned
from his own lips that he was about to commit this wrong. Mr. Freeman then said that he also
had business at Dublin, and proposed that they should go together. Traveling was at that time
both slow and dangerous, and Mr. ---- was glad of the addition to his party. They stopped the
first night at the house of a friend, who on a hint from Freeman managed to induce the intended
filer of the bill to partake so largely of his hospitality that he was carried to bed the next
morning in a state of insensibility. His companion being thus put hors de combat, Mr. Freeman
hastened to Dublin and filed a bill in his own name. While this was on the file no other bill
could be proceeded with, but for further security he got Mr. Duggan to make a fictitious sale
of the property to him, and thus saved it for better times.

The MacMahon estates in the county of Clare were saved in the following way: Suspecting a "discoverer,"
a Miss MacMahon--who must have been own cousin to Lever's Miss Betty O'Shea--resolved to become
a Protestant. She first, however, consulted a friar, and was told by him that if she did so
she would peril her soul. "Here goes, then!" cried the doughty damsel: "better that the soul
of an old maid should go the wrong way than that the property of the MacMahons should go to
the Protestants." She conformed and saved the property. More than one estate was preserved
to the Catholic owner by the singular proceeding of his filing a bill against himself under
an assumed name.

A tragic occurrence, arising out of the working of these laws, is commemorated by a tombstone
in Kilcrea Abbey near Cork. Arthur O'Leary, a member of the old Catholic family of that name,
had served for a few years in the Hungarian army, as the laws against the Catholics did not
permit them to hold commissions in the British service. On his return to Ireland he married
a daughter of the O'Connell who lived then at Derrynane, an aunt of the "Liberator." He settled
at a place called Raleigh, situated on the river Lee, and became a country gentleman, holding
considerable personal property. From his descent and creed he was looked on as a chieftain
by the peasantry, which made him unpopular among his neighbors of English blood. One of them,
a Mr. Morris, took great pride in a fine stud of horses. Having lost a race to O'Leary on which
a heavy wager depended, he was greatly mortified. Some one, perceiving his vexation, unfortunately
reminded him that the "Papist" could not legally keep a horse exceeding five pounds in value.
He tendered this sum to O'Leary, who indignantly refused to give up his favorite animal. On
his resisting the warrant which was then made out for his arrest, he was outlawed. A party
of soldiers was sent after him, and he was shot in the encounter that followed. This took place
in the year 1773, when O'Leary was only twenty-six years old. The tragedy did not end here.
A brother of O'Leary's was seized with an insane desire of vengeance, and made several attempts
on Mr. Morris's life, till the latter, in a state of chronic terror, left his country residence
and came into Cork to live. Here O'Leary watched day after day, and at length succeeded in
wounding him fatally. He then escaped to America, where he died some years after. An ancestor
of the writer afterward resided at Hanover Hall, the place which Mr. Morris had been thus forced
to leave, and a member of the family used to relate how she was shown when a child the marks
of O'Leary's bullets in the doors and wainscoting. It would seem as if a desire to brave the
laws of the "Saxon" was inherent in this family. A noted professor of the name in Cork appeared
a few years ago at a fancy ball clad in his ancestral clothing of the sixteenth century and
wearing the insignia of the chieftainship. He boasted that in doing so he broke no fewer than
three statute laws. But times are altered now, and the learned professor was permitted to indulge
his whim in peace. No clansmen gathered round him, and no "Sassenach" soldiery rent away his
saffron robe.

Attempts at the abduction of heiresses were then of more frequent occurrence than a lover of
Ireland could desire. Mr. Froude has made the most of this blot on their civilization, but
he has forgotten that such outrages were not in those days peculiar to Ireland. Mrs. Delany
relates a flagrant case which came under her immediate notice. Miss MacDermot was a Connaught
lady who with her sister had inherited a large estate. They were originally Catholics, but
decided on becoming Protestants. Their intention was suspected, and their maternal uncle, whose
name was Flinn, asked them to his house to dine, the distance not being so great as to prevent
them from returning home in the evening. They had never had a quarrel with this uncle, and
could not well refuse the invitation, though they would rather not have gone, the eldest sister
having rejected an offer of marriage from Flinn's only son. After dinner they prepared to leave,
but the uncle insisted on their remaining for the night. They refused firmly but politely,
and were then told that the chaise and servants had gone home, but would return for them the
next day. Miss MacDermot was much frightened, but, as they had no redress, she concealed her
feelings, and they sat down to cards. While engaged in this way four men with masks rushed
into the room. The two sisters made their escape into the next apartment, but were followed
by the masked men. One of these seized upon Miss Maria MacDermot, who had hid behind a bed,
but when he saw which he had he flung her from him with an oath, saying that she was not the
right sister. The portion of the elder being double that of the other explains this ungallant
proceeding. Miss MacDermot was then seized and dragged back into the room, where her uncle
was still standing by the fire. He took no notice of her tears and entreaties, but allowed
her to be forced into the hall, where a crowd of Flinn's friends and followers were assembled.
They set her on a pillion behind the principal mask. She was a tall, strong woman, and struggled
so violently that she succeeded in getting off the horse. While they were endeavoring to put
her back again, she managed to get the sword of one of the men, for they were all armed with
swords and bludgeons. Then, like a true Amazon,

    Her back against a tree she bore,
    And firmly placed her foot before,

and defended herself for some time, till one of the gang ran a sword up her arm from her wrist
to her elbow, and obliged her to drop her weapon. Being no longer able to resist between extreme
pain and loss of blood, she was taken to a cabin, where the cousin came in with a priest and
some others. The priest told her that if she submitted to the ceremony of marriage with Mr.
Flinn, she should be treated with kindness and respect. She declared she would rather die than
marry one who had been guilty of such outrageous conduct. They tried to force the ring on her
finger, and the priest was proceeding with the ceremony when the lady seized a jug of milk
which stood on a table near and dashed it in the face of "His Reverence." Some of the party
coming in gave the alarm to Flinn, saying in a whisper that the country was raised and in pursuit
of them. More messengers came to confirm the news. The lady's arm was still bleeding profusely,
and they carried her out and plunged her up to the shoulder in a bog, two men being left to
guard her. This singular treatment stopped the bleeding, but, though she was soon rescued,
she remained twenty-one days in great pain and danger. Her sister had previously escaped in
time to give the alarm. Some months after they came to Dublin and read their recantation in
Dr. Delany's church.

Miss MacDermot's courage was certainly admirable, but it must be admitted that Mr. Flinn was
not without his share of the same quality. Few men in these degenerate times would care to
have so brave a wife. Indeed, some of these Irish dames were quite capable of defending both
their rights and their privileges against assailants belonging to what is called the "stronger
sex." Sir Jonah Barrington's great-aunt, Mrs. Elizabeth Fitzgerald, and her husband held the
castle of Moret against the O'Cahils, who claimed it as having been originally theirs and taken
from them by another Elizabeth, the queen of England. They were repulsed with much slaughter,
but Squire Fitzgerald had the imprudence to venture outside the walls, and was carried off
by the survivors of the hostile faction. They approached the castle again with their prisoner,
and one of the party, exhibiting a white cloth on a pike, came forward: "I'm a truce, my lady.
Look here!" (showing the terrified squire): "we have your husband in hault: yees have yer castle
sure enough. Now we'll change, if you please: we'll render the squire, and you'll render the
keep; and if yees won't do that same, the squire will be throttled before your two eyes in
half an hour."--"Flag of truce," said the heroine with due dignity and without the slightest
hesitation, "mark the words of Elizabeth Fitzgerald of Moret Castle: they may answer for your
own wife upon some future occasion. Flag of truce, I won't render my keep, and I'll tell you
why: Elizabeth Fitzgerald may get another husband, but Elizabeth Fitzgerald may never get another
castle; so I'll keep what I have; and if you can't get off faster than your legs can readily
carry you, my warders will try which is the hardest--your skull or a stone bullet." It were
too long a story to relate how this Irish Penelope, unsustained by the hope of the return of
her Ulysses, inasmuch as she had seen him hanged before her eyes, defended her castle and her
liberty against all the neighboring squires, who had agreed to decide by lot which should carry
her off. Nearly every one of them had previously tried to persuade her to accept his hand,
the proposal being made by "flag of truce," till at length she threatened to hang the next
messenger.

These events took place in 1690. Later on, such women as Elizabeth Fitzgerald became more rare,
but there is one noted example of womanly daring which must not be passed over. The celebrated
"Lady Freemason" confronted the terrors of a Masonic lodge, and, unlike our mother Eve, the
forbidden knowledge has brought no evil consequences on her posterity, who continue to be reckoned
among the most estimable and most respected families of the county of Cork. The Hon. Elizabeth
St. Leger, daughter to Lord Doneraile, was descended from Robert de St. Leger, who accompanied
William the Conqueror to England, and cousin to the General St. Leger who instituted the Doncaster
St. Leger race. When a young girl she was seized with a desire to see the mysteries of the
initiation of a Mason which were about to be celebrated at her father's house. The generally-received
tradition is that she concealed herself behind a large old-fashioned eight-day clock, but another
version of the story is that some alterations being in progress, she picked a brick out of
the partition which divided the room occupied by the Masons from the adjoining apartment. However
this may be, the young lady got frightened and attempted to escape, but was detected by the
Mason on guard. Her life was spared, it is said, at the intercession of her brother, but on
condition of her becoming a member. She afterward married Richard Aldworth of Newmarket, and
lived and died much respected. On public occasions she walked at the head of the Freemasons
wearing the apron and insignia of the order. Her portrait in this attire is in the lodge-rooms
of several Irish lodges and also in the family mansion of the Aldworths. This family is of
English descent, and settled in the north-west of the county of Cork, where an ancestor of
theirs got a grant of land from James I. They patronized Curran's father, and appointed him
seneschal of their manor of Newmarket, in which town the great wit and patriot was born.

The remarkable prevalence of dueling, which rose in Ireland to almost an insane height toward
the end of the eighteenth century, had at least the good effect of encouraging a chivalrous
feeling toward women, who thenceforward depended on their male relatives and friends for protection.
It is said that if any gentleman presumed to pass between a lady and the wall in walking the
streets of Dublin, he was considered as offering a personal affront to her escort, and if the
parties wore swords, as was then customary, the first salutation to the offender was usually
"Draw, sir!" However, such affairs mostly ended in an apology to the lady for inadvertence.
But if a man ventured to intrude into the boxes of the theatre in his surtout or boots or with
his hat on, it was regarded as a general insult to every lady present, and he had little chance
of escaping without a shot or a thrust before the following night. It must be confessed that
this species of punctiliousness was carried too far. Some say that dueling reached to such
an extravagant pitch in Ireland because the Protestant gentry were a garrison in a hostile
country, and were obliged to cultivate familiarity with the means of defence. It is possible
that this state of affairs may have originally led to the remarkable prevalence of the custom,
for when such transactions as that between Mr. Morris and Arthur O'Leary were of frequent occurrence,
there must have been much to provoke the bitterest enmity. Nevertheless, it would seem that
there was really a good deal in the practice to warrant the old saying that "the English fight
for liberty, the French for glory and the Irish for fun." A gentleman who is said to have been
one of the most humane men existing quieted his little son in this wise when the child was
crying for something: "Come, now, do be a good boy. Come, now, don't cry, and I'll give you
a case of nice little pistols to-morrow. Come, now, don't cry, and we'll shoot them all in
the morning."--"Yes, yes," responded the child, drying his little eyes and delighted at the
notion--"Yes, we'll shoot them all in the morning." In the regulations for dueling, called
in Galway the "Thirty-six Commandments," one of the rules laid down was that when the seconds
disagreed and resolved to exchange shots, they should stand at right angles with the principals
and all fire together. A duel of this nature took place near Glinsk, the seat of Sir J. Bourke,
between that gentleman and a Mr. Bodkin, when the old family steward and other servants brought
out the son, then a child, and held him on men's shoulders to see papa fight! Professed duelists
were called "fire-eaters," and the first two questions always asked as to a young gentleman's
respectability and qualifications, particularly when he proposed for a wife, were, "What family
is he of? Did he ever blaze?"

A Mr. Bagenal in the county Carlow, called King Bagenal from his absolute sway within his extensive
territories, was a polished gentleman of Norman race. He used to have a brace of pistols laid
before him on the dinner-table, and when the claret was brought in after dinner--which was
always in an unbroached cask--Bagenal tapped it with a bullet from one pistol, and kept the
other in terrorem for any of his guests who should fail to do justice to the liquor. Some pigs
belonging to a neighboring gentleman having strayed into his flower-garden, Bagenal had them
docked of ears and tails, sending these trophies to the gentleman with an intimation that the
owner merited a like punishment. The gentleman, who had only recently settled there, sent him
a challenge, which he accepted with alacrity, stipulating, however, that as he was nearly eighty,
he should fight sitting in his arm-chair. The duel was fought in this strange fashion: Bagenal
wounded his antagonist, but escaped unhurt himself.

Barristers who were good shots were retained at elections as "fighting" counsel. A lawyer of
this stamp, having conducted an election more peaceably than his wont, was asked why he acted
contrary to his usual custom. He answered coolly, "Because my client does not pay me fighting
price." It was not usual for the Irish bar or the Irish members of Parliament to calculate
in this way when a chance of "blazing" was in question. Mr. Toler, afterward Lord Norbury of
punning celebrity, had some words with Sir Jonah Barrington. They left the House to settle
the dispute outside, but the Speaker, perceiving them, sent the sergeant-at-arms with his attendants
to bring them back. They caught Toler just as the skirts of his coat had become so entangled
in a door-handle that they were torn completely off. Sir Jonah, resisting the sergeant's satellites,
was caught up by one of them, brought back like a sack of meal on the man's shoulders, and
thrown down in the body of the House. The Speaker required them both to pledge their honor
that the matter should end there. When Toler rose to reply the dilapidated condition of his
coat became apparent, upon which Curran stood up and said gravely that "it was the most unparalleled
insult ever offered to the House, as it appeared that one honorable member had trimmed another
honorable member's jacket within those walls, and nearly within view of the Speaker."

The incessant play of wit and drollery then animating the Irish capital has perhaps never had
a parallel in any society. The House and the bar were both overflowing with it. When the dull,
matter-of-fact Lord Redesdale first came over to take the position of lord chancellor, he felt
some curiosity as to the reputation of the latter for these qualities which had reached his
ears in England. At one of his first dinners to the judges and higher law-officers he found
himself unable to see any wit, or perhaps any meaning, in Toler's jests, and turning to another
barrister, Mr. Garrat O'Farrell, he said that he believed his name and family were very numerous
and reputable in the county of Wicklow, as he had met several of them in his late tour there.
"Yes, my lord," said O'Farrell, "we were very numerous, but so many of us have been lately
hanged for sheepstealing that the name is getting rather scarce in that county." This reply
reduced his lordship to silence, and it was probably some time before he made up his mind as
to whether he had really been associating with law-breakers of so disreputable a class. Mr.
Plunket afterward puzzled Lord Redesdale still more when arguing a cause in chancery. The question
was about "flying kites" (fictitious bills). His lordship took the word literally, and declared
he did not understand the matter. "It is not to be expected that you should, my lord," said
Plunket, "for in England the wind raises the kite, but in Ireland the kite raises the wind."
The lord chancellor was no wiser than before, and the counsel was obliged to have recourse
to a less metaphorical explanation.

So late as the time of the Union old Irish families lived in the way described by De Ounce.
When a lad of fifteen he visited Ireland with his young friend Lord Westport. He was even then
a keen observer, and his remarks on the Irish nobility of that date are worthy of attention.
He first notices that the tardiness and difficulty of communication, the want of newspapers,
etc., must in those times have kept the provinces two or three generations in the rear of the
metropolis, and accordingly the old Irish rural nobility stood in this relation to English
manners and customs. It was the former whom De Quincey saw most of, and though they lived in
the amplest comfort and exercised the most unbounded hospitality, still they were greatly behind
the English commercial gentry as to modern refinements of luxury. There was at the same time
a strength of character and a raciness of manner which could not fail to interest and impress
a stranger. Although there was much sterling worth to be found in this class, a high-handed
lawlessness broke out now and then. Doubtless, a daily familiarity with the wrongs perpetrated
under cover of the penal laws undermined their natural sense of justice. A remarkable instance
of the tyranny sometimes practiced occurred in a family well known to the writer. A gentleman
rented several hundred acres of land from the earl of B----, a nobleman whose title is now
extinct. The tenant exercised some right that was permitted by the terms of his lease, which
had been granted by the former owner of the estate. Lord B----, who was a haughty and irascible
man, disputed the right, and the tenant came with his lease in his pocket to explain the matter.
It was winter, and there was a large fire in the room. Lord B---- asked to see the lease, and
when he got it into his hands suddenly thrust it into the middle of the fire, near which he
stood. He then told the gentleman that he would continue to let him hold half the land, but
that he had another tenant for the rest. As there were no witnesses to the transaction except
Lord B---- and the tenant, and the law's delays are always in favor of the rich, the gentleman
thought it better to submit. It is believed that a sum of money had been paid on receiving
the lease, which made the proceeding the more unjust.

Irish roads in those days were probably as bad as those in England. They could hardly have
been worse, for De Quincey tells of his childish interest in watching the postilions, who were
employed, not by fits and starts, but "always and eternally," in quartering--a word which he
explains to mean going from side to side to avoid the ruts and large stones. A natural consequence
of bad roads and inefficient police was the prevalence of highwaymen, who were then to be met
with in both countries. They usually infested the roads which had to be passed by traders at
fairs or by men employed in collecting rents. A noted highwayman named Brennan was the terror
of all who traveled in the northern part of the county of Cork. After some outrages more than
usually daring, no one in the service of a gentleman in that neighborhood could be found brave
enough to pass the lonely mountain-road to bring home a balance of rent remaining due. A young
lad volunteered, saying that he would go in his every-day garb, and that no one would suspect
him of carrying money about him. Having received and secreted the cash, he was returning in
apparent safety, but just as he arrived at the loneliest part of the road Brennan leaped out
from behind a hedge and presented a loaded pistol. "Give up that money," said he to the boy.--"Sure,
then, I will if you give me time, but you won't have me go home wid my finger in my mouth,
widout looking as if I made a stand for it, anyhow. Look here!" continued Jerry, dismounting
and holding up the ragged skirt of his coat, "couldn't you put a ball through this for me?"--"'Tis
riddled enough in all conscience, but here goes," said the highwayman, firing off a pistol
at it.--"Here's my ould caubeen now, and I'll just give my face a scratch to draw the blood
if you put a hole through that too." The hat was riddled for him in the same way. "Well, now,
that's grand; but I think if the other skirt was tore, they couldn't say a word then."--"Why,
you omadhaun! haven't you enough of it? Give me the rint. Do you think I have any more powder
and ball to be wasting on you, you spalpeen?"--"If you haven't, I have," cried Jerry, springing
on his horse, and pulling out a loaded pistol he was off and away before the astonished highwayman
had time to prevent him or to reload his weapon.

The legislative union forms a distinct epoch in Irish social life, and we cannot more fitly
close this paper than by giving an account of the last meeting of the Irish House of Lords
in the words of an observant and dispassionate eye-witness. To-morrow they will be nobody--men
of straw--terræ filii.

ELIZA WILSON.

VINA'S "OLE MAN."

"Vina's got an idee she wants to git married." The speaker was a venerable darkey, who stood
twirling his rimless hat with a sheepish air in the probate-office.

"Rather hard for you, Father Abram," said the judge kindly, "but it's a way girls have. I presume
my daughter will be leaving me some day in the same ungrateful fashion. Bring around Vina's
man and I will make out the license."

Father Abram's manner became at once more confused and ludicrous: he poised himself alternately
on either foot, and scratched his head vigorously, while his facial expression was something
too comical for description. Finally, through a series of embarrassed chuckles and gurgles,
he rippled into a broad guffaw, articulating indistinctly between its paroxysms, "Bress de
Lord, sah! I'se de man!"

"Shades of the mighty!" exclaimed the judge, in his astonishment dropping his pen upon a virgin
page in his docket. "But the United States is a Christian country, Abram, and a man can't marry
his own daughter here: it's contrary to law and gospel."

"Yes, sah?" said the negro submissively. "Den dar ain't no way for me an' Vina to git married,
not even if we go over to Platte City? Vina'll be mightily disappointed."

"Good Heavens! no. 'Twould be a State's prison offence, and I don't see what ever put such
a revolting idea into your head anyway, you hoary-headed old sinner!"

'"Deed, sah, 'tain't no idee ob mine. I done tole yer dat it was all 'long ob Vina, but I wouldn't
see her outed for a sight" (outed being a negro expression for displeased). "An' don't yer
t'ink, sah, de law might be changed, jus' for dis one time, or dat Vina an' I could be sent
to de penitentium togedder? It's rather hard on both on us, 'specially on Vina--'specially
as she ain't no more my darter than you be."

"Why didn't you say so before, instead of having all this talk about it? I don't know whether
to believe you now: it is more than likely only a lie that you have trumped up as a last resort."

"Wish I may die, sah, ef it ain't de honest truf; an' de fus' time dat ebber I set eyes on
Vina war in a slabe-pen in New Orleans eight years ago, when we war sold to de same marster.
Ef Massa John Brown war libbin' he could prove it to yer; but dar ain't no udder libbin' human
'cept de slabe-driber--and he war blowed up on his nex' trip up de ribber--dat knows anyting
about it."

The judge believed now that Abram had spoken the truth, for the time

    When Old John Brown, Ossawattomie Brown,
    Shall be a name to swear by in backwoods and in town,

had come. The time was the commencement of the war, and any reference to his name on the part
of a negro was equivalent to the most solemn oath.

"What did John Brown ever know about it?" asked the judge.

"Why, yer see, he war dar, sah: he come down de ribber on de same boat wid de driber an' Vina.
De driber he'd done bought up a heap ob likely young gals all de way down t'roo' Missouri an'
de udder towns what neighbored on to de ribber--han'somest young women he could find, what'd
bring a high price in New Orleans--an' when he gits dar, what's he do but go roun' to all de
slabe-pens an' buy up a heap ob worn-out, or'nary old niggers, what had been worked to def
in de rice-swamps, an' nobody wouldn't gib five dollars for. Den he marries de peartest ob
de gals to de mizzablest ob de ole men. When de time fur de auction come, dar was plenty ob
buyers for de gals, but nobody wanted dem good-for-nuffin' ole husbands. 'Can't help it,' says
de driber--'Can't help it, no way whatsumebber: it's ag'in our principles to part families.
Ef yer want de woman, yer mus' take her ole man too.' An' so dey gin'rally did, an' paid a
high price fur him too, fur de sake ob gittin' de gal. Wall, as I was a-sayin', Massa John
Brown he come down in de same boat wid Vina: he'd took notice ob her, and he knowed she hadn't
any ole man. De nex' day he come walkin' down to de slabe-pen, a-purtendin' to be a planter,
and a-axin' de price ob de niggers. When dey tole him I was Vina's husband, he says, 'Why,
he's too ole to be anybody's husband: I don't believe he's got a toof in his head.'--'Yes I
has, massa,' says I: 'I'se got t'ree left, and can chaw hoecake powerful, but I don't crack
no pecans in my mouf. Better buy me, sah: dar's a heap ob sarbice in me yet. I'se only drawed
up wid de rheumatiz, dat's all.'--'Come ober heah to de light,' says he, 'an' let me look in
yo' mouf, an' see whedder yer hab got any teef.' So I went wid him, an' while he was a-purtendin'
to find out my p'ints he says to me, very quiet, 'Yer ain't dat gal's husband, nohow,' says
he, 'an' yer knows it.':--'I knows it, massa,' says I, 'an' I'se skeered for my life ob her,
fur she done said she'd kill any one dey dar'd to mate wid her: she's done got a husband ob
her own up de ribber, I reckon.'--'Yes, dat am de truf,' says Massa John Brown; 'but see here,
uncle: de Lord has done 'p'inted yer to be a guardian angel to dat po' chile. He calls yer
to be a fader to her; an' from dis day yer is her fader--'member dat. But it may be jus' as
well for yer to purtend to be her husband: 'at will keep de udder boys from pesterin' her.
But 'member dis: de Lord will 'quire dat chile's happiness of yo' han's, an' will so do by
yer as yer do by her.'--'Be yer de angel ob de Lord, massa?' says I. 'Clar' to goodness, sah!
I was dat skeered one knee knocked ag'in de udder like a woodpecker a-hammerin' a rotten tree.--'Yes,'
says he: 'I be de messenger ob de Lord, an' my name is John Brown, but I don't s'pose yer ebber
heern tell ob it.'--'No, massa,' says I, 'we don't see no powerful sight ob angels down in
de rice-swamps.'--'Well, keep a-watchin' an' a-waitin',' says he, 'an' yer will heer from me
ag'in.' Wid dat de driber come up, and he tole him he guessed he wouldn't buy me dat day; and
den he went away.

"Vina said dis mornin' she 'lowed to go up to yo' house to do some washin' for de missus; an'
yer can ax her, sah, an' she'll tell yer dat all I'se been a-sayin' is de libbin' truf."

The judge hardly needed any confirmation--Abram's story was too straightforward and naïf to
have been coined--but, telling him to call at his house toward evening, and that he would have
the necessary papers there, and make them out if satisfied as to the eligibility of the parties
for such a contract, he dismissed the aspirant for marital honors. As the judge entered the
shaded coolness of his library after a distracting day spent in the discussion of a complicated
will-case, the refreshing atmosphere of refinement and quiet and home exercised so powerful
an influence over his tired nerves that he straightway forgot all professional and other cares,
and stretching himself in his favorite lazy-chair, was soon fast asleep.

As he drifted back to a semi-conscious state he became aware of voices conversing on the back
veranda, which shaded one of the library windows. The voices were those of his wife and the
girl Vina, and the words which he first clearly comprehended were--

"I tell yer what, Miss' Fairdealer, dar ain't no niggerism about ole Fader Abram."

As Father Abram approached the nearest to a pure-blooded Congo African of any negro that he
knew, the judge rubbed his forehead in the gentle stimulating way which he always employed
when he wished to convince himself that he had heard aright and to assure some sophomorical
young lawyer that he had not been asleep at all, but had caught every word of his long-winded
statement of the case. The judge's ideas came back to him with their usual easy flow, and before
the next sentence was enunciated he had made a mental summing-up of the case and given judgment
for the plaintiff.

"I mean," continued Vina, "dat Fader Abe's got de whitest soul ebber yer see: he couldn't do
a mean ting, no matter how much money de debbil 'greed to pay him for't. Fus' time I ebber
see him war down in Lousianny. My ole marster had sole me away from my husband an' from John
Brown: she war a little ting den, only six mo'ths, an' oughtn't to have been weaned, but I
don't s'pose he cared whether she libbed or died, and de slabe-driber wouldn't take her--"

"How did you," interrupted Mrs. Judge Fairdealer with the curiosity of a true woman, "ever
give your little girl such an unsuitable name as John Brown?"

("Why couldn't the woman let her go on with her story?" thought the judge. What did he care
how that impish little creature, whom he had always regarded as old Abram's granddaughter,
and who glared at him with such savage malignity from her piercing black eye (no figure of
speech, for she had but one) when with his foot and cane he gently rolled her off the door-mat,
where he found her coiled up asleep on his entrance to the house,--what did he care how that
mixture of chimpanzee and evil sprite, to whom were to be attributed nine-tenths of the mischief
done in the neighborhood, came by her unmaidenly cognomen?)

"John Brown didn' hab no name den: she war jus' my baby, dat war all. I use to t'ink I'd call
her for her fader, an' his name war George--mos' consniptious rascal ebber yer see, de han'somest
man in de whole township (John Brown takes arter him a sight), but so powerful ugly" (ugly
being used here in reference to disposition) "dat de only way de oberseer could make him mind
was to hab a parcel ob de boys hold him down while he kicked him in de mouf. Wall, short time
befo' John Brown was born he kicked one of his eyes out dat ar way, and I nussed him an' tended
him till he got well; an' when John Brown come, 'clar' to goodness ef she didn' have jus' only
one eye too! Wall, I lubbed dat ar George wid all my soul, Miss' Fairdealer. Mean an' sneakin'
a nigger as ebber libbed, but I didn' know it den; an', anyway, he war John Brown's fader,
an' powerful han'some; an' dat do count for sumfin'. When dey sole me away from him I jus'
t'ought I should die. Dey let me take my baby wid me down to de partin'-plank--dat's what dey
called de gangway dey t'row out from de steamboat--but dar de gals had to bid good-bye to all
dar fren's. Such a hollerin' and yellin' an' takin'-on you nebber heerd, Miss' Fairdealer.
It was a little lonesome, landin' in de midst ob a right smart piece ob timber, like a many
another along de Big Muddy, whar de boats stop to wood up--fearsome-enough place any day, but
at night, wid dem tar-barrels a-flarin' an' dem women a-screechin'--some on 'em gone clean
crazy, and all on 'em actin' zif dey had--it war more like dat place dan any 'scription I ebber
heerd any minister gib ob it. I 'members one face, dat ob a man dat leaned ober de railin'
and looked at us bein' dribben on board, dat looked so wild and mad-like. I allus t'ink de
Lord will look dat way when on de day ob judgment he says, ''Part from me, all ye onb'lievin',
backslidin' workers ob pernickety: don't want to see no more ob yer.' He spoke to me once on
our way down de ribber. 'Hab patience, chile,' said he: 'de Lord ain't clean forgot yer. He'll
bring yer an' yo' baby togedder ag'in ef yer kin only wait His own good time. I'm on de Lord's
business: He's sent me down dis yeah ribber, same as he sent Moses into Egyp', to 'quire into
dis matter an' to preach deliberance to de captive. Yer will all be free some day, but yer
mus' hab patience, for de time is not yet.' I heern some one say dat dat war John Brown, and
somehow de name heartened me up a little, do' I'd nebber heern it befo'."

Vina next told the incident of her so-called marriage at the slave-mart with old Abram.

"'Pears like," said Vina, "I could hab killed dat man when dey tole me he was my husband; but
when he tole me 'twan't no sech ting, an' axed me if I hadn't ebber heern 'bout Fader Abram
at camp-meetin', an' dat he wan't no fader till de Lord sent His angel and called him to be
one--same as He called him to be a fader to me--den I listened to him, an' 'gan to b'lieve
de Lord reely had sent him. Den he tole me how Abram went down into Egyp' wid his cousin Sarer,
an' ole Pharaoh wanted to marry her, an' Abram he purtended dat Sarer was his wife, so Pharaoh
shouldn't get her--leastways, it was sumfin' like dat--an' how de Lord bressed 'em, an' how
when dey cl'ar'd out ob Egyp' dey stole 'bout ebberyting Pharaoh had; an' dat John Brown had
done tole him to be anudder Fader Abram; an' I promised him I'd be anudder Sarer to him, an'
we'd pull de wool ober de white folks's eyes, an' serbe de Lord till it done pleased Him to
set us free."

Vina and Father Abram were bought by a planter who, with so many others in 1855, swarmed to
the irrepressible conflict which was to decide whether Kansas was to be a free or slave State.
By the repeal of the Missouri Compromise this question had been left for settlement to the
people of the Territory. Emigration flowed in rapidly, both from the South and the North, and
the terrible days of Border Ruffianism followed. Vina's master settled upon a farm in Southern
Kansas, on the banks of a little stream called then by the picturesque name of the Marais des
Cygnes, which has since been changed to one of a more prosaic character. Here they heard frequently
of old John Brown of Ossawattomie, and began to have a clearer understanding of the man and
his mission. Vina spoke of her life on the Marais des Cygnes as not a hard one, but her heart
ached for her baby and for George, and the longing to see them again grew with every day and
night. She felt sure that John Brown could help her, and one night Father Abram said to her,
"I'se gwine to run away, honey--gwine to keep agwine till I find John Brown: den, when I'se
foun' him, I'll keep agwine and agwine and agwine till I finds yo' George: den I'll come back
arter yer. Reckon I'll be here in about a munf: yer kin look for me ebbery night arter dat
down by de big cottonwood tree on de ribber." And when the month expired Father Abram came
back, but he did not come alone: John Brown and he had found George. He only waited to see
their rapturous meeting, and then bade good-bye to his "darter Vina," and heroically trudged
away. Vina and George fled away to John Brown's camp near Ossawattomie. Her first question
was for her baby. It had been cared for by one of the negro-women, and was now three years
old. The family had removed to Platte City, Missouri, nine miles from the Kansas frontier,
but the child was still with them when George left.

"An' yer done luff dat bressed baby? Didn' car' what 'come ob her, so yo' own mizzable self
was safe!" exclaimed Vina in much disgust. George explained that this was the only way--that
it would have been utterly impossible for him to have got away with the child--and promised
that if ever a raid was made in that direction, he would join it and bring her away, at no
matter what risk. In 1857 affairs began to be more settled in Kansas. John Brown, having ended
his work here, had gone East: Vina and George were living in Leavenworth. Little by little,
she had found out that it would have been better for her if they had never met. George was
satisfied: freedom for him meant being supported by Vina, getting drunk whenever he pleased,
and ill-treating her by way of showing his gratitude. Vina could have borne all this willingly
enough, but at last a perfectly safe opportunity for the rescue of her baby occurred, and George
refused to attempt it. They were well enough off as they were: he didn't see "what she wanted
ob dat chile to support--he was sho' he wouldn't do it;" and as for adventuring his precious
self among the Philistines again, he utterly declined the proposition. Then Vina's anger rose,
and with her lifted mop she drove her liege lord from her cabin-door, which he ever after found
barred against him. George soon consoled himself with another wife, and about a year later
departed for parts unknown. The years that followed were hard and lonely ones for Vina, but
she never wept for George: to use her own expression, "He wan't no cry-tear-un (criterion),
he wan't, and she wasn't going to cry no tears for him."

Father Abram had found his way to Leavenworth too, but it was not till 1860 that Providence
again threw them together. He stood erect now with a sense of freedom and manhood: a comparatively
easy life had untied the knots that rheumatism had twisted in his muscles, and the weight of
fully twenty years seemed to have been lifted from his shoulders. He heard her story. "'Pears
like de Lord has got more work for Fader Abram," he said simply; and shortly after he found
a way to do the Lord's work. When Vina reached this point in her story the judge became aware
that his wife and himself were not the only listeners. Father Abram, true to his appointment,
had come around to see if the judge's scruples had been overcome, and to ask for the marriage
license.

"Fader Abram," said Vina, "tell Miss' Fairdealer how yer done foun' John Brown."

"Couldn't help findin' her," replied the old man. "Dar she was, right 'fo' my eyes. I reckon
yer'd a foun' her ef de Lord had sot her down squar' in front ob yer, as he did ob me.--Ye
see, madam, dat ar spring I was workin' for de Risin' Sun libbery-stable: Colonel Trott an'
Cap'n Gallup run it den. De colonel was what yer call a fas' man, one ob yo' racin', bettin'
characters, but right smart ob a gentleman same time; while de cap'n b'longed to de Church,
and war de meanes' man out of Missouri. 'Bout dat time de firm owned Challenger, de fas'est
Kansas horse goin', an' dey made a heap ob money a-racin' him at all de fairs. De colonel allus
divided de winnin's wid de cap'n, but when he lost on a race de cap'n made him stan' it out
ob his private puss, 'cause he said bettin' was ag'in his principles, anyhow. Dis yeah spring
dar was goin' to be a famous big race at Platte City, an' de colonel he 'lowed he'd take Challenger
ober. Now, de colonel nebber rode a hoss on de track--'twan't t'ought to be de correct ting
for a gentleman to do--and he weighed a heap too much for anyting short ob a elephant to race.
I war de leanest man in de stables, an' as de colonel war more dan usual pertik'lar 'bout Challenger
carrying light weight dis time, he took me 'long wid him. When we got dar he gabe me a quarter
an' tole me to loaf roun' until de races was called. Dis war jus' what I wanted, fur I knowed
dat de Skylarks who used to own Vina libbed at Platte City, an' I t'ought likely some ob dem
mought be at de races. Dar was a right smart sprinklin' ob niggers on de groun's, mos' ob dem
hangin' roun' de 'freshment-stan's, an' I walked roun' 'mongst 'em kinder careless, zif I wasn't
t'inkin' ob nuffin' pertik'lar, when I see standin' right in front ob me a little one-eyed
gal dat 'minded me mightily ob Vina's George. 'Whose little gal be yer?' says I.--'She's one
ob Judge Skylark's niggers,' says a woman standin' by. 'Don't see none ob de udders here: shouldn't
wonder if she'd runn'd away to see de racin'.' Wall, I waited till nobody wan't lookin', an'
den I axed her what her name was.--'Dey calls me Vina's little gal,' says she.--'Who's Vina?'
says I.--'Dar ain't no Vina,' says she.--Who's yo' fader an' mudder?' says I.--'George was
my fader,' says she, 'but de abolitioners done carried him off an' chawed him up. I'se awful
skeered ob de abolitioners, I is. I ain't got no fader nor mudder: de buzzards done hatched
me.' Wall, I was dat sho' it was Vina's chile dat I didn' wait no longer, but jus' toted her
roun' to de ice-cream stan' an' filled her chock full of ice-cream. Den I says, 'How would
yer like a ride on one ob dem fancy hosses?' an' showed her whar to hide outside de groun's
until de races was ober, when I'd gib her one. I knew de colonel 'lowed to send me home wid
Challenger dat night, and, do' it was mighty resky, I 'lowed to take dat chile wid me. Dat
war de fus' race dat Challenger lost dat season, but I didn' put him t'roo' his best paces,
for I t'ought likely dar might be need ob tall runnin' dat night, an' I didn' want him to play
out den. De colonel war mightily outed, fur de stakes was heavy, an' I was sorry 'nuff to see
him lose. He tole me I'd got to ride libelier dan dat ef I meant to git to de Leavenworth ferry
'fo' de boat made its last trip for de day; and I knowed dat as well as he did.

"I foun' little John Brown waitin' fur me jus' whar I tole her to hide: she was too skeered
to go home, fur she knowed dey would gib her a lickin' fur runnin' away. I took her up befo'
me on de hoss, an' we started fur home, 'Pears like de road from Platte City to de Leavenworth
ferry's jus' 'bout de lonesomes' in dis yeah worl', an' I hadn't trabelled more'n five mile
'fore I knew I was follered. I could hear de clappetty, clappetty ob de hosses a good piece
behin' me, an' one place whar de road stretched middlin' straight for nigh a half mile along
de bluffs I see 'em, as many as five men, a-ridin' like mad an' a-shakin' carbines in de arr.
Den I knowed dat dey was eder after John Brown or Challenger; an', hoss-thieves or kidnappers,
I knew it would far' jus' about de same wid me. 'Go for true,' says I to Challenger; an' den
I wraps John Brown in de hoss-blanket so dey couldn't rightly tell what it was I was a-carryin'.
We'd a won de stakes easy ef I'd made Challenger lif' up his heels on de track de way he did
on dat ar road. De sun went down an' de moon riz, an' I t'ink likely we trod on as many as
twenty squirrels: dey didn' hab time to cl'ar de road after dey heard us a-comin'. I rode into
Slab Town jus' about ten minutes ahead of my follerers, an' den I foun' dat de wus' dat could
happen had happened. De Ella had made her las' trip, an' was tied up to de Kansas sho'. Dar
wan't no time fur considerin' de matter. I see a flatboat hauled up on de bank, an' I shubbed
her off, led Challenger onto her, an' poled her off into de ribber. Challenger didn' want to
go aboard, nohow--he knowed it wan't safe--but I struck him de fus' blow I ebber gin a hoss
of his blood, an' we were pretty well out in de current when de Missourians come ridin' down
to de sho'. Dey was dat mad when dey see us dat dey fired all dar shot-guns at us, an' Challenger
was dat s'prised dat he jumped right into de arr, an' come down on his feet ag'in like a jack-rabbit.
Dat was a leetle too much for de ole raft, an' she done went to pieces like a bundle of straw.
John Brown was a-holdin' on to Challenger's neck, an' she jus' held on, legs an' han's, wid
her fingers clenched into de mane, so dat I had to cut some ob it off arterward to git 'em
away. We'se nebber been able to prise 'em clean open sence: dey look more like birds' claws
dan han's, anyway, do' 'tain't likely yer ebber took notice on't. I was a-holdin' on to Challenger's
tail, an' dar we all t'ree was in de middle ob de ribber. Wall, fus' de current carried us
down a good piece, an' I t'ought it was all ober for dis nigger sho'; den de saddle-girth bust,
an' dat seemed to gib Challenger some 'couragement, fur he drawed a long breff an' struck out
fur de Kansas sho'. Wall, it war an awful swim, an' no mistake, but bimeby we all landed, 'bout
halfway down to Quindaro, blowin' and snortin' like so many steamboats. I didn' try to ride
Challenger up to Leavenworth, but jis' walked by his side, a-huggin' an' a-kissin' him as I
nebber kissed no women-trash in all my young days, an' John Brown a-lyin' 'crost his back as
limp as a empty gunny-bag. I took her roun' to Vina's 'fore I went to de libbery-stable, an'
jes' 'fore I come to de doah a t'ought come to me dat made me dat sick to de stomach I could
hardly stan'. S'posin', after all, she wan't Vina's chile! But she was--leastways, Vina was
sure ob it--an' ob all de goin's-on dat gal went into yer'd a t'ought 'twas sumfin' mighty
consequentious, stead ob nuffin' but a little nigger young 'un. 'Yer jus' take back dat hoss,
Fader Abram,' says she, 'an' den come back to yo' darter Vina; an' don't yer dar lib anywhar
else after dis.'

"I tole Cap'n Gallup I'd been chased by hoss-thieves, an' had swum de ribber wid Challenger,
but I didn' say nuffin' 'bout John Brown, for dat war de name Vina gabe de chile dat very day.
I went dar, as she tole me, an' she got up de biggest dinnah, wid more chicken-fixin's an'
pie an' cake dan ebber I see; but dat arternoon I was taken down ag'in wid de rheumatiz--couldn't
do no work for more'n six munfs, an' don't reckon I'll be much use any more, nohow. Vina's
tuk car' ob me more'n two year now. She's had a sight ob beaux, but she's allus tole 'em she
couldn't leab her ole fader. Las' one was dat spruce yaller schoolmarster from Oberlin. Says
I, 'Vina, why don't yer git married? 'Pears like yer'd feel less onsettled an' lonesome ef
yer had an ole man.' Says she, 'I'se got one ole man: dat's 'nuff.' Says I, 'But don't yer
nebber t'ink yer'd like to git married, Vina?' An' says she, 'Yes, Fader Abram, I do. How does
you feel 'bout it?' and wid dat she--Beg yer pardon, sah, I didn' know you war dar, sah, but
if yer've brought dem ar papers we was speakin' 'bout dis mornin', sah, I t'ink Vina 'll let
dis day's washin' go toward payin' for 'em, sah, an' I'll come down to de office an' tote up
yer winter's coal for de balance ob de damages."

LIZZIE W. CHAMPNEY.

TO SLEEP

    I pray thee, timid Sleep, to bide with me.
    Night after night do not affrighted be,
          Like some wild bird,
        Which, at the softest word
        Or slightest rustle heard,
    Afar from human presence swift doth flee.

    I woo thee, gentle Sleep, with every art
    That wistfullest desire can impart;
          But cruelly
        Thou still deniest me
        Thy restful company,
    And I am weary--body, mind and heart.

    Yes, very tired my body is with pain,
    And heart with care, while thoughts perplex my brain.
          O sweet Repose!
        If thou mine eyes wouldst close,
        My wearied limbs compose,
    And bind me till the morn with slumb'rous chain!

    Not yet? Ah, cruel Sleep! soon I shall find
    Thy brother, sterner called, to be more kind.
          Most welcome guest,
        Death bringeth gift of rest--
        Rest undisturbed and blest,
    When dream and care and pain are left behind.

    EMILIE POULSSON.

THE PARIS CAFÉS.

Alimentary, and not literary, is the modern café. Times are so changed since Voltaire, Diderot
and the rest sang and shouted in the Café Procope--jested, reasoned and made themselves immortal
there--there are so many people who have the means to frequent cafés, and there is such an
immense floating population, eager, curious and bent on sightseeing, that no clique can live.
Its precincts, no matter how hallowed, are invaded by the leering mob and His many-headed Majesty
the Crowd. Still, certain cafés are able to boast a clientèle, with the military, journalistic,
artistic or commercial element in preponderating force--cafés where the stockbrokers, students
or officers go--but the old historic café, the café of tradition, where you were sure to find
some celebrity on exhibition--a first-class poet or a philosopher--may be said to be defunct.
The Grand Café and the Café de la Paix under the Grand Hôtel, being very central, near the
new Opéra, and gorgeously fitted up, are the chief rendezvous of the fashionable floating population,
aristocratic loafers of all nations, where representatives from the remotest parts of the earth
meet to stare at each other under the same roof--Persians, Greeks and Hindoos, Sandwich Islanders
and Yankees. Tortoni's is a restaurant and café of the highest class, the most select in the
city. Café Riche and Café Grétry, both fine cafés, are much frequented by stockbrokers, who
in the evening are wont to assemble on the sidewalk near by, making the night air ring with
their wild shouts of "give" and "take:" if dispersed by the police, as they often are, they
generally gather into knots a little farther on. Café du Helder is appropriated almost exclusively
to the military, officers in bourgeois dress, students from the Polytechnic and St. Cyr, and
horse-jockeys. The Café des Variétés belongs to the actors--a noisy, brilliant place--whilst
the Café Madrid is the literary café of the nineteenth century, if there is any. Under Napoleon
III. it was the centre of the radical opposition, being frequented by all the shades of Red,
from the delicate hue of the Débats to the deep crimson of Flourens and Rochefort. Under the
Commune it continued to be notorious, and to-day it is the resort of lawyers, journalists and
Bohemians--lesser lights who seem to like the location, on the confines of the bad Boulevard
Montmartre, and have no objection to the cocottes who come there in the evening. Like La Fontaine's
mule,

    Qui ne parlait incessament
    Que de sa mère la jument,

they talk only of literature, their nurse, and speak disparagingly--it is a peculiarity of
the place--of all the fellow-beings she has suckled. It is the typical French café, in the
central salon of which, in majestic repose, sits the dame de comptoir, who has a little gray
moustache--the French like a little hair upon the upper lip of ladies--whilst overhead, forming
a part of the extraordinary decoration, is a Madonna, goddess, angel--I can't say what--copied
from one of the old masters in the palace of the Luxembourg. Gold-dust blown across a blue
oval, with white-and-rose angels in the midst, shuts off the upward gaze in one of the other
salons, whilst all around medallions large and small of heads and figures, male, female and
infantile, with a variety of vine-wreathed Bacchuses and bow-drawing Cupids, which are considered
especially fit to decorate cafés, cluster along the mouldings, encumber the panels or fill
up the niches. Huge mirrors reflect the pea-green walls, the crystal chandeliers, the gilding,
glass and divans; cats perambulate the apartments; people come and go--black, elegant fellows,
with broad-rimmed hats, pretty canes, good clothes, good fits; absinthe-drinkers, with heavy
jaws and dreamy, evil eyes. Billiard-balls are clicking in the back room; cards and dominoes
are being played; cold-blooded, demoralized people lean forward, gossip and gesticulate--men
who would man a barricade on occasion or put a sword-blade through a stomach.

With a very few exceptions, all the leading cafés of Paris have become restaurants. You breakfast,
dine and sup there; and in place of coffee being the sole or leading article of consumption,
an infinite variety of drinks is now at the disposal of the thirsty wayfarer. Mocha, that product
of the East the preparation of which, like the making of bread, is the stumbling-block of housekeepers
in both hemispheres, is served in three ways--as a capucin, a mazagran or a demi-tasse. A capucin
(the name is but little used) is our cup of coffee--coffee with milk in it; a mazagran is coffee
in a glass, accompanying which a decanter of water is brought. The name is derived from a village
in Africa where the French had a brilliant feat of arms, and where the soldiers, in the absence
of milk or brandy, had to water their coffee or drink it au naturel. The coffee itself is precisely
the same as that furnished for the demi-tasse, which is served in a small china cup, accompanying
which is a little decanter of cognac, with a fairy glass for measuring it; for the French,
in place of cream, take brandy with coffee and rum with tea--to us an incomprehensible mixture.
After breakfast and dinner the Frenchman desires coffee, and if he does not get it at home
he goes to the café for it. To do without it, or to do without claret at meals, would be a
dreadful alternative to which he would not long submit without, it might be, losing his reason
and taking his life. Strong, black and fragrant, he would die without that beverage for which--and
for Racine, by the way--Madame de Sévigné prophesied an ephemeral popularity. Taken immediately
after meals, it removes the fumes of the claret and champagne he has drunk, and leaves him
feeling as clear-headed as Plato and grateful as a pensioner of the king.

Just before meal-time the cafés are crowded with people indulging in one of the renowned trio
of appetizers, one of the great triumvirate of anteprandial potations--bittère, vermouth and
absinthe. Bittère is a clear grateful drink of Hollandic derivation, considered more wholesome
than either of its fellows; vermouth is a wormwood wine the drinker does not like at first
(please draw the inference that he becomes immensely fond of it at last); whilst absinthe--what
shall we say of it? It is execrable stuff--the milk of sirens mingled with sea-water. Of a
dirty-green color, pungent, all-powerful, it heats up the stomach, expending itself at the
extremities in half-developed throbs, perpetual wavelets of rankling sting that break upon
the shores of flesh. It mounts to the hair-roots, fills the entrails with a furnace-glow, goes
everywhere. It is the worst of French drinks, representing and standing for what is worst in
French character, worst in France. It cannot be tossed off at a throw: it must be toyed with,
sipped. Stimulating, enervating, poisonous, horrible--all the more so perhaps because it is
not intoxicating exactly--God has put a barrier against its use by making it distasteful; but,
strange to say, all those things men run after: rum, tobacco, opium, absinthe, are always distasteful
at first, if not for a long time afterward.

But the French do not drink rum, gin, whiskey or water to any great extent. With the exception
of absinthe and considerable brandy, their drinking occupies a middle ground. They revel in
a multitude of subtile, delightful mixtures--liqueurs, crêmes and sirops. Very dear to the
heart of refined sensualists is the famous monks' liquor called chartreuse, which deservedly
ranks at the head of the long list of liqueurs--anisette, curaçao, maraschino, rosolio, alkermès,
ratafia, genièvre, etc. It is made by the monks of the Grande Chartreuse, near Grenoble, of
certain aromatic herbs and brandy, the former gathered by them in their summer wanderings amongst
the Jura Mountains. It is a sticky, sweet compound of a green or yellow color, and of such
a fiery nature that it must be sipped, not drunk. Many a hater of the priesthood, holding up
one of the little thimbleful glasses in which it is served, has exclaimed, "Blessed be monks
for making thee! Compound of devil, dew and honey! in thee have they sought to indemnify themselves
for lack of wife, and partially have they succeeded."

All these liqueurs, indeed, are rather ladies' drinks. So too are the crêmes--mocha, tea, noyau,
cumin, mint, ether, etc.; also the sirops, including orgeat, very refreshing in the summer-time.
Masculine preferences are for beer, immense quantities of which are drunk, especially in the
evening, or for fine champagne, the name bestowed upon superior brandy. However, ladies and
gentlemen unite in disposing of half-frozen punch (sorbets) or eating ices--say a tutti frutti
at the Café Napolitain--ravishing mixtures of cold and passion, the fruits of the tropics imbedded
in a slice of the North Pole.

French drinks are, like French dishes, artistic preparations, and the French cafés artistic,
pretty places, indispensable to the scenic completeness of things in France, if not to the
comfort and well-being of the people. A landscape without water, a bride without a veil, a
house without windows, would be something like France (Paris especially) without cafés. To
take away its cafés would be to pluck out its eyes, to leave it dull and dead--food without
appetite, marriage without love or the honeymoon. Its industries may give it sinew, muscle,
bone and nerve; the Institute may give it brains; but the cafés--they are its life-blood and
its pulse.

The French cultivate even a love of home in going to the café. For what is a love of home?
It is certainly not a mere local attachment, such as the cat has for the particular hearth-rug
where she dozes by day or the particular tiles and water-spouts where she howls by night. It
is rather the love of family and friendly union, in which the French take especial delight,
gathering together in little knots by the open window, in the garden, on the sidewalk, or,
it may be, in the café, talking in the leaping, emancipated, touch-and-go style, in the merry,
vaulting style in which they excel, on all the lighter topics.

But the desire to economize keeps away a great many people, for the French are very economical.
In the great army of the bourgeois, as well as in the great army of the blouses--many of whom
could be bourgeois if they chose--whole families, husbands, fathers, brothers, sons, abstain
from going to the café, either alone or accompanied, from Christmas to New Year's and New Year's
to Christmas. Neither would you find MacMahon, Thiers or Victor Hugo at the café. The recognized
great, the nobility and high officials, contrary to what perhaps is commonly supposed, are
rarely to be seen there. They meet in some more private way.

But the café is nevertheless a very charming place. It is a place where it is permitted to
you to surrender yourself to the most delicious reflections. You are in the presence of humming-birds,
not ostriches or owls. The people are smoking cigarettes, or cigars at worst, not meerschaums.
The establishment itself is a dazzle of decoration, a little corner of the Louvre. There is
no shouting or swearing, but a pleasing hum. The calls of messieurs and the replies of garçons
resolve themselves into a confused lulling sound. If you are well, and your conscience does
not trouble you--and even if it does--you can select a quiet corner and dream away the livelong
day. The air is nerve-slackening. You feel perfectly at your ease. You can think of nothing
to apprehend--no incursion of your lady friends designing to reason with the proprietor and
perhaps hold a prayer-meeting on the sidewalk; no incursion of the police, no row. Everybody
is placable and quiet--preserves indeed a sort of deferential attitude toward his neighbor--and
not only when he comes in, but again when he goes out, salutes the dame de comptoir--the lady
superintendent, that is (not unfrequently the wife of the proprietor)--who sits enthroned in
a little boxlike place superintending the delivery of drinks and making change. This matter
of saluting, as the reader knows, is a deference which every Frenchman considers due to the
great man or woman who, at the particular time of his entrance or exit, may chance to be in
a particular apartment; and in the case of cafés, if the dame de comptoir were not in her place,
he would salute the guests; and if there were but one guest, that one would be expected to
return the salute, it being meant for him alone.

Sanctified in this way by the presence of a lady, the café does not seem such a very bad place;
and it isn't. Even the estaminets and brasseries, which are but second-rate cafés, and the
ordinary wine-shops, still lower in the scale, in which the coachman and commissionnaire regale
themselves, taking a canon across the counter in the morning and playing a game of cards in
the back shop at night, are by no means the hideous gulping-down places in which our land abounds.
Drinking in public places in France is not so completely separated from all respectability
and refinement as it is with us. It involves none of that horrid nomenclature, "slings," "punches,"
"cocktails," "smashes," which carry with them all the terror and awfulness of oaths. The French
have pretty names for drinks, as well as a rather pretty, poetic way of alluding to a man's
inebriation. "He is a little gray;" "He has a little corner in his head;" "He is in a condition
for beating the wall;" "He is heading pins," etc., etc., are favorite expressions. Of course,
the delicacy or waggishness with which we allude to an evil is no excuse for it, but the French
have little absolute drunkenness to excuse. They are emphatically a sober people (being a good
deal like intoxicated Yankees or Dutchmen, anyway), and even in their cups neither rude nor
quarrelsome. Of the few French people I ever saw drunk (except peasants), all were begging
pardon of the owners of imaginary toes, and making various other polite concessions to the
people whom they believed to be around them. And yet they drink prodigiously. The customary
allowance of every man who can afford it is a pint of claret at meals, themselves prefaced
generally speaking by an appetizer, and supplemented almost invariably by a cup of coffee and
cognac. He would be quite likely also in the course of the day to assist in the destruction
of a bottle of champagne (almost certain to do so if a bon vivant), and during the afternoon
and evening to drink several glasses of beer, perhaps taking a "night-cap" of hot wine before
going to bed. All this would not necessarily make him drunk, but continued day by day it keeps
him under the influence of a continual stimulus, which in time becomes indispensable and contributes
to form the Hotspur character of which we hear so much. Strange it should not make drunkards
outright, but it does not seem to produce that effect; and Paris, with all its luxuries in
drink, is not a drunken city. You see more drunken people in a week in New York than in a year
in Paris, and more people who, if not drunk, are unmistakable topers. They drink hard in Brittany
(it is no unusual thing there to see a woman drunk), and so too in the manufacturing places
of Normandy and other parts of France, especially those that produce no wine; and Champney,
who doubtless studied from life, painted at Ecouen the picture of an old peasant-woman hauling
her husband home in a hand-cart dead drunk; but, for all that, the French are emphatically
a sober people, either constitutionally or from climatic or other reasons: I do not pretend
to say which.

On the whole, therefore, the picture of the French cafés is a pleasant one, and it is a pity
the bar-rooms of America and the gin-shops of England were not more like them. They are a compromise,
it is true, but that is better than the prohibitionist's vain fight.

Tortoni's, the last survivor of whose founders died only the other day, has its historical
reminiscences. Therein is to be found the salon, known as the "blue salon," once hallowed by
the occupancy of M. de Talleyrand. The window is still pointed out at which the eminent diplomatist
used to sit surveying the crowds that thronged the Boulevards, with his usual fine and cynical
smile, like a Mephistopheles of the nineteenth century. A little later, and one has a vision
of a young man of short stature, elegantly dressed, who every day or two rides up to door or
window, springs from his horse, calls for a particular kind of ice, which he imbibes with a
sort of nervous haste, and then disappears. This little dandy, always in a hurry, alert, nervous
and sharp-eyed, is a future ruler of the nation: it is M. Thiers. Around Tortoni's there hovers
too the souvenir of that other gracious and graceful dandy, king of fashion in his day, the
count D'Orsay. It was at a breakfast at Tortoni's that the preliminaries were arranged for
the famous duel wherein D'Orsay appeared as the champion of the Virgin Mary. Some irreverent
jester having made some slighting remark respecting the Virgin, D'Orsay took the matter up
and called the speaker to account. "For," said the count, "the Virgin is a woman, and as such
ought not to be slandered with impunity."

The cafés chantants of Paris form a division by themselves. The most noted of these is the
Eldorado, which has given more than one prominent performer to the Parisian stage--Theresa,
who, once a dishwasher in a hotel, left her soap-suds and mop to become a Parisian celebrity,
the instructress of a princess, and now a really talented comic actress and bouffe singer;
Judic and Theo, the rival beauties of the Opera Bouffe; and lively little Boumaine, now one
of the stars of the Variétés. The career of Madame Theo has been a strange one. She was originally
a failure at the Eldorado, and used to cry her eyes out behind the scenes at her own ill-success.
Finally, Offenbach discovered her and wrote for her his Jolie Parfumeuse. The little beauty
cut off her hair, put on a blonde wig, and bloomed out a full-blown genius. Without voice,
without talent, by dint of a lovely figure, a face of babyish prettiness and an innocent way
of uttering speeches of atrocious naughtiness, she has become one of the theatrical successes
of the hour, has brought back a harvest of diamonds from her recent Russian trip, and will
probably retire into private life with a fortune before she is thirty.

Pass to the Café Anglais, that hypocrite of the Boulevards, whitewashed, decent, outwardly
respectable, yet whose windows are ablaze all night long in the Carnival season, and whose
latest legend is the tradition of "Big 16." "Big 16" is a private cabinet in the entresol,
numbered after the fashion that has given it its title, and famed as being the scene of the
orgies of the young duke de Grammont-Caderousse, that maddest of the mad viveurs of the Second
Empire, and his friend the prince of Orange. The latter still maintains his reputation in Paris
as the most dissipated of European princes. Twice has he essayed to win the hand of an English
princess, or rather his high-minded and virtuous mother made the effort in his behalf, but
neither his prospective heirship to the crown of Holland nor his Protestantism has availed
to gain for him a royal English bride. He is known among the society that he most affects by
the sobriquet of Citron (Lemon), bestowed upon him by the duke de Grammont-Caderousse at one
of the little suppers of the day. The duke continued to call the prince Monseigneur, to which
His Royal Highness objected, declaring that he wished all formality to be laid aside respecting
his birth and title.

"Is that so?" cried the duke gayly. "Then, Citron, pass me the cheese."

And the nickname has survived the duke who gave it and the government under which it was given.
Sometimes, after one of the masked balls, a pink domino at the Café Americain will call for
champagne, with the announcement, "M. Citron pays," without for a moment imagining that she
is speaking of the heir to a throne.

To take a final survey, let us enter the Café de la Paix, the most imperial, cosmopolitan and
stylish of cafés. That well-preserved man sitting by himself is playing solitaire--a group
of one. That white-haired old gentleman sitting in the alcove yonder is drinking sweetened
water--surely not a beverage calculated to pollute the palate. Those round-headed men, whose
bald pates are fringed with gray, are now settling up their score. It is only a franc or two,
but each one pays his share, "treating" not being common. You are often asked to drink, and
left to pay for what you drink--an arrangement greatly to be preferred, provided it be understood.
That stylish-looking man reading the Figaro is drinking a green chartreuse, and every time
he stoops to sip from the little goblet that stands before him, his huge moustache, folding
over it, looks like two great black wings. That pale-faced man is probably a professor. He
has just sweetened his coffee, and is now pocketing the lumps of sugar remaining over in the
little dish (considered a perfectly proper thing to do); and that stripling from the province,
he is taking account of everything--the velvet, marble, silver, glass, the flowers, vases,
pictured panels, the waiters in their white aprons, the water-bottles in which the ice is frozen
by artificial process, the crinkle-crankle, gilding, glare, the plants in the doorway and the
queen behind her box.

Looking out upon the sidewalk, all the world is passing by--Guadeloupe negroes with white servants
at their heels; artillerymen with dangling sabres; cocottes, Englishmen, zouaves; washerwomen
and their daughters carrying skirts suspended from the tops of poles; old men with goggles
and young men with canes and great show of cuffs; multitudes of distinguished-looking people,
Français à l'outrance; people with beaked noses and olive complexions; clerks and shop-girls,
gamins and bonnes; policemen of inferior stature, who though armed with swords, look incapable
of dealing with desperate men; laborers in blouses and old ladies in caps.

Sitting once in front of the Café de la Paix at five o'clock in the afternoon, and looking
through a line of promenaders such as that, I counted two hundred 'busses, private carriages
and hacks, most (or many at least) of whose occupants were presumably bent on pleasure, to
sixteen carts and other vehicles devoted exclusively to business--eight of which, by the way,
were hand-carts. Oh the gay and happy town! I thought. Where the turn-outs bear such a proportion
to the drays, no wonder cafés thrive, exquisite drinks are served, and a corky people, who
have a happy faculty, as illustrated by the late war, of coming up the quicker the farther
they are pressed down, find the thing enjoyable.

A café-front indeed is better than an omnibus-top for studying Paris, and the café itself is
a club for everybody. People go to it to gossip and regale themselves, play games, talk politics,
read the newspapers, write letters, transact business it may be, sit, think, dream, and rest
themselves. To the Anglo-Saxon the life that is led in it seems a good deal like walking about
in a botanical garden during the day and sleeping in an observatory at night--a decidedly artificial
existence; but so long as we must drink or be amused at all, we shall do well to study the
ways of the French. They alone know how to eat and drink properly and amuse themselves in a
rational way.

GILMAN C. FISHER.

FOG.

    Light silken curtain, colorless and soft,
    Dreamlike before me floating! what abides
          Behind thy pearly veil's
          Opaque, mysterious woof?

    Where sleek red kine, and dappled, crunch day-long
    Thick, luscious blades and purple clover-heads,
          Nigh me I still can mark
          Cool fields of beaded grass.

    No more; for on the rim of the globed world
    I seem to stand and stare at nothingness.
          But songs of unseen birds
          And tranquil roll of waves

    Bring sweet assurance of continuous life
    Beyond this silvery cloud. Fantastic dreams,
          Of tissue subtler still
          Than the wreathed fog, arise,

    And cheat my brain with airy vanishings
    And mystic glories of the world beyond.
          A whole enchanted town
          Thy baffling folds conceal--

    An Orient town, with slender-steepled mosques,
    Turret from turret springing, dome from dome,
          Fretted with burning stones,
          And trellised with red gold.

    Through spacious streets, where running waters flow,
    Sun-screened by fruit trees and the broad-leaved palm,
          Past the gay-decked bazaars,
          Walk turbaned, dark-eyed men.

    Hark! you can hear the many murmuring tongues,
    While loud the merchants vaunt their gorgeous wares.
          The sultry air is spiced
          With fragrance of rich gums,

    And through the lattice high in yon dead wall,
    See where, unveiled, an arch, young, dimpled face,
          Flushed like a musky peach,
          Peers down upon the mart!

    From her dark, ringleted and bird-poised head
    She hath cast back the milk-white silken veil:
          'Midst the blank blackness there
          She blossoms like a rose.

    Beckons she not with those bright, full-orbed eyes,
    And open arms that like twin moonbeams gleam?
          Behold her smile on me
          With honeyed, scarlet lips!

    Divine Scheherazade! I am thine.
    I come! I come!--Hark! from some far-off mosque
          The shrill muezzin calls
          The hour of silent prayer,

    And from the lattice he hath scared my love.
    The lattice vanisheth itself--the street,
          The mart, the Orient town;
          Only through still, soft air

    That cry is yet prolonged. I wake to hear
    The distant fog-horn peal: before mine eyes
          Stands the white wall of mist,
          Blending with vaporous skies.

    Elusive gossamer, impervious
    Even to the mighty sun-god's keen red shafts!
          With what a jealous art
          Thy secret thou dost guard!

    Well do I know deep in thine inmost folds,
    Within an opal hollow, there abides
          The lady of the mist,
          The Undine of the air--

    A slender, winged, ethereal, lily form,
    Dove-eyed, with fair, free-floating, pearl-wreathed hair,
          In waving raiment swathed
          Of changing, irised hues.

    Where her feet, rosy as a shell, have grazed
    The freshened grass, a richer emerald glows:
          Into each flower-cup
          Her cool dews she distils.

    She knows the tops of jagged mountain-peaks,
    She knows the green soft hollows of their sides,
          And unafraid she floats
          O'er the vast-circled seas.

    She loves to bask within the moon's wan beams,
    Lying, night-long, upon the moist, dark earth,
          And leave her seeded pearls
          With morning on the grass.

    Ah! that athwart these dim, gray outer courts
    Of her fantastic palace I might pass,
          And reach the inmost shrine
          Of her chaste solitude,

    And feel her cool and dewy fingers press
    My mortal-fevered brow, while in my heart
          She poured with tender love
          Her healing Lethe-balm!

    See! the close curtain moves, the spell dissolves!
    Slowly it lifts: the dazzling sunshine streams
          Upon a newborn world
          And laughing summer seas.

    Swift, snowy-breasted sandbirds twittering glance
    Through crystal air. On the horizon's marge,
          Like a huge purple wraith,
          The dusky fog retreats.

    EMMA LAZARUS.

THE MARQUIS OF LOSSIE.

BY GEORGE MACDONALD, AUTHOR OF "MALCOLM." That splendor regard him! From a social point of
view there was of course little presumption in it. But if it were! I will go--home." Ye see
we a' ken we hae dune wrang, but we haena' a' confessed.

"To-morrow, then?"

"Yes. The conviction had been strengthening in her that he was not what he seemed, and she
regarded him now with a vague awe.

[TO BE CONTINUED.]

CHÂTEAU COURANCE.

During the earlier years of the reign of Napoleon III., Fontainebleau was a favorite resort
of the emperor and the court, and consequently was much frequented by good republicans from
this democratic land of freedom. When, in the later time, De Morny's speculation at Biarritz
called the court to the seaside, the sightseeing fraternity followed. Fontainebleau was deserted,
and has since been almost unknown to Americans, few caring to crowd into the little cabarets
save the faithful community of artists, who still go there to study the grand old trees of
the finest forest in France. But among the elder generation of our fellow-citizens who have
"done the Continent" there must be many who, in the palmy days of Fontainebleau, have seen
the imperial hunt winding through the greenwood aisles in much magnificence of environment,
and heard the blare of horn and bay of hound dying away in the distance as the splendid assembly
pursued the gorgeous if somewhat theatrical and spiritless pleasures of the chase. It may have
happened on such an occasion that an early return of the green-and-gold-clad cortége has indicated
a failure of the day's sport, and the word "Courance" has passed from lip to lip as explaining
the disappointment. And then, perhaps, Madame Busque, the polite mistress of the Hôtel du Sol,
has communicated the information that the obstinate pig of a stag had the stupidity to run
toward Le Courance, and the chase was therefore abandoned. Why? Mais, because Le Courance is
an impenetrable wilderness, and besides--this with significant shrug and gesture--besides,
one goes not there. Not His Majesty? No, not even His Majesty.

Continued inquiry may have elicited the fact that Château Courance, with its wide park, situated
some three leagues south-west from Fontainebleau, had once been a splendid feudal residence,
but was now supposed to be in ruins, having been abandoned and wholly closed to the world for
the greater part of a century. The resident artists, if appealed to, may have told of legends
heard among the foresters and peasantry of old-time tragedies, and of supernatural appearances
haunting the deserted place. They may have repeated, too, the gossip of the studios touching
rare and curious works of art, paintings by great masters, plate by Cellini and early Sèvres
porcelain lost to the world within the walls of the château. But as rumor, while giving these
details, also maintained that no human creature except a few faithful descendants of the household
had been even within the limits of the park for nearly a hundred years, the practical American
mind may not have found much in these tales worth remembering.

Attempts, however, have not been wanting to penetrate the mysteries surrounding Château Courance,
but it is believed that none ever met with success until a very recent period. The authorities
always interfered by virtue of a royal mandate, still on the statute-books of France, which
forbids any entry to the demesne of Courance without the express consent of the count or his
intendant. Furthermore, a superstitious dread of any approach to the place prevails among the
people, and this feeling has been strong enough to defeat the several secret explorations known
to have been undertaken.

Courance, then, remained but a name and a shadow for many and many a year, drifting slowly
back to the sole dominion of Nature and out of the very memory of mankind. But the late war,
sweeping over the land and destroying so much of old France, made a break at last in the barriers
surrounding the ancient demesne--not, indeed, by direct assault, as Fontainebleau and its neighborhood
were not in the line of the Prussian march, but by one of those little eddies of reaction by
which great movements affect distant currents of event.

Among the first to fly from Paris when the gates opened at the end of the war were the artists.
More hungry to feast their eyes than to satisfy physical cravings, many hastened to Fontainebleau,
content with Madame Busque's thin pottage if they could but spend their days among the trees.
Two American painters were of their number--Perry from Boston, and Johnston from Baltimore.
Belonging to the Can't-get-away Club, they had stood the siege manfully, and been very helpful
at our legation when the whole establishment was turned into a hospital. On receipt of the
fund from the United States for the relief of sufferers from the war, Minister Washburne appointed
these gentlemen on the sub-commission of distribution in the district of the Loiret. The active
and enthusiastic young men were instrumental in doing a vast amount of good, and were the recipients
of endless ovations of the gratitude which poured out in effusion at that time toward all bearing
the American name. It is impossible to overstate the hearty good-will entertained by all classes
and manifested on all occasions, an opportunity to do a service or afford a pleasure being
looked upon as a piece of enviable fortune.

Johnston was a connoisseur in bric-à-brac and mediæval art, his studio being head-quarters
for the students interested in such matters. He and his coterie had persuaded themselves that
a certain lost Velasquez could be traced to the possession of the Courance family, and he was
most anxious to visit the château in search of the picture. This and the natural curiosity
common to both artists made up motives of appeal too strong to be resisted, and they accordingly
allowed their wishes to become known in certain influential quarters. How the affair was managed
they never knew, and indeed never inquired, but in due time they received an invitation to
join a party coursing for hares in the wastes of La Pontoise, and this they understood as an
intimation that their desire to visit Courance was about to be gratified.

The old royal post-road from Paris to Lyons, passing through Fontainebleau, runs nearly due
south until it strikes the high banks of a small tributary of the Seine, when it turns south-west
and climbs the hills toward Nemours, the next post-town. These hills slope off westward to
the desert or waste of La Pontoise, one of those blister-scars, still to be seen in France,
left by the feudal system, which stripped the soil of the last grain of fertility and gave
nothing in return. La Pontoise was aforetime a grand estate, possessed by a branch of the Foix
family, the great ducal house of Nemours. Its farms wasted by the improvidence of the ancien
régime, its park and château destroyed by desperate peasantry during the frenzy of '93, there
remains nothing now but pine-barrens and furze-patches, with a pile of blackened ruins as a
monument of former glory and folly.

Between this sterile, uninhabitable solitude and the precipitous, broken ridge forming the
north-eastern boundary of the Loiret lies Courance. No road leads thitherward, no path approaches
its forgotten gate. The stream which formerly flowed past the entrance-lodge is dammed up by
the fallen bridge and spreads out in a broad morass.

To this uninviting neighborhood came the coursing-party at the time appointed. After a sufficiently
successful day's sport the American guests accepted an invitation to pass the night with the
mayor of Mont Plésis, the other gentlemen returning to Fontainebleau. Monsieur le Maire loitered
by the way until the last of the hunters had disappeared, and then struck off across country
toward Courance. Making such haste as the nature of the ground permitted, he directed his course
toward a tall chestnut tree, the outlying sentinel of a host of its brethren in the park. Arriving
beneath the tree, he dismounted, and was immediately addressed by an old man in peasant costume,
whom he presented as Monsieur Gambeau, the intendant of Courance. As the twilight was already
falling, the mayor hastened to depart, after cordially commending his charge to the care of
the intendant.

Their new host brought out a stout cob from the furze near by, and led the way south-westward.
After a silent ride of half a mile or more he dismounted, and, producing a lantern, carefully
piloted the horses over a heap of stones overgrown with briers, probably a fallen section of
wall giving entrance to the park. Then turning more to the west, they followed a sort of bridle-path
leading directly into dense forest, where the fading twilight was wholly obscured and the swinging
lantern afforded the only beacon to steer by. The close-growing trees impinged sharply on shins
and elbows, and overhanging boughs frequently occasioned still more serious encounters. Patience
and temper were nearly exhausted when a sudden glare shot out of the darkness, and the intendant
pulled up before an open door whence issued a blaze of light.

A man came from within to take the horses, and was introduced by the intendant as his son Émile
and the heir to his office. Émile had the same serious and reserved manner as his father, but
he showed more cordiality. He apologized for the poor appearance of the place, saying it had
never been more than a keeper's lodge, but that he had endeavored to make it comfortable for them.

The door opened immediately into a good-sized square room, with a wide fireplace occupying
half the farther side, having a great fire of logs and branches burning on the hearth. In the
middle of the floor stood a solid old oak table, whereon smoked a most inviting supper, served
in an incongruous array of quaint and curious dishes and antique vessels--fine glass, splendid
silver, broken delft, and translucent porcelain that drew a cry of admiration from the delighted
artists.

The intendant thawed out rapidly, warmed by the generous supper and perhaps an extra sip or
two of rare old Beaujolais. Allowing himself to be prompted by M. Gambeau junior, he entertained
his guests with many a tradition of the Courance family--their heroism in war, their wisdom
in peace, their conspicuous splendor at court, their kindness and liberality at home. As to
the château and its contents, he knew very little. It stood just as it had been left, with
all the appointments of a noble household and a full retinue, but he had never been through
the rooms to examine them, and now only entered the place twice a year to go through the form
of putting in order the private apartments of the last count, who had given orders that his
rooms should be kept ready for his return. There were pictures--yes, a great many pictures--but
all black, and some falling from the frames: those in the count's rooms were kept clean, however,
and were very pretty--truly, very fine.

The explorers were called early next morning by agreement, and after a breakfast corresponding
with the evening meal they were supplied with peasant costume--blue blouse, knit cap and cotton
trousers; and being further equipped with a lantern, hatchet and substantial lunch, they set
out for the château. The walk was a delightful scramble through the neglected old woods for
perhaps half a mile, when a seemingly impenetrable thicket barred the way. M. Gambeau said
this was the line of the ancient moat, and they must cut their way through or make a long détour
to the rear of the château, the side on which he usually approached. The hatchet was plied
vigorously, hands were scratched, clothes torn, many a fall taken and many a fight had with
the clinging vines, as they crawled and clambered through, and came out at a fallen wicket
in the wall of the courtyard, passing which Château Courance stood close before them.

With exclamations of surprise and pleasure they found, instead of the gray and mouldering ruin
they had pictured in expectation, a stately and beautiful mansion of white marble shining in
the morning sun, with every outline perfect and clear cut against the blue sky. It seemed for
a moment as if the life-scenes of a noble household might be called to animation there if the
awakening signal could but be given. But a second glance revealed the assaults of decay and
the work of Nature reclaiming that dominion which she concedes to man only for a time.

The artists subsequently described the place, as they then saw it, nearly as follows: "The
main building is of Pyrenean marble, of composite architecture, the openings of the first story
being square, while those of the second are pointed. It is perhaps two hundred feet deep, with
a front of one hundred feet, flanked by pointed towers and approached by a broad flight of
steps leading to a massive square pavilion. It is very rich in ornamented detail of cut stone,
all remaining in place and perfectly preserved. This M. Gambeau calls distinctively 'the new
house,' as it is supposed to be less than two hundred years old. It is connected by curtain
walls with the chapel on one side, and on the other with the old château, some of whose great
square towers, built of the red stone of the country, must be very ancient indeed. The façade
of 'the new house' fronts on a broad terrace, which descends ten or twelve feet to stone-paved
courtyards, the whole enclosed by moat and wall. This façade and terrace, as also the broad
steps leading to the paved courts, are decorated with statuary in profusion. The windows of
the second story have light, graceful balconies, hung up like festoons of flowers. Grotesque
gargoyles cling to every corner, and each projection and angle is turned to ornament in fine
designs of cut stone.

"All the sky-lines of this beautiful building are perfect, and the entire upper part looks
indeed like a 'new house,' so bright and fair does it remain. But the lower stories and the
adjoining grounds tell the story of desertion and decay. Over, around and through the entire
demesne climbs and twines and trails the veiling vegetation of a hundred years, filling the
arched doorways, screening the windows, hanging from the parapets, and covering the pavements
with a disguise of greenery, like a masque half hiding the face of a court beauty."

Finishing his sketch, Perry was about to run up the marble steps, but the intendant detained
him, politely but decidedly stating that this could not be permitted. "When M. le Comte descended
those steps he commanded that human creature should rest not the foot there until his return.
And no person has ever passed there, unless, possibly, himself."

"How himself? Has he ever returned, then?"

"Who knows? I have never seen him, at least; and I have no envy for that, comprehend well.
When one sees him 'tis time to make one's peace; and I hope my time has not yet come."

"This becomes interesting. There is a tradition, is there not?"

"One says it. When I was a child my grandfather came home from here one day very sad, very
silent, gave his keys to my father, sent for the curé. Behold, the end! What one said was that
he had seen M. le Comte. Also, my father. It is twenty-two years last day of Our Lady since
he returned home from here, cold, white and trembling, and put himself to arrange his affairs.
He said he was not ill, but the terrible whisper again agitated itself--'He has seen M. le
Comte!' He went to rest as usual, and rose not again. Bah! this is not agreeable, all this.
Let us go to the house."

Skirting the courtyards, the intendant led the way to the rear of the château, passing between
the moat and the grim old walls of the mediæval towers. Here the work of time was found to
be more noticeable: the gardens showed a strange confusion of fine and rare vegetation run
wild, mingled with intruding native growths; many of the wooden buildings, formerly the offices
of the household, had fallen to the ground; and the chapel, an offset from the "new house,"
was partly in ruins.

Lighting his lantern, M. Gambeau descended a narrow passage leading to the cellars. The exploration
of the interior may be narrated in the words of the adventurers:

"It was very dark, and at first we could see nothing, but presently the glimmer of the dim
lantern disclosed vast pillars and low arches of rough, unhewn stone, and in the aisles rows
of casks shrouded with cobwebs and half buried in dust.

"'These are the wine-vaults,' said M. Gambeau, endeavoring to throw light into the black recesses
of the crypts on either hand.

"Perry stepped aside and struck one of the casks with his stick, when, stumbling over the skid
on the floor, he brought the whole pile of tierces tumbling down in a heap of mould, rust and
dirt. Escaping from the smudge and smell of dead wood, we went up a few steps to another level
in the foundations, and came into the kitchens of the 'new house.' The main kitchen is a vaulted
chamber, divided by rows of pillars, the ceiling being perhaps twenty feet in the clear, and
the area of the entire floor thirty feet by fifty. At either end are stone platforms, something
like a blacksmith's forge, only much larger, and over these smoke-hoods are suspended, connected
with the cavernous chimneys. At each corner of these hearths are iron cranes hung with chains,
and between two of these cranes the intendant pointed out an indescribable mass of something
supposed to be a stag roasted whole--not at present a very toothsome-looking morsel. Dozens
of pots and kettles hang from the chains, and scores of pans and ovens stand in rows underneath.
Thickly scattered over the floor near these fireplaces are the bones of game and poultry, probably
dragged there by rats, though we did not encounter rat or mouse or any living thing within
the walls, and our friend tells us there has been no form of life in the château during his memory.

"The ascent from the kitchens is by an inclined plane, a broad roadway, up which the mammoth
triumphs of last-century culinary skill were hauled on trucks, several of which vehicles stand
near the foot of the way. The banquet-hall occupies nearly one-half the entire first floor
of the 'new house.' We entered this magnificent apartment at the lower end from a dark lobby,
and it seemed ablaze with light and color, though we presently noticed that only the ceiling
and upper half of the room were illuminated, the floor and furniture being in shadow and covered
with dust. On one side are six large windows opening on the terrace, the lower sashes overgrown
with vines and blocked up with accumulated rubbish, while the upper panes are comparatively
clean and clear. The ceiling is divided into panels by heavy carved and gilded mouldings, the
panels painted with mythological designs in the style of the seventeenth century. The early
morning sun lit up these splendors, making the white and gold and thousand bright tints shine
like the array of Solomon, while from the height of our heads to the tiles under foot the entire
area was covered with one monotonous coating of dark-gray dust.

"The other side of the room is nearly filled by the great fireplace and two doors, united in
one design of carved woodwork extending to the ceiling. At the upper end are also two doors,
and between these a raised dais overhung by a canopy of purple Utrecht velvet. Two tables extend
the whole length of the hall, while on the dais is a smaller table, with but six chairs. Two
of these chairs are very rich and curious, and stand in the centre facing the room--evidently
seats of honor. They are of ebony, wrought in the most intricate and bewildering patterns,
while each convolution and entanglement is followed and almost covered by a running vine of
inlaid gold wire.

"The other seats about the room are mostly tabourets, covered with Cordova leather, embossed
in gold and colors and tooled by hand in free arabesque designs. Two long tables extend through
the room, and a smaller one occupies the dais: these tables are literally 'boards'--heavy planks
jointed together resting on solid, richly-carved trestles, all black with age. They are apparently
covered with a full service for a grand banquet, and the intendant said they had never been
disturbed since they were prepared for a marriage-feast on the day when the château was deserted.

"Perry's quick eye first rested on a large piece of quaint and uncouth form in the centre of
the dais-table, which he at once said must be the masterpiece of the collection. Imagine my
surprise and disappointment on wiping off some of the dirt to find it nothing but coarse crockery,
somewhat resembling queensware, ornamented with blue enameled figures such as decorate old
preserve-jars at home. I said it looked to me like a foot-bath, but Perry insisted on examining
it, and, removing the cover, found the bottom was a silver plate with this inscription: 'Presented
by His Most Christian Majesty, Louis XIV., king of France and Navarre, to his devoted vassal
and servitor, Melun du Guesclin, Sieur de Courance, Dec. 25, 1714.' Perry declared he recognized
it as a veritable piece of that rare faïence made by Pierre Clerissy for the Grand Monarch
when he coined all his plate to pay the army in Flanders. The king subsequently gave most of
the set to Villars and his officers after the Peace of Utrecht. Perry has seen almost every
collection in Europe, and he says there are not fifty pieces of this ware in existence.

"For my part, I was more interested in the zephyr-glasses I found on this table of the early
Venetian manufacture, delicate and graceful as the flacons of Fairyland. There are imitations
of this exquisite glass now made, but there were none a hundred years ago, and these are unquestionably
genuine. A remarkable chalice also attracted our notice, and we decided it to be either the
bridal or the christening-cup of the Courance family. It is a mass of solid silver, about fourteen
inches high, on a base of ebony and pearl: it is wrought out of block silver in the Genoese
method, and is designed in deep panels divided by wreathed columns: these panels are covered
with inscriptions, seemingly of names and dates, most of them illegible--'Robillard Puyraveau
du Guesclin, 1602,' being the earliest we could make out. We found several varieties, or, as
Perry says, 'classes,' of porcelain--beautiful plates of Sèvres, painted in the most charming
designs by masters to us unknown--and of the different sorts of this ware there must be several
hundred pieces, each a gem of price to-day.

"Of course we flew from one thing to another, and did not wait upon any order of our going
about, nor did we examine a tenth part of the treasures on the tables: but it strikes me now
that the wealth in silver alone there must be simply enormous. The intendant could tell us
nothing positive, and everything is so black and encrusted with dust that we could not see
with certainty: but it is probable that what appears to be family plate, literally covering
these tables, is the Courance heirloom silver. Much of it is very old, as shown by the antique
designs and the marks of wear. Near the centre of one of the long tables we cleared up eighteen
or twenty beautiful pieces of the Italian school established in Paris under the patronage of
Francis I., and on the dais-table a full set, the exquisite work of the Antwerp smiths, dated 1598.

"We had no means for brushing off the pictures, and M. Gambeau was not in the least inclined
to help us, being not at all pleased with our disturbing the dust of ages so freely. However,
the walls are in a good state, and we could see very well that between the windows they are
decorated by Boucher with the elaborate and formal panels of Paris in his time. At the lower
end of the room is a very large and magnificent fruit-and flower-piece by Jan van Huysum of
Amsterdam. On each side of the dais are grand entrances from the main hall of the 'new house,'
but the floor is broken up at this end of the salon, probably by rats, and rather than risk
a fall we returned by the kitchen passage.

"Crossing under the grand stairway, we tumbled through a wood-closet into the drawing-room,
a splendid apartment on the first floor of the 'new house,' corresponding to the banquet-salon,
only that the side wall, instead of having windows, is penetrated by three wide arches opening
into a suite of state apartments extending through the old château. The most noticeable things
in these rooms are the hangings, arranged apparently in chronological series, beginning with
the quaint and curious needlework covering the bare stone walls of the red tower, and continuing
in regular order through the several rooms, to the masterpieces of Lebrun and Mignard. Some
of them have fallen, and lie in mouldering heaps on the floor, but most of them are still in
place, and in none of the royal palaces I have visited is the progress of the art of tapestry
so fully illustrated as here. We could have spent the day with delight in comparing the different
specimens, but our half-suffocated guide protested so decidedly against our dust-raising that
we had to desist long before we wanted to. The furniture of these rooms is also arranged in
historic order, but of course the succession is not so marked as in the case of the tapestries;
still, between the rude black wooden settles of the earliest period and the gilded and brocaded
fauteuils of the Louis Quatorze salon the contrast is sufficiently striking. The splendors
of the great drawing-room are still fresh: the white enamel is brilliant, the ormolu untarnished,
and the rich upholstery gorgeous as when first received from Paris. A good American 'spring
cleaning' would put this, and indeed most of the apartments, in condition for immediate occupancy.

"The greater number of the pictures are family portraits, like those of any other gallery of
the same sort, but in the modern rooms are several examples of Flemish masters of great interest
and value. A treck-schuyt, with market-women, by Albert Cuyp, quite characteristic of that
artist and his school, a tavern fireside by Ostade, and two of Quintin Matsys' studies of single
figures, are the most important.

"I must not omit to mention a remarkable old cabinet in one of these state rooms, which Perry
recognized as a specimen of Bruges carving of the fifteenth century. It is a very curious and
wonderfully ingenious piece of work, the ornamentation appearing at first like a rather confused
grouping of flowers and fruit cut in high relief, but seen at the proper angle rich and beautiful
compositions are discovered of the most intricate and difficult character--processions of cupids,
leading leopards or tugging at great wains; children at play, chasing each other through mazes
of vines; juvenile lovers, sentimentalizing; and a hundred pretty conceits, all formed by the
outlines of the fruit and flowers first seen. Each figure is perfectly represented, and each
graceful and delicate fancy is carried out with marvellous skill.

"The grand drawing-room opens in the main hall, which occupies the entire central part of the
'new house.' It is about forty feet in width by two hundred in depth, and has the roof of the
château for its ceiling. At one end is the great portal, with a high-arched window over it:
at the other is the wide and beautiful staircase, leading to a gallery which on either side
of the hall gives access to the second floor of the building. The walls are divided into panels
by the columns and brackets supporting the gallery, and these panels are ornamented alternately
by trophies of arms and entire suits of armor, all rusted. A few tattered banners still depend
from the gallery, but most that was perishable in the hall has succumbed to time and the weather.
The intendant said that within his time a violent hailstorm had broken some of the panes in
the arched window, since when the birds, the rains and the snows have come in and done much
damage in the old hall.

"On the second floor, over the banquet-room, are the private apartments of the last count,
and over the drawing-room are the state chambers. Of these the suites in the front of the house
have the royal arms of France over the entrance--an indication that they were once occupied
by royalty. These rooms are the only ones in the château furnished with carpets. The hangings
and upholstery were originally white velvet and white silk throughout. They are no longer white,
though comparatively clean and well preserved; but the effect when these abundant draperies
were fresh and bright must have been superb. We surmised that these were intended for the bridal
apartments, but M. Gambeau could not support our conjectures with any positive information.
The bed is really a work of art, canopied and covered with white satin, over which is the dower
of a princess in exquisite point lace. The pillow-slips and centre-piece of the coverlet are
perfect gems--the richest and most lovely lace I ever saw.

"Before entering the count's rooms M. Gambeau produced a brush and removed some of the dust
with which we were thickly covered, and on opening the door we were surprised at the brilliant
cleanliness of the place. The old man took much credit to himself, informing us that the rooms
were always kept in order, the late count's instructions having been that they should be maintained
just as he had left them, ready for occupancy when he returned. The furniture is plain, the
only valuable things in the rooms being a collection of French pictures of the last century,
selected with good taste and judgment. There are several battle-pieces by Gerard Lairesse,
in one of which, a dashing cavalry-charge, the Courance banner leads the van. Boucher has two
landscapes, scenes in the park according to M. Gambeau--very careful, faithful works; and there
are several large pictures by Vien, similar to his suburban studies in the Louvre. At the foot
of the bed is an older painting, probably by Joseph Imbert, the subject being the Virgin and
Child, treated quite in his manner.

"On a table in the dressing-room are nearly a dozen swords, some of them very rich and splendid.
One in particular, an elegant, dainty dress-rapier, is fairly encrusted with gems and jewelry.
On the chairs, scattered about the room, a courtier's wardrobe of the utmost magnificence lies
as if thrown down in confusion--silks, velvets, laces and embroideries, collars and chains
set with precious stones, orders and decorations blazing with diamonds--a piled-up profusion
indeed of all the luxurious and costly appointments of a favorite at the most gorgeous and
extravagant court in Europe.

"We took an al-fresco lunch in the court, provided beforehand by the intendant, and then returned
through the entire range of buildings to the chapel. Our old friend failed us here. He had
never been in the chapel, and declined to accompany us farther than the entrance. We had reserved
the chapel until the afternoon, thinking it would prove the richest treasury of the château,
studio-rumors placing here a collection of original old masters. But we were grievously disappointed,
finding nothing but black ruin and decay. The roof over the chancel is entirely open to the
sky, and a wide-yawning crack extends down the rear wall to the ground, as if a lightning-stroke
had riven it asunder. The canvas of the altar-piece has fallen like a covering over the altar,
screening and preserving it, so that its beautiful marble and alabaster sculptures still retain
their integrity; but the picture itself crumbled to pieces as we touched it, and the other
paintings, of which there are a great number, are all in much the same state--black, defaced
and destroyed beyond recognition or hope of restoration. If there are originals of Salvator
Rosa, Rubens or Rembrandt here, they are lost to the world for ever."

       *       *       *       *       *

The foregoing description has been summarized from letters and statements of the artist visitors.
The following sketch is from the same sources, collated with popular tradition and hints obtained
from historic researches. Partly narrative, partly legend and partly surmise, it gives the
story of Château Courance as nearly as it will probably ever be known.

Early in the eighteenth century the estates of Courance came into the possession of Raoul Boismonard
du Guesclin, a minor, probably then very young. He apparently resided in Paris, and may have
seen the sunset glories of the court of Louis the Great. At all events, not long after the
death of the Grand Monarch the youthful Du Guesclin accompanied the equally youthful Louis
XV. on that journey to Lorraine which was terminated so abruptly at Metz by the almost fatal
illness of the king. Later, he was in personal attendance on his royal friend during Marshal
Saxe's splendid campaign, and at Fontenoy proved himself a worthy descendant of his ancestor,
the great constable of France. The idle life of a luxurious court, growing more and more effeminate
in the long years of peace that followed Fontenoy, seems to have ill suited this scion of the
Courance family, ever in history a race of soldiers, men of high spirit and stirring temper.
With many other gentlemen of France he espoused as a volunteer the cause of Maria Theresa.
It is probable that most of his active life was passed in the Austrian service, as he won distinguished
honors and was a chief of cavalry in the Seven Years' War. Home interests were not neglected,
however, as the Courance estates were improved under his management, while the neighboring
domains were drifting to ruin. It appears also that during his last campaigns he adopted into
his military family the younger son of an old Courance neighbor, Henri d'Armagnac de Foix,
a cadet of the house of Pontoise.

After the Peace of Hubertsburg the count returned to France, entrusted, it is supposed, with
a mission respecting a matrimonial alliance between France and Austria, which was afterward
accomplished in the marriage of the archduchess Marie Antoinette and the dauphin. Louis XV.
received the companion of his youth with great cordiality and honor. At a court audience the
sovereign distinguished the soldier by removing the royal sword and scarf and with his own
hands hanging the splendid guerdon over the shoulders of his subject and friend.

Leaving his protégé, D'Armagnac de Foix, in charge of affairs in Paris, the count hastened
to Courance, where his neighbors hailed his arrival with every demonstration of welcome. Fêtes,
hunting-parties, excursions, balls and banquets were given for his entertainment, and all the
families of the Loiret joined in lionizing the brilliant chef d'escadron, heroes being a rarity
in France during those piping times of peace.

Among these old and new friends the count met Madame Chiron de la Peyronie, relict of Admiral
Chiron of the Grand Monarch's navy. This lady resided with her son and daughter near what was
then the pretty village of La Pontoise. Her children were making their début in the informal
society of the country-side, and their grace, beauty and guileless charms were heralded to
the general before they were permitted to take part in the festivities incident to his return.
A fox-hunt in the Forest of Fontainebleau was the occasion of their first meeting. Mademoiselle
de la Peyronie and her brother, magnificently mounted, dashed up to the rendezvous at a gallop,
making it the goal of a merry race. With glowing cheeks and sparkling eyes the young equestrian
presented a very charming picture of maidenly loveliness. From the moment of her first appearance
the count was fascinated, and during a long day's chase he scarcely left her bridle-rein. The
next day he visited the family, and thereafter sought the young lady's presence with the frankest
disregard of propriety. When remonstrated with for such inconsiderate devotion, the straightforward
soldier settled the matter by immediately galloping over to La Pontoise and demanding of Madame
de la Peyronie the hand of her daughter in marriage.

How far the widow should be held responsible for the events which followed can never be known.
She was doubtless flattered by the brilliant offer, and perhaps overborne by the impetuous
ardor of a suitor accustomed to regard obstacles and opposition only as something to be conquered.
But she knew her daughter's heart was already engaged, and although marriage alliances were
usually made by parents without reference to the bride's inclinations or opinions, the custom
can hardly be held to exculpate the mother in this case.

The Pontoise family having fallen into poverty, Henri d'Armagnac de Foix had been educated
by the parish curé, and when tutors came from Nemours to the children of Madame de la Peyronie
the young Henri had shared their studies, passing parts of several days in each week with them
at their house. Growing up together, the three became inseparable friends until, in course
of years, Chiron began to find his part in the companionship somewhat de trop. That Henri and
Thérèse should become lovers was so natural that the families on each side tacitly sanctioned
the relation without any formal recognition. The old admiral had left a fair dot for his daughter,
and on the other hand the De Foix, though impoverished, belonged to the ducal house of Nemours
and ranked among the highest of the noblesse; so the match was not unsuitable, and all friends
were probably satisfied. But there was no contract or ceremony of betrothal, as the lovers
were still very young when Henri went away to the wars, he being at the time scarce twenty
years of age. When, therefore, Thérèse's hand was demanded by the count de Courance, her mother
was not deterred from giving her consent by any implied obligation to the youthful heir of
La Pontoise. Who could deny the suit of the distinguished soldier, holder of the largest and
richest estates in the Loiret, the personal friend of the king? Certainly not Madame de la
Peyronie. She surrendered at discretion, the betrothal took place at once, and the marriage
was appointed for the earliest possible day, the magnificent preparations for the event being
the only occasion for delay.

Artists and artisans were brought from Paris, Château Courance was converted for the time into
a busy workshop, the neighborhood thrown into a fever of excitement, and the work of making
ready for the wedding was urged forward with the vigor of a military campaign. The general
spent his days between Courance, where he directed the rehabilitation of the château, and La
Pontoise, where he became the most devoted of cavaliers.

Mademoiselle de la Peyronie must have been dazzled by her brilliant conquest, and the sincere
love of the truly noble man, the modest hero and splendid gentleman, lavished upon her every
hour, could not fail to move at least her gratitude and esteem. But as the days flew by the
young girl paled and drooped, and when the brief period of betrothal drew toward a close the
mother's ingenuity must have been taxed to find excuses for the wayward moods and manifest
misery of her unhappy child. She fell into melancholy, and sought in solitude opportunity for
constant tears. Her favorite resort was a hill overlooking the road to Fontainebleau and Paris,
and here she would sit for hours, gazing steadily toward the north, as if expecting some one
who never came.

All too soon the wedding-day arrived. From every direction came to Courance, where the ceremony
was to be performed in the chapel, the great families of the Loiret--a more distinguished assembly
of the aristocracy of France than could have been gathered elsewhere beyond the limits of Paris
and the court. Throngs of lovely dames and gallant gentlemen greeted the arrival of the bridal-party
from La Pontoise, and if the shrinking bride attracted attention, her emotion was attributed
to maiden shyness, none dreaming that a desperate terror was shaking that harassed heart.

At noon the preliminary observances were concluded, the assembly moved to the chapel, and the
bishop of Nemours advanced to the altar to unite Raoul Boismonard du Guesclin and Thérèse Chiron
de la Peyronie in the holy bonds of wedlock. The bridal pair knelt before him, the solemn office
of the Church began, when the sharp ring of a horse's hoof struck the stones of the courtyard,
and the breathless hush of the sacred place was broken as the betrayed lover burst into the chapel.

With an agonizing cry the bride flew to his arms, and, moved by an instinctive impulse, he
turned to bear his beloved away. One instant the count stood fast, clutching the hilt of a
dainty rapier at his side, the gift of the king. The next that delicate blade flashed from
its jewelled sheath, drove through the body of Henri de Foix, and pierced to the heart the
unhappy girl clinging to his breast.

The wedding-guests scattered in consternation; the friends of the murdered lovers took up their
dead and departed; the master of Courance summarily dismissed every living creature from the
place, instructed the intendant to close the château, and at nightfall he too left his home,
to return no more. His final command, made imperative and solemn, was that no human being should
ever be permitted to come within the walls of the park.

From Paris he sent back an express bearing a royal mandate repeating and confirming his injunction
prohibiting entry to Courance. Then passed into oblivion Raoul Boismonard du Guesclin, count
de Courance. The last descendant of the warlike constable, the only representative of a long
line of soldiers and statesmen, closed his life in impenetrable obscurity, and with him one
of the great historic families of the realm disappears from the annals of France.

JOHN V. SEARS.

THE MARSH.

    Safely moored on the dappled water,
      The broad green lily-pads dip and sway,
    While like a skipper a gray frog rides
      The biggest leaf in the tiny bay.

    Merrily leap the brown-cheeked waves
      To seize the sunlight's liberal gold,
    Which strays and wanders among the reeds,
      And on the stones of the beach is rolled.

    O'er marish meadows, and far beyond,
      Silken and green or velvety gray,
    Tufted grasses with shifting colors
      In the wholesome north wind toss and play.

    Lonely and sad, on the sea of green
      The cardinal-flower a lighthouse stands,
    A scarlet blaze in the morning sun
      To guide the honey-bees' toiling bands.

    What was it for, this flower's beauty,
      Its royal color's marvellous glow,
    Not, like a good deed, still rejoicing
      The soul that grew it, though no one know?

    All unconscious, only a flower,
      Life without zest, and death without thought,
    Lost as a stone to the sweet deep pleasure
      Its scarlet wonder to me has brought.

    Has it, I ponder, no sense of pleasing,
      No least estate in the world of joy?
    Have the leaf and the grasses no conscious sense
      Of what they give us--no want or cloy?

    Not so unlike us. The words that weight us
      With keenest sorrow and longest pain
    Fall oft from lips that rest unconscious
      If that they give us be loss or gain.

    Do I only have power to fill me
      From sun and flower with joy intense?
    Has yon cold frog on his lonely leaf
      No lower share through a duller sense?

    Think you the ladies he woos are sought
      For form or color or beauty's sake?--
    That, touched with sorrow, he mourns to-day
      Some mottled Helen beneath the lake?

    Why should fret us this constant riddle,
      To know if Nature be kind or harsh
    To the pensive frog on his green-ribbed raft,
      The scarlet queen of the lonely marsh?

    Haply, in thought-spheres far above us
      Some may watch us with doubts like ours,
    Asking if we have wit or reason,
      Asking if pain or joy be ours.

    But does it vex me, this endless riddle
      I toss about in my helpless brain,
    To know if life be worth the having,
      If just mere being be any gain?

    Scarce can I answer. Something surely
      The thought has brought me this summer morn--
    Something for me in life were missing
      If frog and flower had ne'er been born.

    S. WEIR MITCHELL.

IN A RUSSIAN "TRAKTEER."

We have it on the authority of no less a personage than Charles the Bold of Burgundy (the Charles
of Quentin Durward, at least) that "never was Englishman who loved a dry-lipped bargain;" and
the same thing may safely be said of the modern Russian. But although the trakteer (or coffee-house,
as we should call it) undoubtedly witnesses many keen trials of commercial fence, this is very
far from being its only use. What the Agora was to the Athenian, what the Forum was to the
Roman, what the "tea-house" still is to the "heathen Chinee" and the "ice-house" to the West
Indian,--all this, and more, the trakteer is to the Russian. It is his dining-saloon, his drinking-bar,
his news-room (when he happens to be able to read), his place of meeting with his friends;
and, in a word, his place of resort for any and every purpose.

In such a place the groups of figures are diverse enough to satisfy the most exacting "painter
from life," and the dialogue is often far more entertaining (which is not saying much) than
that of many a popular vaudeville. Indeed, a dramatist on the lookout for a bit of "comic business"
not "adapted from the French" could not do better than drop into a trakteer in Moscow--or,
better still, Kazan--and make good use of his eyes and his notebook for twenty minutes or half
an hour.

Let us suppose our explorer to be strolling along the narrow, tortuous streets of the Kitai-Gorod
(Chinese Town) at Moscow on a fine winter day, with the crisp snow crackling under foot, and
the clear, bright, frosty sky over head. Away he goes, past painted houses and staring signs
and gilded church-towers--past dark, narrow shop-doors like exaggerated rat-traps, with a keen,
well-whiskered tenant peering watchfully out of each--past clamorous groups of blue-frocked,
red-girdled cabmen--past sheepskin-clad beggars, each with his little tablet stamped with a
gilt cross to show that the alms bestowed are to be devoted to the building of some apocryphal
church, probably of the same kind as that spoken of by Petroleum V. Nasby: "The proceeds air
to be devoted entirely to the 'church'--which is me."

At length, after many turnings and windings, he comes out upon the vast open space of the Krasnaya
Ploshtchad (Red Plain), with the statues of Minin and Pojarski on his right, and on his left
the cluster of many-colored domes that crown the fantastic church of Vasili the Blessed, while
right in front of him rise the red-turreted wall of the Kremlin and the tall spear-pointed
tower of the "Gate of Salvation." And now, being by this time somewhat fatigued by the exertion
of a prolonged tramp in a heavy fur overcoat and felt-lined goloshes, he makes for a doorway
above which appears, in crabbed Slavonian characters, the familiar word "[Cyrillic: TRAKTIR]."

Pushing open the heavy swing-door (through which issues a whiff of hot air charged with a combination
of greasy smells that might knock down a rhinoceros), our hero enters the long, low, dingy
room, and is instantly relieved of his coat and cap by half a dozen ready hands, while as many
voices greet him with the stereotyped formula, "Be happy,[B] barin! What are you pleased to
command?"

The "barin" is pleased to command a glass of tea, the customary order with trakteer-frequenters,
and it is obeyed almost as soon as given. Off skips one of the shirt-sleeved brotherhood, and
returns in a twinkling with a small tray, on which stand a large teapot full of hot water,
a smaller one filled with strong, rich, aromatic tea, a big tumbler (the Russian substitute
for a tea-cup), and several lumps of sugar in a tiny saucer.

[B] This is the literal meaning of the Russian Zdravstvuite! which answers to our "Good-morning!"

He proceeds to fill the glass, with scientific nicety of proportion, from both pots at once,
launches into it a thin slice of lemon, and then pronounces the talismanic word "Gotovo!" (ready).

While sipping his tea the inquirer after truth allows his eye to wander over the room, and
sees in every feature the "interior" displayed by every Russian trakteer from the White Sea
to the Black--bare whitewashed walls, toned down to a dull gray by smoke and steam and grease;
plank floor; double windows, with sand strewn thickly between them; rough, battered-looking
chairs and tables, literally on their last legs; and close-cropped waiters in dingy shirt-sleeves,
with flat, wide-mouthed faces that look very much like a penny with a hole through it.

And the habitués of the place are as queer as the place itself. Were Asmodeus at our explorer's
elbow, he would whisper that these two gaunt, sallow men opposite him, whose flat heads and
long lithe frames remind one irresistibly of a brace of Indian snakes, and whose conversation
seems to consist entirely of criticisms upon the weather or good-humored personal "chaff,"
are in reality concluding a bargain which involves many thousands of roubles; that this chubby
little man near the door, the very picture of artless simplicity, is one of the keenest and
most skilful speculators on the Moscow Exchange; and that yonder couple of greasy, unkempt,
lumpish-looking men in shabby brown coats, who are devouring salted cucumbers in the farther
corner, can put down half a million dollars apiece any day they like.

Suddenly the attention of the taker of notes is attracted by the mention of a familiar subject,
the Franco-German war, and, turning round, he sees at the table next his own two men in earnest
conversation--the one a big, florid, red-bearded fellow with a huge crimson comforter round
his bull neck, who is laying down the law in the most ex-cathedrâ fashion to his neighbor,
a meek-looking little man with gray hair and bright, restless eyes, not unlike those of a squirrel.
At first, the surrounding buzz of conversation and the clatter of plates and glasses allow
him to catch only a stray word of the dialogue every here and there; but after a time a temporary
lull in the hub-bub brings out in strong relief the following words, spoken with all the confidence
of a man accustomed to be listened to:

"Every one has his turn, Yakov Andreievitch (James the son of Andrew), and no man can escape
what is ordained for him. The Nyemtzi (Germans) have beaten the French. Well, what then? By
and by, please God, the French will beat the Nyemtzi. 'To live a lifetime is not to cross a
field,' and everything must change sooner or later."

The little man, who is listening to his big neighbor's philosophizings with an air of timid
admiration, remains silent for a moment, as if digesting the profound wisdom contained in the
last remark, and then ventures to observe, "You speak truly, Pavel Petrovitch (Paul the son
of Peter), but, in the mean time, what if these godless Germans fall upon Holy Russia?"

"Well, what if they do?" echoes the big man in a tone of supreme disdain. "Let them try it!
Ach, Yakov Andreievitch! how you talk! Surely you're not such a brainless fool as to think
that those hogs can ever beat the Pravoslavnié (orthodox)? Don't you know that Father Alexander
Nikolaievitch (the emperor) is the mightiest of all the kings of the earth?"

"Well--yes--of course," answers the other hesitatingly; "but still, you know, didn't Tsar Napolevon
march over our borders in the year '12, and burn Mother Moscow?"

"And what then?" rejoins the oracle, surveying him with calm, indulgent contempt. "Don't you
know that the devil helped him, or he could never have done anything?"

His hearer responds to this unanswerable argument by a murmur of assent, and washes it down
with a huge gulp of tea.

"And then," pursues Paul, following up his advantage, "didn't Napolevon come to an evil end
at last, as the devil's servants always do? Didn't we beat him and take him prisoner? and wasn't
he chained to a rock in the middle of the sea, beyond thrice nine lands, and kept there till
he rotted?"

"You speak truth, Brother Pavel; and it served him right, too, the accursed infidel! for burning
our churches and blaspheming the orthodox faith."

Then follows a short pause, during which the two speakers sip their tea with genuine Russian
enjoyment. At length, Yakov Andreievitch breaks the silence by saying, in a reverential undertone,
"Tell me now, Pavel Petrovitch--you who know everything--how did the Nyemtzi manage to take
Paris-Gorod if it was such a strong place? I've heard our folks in the village talk about it,
but I couldn't quite make out what they said--something about trenches, and a bom--bom--"

"Bombardirovanié (bombardment) you mean," suggested his companion, rolling out the magnificent
polysyllable with unmistakable enjoyment.

"That's it!" says the other, visibly relieved at being helped over this awkward place. "Now,
tell me, please, Pavel Petrovitch, what is a bombardment? Something to do with firing guns,
hasn't it?"

"I'll explain all that to you in two words, brother," answers the oracle in a tone of indulgent
superiority. "Here, we'll say, is the town--this tumbler here; and these four lumps of sugar
round it, here, and here, and here, are the enemy. Well, then, you see, the enemy begin firing
their great cannon at the walls to try and knock them down; and then the soldiers inside dig
little holes in the ground, called trenches, and burrow in them to avoid the cannon-balls.
Then the people outside here--the besiegers, you know--fire great round things, called bombs,
straight up in the air, so as to fall right into these holes, as you'd put a cork in a bottle,
and smother the men in them; and when they're all dead the town gives in; and that's called
a bombardment."

"Gospodi ponilni!" (Lord have mercy!), cries the startled listener. "What strange things there
are in this world, to be sure!--Well, Pavel Petrovitch, it's time for us to be going; so let's
have one more little glass together and be off."

DAVID KER.

THE NEW SOPRANO.

"Try that chair by the fire, Steve, and comfort your soles on the mantel while I unearth a
pair of slippers for you. I've a small mound of them in the closet, built up of the individual
gifts of 'grateful pupils.'"

"A cruel waste! You should be a centipede, Hal, instead of that forlorn biped, a bachelor.
By the way, speaking of single-blessedness, how it must harrow you, my boy, to witness diurnally
the bliss of the bride and bridegroom who sit opposite you here at table! Favor them with Lamb's
'Complaint against Married People,' will you? and send me the bill."

"Bride and bridegroom? Well, that is rich! Have a cigar, deluded youth, while I enlighten you
concerning this mellifluous couple. Did you mark the gentleman particularly? You can't take
him in at a glance: there's too much of him. Goodwin his name is--Timothy Goodwin: 'Good Timothy'
his friends dub him; and the title applies.

"He sat next me at table when I first came to Mrs. Tewksbury's, five years ago, and from the
outset he showed a fatherly interest in me--an interest which this quaking stripling of an
organist appreciated, I can assure you. Being one of the pillars of St. Luke's--the church
I play at, you remember--and an esteemed musical critic withal, his hearty approval of me as
a performer was an immense advantage to me.

"You'd hardly suppose such a quiet, imperturbable earthling as he looks to be would rhapsodize
over music, would you? It was a surprise to me to find how deeply it moved him. He soon fell
into the habit of dropping into my room after tea when he heard me at the piano; and many a
time I've caught the great, strong fellow mopping his eyes surreptitiously over affecting passages.

"As I came to know him intimately, and to feel what a staunch, tender-hearted, domestic sort
of individual he was, I began to wonder he had never married. One day I asked him in a joking
way how a rich man like himself could reconcile it with his conscience to remain a bachelor
in America, where there was such a preponderance of unmarried ladies to be supported? He made
a wry face, and said he had assumed the maintenance of two spinster step-cousins: wasn't that
his part?

"'Or if you think it isn't, Hal, I'll tell you what I'll do,' he added, laughing. 'You marry
yourself, and I'll support your wife. Won't that be fair?'

"'Hardly fair for the lady,' I remarked, adding that I should pity the luckless unknown who
should thus fail to secure him as her Benedict.

"The idea seemed to amuse him immensely.

"'You kindly insinuate that it would be a benevolence in me to take a wife,' said he with a
twinkle in his eye. 'Now, I protest I'm not conceited enough to think that. On the contrary,
if a woman should consent to give herself to me, I should consider the benevolence entirely
on her side. Can't say I crave such a charity just at present, though,' he added in comic haste,
stretching his long arms as if to waive the bequest. 'The fact is, Hal, I've never seen the
girl I want. Being hard upon forty, it stands to reason I never shall see her: I fear she died
young. May I trouble you to play Beethoven's Funeral March in respect to her memory?'

"And so the subject dropped.

"Timothy was no woman-hater, you understand. Indeed, he admired the whole sex, but in a collective
way, as you might admire the Galaxy without preferring any individual star. Young ladies were
to him nebulous and mysterious creations, to be reverenced from a distance: he never lavished
upon one of them a tithe of the attentions he lavished upon me. I had terrible headaches in
those days, and I shall never forget how patiently he would sit making passes over my head
till the pain yielded to his touch, as it was sure to do sooner or later. He had more magnetism
than any other man I knew. Detesting a dress-coat and white kids as he detested the machinations
of the Evil One, he seldom went into society, but he was always ready for lectures and concerts,
marching off to the hall with me on his arm as proudly as if I had been the most bewitching
damsel. Excepting on Saturday, when I was usually engaged at the choir rehearsal, we were rarely
separated of an evening.

"We had gone on in this David-and-Jonathan style perhaps a year, when Miss Sparrow came to
St. Luke's as soprano singer. I remember her first appearance in our dim old gallery that last
Sunday in Lent--how she seemed to brighten and glorify the place like a ray from heaven. And
then her voice! It set you thinking of angels. Moreover, she had the complexion peculiar to
that family, and the blue eyes and golden hair. For the life of me, I couldn't help twisting
my neck to look at her, at the imminent risk of spoiling my accompaniment.

"That noon Timothy electrified me by appearing in the organ-loft while it still echoed with
the benediction, though heretofore he had invariably waited for me after service in the vestibule.
I happened just then to be congratulating the new soprano on being in such capital voice that
morning, and as the tenor stepped across to shake hands with Timothy, I went on talking with
her till she left. When I turned the singers were gone, and there stood my poor David, frowning
at a music-rest so savagely that I fancied he must be suffering from a bad headache, and expressed
my sympathy.

"'Headache? I haven't a headache,' he growled, stalking down stairs in advance.

"I thought he needn't have felt so enraged if he hadn't, and walked on in dumb dignity. Presently
he observed testily that when he honored me with a call in my citadel, it might be polite in
me to introduce him to my friends.

"I said I thought he knew the members of the choir--all, at least, but the soprano.

"'Well, she's somebody, I suppose.'

"'I beg your pardon, Timothy,' I cried amazed. It didn't occur to me you'd care to become acquainted
with her. I didn't present you because I fancied you'd consider the introduction a bore.'

"'You're sure of that, Hal?' he asked with a sort of fierce eagerness. You haven't any personal
motive for not wishing to extend Miss Sparrow's circle of gentlemen friends?'

"I burst out laughing at the absurdity of the idea. It was but a week, remember, since my own
introduction to the young lady.

"Timothy drew a long breath, and straightway spent it in questions concerning her:

    Who was her father?
      Who was her mother?
    Had she a sister?
      Had she a brother?

"I told him all I knew. Her father lived on State street; her mother lived in heaven: sisters
she had none, but of little brothers something less than a score, who dogged her steps as persistently
as the bass follows the air. To escort her home from rehearsal was to lead the van of an infant
squadron, a running accompaniment which the night before had disturbed my mental harmony.

"For, though I did not feel it necessary to enlarge on this point to Timothy, I had conceived
a prodigious fancy myself for the sweet little soprano, and should have been glad to learn
more of her and less of her fraternal blessings. I afterward discovered why she surrounded
herself with these as with a garment. It was from pure compassion for her father. He was a
nervous invalid, and the proximity of those boys distracted him. Of course it did: I could
enter into the old gentleman's feelings perfectly. It distracted me too. Don't smile, my dear
fellow. The prancing young ubiquities were well enough in their way, I'll admit: I only objected
to having them in mine.

"All that week my beloved Timothy seemed strangely preoccupied and erratic, capping the climax
Saturday evening by fidgeting into my room in his next day's clothes to announce in a shame-faced
fashion that, by the way, he believed he'd look in with me that night at rehearsal if agreeable.

"It was not agreeable: it was decidedly otherwise, for it upset a deep-laid scheme of mine.
As Fate would have it, by means of sundry extra rehearsals for Easter I had made great progress
in my acquaintance with Miss Sparrow during the last few days, and but for Timothy I should
have called upon her that evening with the gift of a new ballad, and so, maybe, have had the
pleasure of escorting her to St. Luke's, to the routing of the brotherkins.

"Well, I could only toss the roll of music under the sofa as gently as masculine depravity
would permit, and conduct my music-greedy friend to the choir-meeting, ostensibly to listen
to the chants, though I knew, and he knew, that he had always heretofore objected to hearing
them practised.

"Of course I presented him in due form to Miss Sparrow when she arrived. He bowed like a worshipping
devotee, and as she moved to her place by the contralto sat down with an exalted expression
upon his hat, to the audible amusement of the youthful Sparrows perched on the gallery steps.
I glanced at him again during the first soprano solo, and saw him in the same position, his
eyes fixed on the singer. Rehearsal over, he coolly walked up to her to proffer his escort.
I verily believe she was too startled to decline it. She accepted his arm with a look of blank
amazement, and the two set off together through the April slosh, followed by the inevitable
juvenile guard. Judging from the bespattered condition of Timothy's overcoat that night, the
younglings danced about him like frisky satyrs all the way; but he wore the face of one who
has walked with angels far above this mud-ball.

"This indifference to his broadcloth struck me at the time as peculiar, for he has such a constitutional
horror of dirt that he really keeps up his muscle by the use of the clothes-brush; still, though
I afterward saw him spread his Sunday beans with mustard and his Monday bacon with oil, it
was not till late on the latter evening that I came to a just appreciation of his abnormal
state. Without knocking he bolted into my room in great agitation.

"'For the love of mercy, Hal, tell me what to do!' he cried, upsetting the piano-stool without
perceiving it. 'You're younger than I, and understand the nature of women better.'

"I did, did I? Well, I agreed with him on hearing his story.

"He had just returned from Miss Sparrow's. The young lady hadn't invited him to call: she didn't
receive calls now, in fact, on account of her father's rapidly increasing illness, though Timothy
was not aware of this. I dare say she thought he had come at my request with the new anthem
I had promised to send, and she ran down to the parlor at once, not even stopping to put down
the vial of medicine she happened to have in her hand.

"'Good-evening, Mr. Goodwin,' said she--nothing more nor less; and then she stood quietly awaiting
his message, very pale and interesting, I've no doubt, from grief and watching.

"I know Timothy's great warm heart swelled with compassion for the afflicted young thing, but
even to express his sympathy he would not touch so much as the hem of her garment till she
gave him the right, much less would he take her hand.

'"I'm afraid you're hardly prepared for what I'm about to say, Miss Sparrow,' he began, pacing
the roam, and probably hurling the words at her like pebbles from a sling. 'I'm aware it isn't
customary for a man to declare himself on so short an acquaintance, but I'm a plain, straightforward
fellow, desperately in earnest.'

"Fancy the little soprano's wonderment! I seem now to see her 'baby-blue' eyes opening each
moment wider and wider.

"'Till now I have never met any woman whom I wished to marry,' Timothy went on, 'and I am forty
years old. When at middle age love comes for the first time to a man of my temperament, it
is no milk-and-water sentiment, Miss Sparrow. I feel that I could give my life to make you
happy. Will you be my wife?'

"'You don't mean to say you charged upon the poor girl in that merciless way?' I broke in,
cutting short his narrative.

"He looked aggrieved and sorely puzzled. What had he done amiss? Hadn't he acted the part of
a gentleman in avowing his feelings? Wasn't it more honorable to tell her his intentions frankly
than it would have been to try to steal her affections unawares?

"'But how did Miss Sparrow take it?'

"'That's what troubles me,' said my wretched friend. 'She didn't take it kindly: she seemed
offended, and would have run away if I had not put my hand on the door-knob and begged her
to hear me through. I assured her I would not press her for an immediate answer, but she only
burst out crying declaring I had no right to say such things to her: she would tell her father.
As if I should object to his being told! Indeed, I should have spoken to him myself on the
subject this morning had not Dr. Pillsbury said he was too ill to see strangers. I tried to
make this plain to Miss Sparrow. I implored her to tell me how I had vexed her, but she broke
away from me and rushed out of the room. I cannot understand her conduct. I might have known
such a bright young girl couldn't fancy an old fossil like me, but am I so bad a fellow, Hal,
that she need feel insulted by my love? I would have walked barefooted over burning coals sooner
than have wounded her as I have done.' And so on, and so on, till the cock crew.

"I ventured a second time to hint that he had merely been too precipitate in his wooing, but
he shook his head incredulously, and finally went away as mystified as he came.

"At our next meeting the little soprano asked me in a shy, conscious way if my friend were
quite well. Had I ever fancied his brain affected? I might have answered with a simple negative:
I shall always think a little better of myself, Steve, that then and there, in the full bewitchment
of Miss Sparrow's presence, I had manliness enough to speak a good word for Timothy--to tell
her that, spite of some eccentricities, he had the finest brain, as well as the warmest heart,
of any man of my acquaintance.

"I did not see her again for months, as she withdrew from the choir to devote herself exclusively
to her father, whose sufferings were becoming daily more intense. These were not so much from
actual pain, as from extreme nervousness that opiates failed to relieve. Dr. Pillsbury often
spoke of the case--the doctor was boarding here then--and one day he appealed to Timothy to
go with him and try his magnetic power upon the patient. A queer look came over Timothy's face,
but he went at once, and was able to soothe the sick man simply by the laying on of hands.
After this, while Mr. Sparrow lived, he went often, and comforted him greatly in his last hours,
not only by his mesmeric influence, but indirectly as well by keeping those boys out of the
way. The money he spent at that time in taking the lads to panoramas and menageries would have
constituted him life member of a missionary society.

"You can see the natural result. Having proved a blessed narcotic to the dying father, Timothy
ceased to be an irritant to the daughter. An irritant? Timothy couldn't irritate her, and she
couldn't irritate Timothy. I've studied them curiously the three years of their married life,
only to arrive at this conviction. And you took them for bride and groom? No wonder! since
they still feast with unabated relish on connubial sweets. Ah, well! such diet is not for me,
my boy: I thrive upon sour grapes."

PENN SHIRLEY.

OUR MONTHLY GOSSIP.

MIRIDITE COURTSHIP.

The Miridites were until very lately an unknown people to a vast majority of even well-informed
persons in Europe and America. But since their late uprising against the Turks their name has
appeared conspicuously in many despatches from the seat of war, and their movements have excited
the active interest of the public all over the civilized world. Their close proximity to the
Montenegrins, their indomitable courage and love of liberty, and the natural advantages of
their country for purposes of defence and for the infliction of damages on Turkish trade with
the coast of the Adriatic, all render them dangerous enemies to the Ottoman empire. And, indeed,
nothing but their greater hostility to the Montenegrins has prevented their being a more troublesome
neighbor to the Turks than the latter have yet found them. Though apparently pacified for the
present, they are not likely to forget any grievance, real or imaginary, and they may yet take
a very active part in the operations of the hostile forces near their country. A sudden movement
on their part might have caused the complete destruction of the Turkish army now overrunning
Montenegro.

But it is not only in a political light that these little-known mountaineers are interesting
to the outside world. Their habits, character and tones of thought are so essentially peculiar,
and so widely different not only from those of fully-civilized countries, but from those existing
in the districts immediately adjoining them, that in reading descriptions of this part of Albania
our interest is constantly being excited on some new point.

Instead of dressing in rich and gorgeously-colored attire, like the other Albanians, the Miridites
wear a conspicuously plain costume. The dress of the men consists of a long white woollen coat,
a red belt, white pantaloons, rough hide boots and a white felt cap. The women wear coats like
the men, embroidered and fringed aprons, red trousers, and blue handkerchiefs twisted around
the head. The dress of the priests seems to us strikingly inappropriate, or at least far removed
from our notions of sacerdotal vestments. It consists of a red fez cap, a cloth jacket, and
just such baggy blue trousers as are worn by Greek sailors. The Miridites are all Roman Catholics,
and are as fanatical and violent in their feelings on the subject of religion as the most ignorant
peasants of Galway or the softas of Constantinople. They will allow no Mohammedan to settle
in their country, and their hatred of the Greek Church is hardly less pronounced. Yet their
religious observances partake of one or two features which are entirely Greek, and would not
be authorized by Romish Church dignitaries in any other country. And, in fact, the zeal of
these pious mountaineers seems to be tempered with very little knowledge, for they look upon
Saint Nicholas, the patron saint of their country and race, as an absolute deity, and are in
the habit of praying to Christ to intercede for them with Saint Nicholas.

Another remarkable thing about these people is that they will not, like the other Albanians
generally, fight as mercenaries. When they have assisted the Turks in their wars--and they
have done so repeatedly and very effectively--it has been as auxiliaries and, as they claim,
independent allies. They take pride in tracing their descent from the followers of George Castriote,
or Scanderbeg, who was born at Castri in their territory, and their prince, Prenk Bib Doda,
confidently asserts that the world-renowned Scanderbeg was his own ancestor. They consider,
therefore, that it would disgrace the memory of their heroic forefathers to fight as mere hirelings.

But perhaps the most extraordinary custom of the Miridites is that by means of which they get
their wives. When a young man among them contemplates marriage, he first goes to some Mohammedan
locality and finds out where the maidens are wont to stay. Then he returns, organizes a party
of friends and relatives, and, swooping down on the habitation of the bride-elect, carries
her off to his mountain-home and to a state of wedlock. But the most singular part of the whole
affair is that, in spite of the appearance of violence, the matter is really devoid of any
hostile feeling, and is, in fact, a perfectly amicable arrangement; for the husband afterward
hands over to the bride's relatives the price that is considered a bride's equivalent in that
part of the world, and both sides remain contented and on intimate and agreeable terms with
each other. The idea in giving this semblance of force to a courtship, and literally taking
to one's self a wife, seems to be that it is more manly to seize upon the lady than to sue
for her. Why Mohammedan women are always selected for capture by these fanatical Christians
does not appear. But it is probable that a desire to make proselytes is the chief motive which
causes this action. The women taken are not Turkish, but members of Albanian tribes which have
become Mohammedan; so it is probable that they, and consequently their children, are looked
upon as stray sheep brought back to the fold. As for the Miridite women, they must take their
chances of getting husbands among the other Christian tribes of Northern Albania, or else remain
virgins all their days, for on no account will the Miridite men marry within the tribe.

W. W. C.

FRIEND ABNER IN THE NORTH-WEST.

Friend Amos: As thee knows I have been here now some little time, thee will trust me to give
thee a fair description of the country and the people. The fertility of the land is so widely
known that I need not attempt to enlarge upon that to thee. Broad tracts of gently-rolling
prairie-land spread over the southern portions of Wisconsin and Minnesota, and vast pine-forests
are laid under tribute in the north. The Mississippi River, which flows between the two States,
sorely disappointed me. I looked for a broad and mighty mass of water, and I found a stream,
here at least, and even for hundreds of miles south, by no means as imposing as our own Delaware.
On either side of it rises a continuous range of limestone bluffs, showing, far up their rocky
sides, the clear wearing of the ancient water-line. Among these bluffs, stretching back some
miles from the river, curl beautiful and fertile valleys, planted in which, and often indeed
clinging to the unpromising sides of the ragged bluffs, are the dwellings of the settlers.
In the portions longest inhabited rise often pretty, and sometimes even stately, residences,
but in the western portions many of the settlers are colonists from Norway and Germany, and,
as these are mostly poor, they live more commonly in mere hovels, and stable their stock under
masses of straw resting on frames of posts. The long and tedious winters being severe on stock,
the farmers devote themselves, in a great degree, to the culture of wheat.

The climate has not the evenness of our own, and the reports I know thee has heard to the contrary
are mistaken. The mercury not unfrequently falls to thirty-five and forty degrees below zero
in many localities, but the air is dry, and does not try one as much, perhaps, as thee would
imagine: the bitter winds, however, sweep across these prairies and through and about the valleys
until it verily seems, Friend Amos, that the unaccustomed limbs must freeze. The people, however,
are not easily terrified, but heap on their fires such quantities of wood as seemed to me extravagant
(for wood is abundant here, but coal dear), and pass the winters cheerfully. I have noticed
that affections of the lungs are rarer here than in our climate, and that the most of those
so afflicted brought their diseases with them from the East.

I was surprised to find that the body of the people are by no means either ignorant or uncultivated,
and have even been shown official statistics to prove that in the fundamentals at least--reading
and writing--the percentage of ignorance is nearly one-third smaller than that of Pennsylvania.
There is less of higher culture, it is true, and the most respected and respectable citizens
are often heard lapsing into strange inaccuracies of language and pronunciation. One of the
most common is the use of "dooz" where "does" is meant. "I be" and "you be" are common instead
of "I am" and "you are." In some localities along the Mississippi River "slough" is pronounced
as if it were "slew." These are, of course, only laxities, and not the result of ignorance.
Though learning commands much respect, persons of high education are comparatively rare, but
shrewdness and general capacity, together with the will to work and the ambition to succeed,
are more universal than with us. I have been pleased to observe that "gentlemen of leisure"
and moneyed young men without employment are almost totally lacking. The greater number of
the business-men, particularly of the most enterprising and energetic, are quite young. The
most remarkable circumstance concerning them is the fact that many of them come to the West
with wholly insufficient, and sometimes even no, capital, and open business, relying largely
on their adroitness in "kiting," as it is called, which is practically buying on long time
and selling on short credit or for cash, trusting to quick returns to meet liabilities. In
a few cases this practice is in the end successful, because circumstances favor, but with the
large majority of such failure of course is only a question of time. It is to me astonishing
to what an extent this experiment is carried. Let me relate to thee a case which came to my
personal knowledge. This was of a buyer of wheat in a country town. It seems that it is the
custom of the large commission-merchants of Chicago and Milwaukee to receive from country buyers
consignments of produce for disposal, on which they make advances. This person had secured,
by the aid of a friend, a credit of a few hundred dollars at a certain country store, and proceeded
to buy produce from the farmers, paying in orders on the store. When he had sufficient he shipped
a car to the Eastern market, making at the same time a draft on the consignee against the bill
of lading. This he assigned to the keeper of the store, and drew orders against it for more
produce. I was informed that he had, a short time ago, in a busy season, purchased and shipped
during one single week fifty thousand bushels of wheat, and all without a dollar of capital
he could call his own. I am assured, Amos, that thee will be as much astonished as thy friend
was to learn that such things are regularly done by these wonderful people. These things account
quite easily for the constant ebbing and flowing of the tide of business-men in these little
"cities."

Society, in the newer sections, is evidently unsettled. Money of course commands respect, as
money does everywhere; intelligence, in at least reasonable measure, and some little cultivation,
are regarded as essentials among the better class of associates; but while the mixture is settling,
and the constituents separating and crystallizing, many wandering atoms seem to be at home
nowhere. Family or blood is but little regarded, occupation is no hinderance ordinarily, and
even well-known irregularities do not necessarily exclude. One of the earliest cautions I received
was never to allude slightingly to divorced people in public, "For who knows but there may
be several such among the company?" Among the ladies, accomplishments, except dancing, are
said to be somewhat neglected, although in all the arts of pleasing and in the graces of domestic
life they are peculiarly happy.

Trusting now, Friend Amos, that thee may learn to appreciate as I have the excellencies of
this country and these people, and to realize how greatly in reality they surpass our estimates,
I will tell thee no more till I see thee in person. Though I very much admire the people, and
wonder at their methods and their progress, I long to free myself from all this bustle and
strain and rest in peace at home.

In brotherly love, yours truly,

ABNER.

HOW SHALL WE CALL THE BIRDS?

Birds are the most effective aids to the farmer and the florist in checking the increase of
noxious insects that destroy the fruits of labor. A single pair will destroy hundreds of worms,
grubs, moths or beetles in a single day; and when they are present in sufficient numbers no
insect or creeping thing escapes their sharp little eyes or their exceeding quickness of motion.
As they multiply rapidly, there is no reason why every one of our fruit trees, every shrub
and vine, should not have its nest of birdlings. This would be the solution of the dreadful
curculio question, I believe. Heretofore, we have built fences around our orchards and enclosed
fowls in them. This at one time was supposed to be very effective, but a hundred chickens to
the square rod are not so effective as a pair of birds nesting in each tree, from the simple
fact that the former can only catch the insects that drop to the ground. After we have shaken
the curculio beetles off, to be sure the chickens will devour them readily, but then the pest
has generally done its work. It is not unusual to have every plum, apricot, nectarine or apple
on a tree stung in a single day; and in South Jersey the curculio has proved victorious in
the struggle with man. Every year we see these trees white with blossoms, and as regularly
every specimen of the fruit bearing the plague-spot--a tiny crescent-shaped wound in the cuticle--withering,
fading and falling. We painfully gather up this fallen fruit by the bushel, burn it to destroy
the grub of the curculio, and, hoping against hope, witness the same disaster the following year.

Now, we can have these much-desired friends, the birds, by the thousand about our farms and
gardens and orchards. There are many ways of attracting them and ensuring their return to us
every year, but the first step involves a sacrifice: we must destroy, shut up or banish every
cat from the premises. Some will find this hard to do. Puss is a very old favorite. Long before
the Pharaohs she was petted, and even held sacred. The Egyptian goddess Pacht had the head
of a cat. The origin of the veneration of the cat was, it is said, her mice-destroying power.
In a famine-visited country like Egypt the preservation of the crops of grain was of prime
importance; and the cat--allowed from its sacred character to increase and multiply as cats
have the power to do--was no doubt a very effective means to that end. But in this age of progress
we can dispense with cats--in the country at least. I have proved by experiment that a half
dozen wire-spring mice-traps, kept clean and freshly baited with toasted cheese, are better
than as many cats to keep pantries and cupboards free of mice. As for rats, everybody knows
that one rat-terrier in a granary is better than an army of cats.

Many people, in their simplicity of soul, have believed that it is possible to have the confidence
of birds without banishing the cats, and even that the cat might be so reformed that she would
come to respect the rights of the birds. These people generally refer triumphantly to the "Happy
Family" of Barnum--a cage containing a bird, a monkey, a cat and several mice, all living together
in sleepy amity. But this will not do. The animals of that "family" were kept in such a semi-torpid
state by confinement and high living--even if they were not daily dosed, as some declared,
with Mrs. Winslow's Soothing Syrup--that they had not spirit enough to exercise their natural
passions.

No, puss cannot be reformed; and since there are so many who cannot bring their minds to destroy
their favorite cats, nor to shut them up from spring till fall, would it not be well to have
cat boarding-houses opened in cities to meet this need? I could name more than one who would
patronize such an institution. Our cat, old Navet--so called from her habit of bringing up
turnips from the cellar and insisting upon munching them in the library--has been sent some
miles away to a friend, who, having several cats already, cannot expect to have birds about
the house; but if this resource failed, I should not hesitate long between even Navet and the
birds.

I had always known that more birds would nest about places where there were no cats; but as
I had always seen some birds in summer about all houses, I did not realize what a wonderful
effect would be produced by the total absence of this dreaded foe to birds until I resolved
to have no cat about in summer, and banished the last one. From that day the birds began to
come nearer and nearer, stay longer each day, and finally, reassured, build their nests in
the grapevines, in the orchard trees, in the little evergreens near the house, and in the branches
of the raspberries and blackberries. Scores came where formerly there had been but two or three
pairs. Two pairs of pretty brown sparrows (Spizella socialis) built nests in a small Chinese
honeysuckle on a veranda-pillar not six feet from the front door. These nests were about four
and five feet high; and although the veranda, being furnished with rustic chairs and a comfortable
Mexican hammock, was almost constantly occupied, yet the birds built their nests and tended
their little families as unconcerned, as confident of our protection apparently, as if we had
been creatures of their own kind. They would not move from their work when we approached so
closely that our faces were only a few inches from the nests. This spring more little houses
were made and fastened up in the trees--rude little painted boxes, with a roof and a door in
front, the whole set on a small board serving for a doorstep as well as general foundation.
The bluebirds were specially delighted with these houses, and took possession almost as fast
as they were put up. The catbird, a first cousin of the Southern mocking-bird, is also very
fond of the neighborhood of human beings, and many others which I know imperfectly as yet.

Besides building little houses for bluebirds and others, a very effective means of attracting
birds generally is a little tray for crumbs, seeds, etc. A piece of board a foot square with
an inch-high border to keep the food from blowing off, and fastened upon a tree, will answer
every purpose, though it may be improved by a roof. But the wisest device for calling birds
about the house--in places where there are no brooks or springs near especially--is a bird-bath.
Almost all birds are fond of bathing; and any one who will but take the trouble to fill a shallow
dish every day with water, and place it in some shady nook, will be repaid a thousand-fold
by the sight of the birds bathing--some flashing the spray in all directions, some dressing
their wet plumage in the near branches, some disputing the right to the first plunge.

To those enjoying the luxury of a garden-fountain it is very easy to arrange a very excellent
bath of this kind, and it is surprising that so few have thought of it. All that is necessary
is to place the edge of a very shallow dish under the drip of the fountain-basin. Half an inch
of water is sufficient--small birds will not bathe unless the water is very shallow, and they
do not like to get under the spray--or a little platform could be managed in the fountain-basin.
For my birds, as a dish placed upon the ground always excites the insolent curiosity and meddling
of the turkeys, I have had recourse to another device: a little platform on four posts about
three feet high, perforated to admit a wash-basin to the rim. Around three sides of this table
I set a dozen supple oak saplings, fastening them by iron staples to the edge of the table,
and bringing them all together, wigwam style, over head about three feet above the basin. At
the foot of the saplings I planted madeira-vine roots, which will produce an abundance of foliage
and blossom after they grow, but not being willing to wait for this, I covered all the saplings
separately from ground to peak with evergreens from the woods, and then carpeted the whole
floor under the table with various colored mosses. The whole effect of the structure, standing
in the shade of the trees, is very pretty and quaint. As the water should be changed every
night, the waste poured over the mosses will keep them always in good condition. Of course
this basin of water is far too deep for any sort of bird except a wader or a swimmer, and to
arrange it exactly right, so that the bathing depth can be uniform, as the heat of the day
dries up the water, has not been so easy as one might imagine it would be. The best thing I
have found thus far is a circle of board held submerged on one side by a weight and a string,
the other side floating. A more perfect thing could doubtless be contrived, and will be by
many who like myself love the birds, and have determined to foster their presence in every
way for their beneficent services, material and æsthetical.

M. H.

A CHEERING SIGN.

Very pleasant reading is a California item of court-proceedings going to show that a Mongol
still stands within the pale of the law upon the soil of the Golden State. A wanton murder
of some Chinese at Chico was judicially avenged by the sentencing of two of the Caucasian participants
to twenty-five years' imprisonment, and of a third to the nicely-calculated, if not nicely-adjusted,
term of twenty-seven years and a half. Had the unhappy victims been whites, or even blacks,
the arithmetic of time would probably not have been drawn on, but summary recourse would have
been made to such punishment as eternity could furnish. But we must not be too exacting. Let
us be grateful that the criminal law has any shield, be it of the thinnest, for the Chinaman.

Very different is the case when the Celestial ox gores the Yankee bull. Indemnity, swift and
condign, does what mortal hand can do to heal the hurt. A Chinese court, upon Chinese soil,
is not allowed to try a Chinese for an injury done to the Christian stranger within Chinese
gates. Treaties imposed by the strong arm reserve practical jurisdiction to our own representatives;
and it is the peers of the alleged sufferer, not the peers of the accused, who virtually try
the cause. Similar rules obtain in the other Mongolian empire. We all possess, as still quite
a fresh sensation, a memory of the account published a few years since of the committing of
harikari by a Japanese official of high social standing, at the bidding of a native court,
in atonement of an affront offered to an American officer--how the representatives of the United
States were formally invited, in full uniform, to witness the bloody self-immolation of the
proud but to the law submissive Mongol; how everything went off en règle, from the theatrical
preparation of the stage with seat, sword and red carpet to the climax of decapitation of the
culprit by his body-servant; and how our representatives in gilt and blue filed out shocked,
but vindicated, and satiated with more than the full measure of justice pressed down and running
over.

Harikari has not begun, nor is it likely soon to begin, to thin the ranks of our Californian
office-holders. Few die, none resign, and absolutely none are got rid of in that way. They
have no treaty-courts to make them afraid. Their lives are their own, and we hope may always
be. But we trust, also, that they will accord a like privilege to their neighbors from over
the way, and cultivate the impression that life may be dear as well to a man with a lemon complexion,
oblique eyes and a pig-tail. As an evidence of a dawning disposition to accept this view we
may be permitted to hail with satisfaction the disappearance for twenty-seven years and six
months of a Californian who declined adopting it.

E. C. B.

LITERATURE OF THE DAY.

    Peru. Incidents of Travel and Exploration in the Land of the
    Incas. By E. George Squier, late United States Commissioner to
    Peru. New York: Harper & Brothers.

Mr. Squier does not give us the date of his explorations in Peru, but he tells us that they
occupied him two years, during which he "crossed and recrossed the Cordillera and the Andes
from the Pacific to the Amazonian rivers, sleeping in rude Indian huts or on bleak punas in
the open air, in hot valleys or among eternal snows, gathering with eager zeal all classes
of facts relating to the country, its people, its present and its past." It must not be inferred
from this description that he claims the honors of a pioneer or discoverer. Many previous travellers
had pursued the same quest, encountered the same hardships and described the same objects.
Few of them, however, had enjoyed the same advantages or possessed equal fitness for the task.
His previous studies and investigations had familiarized him with the aboriginal history of
America and with many of its existing relics; his appointment as commissioner of the United
States to Peru for the settlement of some disputed claims gave him facilities which, as a foreigner,
he might otherwise have lacked; and his equipments both for personal comfort and for scientific
and artistic purposes seem to have been as complete as a single traveller could be expected
to provide. The result is a work which, if not actually the ablest, is the most thorough and
satisfactory, which the subject has yet called forth. It contrasts in all respects with the
latest of its predecessors, Hutchinson's Two Years in Peru, a book of still greater size, but
deficient in all the elements of critical and literary power, while replete with pretentiousness
and dogmatism. In the narration of his journeys and adventures Mr. Squier is always entertaining;
his account of the present condition of the country and the people is instructive, though somewhat
meagre; his descriptions of ancient remains, if not always as vivid or even as clear as one
might desire, are generally more careful and minute than any that have before been given of
them, and are supplemented by admirable views and plans that add greatly to the value and attractiveness
of the volume. Finally, while his knowledge and training have well qualified him to form independent
judgments, he neither seeks to discredit all previous research nor to support any of the fantastic
theories of which American antiquarianism has been so prolific. He was not open to the temptation
that leads those who are first in the field to magnify its marvels, and he is equally free
from that tendency to belittle them which betrays the desire of later explorers to display
their own superior acumen. He makes no attempt to reconstruct the past by piecing together
accumulated details and calling to his aid the imaginative faculty, which, in history and science
as well as in art, gives form and life to its material. But his conclusions, if general in
nature and limited in range, are such as commend themselves to all minds competent to grasp
the problems presented and not led astray by prepossessions. He finds the existing relics in
Peru substantiating in the main the accounts given by the Spanish writers of its condition
at the time of the Conquest, and he finds that condition accordant with the early history of
civilization under similar circumstances in other parts of the world. He does not think it
necessary, therefore, either to account for the existence of those monuments with the ruins
of which the soil is so thickly strewn by an immigration from India or Egypt, nor to reduce
them to the proportions and character of the Pueblo remains in New Mexico, in order to prove
that America, in contrast with the Eastern continent, has had but one original type of development,
and that the lowest. On the contrary, he holds it certain that "the civilization of the ancient
Peruvians was indigenous," and he considers it to have passed through several stages, and to
have proceeded independently among different races and tribes, culminating at last in the organization
of a national polity and a common rule. Under that rule he believes that "the material prosperity
of the country was far in advance of what it is now. There were greater facilities of intercourse,
a wider agriculture, more manufacture, less pauperism and vice, and--shall I say it?--a purer
and more useful religion." With the ruins that throw light upon the "customs, modes of life,
and political, social and domestic organization" of "the vanished empire of the Incas," are
others that point to a wholly different state of society and an immeasurable antiquity. "Combined
with the stupendous and elaborate remains of Tiahuanuco--remains as elaborate and admirable
as those of Assyria, of Egypt, Greece or Rome--there are others that are almost exact counterparts
of those of Stonehenge, and Carnac in Brittany, to which is assigned the remotest place in
monumental history. The rude sun-circles of Sillustani, under the very shadow of some of the
most elaborate, and architecturally the most wonderful, works of aboriginal America, are indistinguishable
counterparts of the sun-circles of England, Denmark and Tartary." Such evidence, concurrent
with that which abounds in more northern regions, points unmistakably to an early development
on this continent, similar in character and course, and coeval or anterior in date, to that
which has left like indications in so many parts of the Eastern hemisphere. There the records
are more scattered and more varied, as from the size and conformation of the continents and
the greater diversities of climate we might have expected them to be; and those at least of
a later period are, from the nature of the case, more easy of interpretation in the light of
legend, tradition and written history. But the general features are intelligible in all, and
the revelation which they make is identical. They show the human mind, under like external
conditions and with like internal conceptions, advancing on the same line from barbarism to
culture; they show a struggle and rivalry of races and tribes, in which one or another shoots
forward for a time, and is then outstripped or pushed aside; they show a gradual sifting, blending
and consolidation, in which primitive and fortuitous forms of association are superseded by
a system presenting the symmetry and composite character of an artificial structure. Everywhere
the process is marked by the final predominance of two principles, which stimulate, direct
and regulate all the efforts that are made toward artistic expression, industrial science and
social organization. For the human mind at this stage all conceptions of Nature may be comprised
under the name of religion, and all ideas of order and co-operation under that of monarchical
rule. The monuments of this period that have sprung from the united labor of the community
all attest the control and supervision of one or both of these powers. Not only do temples
and palaces bear this stamp, but all public works of whatever nature testify, by the gigantic
results in comparison with the deficient means, to such an authority in those who planned them
and such a subordination in those by whom they were executed as cannot be conceived of either
under the looser organizations of barbarism or the more equitable arrangements of modern life.
The cyclopean walls, the imposing edifices, the subterranean aqueducts, the mountain terraces,
of Peru tell the same tale as pyramids and temples, towers and palaces, in Egypt, Assyria or
India. The critic who can find in the ruins at Gran Chimu and Pachacamac only "communal houses"
inhabited by "groups of families" on the method of the Iroquois, in the vast isolated structures
of Tiahuanuco the remains of "an Indian pueblo after the ordinary form," and in the enormous
and elaborate fortifications of Cuzco and Ollantay-tambo the works of village communities and
petty tribes, is not only bent on the support of a theory at whatever cost of truth and sense,
but predetermined, one would say, to hold it as a monopoly. Compared with absurdities of this
order, the wildest imaginings of M. Brasseur de Bourbourg are entitled to be ranked with the
conjectures of a sane philosophy.

Mr. Squier, as we have seen, gives no countenance to baseless speculations, and the publication
of his book has, it is evident, fallen on them as a heavy blow and great discouragement. The
preciseness of his details gives a force and authority to both his statements and opinions
which cannot easily be evaded or resisted even by those most given to substituting assumptions
for evidence and facts. His descriptions of the stone-work of the ancient Peruvians are not
likely to suggest to unsophisticated readers an identity of race and institutions with the
inhabitants of wigwams. "The joints are all of a precision unknown in our architecture, and
not rivalled in the remains of ancient art that had fallen under my notice in Europe. The statement
of the old writers, that the accuracy with which the stones of some structures were fitted
together was such that it was impossible to introduce the thinnest knife-blade or finest needle
between them, may be taken as strictly true. All modern work of the kind there--and there are
some fine examples of skill--looks rude and barbarous in comparison." We may imagine the straits
to which the advocates of Lo are driven when they point to the absence of mortar or cement
of any kind in such walls as a proof of rudeness and ignorance in the builders. But, as Mr.
Squier reminds us, Humboldt found a true mortar in the ruins of Pullal and Canuar, in Northern
Peru. Humboldt found, too, in the same region the remains of paved roads not inferior to any
Roman roads which he had seen in Italy, France or Spain; and though Mr. Squier states that
few traces of such roads now exist in the southern part of the country, and infers that they
never existed here, since "the modern pathways must follow the ancient lines," and "there is
no reason why they should have suffered more from time and the elements in one part of the
country than in another," it seems to us impossible to reject in so summary a fashion the testimony
of early writers, given, not in mere general terms, but with a minuteness of description rivalling
his own. Possibly, the explanation may be found partly in the fact that the roads in one part
of the country were generally more ancient than in the other--many of them, as we know, dating
from a period anterior to the Inca rule--and partly to the greater devastations wrought by
the European conquerors and their descendants in the neighborhood of the capital and on the
most frequented routes. In other particulars, such as the size of the Peruvian houses and the
existence of windows, Mr. Squier finds the facts to have been understated by Humboldt. Generally,
as we have already intimated, he finds full confirmation of the accounts of such writers as
Cieza de Leon and Garcilasso de la Vega in those relics which still survive as the surest witnesses
of the past, defying the tooth of time, the ravages of violence and the denials and assumptions
of a crazy scepticism.

    Camp, Court and Siege: A Narrative of Personal Adventure and
    Observation during Two Wars, 1861-65, 1870-71. By Wickham
    Hoffman. New York: Harper & Brothers.

Had the third of this book which is devoted to the writer's reminiscences of the late civil
convulsion in his own country been omitted or reserved for expansion into a separate publication,
the remainder would have had more unity and attractiveness. The latter is by far the more interesting
portion. Expanded and fortified by details, references and documents, Major Hoffman's account
of his experience as secretary of legation at Paris in the year of the siege might have filled--and
may yet be made to fill--an important place among memoirs of its class. His narrative style
is clear and pleasant, if never vivid or impressive. It harmonizes with the complexion of truth,
and truth is the first thing we ask from the diarist and observer. Our confidence is won by
his direct and unambitious way of telling what he saw and shared.

We should think it not improbable that the writer will adopt this course, and use more fully
the material which must be at his command for illustrating, from an exceptionally favorable
point of view, the fall of the Second Empire and the double fall of its capital. The American
legation, under Mr. Washburne, was brought into close relations with the Empire, the Republic
and the Commune by means of its delegated character as protector of North German subjects during
the war. It was, for that period, much the most notable among the foreign embassies in France.
While those of the principal European powers, as for most of the time the French government
itself, left the capital, it, with the representatives of two or three minor states, remained
at its post. Outside of the very onerous function assumed by it at the request of the German
government, it had other great cares and great opportunities for good. These appear to have
been encountered and used with remarkable tact and energy. Its display of those qualities has
been gratefully acknowledged by its own people, those of Germany and many of the French. At
the outbreak of the war thirty thousand Germans were established in Paris. Summary expulsion
was decreed against these, and the American minister and his subordinates had the sole charge
of applying the meagre funds sent by their own sovereign for mitigating the suffering due to
that order. Some thousands, unable to leave or preferring to run all risks, remained throughout
the war. This unhappy remnant constantly looked to the American ministry for aid to subsist
and to escape violence. Mr. Hoffman ventures to place the banishment of the Germans, for acuteness
if not mass of suffering, by the side of the ejection of the Huguenots and the Moors. This
exaggeration serves at least to show the impression it made on an eye-witness.

Major Hoffman's remarks on the causes of the moral breakdown of the Empire and of the French
army do not help us to much that is novel. He lays more than the usual stress on Ultramontanism
as an influence. The death of the archbishop of Paris could have been prevented, he thinks,
had the Versailles authorities acted with due promptness and determination; and he avers his
belief that the liberalism of that prelate made his death not unacceptable to the Church party
represented now by Eugénie and MacMahon. He ascribes fanaticism also to the savior of Paris
that was to be--Trochu. Trochu's main hope, he believes, was miraculous interposition. His
statement of the extent to which unreasoning panic had possession of both soldiers and citizens
supports the idea that supernatural aid only could have saved the city.

The better, and really ruling, traits of the French people are not to be studied in their periods
of "Gallic fury." Thus it is that the book before us is an unsafe guide on that point. Six
years have rolled away since the revolt of the Commune, the loss of two rich provinces and
the imposition of a tribute nearly half as large as the debt of the United States. The evidence
given and the effective results shown of patience, perseverance, order, determined good faith,
industry and self-control have no parallel in a like period of the history of any modern people.

    The Plains of the Great West and their Inhabitants. By R. I.
    Dodge. New York: G. P. Putnam's Sons.

Here we are favored with a glance through another military lorgnette, but at a scene geographically,
socially and politically the antipodes of Paris. Colonel Dodge leads us into the haunts of
the original denizens of Western America, and depicts their traits with a hand made facile
by long familiarity. At part of the aborigines--and that part obviously most attractive to
and most assiduously studied by him--he bids us look through the sights of the rifle or along
the dappled double-barrel. At the other he essays, with less success perhaps, to aid us with
the eye of the amateur statesman and political economist. The wearers of fur and feather have
no moral side. The Indian has. His condition and future are correspondingly complicated. How
to shoot him is not the sole and simple question, as it is with his original compatriots except
the buffalo. With the latter shaggy and multitudinous creature the fate of the Indian of the
Plains is more or less linked. They move together, and may be said to die together. On a map
of the territory between the Rocky Mountains and the Mississippi are traced two pairs of reservations.
Of one the Yellowstone, and of the other the Arkansas, is the centre. Each pair is composed
of a buffalo-range and a group of Indian tribes. The three lines of east-and-west railway separate
them, and shoulder to right and left, north and south, the savage and his herds.

Of the enormous numbers of the wild cattle which were once the exclusive property of the Indian
we have been accustomed to form but a very inadequate idea. They exceed those which have raised
the Tartar into the comparatively high rank of a pastoral nomad. The patriarch or poet Job
was a famous cattle-owner, but he was a small dairyman by the side of a Cheyenne or Rickaree
chief, and a stampede of a small detachment of buffalo would have run down unnoticed the whole
of his live-stock. In the three years 1872-74 four and a half millions of buffalo--considerably
more than half as many as all the black cattle in the British Islands--were slaughtered. From
this fact may be gathered an impression of the vast provision of human food until lately stored
by Nature in a region still marked on modern geographies as a desert. Of the value of this
endowment the Indian, with all his improvidence, had some notion. It was a resource he may
be said to have husbanded. Of nothing like the wanton and shameful destruction dealt by the
whites since the feeding-grounds were made accessible by rail was he ever guilty. He managed
his hunts systematically, placed them under the rigid control of a sort of guild known as "dog-soldiers,"
and allowed to be slain only what were needed for his wants. The buffalo was to him what the
cocoa-palm is to the Polynesian; and more, for he needed warm shelter and warm clothing. He
cared for it accordingly. It grew around him almost as the cocoa-grove around the hut of the
islander. A herd will even now graze quietly for days in the neighborhood of an Indian village
of a thousand souls, while an encampment of half a dozen whites disperses it instantly. The
whites kill only for the hides, two of which they lose for every one saved in merchantable
condition. A very small proportion of the flesh is utilized when the railway happens to be
near enough, and within a like limit of territory the bones are collected. In the single year
1874 over ten millions of tons of these were sent East to fertilize the exhausted fields of
the Atlantic slope with the refuse riches of the "desert."

No treaties are made with the buffalo. He is swindled by no agents, post-traders or secretaries
at war. He addresses no pathetic remonstrances to his Great Father, and expresses no sense
of his wrongs by taking scalps or inflicting worse horrors still. School-houses, temperance
societies, small-pox and whiskey are not for him. Yet does he move toward annihilation, as
we have said, in singularly close lock-step with the Indian. His problem, like the other, is
being settled by the settler. Were the red man edible, the parallelism in destiny would be
more complete. As it is, the quadruped will disappear before the biped native. Individuals
of the latter will be absorbed into the bosom of civilization, as the remnants of the Senecas,
the Oneidas and the Pamunkeys have long since been. As a race, the Indians' best hope is euthanasia.
Even that is desperately uncertain. The Cherokees, Creeks and Choctaws, with their minor associates
in the Indian Territory, are, though not increasing in numbers, living in peace and something
like industry. Yet they are at the mercy of any vagabond who should take it into his head to
"salt" with gold-dust or silver-ore any ravine in the midst of their country. No law and no
army would avail to repel the rush. They would go the way of the Sioux of the Black Hills,
and would have only the choice of drifting out of existence on the outskirts of white society
or of being washed high and dry over the frontier. Where are the sixty thousand Indians who
at the time of the transfer of California were so comfortably coddled under the wing of the
missions? They have been the victims of no recorded war, and the agents never had a chance
at them. They have gone, however, with a rapidity unexampled anywhere east of the mountains.

Solutions of the Indian problem are endless, and the writer of the book named at the head of
these paragraphs has his shy at it. His plan is new chiefly in blaming all round--traders,
Quakers, Indians, government and frontiersmen. If we can venture to centralize his invective,
we should lay it specially on the heads of the class the Indians term "squaw-men"--the whites
who have Indian wives and are established among the lodges. Of these he gives us a conjectural
census--a hundred agencies and reservations and ten squaw-men to each. From this thousand are
drawn all the interpreters; and not a solitary interpreter, Colonel Dodge insists, can be relied
upon. They are, every man of them, in league with the agents and traders against the government
and the Indians. The two last named--parties of the first part, as we should style them--never
come together and never understand each other. The colonel's cure is remitting the whole thing
to army control. But that, we need not say, has been tried, with results by no means brilliant.

For those who have never even seen an annuity distributed to aggravate the muddle with their
suggestions would be most presumptuous. It is as little as we can do to abstain. We may venture
here only to say a word in mitigation of the deep stain left upon the fair fame of the United
States by its management of Indian affairs. The contrast so frequently drawn with the course
of things in Canada is not wholly just. It was the French who saved the Canadian Indians from
the mere sordid extinction which has befallen most of their southern congeners, as it was the
Spaniards who kept the California tribes alive. The natives--or rather the French half-breeds--were
made trappers and voyageurs before the English conquest of the province. But for that preparation
they might have gone the way of our Indians under Anglo-Saxon pressure. Climate also favored
them. Only an infinitesimal fraction of British America is capable of white colonization.

Dropping a theme which bids fair to remain undisposed of, like the disputes of Hogarth's doctors,
till the patient is dead, we revert to Colonel Dodge's book, and to those of its pages which
it is clear he wrote most en amateur. Soldier and student, he is above all a sportsman. It
is delightful to follow him over the plain and (in spirit and untearable trousers) into the
chaparral. Anywhere between the Rio Grande, the Missouri and Bridger's Pass he seems to be
as much at home as on his own farm. All its live-stock is familiar to him. His sheep are of
the big-horn breed; his black cattle, the two varieties of buffalo, mountain and lowland; and
his poultry, the prairie-chicken and its relatives. He is both interesting and instructive.
The puma and the panther he avers to be distinct species. The prong-horned antelope--the only
American species, and now, we believe, assigned by naturalists to a genus of its own--he demonstrates
to shed its horns. He describes six species of native grouse; to which if we add two others
not found within the limits he describes, we have eight for the United States against two in
Great Britain and four for all Europe. His stories of sport and adventure are given with circumstance
and animation. Extra spice is thrown in by a moderate infusion of second-hand relations of
a more or less imaginative character, which he is careful to separate from the fruit of his
own experience and observation. The physical conformation of the country and its climate are
described with remarkable distinctness. We do not know a book on the subject that comes up
more faithfully to its title.

Books Received.

    The Struggle against Absolute Monarchy, 1603-1688: Epochs of
    English History. By Bertha Meriton Cordery. (Harper's Half-Hour
    Series.) New York: Harper & Brothers.

    The Tudors and the Reformation, 1485-1603: Epochs of English
    History. By M. Creighton, M.A. (Harper's Half-Hour Series.) New
    York: Harper & Brothers.

    Buckeye Cookery and Practical Housekeeping. Compiled from
    Original Recipes. Marysville, Ohio: Buckeye Publishing Co.

    University Life in Ancient Athens. By W. W. Capes, M.A. (Harper's
    Half-Hour Series.) New York: Harper & Brothers.

    The Children of Light. By Rev. William W. Faris. (The Fletcher
    Prize Essay, 1877.) Boston: Roberts Brothers.

    Reconciliation of Science and Religion. By Alexander Mitchell,
    LL.D. New York: Harper & Brothers.

    Syrian Sunshine. By T. G. Appleton. (Town-and-Country Series.)
    Boston: Roberts Brothers.

    The Anonymous Hypothesis of Creation. By James J. Furniss. New
    York: Charles P. Somerby.

    Personal Immortality, and other Papers. By John Oppenheim. New
    York: Charles P. Somerby.

    Harry. By the Author of "Mrs. Jerningham's Journal." New York:
    MacMillan & Co.

    Birds and Poets, with other Papers. By John Burroughs. New York:
    Hurd & Houghton.

    Atlas Essays. Number 2, Biographical and Critical. New York: A.
    S. Barnes & Co.

    In the Camargue. By Emily Bowles. (Loring's Tales of the Day.)
    Boston: Loring.

    Eugénie. By B. M. Butt. (Leisure-Hour Series.) New York: Henry
    Holt & Co.

    Mar's White Witch: A Novel. By G. Douglas. New York: Harper &
    Brothers.

    Table Talk. By A. Bronson Alcott. Boston: Roberts Brothers.

Page 177 dun-colered replaced with dun-colored.

Pages 158-165 Della Scala, Delle Scale, Della Scale and Delle Scala both retained.

Page 189 Eitzgerald corrected to Fitzgerald.

