It would tire you to read the entire programme, so I will mention and describe briefly only
a few of the pieces, though all were as creditably rendered as if it were a white school, with
the singing perhaps better. The pupils, without exception, acquitted themselves nobly, and
their neat appearance was worthy of special mention.

You would have been pleasantly entertained had you witnessed the Missionary Colloquy, in which
20 girls, some taken from each department of the school, took part. First came a girl bearing
the American flag and representing America, who spoke, and was then followed by another girl
with a Bible, representing Christianity. Next came singly nine girls in costume, each to represent
a heathen nation, and making an earnest plea for the Gospel. Then followed a band of nine little
American missionary workers, each stepping to the front and telling how she had earned her
money which she was about to give to the noble cause. After dropping her gift in a basket held
by "America," she repeated these words: "O happy, happy child am I, to serve the Lord of earth
and sky;" then taking her place, another came forward in the same way until all had spoken.
"America" now hands her basket, with its treasure, to Christianity, whom she addresses; then
both turn and address the heathen in concert. In the time, missionary hymns were sweetly sung
by the girls, and the piece, as presented, was one of the finest I ever saw.

The doll drill was another interesting part of the evening's entertainment. The little primary
girls went through the different evolutions with almost military precision, eliciting rounds
of applause.

So I might name many pieces of almost equal interest, but suffice it for me to mention further
only the closing. This was "The Cross and Crown," consisting of tableaux and recitations taken
mostly from "The Cross-Bearer." The time occupied in this was fully 45 minutes; and although
the hour was so late, our audience did not fail to appreciate this beautiful piece. Several
of the older people being asked which piece they liked best, replied, "I believe I liked the
one with the angel best."

A very important part of the evening's work must not be omitted from mention. This was the
presentation of certificates to the graduating class on the completion of the Elementary Normal
Course ending with the 10th year or grade. The members of this class, one young man and two
young ladies, have been reared up in our school, and would be a credit to any school. This
is the first graduation from the course; and although the class is small, it has incited others
to say, "I mean to stick to the school until I can stand where they did."

We think the entertainment was filled with sermons, and we trust that the influence produced
may be all for good.

  GEO. A. WOODARD.

       *       *       *       *       *

RELIGIOUS INTEREST IN TALLADEGA.

The second Sabbath in May was a notable day with our college church at Talladega. It was a
feast of ingathering.

As early as eight o'clock a band of young men assembled on the banks of Talladega Creek, that
three of their number might be immersed. It was a lovely spring morning, and the green banks,
the running waters, the sweet air, the bright sunshine, the hymns, the prayers, the remarks
of the pastor, and the Sacrament itself (administered by Rev. Spencer Snell, the pastor having
had a congestive chill the preceding week, and being forbidden to go into the water) were full
of solemnity and sweet instruction.

Two hours later we met again in the college chapel. One of the most pressing needs of this
church is a house of worship. There has not been, rain or shine, since I came here, a Sabbath
congregation that was not too large for our chapel. Growth is impossible. How it will be during
the college vacation, I cannot say; but during this college year it has always been uncomfortably
crowded, and every Sabbath has overflowed up on to the platform. This morning all seats were
filled and extra benches occupied. The Lord's table was spread for His people, and after a
sermon from the text, "How can this man give us his flesh to eat?" forty were received into
the fellowship of the church and welcomed to the table. Of these, thirty were baptized by sprinkling.
To those acquainted with the ways and prejudices of these people, the fact that we sprinkled
thirty, while we immersed only three (these three were mature men), will be full of significance.
None others asked to be immersed, or suggested it.

This addition to our church embraced about one-third of the number professing conversion during
our recent series of meetings, conducted by Brother Field. Others will come to us, but many
who are students here will join the churches at their homes. The success of those meetings,
reaching as they did every student in the college buildings, with a single exception, was so
notable that a word as to the manner in which they were conducted may be of interest.

The beginning of the extra meetings was providentially postponed more than once. They did not
begin with the coming of the new pastor in the fall, nor with the week of prayer, nor with
the day of prayer for colleges. These occasions were all used, but our extra meetings did not
begin until the desire for them and the feeling of our great need of the Divine blessing had
grown strong in the church, nor until they had been talked and prayed over, prepared and planned
for.

The meetings were held for a special purpose. They were for the salvation of the students of
the College. Students and church members, teachers, professors, president and pastor--we all
felt this truth. But when every member of the College who felt that he was not a Christian,
was asked to write his or her name on a slip of paper, and put it into the contribution basket
at the chapel door when coming into the first meeting--and lest any should fail, from any cause,
to give us his own name, every student was asked to furnish the name of any unsaved fellow-student
of whom he knew--the real object sought in the meetings was brought home to every member of
the College and Church. When we had the list of names (with hardly an exception they furnished
their own names), we were vividly reminded of the individuals for whom we were working and
praying, and they knew, every one, that we were definitely working and praying for them. This
gave a feeling of practical, concentrated work, such as seldom attends such meetings.

Excepting this, there were no unusual means employed. The truth was very earnestly and simply
preached. Immediate decision for Christ was pressed. Personal efforts were conscientiously
made by teachers and students. Little prayer meetings, where from two to a dozen met for special
prayer, were frequent, and the Lord blessed all the means used.

Since the close of the protracted meeting, each Sabbath-school class has had its own weekly
prayer meeting--a means of great good. Also a general young Christians' prayer meeting has
been held weekly. In it effort has been made, not only to lead these new converts to take part
in prayer and conference, but to instruct them upon some points too often neglected. Those
who on this day united with the church could each, I think, give an intelligent statement of
reasons why they should unite with the church; and, in so uniting, why they gave public assent
to a confession of faith, and why they joined in covenant with God and his people.

  MASON NOBLE.

       *       *       *       *       *

LETTER FROM REV. J. H. PARR, AUSTIN, TEXAS.

Marked revivals have been in progress in all the colored churches of the city. With all the
noise and superstition, we cannot doubt that there are not a few genuine conversions. And yet,
while our students attend these meetings only to a limited extent, the influence upon them
tends to interfere with our religious work.

Last week it was my privilege to attend the meeting of the North Texas Association, held at
Cleburne. Tillotson church, on application, was cordially admitted to membership. The same
cordiality and courtesy were extended to Brother McLean, late of Talladega College, who applied
for membership in his own behalf. Rev. J. W. Roberts, representing the colored church of Dallas,
was also present. The dignified, scholarly bearing of both these brethren won for them golden
opinions from all who listened to their reports and remarks. Not a few of those who were present
at the various sessions were Southerners, but apparently none the less interested on that account.
It was my fortune to be entertained by an ex-slaveholder, who served in the Confederate army
through the war, but who nevertheless is a warm friend of the Congregational church in his
town, and contributes to its support.

The moderator and scribe of the association, seated side by side through the meetings, presented
a striking contrast. The first was a business man, born in New England, quick, keen, decisive
and energetic, an officer in the Union army through the war, since that time engaged in business
in Texas, now the possessor of a large fortune, and thoroughly identified with, and enthusiastic
concerning, the material and spiritual interests of his adopted State.

The second was the pastor of the leading Congregational Church of the State, born in the South,
educated for the law, a soldier in the Confederate army, for a time almost a wreck morally
and physically, but now, by the grace of God, "clothed and in his right mind," dignified, magnetic,
an earnest, reverent student of the Bible, an able preacher and a beloved pastor.

Thus, with representatives of the North and the South, the East and the West, the white race
and the black, America, Sweden and Ireland, we had at least one marked feature of the Pentecost.
But aside from that, the manifest presence of the Spirit, and the consequent harmony and good-fellowship,
rendered our meeting in a still more important degree like that season which was the beginning
of such a wonderful regeneration in the history of the world. It may be accepted, I doubt not,
as one of the signs of the regeneration that is going on in the South, which is less wonderful
only in the fact of being local rather than world-wide.

       *       *       *       *       *

THE OLD COMMISSARY BUILDING.

We held a series of revival meetings at South Williamsburgh, in the old commissary building.
Wish some of the good people of the North, who meet in churches and chapels, plastered and
nicely warmed, and comfortably seated, could have dropped in upon us and spent an hour. Of
course, they would have had the back-ache and cold feet, and, perhaps, carried away a flea
or two, even in March, but they would have gone home saying, "If people can meet in such a
place, some refined, intelligent ladies even, and continue to go night after night, I ought
to be very, very willing to go to my church whenever the Lord calls a meeting and my presence
and voice are necessary." But that you may appreciate the contrast with your pleasant place
of meeting, let me take you to the old commissary building.

It's a box-house; that is, it's made of boards set upright and nailed at the bottom and middle
and top to joists. Over this crazy structure sets a roof made of long oaken shingles hewn with
the broad axe. Step inside of the building, which will hold 125 people, and see the whole construction.
Rough boards with the curve of the circular saw on them and now dingy with smoke, make the
sides; oaken shingles black with smoke, slope above.

A "cannon stove" sends most of its smoke through a rusty pipe up through a piece of sheet iron
to the air. The sparks, and now and then a star, shine through about the pipe. Newspapers pasted
over the widest cracks on the sides of the room keep out the heaviest drafts. I remember one
night when it was snowing (even here, in March), a flurry of wind brought down a glistening
shower on the shoulders of the congregation. The roof usually turns water, however.

Please stand here by the door and talk to the people. Feet get cold? I don't wonder. The door
was made an inch and a half too short. You ask "why in the name of health don't you fix it?"
Well, just sit there against the wall. You sit down, and a projecting horizontal joist takes
you right in the back of the neck and makes you crane your head forward in a most uncomfortable
way. Poor place to get asleep; one would pitch right forward on the floor. You see, if we commenced
to "fix up," we wouldn't know where to begin, for one lack is as great as another. One night
we held a meeting in that building, and before morning the thermometer fell to zero. We need
a good stove; that one is full of cracks in front, so we always left a boy to watch after meeting
till the fire died out. We just make the house do; strips have been laid on the floor, paper
pasted over the wall gaps, seats of rough boards set in the building, windows tightened, and
there we gathered. God's Spirit met us in spite of cold and dinginess and needs. I believe
ten or twelve rose for prayers during those two weeks. Since warm weather Brother Myers has
continued the meetings, and I trust a score or more have given their hearts to the Lord.

  JAS. T. FORD.

       *       *       *       *       *

STUDENT'S LETTER.

  TALLADEGA COLLEGE, Talladega, Ala., April, 1885.

It is wonderful to notice how many and what interesting changes may take place during the few
years of one's life. The first eleven years of my life I spent as a slave, but I have lived
to see these glorious days of freedom. I was born upon my master's plantation in Monroe County,
Ala., where I lived till 1865, when I was set at liberty with the rest of my unfortunate brethren.

While living upon that plantation I saw many of the horrors of slavery with my own eyes. One
of the mean and degrading things I remember was the way the slaves had to live, crowded together
in one house. There were three or four different families, consisting of twelve or fifteen
persons, all living in the same room. There was only one house for colored people, and it had
only one room.

Although my master did not have so many slaves and was not so mean as some other slave-holders
about him, still, the treatment which his slaves received was shockingly cruel. I remember
very distinctly the paddling block, the paddle, and the great whip used upon that place. There
comes very vividly before my mind the whipping of a hired man. I know just how every rag of
clothes was taken off, and how he was tied down in the front yard between the gate and the
house, so that he could not move hand or foot, and how the master would whip him a while and
walk about and smoke his pipe a while, as the poor hired slave lay upon the ground and cried
for mercy, but there was none to help him.

Whenever my thoughts go back to those dark days, I recollect the time when my own brother ran
away because he was not willing to take the whipping which the master wanted to give him late
one afternoon. I think of how the bloodhounds came, and how they chased him, while mother,
brothers, and fellow-slaves stood trembling, and how glad all were when we learned that the
dogs could not catch him.

If I could forget all other heart-rending scenes of those dark days, I could not erase from
my memory the cruel treatment which I saw my own mother receive. Though I was small, I think
of how I used to see her work hard, and how she was scolded and cursed as she was driven about
like a dog. I saw her laid upon that paddling-block, and I heard her distressing cries, but,
like the rest of her children, I could do nothing.

I love to contrast my present condition with what it was a few years ago, and as I do so I
do not forget the A. M. A., whose workers found me in the lowest depths of ignorance and helped
me up. When liberated, soon after the surrender, I could not read a word and did not know a
letter. I do not remember that I had ever seen the inside of a book of any kind. It was in
1867 that I learnt the alphabet upon the plantation by the light of pine knots. During the
years 1868 and 1869 I was a rag-picker in the streets of Mobile. God has led me on, and now
I am a student in Talladega College, and expect soon to have finished a course of study which
will enable me to go forth to lead men to Christ and to teach them better methods of living.
I speak of this contrast not boastfully, but humbly and with deep gratitude to God, who took
me from the woes and degradation of slavery and has given me a double freedom. I am so glad
for the schools the A. M. A. has in the South; I am so glad for what they have done for me.
Through one of these schools I was led to Christ. Soon after that I felt called to the ministry;
and in Talladega College I am permitted to finish a course of study, and to some degree equip
myself for the work of life. All praise to an organization that seeks for poor, ignorant and
sinful men, leads them to Christ, instructs them, and then sends them out to bless the world.

  A STUDENT.

       *       *       *       *       *

OBITUARY.

       *       *       *       *       *

MRS. H. M. STEVENS.

Another veteran teacher of the A. M. A. has been called home to her rest. On the morning of
May 7, at her home in St. Albans, Vt., Mrs. H. M. Stevens, known to A. M. A. workers as Miss
E. M. Barnes, of Bakersfield, Vt., fell asleep after a severe and painful sickness of several
mouths.

Miss Barnes entered the service of the Association in 1865 and left it in 1882, to minister
to her devoted friend and fellow laborer, Miss Sarah A. G. Stevens, in her last sickness. When
released from this service of love her own health prevented her return to the Southern work.
Her first year was spent at Arlington, Va. She spent six years in the Lewis High School, Macon,
Ga., four years in the Le Moyne Institute, Memphis, Tenn., and her last six in Fisk University--seventeen
years of devoted, earnest and fruitful labor in behalf of the colored youth in the South.

Since leaving the South her life has been a pleasant and useful one as Mrs. Stevens, the wife
of a devoted husband and an earnest and zealous Christian woman in the city and the church
where her lot was cast. The testimony to her nobility and earnestness of character was manifested
in signal ways by the church and people during her sickness, and she has evidently left behind
a precious memory of her short life in St. Albans. I have before me a letter written to a teacher
in Fisk University less than three weeks before her death, and it will interest her friends
to learn how the years of her life which she spent in the work of giving help to the struggling
colored youth of the South looked to her as she lay upon her dying bed in her pleasant home
surrounded by the friends that loved her so well.

She wrote: "I thank the Lord for the years He gave me in that Southern land. Those seventeen
years were the hardest, happiest and most satisfying of my life. I have ever thanked God for
giving me a place among that noble band of workers. I have arranged to establish a permanent
scholarship at Fisk, so that my influence will still live there after I am gone. I loved the
work there more than any other I have ever done. In all my weakness I am resting in the Everlasting
Arms, and find there strength sufficient to support, trusting entirely to the blood that cleanseth
from all sin and saves unto the uttermost."

The news of Mrs. Stevens' death was telegraphed to Fisk University, and on the Sunday night
following, an impressive memorial service was held in the chapel of Livingstone Hall. The story
of her life and labors, as told by those who knew her well, produced a deep impression upon
the students, and will bear in their lives fruit in greater consecration and the spirit of
self-sacrifice. The testimony borne by several of the young men who were about to graduate,
and one who had already graduated, to the influence exerted on their lives and character by
Mrs. Stevens was the highest tribute that could have been paid to the gentleness, nobility
and spirituality of her character. To her counsel, encouragement and sympathy they felt they
were indebted for their best inspiration. Her influence lives in the world, and will continue
to increase through the lives and labors of others whom she led to the feet of their Lord,
and to consecration to the uplifting of their race. May the spirit of Mrs. Stevens continue
to be the spirit of those who represent the A. M. A. in its work for the uplifting of a depressed
but struggling race!

  E. M. CRAVATH.

       *       *       *       *       *

MISS O. E. GOODRIDGE.

Died, at Talladega, Ala., May 25, 1885, Miss O. E. Goodridge, of Saratoga Springs, N. Y.

Miss Goodridge was born in St. Lawrence County, N. Y., of a godly and New England ancestry.
She became a Christian in her earliest years and joined the church when but a child. From the
beginning she was instructed in the Scriptures, which can make wise unto salvation, and her
nature, less rugged than that of some, was well perfected by grace. Seeking usefulness in needy
fields, she offered herself to the A. M. A., and last year began her work in Talladega, where
she proved herself a devoted and successful teacher, a woman of great refinement and goodness,
and a faithful servant of Christ. Herself a disciple sitting at Jesus' feet, she never forgot
her Master in her teaching, while her unconscious influence was powerful for good. Her illness
was but of a few days' duration, nor was it considered fatal until within a few hours of the
end. Winning in person and of rare beauty of character, she has greatly endeared herself to
her associates and to all who knew her. Though death came suddenly it did not find her unprepared.
Her hope was in Christ, and her end was a peaceful falling asleep.

  H. S. DE FOREST.

       *       *       *       *       *

BUREAU OF WOMAN'S WORK.

       *       *       *       *       *

MISS D. E. EMERSON, SECRETARY.

We are glad to report a movement in favor of State organizations for woman's work in our own
country in co-operation with the Am. Home Miss. Soc., the Am. Miss. Assoc., the New West Ed.
Com., etc. At a special meeting called at Saratoga on June 4, action was taken by the representatives
of the several Woman's Missionary Societies, advocating the formation of State societies, whose
object should be to co-operate with the established societies of the Congregational order,
in raising funds and increasing intelligence respecting missionary work in this country.

       *       *       *       *       *

Two years ago the ladies of Vermont pledged the support of one teacher at McIntosh, Ga., but
increased their contributions until they assumed the entire support of the school. A year ago
they undertook the expense of an addition to the school building, to be called the "Vermont
School." In connection with the State Association, at Bellows Falls, a ladies' meeting was
held on Wednesday morning, June 10, in behalf of the American Missionary Association, addressed
by their teacher, Miss Plimpton, and by Miss Emerson, Secretary of the Woman's Bureau. The
following report was submitted by the State Committee:

     The committee re-appointed by the convention held at St. Albans
     last June, to raise money for the school for the freedmen in
     McIntosh, Ga., desires to present the following report for the
     year:

     FOR THE YEAR ENDING MAY 31, 1885.

     Total contributions                                  $848.86
     Expenses of postage and printing                       11.16

     Remitted to H. W. Hubbard                             837.70
     Add balance on hand May, 1884                         259.28
                                                       ----------
       Total                                            $1,096.98

     Estimated expense of school this year      $856.00
     To apply on new building                    240.98
                                               -------- $1,096.98

Acknowledgment was also made for barrels and boxes of clothing, papers, books, toys and materials
for sewing school, with money sent to pay freight. Additional contributions are expected before
Sept. 30, to apply on the new school building.

       *       *       *       *       *

At the recent meeting of the State Association of Illinois, held in Rockford, the ladies organized
the "Illinois Home Miss. Union." The constitution adopted embraces all home causes as embodied
in the following form:

     ARTICLE 1. This Society shall be called the Woman's Home
     Missionary Union of the State of ----. Its object shall be to
     promote missionary and evangelistic work in all parts of our
     land by forming auxiliaries in the churches of the State, and
     through them collecting money for the various existing societies
     of the Congregational order.

       *       *       *       *       *

A TRUE INCIDENT.

At a little junction in Wisconsin, a score of passengers alighting from a train were told that
the one they wished to take was four hours behind time. A big washout had swept away a bridge
or embankment. There were a few exclamations of dismay and impatience, as that four hours delay
meant the losing of other connections, the failure of many plans and appointments. It was a
cold, rainy day, with a raw, penetrating east wind that speedily drove them all into the close,
dismal waiting room. One woman, taking writing materials from a satchel, which she contrived
to use for a desk, became utterly oblivious to everything as her pencil flew over the letter
that would carry comfort and cheer to a far-off loved one. Suddenly she became conscious that
a score of people were sitting in complete silence around her, with not a book or paper to
read, looking as forlorn and miserable as possible. Laying aside her writing, she said, "My
husband and I are missionaries among the colored people in Alabama. I am now on my way back
to the work. Perhaps you might be interested to hear something about it, and if you care to
ask any questions, I will be very happy to answer them."

An old lady sitting near, bounced up in a great rage. "I don't want to hear a word about the
niggers." The rest of her muttered exclamations were lost as she rushed out, slamming the door
behind her.

The missionary began to tell them about the climate, the tropical luxuriance of fruit and flowers,
and of the great cotton fields. By that time questions began to pour in thick and fast, and
in less than five minutes she had an eager audience listening to every word. She went on to
tell of the condition of the colored people at the close of the war; ignorant, utterly destitute,
with no more knowledge than a baby of how to shift for themselves; of the hard struggle it
had been and still was for many of them to live; of the miserable pittance they generally received
for their labor; of their home life, their peculiarities, and other things of interest.

About that time the irate woman, unable longer to endure the discomfort of the weather outside,
came quietly in, looking rather disgusted at the prospect of being obliged, after all, to hear
something about "the niggers."

The recital of some special incidents of peculiar trial and hardship which had come under the
missionary's own observation brought tears of sympathy to many eyes; but best of all was the
sudden conversion of our wrathful woman, who exclaimed: "I declare that's too bad! What makes
them stand it? Why don't they all come North, where they could have a fair chance?" As she
was told "the reason why," she grew full of sympathy and interest, and was even more eager
than the others in suggestions and inquiries. But when they were told of what had already been
done by the American Missionary Association and others toward establishing and maintaining
schools and churches among them, of the devoted missionaries and teachers that had carried
already so much of comfort and help into their sad lives, of the steady upward progress they
were making in knowledge and intelligence, in the acquirement of homes and ability to care
for themselves, all seemed to appreciate as never before the importance of the work that is
being done in the South.

The distant whistle of the train surprised them all, and as they crowded about the missionary
to take her hand and bid her God speed in her blessed work, one woman said: "I used to give
pennies to the work of the A. M. A., but they shall be dollars now."

  MRS. A. W. C.

       *       *       *       *       *

CHILDREN'S PAGE.

       *       *       *       *       *

THE LITTLE BLACK GIRL'S SACRIFICE.

BY MRS. M. E. SANGSTER

Little Ida had been invited to attend a party made by white children at the school house. To
her mother's mind the question of her going turned on her having a scarlet sash to wear. By
the kindness of a child in the family where Ida and her mother, who figures in our story as
"Aunt Chloe," had their home, the want was finally met.

Now for the story of the scarlet sash, after it became Ida's property. She wore it to the party,
where she laughed and sang, and played games, and looked like a poppy among the roses. She
behaved very politely, too, like a well-trained child whose mother had lived in the "fust families."

After that, she wore it in church and to Sunday-school. It looped itself beautifully over her
best, brown striped dress, and gave her the sense of being equal in appearance with the other
children.

Miss Raymond, her teacher, told me that Ida really seemed to understand the lesson better,
and to take more interest in reciting her golden text, after she came into possession of her
precious sash. It was so thick and soft and rich; it felt so nice to the little black fingers,
which every now and then stroked it lovingly. I am sure the sash was a means of grace to Ida.

Children who have everything they want, who are clothed in purple and fine linen every day,
cannot imagine how much delight a poor child sometimes takes in an innocent bit of finery.

Now, I want to tell you what became of the sash at last.

One day the superintendent at the Sunday-school asked the children to come to order, because
a lady was about to talk to them.

The lady was a missionary; her work had been somewhere a great way off, among people who had
hardly any money, and had a great deal of trouble to get bread and meat. Their minister, the
lady said, had to live in a house dug right out of the side of a hill. She had lived in such
a little bit of a house herself for a great many weeks. Poor as these people were, they had
built a little church, and were trying very hard to pay for it. They had not any singing-books
nor Bibles for their Sunday-school, nor any library-books; but the children thought nothing
of walking five miles or more to go to Sunday-school.

What would the children here in this lovely room give for those children in the far, far West?

It happened that Ida's teacher had lately talked to her class about the meanness of giving
to the Lord that which it cost them nothing to give. So when the collection-box was passed
around, they dropped in their pennies and silver-pieces, and those who had nothing with them
were told to bring their share on the next Sunday. And some of them began to plan their little
sacrifices.

Ida's dusky face was a study. Once or twice she paused, irresolute. At last, when school was
over, she whispered;

"Teacher, may I stay a moment?"

"Yes, dear," said Miss Raymond.

When the two were by themselves in the little half-circle where their class usually sat, Ida,
with trembling hands, untied the beloved sash, and, laying it on her teacher's lap, said, "Please,
Miss Raymond, this is the prettiest thing I've got, and I want to send it to the children who
haven't any Bibles."

"But the sash will do them no good, Ida."

"The worf of it will," replied the child; "and it's worf free dollars, any way; mammy said so."

Ida stooped down and kissed it; it was not giving what cost her nothing to part with her treasured
ribbon.

Mass Raymond took it with a tender look, rolled it up and carried it home.

One evening, in her parlor, she told its story to a party of young people, and then remarked:
"The sash ought to bring more than three dollars, when that little black girl gave it up so
cheerfully."

In a few moments there lay a little pile of silver and paper on the centre table, and Ida's
sash had brought eight dollars for the good cause. Before the week was over it had gone from
hand to hand, and the eight dollars became twenty without much difficulty.

Fanny said she thought we ought to send the sash back to Ida, or give her another one; but
no, that would have taken the sweetness from her self-denial.

She came to school without her ribbon, having been scolded by Aunt Chloe, who could not understand
her action, and thought it great folly; but all winter long there was a brave light in Ida's
dark face, and a contented expression in her eyes. She had given the scarlet sash for Christ's
sake, and he had blessed her deed, and owned her as one of his little ones. Happy Ida!

     ABRIDGED FROM S. S. TIMES.

       *       *       *       *       *

RECEIPTS FOR MAY, 1885.

       *       *       *       *       *

MAINE, $278.87.

  Augusta. Mrs. Skeeles' S. S. Class, for Student Aid,
    Talladega C.                                           $1.00
  Bangor. Central Cong. Ch. and Soc., 75; First Cong.
    Ch., 20.32                                              95.32
  Bath. Central Ch. and Soc.                                40.00
  Bethel. First Cong. Ch.                                    4.55
  Hallowell. Mrs. H. K. Baker                                5.00
  Limington. "A. B."                                         2.00
  North Bridgeton. Miss Proctor's Sch., for Wilmington,
    N. C.                                                   1.00
  Norway. Ladies, bbl. of C., for Wilmington, N. C.
  Saint Albans. Mrs. W. S. Sewall and family                 1.50
  Skowhegan. Ladies' Miss'y Soc., by A. L. Colby, Treas.     8.00
  South Berwick. Mrs. Hodgkins' S. S. Class, for Student
    Aid, Talladega C.                                      14.00
  South Paris. Cong. Ch.                                     6.50
  Union. Cong Ch., 4; Ladies' Soc., 4                        8.00
  Waterford. Centre Ch. Sab. Sch.                           10.00
  By Mrs. J. P. Hubbard, Treas. Woman's Aux., for
    Missionary, Selma, Ala. Albany, Mrs. Lovejoy,
    3.--Bridgeton, Miss Hale, 1.--Casco, Mrs. Mayberry,
    1.--Denmark, Ch., by Miss Davis, 2.--Orland, Ch., by
    Miss Buck, 23.--Portland, State St. Ch., 50; Rev. S.
    Longfellow, 2                                           82.00

NEW HAMPSHIRE, $202.60.

