I believe that the question of establishing a censorship of artists' names has been seriously
considered by Dr. ADDISON, in view of its bearing on public hygiene, and that he estimates
the cost of staffing the new department as not likely to exceed seven hundred and fifty thousand
pounds a year. Still, in these days when State economy is so needful, it would be better if
the desired effect were attained by the pressure of enlightened public opinion rather than
by the operations of even so inexpensive a department as that contemplated by the MINISTER
OF HEALTH.

       *       *       *       *       *

=AT THE PLAY.=

"FÉDORA."

It may or may not be well that the War has modified our estimate of the value of life; but
it is a bad thing for the legitimate drama. And in the case of Fédora the bloody régime of
LENIN has so paled our memory of the terrors of Nihilism that SARDOU'S play seems almost further
away from us than the tragedy of Agamemnon. In our callous incapacity to be thrilled by the
ancient horrors of forty years ago we fall back on the satisfaction to be got out of the author's
dexterity in the mechanics of his craft.

And here the critic's judgment is also apt to be more cold-blooded. He recognises the crude
improbability of certain details which are essential to the tragic development of the play.
The death of Count Vladimir (accented on the first or second syllable according to the temporary
emotion of the speaker) was due to the discovery of a letter in an unlocked drawer where it
could never possibly have been thrown, being an extremely private letter of assignation. The
death of Fédora, again, was the direct result of a letter which she despatched to Petersburg
denouncing a man who proved, in the light of fresh facts learned a few minutes later, to be
the last (or last but one) that she would wish to injure. It is incredible that she should
not have hastened to send a second letter withdrawing her charge; "instead of which" she goes
casually off on a honeymoon with his brother, and apparently never gives another thought to
the matter till it is fatally too late.

However, I am not really concerned at this time of day with the improbabilities of so well-established
a tragedy, but only with the most recent interpretation of it. And let me say at once that,
for the best of reasons, I do not propose to compete with the erudition of my fellow-critics
in the matter of previous interpreters, for I bring a virgin mind to my consideration of the
merits of the present cast.

Fédora is the most exhausting test to which Miss MARIE LÖHR has yet put her talent. The heroine's
emotions are worked at top-pressure almost throughout the play. At the very start she is torn
with passionate grief for the death of her lover and a still more passionate desire to take
vengeance on the man who killed him. When she learns the unworthiness of the one and the justification
of the other those emotions are instantly exchanged for a passionate worship of the late object
of her vengeance, to be followed by bitter remorse for the harm she has done him and terror
of the consequences when he comes to know the truth. And so to suicide.

I will confess that I was astonished at the power with which Miss LÖHR met these exigent demands
upon her emotional forces. It was indeed a remarkable performance. My only reservation is that
in one passage she was too anxious to convey to the audience the intensity of her remorse,
when it was a first necessity that she should conceal it from the other actor on the stage.
It was nice and loyal of Mr. BASIL RATHBONE to behave as if he didn't notice anything unusual,
but it must have been as patent to him as to us.

