  With a flower in my coat,
  With a keen eye for a vote,
  And a sense the things to note,
            Buff and Blue think,
  With fond millions to admire,
  A last triumph to desire,--
  Am I going to Retire?--
            What do you think?
  Oh, I know the quidnuncs vapour,
  And that Tadpole, yes, and Taper,
  Tell in many a twaddling paper,
            What the few think;
  But they cater for the classes,
  Whilst I'm champion of the masses,
  Fly before such braying asses?--
            What do you think?
  Wish is father to their thought,
  Their wild hope with fear is fraught.
  They are not au fait to aught
            Liberals true think.
  They imagine "Mr. Fox"
  Has delivered such hard knocks
  That impasse my pathway blocks!--
            What do you think?
  Just inspect me, if you please!
  Is my pose not marked by ease?
  Am I going at the knees,
            Like a "screw" Think!
  Pooh! The part of Sisyphus
  Suits me well. Why make a fuss?
  Eh? Retire,--and leave things thus?
            What do you think?
  On the--say the Lyric Stage--
  For some years I've been the rage,
  And some histrios touched by age
            Of Adieu think.
  But I'm like that "Awful Dad,"
  Though this makes my rivals mad,
  Don't true Gladdyites feel glad?
            What do you think?
  I'm a genuine Evergreen;
  It is that excites their spleen
  Who my lingering on the scene
            A great "do" think.
  I regret, so much, to tease them!
  My last exit would much ease them.
  But Retire!--and just to please them!
            What do you think?

    [Winks and walks round.

       *       *       *       *       *

A DREAMY MADNESS.

  The other night I went to bed,--
    It may seem strange, but still I did it,--
  And laid to rest my weary head
    So that the bed-clothes nearly hid it;
  Which was perhaps the reason why
    My brain throughout the night was teeming
  With truly wondrous sights, and I
    Was wholly given o'er to dreaming.

  'Twas on the Twenty-first of May,
    The streets were filled to overflowing,
  The streets, that in a curious way
    Were clean although it kept on snowing.
  The daily papers for a change
    Came out each day without a leader,
  But, what was surely rather strange,
    They didn't lose a single reader!

  I saw a Bishop in a tram,
    Although he knew it was a Sunday;
  The lion lay down with the lamb,
    And CLEMENT SCOTT with SYDNEY GRUNDY.
  Professor HUXLEY said, "In truth
    I'm really sick to death of rows," and
  Wrote there and then to General BOOTH
    To put his name down for a thousand.

  I heard that Mr. PARNELL wrote
    (Much to McCARTHY's jubilation)
  A very kind and civil note,
    In which he sent his resignation;
  Whilst ANDREW LANG with weary air
    Professed himself completely staggered
  To think how anyone could care
    To read a line of RIDER HAGGARD.

  The House of Commons talked about
    The case of Mr. BRADLAUGH--whether
  The Motion which has kept him out
    Should now be struck out altogether;
  And OLD MORALITY arose
    To say they felt no ancient animus,
  And when they voted, why of Noes
    There wasn't one--they were unanimous!

         *       *       *       *       *

  I started up, no more to sleep,
    The dream somehow had seemed to spoil it,
  Nor did it take me long to leap
    Out of my bed and make my toilet.
  I went down-stairs, and with surprise
    I thought of those my dream had slandered,
  And there, before my very eyes,
    I saw it printed in the STANDARD!

  I wish I hadn't gone to bed.
    I can't imagine why I did it.
  Nor why I laid my weary head
    So that the clothes completely hid it.
  Although I think that must be why
    My brain has ever since been teeming;
  But tell me (if you can) am I
    At present mad, or was I dreaming?

       *       *       *       *       *

       *       *       *       *       *

       *       *       *       *       *

OUR ADVERTISERS.

       *       *       *       *       *

LITHONODENDRIKON, the new indestructible cloth.

       *       *       *       *       *

LITHONODENDRIKON is a stubborn and inflexible material.

       *       *       *       *       *

LITHONODENDRIKON is made, by a new process, from blockwood and paving-stones.

       *       *       *       *       *

LITHONODENDRIKON, used for gentlemen's coats, will not only keep out rain and wind, but thunder
and lightning.

       *       *       *       *       *

LITHONODENDRIKON never breaks or bends, but only bursts.

       *       *       *       *       *

LITHONODENDRIKON.--A "PURCHASER" writes--"I sat down in a pair of your trousers, but could
never get up again."

       *       *       *       *       *

LITHONODENDRIKON.--Another "CUSTOMER" says--"The dress-coat you supplied me with fitted me
well. I could not take it off without having recourse to a sledge-hammer."

       *       *       *       *       *

UPPER HOUSE COAL COMPANY supply the cheapest and worst in the market.

       *       *       *       *       *

UPPER HOUSE COAL COMPANY, hand-picked by the Duke himself, on whose property the mines are
situated.

       *       *       *       *       *

UPPER HOUSE COAL COMPANY, carefully selected, screened and delivered (in the dark), anywhere
within a ten-mile radius of Charing Cross at 9s. 6d, a ton, for cash on delivery.

       *       *       *       *       *

UPPER HOUSE COAL COMPANY supply a wonderful article at the price. Throws down a heavy brown
ash. No flame, no heat. Frequently explodes, scattering the contents of the grate over the
largest room.

       *       *       *       *       *

UPPER HOUSE COAL COMPANY beg to refer intending purchasers to the accompanying testimonial:
"Gentlemen,--Do what I will, I cannot get your coals to light. Put on in sufficient quantity
they will extinguish any fire. I have worn out three drawing-room pokers in my endeavours to
stir them into a flame, but all to no purpose. Steeped in petroleum, they might possibly ignite
in a double-draught furnace, though I fancy they would put it out. They are as you advertise
them, a 'show coal for summer use.' Don't send me any more."

       *       *       *       *       *

CHARLIE AND SARAH.

DEAR MR. PUNCH,--Why should ARISTOTLE be the only author whose works get discovered? I found
the following story, written on papyrus, and enclosed in a copper cylinder, in my back garden,
and I am positive that it is not ARISTOTLE. Can it possibly have been written by that amiable
and instructive authoress whose stories for children have recently been reprinted? Yours, &c.,
HENRY ST. OTLE.

CHARLIE was a very obedient little boy, and his sister SARAH was a good, patient little girl.
One beautiful summer's day they went to stay for a week with their Uncle WILLIAM, a man of
very high principles, who was not quite used to the proper method with children. On the evening
of their arrival, as they were seated in front of the fire, CHARLIE lifted up his bright, obedient,
beautiful face, and said, thoughtfully:

"Pray, Uncle WILLIAM, cannot we have one of those instructive and amusing conversations such
as children love, about refraction, and relativity, and initial velocity, and Mesopotamia generally?"

"Oh, yes, Uncle WILLIAM!" said SARAH, pausing to wipe her patient little nose; "Our dear Papa
is always so pleasant and polysyllabic on these subjects."

Then Uncle WILLIAM regretted that he had paid less attention in his youth to the shilling science
primers, but he pulled himself together and determined to do his best. "Certainly, my dear
children, nothing could please me more. Now here I have a jug and a glass. You will observe
that I pour some water from the jug into the glass. This illustrates one of the properties
of water. Can you tell me what I mean?"

"Fluidity!" said both the children, with enthusiasm.

"Yes, quite so, and--er--er--has a brick fluidity?"

"Why, no, Uncle WILLIAM!"

"Well--er--why hasn't it?" asked Uncle WILLIAM, with something almost like desperation in his
voice.

"That, Uncle," said the obedient CHARLIE, "is one of the things which we should like to learn
from you to-night."

"Yes, we shall come to that; but, in order to make you understand it better, I must carry my
experiment a little further. In this decanter I have what is called whiskey. I pour some of
it into the water. Now it is more usual to put the whiskey in first, and the water afterwards.
Can you tell me why that is so? Think it out for yourselves." And Uncle WILLIAM smiled genially.

There was silence for a few moments. Then little SARAH said, timidly: "I think it must be because,
when a man wishes to drink, whiskey is the first thing which naturally occurs to his mind.
He does not think about water until afterwards."

"Quite right. That is the explanation of the scientists. And why do you think I put in the
water first and the whiskey afterwards?"

"It was," said CHARLIE, brightly, "in order that we might not see so exactly how much whiskey
you took."

"No, that's quite wrong. I did it out of sheer originality. Now what would happen if I drank
this curious mixture?"

"You would be breaking the pledge, Uncle WILLIAM," said both children, promptly and heartily.

"Wrong again. I should be acting under doctor's orders."

"Why hasn't a brick any fluidity?" asked SARAH, patiently.

"Don't interrupt, my dear child. We're coming to that. Now, CHARLIE, when you eat or drink
anything, where does it go?"

"It goes into my little--oh, no, Uncle, I cannot say that word," and CHARLIE, who was of a
singularly modest and refined disposition, buried his face in his hands, and blushed deeply.

"Admirable!" exclaimed Uncle WILLIAM. "One cannot be too refined. Call it the blank. It goes
into your blank. Well, whiskey raises the tone of the blank. Just as, when you screw up the
peg of a violin, you raise the tone of the string. By drinking this I raise the tone of my
blank." He suited the action to the word.

"Now you'll be screwed," said CHARLIE, "like the pegs of the--"

"On one glass of weak whiskey-and-water--never!"

"But why hasn't a brick any fluidity?" asked SARAH, quite patiently.

"First of all, listen to this. That whiskey-and-water is now inside me. I want you to understand
what inside means. Go and stand in the passage, and shut the door of this room after you."

"But, Uncle," said SARAH, patiently, "why hasn't a brick any--"

"Hush, SARAH, hush!" said the obedient CHARLIE. "It is our duty to obey Uncle WILLIAM in all
things."

So the two children went out of the room, and shut the door after them. Uncle WILLIAM went
to the door, and locked it.

"Now then," he said, cheerily, "I am inside. And where are you?"

"Outside."

"Yes--and outside you'll stop. One of the servants will put you to bed." And Uncle WILLIAM
went back to the decanter.

       *       *       *       *       *

       *       *       *       *       *

A DEAD FROST.

  When I saw you on "a January morning,"
    With a very little pair of skates indeed,
  And the frosty glow your fairy face adorning,
    I was suddenly from other passions freed.
  And the year at its imperial beginning
  Showed the woman who alone was worth the winning;
  Though the growing flame awhile I tried to smother
            Like a brother;
  And that's a very common phase indeed,
            As we read.

  My hat and stick I suddenly found fleeting,
    And they whistled o'er the surface, smooth and black,
  And the ice, with an unwonted warmth of greeting,
    Slapt me suddenly and hard upon the back.
  I didn't mind your laughing, if the laughter
  Had left no sting of scorn to rankle after.
  Though I'd joyously have flung myself before you
            To adore you,
  Still to sit with all one's might upon the ice
            Isn't nice.

  When I met you in the lordly local ball-room,
    Where you queen'd it, the suburban world's desire,
  Though your programme for my name had left but small room,
    I somehow snatched five valses from the fire.
  And I did stout supper-service for your mother,
  While you wove the self-same spells o'er many another,
  And I said, no doubt, the sort of things that they did,
            In the shaded
  Little nook beneath the palms upon the stair,
            To my fair.

  But I noticed, as I learned to know you better,
    And you ceased to wile the victim at your feet,
  There was very little silk about the fetter,
    And 'twere flattery to say your sway was sweet:
  Nay, you made the light and airy shrine of beauty
  A centre for the most exacting duty,
  And the fealty of the family undoubting
            Met with flouting,
  As a tribute which was nothing but your due,
            As they knew.

  Your Papa is getting elderly and bulky,
    And he loves you as the apple of his eye,
  Yet very little things will make you sulky,
    And to meet his little ways you never try.
  And I see him look a trifle hurt and puzzled,
  And his love for you is often check'd and muzzled;
  Yet I think, upon the whole, that I would rather
            Be your father,
  Than the lover you could torture at your ease,
            If you please.

       *       *       *       *       *

STRANGE, BUT TRUE.

Sir,--Under the heading of "Ecclesiastical Intelligence" in the Times of Saturday, I read that,
"The LORD CHANCELLOR has preferred the Rev. W.R. WELCH, of Hull, to the Vicarage of Withernwick,
East Yorkshire," I presume the LORD CHANCELLOR knows both the gentleman and the place thoroughly,
and so wisely elects which he prefers; but to one who, like myself and thousands of others,
know neither, it strikes me that I would certainly prefer the place to the parson, however
worthy. It is, indeed, gratifying to see that the Highest Representative of Law and Order in
the realm, after HER GRACIOUS MAJESTY, is so utterly uninfluenced by any mercenary motives.
I send this by Private Post, an old soldier, and am yours enthusiastically,

NOODLE DE NOODLE.

The Retreat, Hanwell-on-Sea.

       *       *       *       *       *

"BETTER LATE THAN NEVER."--Two Jurymen, says a paragraph in last Saturday's Times, wrote to
the Solicitor acting for a female prisoner, one CUTLER, who had been convicted of perjury and
sentenced at Chester, to say that they "gave in to a verdict of Guilty because it was very
late, and one gentleman had an important business engagement at home." This recalls the line,
"And wretches hang that Jurymen may dine." The remainder of ELLEN CUTLER's sentence of five
years' penal servitude is remitted. It is satisfactory to know that these two had the courage
of their opinions before it was too late. A little coolness sprung up between him and CAVENDISH
BENTINCK about those staircases in Westminster Hall. But chacun a son idea of a staircase.
PLUNKET quite as likely to be right as C.B. Always doing something to improve arrangements
of House. Does it quietly, too; Members know nothing about it till they come down and find
new Smoking-room, fresh arrangements of lights, new rooms for Ministers, and occasionally a
priceless old table adorning Tea-room. Various accounts of its origin. Some say Magna Charta
signed on it. Others fixing earlier date and attracted by the initials "W.R." clearly carved
on left leg, affirm that it is the very table on which WILLIAM REX took his five o'clock tea
after Battle of Hastings.

