"There isn't anything really hideous here," she murmured to herself; "but I think that puppy--it's
never had its tail cut, and nobody will ever know whether it's a sealyham, a spaniel or even
a dash of a setter--I will take the puppy, please," she added, "as soon as I've had some tea.
After that I will see what is left. You have such nice things."

After tea she went back to the youngest Miss Dodd and collected a few more of the more glaring
atrocities, paid her bills, and then went off to her pony-carriage; the youngest Miss Dodd,
very much inclined to giggle, bearing armfuls of odd purchases in her wake, crowned by the
bowl of cream and the mongrel pup. She handed them in and was just going away when the little
old lady pressed a piece of paper into her hand.

"I don't like to worry people," she said gently, "but if you have time you might read this.
It has been a great opportunity to-day; I don't often find so much to be done--and I shall
love the puppy."

The youngest Miss Dodd watched the start of the ugly pony with a snigger and then went back
into the lighted hall to read the pamphlet. It was a touching little document--many people
know it well--and the youngest Miss Dodd, who had never been known to sentimentalize over anything
before, blew her nose rather violently when she had read it.

"Bless her dear little soul!" she said to herself: "I don't wonder that pup was trying to kiss
her. I only hope she won't try to eat that cream with the glass in it, or give it to the pup."
For the pamphlet was the Rules for Membership and a treatise on the Objects and Methods of
the "Society for Buying What Nobody Wants."

       *       *       *       *       *

MORE PROFITEERING.

"Beautiful champagne broche silk crepe de chine blouse; open neck; one button; cost 2s. 6d.;
accept 15s."--The Lady.

       *       *       *       *       *

       *       *       *       *       *

CONVERSIONS.

  There was an exuberant flapper
  Who made people anxious to slap her;
    She uttered loud squeals
    And she smoked at all meals;
  Now she's married an elderly sapper.

  There was a mild don who was muddy
  In mind and complexion by study;
    Now he flies fast and far,
    With a cross and a bar,
  And his face and his language are ruddy.

       *       *       *       *       *

    "BRITISH FRONT REINFORCED.

    "BY PERCIVAL PHILLIPS."

    Daily Paper.

Intrepid fellows, our war correspondents. What a pity there are so few of them!

       *       *       *       *       *

    "A long, keen dagger will be supplied to every American
    infantryman going to France. This weapon will be fitted into
    one of the fighting men's leggings when he goes into action,
    so he will have something to fall back on should his bayonet
    fail."--Canadian Paper.

If he's going to fall back on it, we hope the sharp end won't be at the top.

       *       *       *       *       *

       *       *       *       *       *

THE CLYDE-BUILT CLIPPER.

    [Many of the fast-sailing clippers which were making fine passages
    in the Australian wool trade in the 'seventies and onwards were
    laid up or turned into hulks before the War. Recently, however,
    several have been re-fitted for sea and are once more doing good
    service.]

  A ship there was, and she went to sea
    (Away O, my Clyde-built clipper!)
  In eighteen hundred and seventy-three,
  Fine in the lines and keen in the bow,
  The way they've forgotten to build 'em now:
  Lofty masted and heavily sparred,
  With stunsail booms to every yard,
  And flying kites both high and low
  To catch the wands when they did blow
    (And away, my Clyde-built clipper!).

  Fastest ship on the Colonies run--
    (Away O, my racing clipper!)
  That was her when her time begun;
  Sixteen knots she could easily do,
  And thirteen knots on a bowline too;
  She could show her heels to anything made
  With sky-sails set in a favouring trade,
  Or when she was running her easting down
  From London River to Hobart Town
    (And away, my racing clipper!).

  Old shellbacks knew her near and far
    (Away O, my old-time clipper!)
  From Circular Quay to Mersey Bar,
  And many a thundering lie they told
  About her runs in the days of old;
  But the time did come and the time did go,
  And she grew old as we all must grow,
  And the most of her gear was carried away
  When caught aback in a gale one day
    (And away, my old-time clipper!).

  Her masts were sprung from fore to mizen
    (Away O, my poor old clipper!)
  And freights was poor and dues had risen,
  And there warn't no sense in rigging her new,
  So they laid her up for a year or two;
  And there they left her, and there she lay,
  And there she might have been laying to-day,
  But when cargoes are many and ships are few
  A ship's a ship be she old or new
    (And away, my poor old clipper!).

  So in nineteen hundred and seventeen
    (Away O, my brave old clipper!)
  They've rigged her new and they've scraped her clean
  And sent her to sea in time of war
  To sail the seas as she sailed before.
  And in nineteen hundred and seventeen
  She's the same good ship as she's always been;
  Her ribs are as staunch and her hull's as sound
  As any you'd find the wide world round
    (And away, my brave old clipper!).

  C.F.S.

       *       *       *       *       *

       *       *       *       *       *

ESSENCE OF PARLIAMENT.

Monday, December 10th.--One would gather from the hoardings that the Government wished to encourage
the sale of War Bonds by every possible means. Yet the CHANCELLOR OF THE EXCHEQUER threw cold
water on the efforts of certain firms to increase the sale by the offer of cash prizes, and
thought it undesirable that this inducement should be imitated. The advocates of Premium Bonds
were a little depressed by this announcement, but cheered up somewhat on observing that the
conscientious CHANCELLOR has no intention of refusing the millions already raked into the Treasury
by these "schemes of doubtful legality."

On the vote for an increase of fifty thousand men for the Navy Mr. GEORGE LAMBERT solemnly
announced that the Admiralty was "fumbling with a magnificent weapon." It is distressing to
think that a body which for nearly ten years enjoyed his services as Civil Lord should have
deteriorated so rapidly since he left it.

Mr. LYNCH does not think much of the new scheme for securing unity of effort among the Allies.
He called it "the analogue of the Aulic Council" (pronounced "Owlic," to give more effect to
the description).

The Chequers Estate Bill passed through all its stages amid a chorus of praise, despite the
injunction of the generous donors that there should be "no flowers."

Tuesday, December 11th.--After all, London is to have the BARNARD statue, despite the protest
of Lord CHARNWOOD, LINCOLN'S latest biographer, that it is not a portrait of his hero, but
of a man whose only connection with the PRESIDENT was that he was born in the same neighbourhood.
Against this Lord WEARDALE quoted Mr. ROOSEVELT'S description of the statue as "the Lincoln
we all knew and loved." As Mr. ROOSEVELT had reached the mature age of six when LINCOLN was
assassinated the COMMISSIONER OF WORKS seems to have regarded his testimony as conclusive.

At the request of Mr. KING the Peers are to be allowed to listen to the secret debates of the
Commons, if any of them desire to do so. The hon. Member having expressed a hope that the Peers
would grant reciprocal facilities to the Commons, Mr. HOGGE kindly suggested that the Government
should grant him "all the privileges of the House of Lords." But Mr. BONAR LAW declined to
deprive the House of Commons in that way of one of its brightest ornaments; so the "Mad Hatter"
will not be called upon just yet awhile to exchange his traditional headgear for a coronet.

I presume some Members of Parliament know what "non-ferrous metals" are, and what is the object
of the Bill which the Government has introduced to deal with them. But the views which they
took on the subject were so obscurely divergent that all I could gather from the debate was
that in some way or other the measure was intended to be a nasty knock for German trade. That
was good enough for the House at large, which passed the Second Reading by a substantial majority.

Wednesday, December 12th.--Mr. PRINGLE, having asserted that candidates for appointments under
the War Office were successful simply on account of possessing a "pull" with the Selection
Department, was quietly reminded by the UNDER-SECRETARY that he himself had attempted to use
his influence on behalf of a candidate. Mr. PRINGLE was righteously indignant. He had never
asked favours of the War Office; he had merely "recommended men personally known to me." This
delicate distinction, which should have convinced Members of Mr. PRINGLE'S disinterestedness,
only made them laugh. It is, perhaps, a pity that he did not content himself with this epitome
and refuse to be drawn into a discussion of the recent operations near Cambrai. What has Mr.
DILLON done to promote the prosecution of the War that he should receive special consideration?

There was a renewed discussion of the censorship of pamphlets. Sir GEORGE CAVE ably defended
the regulations, but did not convince everyone that his preference for confiscation over prosecution
was entirely sound. The idea that the publishers of these pamphlets would welcome advertisement
is probably erroneous, or why was it necessary to insist that they should put their names to them?

Mr. SPENCER HUGHES'S humorous attack upon the CENSOR was much applauded on the Liberal benches.
Some of the more brilliant passages would have received even wider appreciation if a good many
Members had not heard them a week before from the lips of Mr. AUGUSTINE BIRRELL at a non-political
luncheon.

Thursday, December 13th.--Lord BERESFORD charged the PRIME MINISTER with having two voices,
like Caliban's monster. Lord CURZON flatly declined to accept the suggestion that Cabinet Ministers
were collectively responsible for one another's speeches--"they had far more serious things
to think of." The phrase seems a little depreciatory, but as Mr. LLOYD GEORGE, according to
his candid colleague, is "constitutionally an optimist" he will no doubt make the best of it.

Mr. HOUSTON was informed that sweets "for military, naval or civil consumption" were still
being imported, but that the Ministry of Shipping made no special provision for their carriage.
No one, therefore, need grudge Sir ERIC GEDDES the lozenge which he so ostentatiously popped
into his mouth just before making his speech on Admiralty administration, or inquire too curiously
whether it was consumed by him in his capacity of Major-General, Vice-Admiral or Civilian Minister.

Despite the warning of the SPEAKER that it was not in the national interest to embarrass the
Administration, Mr. KING insisted on trying to discuss forbidden topics. At last Lord ROBERT
CECIL "espied strangers," and we must assume that, without the vivifying presence of the reporters,
Mr. KING'S oratory wilted, for an hour afterwards the House was up.

       *       *       *       *       *

       *       *       *       *       *

THE REWARD OF PATRIOTISM.

"Major ---- has placed the mansion at the disposal of the War Office, and will be in charge
of Sister ----."--Provincial Paper.

       *       *       *       *       *

THINGS OVERHEARD IN WAR-TIME.

"There couldn't be room there for all the Jews, could there?"

       *       *       *       *       *

"After waiting two hours I got half-a-pound."

       *       *       *       *       *

"It should be made compulsory."

       *       *       *       *       *

"Wherever else these matches strike, they won't strike on the box."

       *       *       *       *       *

"I just turned over and went to sleep again."

       *       *       *       *       *

"I wish the Government would tell me what I could do for them."

       *       *       *       *       *

"Oh, another three years."

       *       *       *       *       *

"What puzzles me is--Where is the paper shortage?"

       *       *       *       *       *

"We keep a gramophone in the basement now."

       *       *       *       *       *

"No one is more willing than I am to do something."

       *       *       *       *       *

"It's the children's festival--that's what I always say."

       *       *       *       *       *

HERBS OF GRACE.

IX.

PENNYROYAL.--A CAROL.

  "Far away in Sicily!"--
    A home-come sailor sang this rhyme,
  Deep in an ingle, mug on knee,
    At Christmas time.

  In Sicily, as I was told,
    The children take them Pennyroyal,
  The same as lurks on hill and wold
    In Cotsall soil.

  The Pennyroyal of grace divine
    In little cradles they do weave--
  Little cradles therewith they line
    On Christmas Eve.

  And there, as midnight bells awake
    The Day of Birth, as they do tell,
  All into bud the small plants break
    With sweetest smell.

  All into bud that very hour;
    And pure and clean, as they do say,
  The Pennyroyal's full in flower
    On Christmas Day.

  Far away in Sicily!--
    Hark, the Christmas bells do chime!
  So blossom love in thee and me
    This Christmas time!

  W.B.

       *       *       *       *       *

       *       *       *       *       *

THE V.C.

My cousin Agatha has been a bad correspondent ever since she married my old friend, George
Thimblewell, which means for the past five-and-twenty years, so in ordinary circumstances I
do not expect more from her than a "hasty line" to tell me how the youngsters are doing (George,
of course, never writes at all). But I must say I was surprised and not a little hurt when,
in the skimpy margin of a letter dealing mainly with the difficulty of devising breakfast-dishes,
she scribbled in the most casual manner conceivable, "George has got the V.C. at last."

George, my dear old school-chum, with the V.C., and his wife tells me of it as casually as
if it had been a gumboil! I sat with her letter before me and looked back through the years,
seeing us two--George and myself--as we were long before Agatha even knew him. Had I not fostered
the yearning for heroic deeds in his young bosom? Was it not possible, nay probable, that the
influence of his boyhood's companion had helped to mould his character and prepare it for this
glorious if belated achievement? Upon my word it seemed to me that I myself might well take
a certain amount of credit for that decoration. And here was his wife mentioning it as though
she scarcely expected me to be interested. Never a date, never a detail.

I was so ruffled that I decided, since she vouchsafed no information, to ask for none, as became
a man with proper pride. I adopted a semi-jocular vein to meet the case.

"I have known your V.C. longer than you have, Agatha," I wrote, "and am as pleased and proud
as you can be. The strong silent type--you can rely upon them. Quiet and domesticated, requiring
little attention, helpful about the house, undemonstrative perhaps, but all the time ready
for the most desperate emergency. Let me know when George is to be at home, and I shall come
to dinner and hear all about it."

As I sealed my note it occurred to me that George must be the first special constable to win
the Cross, and I felt a glow of satisfaction to realise that we must now be eligible for that
most glorious of all decorations.

A few days later came another note from Agatha, about sugar-cards this time, but with a postscript
which said, "It isn't like you to chaff me, James. I don't see that there is anything particularly
funny about George having got the Vacuum Cleaner which he promised me long ago."

       *       *       *       *       *

BIG GAME.

    "General Allenby reports that Budrus and Sheikh Obeid Rahid, to
    the north of Midieh, were captured by Gurkhas, 50 Tanks being
    killed and 10 taken prisoners."--Evening Paper.

       *       *       *       *       *

    "Ruler wanted, experienced, male or female (male preferred); wages
    according to ability; removal assistance; away from raid area;
    permanency to suitable applicant."--Eastern Daily Press.

This might suit the KAISER, when Sir DOUGLAS HAIG has provided the necessary "removal assistance."

       *       *       *       *       *

    "WHERE EX-TSAR KEEPS HIS GLOOMY COURT.

    "Built mostly of wood, the Imperial family occupies a brick
    mansion."--News of the World.

We are intended to infer, presumably, that if the Imperial Family had been constructed of stouter
material it might still be in the Winter Palace.

       *       *       *       *       *

       *       *       *       *       *

TO THE REGIMENT.

A CHRISTMAS MESSAGE.

  So Christmas comes and finds you yet in Flanders,
    And all is mud and messiness and sleet,
  And men have temperatures and horses glanders,
    And Brigadiers have trouble with their feet,
  And life is bad for Company-Commanders,
    And even Thomas's is not so sweet.

  Now cooks for kindlewood would give great riches,
    And in the dixies the pale stew congeals,
  And ration-parties are not free from hitches,
    But all night circle like performing seals,
  Till morning breaks and everybody pitches
    Into a hole some other person's meals.

  Now regiments huddle over last week's ashes
    And pray for coal and sedulously "rest,"
  Where rain and wind contemn the empty sashes,
    And blue lips frame the faint heroic jest,
  Till some near howitzer goes off and smashes
    The only window that the town possessed.

  Yet somehow Christmas in your souls is stirring,
    And Colonels now less viciously upbraid
  Their Transport Officers, however erring,
    And sudden signals issue from Brigade
  To say next Tuesday Christmas is occurring,
    And what arrangements have Battalions made?

  And then, maybe, while everyone discusses
    On what rich foods their dear commands shall dine,
  And (most efficiently) the Padre fusses
    About the birds, the speeches and the wine--
  The Corps-Commander sends a fleet of 'buses
    To whisk you off to Christmas in the line.

  You make no moan, nor hint at how you're faring,
    And here in turn we try to hide our woe,
  With taxis mutinous, and Tubes so wearing,
    And who can tell where all the matches go?
  And all our doors and windows want repairing,
    But can we get a man to mend them? No.

  The dustman visits not; we can't get castor;
    In vain are parlour-maids and plumbers sought,
  And human intellect can scarcely master
    The time when beer may lawfully be bought,
  Or calculate how cash can go much faster,
    And if one's butcher's acting as he ought.

  Our old indulgences are now not cricket;
    Whate'er one does some Minister will cuss;
  In Tube and Tram young ladies punch one's ticket,
    With whom one can't be cross or querulous;
  All things are different, but still we stick it,
    And humbly hope we help a little thus.

  So, Fellow-sufferers, we give you greeting--
    All luck, all laughter and an end of wars!
  And just to strengthen you for Fritz's beating,
    I'm sending out a parcel from the Stores;
  They mean to stop my annual over-eating,
    But it will comfort me to think of yours.

  A.P.H.

       *       *       *       *       *

THE BANK'S MISTAKE.

"I wish," said Francesca, "you would explain something to me."

"I am full," I said, "of explanations of every conceivable difficulty. You have only to tap
me and an explanation will come bubbling out."

"I am not sure that I want the bubbling sort. On the whole I think I prefer the still waters
that run deep."

"Those too can be provided for you. All you have got to do is to ask."

"What a comfort it is," she said, "to live constantly in the mild and magnificent eye of an
encyclopædia."

"Yes," I said, "it saves a lot of running about, doesn't it? Come now, fire off your question."

"What is your opinion of the Bank of England?"

"The Bank of England?" I gasped. "One doesn't have opinions of the Bank of England. One just
accepts it, you know, and there you are."

"Yes," she said, "that's exactly what I felt about it. I thought it was one of the signs of
our superiority to everybody else, with its crisp banknotes and all that."

"You mustn't forget its detachment of the Guards to protect it. Many's the good dinner I've
had with the officer of the Bank Guard in the old days."

"I'm afraid that leaves me cold, not being able to take part in it."

"If it gave me pleasure to dine at the Bank, I should have thought the subject would have interested
you."

"Well, it wasn't exactly what I wanted to consult you about."

"What was it then?" I said. "You know you mustn't cast doubts on the financial stability of
the Bank. You'll be put in prison if you do."

"I shouldn't dream of doing anything of the sort."

"Come, then, be quick about it. This suspense is making me tremble for my War Loan Bonds."

"Is the Bank," said Francesca, "a generous institution?"

"Banks," I said, "cannot afford to be generous. They are just and accurate and there's an end
of it."

"The Bank of England," she said, "being so great, is an exception to the rule. Anyhow, it has
been generous to me, for it has given me one hundred pounds."

"Do you mean," I cried, "one hundred pounds that don't belong to you?"

"Of course I do. If they had belonged to me there wouldn't have been anything to make a fuss
about."

"This," I said, "is one of the most breathless things ever known. A mere woman, who is unskilled
in finance and has only the dimmest recollection of the rule of three and compound interest,
gets the better of the greatest banking institution in the world to the tune of one hundred
pounds. It's incredible. Of course you've made a mistake."

"That's right," she said. "Always go against your wife and think her wrong, even when it is
only an institution that she's contending with."

"It's precisely because it is an institution that I doubt your statement."

"You're not very helpful; you don't tell me whether I'm to sit down under the burden of owning
one hundred pounds of the bank's money that doesn't belong to me."

"Francesca," I said, "you must calm yourself and tell me as clearly as possible how you came
into possession of this extra hundred pounds which is apparently burning a hole in your pocket--if
indeed you have a pocket, which I doubt."

"You're quite wrong; I've got two pockets in the dress I'm wearing at this moment."

"I will not," I said, "discuss with you the number of your pockets. Now tell me your pathetic
story. I am all ears."

"Well," said Francesca, "it's this way. I put one hundred pounds in the old War Loan, and then
Exchequer Bonds came along, and I put one hundred pounds of my very best savings into them,
and then came the new Five per Cent. War Loan, and somehow or other I got converted into that.
And after that there was what they called a broken amount, which I brought up to fifty pounds
or a multiple of fifty pounds. That cost me about forty pounds. I don't know why they wanted
me to do it or why I did it."

"Probably they thought it would be easier for the Bank."

"That's paltry; easiness ought to have nothing to do with it."

"Anyhow," I said, "I make out from your statement that you ought to have two hundred and fifty
pounds of Five per Cent. Stock to your credit."

"Precisely," said Francesca impressively, "but yesterday morning I received from the bank a
dividend thing--"

"You may call it a warrant," I said.

"A dividend warrant," continued Francesca, "for eight pounds fifteen shillings on three hundred
and fifty pounds, so what have you got to say now for your precious Bank of England?"

"Your tale," I said, "has interested me strangely, but there is one point you omitted to mention."

"I am innocent, my Lord," said Francesca. "I have told you the truth."

"But not the whole truth, prisoner at the bar. Don't you remember that when the new Loan came
out you borrowed money from me in order to take up one hundred pounds of it?"

"Is that it?" said Francesca. "No, I hadn't remembered that."

"Of course," I said, "a financial magnate like yourself would easily forget so wretched a sum;
but the Bank has done no wrong."

"Yes, it has; it sent out a lot of papers that were very confusing, and it's no wonder I made
a mistake."

"The question in my mind," I said, "is this: when are you going to repay what you owe me--with
interest?"

"We'll talk about that another time," said Francesca.

R.C.L.

       *       *       *       *       *

FOR OUR SAILORS AND SOLDIERS.

The Veterans Association is giving a Special Entertainment at the Alhambra on Sunday afternoon,
December 30th, on behalf of their Imperial Memorial Fund which is being raised to expand the
Veterans Club into an adequate Institution for the comfort of ex-sailors and ex-soldiers, and
to provide an Imperial Memorial for those who have given their lives in the War. The Veterans
Club in Hand Court, Holborn, has already done a great work during the six or seven years of
its existence in looking after sailors and soldiers. Free medical and legal advice is given,
and the homes of the men are protected by the storing of their furniture while they are on
active service. Employment is also found for soldiers and sailors whose service is done. For
the Entertainment at the Alhambra on the 30th, the following artistes, among others, have generously
volunteered their services: Miss VIOLET LORAINE, Miss PHYLLIS MONCKMAN, Miss WISH WYNNE, Miss
ESMÉ BERINGER, Messrs. LAURI DE FRECE, MARK LESTER, HERBERT GROVER and GEORGE ROBEY.

       *       *       *       *       *

ANOTHER SEX PROBLEM.

    "Henry III. was Queen Mary's brother-in-law, she having been
    for a short time the husband of his predecessor, Francis
    II."--The Sphere.

       *       *       *       *       *

       *       *       *       *       *

OUR BOOKING-OFFICE.

(BY MR. PUNCH'S STAFF OF LEARNED CLERKS.)

One of the most interesting features, to an English observer, in the impressive spectacle of
America girding herself for war is the sight of our great Ally passing through all those phases
of initiation that to us are now remote memories. Such a phase is the coming of the first war-books,
exemplified for me by the appearance of From the Fire Step (PUTNAMS). As his sub-title indicates--Experiences
of an American Soldier in the British Army--the writer, Mr. ARTHUR GUY EMPEY, has proved himself
something of a pioneer. In a singularly vivacious opening chapter he tells how, after waiting
with decreasing expectation during the months that followed the Lusitania crime, he decided
to be a law unto himself, and came alone to offer his personal service in the cause of freedom.
You will hardly read unmoved (by laughter as much as by sympathy) his story of how this offer
was at first refused, then accepted. Throughout indeed you must prepare to find Mr. EMPEY an
entirely independent, though generous, critic of our men and methods; it is precisely this
attitude that gives his book its chief interest as a survey of all-too-familiar things from
a refreshingly new angle. I hardly suppose there will be anything in the actual matter, from
church parade to gas-attacks, which readers on this side will not by now have seen or heard
about, times beyond number; but one can imagine sympathetically with what concern it will all
be received in the homes oversea; and after turning its high-spirited and encouraging pages
can warmly echo the admonition of their writer: "Pacifists and small-army people please read
with care!"

       *       *       *       *       *

Since there is probably no writer who can approach Mrs. FLORA ANNIE STEEL in the art of telling
Indian tales about Indian people, one is specially happy to find her in Mistress of Men (HEINEMANN)
with her foot once more upon her special terrain. Not for the first time, I think, she has
gone to the records of the House of AKBAR for her material; the result here is hardly to be
called a novel so much as amplified history, since it is really the life story of an actual
(and wonderful) woman, NURJAHÂN THE BEAUTIFUL, wife of the Emperor JAHÂNGIR. Naturally the
writer has experienced not only the great advantages but the hazards of such a building upon
fact. To explain the marriage of your heroine with the Imperial lover by whose orders her first
husband was killed, and not to lessen sympathy for her in the process, is a problem to test
the skill of any novelist. One sees, however, even without Mrs. STEEL'S own declaration, that
it has been for her a grateful task to set down "a record of the most perfect passion ever
shown by man for woman." This was the adoration of the EMPEROR for his consort, an amazing
romance of Oriental domesticity, which makes the story of the pair stranger and more fascinating
than fiction. A love-tale indeed; and, since 'tis love that makes a book go round, one may
trust the circulating libraries to see to it that Mistress of Men is well represented on their
shelves. As a study of an alluring, dazzling and masterful personality it was well worth writing.

       *       *       *       *       *

There is a sad interest in the title-page of Irish Memories (LONGMANS), since only by a pathetic
fiction does it bear the names, as joint authors, of E. OE. SOMERVILLE and "MARTIN ROSS," those
two gifted ladies whose association has been such a happy chance for them and for us all. Really
the book, though in part compiled from the letters and journals of "MARTIN," is an eloquent
tribute by Miss SOMERVILLE to the partner whose death has robbed her of a friend and the world
of so much kindly laughter. But, haunted as it is by this shadow of bereavement, you must in
no way think of it as wholly a thing of gloom. Looking back into the good years, the writer
has recalled many incidents and scenes full of that genial and most infectious merriment that
we have learnt to expect from her--tales of the wonderful peasant chorus that one remembers
first in the pages of An Irish R.M., exploits after hounds (it needs no telling how well both
authors loved them), and much besides. There will be interest also for many uninitiated admirers
in the account here given of how the famous stories came first into being. Of its more intimate
and personal side I hesitate to speak; those who loved "MARTIN ROSS," either through her writings
or in the closer relationship of friend, must be glad that her ave atque vale has been spoken,
as she would have wished it, by her whose right it was. It will send many to read again those
delightful volumes with a new appreciation of the sympathetic and lovable personality that
helped in their making.

       *       *       *       *       *

