THE DECLARATION OF THE RIGHTS OF MAN AND OF CITIZENS

A Contribution to Modern Constitutional History

BY

GEORG JELLINEK, DR. PHIL. ET JUR.

Professor of Law in the University of Heidelberg

AUTHORIZED TRANSLATION FROM THE GERMAN

BY

MAX FARRAND, PH.D.

Professor of History in Wesleyan University

REVISED BY THE AUTHOR

NEW YORK

HENRY HOLT AND COMPANY

1901

Copyright, 1901.

BY

HENRY HOLT & CO.

ROBERT DRUMMOND, PRINTER, NEW YORK.

TRANSLATOR'S PREFACE.

Although several years have elapsed since this essay was published, it has apparently come
to the attention of only a few specialists, and those almost exclusively in modern European
history. It deserves consideration by all students of history, and it is of special importance
to those who are interested in the early constitutional history of the United States, for it
traces the origin of the enactment of bills of rights. In the hope that it will be brought
before a larger number of students who realize the significance of this question and who appreciate
genuine scholarly work, this essay is now translated.

M.F.

WESLEYAN UNIVERSITY, MIDDLETOWN, CT., March 1, 1901.

TABLE OF CONTENTS.

CHAPTER                                                              PAGE

I. THE FRENCH DECLARATION OF RIGHTS OF AUGUST 26, 1789, AND ITS SIGNIFICANCE              
1

II. ROUSSEAU'S "CONTRAT SOCIAL" WAS NOT THE SOURCE OF THIS DECLARATION                    
8

III. THE BILLS OF RIGHTS OF THE INDIVIDUAL STATES OF THE NORTH AMERICAN UNION WERE ITS MODELS
13

IV. VIRGINIA'S BILL OF RIGHTS AND THOSE OF THE OTHER NORTH AMERICAN STATES                
22

V. COMPARISON OF THE FRENCH AND AMERICAN DECLARATIONS                 27

VI. THE CONTRAST BETWEEN THE AMERICAN AND ENGLISH DECLARATIONS OF RIGHTS                  
43

VII. RELIGIOUS LIBERTY IN THE ANGLO-AMERICAN COLONIES THE SOURCE OF THE IDEA OF ESTABLISHING
BY LAW A UNIVERSAL RIGHT OF MAN                                                          59

VIII. THE CREATION OF A SYSTEM OF RIGHTS OF MAN AND OF CITIZENS DURING THE AMERICAN REVOLUTION
78

IX. THE RIGHTS OF MAN AND THE TEUTONIC CONCEPTION OF RIGHT            90

THE DECLARATION OF THE RIGHTS OF MAN AND OF CITIZENS.

CHAPTER I.

THE FRENCH DECLARATION OF RIGHTS OF AUGUST 26, 1789, AND ITS SIGNIFICANCE.

The declaration of "the rights of man and of citizens" by the French Constituent Assembly on
August 26, 1789, is one of the most significant events of the French Revolution. It has been
criticised from different points of view with directly opposing results. The political scientist
and the historian, thoroughly appreciating its importance, have repeatedly come to the conclusion
that the Declaration had no small part in the anarchy with which France was visited soon after
the storming of the Bastille. They point to its abstract phrases as ambiguous and therefore
dangerous, and as void of all political reality and practical statesmanship. Its empty pathos,
they say, confused the mind, disturbed calm judgment, aroused passions, and stifled the sense
of duty,--for of duty there is not a word.[1] Others, on the contrary, and especially Frenchmen,
have exalted it as a revelation in the world's history, as a catechism of the "principles of
1789" which form the eternal foundation of the state's structure, and they have glorified it
as the most precious gift that France has given to mankind.

Less regarded than its historical and political significance is the importance of this document
in the history of law, an importance which continues even to the present day. Whatever may
be the value or worthlessness of its general phrases, it is under the influence of this document
that the conception of the public rights of the individual has developed in the positive law
of the states of the European continent. Until it appeared public law literature recognized
the rights of heads of states, the privileges of class, and the privileges of individuals or
special corporations, but the general rights of subjects were to be found essentially only
in the form of duties on the part of the state, not in the form of definite legal claims of
the individual. The Declaration of the Rights of Man for the first time originated in all its
vigor in positive law the conception, which until then had been known only to natural law,
of the personal rights of the members of the state over against the state as a whole. This
was next seen in the first French constitution of September 3, 1791, which set forth, upon
the basis of a preceding declaration of rights, a list of droits naturels et civils as rights
that were guaranteed by the constitution.[2] Together with the right of suffrage, the "droits
garantis par la constitution", which were enumerated for the last time in the constitution
of November 4, 1848,[3] form to-day the basis of French theory and practice respecting the
personal public rights of the individual.[4] And under the influence of the French declaration
there have been introduced into almost all of the constitutions of the other Continental states
similar enumerations of rights, whose separate phrases and formulas, however, are more or less
adapted to the particular conditions of their respective states, and therefore frequently exhibit
wide differences in content.

In Germany most of the constitutions of the period prior to 1848 contained a section upon the
rights of subjects, and in the year 1848 the National Constitutional Convention at Frankfort
adopted "the fundamental rights of the German people", which were published on December 27,
1848, as Federal law. In spite of a resolution of the Bund of August 23, 1851, declaring these
rights null and void, they are of lasting importance, because many of their specifications
are to-day incorporated almost word for word in the existing Federal law.[5] These enumerations
of rights appear in greater numbers in the European constitutions of the period after 1848.
Thus, first of all, in the Prussian constitution of January 31, 1850, and in Austria's "Fundamental
Law of the State" of December 21, 1867, on the general rights of the state's citizens. And
more recently they have been incorporated in the constitutions of the new states in the Balkan
peninsula.

A noteworthy exception to this are the constitutions of the North German Confederation of July
26, 1867, and of the German Empire of April 16, 1871, which lack entirely any paragraph on
fundamental rights. The constitution of the Empire, however, could the better dispense with
such a declaration as it was already contained in most of the constitutions of the individual
states, and, as above stated, a series of Federal laws has enacted the most important principles
of the Frankfort fundamental rights. Besides, with the provisions of the Federal constitution
as to amendments, it was not necessary to make any special place for them in that instrument,
as the Reichstag, to whose especial care the guardianship of the fundamental rights must be
entrusted, has no difficult forms to observe in amending the constitution.[6] As a matter of
fact the public rights of the individual are much greater in the German Empire than in most
of the states where the fundamental rights are specifically set forth in the constitution.
This may be seen, for example, by a glance at the legislation and the judicial and administrative
practice in Austria.

But whatever may be one's opinion to-day upon the formulation of abstract principles, which
only become vitalized through the process of detailed legislation, as affecting the legal position
of the individual in the state, the fact that the recognition of such principles is historically
bound up with that first declaration of rights makes it an important task of constitutional
history to ascertain the origin of the French Declaration of Rights of 1789. The achievement
of this task is of great importance both in explaining the development of the modern state
and in understanding the position which this state assures to the individual. Thus far in the
works on public law various precursors of the declaration of the Constituent Assembly, from
Magna Charta to the American Declaration of Independence, have been enumerated and arranged
in regular sequence, yet any thorough investigation of the sources from which the French drew
is not to be found.

It is the prevailing opinion that the teachings of the Contrat Social gave the impulse to the
Declaration, and that its prototype was the Declaration of Independence of the thirteen United
States of North America. Let us first of all inquire into the correctness of these assumptions.
Jellinek, System der subjektiven öffentlichen Rechte, p. 3, n. 1.]

[Footnote 5: Binding, Der Versuch der Reichsgründung durch die Paulskirche, Leipzig, 1892, p. 23.]

[Footnote 6: When considering the constitution, the Reichstag rejected all proposals which
aimed to introduce fundamental rights. Cf. Bezold, Materialen der deutschen Reichsverfassung,
III, pp. 896-1010.]

CHAPTER II.

ROUSSEAU'S CONTRAT SOCIAL WAS NOT THE SOURCE OF THIS DECLARATION.

In his History of Political Science--the most comprehensive work of that kind which France
possesses--Paul Janet, after a thorough presentation of the Contrat Social, discusses the influence
which this work of Rousseau's exercised upon the Revolution. The idea of the declaration of
rights is to be traced back to Rousseau's teachings. What else is the declaration itself than
the formulation of the state contract according to Rousseau's ideas? And what are the several
rights but the stipulations and specifications of that contract?[7]

It is hard to understand how an authority upon the Contrat Social could make such a statement
though in accord with popular opinion.

The social contract has only one stipulation, namely, the complete transference to the community
of all the individual's rights.[8] The individual does not retain one particle of his rights
from the moment he enters the state.[9] Everything that he receives of the nature of right
he gets from the volonté générale, which is the sole judge of its own limits, and ought not
to be, and cannot be, restricted by the law of any power. Even property belongs to the individual
only by virtue of state concession. The social contract makes the state the master of the goods
of its members,[10] and the latter remain in possession only as the trustees of public property.[11]
Civil liberty consists simply of what is left to the individual after taking his duties as
a citizen into account.[12] These duties can only be imposed by law, and according to the social
contract the laws must be the same for all citizens. This is the only restriction upon the
sovereign power,[13] but it is a restriction which follows from the very nature of that power,
and it carries in itself its own guarantees.[14]

The conception of an original right, which man brings with him into society and which appears
as a restriction upon the rights of the sovereign, is specifically rejected by Rousseau. There
is no fundamental law which can be binding upon the whole people, not even the social contract
itself.[15]

The Declaration of Rights, however, would draw dividing lines between the state and the individual,
which the lawmaker should ever keep before his eyes as the limits that have been set him once
and for all by "the natural, inalienable and sacred rights of man."[16]

The principles of the Contrat Social are accordingly at enmity with every declaration of rights.
For from these principles there ensues not the right of the individual, but the omnipotence
of the common will, unrestricted by law. Taine comprehended better than Janet the consequences
of the Contrat Social.[17]

The Declaration of August 26, 1789, originated in opposition to the Contrat Social. The ideas
of the latter work exercised, indeed, a certain influence upon the style of some clauses of
the Declaration, but the conception of the Declaration itself must have come from some other
source.

FOOTNOTES:

[Footnote 7: "Est-il nécessaire de prouver, qu'un tel acte ne vient point de Montesquieu, mais
de J.-J. Rousseau?... Mais l'acte même de la déclaration est-il autre chose que le contrat
passé entre tous les membres de la communauté, selon les idées de Rousseau? N'est ce pas l'énonciation
des clauses et des conditions de ce contrat?"--Histoire de la science politique, 3me éd., pp.
457, 458.]

[Footnote 8: "Ces clauses, bien entendues, se réduisent toutes à une seule: savoir l'aliénation
totale de chaque associé avec tous ses droits à toute la communauté."--Du contrat social, I, 6.]

[Footnote 9: "De plus, l'aliénation se faisant sans réserve, l'union est aussi parfaite qu'elle
peut l'être et nul associé n'a plus rien à réclamer." I, 6.]

[Footnote 10: "Car l'État, à l'égard de ses membres, est maître de tous leurs biens par le
contrat social." I, 9.]

[Footnote 11: "... Les possesseurs étant considérés comme dépositaires du bien public." I, 9.]

[Footnote 12: "On convient que tout ce que chacun aliène, par le pacte social, de sa puissance,
de ses biens, de sa liberté, c'est seulement la partie de tout cela dont l'usage importe à
la communauté; mais il faut convenir aussi que le souverain seul est juge de cette importance."
II, 4.]

[Footnote 13: "Ainsi, par la nature du pacte, tout acte de souveraineté, c'est-à-dire toute
acte authentique de la volonté générale, oblige ou favorise également tous les citoyens." II, 4.]

[Footnote 14: "La puissance souverain n'a nul besoin de garant envers les sujets." I, 7.]

[Footnote 15: "Il est contre la nature du corps politique que le souverain s'impose une loi
qu'il ne puisse enfreindre ... il n'y a ni ne peut y avoir nulle espèce de loi fundamentale
obligatoire pour le corps du peuple, pas même le contrat social." I, 7.]

[Footnote 16: Constitution du 3 septembre 1791, titre premier: "Le pouvoir législatif ne pourra
faire aucune loi qui porte atteinte et mette obstacle à l'exercise de droits naturels et civils
consignés dans le présent titre, et garantis par la constitution."]

[Footnote 17: Cf.

The conception of a declaration of rights had found expression in France even before the assembling
of the States General. It had already appeared in a number of cahiers. The cahier of the Bailliage
of Nemours is well worth noting, as it contained a chapter entitled "On the Necessity of a
Declaration of the Rights of Man and of Citizens",[18] and sketched a plan of such a declaration
with thirty articles. Among other plans that in the cahier des tiers état of the city of Paris
has some interest.[19]

In the National Assembly, however, it was Lafayette who on July 11, 1789, made the motion to
enact a declaration of rights in connection with the constitution, and he therewith laid before
the assembly a plan of such a declaration.[20]

It is the prevailing opinion that Lafayette was inspired to make this motion by the North American
Declaration of Independence.[21] And this instrument is further declared to have been the model
that the Constituent Assembly had in mind in framing its declaration. The sharp, pointed style
and the practical character of the American document are cited by many as in praiseworthy contrast
to the confusing verbosity and dogmatic theory of the French Declaration.[22] Others bring
forward, as a more fitting object of comparison, the first amendments to the constitution of
the United States,[23] and even imagine that the latter exerted some influence upon the French
Declaration, in spite of the fact that they did not come into existence until after August
26, 1789. This error has arisen from the French Declaration of 1789 having been embodied word
for word in the Constitution of September 3, 1791, and so to one not familiar with French constitutional
history, and before whom only the texts of the constitutions themselves are lying, it seems
to bear a later date.

By practically all those, however, who look further back than the French Declaration it is
asserted that the Declaration of Independence of the United States on July 4, 1776, contains
the first exposition of a series of rights of man.[24]

Yet the American Declaration of Independence contains only a single paragraph that resembles
a declaration of rights.

This sentence is so general in its content that it is difficult to read into it, or deduct
from it, a whole system of rights. It is therefore, at the very start, improbable that it served
as the model for the French Declaration.

This conjecture becomes a certainty through Lafayette's own statement. In a place in his Memoirs,
that has as yet been completely overlooked, Lafayette mentions the model that he had in mind
when making his motion in the Constituent Assembly.[25] He very pertinently points out that
the Congress of the newly formed Confederation of North American free states was then in no
position to set up, for the separate colonies, which had already become sovereign states, rules
of right which would have binding force. He brings out the fact that in the Declaration of
Independence there are asserted only the principles of the sovereignty of the people and the
right to change the form of government. Other rights are included solely by implication from
the enumeration of the violations of right, which justified the separation from the mother country.

The constitutions of the separate states, however, were preceded by declarations of rights,
which were binding upon the people's representatives. The first state to set forth a declaration
of rights properly so called was Virginia.[26]

The declarations of Virginia and of the other individual American states were the sources of
Lafayette's proposition. They influenced not only Lafayette, but all who sought to bring about
a declaration of rights. Even the above-mentioned cahiers were affected by them.

The new constitutions of the separate American states were well known at that time in France.
As early as 1778 a French translation of them, dedicated to Franklin, had appeared in Switzerland.[27]
Another was published in 1783 at Benjamin Franklin's own instigation.[28] Their influence upon
the constitutional legislation of the French Revolution is by no means sufficiently recognized.
In Europe until quite recently only the Federal constitution was known, not the constitutions
of the individual states, which are assuming a very prominent place in modern constitutional
history. This must be evident from the fact, which is even yet unrecognized by some distinguished
historians and teachers of public law, that the individual American states had the first written
constitutions. In England and France the importance of the American state constitutions has
begun to be appreciated,[29] but in Germany they have remained as yet almost unnoticed. For
a long time, to be sure, the text of the older constitutions in their entirety were only with
difficulty accessible in Europe. But through the edition, prepared by order of the United States
Senate,[30] containing all the American constitutions since the very earliest period, one is
now in a position to become acquainted with these exceptionally important documents.

The French Declaration of Rights is for the most part copied from the American declarations
or "bills of rights".[31] All drafts of the French Declaration, from those of the cahiers to
the twenty-one proposals before the National Assembly, vary more or less from the original,
either in conciseness or in breadth, in cleverness or in awkwardness of expression. But so
far as substantial additions are concerned they present only doctrinaire statements of a purely
theoretical nature or elaborations, which belong to the realm of political metaphysics. To
enter upon them here is unnecessary. Let us confine ourselves to the completed work, the Declaration
as it was finally determined after long debate in the sessions from the twentieth to the twenty-sixth
of August.[32]

FOOTNOTES:

[Footnote 18: "De la nécessité d'établir quels sont les droits de l'homme et des citoyens,
et d'en faire une déclaration qu'ils puissent opposer à toutes les espèces d'injustice."--Archives
parlementaires I. Série, IV, pp. 161 et seq.]

[Footnote 19: Archives parl., V, pp. 281 et seq.]

[Footnote 20: Arch. parl., VIII, pp. 221, 222.]

[Footnote 21: Cf. e.g. H. v. Sybel, Geschichte der Revolutionszeit von 1789 bis 1800, 4. Aufl.,
I, p. 73.]

[Footnote 22: Cf. Häusser, Geschichte der franz. Revolution, 3. Aufl., p. 169; H. Schulze,
Lehrbuch des deutschen Staatsrechts, I, p. 368; Stahl, Staatslehre, 4. Aufl., p. 523; Taine,
loc. cit.: La révolution, I, p. 274: "Ici rien de semblable aux déclarations précises de la
Constitution américaine." In addition, note 1: cf. la Déclaration d'indépendance du 4 juillet
1776.]

[Footnote 23: Stahl, loc. cit., p. 524; Taine, loc. cit. The fact that Jefferson's proposal
to enact a declaration of rights was rejected is expressly emphasized in a note.]

[Footnote 24: Stahl, loc. cit., p. 523, does mention, in addition, the declarations of the
separate states, but he does not specify when they originated, nor in what relation they stand
to the French Declaration, and his comments show that he is not at all familiar with them.
Janet, loc. cit., I, p. v et seq., enters at length into the subject of the state declarations
in order to show the originality of the French, and he even makes the mistaken attempt to prove
French influence upon the American (p. xxxv). The more detailed history of the American declarations
he is quite ignorant of.]

[Footnote 25: Mémoires, correspondances et manuscripts du général Lafayette, publiés par sa
famille, II, p. 46.]

[Footnote 26: "Mais les constitutions que se donnèrent successivement les treize états, furent
précedées de déclarations des droits, dont les principes devaient servir de règles aux représentans
du peuple, soit aux conventions, soit dans les autres exercises de leur pouvoirs. La Virginie
fut la première à produire une déclaration des droits proprement dite."--Ibid., p. 47.]

[Footnote 27: Recueil des loix constitutives des colonies anglaises, confédérées sous la dénomination
d'États-Unis de l'Amérique-Septentrionale. Dédié à M. le Docteur Franklin. En suisse, chez
les libraires associés.]

[Footnote 28: Cf. Ch. Compiled by Ben: Perley Poore. Two vols., Washington, 1877. Only the
most important documents of the colonial period are included.]

[Footnote 31: This is not quite clear even to the best French authority on American history,
Laboulaye, as is evident from his treatment of the subject, Histoire des États-Unis, II, p. 11.]

[Footnote 32: Cf. Arch. Parl., VIII, pp. 461-489.]

CHAPTER IV.

VIRGINIA'S BILL OF RIGHTS AND THOSE OF THE OTHER NORTH AMERICAN STATES.

The Congress of the colonies, which were already resolved upon separation from the mother country,
while sitting in Philadelphia issued on May 15, 1776, an appeal to its constituents to give
themselves constitutions. Of the thirteen states that originally made up the Union, eleven
had responded to this appeal before the outbreak of the French Revolution. Two retained the
colonial charters that had been granted them by the English crown, and invested these documents
with the character of constitutions, namely, Connecticut the charter of 1662, and Rhode Island
that of 1663, so that these charters are the oldest written constitutions in the modern sense.[33]

Of the other states Virginia was the first to enact a constitution in the convention which
met at Williamsburg from May 6 to June 29, 1776. It was prefaced with a formal "bill of rights",[34]
which had been adopted by the convention on the twelfth of June. The author of this document
was George Mason, although Madison exercised a decided influence upon the form that was finally
adopted.[35] This declaration of Virginia's served as a pattern for all the others, even for
that of the Congress of the United States, which was issued three weeks later, and, as is well
known, was drawn up by Jefferson, a citizen of Virginia. In the other declarations there were
many stipulations formulated somewhat differently, and also many new particulars were added.[36]

Express declarations of rights had been formulated after Virginia's before 1789 in the constitutions
of

   Pennsylvania of September 28, 1776,
   Maryland of November 11, 1776,
   North Carolina of December 18, 1776,
   Vermont of July 8, 1777,[37]
   Massachusetts of March 2, 1780,
   New Hampshire of October 31, 1783, (in force June 2, 1784.)

In the oldest constitutions of New Jersey, South Carolina, New York and Georgia special bills
of rights are wanting, although they contain many provisions which belong in that category.[38]
The French translation of the American Constitutions of 1778 includes a déclaration expositive
des droits by Delaware that is lacking in Poore's collection.[39]

In the following section the separate articles of the French Declaration are placed in comparison
with the corresponding articles from the American declarations. Among the latter, however,
I have sought out only those that most nearly approach the form of expression in the French
text. But it must be once more strongly emphasized that the fundamental ideas of the American
declarations generally duplicate each other, so that the same stipulation reappears in different
form in the greater number of the bills of rights.

We shall leave out the introduction with which the Constituent Assembly prefaced its declaration,
and begin at once with the enumeration of the rights themselves. But even the introduction,
in which the National Assembly "en présence et sous les auspices de l'Être supréme" solemnly
proclaims the recognition and declaration of the rights of man and of citizens, and also sets
forth the significance of the same, is inspired by the declaration of Congress and by those
of many of the individual states with which the Americans sought to justify their separation
from the mother country.

FOOTNOTES:

[Footnote 33: Connecticut in 1818, and Rhode Island first in 1842, put new constitutions in
the place of the old Colonial Charters.]

[Footnote 34: Poore, II, pp. 1908, 1909.]

[Footnote 35: On the origin of Virginia's bill of rights, cf. Bancroft, History of the United
States, London, 1861, VII, chap. 64.]

[Footnote 36: Virginia's declaration has 16, that of Massachusetts 30, and Maryland's 42 articles.
Virginia's declaration does not include the right of emigration, which was first enacted in
Article XV of Pennsylvania's; the rights of assembling and petition are also lacking, which
were first found in the Pennsylvania bill of rights (Article XVI).]

[Footnote 37: Vermont's statehood was contested until 1790, and it was first recognized February
18, 1791, as an independent member of the United States.]

[Footnote 38: Religious liberty is recognized by New York in an especially emphatic manner,
Constitution of April 20, 1777, Art. XXXVIII. Poore, II, p. 1338.]

[Footnote 39: Pp. 151 et seq.

(The translator has reprinted this declaration in an article in the American Historical Review,
of July, 1898, entitled "The Delaware Bill of Rights of 1776".)]

CHAPTER V.

COMPARISON OF THE FRENCH AND AMERICAN DECLARATIONS.

ART. 1. Les hommes naissent et demeurent libres et égaux en droits. Les distinctions sociales
ne peuvent être fondées que sur l'utilité commune.

2. Le but de toute association politique est la conservation des droits naturels et imprescriptibles
de l'homme. Ces droits sont la liberté, la propriété, la sûreté et la résistance à l'oppression.

VIRGINIA, IV.

MASSACHUSETTS, Preamble to the Constitution. The end of the institution, maintenance, and administration
of government is to secure the existence of the body-politic, to protect it, and to furnish
the individuals who compose it with the power of enjoying, in safety and tranquillity, their
natural rights and the blessings of life.

MARYLAND, IV.

3. Le principe de toute souveraineté réside essentiellement dans la nation. Nul corps, nul
individu ne peut exercer d'autorité qui n'en émane expréssement.

4. La liberté consiste à pouvoir faire tout ce qui ne nuit pas à autrui; aussi l'exercise des
droits naturels de chaque homme n'a de bornes que celles qui assurent aux autres membres de
la société la jouissance de ces mêmes droits. Ces bornes ne peuvent être déterminées que par
la loi.

MASSACHUSETTS, Preamble.

MASSACHUSETTS, X. Each individual of the society has a right to be protected by it in the enjoyment
of his life, liberty, and property, according to standing laws.

5. La loi n'a le droit de défendre que les actions nuisibles à la société. Tout ce qui n'est
pas défendu par la loi ne peut être empêché et nul ne peut être contraint à faire ce qu'elle
n'ordonne pas.

MASSACHUSETTS, XI. Every subject of the commonwealth ought to find a certain remedy, by having
recourse to the laws, for all injuries or wrongs which he may receive in his person, property,
or character.

NORTH CAROLINA, XIII. That every freeman, restrained of his liberty, is entitled to a remedy,
to inquire into the lawfulness thereof, and to remove the same, if unlawful; and that such
remedy ought not to be denied or delayed.

VIRGINIA, VII. La loi est l'expression de la volonté générale. Tous les citoyens ont le droit
de concourir personnellement ou par leurs représentants à sa formation. Elle doit être la même
pour tous, soit qu'elle protège, soit qu'elle punisse. Tous les citoyens étant égaux à ses
yeux, sont également admissibles à toutes dignités, places et emplois publics, selon leur capacité,
et sans autre distinction que celle de leurs vertus et leurs talents.

MARYLAND, V. That the right in the people to participate in the Legislature, is the best security
of liberty, and the foundation of all free government.

MASSACHUSETTS, IX. All elections ought to be free;[41] and all the inhabitants of this commonwealth,
having such qualifications as they shall establish by their frame of government, have an equal
right to elect officers, and to be elected, for public employments.

NEW HAMPSHIRE, XII. Nor are the inhabitants of this State controllable by any other laws than
those to which they or their representative body have given their consent.

7. Nul homme ne peut être accusé, arrêté, ni détenu que dans les cas déterminés par la loi
et selon les formes qu'elle a prescrites. Ceux qui sollicitent, expédient, exécutent ou font
exécuter des ordres arbitraires, doivent être punis; mais tout citoyen appelé ou saisi en vertu
de la loi doit obéir à l'instant; il se rend coupable par sa résistance.

MASSACHUSETTS, XII. No subject shall be held to answer for any crimes or no offence until the
same is fully and plainly, substantially and formally, described to him; or be compelled to
accuse, or furnish evidence against himself; and every subject shall have a right to produce
all proofs that may be favorable to him; to meet the witnesses against him face to face, and
to be fully heard in his defence by himself, or his counsel at his election.

8. La loi ne doit établir que des peines strictement nécessaires et nul ne peut être puni qu'en
vertu d'une loi établie et promulguée antérieurement au délit et légalement appliquée.

NEW HAMPSHIRE, XVIII. All penalties ought to be proportioned to the nature of the offence.[43]

MARYLAND, XIV. That retrospective laws, punishing facts committed before the existence of such
laws, and by them only declared criminal, are oppressive, unjust, and incompatible with liberty;
wherefore no ex post facto law ought to be made.

9. Tout homme étant présumé innocent jusqu' à ce qu'il ait été déclaré coupable, s'il est jugé
indispensable de l'arrêter, toute rigueur qui ne serait pas nécessaire pour s'assurer de sa
personne doit être sévèrement réprimée par la loi.

Cf. above, MASSACHUSETTS, XII; further

MASSACHUSETTS, XIV. Every subject has a right to be secure from all unreasonable searches and
seizures of his person, his houses, his papers, and all his possessions.

MASSACHUSETTS, XXVI. Nul doit être inquiété pour ses opinions, même religieuses, pourvu que
leur manifestation ne trouble pas l'ordre public établi par la loi.

11. La libre communication des pensées et des opinions est un des droits les plus précieux
de l'homme; tout citoyen peut donc parler, écrire, imprimer librement sauf à répondre de l'abus
de cette liberté dans les cas determinés par la loi.

VIRGINIA, XII.

PENNSYLVANIA, XII. That the people have a right to freedom of speech, and of writing, and publishing
their sentiments.

12. La garantie des droits de l'homme et du citoyen nécessité une force publique. Cette force
est donc instituée pour l'avantage de tous, et non pour l'utilité particulière de ceux auxquels
elle est confiée.

13. Pour l'entretien de la force publique et pour les dépenses d'administration, une contribution
commune est indispensable; elle doit être également répartie entre tous les citoyens en raison
de leurs facultés. He is obliged, consequently, to contribute his share to the expense of this
protection; to give his personal service, or an equivalent, when necessary.

14. Tous les citoyens ont le droit de constater, par eux mêmes ou par leur représentants, la
nécessité de la contribution publique, de la consentir librement, d'en suivre l'emploi, et
d'en déterminer la qualité, l'assiette, le recouvrement et la durée.

MASSACHUSETTS, XXIII. No subsidy, charge, tax, impost, or duties, ought to be established,
fixed, laid or levied, under any pretext whatsoever, without the consent of the people, or
their representatives in the legislature.

15. La société a le droit de demander compte à tout agent public de son administration.

See above, VIRGINIA, II; further

MASSACHUSETTS V. All power residing originally in the people, and being derived from them,
the several magistrates and officers of government vested with authority, whether legislative,
executive, or judicial, are the substitutes and agents, and are at all times accountable to them.

16. Toute société, dans laquelle la garantie des droits n'est pas assurée, ni la séparation
des pouvoirs déterminée, n'a point de constitution.

NEW HAMPSHIRE, III. When men enter into a state of society, they surrender up some of their
natural rights to that society, in order to insure the protection of others; and without such
an equivalent, the surrender is void.

17. La propriété étant un droit inviolable et sacré, nul ne peut en être privé, si ce n'est
lors que la nécessité publique, légalement constatée, l'exige évidemment, et sous la condition
d'une juste et préalable indemnité.

MASSACHUSETTS, X. ... But no part of the property of any individual can, with justice, be taken
from him, or applied to public uses, without his own consent, or that of the representative
body of the people.... And whenever the public exigencies require that the property of any
individual should be appropriated to public uses, he shall receive a reasonable compensation
therefor.

VERMONT, II. That private property ought to be subservient to public uses, when necessity requires
it; nevertheless, whenever any particular man's property is taken for the use of the public,
the owner ought to receive an equivalent in money.

FOOTNOTES:

[Footnote 40: Cf. English Bill of Rights, 1.]

[Footnote 41: English Bill of Rights, 8.]

[Footnote 42: Magna Charta, 39.]

[Footnote 43: Magna Charta, 20.]

[Footnote 44: English Bill of Rights, 10.]

[Footnote 45: English Bill of Rights, 10.]

CHAPTER VI.

THE CONTRAST BETWEEN THE AMERICAN AND ENGLISH DECLARATIONS OF RIGHTS.

The comparison of the American and French declarations shows at once that the setting forth
of principles abstract, and therefore ambiguous, is common to both, as is also the pathos with
which they are recited. The French have not only adopted the American ideas, but even the form
they received on the other side of the ocean. But in contrast to the diffuseness of the Americans
the French are distinguished by a brevity characteristic of their language. Articles 4-6 of
the Declaration have the most specific French additions in the superfluous and meaningless
definitions of liberty[46] and law. Further, in Articles 4, 6 and 13 of the French text special
stress is laid upon equality before the law, while to the Americans, because of their social
conditions and democratic institutions, this seemed self-evident and so by them is only brought
out incidentally. In the French articles the influence of the Contrat Social will have been
recognized; but yet it brought out nothing essentially new, or unknown to the American stipulations.

The result that has been won is not without significance for the student of history in passing
judgment upon the effects of the French Declaration. The American states have developed with
their bills of rights into orderly commonwealths in which there has never been any complaint
that these propositions brought consequences disintegrating to the state. The disorders which
arose in France after the Declaration of the Rights of Man cannot therefore have been brought
about by its formulas alone. Much rather do they show what dangers may lie in the too hasty
adoption of foreign institutions. That is, the Americans in 1776 went on building upon foundations
that were with them long-standing. The French, on the other hand, tore up all the foundations
of their state's structure. What was in the one case a factor in the process of consolidation
served in the other as a cause of further disturbance. This was even recognized at the time
by sharp-sighted men, such as Lally-Tollendal[47] and, above all, Mirabeau.[48]

But from the consideration of the American bills of rights there arises a new problem for the
historian of law: How did Americans come to make legislative declarations of this sort?

To the superficial observer the answer seems simple. The very name points to English sources.
The Bill of Rights of 1689, the Habeas Corpus Act of 1679, the Petition of Right of 1628, and
finally the Magna Charta libertatum appear to be unquestionably the predecessors of the Virginia
bill of rights.

Assuredly the remembrance of these celebrated English enactments, which the Americans regarded
as an inherent part of the law of their land, had a substantial share in the declarations of
rights after 1776. Many stipulations from Magna Charta and the English Bill of Rights were
directly embodied by the Americans in their lists.

And yet a deep cleft separates the American declarations from the English enactments that have
been mentioned. The historian of the American Revolution says of the Virginia declaration that
it protested against all tyranny in the name of the eternal laws of man's being: "The English
petition of right in 1688 was historic and retrospective; the Virginia declaration came directly
out of the heart of nature and announced governing principles for all peoples in all future
times."[49]

The English laws that establish the rights of subjects are collectively and individually confirmations,
arising out of special conditions, or interpretations of existing law. Even Magna Charta contains
no new right, as Sir Edward Coke, the great authority on English law, perceived as early as
the beginning of the seventeenth century.[50] The English statutes are far removed from any
purpose to recognize general rights of man, and they have neither the power nor the intention
to restrict the legislative agents or to establish principles for future legislation. According
to English law Parliament is omnipotent and all statutes enacted or confirmed by it are of
equal value.

The American declarations, on the other hand, contain precepts which stand higher than the
ordinary lawmaker. In the Union, as well as in the individual states, there are separate organs
for ordinary and for constitutional legislation, and the judge watches over the observance
of the constitutional limitations by the ordinary legislative power. If in his judgment a law
infringes on the fundamental rights, he must forbid its enforcement. The declarations of rights
even at the present day are interpreted by the Americans as practical protections of the minority.[51]
This distinguishes them from the "guaranteed rights" of the European states. The American declarations
are not laws of a higher kind in name only, they are the creations of a higher lawmaker. In
Europe, it is true, the constitutions place formal difficulties in the way of changing their
specifications, but almost everywhere it is the lawmaker himself who decides upon the change.
Even in the Swiss Confederacy judicial control over the observance of these forms is nowhere
to be found, although there, as in the United States, the constitutional laws proceed from
other organs than those of the ordinary statutes.

The American bills of rights do not attempt merely to set forth certain principles for the
state's organization, but they seek above all to draw the boundary line between state and individual.
According to them the individual is not the possessor of rights through the state, but by his
own nature he has inalienable and indefeasible rights. The English laws know nothing of this.
They do not wish to recognize an eternal, natural right, but one inherited from their fathers,
"the old, undoubted rights of the English people."

The English conception of the rights of the subject is very clear upon this point. When one
looks through the Bill of Rights carefully, one finds but slight mention there of individual
rights. That laws should not be suspended, that there should be no dispensation from them,
that special courts should not be erected, that cruel punishments should not be inflicted,
that jurors ought to be duly impanelled and returned, that taxes should not be levied without
a law, nor a standing army kept without consent of Parliament, that parliamentary elections
should be free, and Parliament be held frequently--all these are not rights of the individual,
but duties of the government. Of the thirteen articles of the Bill of Rights only two contain
stipulations that are expressed in the form of rights of the subject,[52] while one refers
to freedom of speech in Parliament. When nevertheless all the stipulations of the Bill of Rights
are therein designated as rights and liberties of the English people,[53] it is through the
belief that restriction of the crown is at the same time right of the people.

This view grew directly out of the mediæval conception of the Teutonic state. While the ancient
state appears at the beginning of its history as [Greek: polis] or civitas, as an undivided
community of citizens, the monarchical Teutonic state is from the beginning dualistic in form,--prince
and people form no integral unity, but stand opposed to each other as independent factors.
And so the state in the conception of the time is substantially a relation of contract between
the two. The Roman and Canonical theory of law under the influence of ancient traditions even
as early as the eleventh century attempts to unite the two elements in that, upon the basis
of a contract, it either makes the people part with their rights to the prince, and accordingly
makes the government the state, or it considers the prince simply as the authorized agent of
the people and so makes the latter and the state identical. The prevailing opinion in public
law, however, especially since the rise of the state of estates, sees in the state a double
condition of contract between prince and people. The laws form the content of this compact.
They established, therefore, for the prince a right of demanding lawful obedience, and for
the people of demanding adherence to the limitations placed by the laws. The people accordingly
have a right to the fulfilment of the law by the prince. Thus all laws create personal rights
of the people, and the term people is thought of in a confused way as referring to the individuals
as well as to the whole--singuli et universi.[54] From this point of view it is a right of
the people that Parliament should be frequently summoned, that the judge should inflict no
cruel punishments, and however else the declarations of the English charters may read.

This conception of law as two-sided, establishing rights for both elements of the state, runs
through all the earlier English history. The right which is conferred by law passes from generation
to generation, it becomes hereditary and therefore acquirable by birth as one of the people.
Under Henry VI. it is declared of the law: "La ley est le plus haute inheritance que le roy
ad; car par la ley il même et toutes ses sujets sont rulés, et si la ley ne fuit, nul roy et
nul inheritance sera."[55] And in the Petition of Right Parliament makes the appeal that the
subjects have inherited their freedom through the laws.[56] The laws, as the Act of Settlement
expresses it, are the "birthright of the people".[57]

And so we find only ancient "rights and liberties" mentioned in the English laws of the seventeenth
century. Parliament is always demanding simply the confirmation of the "laws and statutes of
this realm", that is, the strengthening of the existing relations between king and people.
Of the creation of new rights there is not a word in all these documents. Consequently there
is no reference whatever to the important fundamental rights of religious liberty, of assembling,
of liberty of the press, or of free movement. And down to the present day the theory of English
law does not recognize rights of this kind, but considers these lines of individual liberty
as protected by the general principle of law, that any restraint of the person can only come
about through legal authorization.[58] According to the present English idea the rights of
liberty rest simply upon the supremacy of the law,--they are law, not personal rights.[59]
The theory, founded in Germany by Gerber, and defended by Laband and others, according to which
the rights of liberty are nothing but duties of the government, sprang up in England, without
any connection with the German teaching, from the existing conditions after the conception
of the public rights of the individual as natural rights, which was based on Locke and Blackstone,
had lost its power.

But with Locke even this conception stands in close connection with the old English ideas.
When Locke considers property--in which are included life and liberty--as an original right
of the individual existing previous to the state, and when he conceives of the state as a society
founded to protect this right, which is thus transformed from a natural to a civil right, he
by no means ascribes definite fundamental rights to the man living in the state, but rather
places such positive restrictions upon the legislative power as follow from the purposes of
the state.[60] When closely examined, however, these restrictions are nothing else than the
most important stipulations of the Bill of Rights, which was enacted the year before the Two
Treatises on Government appeared.[61]

Blackstone was the first (1765) to found his doctrine of the absolute rights of persons upon
the idea of the personal rights of the individual. Security, liberty, and property are the
absolute rights of every Englishman, which from their character are nothing else than the natural
liberty that remains to the individual after deducting the legal restraints demanded by the
common interest.[62] Laws appear likewise as protectors of these rights,--the whole constitution
of Parliament, the limitation of the royal prerogative, and along with these the protection
of the law courts, the right of petition, and the right to carry arms are treated, exactly
in the manner of the Bill of Rights, as rights of Englishmen, and indeed as subordinate rights
to assist in guarding the three principal rights.[63] But in spite of his fundamental conception
of a natural right, the individual with rights was for Blackstone not man simply, but the English
subject.[64]

The American declarations of rights, on the other hand, begin with the statement that all men
are born free and equal, and these declarations speak of rights that belong to "every individual",
"all mankind" or "every member of society". They enumerate a much larger number of rights than
the English declarations, and look upon these rights as innate and inalienable. Whence comes
this conception in American law?

It is not from the English law. There is then nothing else from which to derive it than the
conceptions of natural rights of that time. But there have been theories of natural rights
ever since the time of the Greeks, and they never led to the formulation of fundamental rights.
The theory of natural rights for a long time had no hesitation in setting forth the contradiction
between natural law and positive law without demanding the realization of the former through
the latter. A passage from Ulpian is drawn upon in the Digests, which declares all men to be
equal according to the law of nature, but slavery to be an institution of the civil law.[65]
The Romans, however, in spite of all mitigation of slave laws, never thought of such a thing
as the abolition of slavery. The natural freedom of man was set forth by many writers during
the eighteenth century as compatible with lawful servitude. Even Locke, for whom liberty forms
the very essence of man, in his constitution for North Carolina sanctioned slavery and servitude.

Literature alone never produces anything, unless it finds in the historical and social conditions
ground ready for its working. When one shows the literary origin of an idea, one has by no
means therewith discovered the record of its practical significance. The history of political
science to-day is entirely too much a history of the literature and too little a history of
the institutions themselves. The number of new political ideas is very small; the most, at
least in embryo, were known to the ancient theories of the state. But the institutions are
found in constant change and must be seized in their own peculiar historical forms.

FOOTNOTES:

[Footnote 46: It harks back finally to the old definition of Florentinus L. 4 D. 1, 5: "Libertas
est naturalis facultas eius, quod cuique facere libet, nisi si quid vi aut jure prohibetur."]

[Footnote 47: Arch. parl. VIII, p. 222.]

[Footnote 48: Ibid., pp. 438 and 453.]

[Footnote 49: Bancroft, VII, p. 243.]

[Footnote 50: Cf. Blackstone, Commentaries on the Laws of England, I, 1, p. 127. (Edited by
Kerr, London, 1887, I, p. 115.)]

[Footnote 51: Upon this point, cf. Cooley, Constitutional Limitations, 6th edition, Boston,
1890, Chap. VII. Even if the stipulation contained in the bills of rights that one can be deprived
of his property only "by the law of the land" should not be embodied in the constitution by
a state, a law transgressing it would be void by virtue of the fundamental limitations upon
the competence of the legislatures. Gardiner, The Constitutional Documents of the Puritan Revolution,
1889, pp. 1, 2.]

[Footnote 57: "And whereas the laws of England are the birthright of the people thereof." Act
of Settlement IV, Stubbs, Select Charters, 7th ed., 1890, p. 531. Birthright = right by birth,
the rights, privileges or possessions to which one is entitled by birth; inheritance, patrimony
(specifically used of the special rights of the first-born). Murray, A New English Dictionary
on Historical Principles, s. h. v.]

[Footnote 58: Cf. the instructive work of Dicey, Introduction to the Study of the Law of the
Constitution, 3d ed., 1889, pp. 171 et seq.]

[Footnote 59: "Sie sind objectives, nicht subjectives Recht." Dicey, pp. 184 et seq., 193 et
seq., 223 et seq., etc. Dicey treats the whole doctrine of the rights of liberty in the section
"The Rule of Law." Individual liberty according to him is in England simply the correlative
of only permitting the restriction of the individual through laws.]

[Footnote 60: This is treated in the chapter "Of the Extent of the Legislative Power," On Civil
Government, XI.]

[Footnote 61: Cf. Loc. cit., p. 125 (113).]

[Footnote 63: Loc. cit., pp. 141 et seq.

The democratic idea, upon which the constitution of the Reformed Church is based, was carried
to its logical conclusion in England toward the end of the sixteenth century, and first of
all by Robert Browne and his followers. They declared the Church, which was identical with
the parish, to be a community of believers who had placed themselves under obedience to Christ
by a compact with God, and they steadfastly recognized as authoritative only the will of the
community at the time being, that is, the will of the majority.[66] Persecuted in England Brownism
transformed itself on Dutch soil, especially through the agency of John Robinson, into Congregationalism,
in which the earliest form of the Independent movement made its appearance. The principles
of Congregationalism are first complete separation of Church and State and then the autonomy
of each separate parish,--as a petition addressed to James I. in 1616 expresses it: the right
is exercised "of spiritual administration and government in itself and over itself by the common
and free consent of the people, independently and immediately under Christ."[67]

This sovereign individualism in the religious sphere led to practical consequences of extraordinary
importance. From its principles there finally resulted the demand for, and the recognition
of, full and unrestricted liberty of conscience, and then the asserting of this liberty to
be a right not granted by any earthly power and therefore by no earthly power to be restrained.

But the Independent movement could not confine itself to ecclesiastical matters, it was forced
by logical necessity to carry its fundamental doctrines into the political sphere. As the Church,
so it considered the state and every political association as the result of a compact between
its original sovereign members.[68] This compact was made indeed in pursuance of divine commandment,
but it remained always the ultimate legal basis of the community. It was concluded by virtue
of the individual's original right and had not only to insure security and advance the general
welfare, but above all to recognize and protect the innate and inalienable rights of conscience.
And it is the entire people that specifically man for man concluded this compact, for by it
alone could every one be bound to respect the self-created authority and the self-created law.

The first indications of these religious-political ideas can be traced far back, for they were
not created by the Reformation. But the practice which developed on the basis of these ideas
was something unique. For the first time in history social compacts, by which states are founded,
were not merely demanded, they were actually concluded. What had until then slumbered in the
dust-covered manuscripts of the scholar became a powerful, life-determining movement. The men
of that time believed that the state rested upon a contract, and they put their belief into
practice. More recent theory of public law with only an imperfect knowledge of these events
frequently employed them as examples of the possibility of founding a state by contract, without
suspecting that these contracts were only the realization of an abstract theory.

On October 28, 1647, there was laid before the assembled Council of Cromwell's army a draft,
worked out by the Levellers, of a new constitution for England,[69] which later, greatly enlarged
and modified,[70] was delivered to Parliament with the request that it be laid before the entire
English people for signature.[71] In this remarkable document the power of Parliament was set
forth as limited in a manner similar to that later adopted by the Americans, and particulars
were enumerated which in future should not lie within the legislative power of the people's
representatives. The first thing named was matters of religion, which were to be committed
exclusively to the command of conscience.[72] They were reckoned among the inherent rights,
the "native rights", which the people were firmly resolved to maintain with their utmost strength
against all attacks.[73]

Here for the first and last time in England was an inherent right of religious liberty asserted
in a proposed law. This right is recognized to-day in England in legal practice, but not in
any expressly formulated principle.[74]

The religious conditions in England's North American colonies developed differently.

The compact is celebrated which the persecuted and exiled Pilgrim Fathers concluded on board
the Mayflower, November 11, 1620, before the founding of New Plymouth. They thereupon mutually
promised one another to unite themselves into a civil body politic, and, for the maintenance
of good order and accomplishment of their proposed object, to make laws, to appoint officers,
and to subject themselves to these.[75]

Therewith began the series of "Plantation Covenants" which the English settlers, according
to their ecclesiastical and political ideas, believed it necessary to make on founding a new
colony. Here they are only to be considered in their connection with religious liberty.

In 1629 Salem, the second colony in Massachusetts, was founded by Puritans. Unmindful of the
persecutions they themselves had suffered in their native land, they turned impatiently against
such as did not agree with them in their religious ideas. Roger Williams, a young Independent,
landed in Massachusetts in 1631 and was at once chosen by the community in Salem to be its
minister. But he preached complete separation of Church and State, and demanded absolute religious
liberty, not only for all Christians but also for Jews, Turks, and heathen. They should have
in the state equal civil and political rights with believers. A man's conscience belongs exclusively
to him, and not to the state.[76] Exiled and in danger, Williams forsook Salem and with a faithful
few founded, 1636, the city of Providence in the country of the Narragansett Indians, where
all who were persecuted on account of their religion should find a refuge. In the original
compact the seceders promised obedience to laws determined by a majority of themselves, but
"only in civil things"--religion was to be in no way a subject of legislation.[77] Here for
the first time was recognized the most unrestricted liberty of religious conviction, and that
by a man who was himself glowing with religious feeling.

Nineteen settlers from Providence in 1638 founded Aquedneck, the second colony in the present
state of Rhode Island, after having concluded a most remarkable compact: "We whose names are
underwritten do here solemnly, in the presence of Jehovah, incorporate ourselves into a Bodie
Politik, and as he shall help, will submit our persons, lives and estates unto our Lord Jesus
Christ, the King of Kings and Lord of Lords, and to all those perfect and absolute laws of
his given us in his holy word of truth, to be guided and judged hereby.--Exod. xxiv, 3, 4;
2 Chron. xi, 3; 2 Kings xi, 17."[78]

But such as did not go so far as Roger Williams in the recognition of liberty of conscience
were yet dominated by the idea of the necessity of a social compact in founding a new colony.
In the Fundamental Orders of Connecticut, a colony founded by Puritans who also had emigrated
from Massachusetts, the settlers in 1638 declared that they united themselves in a body politic
in pursuance of the word of God in order to guard the liberty of the Gospel and the church
discipline to which they were accustomed, and in order also in civil affairs to be ruled according
to the laws.[79] In the opposition in which they stood to the religious conditions in England,
the Puritans, although themselves little inclined to toleration, proceeded invariably upon
the idea that their state had first of all to realize religious liberty, which was for them
the free exercise of their own religious convictions.

The idea that state and government rested upon a compact--so significant for the development
of the American conceptions of individual liberty--was strengthened by the force of historical
circumstances. A handful of men went forth to found new communities. They began their work
of civilization scattered over wide stretches in the loneliness of the primeval forest.[80]
And so they believed that it was possible to live outside of the state, in a condition of nature,
and that when they stepped out of that condition of nature they did it of their own free will
and were not constrained by any earthly power. With their small numbers, representation was
at first unnecessary, and the decisions were reached in the town meetings of all belonging
to the community,--the form of a direct democracy grew naturally out of the given conditions
and strengthened the conviction, which does not correspond to the old English conception, that
the sovereignty of the people is the basis of legislation and of government. To a generation
that could point to such beginnings for their state, the political ideas which later animated
the men of 1776 seemed to bear their surety in themselves: they were "self-evident", as it
reads in the Declaration of Independence.

The inherent fundamental right of religious liberty, for which Roger Williams had striven so
earnestly, found also in the seventeenth century its official recognition in law, first in
the laws of 1647 of Rhode Island, and then in the charter which Charles II. granted the colony
of Rhode Island and Providence Plantations in 1663.[81] It was therein ordered in fulfilment
of the colonists' request, in a manner ever memorable, that in future in the said colony no
person should be molested, punished or called in question for any differences of opinion in
matters of religion; but that all persons at all times should have full liberty of conscience,
so long as they behaved themselves peaceably and did not misuse this liberty in licentiousness
or profaneness, nor to the injury or disturbance of others.[82] Thus a colony was granted that
which in the mother-country at the time was contested to the utmost. Similar principles are
found for the first time in Europe in the Practice of Frederick the Great in Prussia. But the
principles of religious liberty were recognized to a greater or less extent in other colonies
also. Catholic Maryland in 1649 granted freedom in the exercise of religion to every one who
acknowledged Jesus Christ.[83] Also that remarkable constitution which Locke prepared for North
Carolina and that went into force there in 1669, and which agrees so little with the tenets
of his Two Treatises on Government, is based upon the principle not, it is true, of full equality
of rights, but of toleration of Dissenters, and also of Jews and heathen.[84] It was permitted
every seven persons of any religion to form a church or communion of faith.[85] No compulsion
in matters of religion was exercised, except that every inhabitant when seventeen years of
age had to declare to which communion he belonged and to be registered in some church, otherwise
he stood outside of the protection of the law.[86] All violence toward any religious assembly
was strictly prohibited.[87] It was not the principle of political liberty that lay on Locke's
heart, but the opening of a way to full religious liberty. In spite of the fact that in his
treatise On Civil Government there is not a word upon the right of conscience, which he had
so energetically defended in his celebrated Letters on Toleration, the constitution of North
Carolina shows that in his practical plans it held the first place. And so with Locke also
liberty of conscience was brought forward as the first and most sacred right, overshadowing
all others. This philosopher, who held freedom to be man's inalienable gift from nature, established
servitude and slavery under the government he organized without hesitation, but religious toleration
he carried through with great energy in this new feudal state.

Of the other colonies New Jersey had proclaimed extensive toleration in 1664, and New York
in 1665.[88] In the latter, which had already declared under Dutch rule in favor of liberal
principles in religious matters, it was ordered in 1683 that no one who believed on Jesus Christ
should on any pretext whatever be molested because of difference of opinion. In the same year
William Penn conferred a constitution with democratic basis upon the colony granted to him
by the Crown and which he had named after his father Pennsylvania, in which it was declared
that no one who believed on God should in any way be forced to take part in any religious worship
or be otherwise molested,[89] and in the constitution, which Penn later (1701) established
and which remained in force until 1776, he emphasized above all that even when a people were
endowed with the greatest civil liberties they could not be truly happy, unless liberty of
conscience were recognized,[90] and at the close he solemnly promised for himself and his heirs
that the recognition of this liberty, which he had declared, should remain forever inviolable
and that the wording of the article should not be changed in any particular.[91] The constitutional
principle was thus given at once the force of a lex in perpetuum valitura.

In 1692 Massachusetts received a charter from William III. in which, following the example
of the Toleration Act of 1689, full liberty was granted to all Christians except Catholics;[92]
and Georgia was given a similar law in 1732 by George II.[93]

Thus the principles of religious liberty to a greater or less extent acquired constitutional
recognition in America. In the closest connection with the great religious political movement
out of which the American democracy was born, there arose the conviction that there exists
a right not conferred upon the citizen but inherent in man, that acts of conscience and expressions
of religious conviction stand inviolable over against the state as the exercise of a higher
right. This right so long suppressed is no "inheritance", is nothing handed down from their
fathers, as the rights and liberties of Magna Charta and of the other English enactments,--not
the State but the Gospel proclaimed it.

What in Europe at that time and even much later had received official expression only in scanty
rudiments,[94] and aside from that was only asserted in the literature of the great intellectual
movement which began in the seventeenth century and reached its height in the clearing-up epoch
of the century following, was in Rhode Island and other colonies a recognized principle of
the state by the middle of the seventeenth century. The right of the liberty of conscience
was proclaimed, and with it came the conception of a universal right of man. In 1776 this right
was designated by all the bills of rights, mostly in emphatic form and with precedence over
all others, as a natural and inherent right.[95]

The character of this right is emphasized by the bill of rights of New Hampshire, which declares
that among the natural rights some are inalienable because no one can offer an equivalent for
them. Such are the rights of conscience.[96]

The idea of legally establishing inalienable, inherent and sacred rights of the individual
is not of political but religious origin. What has been held to be a work of the Revolution
was in reality a fruit of the Reformation and its struggles. Its first apostle was not Lafayette
but Roger Williams, who, driven by powerful and deep religious enthusiasm, went into the wilderness
in order to found a government of religious liberty, and his name is uttered by Americans even
to-day with the deepest respect.

FOOTNOTES:

[Footnote 66: Weingarten, Die Revolutionskirchen Englands, p. 21.]

[Footnote 67: Ibid., p. 25.]

[Footnote 68: The connection of the Puritan-Independent doctrine of the state-compact with
the Puritan idea of church covenants is brought out by Borgeaud, p. 9. Weingarten (p. 288)
remarks forcibly of the Independents, "The right of every separate religious community freely
and alone to decide and conduct their affairs was the foundation of the doctrine of the sovereignty
of the people, which they introduced into the political consciousness of the modern world."]

[Footnote 69: First reproduced in Gardiner, History of the Great Civil War, III, London, 1891,
pp. 607-609.]

[Footnote 70: The final text in Gardiner, Constitutional Documents of the Puritan Revolution,
Oxford, 1889, pp. 270-282.]

[Footnote 71: Gardiner, History, III, p. 568.]

[Footnote 72: "That matters of religion and the ways of God's worship are not at all entrusted
by us to any human power." Gardiner, History, p. 608.]

[Footnote 73: Cf. the text in Gardiner, History, p. 609.]

[Footnote 74: Cf. Dicey, loc. cit., pp. 229, 230, where several laws are mentioned restricting
the liberty of expressing religious opinion which are, however, obsolete, though they have
never been formally repealed.]

[Footnote 75: The complete text in Poore, I, p. 931. That it was far from the intentions of
the settlers to found an independent state is evident from the entire document, in which they
characterize themselves as "subjects of our dread Sovereign Lord King James".]

[Footnote 76: On Williams, cf. Weingarten, pp. 36 et seq., and 293, Bancroft, I, pp. 276 et
seq., Masson, The Life of John Milton, II, pp. 560 et seq. The advance of the Independent movement
to unconditional freedom of faith is thoroughly discussed by Weingarten, pp. 110 et seq.]

[Footnote 77: Samuel Greene Arnold, History of the State of Rhode Island, I, New York, 1859,
p. 103.]

[Footnote 78: Arnold, p. 124.]

[Footnote 79: Fundamental Orders of Connecticut, Poore, I, p. 249.]

[Footnote 80: The entire number of immigrants in New England amounted in 1640 to 22,000 at
the highest. Of these New Plymouth had 3000, Connecticut less than 2000 souls. Masson, loc.
cit., pp. 548-550.]

[Footnote 81: The wide separation of the colonies from the mother-country did not make this
liberty appear dangerous though it was in such contradiction to the conditions in England.
Charles II. sought further, in his aversion to the Puritans, to favor as much as possible the
colonies that had separated from Massachusetts.]

[Footnote 82: "Our royall will and pleasure is, that noe person within the sayd colonye, at
any tyme hereafter, shall bee any wise molested, punished, disquieted, or called in question,
for any differences in opinione in matters of religion, and doe not actually disturb the civill
peace of our sayd colony; but that all and everye person and persons may, from tyme to tyme,
and at all tymes hereafter, freelye and fullye have and enjoye his and their owne judgments
and consciences, in matters of religious concernments, throughout the tract of lande hereafter
mentioned; they behaving themselves peaceablie and quietlie, and not useing this libertie to
lycentiousnesse and profanenesse, nor to the civill injurye or outward disturbeance of others;
any lawe, statute or clause, therein contayned, or to bee contayned, usage or custome of this
realme, to the contrary hereof, in any wise, notwithstanding." Poore, II, pp. 1596, 1597.]

[Footnote 83: Bancroft, I, p. 193, E. Lloyd Harris, Church and Slate in the Maryland Colony.
Inaugural-Dissertation. Heidelberg, 1894, p. 26 et seq.]

[Footnote 84: Carolina had already had religious toleration in the Charter of 1665. Poore,
II, p. 1397. Locke himself wished to grant full religious liberty. Cf. Laboulaye, I, p. 397.]

[Footnote 85: Art. 97. Poore, II, pp. 1406, 1407.]

[Footnote 86: Art. 101. Ibid.]

[Footnote 87: Arts. 102, 106. Ibid.]

[Footnote 88: C. Ellis Stevens, Sources of the Constitution of the United States, New York,
1894, P. 217.]

[Footnote 89: Laws agreed upon in England, Art. XXXV. Poore, II, p. 1526.]

[Footnote 90: Charter of Privileges for Pennsylvania, Art. I. Poore, II, p. 1537. For holding
office the confession of belief in Jesus Christ as the Saviour of the world was necessary,
but no special creed.]

[Footnote 91: Art. VIII, section 3.]

[Footnote 92: Poore, I, p. 950. On this point cf. Lauer, Church and State in New England in
Johns Hopkins University Studies, 10th Series, II-III, Baltimore, 1892, pp. 35 et seq.]

[Footnote 93: Poore, I, p. 375.]

[Footnote 94: In England the Toleration Act, I. Will. and Mary, c. 18, first granted toleration
to Dissenters. This was again restricted under Anne and restored under George I. Since George
II. they have been admitted to all offices. As is well known, however, the restrictions upon
the Catholics and Jews have been done away with only in our century. In Germany after the scanty
concessions of the Peace of Osnabrück, a state of affairs similar to that earlier in America
was first created by the Toleration Patent of Joseph II. of 1781, the Edict of Frederick William
II. of July 9, 1788, that which codified the principles of Frederick the Great, and above all
by the Prussian Allgemeines Landrecht (Teil II, Titel 11, §§ 1 et seq.).]

[Footnote 95: To be sure the carrying out of this right, in the direction of full political
equality to the members of all confessions, differed in the different states. New York was
the first state after Rhode Island that brought about the separation of church and state. Virginia
followed next in 1785. For some time after in many states Protestant or at least Christian
belief was necessary to obtain office. And even to-day some states require belief in God, in
immortality, and in a future state of rewards and punishments. Massachusetts declared in her
bill of rights not only the right but the duty of worship, and as late as 1799 punished neglect
of church attendance. In the course of the nineteenth century these and other restrictions
have fallen away except for a very small part. For the Union the exercise of political rights
is made entirely independent of religious belief by Art. VI of the Constitution, and also by
the famous First Amendment the establishment of any religion or prohibiting the free exercise
thereof is forbidden. On the present condition in the separate states, cf. the thorough discussion
by Cooley, Chap. XIII, pp. 541-586; further Rüttiman, Kirche und Staat in Nordamerika (1871).]

[Footnote 96: "Among the natural rights, some are in their very nature unalienable, because
no equivalent can be given or received for them. Of this kind are the RIGHTS OF CONSCIENCE."
Art. IV.

The seventeenth century was a time of religious struggles. In the following century political
and economic interests pressed into the foreground of historical movement. The democratic institutions
of the colonies were repeatedly in opposition to those of the mother-country, and the ties
that bound them to her lost more and more of their significance. The great antagonism of their
economic interests began to make itself widely felt. The economic prosperity of the colonies
demanded the least possible restriction upon free movement. Finally they felt that they were
ruled not by their old home but by a foreign country.

Then the old Puritan and Independent conceptions became effective in a new direction. The theory
of the social compact which played so important a rôle in the founding of the colonies, and
had helped to establish religious liberty, now supported in the most significant way the reconstruction
of existing institutions. Not that it changed these institutions, it simply gave them a new basis.

The colonists had brought over the ocean with them their liberties and rights as English-born
subjects. In a series of charters from the English kings it was specifically stated that the
colonists and their descendants should enjoy all the rights which belonged to Englishmen in
their native land.[97] Even before the English Bill of Rights the most of the colonies had
enacted laws in which the ancient English liberties were gathered together.[98] There occurred,
however, in the second half of the eighteenth century a great transformation in these old rights.
The inherited rights and liberties, as well as the privileges of organization, which had been
granted the colonists by the English kings or had been sanctioned by the colonial lords, do
not indeed change in word, but they become rights which spring not from man but from God and
Nature.

To these ancient rights new ones were added. With the conviction that there existed a right
of conscience independent of the State was found the starting-point for the determination of
the inalienable rights of the individual. The theory of a Law of Nature recognized generally
but one natural right of the individual--liberty or property. In the conceptions of the Americans,
however, in the eighteenth century there appears a whole series of such rights.

The teaching of Locke, the theories of Pufendorf[99] and the ideas of Montesquieu, all powerfully
influenced the political views of the Americans of that time. But the setting forth of a complete
series of universal rights of man and of citizens can in no way be explained through their
influence alone.

In 1764 there appeared in Boston the celebrated pamphlet of James Otis upon The Rights of the
British Colonies. In it was brought forward the idea that the political and civil rights of
the English colonists in no way rested upon a grant from the crown; even Magna Charta, old
as it might be, was not the beginning of all things. As the center of the whole stood the principal
occasion of strife between the colonies and the mother-country, the right of taxation. That
the levying of taxes or duties without the consent of the people or of representatives of the
colonies was not indeed contrary to the laws of the country, but contrary to the eternal laws
of liberty.[101] But these limitations were none other than those enumerated by Locke, which
"the law of God and of Nature has set for every legislative power in every state and in every
form of government".

But these propositions of Locke's are here found in a very radical transformation. They are
changing namely from law to personal right. While Locke, similar to Rousseau later, places
the individuals in subjection to the will of the majority of the community, upon which, however,
restrictions are placed by the objects of the state, now the individual establishes the conditions
under which he will enter the community, and in the state holds fast to these conditions as
rights. He has accordingly rights in the state and claims upon the state which do not spring
from the state. In opposition to England's attempt to restrict these rights, the idea formally
to declare them and to defend them grew all the stronger.

This formulation was influenced by a work that was published anonymously at Oxford in 1754,
in which for the first time "absolute rights" of the English are mentioned.[102] It originated
from no less a person than Blackstone.[103] These rights of the individual were voiced in Blackstone's
words for the first time in a Memorial to the legislature, which is given in an appendix to
Otis's pamphlet.[104] On November 20, 1772, upon the motion of Samuel Adams a plan, which he
had worked out, of a declaration of rights of the colonists as men, Christians and citizens
was adopted by all the assembled citizens of Boston. It was therein declared, with an appeal
to Locke, that men enter into the state by voluntary agreement, and they have the right beforehand
in an equitable compact to establish conditions and limitations for the state and to see to
it that these are carried out. Thereupon the colonists demanded as men the right of liberty
and of property, as Christians freedom of religion, and as citizens the rights of Magna Charta
and of the Bill of Rights of 1689.[105]

Finally, on October 14, 1774, the Congress, representing twelve colonies, assembled in Philadelphia
adopted a declaration of rights, according to which the inhabitants of the North American Colonies
have rights which belong to them by the unchangeable law of nature, by the principles of the
constitution of England and by their own constitutions.[106]

From that to the declaration of rights by Virginia is apparently only a step, and yet there
is a world-wide difference between the two documents. The declaration of Philadelphia is a
protest, that of Virginia a law. The appeal to England's law has disappeared. The state of
Virginia solemnly recognizes rights pertaining to the present and future generations as the
basis and foundation of government.[107]

In this and the following declarations of rights by the now sovereign states of North America,
by the side of the rights of liberty that had been thus far asserted,--liberty of person, of
property and of conscience,--stand new ones, corresponding to the infringements most recently
suffered at England's hands of other lines of individual liberty: the right of assembly, the
freedom of the press and free movement. But these rights of liberty were not the only ones
therein asserted, there were the right of petition, the demand for the protection of law and
the forms to be observed in insuring that, a special demand for trial by an independent jury,
and in the same way with regard to other acts of the state; and the foundations of the citizen's
political rights were also declared. They thus contained according to the intentions of their
authors the distinctive features of the entire public right of the individual. Besides these
were included the principle of the division of powers, of rotation of office, of accountability
of office-holders, of forbidding hereditary titles, and there were further contained certain
limitations on the legislature and executive, such as forbidding the keeping of a standing
army or creating an established church,--all of which do not engender personal rights of the
individual at all, or do so only indirectly. The whole is based upon the principle of the sovereignty
of the people, and culminates in the conception of the entire constitution being an agreement
of all concerned. In this particular one sees clearly the old Puritan-Independent idea of the
covenant in its lasting influence, of which new power was to be significantly displayed later.
When to-day in the separate states of the Union changes in the constitution are enacted either
by the people themselves, or through a constitutional convention, there still lives in this
democratic institution the same idea that once animated the settlers of Connecticut and Rhode
Island.

Everywhere the bill of rights forms the first part of the constitution, following which as
second part comes the plan or frame of government. The right of the creator of the state, the
originally free and unrestricted individual, was first established, and then the right of that
which the individuals created, namely, the community.

In spite of the general accord of these fundamental principles, when it came to carrying them
out in practical legislation great differences arose in the various states, and though these
differences were afterward greatly lessened they have not entirely disappeared even to-day.
Thus, as mentioned above, religious liberty, in spite of its universal recognition in the constitutions,
was not everywhere nor at once carried out in all of its consequences. In spite of the assertion
that all men are by nature free and equal the abolition of slavery was not then accomplished.
In the slave states in place of "man" stood "freeman".

The rights thus formally declared belonged originally to all the "inhabitants", in the slave
states to all the "whites". It was only later that the qualification of citizenship of the
United States was required in most of the states for the exercise of political rights.

We have thus seen by what a remarkable course of development there arose out of the English
law, old and new, that was practised in the colonies, the conception of a sphere of rights
of the individual, which was independent of the state, and by the latter was simply to be recognized.
In reality, however, the declarations of rights did nothing else than express the existing
condition of rights in definite universal formulas.

That which the Americans already enjoyed they wished to proclaim as a perpetual possession
for themselves and for every free people. In contrast to them the French wished to give that
which they did not yet have, namely, institutions to correspond to their universal principles.
Therein lies the most significant difference between the American and French declarations of
rights, that in the one case the institutions preceded the recognition of rights of the individual,
in the other they followed after. Therein lay also the fatal mistake of the German National
Assembly at Frankfort which wished to determine first the rights of the individual and then
establish the state. The German state was not yet founded, but it was already settled what
this state not yet existing dare not do and what it had to concede. The Americans could calmly
precede their plan of government with a bill of rights, because that government and the controlling
laws had already long existed.

One thing, however, has resulted from this investigation with irrefutable certainty. The principles
of 1789 are in reality the principles of 1776.

FOOTNOTES:

[Footnote 97: Kent, Commentaries on American Law, 10th ed., I, p. 611.]

[Footnote 98: Cf. Kent, I, pp. 612 et seq.; Stevens, loc. cit., pp. 208 et seq. They are universally
designated to-day in America as "bills of rights". Their example undoubtedly influenced the
declarations of 1776 and those after.]

[Footnote 99: Borgeaud, p. 27, cites a treatise by John Wyse as having had great influence
in the democratizing of ideas in Massachusetts. This man, whose name was John Wise, has done
nothing else than take Pufendorf's theories as the basis of his work, as he himself specifically
declares. Cf. J. Wise, A Vindication on the Government of New England Churches, Boston, 1772,
p. 22.]

[Footnote 100: Bancroft, IV, pp. 145, 146.]

[Footnote 101: Cf. John Adams, Works, X, Boston, 1856, p. 293.]

[Footnote 102: Analysis of the Laws of England, Chap. 4.]

[Footnote 103: It formed the basis of Blackstone's later Commentaries.]

[Footnote 104: Cf. Otis, The Rights of the British Colonies asserted and proved, 1764, reprinted
London, p. 106.]

[Footnote 105: Cf.

THE RIGHTS OF MAN AND THE TEUTONIC CONCEPTION OF RIGHT.

In conclusion there remains still one question to answer. Why is it that the doctrine of an
original right of the individual and of a state compact, arising as far back as the time of
the Sophists in the ancient world, further developed in the mediæval theory of Natural Law,
and carried on by the currents of the Reformation,--why is it that this doctrine advanced to
epoch-making importance for the first time in England and her colonies? And in general, in
a thoroughly monarchical state, all of whose institutions are inwardly bound up with royalty
and only through royalty can be fully comprehended, how could republican ideas press in and
change the structure of the state so completely?

The immediate cause thereof lies clearly before us. The antagonism between the dynasty of the
Stuarts, who came from a foreign land and relied upon their divine right, and the English national
conceptions of right, and also the religious wars with royalty in England and Scotland, seem
to have sufficiently favored the spreading of doctrines which were able to arouse an energetic
opposition. Yet similar conditions existed in many a Continental state from the end of the
sixteenth to the middle of the seventeenth century. There, too, arose a strong opposition of
the estates to royalty which was striving more and more towards absolutism, fearful religious
wars broke out and an extensive literature sought with great energy to establish rights of
the people and of the individual over against the rulers. The revolutionary ideas on the continent
led it is true in France to regicide, but there was nowhere an attempt made at a reconstruction
of the whole state system. Locke's doctrines of a Law of Nature appear to have had no influence
at all outside of England. The Continental doctrines of natural law played their important
part for the first time at the end of the eighteenth century in the great social transformation
of the French Revolution.

It was not without result that England in distinction from the Continent had withstood the
influence of the Roman Law. The English legal conceptions have by no means remained untouched
by the Roman, but they have not been nearly so deeply influenced by them as the Continental.
The public law especially developed upon an essentially Teutonic basis, and the original Teutonic
ideas of right have never been overgrown with the later Roman conceptions of the state's omnipotence.

The Teutonic state, however, in distinction from the ancient, so far as the latter is historically
known to us, rose from weak beginnings to increasing power. The competence of the Teutonic
state was in the beginning very narrow, the individual was greatly restricted by his family
and clan, but not by the state. The political life of the Middle Ages found expression rather
in associations than in a state which exhibited at first only rudimentary forms.

At the beginning of modern times the power of the state became more and more concentrated.
This could happen in England all the easier because the Norman kings had already strongly centralized
the administration. As early as the end of the sixteenth century Sir Thomas Smith could speak
of the unrestricted power of the English Parliament,[108] which Coke a little later declared
to be "absolute and transcendent".[109]

But this power was thought of by Englishmen as unlimited only in a nominal legal sense. That
the state, and therefore Parliament and the King have very real restrictions placed upon them
has been at all times in England a live conviction of the people.

Magna Charta declares that the liberties and rights conceded by it are granted "in perpetuum".[110]
In the Bill of Rights it was ordained that everything therein contained should "remain the
law of this realm forever".[111] In spite of the nominal omnipotence of the state a limit which
it shall not over-step is specifically demanded and recognized in the most important fundamental
laws.

In these nominally legal but perfectly meaningless stipulations, the old Teutonic legal conception
of the state's limited sphere of activity finds expression.

The movement of the Reformation was also based on the idea of the restriction of the state.
Here, however, there entered the conception of a second restriction which was conditioned by
the entire historical development. The mediæval state found restrictions not only in the strength
of its members, but also in the sphere of the church. The question as to how far the state's
right extended in spiritual matters could only be fully raised after the Reformation, because
through the Reformation those limits which had been fixed in the Middle Ages again became disputable.
The new defining of the religious sphere and the withdrawal of the state from that sphere were
also on the lines of necessary historical development.

So the conception of the superiority of the individual over against the state found its support
in the entire historical condition of England in the seventeenth century. The doctrines of
a natural law attached themselves to the old conceptions of right, which had never died, and
brought them out in new form.

The same is true of the theories that arose on the Continent. Since the predominance of the
historical school, one is accustomed to look upon the doctrines of a natural law as impossible
dreaming. But an important fact is thereby overlooked, that no theory, no matter how abstract
it may seem, which wins influence upon its time can do so entirely outside of the field of
historical reality.

An insight into these historical facts is of the greatest importance for a correct legal comprehension
of the relation of the state and the individual. There are here two possibilities, both of
which can be logically carried out. According to the one the entire sphere of right of the
individual is the product of state concession and permission. According to the other the state
not only engenders rights of the individual, but it also leaves the individual that measure
of liberty which it does not itself require in the interest of the whole. This liberty, however,
it does not create but only recognizes.

The first conception is based upon the idea of the state's omnipotence as it was most sharply
defined in the absolutist doctrines of the sixteenth and seventeenth centuries. Its extreme
consequence has been drawn by the poet in his question of law:

   "Jahrelang schon bedien' ich mich meiner Nase zum Riechen;
   Hab' ich denn wirklich an sie auch ein erweisliches Recht?"[112]

The second theory on the other hand is that of the Teutonic conception of right corresponding
to the historical facts of the gradual development of the state's power. If natural right is
identical with non-historical right, then the first doctrine is for the modern state that of
natural right, the second that of historical right. However much the boundaries of that recognized
liberty have changed in the course of time, the consciousness that such boundaries existed
was never extinguished in the Teutonic peoples even at the time of the absolute state.[113]

This liberty accordingly was not created but recognized, and recognized in the self-limitation
of the state and in thus defining the intervening spaces which must necessarily remain between
those rules with which the state surrounds the individual. What thus remains is not so much
a right as it is a condition. The great error in the theory of a natural right lay in conceiving
of the actual condition of liberty as a right and ascribing to this right a higher power which
creates and restricts the state.[114]

At first glance the question does not seem to be of great practical significance, whether an
act of the individual is one directly permitted by the state or one only indirectly recognized.
But it is not the task of the science of law merely to train the judge and the administrative
officer and teach them to decide difficult cases. To recognize the true boundaries between
the individual and the community is the highest problem that thoughtful consideration of human
society has to solve.

FOOTNOTES:

[Footnote 108: "The most high and absolute power of the realm of England consisteth in the
Parliament ... all that ever the people of Rome might do, either in centuriatis comitiis or
tributis, the same may be done by the Parliament of England, which representeth and hath the
power of the whole realm, both the head and the body." The Commonwealth of England, 1589, Book
II, reprinted in Prothero, Select Statutes and Documents of Elizabeth and James I., Oxford,
1894, p. 178.]

[Footnote 109: 4 Inst. p. 36.]

[Footnote 110: Art. 63. Stubbs, p. 306.]

[Footnote 111: Art. 11. Stubbs, p. 527.]

[Footnote 112:

   For years I have used my nose to smell with,
   Have I then really a provable right to it?]

[Footnote 113: The idea of all individual rights of liberty being the product of state concession
has been recently advocated by Tezner, Grünhuts Zeitschrift für Privat-und öffentliches Recht,
XXI, pp. 136 et seq., who seeks to banish the opposing conception to the realm of natural right.
The decision of such important questions can only be accomplished by careful historical analysis,
which will show different results for different epochs,--that, for example, the legal nature
of liberty is entirely different in the ancient state and in the modern. Legal dialectics can
easily deduce the given condition with equally logical acuteness from principles directly opposed
to one another. The true principle is taught not by jurisprudence but by history.]

[Footnote 114: Cf. more explicitly on this, Jellinek, loc. cit., pp. 43, 89 et seq.]

SECOND IMPRESSION.

FORD'S THE FEDERALIST.

Edited by PAUL LEICESTER FORD, editor of the writings of Jefferson; Bibliography of the Constitution
of the United States, 1787-1788; Pamphlets on the Constitution of the United States. lxxvii
+ 793 pp. Large 12mo. $1.75, net.

The present edition is the first in which any attempt has been made to illustrate, in footnotes,
not merely the obscure passages in the text, but also the subsequent experience of the United
States and other countries where they relate to the views expressed by the authors. The most
authentic text has been used; the antiquated and often absurd punctuation--largely due to incompetent
early printers--has been rationalized; and an introduction, abundant cross-references, and
a full index materially increase the value of this edition for both students and lawyers. Matter
of obsolete or minor interest has been put in distinctive type. An appendix of 149 pages contains
The Constitution with all the amendments, and the references to U.S. Reports, besides other
documents important to constitutional development.

Roger Foster, author of Commentaries on the Constitution: "The best edition of The Federalist
that has been published."

Right Hon. James Bryce: "Far the best [edition] I have seen, and the most likely to be useful
to students of political science."

New York Tribune: "Mr. Ford's editing is nothing less than perfect.... Printed handsomely and
published in a convenient size, this is an invaluable edition, calculated to be of service
not only to the politician and lawyer, but to every thoughtful citizen."

Review of Reviews: "Mr. Ford has the habit of thoroughness in a very remarkable degree; ...
not only great ability, but rare opportunities and invaluable experience.... A soundly edited
text; ... an introductory essay which really puts the touch of finality upon questions that
have been in dispute for nearly a century.... For the purposes of critical study and precise
reference Mr. Ford's edition, it seems to us, most of necessity exclude all others. Quite apart
from the extremely valuable editorial work included in the introductory part of the volume,
Mr. Ford's index (The Federalist has never before been indexed) would entitle him to a vote
of thanks by Congress."

Prof. Edward G. Bourne, of Yale: "The most useful edition for the working student."

The Dial: "Mr. Paul Leicester Ford has many titles to the gratitude of students interested
in American history, and none more clear than that which is due him for his edition of The
Federalist.... The work is admirably done in all important respects, and should be upon the
desk of every teacher of American constitutional history."

Prof. Carl Evans Boyd of University of Chicago: "His edition leaves nothing to be desired,
and will undoubtedly become the standard."

The Outlook: "A singularly illuminative introduction; ... one of the best planned and most
valuable contributions ever made towards the clearer understanding of our history."

HENRY HOLT & CO.,

29 West 23rd Street, New York.

GORDY'S POLITICAL PARTIES IN THE UNITED STATES Vol. I, 1783-1809. 598 pp. 12 mo. $1.75, net,
special.

A work intended for the thoughtful reader without much previous knowledge of the subject. To
be completed in four volumes, the second of which is now in press.

Nation: "Four years ago we had an opportunity to pronounce a favorable judgment on it.... Now
there is much extension in addition to a thorough revision.... The opening sentences (no mean
criterion often) are of a nature to whet the appetite for what is to come."

LEE'S SOURCE BOOK OF ENGLISH HISTORY

Edited by Dr. GUY CARLTON LEE. 609 pp. 12 mo. $2.00, net.

Some 200 documents and selections from contemporaries from Herodotus to the last treaty with
the Boers. With a full Bibliography of Sources (60 pp.).

N.Y. Tribune: "The generous scope of the work would alone commend it to the student. Every
detail in the book increases his gratitude.... Mr. Lee appears to have used the best judgment,
choosing just such documents as the reader desires to get at.... Altogether, this is a most
serviceable publication. Mr. Lee's little introductory notes to his various documents are judiciously
brief, but always sufficient and interesting."

HENDERSON'S SIDE LIGHTS ON ENGLISH HISTORY

With 80 full-page illustrations. 300 pp. 8vo. $5.00, net special.

Accounts and pictures by contemporaries ingeniously arranged to give the effect of a continuous
history, and dealing with such topics as the personality of Queen Elizabeth, the execution
of Mary Stuart, characteristic traits of Cromwell, the return of Charles II., the Stuarts in
exile, Queen Anne and the Marlboroughs, etc., etc., illustrated by 80 portraits, fac-similes,
caricatures, etc., reproduced directly from the rarest original mezzotint and line engravings.

N.Y. Tribune: "It is not unlikely that he who has dipped into this book in the early afternoon
will find himself still reading when night comes.... A better book to put in the hands of the
lover of history, whether he be a beginner or an old student, we do not know."

WALKER'S DISCUSSIONS IN ECONOMICS AND STATISTICS By the late General FRANCIS A. WALKER. Edited
by Prof. DAVIS R. DEWEY.

With portrait. 454 + 480 pp. 2 vols. 8vo. $6.00, net special.

The Dial: "Clear and interesting to the general reader, as well as instructive to the careful
student."

BREAL'S SEMANTICS lxvi + 336 pp. 12mo, $2.50, net.

Studies in the Science of Significations, as distinguished from the Science of Sounds (Phonetics).
The style is pleasing, and the enjoyment of the book requires no previous philological training.

SWEET'S PRACTICAL STUDY OF LANGUAGES

By Prof. HENRY SWEET of Oxford. 12mo. $1.50, net. xii, 1900

"Clear and interesting to the general reader, as well as instructive to the careful student."--The
Dial.

With portrait. 454 + 481 pp. 2 vols. 8vo. $6.00, net.

VOL. I.   Finance and Taxation, Money and Bimetallism, Economic Theory. VOL. II.  Statistics,
National Growth, Social Economics.

The author had hoped to bring these papers together himself.

The Dial: "Professor Dewey has performed a real service to the public, as well as to the memory
of his late chief.... In the present collection the editor has not included everything General
Walker ever wrote, but has aimed, so far as possible, to avoid repetitions of thought ... there
are some discussions of the national finances in the period following the Civil War, which
have a timely as well as historical interest at the present time.... To improve the census
was General Walker's work for many years, and his experience cannot fail to be of interest
to the present generation.... Economics in the hands of this master was no dismal science,
because of his broad sympathies, his healthy conservative optimism, his belief in the efficacy
of effort; and, in a more superficial sense, because of his saving sense of humor and his happy
way of putting things, ... he was the fortunate possessor of a very pleasing literary style,
... clear and interesting to the general reader, as well as instructive to the careful student."

The Outlook: "This book makes accessible for students the miscellaneous work of one of America's
greatest political economists.... Dr. Dewey has performed his critical work with the reverence
of a disciple, and reprinted in full all the more important contributions."

Political Science Quarterly: "The collection embraces between fifty and sixty articles, all
of them characterized by the forceful reasoning and balanced judgment of the gifted author."

HENRY HOLT & CO.

29 W. 23d St., NEW YORK 378 Wabash Ave., CHICAGO

"A fitting memorial to its author."--The Dial

A NOTABLE BOOK BY THE LATE

FRANCIS A. WALKER

President of the Massachusetts Institute of Technology

DISCUSSIONS IN EDUCATION

Edited by JAMES PHINNEY MUNROE. 8vo. $3.00, net.

The author had hoped himself to collect these papers in a volume. They are grouped under Technological
Education, Manual Education, The Teaching of Arithmetic and College Problems (including College
Athletics). A Valedictory appropriately closes the book.

The Outlook: "Space fails us here to transcribe some passages we had marked as maxims for the
times. So long as the reforms and improvements in our educational methods which General Walker
advocated, not without some success, are but partially accomplished, will this volume of expert
testimony deserve to be close at hand to those with whom is the responsibility of direction."

The Dial: "A fitting memorial to its author.... The breadth of his experience, as well as the
natural range of his mind, are here reflected. The subjects dealt with are all live and practical....
He never deals with them in a narrow or so-called 'practical' way."

The Boston Transcript: "Two of his conspicuous merits characterize these papers, the peculiar
power he possessed of enlisting and retaining the attention for what are commonly supposed
to be dry and difficult subjects, and the capacity he had for controversy, sharp and incisive,
but so candid and generous that it left no festering wound."

The Review of Reviews: "A strong presentation of the scope and dignity of technological education,
and its relations to other forms of culture."

The School Review: "The scope and power of the contents make the work a permanent contribution
to the development of educational thought and principle."

EARLIER BOOKS BY GEN. FRANCIS A. WALKER

(Circular free.) Wages. 428 pp. 12mo. $2.00.--Money. 550 pp. 12mo. $2.00.--Money in its Relations
to Trade and Industry. 339 pp. 12mo. $1.25.--International Bimetallism. 297 pp. 12mo. $1.25.--Political
Economy (Advanced Course. 537 pp. 8vo. $2.00, net.--Briefer Course. 415 pp. 12mo. $1.20, net.--Elementary
Course. 323 pp. 12mo. $1.00, net.)

HENRY HOLT & CO.

29 West 23rd St., NEW YORK 378 Wabash Ave., CHICAGO

2d Impression of

THE FORTUNE OF WAR

BY MISS ELIZABETH BARROW. 12mo. $1.25.

A vivid romance, the scene of which is laid in New York City during the British Occupation
in the Revolution.

N.Y. Times Saturday Review: "The story is a good one, the historical data accurate, and the
ways and manners of the period are cleverly presented.... The love plot is absorbing, and will
be found by many readers even more fascinating than the faithful reproduction of the manners
and customs of the time.... It is quite safe to say that this book vies in excellence with
some of the historical romances which have caused more general comment. No doubt it will gradually
grow into a larger popularity".

The Outlook: "Miss Elizabeth Barrow has done her work not only well, but delightfully well."

The Independent: "A short tale, and a very good one.... A story of the Revolutionary War, romantic
to a degree and very charmingly told."

Chicago Times-Herald: "Another tale of the time of Washington, but one that is more deserving
both of popular and critical appreciation than some of the much-vaunted financial successes."

Springfield Republican: "It gives a good picture of New York City as it was in the eighteenth
century.... The story is agreeable reading."

Hartford Courant: "She has done good work in her romance; ... it is told in a very attractive
way.... The book is decidedly one that will entertain."

Christian Register: "Miss Barrow has been successful in depicting the condition of New York
City at the time the British were quartered there.... It is a bright, pleasant tale."

The Churchman: "The book furnishes an interesting side-light upon the estimation in which the
Americans were held by the upper classes of the British through the greater part of the Revolutionary
struggle."

HENRY HOLT & CO.

29 West 23d Street New York

RUSSIA

KRAUSSE'S RUSSIA IN ASIA, 1558-1899

With appendix, index, and twelve maps. 8vo. $4.00.

Boston Transcript: "The most masterly marshaling of the British arguments against Russia which
has appeared in a long time.... The man who wrote the book has had an inside view of Russian
methods, or else he is extremely clever in collecting detailed information about them. His
information is brought down to date, and his passages on the Manchurian railway agreement show
that he can see near things as vividly as far things. His review of the present state of Russia's
southern boundary in Asia is striking, and sums up a great deal of history."

THOMPSON'S RUSSIAN POLITICS

By Herbert M. Thompson. An account of the relations of Russian geography, history, and politics,
and of the bearings of the last on questions of world-wide interest. With maps. 12mo. $2.00.

Outlook: "The result of careful study, compactly, clearly, and effectively presented.... The
author's aim is to stir the friends of freedom throughout the world to a deeper interest in
the cause of Russian liberty. His work is vivified by the fact that his heart is in it."

WALLACE'S RUSSIA

By D. Mackenzie Wallace, M.A., Member of the Imperial Russian Geographical Society. Large 12mo.
$2.00.

Contents include: In the Northern Forests; Voluntary Exile; The Village Priest; A Peasant Family
of the Old Type; The Mir, or Village Community; Towns and Mercantile Classes; Lord Novgorod
the Great; The Imperial Administration; The New Local Self-Government; Proprietors of the Modern
School; The Noblesse; Social Classes; Among the Heretics; Pastoral Tribes of the Steppes; St.
Petersburg and European Influence; Church and State; The Crimean War and Its Consequences;
The Serfs; The New Law Courts; Territorial Expansion and the Eastern Question.

GAUTIER'S A WINTER IN RUSSIA

By Théophile Gautier. Translated by M.M. Ripley. 12mo. $1.75.

Contents: Berlin; Hamburg; Schleswig; Lübeck; Crossing the Baltic; St. Petersburg; Winter;
The Neva; Details of Interiors; A Ball at the Winter Palace; The Theatres; The Tchoukine Dvor;
Zichy; St. Isaac's; Moscow; The Kremlin; Troitza; Byzantine Art; Return to France.

New York Tribune: "As little like an ordinary book of travel as a slender antique vase filled
with the perfumed wine of Horatian banquets is like the fat comfortable tea-cup of a modern
breakfast-table."

HENRY HOLT & CO.

29 West 23d Street New York

This preservation photocopy was made at BookLab. Inc. in compliance with copyright law. The
paper meets the requirements of ANSI/NISO Z39.48-1992 (Permanence of Paper)

Austin 1995

