"My dear sir," replied the lord, "we are going to transfer the chapel body and bones. If we
were Yankees we should know how to do it without pulling it in pieces. As it is, we've got
to do it piecemeal. So now, Mr. Hickbody," he continued, turning round to the builder from
Salisbury, "you may go to work at once. The Marquis will be much obliged to you if you will
press it on."

"Certainly, my lord," said Mr. Hickbody, taking off his hat. "We'll put on quite a body of
men, my lord, and his lordship's commands shall be obeyed."

After which Lord St. George and Mr. Fenwick withdrew together from the chapel and walked into
the vicarage.

"If all that be absolutely necessary--" began the Vicar.

"It is, Mr. Fenwick; we've made a mistake." Lord St. George always spoke of his father as "we,"
when there came upon him the necessity of retrieving his father's errors. "And our only way
out of it is to take the bull by the horns at once and put the thing right. It will cost us
about £700, and then there is the bore of having to own ourselves to be wrong. But that is
much better than a fight."

"I should not have fought."

"You would have been driven to fight. And then there is the one absolute fact;--the chapel
ought not to be there. And now I've one other word to say. Don't you think this quarrelling
between clergyman and landlord is bad for the parish?"

"Very bad indeed, Lord St. George."

"Now I'm not going to measure out censure, or to say that we have been wrong, or that you have
been wrong."

"If you do I shall defend myself," said the Vicar.

"Exactly so. But if bygones can be bygones there need be neither offence nor defence."

"What can a clergyman think, Lord St. George, when the landlord of his parish writes letters
against him to his bishop, maligning his private character, and spreading reports for which
there is not the slightest foundation?"

"Mr. Fenwick, is that the way in which you let bygones be bygones?"

"It is very hard to say that I can forget such an injury."

"My father, at any rate, is willing to forget,--and, as he hopes, to forgive. In all disputes
each party of course thinks that he has been right. If you, for the sake of the parish, and
for the sake of Christian charity and goodwill, are ready to meet him half way, all this ill-will
may be buried in the ground."

What could the Vicar do? He felt that he was being cunningly cheated out of his grievance.
He would have had not a minute's hesitation as to forgiving the Marquis, had the Marquis owned
himself to be wrong. But he was now invited to bury the hatchet on even terms, and he knew
that the terms should not be even. And he resented all this the more in his heart because he
understood very well how clever and cunning was the son of his enemy. He did not like to be
cheated out of his forgiveness. But after all, what did it matter? Would it not be enough for
him to know, himself, that he had been right? Was it not much to feel himself free from all
pricks of conscience in the matter?

"If Lord Trowbridge is willing to let it all pass," said he, "so am I."

"I am delighted," said Lord St. George, with spirit; "I will not come in now, because I have
already overstayed my time, but I hope you may hear from my father before long in a spirit
of kindness."

CHAPTER LXXI.

THE END OF MARY LOWTHER'S STORY.

Sir Gregory Marrable's headache was not of long duration. Allusion is here made to that especial
headache under the acute effects of which he had taken so very unpromising a farewell of his
nephew and heir. It lasted, however, for two or three days, during which he had frequent consultations
with Mrs. Brownlow, and had one conversation with Edith. He was disappointed, sorry, and sore
at heart because the desire on which he had set his mind could not be fulfilled; but he was
too weak to cling either to his hope or to his anger. His own son had gone from him, and this
young man must be his heir and the owner of Dunripple. No doubt he might punish the young man
by excluding him from any share of ownership for the present; but there would be neither comfort
nor advantage in that. It is true that he might save any money that Walter would cost him,
and give it to Edith,--but such a scheme of saving for such a purpose was contrary to the old
man's nature. He wanted to have his heir near him at Dunripple. He hated the feeling of desolation
which was presented to him by the idea of Dunripple without some young male Marrable at hand
to help him. He desired, unconsciously, to fill up the void made by the death of his son with
as little trouble as might be. And therefore he consulted Mrs. Brownlow.

Mrs. Brownlow was clearly of opinion that he had better take his nephew, with the encumbrance
of Mary Lowther, and make them both welcome to the house. "We have all heard so much good of
Miss Lowther, you know," said Mrs. Brownlow, "and she is not at all the same as a stranger."

"That is true," said Sir Gregory, willing to be talked over.

"And then, you know, who can say whether Edith would ever have liked him or not. You never
can tell what way a young woman's feelings will go."

On hearing this Sir Gregory uttered some sound intended to express mildly a divergence of opinion.
He did not doubt but what Edith would have been quite willing to fall in love with Walter,
had all things been conformable to her doing so. Mrs. Brownlow did not notice this as she continued,--"At
any rate the poor girl would suffer dreadfully now if she were allowed to think that you should
be divided from your nephew by your regard for her. Indeed, she could hardly stay at Dunripple
if that were so."

Mrs. Brownlow in a mild way suggested that nothing should be said to Edith, and Sir Gregory
gave half a promise that he would be silent. But it was against his nature not to speak. When
the moment came the temptation to say something that could be easily said, and which would
produce some mild excitement, was always too strong for him. "My dear," he said, one evening,
when Edith was hovering round his chair, "you remember what I once said to you about your cousin
Walter?"

"About Captain Marrable, uncle?"

"Well,--he is just the same as a cousin;--it turns out that he is engaged to marry another
cousin,--Mary Lowther."

"She is his real cousin, Uncle Gregory."

"I never saw the young lady,--that I know of."

"Nor have I,--but I've heard so much about her! And everybody says she is nice. I hope they'll
come and live here."

"I don't know yet, my dear."

"He told me all about it when he was here."

"Told you he was going to be married?"

"No, uncle, he did not tell me that exactly;--but he said that--that--. He told me how much
he loved Mary Lowther, and a great deal about her, and I felt sure it would come so."

"Then you are aware that what I had hinted about you and Walter--"

"Don't talk about that, Uncle Gregory. I knew that it was ever so unlikely, and I didn't think
about it. You are so good to me that of course I couldn't say anything. But you may be sure
he is ever so much in love with Miss Lowther; and I do hope we shall be so fond of her!"

Sir Gregory was pacified and his headache for the time was cured. He had had his little scheme,
and it had failed. Edith was very good, and she should still be his pet and his favourite,--but
Walter Marrable should be told that he might marry and bring his bride to Dunripple, and that
if he would sell out of his regiment, the family lawyer should be instructed to make such arrangements
for him as would have been made had he actually been a son. There would be some little difficulty
about the colonel's rights; but the colonel had already seized upon so much that it could not
but be easy to deal with him. On the next morning the letter was written to Walter by Mrs.
Brownlow herself.

About a week after this Mary Lowther, who was waiting at Loring with an outward show of patience,
but with much inward anxiety for further tidings from her lover, received two letters, one
from Walter, and the other from her friend, Janet Fenwick. The reader shall see those, and
the replies which Mary made to them, and then our whole story will have been told as far as
the loves, and hopes, and cares, and troubles of Mary Lowther are concerned.

   Bullhampton, 1st September.

   DEAREST MARY,

   I write a line just because I said I would. Frank went
   up to London last week and was away one Sunday. He found
   his poor friend in town and was with him for two or three
   days. He has made up his mind to let the Privets, and go
   abroad, and nothing that Frank could say would move him.
   I do not know whether it may not be for the best. We shall
   lose such a neighbour as we never shall have again. He
   was the same as a brother to both of us; and I can only
   say, that loving him like a brother, I endeavoured to
   do the best for him that I could. This I do know;--that
   nothing on earth shall ever tempt me to set my hand at
   match-making again. But it was alluring,--the idea of
   bringing my two dearest friends near me together.

   If you have anything to tell me of your happiness, I shall
   be delighted to hear it; I will not set my heart against
   this other man;--but you can hardly expect me to say that
   he will be as much to me as might have been that other.
   God bless you,

   Your most affectionate friend,

   JANET FENWICK.

   I must tell you the fate of the chapel. They are already
   pulling it down, and carting away the things to the other
   place. They are doing it so quick, that it will all be
   gone before we know where we are. I own I am glad. As
   for Frank, I really believe he'd rather let it remain.
   But this is not all. The Marquis has promised that we
   shall hear from him "in a spirit of kindness." I wonder
   what this will come to? It certainly was not a spirit of
   kindness that made him write to the bishop and call Frank
   an infidel.

And this was the other letter.

   Barracks, 1st September, 186--.

   DEAREST LOVE,

   I hope this will be one of the last letters I shall write
   from this abominable place, for I am going to sell out at
   once. It is all settled, and I'm to be a sort of deputy
   Squire at Dunripple, under my uncle. As that is to be my
   fate in life, I may as well begin it at once. But that's
   not the whole of my fate, nor the best of it. You are to
   be admitted as deputy Squiress,--or rather as Squiress
   in chief, seeing that you will be mistress of the house.
   Dearest Mary, may I hope that you won't object to the
   promotion?

   I have had a long letter from Mrs. Brownlow; and I ran
   over yesterday and saw my uncle. I was so hurried that
   I could not write from Dunripple. I would send you Mrs.
   Brownlow's letter, only perhaps it would not be quite
   fair. I dare say you will see it some day. She says ever
   so much about you, and as complimentary as possible.
   And then she declares her purpose to resign all rights,
   honours, pains, privileges, and duties of mistress
   of Dunripple into your hands as soon as you are Mrs.
   Marrable. And this she repeated yesterday with some
   stateliness, and a great deal of high-minded resignation.
   But I don't mean to laugh at her, because I know she means
   to do what is right.

   My own, own, Mary, write me a line instantly to say that
   it is right,--and to say also that you agree with me that
   as it is to be done, 'twere well it were done quickly.

   Yours always, with all my heart,

   W. M.

It was of course necessary that Mary should consult with her aunt before she answered the second
letter. Of that which she received from Mrs. Fenwick she determined to say nothing. Why should
she ever mention to her aunt again a name so painful to her as that of Mr. Gilmore? The thinking
of him could not be avoided. In this, the great struggle of her life, she had endeavoured to
do right, and yet she could not acquit herself of evil. But the pain, though it existed, might
at least be kept out of sight.

"And so you are to go and live at Dunripple at once," said Miss Marrable.

"I suppose we shall.

"Ah, well! It's all right, I'm sure. Of course there is not a word to be said against it. I
hope Sir Gregory won't die before the Colonel. That's all."

"The Colonel is his father, you know."

"I hope there may not come to be trouble about it, that's all. I shall be very lonely, but
of course I had to expect that."

"You'll come to us, Aunt Sarah? You'll be as much there as here."

"Thank you, dear. I don't quite know about that. Sir Gregory is all very well; but one does
like one's own house."

From all which Mary understood that her dear aunt still wished that she might have had her
own way in disposing of her niece's hand,--as her dear friends at Bullhampton had wished to
have theirs.

The following were the answers from Mary to the two letters given above;--

   Loring, 3rd September, 186--.

   DEAR JANET,

   I am very, very, very sorry. I do not know what more I can
   say. I meant to do well all through. When I first told Mr.
   Gilmore that it could not be as he wished it, I was right.
   When I made up my mind that it must be so at last, I was
   right also. I fear I cannot say so much of myself as to
   that middle step which I took, thinking it was best to do
   as I was bidden. I meant to be right, but of course I was
   wrong, and I am very, very sorry. Nevertheless, I am much
   obliged to you for writing to me. Of course I cannot but
   desire to know what he does. If he writes and seems to be
   happy on his travels, pray tell me.

   I have much to tell you of my own happiness,--though, in
   truth, I feel a remorse at being happy when I have caused
   so much unhappiness. Walter is to sell out and to live
   at Dunripple, and I also am to live there when we are
   married. I suppose it will not be long now. I am writing
   to him to-day, though I do not yet know what I shall say
   to him. Sir Gregory has assented, and arrangements are to
   be made, and lawyers are to be consulted, and we are to be
   what Walter calls deputy Squire and Squiress at Dunripple.
   Mrs. Brownlow and Edith Brownlow are still to live there,
   but I am to have the honour of ordering the dinner, and
   looking wise at the housekeeper. Of course I shall feel
   very strange at going into such a house. To you I may
   say how much nicer it would be to go to some place that
   Walter and I could have to ourselves,--as you did when you
   married. But I am not such a simpleton as to repine at
   that. So much has gone as I would have it that I only feel
   myself to be happier than I deserve. What I shall chiefly
   look forward to will be your first visit to Dunripple.

   Your most affectionate friend,

   MARY LOWTHER.

The other letter, as to which Mary had declared that she had not as yet made up her own mind
when she wrote to Mrs. Fenwick, was more difficult in composition.

   Loring, 2nd September, 186--.

   DEAREST WALTER,

   So it is all settled, and I am to be a deputy Squiress! I
   have no objection to urge. As long as you are the deputy
   Squire, I will be the deputy Squiress. For your sake,
   my dearest, I do most heartily rejoice that the affair
   is settled. I think you will be happier as a county
   gentleman than you would have been in the army; and as
   Dunripple must ultimately be your home,--I will say our
   home,--perhaps it is as well that you, and I also, should
   know it as soon as possible. Of course I am very nervous
   about Mrs. Brownlow and her daughter; but though nervous I
   am not fearful; and I shall prepare myself to like them.

   As to that other matter, I hardly know what answer to make
   on so very quick a questioning. It was only the other
   day that it was decided that it was to be;--and there
   ought to be breathing time before one also decides when.
   But, dear Walter, I will do nothing to interfere with
   your prospects. Let me know what you think yourself; but
   remember, in thinking, that a little interval for purposes
   of sentiment and of stitching is always desired by the
   weaker vessel on such an occasion.

   God bless you, my own one,

   Yours always and always, M. L.

   In real truth, I will do whatever you bid me.

Of course, after that, the marriage was not very long postponed. Walter Marrable allowed that
some grace should be given for sentiment, and some also for stitching, but as to neither did
he feel that any long delay was needed. A week for sentiment, and two more for the preparation
of bridal adornments, he thought would be sufficient. There was a compromise at last, as is
usual in such cases, and the marriage took place about the middle of October. No doubt, at
that time of year they went to Italy,--but of that the present narrator is not able to speak
with any certainty. This, however, is certain,--that if they did travel abroad, Mary Marrable
travelled in daily fear lest her unlucky fate should bring her face to face with Mr. Gilmore.
Wherever they went, their tour, in accordance with a contract made by the baronet, was terminated
within two months. For on Christmas Day Mrs. Walter Marrable was to take her place as mistress
of the house at the dinner table.

The reader may, perhaps, desire to know whether things were made altogether smooth with the
Colonel. On this matter Messrs. Block and Curling, the family lawyers, encountered very much
trouble indeed. The Colonel, when application was made to him, was as sweet as honey. He would
do anything for the interests of his dearest son. There did not breathe a father on earth who
cared less for himself or his own position. But still he must live. He submitted to Messrs.
Block and Curling whether it was not necessary that he should live. Messrs. Block and Curling
explained to him very clearly that his brother, the baronet, had nothing to do with his living
or dying,--and that towards his living he had already robbed his son of a large property. At
last, however, he would not make over his life interest in the property, as it would come to
him in the event of his brother dying before him, except on payment of an annuity on and from
that date of £200 a year. He began by asking £500, and was then told that the Captain would
run the chance and would sue his father for the £20,000 in the event of Sir Gregory dying before
the Colonel.

Now the narrator will bid adieu to Mary Lowther, to Loring, and to Dunripple. The conduct of
his heroine, as depicted in these pages, will, he fears, meet with the disapprobation of many
close and good judges of female character. He has endeavoured to describe a young woman, prompted
in all her doings by a conscience wide awake, guided by principle, willing, if need be, to
sacrifice herself, struggling always to keep herself from doing wrong, but yet causing infinite
grief to others, and nearly bringing herself to utter shipwreck, because, for a while, she
allowed herself to believe that it would be right for her to marry a man whom she did not love.

CHAPTER LXXII.

AT TURNOVER CASTLE.

Mrs. Fenwick had many quips and quirks with her husband as to those tidings to be made in a
pleasant spirit which were expected from Turnover Castle. From the very moment that Lord St.
George had given the order,--upon the authority chiefly of the unfortunate Mr. Bolt, who on
this occasion found it to be impossible to refuse to give an authority which a lord demanded
from him,--the demolition of the building had been commenced. Before the first Sunday came
any use of the new chapel for divine service was already impossible. On that day Mr. Puddleham
preached a stirring sermon about tabernacles in general. "It did not matter where the people
of the Lord met," he said, "so long as they did meet to worship the Lord in a proper spirit
of independent resistance to any authority that had not come to them from revelation. Any hedge-side
was a sufficient tabernacle for a devout Christian. But--," and then, without naming any name,
he described the Church of England as a Upas tree which, by its poison, destroyed those beautiful
flowers which strove to spring up amidst the rank grass beneath it and to make the air sweet
within its neighbourhood. Something he said, too, of a weak sister tottering to its base, only
to be followed in its ruin by the speedy prostration of its elder brother. All this was of
course told in detail to the Vicar; but the Vicar refused even to be interested by it. "Of
course he did," said the Vicar. "If a man is to preach, what can he preach but his own views?"

The tidings to be made in a pleasant spirit were not long waited for,--or, at any rate, the
first instalment of them. On the 2nd of September there arrived a large hamper full of partridges,
addressed to Mrs. Fenwick in the Earl's own handwriting. "The very first fruits," said the
Vicar, as he went down to inspect the plentiful provision thus made for the vicarage larder.
Well;--it was certainly better to have partridges from Turnover than accusations of immorality
and infidelity. The Vicar so declared at once, but his wife would not at first agree with him.
"I really should have such pleasure in packing them up and sending them back," said she.

"Indeed, you shall do nothing of the kind."

"The idea of a basket of birds to atone for such insults and calumny as that man has heaped
on you!"

"The birds will be only a first instalment," said the Vicar,--and then there were more quips
and quirks about that. It was presumed by Mr. Fenwick that the second instalment would be the
first pheasants shot in October. But the second instalment came before September was over in
the shape of the following note:--

   Turnover Park, 20th September, 186--.

   The Marquis of Trowbridge and the Ladies Sophie and
   Carolina Stowte request that Mr. and Mrs. Fenwick will do
   them the honour of coming to Turnover Park on Monday the
   6th October, and staying till Saturday the 11th.

"That's an instalment indeed," said Mrs. Fenwick. "And now what on earth are we to do?" The
Vicar admitted that it had become very serious. "We must either go, and endure a terrible time
of it," continued Mrs. Fenwick, "or we must show him very plainly that we will have nothing
more to do with him. I don't see why we are to be annoyed, merely because he is a Marquis."

"It won't be because he is a Marquis."

"Why then? You can't say that you love the old man, or that the Ladies Sophie and Carolina
Stowte are the women you'd have me choose for companions, or that that soapy, silky, humbugging
Lord St. George is to your taste."

"I am not sure about St. George. He can be everything to everybody, and would make an excellent
bishop."

"You know you don't like him, and you know also that you will have a very bad time of it at
Turnover."

"I could shoot pheasants all the week."

"Yes,--with a conviction at the time that the Ladies Sophie and Carolina were calling you an
infidel behind your back for doing so. As for myself I feel perfectly certain that I should
spar with them."

"It isn't because he's a Marquis," said the Vicar, carrying on his argument after a long pause.
"If I know myself, I think I may say that that has no allurement for me. And, to tell the truth,
had he been simply a Marquis, and had I been at liberty to indulge my own wishes, I would never
have allowed myself to be talked out of my righteous anger by that soft-tongued son of his.
But to us he is a man of the very greatest importance, because he owns the land on which the
people live with whom we are concerned. It is for their welfare that he and I should be on
good terms together; and therefore if you don't mind the sacrifice, I think we'll go."

"What;--for the whole week, Frank?"

The Vicar was of opinion that the week might be judiciously curtailed by two days; and, consequently,
Mrs. Fenwick presented her compliments to the Ladies Sophie and Carolina Stowte, and expressed
the great pleasure which she and Mr. Fenwick would have in going to Turnover Park on the Tuesday,
and staying till the Friday.

"So that I shall only be shooting two days," said the Vicar, "which will modify the aspect
of my infidelity considerably."

They went to Turnover Castle. The poor old Marquis had rather a bad time of it for the hour
or two previous to their arrival. It had become an acknowledged fact now in the county that
Sam Brattle had had nothing to do with the murder of Farmer Trumbull, and that his acquaintance
with the murderers had sprung from his desire to see his unfortunate sister settled in marriage
with a man whom he at the time did not know to be disreputable. There had therefore been a
reaction in favour of Sam Brattle, whom the county now began to regard as something of a hero.
The Marquis, understanding all that, had come to be aware that he had wronged the Vicar in
that matter of the murder. And then, though he had been told upon very good authority,--no
less than that of his daughters, who had been so informed by the sisters of a most exemplary
neighbouring curate,--that Mr. Fenwick was a man who believed "just next to nothing," and would
just as soon associate with a downright Pagan like old Brattle, as with any professing Christian,--still
there was the fact of the Bishop's good opinion; and, though the Marquis was a self-willed
man, to him a bishop was always a bishop. It was also clear to him that he had been misled
in those charges which he had made against the Vicar in that matter of poor Carry Brattle's
residence at Salisbury. Something of the truth of the girl's history had come to the ears of
the Marquis, and he had been made to believe that he had been wrong. Then there was the affair
of the chapel, in which, under his son's advice, he was at this moment expending £700 in rectifying
the mistake which he had made. In giving the Marquis his due we must acknowledge that he cared
but little about the money. Marquises, though they may have large properties, are not always
in possession of any number of loose hundreds which they can throw away without feeling the
loss. Nor was the Marquis of Trowbridge so circumstanced now. But that trouble did not gall
him nearly so severely as the necessity which was on him to rectify an error made by himself.
He had done a foolish thing. Under no circumstances should the chapel have been built on that
spot. He knew it now, and he knew that he must apologise. Noblesse oblige. The old lord was
very stupid, very wrong-headed, and sometimes very arrogant; but he would not do a wrong if
he knew it, and nothing on earth would make him tell a wilful lie. The epithet indeed might
have been omitted; for a lie is not a lie unless it be wilful.

Lord Trowbridge passed the hours of this Tuesday morning under the frightful sense of the necessity
for apologising;--and yet he remembered well the impudence of the man, how he had ventured
to allude to the Ladies Stowte, likening them to--to--to--! It was terrible to be thought of.
And his lordship remembered, too, how this man had written about the principal entrance to
his own mansion as though it had been no more than the entrance to any other man's house! Though
the thorns still rankled in his own flesh, he had to own that he himself had been wrong.

And he did it,--with an honesty that was beyond the reach of his much more clever son. When
the Fenwicks arrived, they were taken into the drawing-room, in which were sitting the Ladies
Sophie and Carolina with various guests already assembled at the Castle. In a minute or two
the Marquis shuffled in and shook hands with the two new comers. Then he shuffled about the
room for another minute or two, and at last got his arm through that of the Vicar, and led
him away into his own sanctum. "Mr. Fenwick," he said, "I think it best to express my regret
at once for two things that have occurred."

"It does not signify, my lord."

"But it does signify to me, and if you will listen to me for a moment I shall take your doing
so as a favour added to that which you have conferred upon me in coming here." The Vicar could
only bow and listen. "I am sorry, Mr. Fenwick, that I should have written to the bishop of
this diocese in reference to your conduct." Fenwick found it very difficult to hold his tongue
when this was said. He imagined that the Marquis was going to excuse himself about the chapel,--and
about the chapel he cared nothing at all. But as to that letter to the bishop, he did feel
that the less said about it the better. He restrained himself, however, and the Marquis went
on. "Things had been told me, Mr. Fenwick;--and I thought that I was doing my duty."

"It did me no harm, my lord."

"I believe not. I had been misinformed,--and I apologise." The Marquis paused, and the Vicar
bowed. It is probable that the Vicar did not at all know how deep at that moment were the sufferings
of the Marquis. "And now as to the chapel," continued the Marquis.

"My lord, that is such a trifle that you must let me say that it is not and has not been of
the slightest consequence."

"I was misled as to that bit of ground."

"I only wish, my lord, that the chapel could stand there."

"That is impossible. The land has been appropriated to other purposes, and though we have all
been a little in the dark about our own rights, right must be done. I will only add that I
have the greatest satisfaction in seeing you and Mrs. Fenwick at Turnover, and that I hope
the satisfaction may often be repeated." Then he led the way back into the drawing-room, and
the evil hour had passed over his head.

Upon the whole, things went very well with both the Vicar and his wife during their visit.
He did go out shooting one day, and was treated very civilly by the Turnover gamekeeper, though
he was prepared with no five-pound note at the end of his day's amusement. When he returned
to the house, his host congratulated him on his performance just as cordially as though he
had been one of the laity. On the next day he rode over with Lord St. George to see the County
Hunt kennels, which were then at Charleycoats, and nobody seemed to think him very wicked because
he ventured to have an opinion about hounds. Mrs. Fenwick's amusements were, perhaps, less
exciting, but she went through them with equanimity. She was taken to see the parish schools,
and was walked into the parish church,--in which the Stowte family were possessed of an enormous
recess called a pew, but which was in truth a room, with a fireplace in it. Mrs. Fenwick thought
it did not look very much like a church; but as the Ladies Stowte were clearly very proud of
it she held her peace as to that idea. And so the visit to Turnover Park was made, and the
Fenwicks were driven home.

"After all, there's nothing like burying the hatchet," said he.

"But who sharpened the hatchet?" asked Mrs. Fenwick.

"Never mind who sharpened it. We've buried it."

CHAPTER LXXIII.

CONCLUSION.

There is nothing further left to be told of this story of the village of Bullhampton and its
Vicar beyond what may be necessary to satisfy the reader as to the condition and future prospects
of the Brattle family. The writer of these pages ventures to hope that whatever may have been
the fate in the readers' mind of that couple which are about to settle themselves peaceably
at Dunripple, and to wait there in comfort till their own time for reigning shall have come,
some sympathy may have been felt with those humbler personages who have lived with orderly
industry at the mill,--as, also, with those who, led away by disorderly passions, have strayed
away from it, and have come back again to the old home.

For a couple of days after the return of the miller with his daughter and son, very little
was said about the past;--very little, at least, in which either the father or Sam took any
part. Between the two sisters there were no doubt questions and answers by the hour together
as to every smallest detail of the occurrences at Salisbury. And the mother almost sang hymns
of joy over her child, in that the hour which she had so much dreaded had passed by. But the
miller said not a word;--and Sam was almost equally silent. "But it be all over, Sam?" asked
his mother, anxiously one day. "For certain sure it be all over now?"

"There's one, mother, for whom it ain't all over yet;--poor devil."

"But he was the--murderer, Sam."

"So was t'other fellow. There weren't no difference. If one was more spry to kill t'old chap
than t'other, Acorn was the spryest. That's what I think. But it's done now, and there ain't
been much justice in it. As far as I sees, there never ain't much justice. They was nigh a-hanging
o' me; and if those chaps had thought o' bringing t'old man's box nigh the mill, instead of
over by t'old woman's cottage, they would a hung me;--outright. And then they was twelve months
about it! I don't think much on 'em." When his mother tried to continue the conversation,--which
she would have loved to do with that morbid interest which we always take in a matter which
has been nearly fatal to us, but from which we have escaped,--Sam turned into the mill, saying
that he had had enough of it, and wouldn't have any more.

Then, on the third day, a report of the trial in a county newspaper reached them. This the
miller read all through, painfully, from the beginning to the end, omitting no detail of the
official occurrences. At last, when he came to the account of Sam's evidence, he got up from
the chair on which he was sitting close to the window, and striking his fist upon the table,
made his first and last comment upon the trial. "It was well said, Sam. Yes; though thou be'est
my own, it was well said." Then he put the paper down and walked out of doors, and they could
see that his eyes were full of tears.

But from that time forth there came a great change in his manner to his youngest daughter.
"Well, Carry," he would say to her in the morning, with as much outward sign of affection as
he ever showed to any one; and at night, when she came and stood over him before he lifted
his weary limbs out of his chair to take himself away to his bed, he turned his forehead to
her to be kissed, as he did to that better daughter who had needed no forgiveness from him.
Nevertheless, they who knew him,--and there were none who knew him better than Fanny did,--were
aware that he never for a moment forgot the disgrace which had fallen upon his household. He
had forgiven the sinner, but the shame of the sin was always on him; and he carried himself
as a man who was bound to hide himself from the eyes of his neighbours because there had come
upon him a misfortune which made it fit that he should live in retirement.

Sam took up his abode in the house, and worked daily in the mill, and for weeks nothing was
said either of his going away or of his return. He would talk to his sisters of the manner
in which he had worked among the machinery of the Durham mine at which he had found employment;
but he said nothing for awhile of the cause which had taken him north, or of his purpose of
remaining where he was. He ate and drank in the house, and from time to time his father paid
him small sums as wages. At last, sitting one evening after the work of the day was done, he
spoke out his mind. "Father," said he, "I'm about minded to get me a wife." His mother and
sisters were all there and heard the proposition made.

"And who is the girl as is to have thee, Sam?" asked his mother.

As Sam did not answer at once, Carry replied for him. "Who should it be, mother;--but only
Agnes Pope?"

"It ain't that 'un?" said the miller, surlily.

"And why shouldn't it be that 'un, father? It is that 'un, and no other. If she be not liked
here, why, we'll just go further, and perhaps not fare worse."

There was nothing to be said against poor Agnes Pope,--only this, that she had been in Trumbull's
house on the night of the murder, and had for awhile been suspected by the police of having
communicated to her lover the tidings of the farmer's box of money. Evil things had of course
been said of her then, but the words spoken of her had been proved to be untrue. She had been
taken from the farmer's house into that of the Vicar,--who had, indeed, been somewhat abused
by the Puddlehamites for harbouring her; but as the belief in Sam's guilt had gradually been
abandoned, so, of course, had the ground disappeared for supposing that poor Agnes had had
ought to do in bringing about the murder of her late master. For two days the miller was very
gloomy, and made no reply when Sam declared his purpose of leaving the mill before Christmas
unless Agnes should be received there as his wife;--but at last he gave way. "As the old 'uns
go into their graves," he said, "it's no more than nature that the young 'uns should become
masters." And so Sam was married, and was taken, with his wife, to live with the other Brattles
at the mill. It was well for the miller that it should be so, for Sam was a man who would surely
earn money when he put his shoulder in earnest to the wheel.

As for Carry, she lived still with them, doomed by her beauty, as was her elder sister by the
want of it, to expect that no lover should come and ask her to establish with him a homestead
of their own.

Our friend the Vicar married Sam and his sweetheart, and is still often at the mill. From time
to time he has made efforts to convert the unbelieving old man whose grave is now so near to
his feet; but he has never prevailed to make the miller own even the need of any change. "I've
struv' to be honest," he said, when last he was thus attacked, "and I've wrought for my wife
and bairns. I ain't been a drunkard, nor yet, as I knows on, neither a tale-bearer, nor yet
a liar. I've been harsh-tempered and dour enough I know, and maybe it's fitting as they shall
be hard and dour to me where I'm going. I don't say again it, Muster Fenwick;--but nothing
as I can do now 'll change it." This, at any rate, was clear to the Vicar,--that Death, when
it came, would come without making the old man tremble.

Mr. Gilmore has been some years away from Bullhampton; but when I last heard from my friends
in that village I was told that at last he was expected home.

Bradbury, Evans, and Co., Printers, Whitefriars.

      *      *      *      *      *      *

   Obvious typographical errors have been corrected.

   Chapter I, paragraph 10. The reader should note that the
   town of Haylesbury named in this paragraph is henceforth
   called Haytesbury.

   Chapter IV, paragraph 1. The gardener is here called
   "Jem;" in the rest of the text he is called "Jim". We
   do not know whether this is a typographical error or
   an example of Trollope's inconsistency with the names
   of minor characters.

   Chapter XL, paragraph 28. The astute reader of Trollope
   will recognize the "Dragon of Wantley" as the name of
   the hostelry inherited by Mr. Harding's daughter Eleanor
   in the "Barsetshire" novels.

   Specific changes in wording of the text are listed below.

      Chapter I, next-to-last paragraph.

      Chapter III, paragraph 7. Full stop after "bugglary"
      was changed to a question mark in the sentence: Not
      bugglary?"

      Chapter IX, paragraph 6.

      Chapter XXII, paragraph 1.

      Chapter XXVIII, paragraph 9. The word "shoudn't" was
      changed to "shouldn't" in the sentence: "I suppose
      not, Mr. Fenwick. I SHOULDN'T ought;--ought I, now?

      Chapter XXXII, paragraph 26.

      Chapter XXXV, paragraph 3.

      Chapter XXXIX, paragraph 13. "Gay" was changed to "Jay"
      in the sentence: Mrs. JAY, no doubt, is a religious
      woman.

      Chapter XLII, paragraph 6.

      Chapter XLVIII, paragraph 2.

      Chapter XLVIII, paragraph 4.

      Chapter XLIX, paragraph 21.