Notwithstanding all absence of suspicion as to having gone astray, he could not help noticing
that the banks on each side appeared to be singularly irregular, as if here and there indented
by deep bays, or reaches of water. Some of these opened out vistas of shining surface, apparently
illimitable, while the dark patches that separated them looked more like clumps of trees half
submerged under water, than stretches of solid earth.

As the galatea continued her course, this puzzling phenomenon ceased to be a conjecture; Tipperary
Tom saw that he was no longer steering down a river between two boundary banks, but on a broad
expanse of water, stretching as far as eye could reach, with no other boundary than that afforded
by a flooded forest.

There was nothing in all this to excite alarm,--at least in the mind of Tipperary Tom. The
Mundurucú, had he been awake, might have shown some uneasiness at the situation. But the Indian
was asleep,--perhaps dreaming of some Múra enemy,--whose head he would have been happy to embalm.

Tom simply supposed himself to be in some part of the Solimoës, flooded beyond its banks, as
he had seen it in more places than one. With this confidence, he stuck faithfully to his steering
oar, and allowed the galatea to glide on. It was only when the reach of water--upon which the
craft was drifting--began to narrow, or rather after it had narrowed to a surprising degree,
that the steersman began to suspect himself of having taken the wrong course.

His suspicions became stronger, at length terminating in a conviction that such was the truth,
when the galatea arrived at a part where less than a cable's length lay between her beam-ends
and the bushes that stood out of the water on both sides of her. Too surely had he strayed
from the "mane sthrame." The craft that carried him could no longer be in the channel of the
mighty Solimoës!

The steersman was alarmed, and this very alarm hindered him from following the only prudent
course he could have taken under the circumstances. He should have aroused his fellow-voyagers,
and proclaimed the error into which he had fallen. He did not do so. A sense of shame at having
neglected his duty, or rather at having performed it in an indifferent manner,--a species of
regret not uncommon among his countrymen,--hindered him from disclosing the truth, and taking
steps to avert any evil consequences that might spring from it.

He knew nothing of the great river on which they were voyaging. There might be such a strait
as that through which the galatea was gliding. The channel might widen below; and, after all,
he might have steered in the proper direction. With such conjectures, strengthened by such
hopes, he permitted the vessel to float on.

The channel did widen again; and the galatea once more rode upon open water. The steersman
was restored to confidence and contentment. Only for a short while did this state of mind continue.
Again the clear water became contracted, this time to a very strip, while on either side extended
reaches and estuaries, bordered by half-submerged bushes,--some of them opening apparently
to the sky horizon, wider and freer from obstruction than that upon which the galatea was holding
her course.

The steersman no longer thought of continuing his course, which he was now convinced must be
the wrong one. Bearing with all his strength upon the steering oar, he endeavored to direct
the galatea back into the channel through which he had come; but partly from the drifting of
the current, and partly owing to the deceptive light of the moon, he could no longer recognize
the latter, and, dropping the rudder in despair, he permitted the vessel to drift whichever
way the current might carry her!

Before Tipperary Tom could summon courage to make known to his companions the dilemma into
which he had conducted them, the galatea had drifted among the tree-tops of the flooded forest,
where she was instantly "brought to anchor."

The crashing of broken boughs roused her crew from their slumbers. The ex-miner, followed by
his children, rushed forth from the tolda. He was not only alarmed, but perplexed, by the unaccountable
occurrence. Mozey was equally in a muddle. The only one who appeared to comprehend the situation
was the old Indian, who showed sufficient uneasiness as to its consequences by the terrified
manner in which he called out: "The Gapo! The Gapo!"

Mayne Reid.

(To be continued.)

CHARADES.

NO. 1.

    An old man lay on a bed of death,
    Slowly drawing each labored breath;
    His pulse was felt by a friendly hand,
    While the doctor issued a stern command
    To swallow my first without delay,
    If he wished to live till another day.
    At this the patient looked my second,
    And slowly spoke: "When Death has beckoned,
    In vain the doctor's healing art;
    I now am called, and I depart;
    I'm glad I've lasted till my third."
    The listeners scarcely caught the word
    With which escaped the unfettered soul,
    And finished then his long--my whole.

H. C.

NO. 2.

    When I'm my first, I lie in bed;
      My second wins me gold;
    My third I keep safe in my head;
      My fourth you may behold
    In all its pride, when victory
    Shall bid my whole light up the sky.

ARITHMETICAL PUZZLES.

NO. 1.

In a gale of wind, the top part of a flagstaff in my neighbor's garden was broken off, and
struck the ground in my garden at a distance of 15 feet from the bottom of the pole, and in
its fall broke two vases, worth $63.25 apiece. My neighbor, in paying for these vases, made
four payments. The second payment was twice as much as the first; the third amounted to three
times as much as the first; and the last amounted to five times as much as the first.

Supposing the broken piece of flagstaff to measure 39 feet, what was the length of the whole
pole, and what did my neighbor pay at each payment?

NO. 2.

100--1--5--1--50.

This is what all young people ought to be.

ENIGMA. No. 1.

    I am composed of 13 letters.
    My 8, 10, is an abrupt dismissal.
    My 11, 5, 7, 8, is not short.
    My 9, 1, 3, 12, goes well with a knife.
    My 13, 12, 6, 7, 12, is an unpleasant animal.
    My 13, 1, 3, 3, 4, is what you will be if
    you can't discover me.
    My 4, 1, 11, 12, is part of an egg.
    My 9, 3, 5, 8, 13, a Frenchman would eat.
    My 9, 2, 7, you like now.
    My whole I hope you will always like.

ILLUSTRATED REBUS.--No. 1.

H. M. T.

VON RAIL.

    There was an old Dutchman, Von Rail,
    Who had an ambition to sail,
        So he put out to sea,
        In a fit of high glee,
    That hilarious old person, Von Rail.