  Weather, forecasting of, 282-285.

  Weight, center of, 30-33*.

  Wet battery, 204-205*.

  White, a combination of all colors, 162.

  Winds, cause of, 20-21.

  Winter, reason for cold in, 127-128.

  Wiring for arc lamps, 236-239.

  Wood, poor conductor of heat, 118;
    carbon and hydrogen in, 315.

  Yardstick, experiment with, to show leverage, 59*-60.

  Yeast, action of, in bread making, 365.

  Yellow, in flames, 318.

  Yerkes Observatory, telescope of, 156*.

  Zinc, in electric battery, 203-206;
    an element, 300;
    used for driving hydrogen out of acid, 301, 304.

       *       *       *       *       *

CONSERVATION SERIES

Conservation Reader

By HAROLD W. FAIRBANKS, Ph. D.

Lecturer, University of California; Geography Supervisor Berkeley Public Schools

A small book bringing out in a simple and interesting manner the principles of conservation
of natural resources has long been wanted, or there has been little on the subject that could
be placed in the hands of pupils. It is to answer this need that Fairbanks' CONSERVATION READER
has been prepared.

The book touches upon every phase of conservation, but it deals at greatest length with saving
the soil, the forests, and wild life.

The matter is presented in an easy narrative style that is calculated to arouse the intelligent
interest of children. The text is illustrated with photographs of wild animals, trees, landscapes,
and rarely beautiful birds, printed in colors. The subject is timely and the treatment is happy
throughout.

CONSERVATION READER should be used as a reader or as a book for regular study in every elementary
school in the country.

  Cloth, vi + 216 pages.
  Price $1.40.

In Indian Days of The Long Ago the author gives an intimate view of Indian life in the olden
days, reveals the great diversity of language, dress, and habits among them, and shows how
every important act of their lives was influenced by spiritual beliefs and practices.

The book tells the story of Kukúsim, an Indian lad who is eagerly awaiting the time when he
shall be a warrior. It is full of mythical lore and thrilling adventures, culminating in the
mountain vigil, when Kukúsim hears the spirit voices which mark the passing of his childhood.
Illustrated with photographs by the author and drawings by F. N. Wilson.

       *       *       *       *       *

Theodore Roosevelt once said that Mr. Curtis has caught glimpses, such as few white men ever
catch, into the strange spiritual and mental life of the Indians. In In the Land of the Head-Hunters
these glimpses are shared with his readers.

The story centers about Motana, the son of the great War Chief. The mountain vigil, the wooing
and winning of Naida, the raid of Yaklus and his warriors, the rescue of the captured Naida,
and the final victory, celebrated by ceremonial dances, are all described. The action is rapid
and the story is told in the direct, simple style of the true epic. Illustrated with thirty
full-page photographs by the author. A book containing a vast amount of information relating
to insect life--the life story of the spider, the fly, the bee, the wasp, and other insects--told
by one who was at once a lover of nature, a great scientist, and a most entertaining writer.
Maeterlinck calls Fabre the "insects' Homer," and declares that his work is as much a classic
as the famous Greek epic, and deserves to be known and studied as a classic.

This is the first time that Fabre's writings have been made available for school use, and the
book will prove a delight to school children wherever they are given the chance to read it.
No live boy or girl could fail to be interested in nature subjects presented by so gifted a
naturalist as Fabre in the form of such absorbing adventures.

The many quaint sketches with which the book has been illustrated by Elias Goldberg complete
its charm.

A useful index is included.

Cloth. 300 pages. Price $1.48. The aim in this text is to win the interest of pupils, to give
them conceptions of nature that are fundamental, and above all to ground them in the method
of science.

The subject matter has to do with the earth sciences, and principally with physics and chemistry.
In the development of each topic, every advantage that the pupils' experience and interest
may afford is utilized. Exercises or experiments are interspersed throughout the work, and
for these only the simplest materials are required. The studies are carried to those connecting
principles which permit the organization of knowledge. The book is illustrated with a number
of excellent photographs and over 200 drawings of more than usual merit.

The text is adapted for use in grades seven, eight, and nine, or in any classes that are about
to take up their first work in science. It will prove helpful to the teachers and pupils who
use it directly, and its influence will continue with classes as they advance. It will thoroughly
ground pupils in those ideas that are prerequisite to any right work in science.

xi + 388 pages.

Completed

HUMAN PHYSIOLOGY. By John W. Ritchie, Professor of Biology, College of William and Mary. A
text on physiology, hygiene, and sanitation for upper grammar or junior high schools. $1.60.

LABORATORY MANUAL FOR HUMAN PHYSIOLOGY. By Carl Hartman, University of Texas. A manual to accompany
Ritchie's Human Physiology. BOUND IN PAPER AND CLOTH. 60 cents and $1.00.

SCIENCE FOR BEGINNERS. By Delos Fall, Albion College, Michigan. A beginning text in general
science for intermediate schools and junior high schools. $1.68.

EXERCISE AND REVIEW BOOK IN BIOLOGY. By J. G. Blaisdell, Yonkers, N. Y., High School. A combined
laboratory guide, notebook and review book for students' use. Written from the standpoint of
efficiency and furnishing material for a year's work and to accompany any one of several high-school
texts in general biology. BOUND IN STRONG PAPER. $1.20.

TREES, STARS, AND BIRDS. By E. L. Moseley, Ohio State Normal College, Bowling Green. A book
of outdoor science for junior high schools and the upper grammar grades. $1.80.

PERSONAL HYGIENE AND HOME NURSING. By Louisa C. Lippitt, University of Wisconsin. A practical
text for use with classes of young women in vocational and industrial high schools, colleges,
and normal schools. $1.68.

SCIENCE OF PLANT LIFE. By E. N. Transeau, Ohio State University. A scientific and very practical
text for high schools. $1.88.

ZOÖLOGY. By T. D. A. Cockerell, University of Colorado. A text for college use. $3.60.

EXPERIMENTAL ORGANIC CHEMISTRY. By A. P. West, University of the Philippines. A text for college
use. $3.20.

COMMON SCIENCE. By Carleton W. Washburne, Superintendent of Schools, Winnetka, Illinois. Especially
made for junior high schools. $1.68. Also Manual for above, 20 cents.

Other volumes are also in preparation. It follows established facts, and bares to the reader
the heart of his race. It is a convincing tale.

The training of the Indian youth is shown; the career of the hero as a warrior is told; his
great work for peace with the Five Tribes is described.

Besides the story, there is an account of the historical Hiawatha; also a complete Glossary
giving definitions as well as pronunciations of the new Indian words. A map of the country
of the Longhouse will enable the reader to follow the journeys of the Indian people.

The book is intended as a supplementary reader in schools, being adapted to the sixth grade
or above. It will also be valuable in groups of the Wood-craft League, Camp-fire Girls, and
Boy Scouts.

You can perform a great many useful and practical chemical experiments, have a lot of fun,
and learn the principles of chemistry, if you have a CHEMCRAFT outfit. And an outfit now will
help you in chemistry later on.

Each CHEMCRAFT outfit is a complete chemical laboratory containing many harmless chemicals,
all needed apparatus, and a Manual of Instruction giving accurate information on the subject.
CHEMCRAFT is real chemistry. These outfits are now used by many schools and are endorsed by
professors and teachers. You can choose your outfit from

FIVE SIZES=NO. 0--75C. NO. 1--$1.50. NO. 2--$2.50. NO. 3--$5.00. NO. 4--$10.00

(West of Denver, Colo., 10% additional)

Sold by most toy stores and in any toy departments. If not obtainable near your home, any outfit
will be delivered from the factory at the price listed. More complete descriptions will be
sent Free to any boy or girl, or school authority, upon request.

THE PORTER CHEMICAL COMPANY

Porter Products Put Science at Your Service

HAGERSTOWN--MARYLAND

       *       *       *       *       *

The Biggest Thing of its kind in the World

CALUMET BAKING POWDER

It may be interesting to know which is the largest city in China--the largest river in Africa--but
it is MORE important to know about the industrial life of your country--because when most of
you go out into the world you will become active figures in the making, buying and selling
of things.

The Calumet Baking Powder factories, in Chicago and East St. Louis are the largest, most modern
and sanitary plants of their kind on earth. More pounds of Calumet are sold than of any other
brand of baking powder.

That is because Calumet is the best purest, most dependable baking powder made; makes the finest,
most wholesome, tasty pies, cakes, biscuits, doughnuts, etc.

You will find the same rule applies to everything you do in life. If you do a thing better
than any one else--your services will always be in demand and you will surely be a leader in
your line of work. Calumet Baking Powder is sold at a moderate price--has more than the usual
leavening strength--and NEVER fails.

A slip in pound can tells how to get the beautifully illustrated Calumet Cook Book.

       *       *       *       *       *

VENUS PENCILS

The largest selling QUALITY pencil in the world

As soft as you wish; as hard as you please; but always smoother than you had dreamed. Any Venus
Pencil you select glides over the paper with a restful freedom from friction.

17 BLACK DEGREES, 3 COPYING

  For bold, heavy lines           6B-5B-4B-3B
  For writing sketching           2B-B-HB-F-H
  For clean fine lines         2H-3H-4H-5H-6H
  For delicate, thin lines           7H-8H-9H

  PLAIN ENDS, PER DOZ.                  $1.00
  RUBBER ENDS, PER DOZ.                  1.20

VENUS ERASERS

12 SIZES

Of the same superb quality as the Venus Pencil

Send for free sample.

At all Stationers and Stores

American Lead Pencil Co. 220 Fifth Ave., N. Y. and London, Eng.

       *       *       *       *       *

page 238: changed "diagramed" to "diagrammed" (As there diagrammed, the electricity passes out...)

page 253: the Morse telegraph code is as in the original; this is not the modern International
Morse code

Page 412, changed "conrcete" to "concrete" (... shall express this ideal in a very concrete way.)

General: variable spelling of iodin/iodine in the original has been preserved

General: spelling of dioxid and chlorid in the original has been preserved