Mount Kineo, at which the boat touched, is a peninsula with a narrow neck, about midway the
lake on the east side. The celebrated precipice is on the east or land side of this, and is
so high and perpendicular that you can jump from the top many hundred feet into the water which
makes up behind the point. A man on board told us that an anchor had been sunk ninety fathoms
at its base before reaching bottom! Probably it will be discovered ere long that some Indian
maiden jumped off it for love once, for true love never could have found a path more to its
mind. We passed quite close to the rock here, since it is a very bold shore, and I observed
marks of a rise of four or five feet on it. The St. Francis Indian expected to take in his
boy here, but he was not at the landing. The father's sharp eyes, however, detected a canoe
with his boy in it far away under the mountain, though no one else could see it. "Where is
the canoe?" asked the captain, "I don't see it"; but he held on nevertheless, and by and by
it hove in sight.

We reached the head of the lake about noon. The weather had in the mean while cleared up, though
the mountains were still capped with clouds. Seen from this point, Mount Kineo, and two other
allied mountains ranging with it north-easterly, presented a very strong family likeness, as
if all cast in one mould. The steamer here approached a long pier projecting from the northern
wilderness and built of some of its logs,--and whistled, where not a cabin nor a mortal was
to be seen. The shore was quite low, with flat rocks on it, overhung with black ash, arbor-vitae,
etc., which at first looked as if they did not care a whistle for us. There was not a single
cabman to cry "Coach!" or inveigle us to the United States Hotel. At length a Mr. Hinckley,
who has a camp at the other end of the "carry," appeared with a truck drawn by an ox and a
horse over a rude log-railway through the woods. The next thing was to get our canoe and effects
over the carry from this lake, one of the heads of the Kennebec, into the Penobscot River.
This railway from the lake to the river occupied the middle of a clearing two or three rods
wide and perfectly straight through the forest. We walked across while our baggage was drawn
behind. My companion went ahead to be ready for partridges, while I followed, looking at the
plants.

This was an interesting botanical locality for one coming from the South to commence with;
for many plants which are rather rare, and one or two which are not found at all, in the eastern
part of Massachusetts, grew abundantly between the rails,--as Labrador tea, kalmia glauca,
Canada blueberry, (which was still in fruit, and a second time in bloom,) Clintonia and Linnaea
Borealis, which last a lumberer called moxon, creeping snowberry, painted trillium, large-flowered
bell-wort, etc. I fancied that the aster radula, diplopappus umbellatus, solidago lanceolatus,
red trumpetweed, and many others which were conspicuously in bloom on the shore of the lake
and on the carry, had a peculiarly wild and primitive look there. The spruce and fir trees
crowded to the track on each side to welcome us, the arbor-vitae with its changing leaves prompted
us to make haste, and the sight of the canoe-birch gave us spirits to do so. Sometimes an evergreen
just fallen lay across the track with its rich burden of cones, looking, still, fuller of life
than our trees in the most favorable positions. You did not expect to find such spruce trees
in the wild woods, but they evidently attend to their toilets each morning even there. Through
such a front-yard did we enter that wilderness.

There was a very slight rise above the lake,--the country appearing like, and perhaps being,
partly a swamp,--and at length a gradual descent to the Penobscot, which I was surprised to
find here a large stream, from twelve to fifteen rods wide, flowing from west to east, or at
right angles with the lake, and not more than two and a half miles from it. The distance is
nearly twice too great on the Map of the Public Lands, and on Colton's Map of Maine, and Russell
Stream is placed too far down. Jackson makes Moosehead Lake to be nine hundred and sixty feet
above high water in Portland harbor. It is higher than Chesuncook, for the lumberers consider
the Penobscot, where we struck it, twenty-five feet lower than Moosehead,--though eight miles
above it is said to be the highest, so that the water can be made to flow either way, and the
river falls a good deal between here and Chesuncook. The carry-man called this about one hundred
and forty miles above Bangor by the river, or two hundred from the ocean, and fifty-five miles
below Hilton's on the Canada road, the first clearing above, which is four and a half miles
from the source of the Penobscot.

At the north end of the carry, in the midst of a clearing of sixty acres or more, there was
a log camp of the usual construction, with something more like a house adjoining, for the accommodation
of the carryman's family and passing lumberers. The bed of withered fir-twigs smelled very
sweet, though really very dirty. There was also a store-house on the bank of the river, containing
pork, flour, iron, bateaux, and birches, locked up.

We now proceeded to get our dinner, which always turned out to be tea, and to pitch canoes,
for which purpose a large iron pot lay permanently on the bank. This we did in company with
the explorers. Both Indians and whites use a mixture of rosin and grease for this purpose,--that
is, for the pitching, not the dinner. Joe took a small brand from the fire and blew the heat
and flame against the pitch on his birch, and so melted and spread it. Sometimes he put his
mouth over the suspected spot and sucked, to see if it admitted air; and at one place, where
we stopped, he set his canoe high on crossed stakes, and poured water into it. I narrowly watched
his motions, and listened attentively to his observations, for we had employed an Indian mainly
that I might have an opportunity to study his ways. I heard him swear once mildly, during this
operation, about his knife being as dull as a hoe,--an accomplishment which he owed to his
intercourse with the whites; and he remarked, "We ought to have some tea before we start; we
shall be hungry before we kill that moose."

At mid-afternoon we embarked on the Penobscot. Our birch was nineteen and a half feet long
by two and a half at the widest part, and fourteen inches deep within, both ends alike, and
painted green, which Joe thought affected the pitch and made it leak. This, I think, was a
middling-sized one. That of the explorers was much larger, though probably not much longer.
This carried us three with our baggage, weighing in all between five hundred and fifty and
six hundred pounds. We had two heavy, though slender, rock-maple paddles, one of them of bird's-eye
maple. Joe placed birch bark on the bottom for us to sit on, and slanted cedar splints against
the cross-bars to protect our backs, while he himself sat upon a cross-bar in the stern. The
baggage occupied the middle or widest part of the canoe. We also paddled by turns in the bows,
now sitting with our legs extended, now sitting upon our legs, and now rising upon our knees;
but I found none of these positions endurable, and was reminded of the complaints of the old
Jesuit missionaries of the torture they endured from long confinement in constrained positions
in canoes, in their long voyages from Quebec to the Huron country; but afterwards I sat on
the cross-bars, or stood up, and experienced no inconvenience.

