The Brownings left Florence soon after this evening. The summer of 1858 was passed in Normandy,
in company with Mr. Browning's father and his sister Sarianna, all of them occupying together
a house on the shore of the Channel, near Havre. They confessed themselves in a heavenly state
of mind, equally appreciative of the French people,--manners, cooking, cutlets, and costumes,
all regarded with perpetual admiration. Penini, too, was by no means behind in his pretty,
childish enthusiasms. He was now nine years of age, reading easily French and German, as well
as the two languages, English and Italian--each of which was as much his native tongue as the
other--and with much proficiency at the piano. Browning already played duets with his little
son, while the happy mother looked smilingly on. Mrs. Browning was one who lived daily her
real life. For there is much truth in the Oriental truism that our real life is that which
we do not live,--in our present environment, at least. She always gave of her best because
she herself dwelt in the perpetual atmosphere of high thought. Full of glancing humor and playfulness
of expression, never scorning homely conditions, she yet lived constantly in the realm of nobleness.

  "Poets become such
  By scorning nothing,"

she has said.

The following winter found them again in Rome, where Mrs. Browning was much occupied with Italian
politics. Her two deepest convictions were faith in the honest purposes of Louis Napoleon,
and her enthusiasm for Italian liberty and unity. In her poem, "A Tale of Villafranca," she
expressed her convictions and feelings. One of their nearer friends in Rome was Massimo d'Azeglio,
the Prime Minister of Piedmont from 1849 to 1852, one of the purest of Italian patriots, who
was full of hope for Italy. Mrs. Browning spoke of "the little prince" in one of her letters
to Isa Blagden as "a gentle, refined boy," and she notes how Massimo d'Azeglio came to see
them, and talked nobly, and confesses herself more proud of his visit "than of another personal
distinction, though I don't pretend to have been insensible to that," she adds, evidently referring
to the meeting with the young prince.

Mrs. Browning's love for novels seemed to have been inherited by her son, for this winter he
was reading an Italian translation of "Monte Cristo" with such enthusiasm as to resolve to
devote his life to fiction. "Dear Mama," he gravely remarked, "for the future I mean to read
novels. I shall read all Dumas's to begin."

On their return to Florence in the spring, Mrs. Browning gives William Page a letter of introduction
to Ruskin, commending Mr. Page "as a man earnest, simple and noble, who "has not been successful
in life, and when I say life I include art, which is life to him. You will recognize in this
name Page," she continues, "the painter of Robert's portrait which you praised for its Venetian
color, and criticised in other respects," she concluded. And she desires Ruskin to know the
"wonder and light and color and space and air" that Page had put into his "Venus Rising from
the Sea," which the Paris salon of that summer had refused on the ground of its nudity,--a
scruple that certainly widely differentiates the Salon of 1858 from that of 1911.

Salvini, even then already recognized as a great artist, was playing in a theater in Florence
that spring, and the Brownings saw with great enjoyment and admiration his impersonations of
Hamlet and Othello.

On a glowing June morning Browning was crossing the Piazza San Lorenzo, when the market-folk
had all their curious wares of odds and ends spread about on tables. At one of these he chanced
on "the square old yellow book" which held the story of the Franceschini tragedy, which the
poet's art transmuted into his greatest poem, "The Ring and the Book." No other single work
of Browning's can rival this in scope and power. It would seem as if he had, at the moment,
almost a prescience of the incalculable value of this crumpled and dilapidated volume; as if
he intuitively recognized what he afterward referred to as "the predestination."

In this brief time he had comprehended the entire story of the trial and execution of Count
Guido Franceschino, Nobleman of Arezzo, for the murder of his wife, Pompilia, and apparently
much of the conception of his great work of future years, "The Ring and the Book," took possession
of him at once. But it was like the seed that must germinate and grow. Little indeed did he
dream that in this chance purchase he had been led to the material for the supreme achievement
of his art.

One evening before leaving Florence for Siena, where the Brownings had taken the Villa Alberti
for the summer, they had Walter Savage Landor to tea, and also Miss Blagden and Kate Field,
then a young girl, studying music in Florence, who was under Miss Blagden's charge. Just as
the tea was placed on the table, Browning turned to his honored guest, and thanked him for
his defense of old songs; and opening Landor's latest book, "Last Fruit," he read in a clear,
vibrant voice from the "Idylls of Theocritus." The chivalrous deference touched the aged poet.
"Ah, you are kind," said he; "you always find out the best bits in my books."

The loyal homage rendered by the younger poet, in all the glow of his power, to the "old master,"
was lovely to see. As will be recalled, Landor had been one of the first to recognize the genius
of Browning when his youthful poem, "Paracelsus," appeared. Landor had then written to Southey:
"God grant that Robert Browning live to be much greater, high as he now stands among most of
the living."

It was one noon soon after this evening that Landor came to Casa Guidi, desolate and distraught,
declaring he had left his villa on the Fiesolean slope never to return, because of his domestic
difficulties. The Brownings were about leaving for Siena and Mr. Browning decided to engage
an apartment for the venerable poet, when the Storys, who were making villeggiatura in the
strange old medieval city, invited Landor to be their guest. The villa where the Storys were
domiciled was near the Brownings, and Landor was much in both households. "He made us a long
visit," wrote Mrs. Story, "and was our honored and cherished guest. His courtesy and high breeding
never failed him." Landor would often be seen astir in the early dawn, sitting under the olive
trees in the garden, writing Latin verses. To Kate Field, who had become a great favorite with
the Brownings, Mr. Browning wrote with some bit of verse of Landor's:

    SIENA, VILLA ALBERTI, July 18.

    DEAR MISS FIELD:--I have only a minute to say that Mr. Landor wrote
    these really pretty lines in your honor the other day,--you remember
    on what circumstances they turn. I know somebody who is ready to
    versify to double the extent at the same cost to you, and do his best,
    too, and you also know.

    Yours Affectionately Ever,

    R. B.

    The servant waits for this and stops the expansion of soul!

    P. S. ... What do you mean by pretending that we are not the obliged,
    the grateful people? Your stay had made us so happy, come and make us
    happy again, says (or would say were she not asleep) my wife, and
    yours also,--

    R. B.

Of Landor, while they were in Siena, Mrs. Browning wrote to a friend that Robert always said
he owed more to him than any other contemporary, and that Landor's genius insured him the gratitude
of all artists. In these idyllic days Mr. Story's young daughter, Edith, (now the Marchesa
Peruzzi di Medici, of Florence,) had a birthday, which the poetic group all united to celebrate.
In honor of the occasion Landor not only wrote a Latin poem for the charming girl, but he appeared
in a wonderful flowered waistcoat, one that dated back to the days of Lady Blessington, to
the amusement of all the group. From Isa Blagden, who remained in her villa on Bellosguardo,
came almost daily letters to Mrs. Browning, who constantly gained strength in the life-giving
air of Siena, where they looked afar over a panorama of purple hills, with scarlet sunsets
flaming in the west, the wind blowing nearly every day, as now. The Cave of the Winds, as celebrated
by Virgil, might well have been located in Siena.

Mrs. Browning and Mrs. Story would go back and forth to visit each other, mounted on donkeys,
their husbands walking beside, as they had done in the Arcadian days at Bagni di Lucca. Odo
Russell passed two days with the Brownings on his way from Rome to London, to their great enjoyment.
Landor's health and peace of mind became so far restored that he was able to "write awful Latin
alcaics." Penini, happy in his great friends, the Story children, Julian, Waldo, and Edith,
and hardly less so with the contadini, whom he helped to herd the sheep and drive in the grape-carts,
galloped through lanes on his own pony, insisted on reading to his contadini from the poems
of Dall' Ongaro, and grew apace in happiness and stature. For two hours every day his father
taught him music, and the lad already played Beethoven sonatas, and music of difficult execution
from German composers.

The Brownings and the Storys passed many evenings together, "sitting on the lawn under the
ilexes and the cypresses, with tea and talk, until the moon had made the circuit of the quarter
of the sky." Mrs. Browning's health grew better, and Story writes to Charles Eliot Norton that
"Browning is in good spirits about her, and Pen is well, and as I write," he continues, "I
hear him laughing and playing with my boys and Edith on the terrace below."

It was late in October before they returned to Florence, and then only for a sojourn of six
weeks before going to Rome for the winter. The Siena summer had been a period of unalloyed
delight to Mrs. Browning, whose health was much improved, and not the least of the happiness
of both had been due to the congenial companionship of the Storys, and to their delicate courtesies,
which Mrs. Browning wrote to Mrs. Jameson that she could never forget. Browning wrote to Mrs.
Story saying to her that she surely did not need to be told how entirely they owed "the delightful
summer" to her own and Mr. Story's kindness. "Ba is hardly so well," he adds, "as when she
was let thrive in that dear old villa and the pleasant country it hardly shut out."

Mrs. Browning's small book, the "Poems before Congress," only eight in all, was published in
this early spring of 1860, and met with no cheering reception. She felt this keenly, but said,
"If I were ambitious of any thing it would be to be wronged where, for instance, Cavour is
wronged." With Mrs. Browning a political question was equally a moral question. Her devotion
to Italy, and faith in the regeneration of the country, were vital matters to her. She was
deeply touched by the American attitude toward her poem, "A Curse for a Nation," for the Americans,
she noted, rendered thanks to the reprover of ill deeds, "understanding the pure love of the
motive." These very "Poems before Congress" brought to her praises, and the offer of high prices
as well, and of this nation she said it was generous.

A letter from Robert Browning written to Kate Field, who was then in Florence with Miss Blagden,
and which has never before been published, is as follows:

    ROME, VIA DEL TRITONE, 28,

    March 29th, 1860.

    DEAR MISS FIELD,--Do you really care to have the little photograph?
    Here it is with all my heart. I wonder I dare be so frank this
    morning, however, for a note just rec'd from Isa mentions an instance
    of your acuteness, that strikes me with a certain awe. "Kate," she
    says, "persists that the 'Curse for a Nation' is for America, and not
    England." You persist, do you? No doubt against the combined
    intelligence of our friends who show such hunger and thirst for a new
    poem of Ba's--and, when they get it, digest the same as you see.
    "Write a nation's curse for me," quoth the antislavery society five
    years ago, "and send it over the Western sea." "Not so," replied poor
    little Ba, "for my heart is sore for my own lands' sins, which are
    thus and thus,--what curse assign to another land when heavy for the
    sins of mine?" "Write it for that very reason," rejoined Ba's cheerer,
    "because thou hast strength to see and hate a foul thing done within
    thy gate," and so, after a little more dallying, she wrote and sent
    over the Western seas what all may read, but it appears only Kate
    Field, out of all Florence, can understand. It seems incredible. How
    did you find out, beside, the meaning of all these puzzling passages
    which I quote in the exact words of the poem? In short, you are not
    only the delightful Kate Field which I always knew you to be, but the
    sole understander of Ba in all Florence. I can't get over it....

    Browning, the husband, means to try increasingly and somewhat
    intelligibly to explain to all his intimates at Florence, with the
    sole exception of Kate Field; to whose comprehension he will rather
    endeavor to rise, than to stoop, henceforth. And so, with true love
    from Ba to Kate Field, and our united explanation to all other
    friends, that the subject matter of the present letter is by no means
    the annexation of Savoy and Nice, she will believe me,

    Hers very faithfully

    ROBERT BROWNING.

To Kate Field Mrs. Browning wrote, the letter undated, but evidently about this time, apparently
in reply to some request of Miss Field's to be permitted to write about them for publication:

    MY DEAR KATE,--I can't put a seal on your lips when I know them to be
    so brave and true. Take out your license, then, to name me as you
    please, only remembering, dear, that even kind words are not always
    best spoken. Here is the permission, then, to say nothing about your
    friends except that they are your friends, which they will always be
    glad to have said and believed. I had a letter from America to-day,
    from somebody who, hearing I was in ill health, desired to inform me
    that he wouldn't weep for me, were it not for Robert Browning and
    Penini! No, don't repeat that. It was kindly meant, and you are
    better, my dear Kate, and happier, and we are all thanking God for
    Italy. Love us here a little, and believe that we all love and think
    of you.

    Yours ever affectionately,

    E. B. B.

The American appreciation of Mrs. Browning constantly increased, and editors offered her an
hundred dollars each for any poem, long or short, that might pass through their publications
on its way to final destiny.

Theodore Parker had passed that winter in Rome, and Mrs. Browning felt that he was "high and
noble." Early in May he left for Florence, where his death occurred before the return of the
Brownings.

The education of Penini during these months was conducted by an old Abbé, who was also the
instructor of Mr. Story's only daughter, Edith, and the two often shared their lessons, the
lad going to Palazzo Barberini to join Miss Edith in this pursuit of knowledge. Certain traditions
of the venerable Abbé have drifted down the years, indicating that his breviary and meditations
on ecclesiastical problems did not exclusively occupy his mind, for the present Marchesa Peruzzi
has more than one laughing reminiscence of this saintly father, who at one time challenged
his pupil to hop around the large table on one foot. The hilarity of the festivity was not
lessened when the Reverendo himself joined in the frolic, his robes flapping around him, as
they all contributed to the merriment. The Marchesa has many a dainty note written to her by
Penini's mother. Once it is as Pen's amanuensis that she serves, praying the loan of a "'Family
Robinson,' by Mayne Reid," to solace the boy in some indisposition. "I doubt the connection
between Mayne Reid and Robinson," says Mrs. Browning, "but speak as I am bidden." And another
note was to tell "Dearest Edith" that Pen's papa wanted him for his music, and that there were
lessons, beside; and "thank dear Edith for her goodness," and "another day, with less obstacles."
The intercourse between the Brownings and the Storys was always so full of mutual comprehension
and perfect sympathy and delicate, lovely recognition on both sides, that no life of either
the sculptor or the wedded poets could be presented that did not include these constant amenities
of familiar, affectionate intercourse.

Many English friends of the Brownings came and went that winter, and among others was Lady
Annabella Nöel, a granddaughter of Lord Byron, and a great admirer of Mr. Browning. A new acquaintance
of the Brownings was Lady Marion Alford, a daughter of the Earl of Northampton, "very eager
about literature, and art, and Robert," laughed Mrs. Browning, and Lady Marion and "Hatty"
(Miss Hosmer) were, it seems, mutually captivated.

Some of the English artists came to Rome, Burne-Jones and Val Prinsep among them, and they
with Browning wandered about the classic byways of the city and drove to see the Coliseum by
moonlight.

In June the Brownings left Rome, by way of Orvieto and Chiusi. They crossed that dead, mystic
Campagna that flows, like a sea, all around Rome--a sea of silence and mystery; with its splendid
ruins of the old aqueducts and tombs, its vast stretches of space that were all aglow, in those
June days, with scarlet poppies. They stopped one night at Viterbo, the little city made famous
since those days by Richard Bagot's tragic novel, "Temptation," and where the convent is interesting
from its associations with Vittoria Colonna, who in 1541 made here a retreat for meditation
and prayer.

In Orvieto they rested for a day and night, and Mrs. Browning was able to go with her husband
into the marvelous cathedral, with its "jeweled and golden façade" and its aerial Gothic construction.
Mr. Browning, with his little son, drove over to the wild, curious town of Bagnorgio, which,
though near Orvieto, is very little known. But this was the birthplace of Giovanni da Fidenza,
the "Seraphic Doctor," who was canonized as St. Buonaventura, from the exclamation of San Francesco,
who, on awakening from a dream communion with Giovanni da Fidenza, exclaimed, "O buona ventura!"
Dante introduces this saint into the Divina Commedia, as chanting the praises of San Domenico
in Paradise:

  "Io san vita di Bonaventura
  Du Bagnorgio, che ne grandi uffici,
  Sempre posposi la sinistra cura."

Bagnorgio is, indeed, the heart of poetic legend and sacred story, but it is so inaccessible,
perched on its high hill, with deep chasms, evidently the work of earthquakes, separating it
from the route of travel, that from a distance it seems impossible that any conveyance save
an airship could ever reach the town.

By either route, through the Umbrian region, by way of Assisi and Perugia, or by way of Orvieto
and Siena, the journey between Rome and Florence is as beautiful as a dream. The Brownings
paused for one night's rest at Lake Thrasymene, the scenes of the battlefield of Hannibal and
Flaminius, with the town on a height overlooking the lake. "Beautiful scenery, interesting
pictures and tombs," said Mrs. Browning of this journey, "but a fatiguing experience." She
confessed to not feeling as strong as she had the previous summer, but still they were planning
their villeggiatura in Siena, taking the same villa they had occupied the previous season,
where Penini should keep tryst with the old Abbé, who was to come with the Storys and with
his Latin.

They found Landor well and fairly amenable to the new conditions of his life. Domiciled with
Isa Blagden was Miss Frances Power Cobbe, who was drawn to Florence that spring largely to
meet Theodore Parker, with whom she had long corresponded. Mr. and Mrs. Lewes (George Eliot)
were in Florence that spring of 1860, the great novelist making her studies for "Romola." They
were the guests of the Thomas Adolphus Trollopes.

Landor, too, came frequently to take tea with Miss Blagden and Miss Cobbe on their terrace,
and discuss art with Browning. Dall' Ongaro and Thomas Adolphus Trollope were frequently among
the little coterie. His visits to Casa Guidi and his talks with Mrs. Browning were among the
most treasured experiences of Mr. Trollope. "I was conscious, even then," he afterward wrote
in his reminiscences of this lovely Florentine life, "of coming away from Casa Guidi a better
man, with higher views and aims. The effect was not produced by any talk of the nature of preaching,
but simply by the perception and appreciation of what Elizabeth Browning was: of the purity
of the spiritual atmosphere in which she habitually dwelt."

Miss Hosmer came, too, that spring, as the guest of Miss Blagden, and she often walked down
the hill to breakfast with her friends in Casa Guidi. Browning, who was fond of an early walk,
sometimes went out to meet her, and on one occasion they had an escapade which "Hatty" related
afterward with great glee. It was on one of these morning encounters that Miss Hosmer confessed
to the poet that the one longing of her soul was to ride behind Caretta, the donkey, and Browning
replied that nothing could be easier, as Girolamo, Caretta's owner, was the purveyor of vegetables
to Casa Guidi, and that they would appropriate his cart for a turn up Poggia Imperiale. "Di
gustibus non," began Browning. "Better let go Latin and hold on to the cart," sagely advised
the young sculptor. In the midst of their disasters from the surprising actions of Caretta,
they met her owner. "Dio mio" exclaimed Girolamo, "it is Signor Browning. San Antonio!" Girolamo
launched forth into an enumeration of all the diabolical powers possessed by Caretta, and called
on all the saints to witness that she was a disgrace to nature. Meantime the poet, the sculptor,
the vegetables, and the donkey were largely combined into one hopeless mass, and Browning's
narration and re-enactment of the tragedy, after they reached Casa Guidi, threw Mrs. Browning
into peals of laughter.

Again the Brownings sought their favorite Siena, where Miss Blagden joined them, finding a
rude stone villino, of two or three rooms only, the home of some contadini, within fifteen
minutes' walk of Mrs. Browning, and taking it to be near her friend. But for the serious illness
of Mrs. Browning's sister Henrietta (Mrs. Surtees Cook) the summer would have been all balm
and sunshine. The Storys were very near, and Mr. Landor had been comfortably housed not far
from his friends, who gave the aged scholar the companionship he best loved. Browning took
long rides on horseback, exploring all the romantic regions around Siena, such rides that he
might almost have exclaimed with his own hero, the Grand Duke Ferdinand,--

  "For I ride--what should I do but ride?"

Penini, too, galloped through the lanes on his pony, his curls flying in the wind, and read
Latin with the old Abbé. The lessons under this genial tutor were again shared with Miss Edith
Story, one of whose earliest childish recollections is of sitting on a low hassock, leaning
against Mrs. Browning, while Penini sat on the other side, and his mother talked with both
the children. Mr. Story's two sons, the future painter and sculptor respectively, were less
interested at this time in canvas and clay than they were in their pranks and sports. The Storys
and Brownings, Miss Blagden and Landor, all loaned each other their books and newspapers, and
discussed the news and literature of the day. The poet was much occupied in modeling, and passed
long mornings in Mr. Story's improvised studio, where he copied two busts, the "Young Augustus"
and the "Psyche," with notable success.

In the October of that year both the Brownings and the Storys returned to Rome, the poets finding
a new apartment in the Via Felice. Mrs. Browning's sister Henrietta died that autumn, and in
her grief she said that one of the first things that did her good was a letter from Mrs. Stowe.
She notes her feeling that "how mere a line it is to overstep between the living and the dead."
Her spiritual insight never failed her, and of herself she said: "I wish to live just so long,
and no longer, than to grow in the spirit."

In the days of inevitable sadness after her sister's death, whatever the consolations and reassurances
of faith and philosophy, Mrs. Browning wrote to a friend of the tender way in which her husband
shielded her, and "for the rest," she said, "I ought to have comfort, for I believe that love,
in its most human relations, is an eternal thing."

Penini and his friend, Miss Edith, continued their studies under the old Abbé; his mother heard
him read a little German daily, and his father "sees to his music, and the getting up of arithmetic,"
noted Mrs. Browning. The lad rode on his pony over Monte Pincio, and occasionally cantered
out on the Campagna with his father. But Mrs. Browning had come to know that her stay on earth
was to be very brief, and to her dear Isa she wrote that for the first time she had pain in
looking into her little son's face--"which you will understand," she adds, but to her husband
she did not speak of this premonition. She urged him to go out into the great world, for Rome
was socially resplendent that winter. Among other notable festivities there was a great ball
given by Mrs. Hooker, where princes and cardinals were present, and where the old Roman custom
of attending the princes of the church up and down the grand staircase with flaming torches
was observed. The beautiful Princess Rospoli was a guest that night, appearing in the tri-color.
Commenting on the Civil War that was threatening America, Mrs. Browning said she "believed
the unity of the country should be asserted with a strong hand."

Val Prinsep, in Rome that winter, was impressed by Mr. Browning into the long walks in which
they both delighted, and they traversed Rome on both sides the Tiber. The poet was not writing
regularly in those days, though his wife "gently wrangled" with him to give more attention
to his art, and held before him the alluring example of the Laureate who shut himself up daily
for prescribed work. Browning had "an enormous superfluity of vital energy," which he had to
work off in long walks, in modeling, and in conversations. "I wanted his poems done this winter
very much," said Mrs. Browning; "and here was a bright room with three windows consecrated
to use.... There has been little poetry done since last winter." But in later years Browning
became one of the most regular of workers, and considered that day lost on which he had not
written at least some lines of poetry. At this time the poet was fascinated by his modeling.
"Nothing but clay does he care for, poor, lost soul," laughed Mrs. Browning.

In days when Mrs. Browning felt able to receive visitors, there were many to avail themselves
of the privilege. On one day came Lady Juliana Knox, bringing Miss Sewell (Amy Herbert); and
M. Carl Grun, a friend of the poet, Dall' Ongaro, came with a letter from the latter, who wished
to translate into Italian some of the poems of Mrs. Browning. Lady Juliana had that day been
presented to the Holy Father, and she related to Mrs. Browning how deeply touched she had been
by his adding to the benediction he gave her, "Priez pour le pape."

Penini had a choice diversion in that the Duchesse de Grammont, of the French Embassy, gave
a "matinée d'enfants," to which he received a card, and went, resplendent in a crimson velvet
blouse, and was presented to small Italian princes of the Colonna, the Doria, Piombiono, and
others, and played leap-frog with his titled companions.

Mrs. Browning reads with eager interest a long speech of their dear friend, Milsand, which
filled seventeen columns of the Moniteur, a copy of which his French friend sent to Browning.

The Brownings had planned to join the poet's father and sister in Paris that summer, but a
severe attack of illness in which for a few days her life was despaired of made Mrs. Browning
fear that she would be unable to take the journey. Characteristically, her only thought was
for the others, never for herself, and she writes to Miss Browning how sad she is in the thought
of her husband's not seeing his father, and "If it were possible for Robert to go with Pen,"
she continues, "he should, but he wouldn't go without me."

When she had sufficiently recovered to start for Florence, they set out on June 4, resting
each night on the way, and reaching Siena four days later, where they lingered. From there
Mr. Browning wrote to the Storys that they had traveled through exquisite scenery, and that
Ba had borne the journey fairly well. But on arriving in Florence and opening their apartment
again in Casa Guidi, it was apparent that the poet had decided rightly that there was to be
no attempt made to visit Paris.

  "O beauty of holiness,
  Of self-forgetfulness, of lowliness!"

It is difficult to read unmoved her last words written to Miss Sarianna Browning.

For a week previous to her transition to that diviner world in which she always dwelt, even
on earth, she was unable to leave her couch; but she smilingly assured them each day that she
was better, and in the last afternoon she received a visit from her beloved Isa, to whom she
spoke with somewhat of her old fire of generous enthusiasm of the new Premier, who was devoted
to the ideals of Cavour, and in whose influence she saw renewed hope for Italy. The Storys
were then at Leghorn, having left Rome soon after the departure of the Brownings, and they
were hesitating between Switzerland for the summer, or going again to Siena, where they and
the Brownings might be together. The poet had been intending to meet the Storys at Leghorn
that night, but he felt that he could not leave his wife, though with no prescience of the
impending change. She was weak, but they talked over their summer plans, decided they would
soon go to Siena, and agreed that they would give up Casa Guidi that year, and take a villa
in Florence, instead. They were endeavoring to secure an apartment in Palazzo Barberini for
the winter, the Storys being most anxious that they should be thus near together, and Mrs.
Browning discussed with him the furnishing of the rooms in case they decided upon the Palazzo.
Only that morning Mr. Lytton had called, and while Mrs. Browning did not see him, her husband
talked with him nearly all the morning. Late in the evening she seemed a little wandering,
but soon she slept, waking again about four, when they talked together, and she seemed to almost
pass into a state of ecstasy, expressing to him in the most ardent and tender words her love
and her happiness. The glow of the luminous Florentine dawn brightened in the room, and with
the words "It is beautiful!" she passed into that realm of life and light and loveliness in
which she had always seemed to dwell.

Curiously, Miss Blagden had not slept at all that night. After her return from her visit to
Mrs. Browning the previous afternoon, "every trace of fatigue vanished," she wrote to a friend,
"and all my faculties seemed singularly alert. I was unable to sleep, and sat writing letters
till dawn, when a cabman came to tell me 'La Signora della Casa Guidi e morte!'"

The Storys came immediately from Leghorn, and Miss Blagden took Edith Story and Penini to her
villa. It was touching to see his little friend's endeavor to comfort the motherless boy. Mr.
and Mrs. Story stayed with Browning in the rooms where everything spoke of her presence: the
table, strewn with her letters and books; her little chair, a deep armchair of dark green velvet,
which her son now holds sacred among his treasures, was drawn by the table just as she had
left it, and in her portfolio was a half-finished letter to Madame Mario, speaking of Cavour,
and her noble aspirations for Italy.

In the late afternoon of July 1, 1861, a group of English and American, with many Italian friends
gathered about the little casket in the lovely cypress-shaded English cemetery of Florence,
and as the sun was sinking below the purple hills it was tenderly laid away, while the amethyst
mountains hid their faces in a misty veil.

     *       *       *       *       *

  God strikes a silence through you all,
  And giveth His beloved, sleep."

"The cycle is complete," said Browning to the Storys, as they all stood in those desolate rooms
and gazed about. The salon was just as she had left it; the table covered with books and magazines,
her little chair drawn up to it, the long windows open to the terrace, and the faint chant
of nuns, "made for midsummer nights," in San Felice, on the air. "Here we came fifteen years
ago," continued Mr. Browning; "here Ba wrote her poems for Italy; here Pen was born; here we
used to walk up and down this terrace on summer evenings." The poet lingered over many tender
reminiscences, and after the Storys had taken leave, he and his son yielded to the entreaties
of Isa Blagden to stay with her in her villa on Bellosguardo during the time that he was preparing
to leave Florence, which he never looked upon again.

When all matters of detail were concluded, Miss Blagden, "perfect in all kindness," accompanied
them to Paris, continuing her own journey to England, while Browning with his son, his father,
and sister, proceeded to St. Enogat, near St. Malo, on the Normandy coast. Before Mrs. Browning's
illness there had been a plan that all the Brownings and Mr. and Mrs. W. J. Stillman should
pass the summer together at Fontainebleau.

There was something about St. Enogat singularly restful to Browning, the sea, the solitude,
the "unspoiled, fresh, and picturesque place," as he described it in a letter to Madame Du
Quaire. The mystic enchantment of it wrought its spell, and Penini had his pony and was well
and cheerful, and Browning realized too well that the change called death is but the passing
through "the gates of new life," to be despairing in his sorrow. The spirit of one

  "... who never turned his back, but marched breast forward,"

breathes through all the letters that he wrote at this time to friends. "Don't fancy I am prostrated,"
he wrote to Leighton; "I have enough to do for myself and the boy, in carrying out her wishes."
Somewhat later he expressed his wish that Mr. (later Sir Frederick) Leighton should design
the memorial tomb, in that little Florence cemetery, for his wife; and the marble with only
"E. B. B." inscribed on it, visited constantly by all travelers in Florence and rarely found
without flowers, is the one Sir Frederick designed.

In a letter to his boyhood's friend, Miss Haworth, Browning alluded to the future, when Penini
would so need the help of "the wisdom, the genius, the piety" of his mother; and the poet adds:
"I have had everything, and shall not forget." In reply to a letter of sympathy from Kate Field,
he wrote:

    "DEAR FRIEND,--God bless you for all your kindness which I shall never
    forget. I cannot write now except to say this, and beside, that I have
    had great comfort from the beginning."

In the early autumn Browning took his son to London. The parting of the ways had come, and
already he dimly perceived that the future would not copy fair the past. There are "reincarnations,"
in all practical effect, that are realized in this life as well as, speculatively, hereafter;
and his days of Italian terraces and oleander blooms, of enchanting hours on Bellosguardo,
and lingerings in old palaces and galleries, and saunterings down narrow streets crowded with
contadini,--these days were as entirely past as if he had been transported to another planet.

  "Not death; we do not call it so,
  Yet scarcely more with dying breath
  Do we forego;
  We pass an unseen line,
  And lo! another zone."

The sea and the sands and the sky prefigured themselves in those days to Browning as all indistinguishably
blended in an unreal world, from which the past had receded and on which the Future had not
yet dawned.

  "Gray rocks and grayer sea,
    And surf along the shore;
  And in my heart a name
    My lips shall speak no more."

To Story he wrote with assurances of affection, but saying, "I can't speak about anything.
I could, perhaps, if we were together, but to write freezes me." Miss Blagden, in London, had
taken rooms in Upper Westbourne Terrace, and when in the late autumn Browning and his son went
on to England, he took an apartment in Chichester Road, almost opposite the house where Miss
Blagden was staying. But she had lived too long in enchanted Florence to be content elsewhere,
and she soon returned to her villa on the heights of Bellosguardo, from which the view is one
of the most beautiful in all Europe. Browning soon took the house, No. 19 Warwick Crescent,
which for nearly all the rest of his life continued to be his home. Here he was near Mrs. Browning's
sister, Arabel Barrett, of whom he was very fond, and whose love for her sister's little son
was most grateful to them both. Mr. Browning had his old tapestries, pictures, and furniture
of old Florentine carving, some of it black with age, sent on from Casa Guidi, and he proceeded
to transform a prim London house into an interior of singular charm. He lined the staircase
with Italian pictures; books overflowed in all the rooms, and the glimpse of water in the canal
near reflected the green trees of the Crescent, giving the place a hint of sylvan Arcadias.
There was the grand piano on which Penini practiced, and a tutor was engaged to prepare the
lad for the university. The poet felt that this was the critical time to give his son "the
English stamp," in "whatever it is good for," he added. But as a matter of fact the young Florentine
had little affinity with English ways. He was the child of poets; a linguist from his infancy,
an omnivorous reader, and with marked talent for art, distinguishing himself later in both
painting and sculpture, but he had little inclination for the exact sciences.

In his London home Browning was soon again launched on a tide of work,--the dearest of which
was in preparing the "Last Poems" of his wife for publication. He gave it a dedication to "Grateful
Florence, and Tommaseo, her spokesman." He was also preparing a new edition of his own works
to be issued in three volumes. The tutor he had secured for his son was considered skillful
in "grammatical niceties," which, he said, "was much more to my mind than to Pen's." But he,
as well as the boy, was homesick for Italy, and he wrote to Story that his particular reward
would be "just to go back to Italy, to Rome"; and he adds:

