     "Now, on which side the law of nations should throw the guilt
     of most atrocious murder, is of little comparative consequence,
     or whether it should attach it to both sides equally; but that
     the deliberate starving to death of twenty thousand helpless
     persons should be regarded as a crime in one or both of the
     parties concerned in it, seems to me self-evident. The simplest
     course would seem to be, that all non-combatants should be
     allowed to go out of a blockaded town, and that the general who
     should refuse to let them pass, should be regarded in the same
     light as one who were to murder his prisoners, or who were to
     be in the habit of butchering women and children. For it is not
     true that war only looks to the speediest and most effectual
     way of attaining its object; so that, as the letting the
     inhabitants go out would enable the garrison to maintain the
     town longer, the laws of war authorize the keeping them in and
     starving them. Poisoning wells might be a still quicker method
     of reducing a place; but do the laws of war therefore sanction
     it? I shall not be supposed for a moment to be placing the
     guilt of the individuals concerned in the two cases which I am
     going to compare, on an equal footing; it would be most unjust
     to do so--for in the one case they acted, as they supposed,
     according to a law which made what they did their duty. But,
     take the cases themselves, and examine them in all their
     circumstances; the degree of suffering inflicted--the innocence
     and helplessness of the sufferers--the interests at stake--and
     the possibility of otherwise securing them; and if any man can
     defend the lawfulness in the abstract of the starvation of the
     inhabitants of Genoa, I will engage also to establish the
     lawfulness of the massacres of September."

We rejoice to find that the great authority of Colonel W. Napier--an authority of which posterity
will know the value--is arrayed on the side of those who think that war, the best school, as
after all it must often be, of some of our noblest virtues, need not be always the cause of
such atrocities.

This enquiry shows us how the centre of external movement in Europe has varied; but it is not
merely to the territorial struggle that our attention should be confined--mighty principles,
Christian truth, civil freedom, were often partially at issue on one side, or on the other,
in the different contests which the gold and steel of Europe were set in motion to determine;
hence the necessity of considering not only the moral power, but the economical and military
strength of the respective countries. It requires no mean share of political wisdom to mitigate
an encounter with the financial difficulties by which every contest is beset. The evils of
the political and social state of France were brought to a head by the dilapidation of its
revenues, and occasioned, not the Revolution itself, but the disorders by which it was accompanied.
And more than half of our national revenue is appropriated to the payment of our own debt;
in other words, every acre of land, besides the support of its owner and the actual demands
of the State, is encumbered with the support of two or three persons who represent the creditors
of the nation; and every man who would have laboured twelve hours, had no national debt existed,
is now obliged to toil sixteen for the same remuneration: such a state of things may be necessary,
but it certainly requires investigation.

Other parts of the law of nations, the maritime law especially, require improvement. Superficial
men are apt to overlook the transcendent importance of error on these subjects by which desolation
may be spread from one quarter of the globe to the other. As no man can bear long the unanimous
disapprobation of his fellows, no nation can long set at defiance the voice of a civilized
world. But we return to history in military operations. A good map is essential to this study.
For instance, to understand the wars of Frederick the Great, it is not enough to know that
he was defeated at Kolin, Hochkirchen, and Cunersdorf--that he was victorious at Rosbach, Lowositz,
Zorndorf, and Prague--that he was opposed by Daun, and Laudohn, and Soltikoff--we must also
comprehend the situation of the Prussian dominions with regard to those of the allies--the
importance of Saxony as covering Prussia on the side of Austria--the importance of Silesia
as running into the Austrian frontier, and flanking a large part of Bohemia, should also be
considered--this will alone enable us to account for Frederick's attack on Saxony, and his
pertinacity in keeping possession of Silesia; nor should it be forgotten, that the military
positions of one generation are not always those of the next, and that the military history
of one period will be almost unintelligible, if judged according to the roads and fortresses
of another. For instance, St Dizier in Champagne, which arrested Charles the Fifth's invading
army, is now perfectly untenable--Turin, so celebrated for the sieges it has sustained, is
an open town, while Alexandria is the great Piedmontese fortress. The addition of Paris to
the list of French strongholds, is, if really intended, a greater change than any that has
been enumerated. This discussion leads to an allusion to mountain warfare, which has been termed
the poetry of the military art, and of which the struggle in Switzerland in 1799, when the
eastern part of that country was turned into a vast citadel, defended by the French against
Suwaroff, is a most remarkable instance, as well as the most recent. The history by General
Mathieu Dumas of the campaign in 1799 and 1800, is referred to as containing a good account
and explanation of this branch of military science.

The internal history of Europe during the three hundred and forty years which have elapsed
since the middle ages, is the subject now proposed for our consideration. To the question--What
was the external object of Europe during any part of this period? the answer is obvious, that
it was engaged in resisting the aggression of Spain, or France, or Austria. But if we carry
our view to the moral world, do we find any principle equally obvious, and a solution as satisfactory?
By no means. We may, indeed, say, with apparent precision, that during the earliest part of
this epoch, Europe was divided between the champions and antagonists of religion, as, during
its latter portion, it was between the enemies and supporters of political reformation. But
a deeper analysis will show us that these names were but the badges of ideas, always complex,
sometimes contradictory--the war-cry of contending parties, by whom the reality was now forgotten,
or to whom, compared with other purposes, it was altogether subordinate.

Take, for instance, the exercise of political power. Is a state free in proportion to the number
of its subjects who are admitted to rank among its citizens, or to the degree in which its
recognised citizens are invested with political authority? In the latter point of view, the
government of Athens was the freest the world has ever seen. In the former it was a most exclusive
and jealous oligarchy. "For a city to be well governed," says Aristotle in his Politics, "those
who share in its government must be free from the care of providing for their own support.
This," he adds, "is an admitted truth."

Again, the attentive reader can hardly fail to see that, in the struggle between Pompey and
Cæsar, Cæsar represented the popular as Pompey did the aristocratical party, and that Pompey's
triumph would have been attended, as Cicero clearly saw, by the domination of an aristocracy
in the shape most oppressive and intolerable. The government of Rome, after several desperate
struggles, had degenerated into the most corrupt oligarchy, in which all the eloquence of Cicero
was unable to kindle the faintest gleam of public virtue. Owing to the success of Cæsar, the
civilized world exchanged the dominion of several tyrants for that of one, and the opposition
to his design was the resistance of the few to the many.

Or we may take another view of the subject. By freedom do we mean the absence of all restraint
in private life, the non-interference by the state in the details of ordinary intercourse?
According to such a view, the old government of Venice and the present government of Austria,
where debauchery is more than tolerated, would be freer than the Puritan commonwealths in North
America, where dramatic representations were prohibited as impious, and death was the legal
punishment of fornication.

These are specimens of the difficulties by which we are beset, when we endeavour to obtain
an exact and faithful image from the troubled medium through which human affairs are reflected
to us. Dr Arnold dwells on this point with his usual felicity of language and illustration.

     "This inattention to altered circumstances, which would make us
     be Guelfs in the sixteenth or seventeenth centuries, because
     the Guelf cause had been right in the eleventh or twelfth, is a
     fault of most universal application in all political questions,
     and is often most seriously mischievous. It is deeply seated in
     human nature, being, in fact, no other than an exemplification
     of the force of habit. It is like the case of a settler,
     landing in a country overrun with wood and undrained, and
     visited therefore by excessive falls of rain. The evil of wet,
     and damp, and closeness, is besetting him on every side; he
     clears away the woods, and he drains his land, and he, by doing
     so, mends both his climate and his own condition. Encouraged by
     his success, he perseveres in his system; clearing a country is
     with him synonymous with making it fertile and habitable; and
     he levels, or rather sets fire to, his forests without mercy.
     Meanwhile, the tide is turned without his observing it; he has
     already cleared enough, and every additional clearance is a
     mischief; damp and wet are no longer the evil most to be
     dreaded, but excessive drought. The rains do not fall in
     sufficient quantity; the springs become low, the rivers become
     less and less fitted for navigation. Yet habit blinds him for a
     long while to the real state of the case; and he continues to
     encourage a coming mischief in his dread of one that is become
     obsolete. We have been long making progress on our present
     tack; yet if we do not go about now, we shall run ashore.
     Consider the popular feeling at this moment against capital
     punishment; what is it but continuing to burn the woods, when
     the country actually wants shade and moisture? Year after year,
     men talked of the severity of the penal code, and struggled
     against it in vain. The feeling became stronger and stronger,
     and at last effected all, and more than all, which it had at
     first vainly demanded; yet still, from mere habit, it pursues
     its course, no longer to the restraining of legal cruelty, but
     to the injury of innocence and the encouragement of crime, and
     encouraging that worse evil--a sympathy with wickedness justly
     punished rather than with the law, whether of God or man,
     unjustly violated. So men have continued to cry out against the
     power of the Crown after the Crown had been shackled hand and
     foot; and to express the greatest dread of popular violence
     long after that violence was exhausted, and the anti-popular
     party was not only rallied, but had turned the tide of battle,
     and was victoriously pressing upon its enemy."

The view which Dr Arnold gives of the parties in England during the sixteenth century--that
great epoch of English genius--is remarkable for its candour and moderation. He considers the
distinctions which then prevailed in England as political rather than religious, "inasmuch
as they disputed about points of church government, without any reference to a supposed priesthood;
and because even those who maintained that one or another form was to be preferred, because
it was of divine appointment, were influenced in their interpretation of the doubtful language
of the Scriptures by their own strong persuasion of what that language could not but mean to say."

And he then concludes by the unanswerable remark, that in England, according to the theory
of the constitution during the sixteenth century, church and state were one. The proofs of
this proposition are innumerable--not merely the act by which the supremacy was conferred on
Henry VIII.--not merely the powers, almost unlimited, in matters ecclesiastical, delegated
to the king's vicegerent, that vicegerent being a layman--not merely the communion established
by the sole authority of Edward VI.--without the least participation in it by any bishop or
clergyman; but the still more conclusive argument furnished by the fact, that no point in the
doctrine, discipline, or ritual of our church, was established except by the power of Parliament,
and the power of Parliament alone--nay, more, that they were established in direct defiance
of the implacable opposition of the bishops, by whom, being then Roman Catholics, the English
Church, on the accession of Elizabeth, was represented--to which the omission of the names
of the Lords Spiritual in the Act of Uniformity, which is said to be enacted by the "Queen's
Highness," with the assent of the Lords and Commons in Parliament assembled, is a testimony,
at once unanswerable and unprecedented. We have dwelt with the more anxiety on this part of
Dr Arnold's work, as it furnishes a complete answer to the absurd opinions concerning the English
Church, which it has been of late the object of a few bigots, unconsciously acting as the tools
of artful and ambitious men, to propagate, and which would lead, by a direct and logical process,
to the complete overthrow of Protestant faith and worship. Such, then, being the state of things
"recognized on all hands, church government was no light matter, but one which essentially
involved in it the government of the state; and the disputing the Queen's supremacy, was equivalent
to depriving her of one of the most important portions of her sovereignty, and committing half
of the government of the nation to other hands."

At the accession of Henry VIII., the most profound tranquillity prevailed over England. The
last embers of those factions by which, during his father's reign, the peace of the nation
had been disturbed rather than endangered, were quenched by the vigilance and severity of that
able monarch; during the wars of the Roses, the noblest blood in England had been poured out
on the field or on the scaffold, and the wealth of the most opulent proprietors had been drained
by confiscation. The parties of York and Lancaster were no more--the Episcopal and Puritan
factions were not yet in being--every day diminished the influence of the nobles--the strength
of the Commons was in its infancy--the Crown alone remained, strong in its own prerogative,
stronger still in the want of all competitors. Crime after crime was committed by the savage
tyrant who inherited it; he was ostentatious--the treasures of the nation were lavished at
his feet; he was vindictive--the blood of the wise, the noble, and the beautiful, was shed,
like water, to gratify his resentment; he was rapacious--the accumulations of ancient piety
were surrendered to glut his avarice; he was arbitrary--and his proclamations were made equivalent
to acts of Parliament; he was fickle--and the religion of the nation was changed to gratify
his lust. To all this the English people submitted, as to some divine infliction, in silence
and consternation--the purses, lives, liberties, and consciences of his people were, for a
time, at his disposal. During the times of his son and his eldest daughter, the general aspect
of affairs was the same. But, though the hurricane of royal caprice and bigotry swept over
the land, seemingly without resistance, the sublime truths which were the daily subject of
controversy, and the solid studies with which the age was conversant, penetrated into every
corner of the land, and were incorporated with the very being of the nation. Then, as the mist
of doubt and persecution which had covered Mary's throne cleared away, the intellect of England,
in all its health, and vigour, and symmetry, stood revealed in the men and women of the Elizabethan
age:--

     "To say," observes Dr Arnold, "that the Puritans were wanting
     in humility because they did not acquiesce in the state of
     things which they found around them, is a mere extravagance,
     arising out of a total misapprehension of the nature of
     humility, and of the merits of the feeling of veneration. All
     earnestness and depth of character is incompatible with such a
     notion of humility. A man deeply penetrated with some great
     truth, and compelled, as it were, to obey it, cannot listen to
     every one who may be indifferent to it, or opposed to it. There
     is a voice to which he already owes obedience, which he serves
     with the humblest devotion, which he worships with the most
     intense veneration. It is not that such feelings are dead in
     him, but that he has bestowed them on one object, and they are
     claimed for another. To which they are most due is a question
     of justice; he may be wrong in his decision, and his worship
     may be idolatrous; but so also may be the worship which his
     opponents call upon him to render. If, indeed, it can be shown
     that a man admires and reverences nothing, he may be justly
     taxed with want of humility; but this is at variance with the
     very notion of an earnest character; for its earnestness
     consists in its devotion to some one object, as opposed to a
     proud or contemptuous indifference. But if it be meant that
     reverence in itself is good, so that the more objects of
     veneration we have the better is our character, this is to
     confound the essential difference between veneration and love.
     The excellence of love is its universality; we are told that
     even the highest object of all cannot be loved if inferior
     objects are hated."

Opinions, in the meanwhile, not very favourable to established authority in the state, and
marked by a rooted antipathy to ecclesiastical pretensions, were rapidly gaining proselytes
in the nation, and even at the court. But the prudence and spirit of Elizabeth, and, still
more, the great veneration and esteem for that magnanimous princess, which were for many years
the ruling principle--we might almost say, the darling passion--of Englishmen, enabled her
to keep at bay the dangerous animosities which her miserable successor had neither dexterity
to conciliate nor vigour to subdue. In his time the cravings, moral and intellectual, of the
English nation discovered themselves in forms not to be mistaken--some more, some less formidable
to established government; but all announcing that the time was come when concession to them
was inevitable. No matter whether it was the Puritan who complained of the rags of popery,
or the judge who questioned the prerogative of the sovereign, or the patriot who bewailed the
profligate expenditure of James's polluted court, or the pamphleteer whom one of our dramatists
has described so admirably, or the hoarse murmur of the crowd execrating the pusillanimous
murder of Raleigh--whosesoever the voice might be, whatever shape it might assume, petition,
controversy, remonstrance, address, impeachment, libel, menace, insurrection, the language
it spoke was uniform and unequivocal; it demanded for the people a share in the administration
of their government, civil and ecclesiastical--it expressed their determination to make the
House of Commons a reality.

The observations that follow are fraught with the most profound wisdom, and afford an admirable
exemplification of the manner in which history should be read by those who wish to find in
it something more than a mere register of facts and anecdotes:--

     "Under these circumstances there were now working together in
     the same party many principles which, as we have seen, are
     sometimes perfectly distinct. For instance the popular
     principle, that the influence of many should not be overborne
     by that of one, was working side by side with the principle of
     movement, or the desire of carrying on the work of the
     Reformation to the furthest possible point, and not only the
     desire of completing the Reformation, but that of shaking off
     the manifold evils of the existing state of things, both
     political and moral. Yet it is remarkable that the spirit of
     intellectual movement stood as it were hesitating which party
     it ought to join: and as the contest went on, it seemed rather
     to incline to that party which was most opposed to the
     political movement. This is a point in the state of English
     party in the seventeenth century which is well worth noticing,
     and we must endeavour to comprehend it.

     "We might think, a priori, that the spirit of political, and
     that of intellectual, and that of religious movement, would go
     on together, each favouring and encouraging the other. But the
     Spirit of intellectual movement differs from the other two in
     this, that it is comparatively one with which the mass of
     mankind have little sympathy. Political benefits all men can
     appreciate; and all good men, and a great many more than we
     might well dare to call good, can appreciate also the value,
     not of all, but of some religious truth which to them may seem
     all: the way to obtain God's favour and to worship Him aright,
     is a thing which great bodies of men can value, and be moved to
     the most determined efforts if they fancy that they are
     hindered from attaining to it. But intellectual movement in
     itself is a thing which few care for. Political truth may be
     dear to them, so far as it effects their common well-being; and
     religious truth so far as they may think it their duty to learn
     it; but truth abstractedly, and because it is truth, which is
     the object, I suppose, of the pure intellect, is to the mass of
     mankind a thing indifferent. Thus the workings of the intellect
     come even to be regarded with suspicion as unsettling: we have
     got, we say, what we want, and we are well contented with it;
     why should we be kept in perpetual restlessness, because you
     are searching after some new truths which, when found, will
     compel us to derange the state of our minds in order to make
     room for them. Thus the democracy of Athens was afraid of and
     hated Socrates; and the poet who satirized Cleon, knew that
     Cleon's partizans, no less than his own aristocratical friends,
     would sympathize with his satire when directed against the
     philosophers. But if this hold in political matters, much more
     does it hold religiously. The two great parties of the
     Christian world have each their own standard of truth, by which
     they try all things: Scripture on the one hand, the voice of
     the church on the other. To both, therefore, the pure
     intellectual movement is not only unwelcome, but they dislike
     it. It will question what they will not allow to be questioned;
     it may arrive at conclusions which they would regard as
     impious. And, therefore, in an age of religious movement
     particularly, the spirit of intellectual movement soon finds
     itself proscribed rather than countenanced."

In the extract which follows, the pure and tender morality of the sentiment vies with the atmosphere
of fine writing that invests it. The passage is one which Plato might have envied, and which
we should imagine the most hardened and successful of our modern apostates cannot read without
some feeling like contrition and remorse. Fortunate indeed were the youth trained to virtue
by such a monitor, and still more fortunate the country where such a duty was confided to such
a man:--

     "I have tried to analyze the popular party: I must now
     endeavour to do the same with the party opposed to it. Of
     course an anti-popular party varies exceedingly at different
     times; when it is in the ascendant, its vilest elements are
     sure to be uppermost: fair and moderate,--just men, wise men,
     noble-minded men,--then refuse to take part with it. But when
     it is humbled, and the opposite side begins to imitate its
     practices, then again many of the best and noblest spirits
     return to it, and share its defeat though they abhorred its
     victory. We must distinguish, therefore, very widely, between
     the anti-popular party in 1640, before the Long Parliament met,
     and the same party a few years, or even a few months,
     afterwards. Now, taking the best specimens of this party in its
     best state, we can scarcely admire them too highly. A man who
     leaves the popular cause when it is triumphant, and joins the
     party opposed to it, without really changing his principles and
     becoming a renegade, is one of the noblest characters in
     history. He may not have the clearest judgment, or the firmest
     wisdom; he may have been mistaken, but, as far as he is
     concerned personally, we cannot but admire him. But such a man
     changes his party not to conquer but to die. He does not allow
     the caresses of his new friends to make him forget that he is a
     sojourner with them, and not a citizen: his old friends may
     have used him ill, they may be dealing unjustly and cruelly:
     still their faults, though they may have driven him into exile,
     cannot banish from his mind the consciousness that with them is
     his true home: that their cause is habitually just and
     habitually the weaker, although now bewildered and led astray
     by an unwonted gleam of success. He protests so strongly
     against their evil that he chooses to die by their hands rather
     than in their company; but die he must, for there is no place
     left on earth where his sympathies can breathe freely; he is
     obliged to leave the country of his affections, and life
     elsewhere is intolerable. This man is no renegade, no apostate,
     but the purest of martyrs: for what testimony to truth can be
     so pure as that which is given uncheered by any sympathy; given
     not against friends, amidst unpitying or half-rejoicing
     enemies. And such a martyr was Falkland!

     "Others who fall off from a popular party in its triumph, are
     of a different character; ambitious men, who think that they
     become necessary to their opponents and who crave the glory of
     being able to undo their own work as easily as they had done
     it: passionate men, who, quarrelling with their old associates
     on some personal question, join the adversary in search of
     revenge; vain men, who think their place unequal to their
     merits, and hope to gain a higher on the opposite side: timid
     men, who are frightened as it were at the noise of their own
     guns, and the stir of actual battle--who had liked to dally
     with popular principles in the parade service of debating or
     writing in quiet times, but who shrink alarmed when both sides
     are become thoroughly in earnest: and again, quiet and honest
     men, who never having fully comprehended the general principles
     at issue, and judging only by what they see before them, are
     shocked at the violence of their party, and think that the
     opposite party is now become innocent and just, because it is
     now suffering wrong rather than doing it. Lastly, men who
     rightly understand that good government is the result of
     popular and anti-popular principles blended together, rather
     than of the mere ascendancy of either; whose aim, therefore, is
     to prevent either from going too far, and to throw their weight
     into the lighter scale: wise men and most useful, up to the
     moment when the two parties are engaged in actual civil war,
     and the question is--which shall conquer? For no man can
     pretend to limit the success of a party, when the sword is the
     arbitrator: he who wins in that game does not win by halves:
     and therefore the only question then is, which party is on the
     whole the best, or rather perhaps the least evil; for as one
     must crush the other, it is at least desirable that the party
     so crushed should be the worse."

Dr Arnold--rightly, we hope--assumes, that in lectures addressed to Englishmen and Protestants,
it is unnecessary to vindicate the principles of the Revolution; it would, indeed, be an affront
to any class of educated Protestant freemen, to argue that our present constitution was better
than a feudal monarchy, or the religion of Tillotson superior to that of Laud--in his own words,
"whether the doctrine and discipline of our Protestant Church of England, be not better and
truer than that of Rome." He therefore supposes the Revolution complete, the Bill of Rights
and the Toleration Act already passed, the authority of King William recognized in England
and in Scotland, while in Ireland the party of King James was still predominant. He then bids
us consider the character and object of the parties by which Great Britain was then divided;
on the side of the Revolution were enlisted the great families of our aristocracy, and the
bulk of the middle classes. The faction of James included the great mass of country gentlemen,
the lower orders, and, (after the first dread of a Roman Catholic hierarchy had passed away,)
except in a very few instances, the parochial and teaching clergy; civil and religious liberty
was the motto of one party--hereditary right and passive obedience, of the other. As the Revolution
had been bloodless, it might have been supposed that its reward would have been secure, and
that our great deliverer would have been allowed to pursue his schemes for the liberty of Europe,
if not without opposition, at least without hostility. But the old Royalist party had been
surprised and confounded, not broken or altogether overcome. They rallied--some from pure,
others from selfish and sordid motives--under the banner to which they had been so long accustomed;
and, though ultimately baffled, they were able to place in jeopardy, and in some measure to
fling away the advantages which the blood and treasure of England had been prodigally lavished
to obtain.

