Sir,--The following is an extract from a Catalogue of Books for sale, issued by Mr. Asher,
of Berlin, in 1844:--

    "Bodenham? (Ling?), Politeuphuia. Wits commonwealth, original
    wrapper, vellum. VERY RARE.

    "80 fr. 8vo. London, for Nicholas Ling, 1597.

    "This book, 'being a methodical collection of the most choice
    and select admonitions and sentences, compendiously drawn from
    infinite varietie,' is quoted by Lowndes under Bodenham, as first
    printed in 1598; the Epistle dedicatory however of the present
    copy is signed: 'N. Ling', and addressed 'to his very good friend
    Maister I.B.,' so that Ling appears to have been the author, and
    this an edition unknown to Lowndes or any other bibliographer."

This seems to settle one point, perhaps a not very important one, in our literary history;
and as such may deserve a place among your "NOTES."

BOOKWORM.

       *       *       *       *       *

COLLEY CIBBER'S APOLOGY.

Mr. Editor,--No doubt most of your readers are well acquainted with Colley Cibber's Apology
for his Life, &c., first printed, I believe, in 1740, 4to, with a portrait of himself, painted
by Vanloo, and engraved by Vandergucht. Chapters IV. and V. contain the celebrated characters
he drew of the principal performers, male and female, in, and just before, his time, viz. Betterton,
Montfort, Kynaston, &c. Upon these characters I have two questions to put, which I hope some
of your contributors may be able to answer. The first is, "Were these characters of actors
reprinted in the same words, and without additions, in the subsequent impressions of Cibber's
Apology in 8vo?" Secondly, "Had they ever appeared in any shape before they were inserted in
the copy of Cibber's Apology now before me, in 1740, 4to?" To this may be added, if convenient,
some account of the work in which these fine criticisms originally appeared, supposing they
did not first come out in the Apology. I am especially interested in the history of the Stage
about the period when the publication of these characters formed an epoch.

I am, Mr. Editor, yours,

DRAMATICUS.

       *       *       *       *       *

A MAIDEN ASSIZE--WHITE GLOVES.

Mr. Editor.--I forward for insertion in your new publication the following "Note," taken from
the Times of the 20th of August, 1847:--

"A Fortunate County.--In consequence of there being no prisoners, nor business of any kind
to transact at the last assizes for the county of Radnor, the high sheriff, Mr. Henry Miles,
had to present the judge, Mr. Justice Cresswell, with a pair of white kid gloves, embroidered
in gold, and which have been forwarded to his lordship; a similar event has not taken place
for a considerable number of years in that county. His lordship remarked that it was the first
time it had occurred to him since he had been on the Bench."

And I beg to append it as a "Query," which I shall gladly see answered by any of your correspondents,
or my professional brethren,--"What is the origin of this singular custom, and what is the
earliest instance of it on record?"

A LIMB OF THE LAW.

       *       *       *       *       *

MYTHOS is thanked for his kind hints, which shall not be lost sight of. We have abundance of
NOTES on the subject, not only of the SEVEN WISE MASTERS, but of that other treasury of ancient
fictions, the GESTA ROMANORUM, which we shall bring forward as opportunity offers.

S.Y. The edition of Chaucer, in five volumes 12mo, edited by Singer, in 1822, was the only
modern library edition of the "Works" until the appearance of Sir H. Nicolas's edition in the
Aldine Poets. Bell's edition, in 14 volumes, and Dolby's in 2, though they may have done much
to extend a knowledge of the writings of the Father of English Poetry, can scarcely be called
library editions.

