But the period was not without its traits of patriotism. In October strong efforts were made
in the States of Alabama and Georgia to unite the three parties in the South on one of the
three candidates; thus securing a President to the South, and the certainty of the Union. The
Breckinridge Democrats, however, contemptuously refused to be party to every arrangement of
the kind. The insurrectionary element, gathering to itself the excitable and disaffected spirits
of every class, had now gained the command of this party, and no longer attempted to conceal
its revolutionary intentions. At the head of this element, exercising a vast influence over
all its movements, and embodying in himself, more than any other man (except, perhaps, Mr.
Yancey), the fierceness of its spirit, stood Mr. Toombs, of Georgia. He was now invited to
speak in Montgomery. As a man of large political experience, some statesmanship, and master
of a grave and sonorous eloquence, it was expected that he would influence a class of men who
had hitherto held themselves studiously aloof from the insurrectionary ranks--that calm, conservative
class, which is recognized by all as the basis of every society which has acquired, or having
acquired, hopes to retain, stability of government and security of morals. The sentiments of
the speaker were too well known to admit of any doubts as to the probable character of his
address. He appeared as the undisguised advocate of secession. No form of appeal or argument
was neglected which could have had weight with a people peculiarly susceptible to the influence
of oratory. Setting aside the question of the approaching election, to which he scarcely alluded,
the orator strove only to show that it was an imperative social necessity that the South should
have a vast and constantly increasing slave territory; that in the path of this necessity the
only obstacle was the Federal Union, and that the time for its destruction had now come. These
were the representative arguments of his party before the election, and he did not speak to
an unsympathizing audience. For when toward the close, raising his voice until it broke almost
in a scream, he exclaimed, 'Let the night which decides the election of Mr. Lincoln be ushered
in by the booming of the hostile cannon of the South,' the hall rang again and again with the
shouts of his excited hearers. But nemo repente turpissimus semper fuit. These were not the
sentiments of all. There was a large class present who did not applaud--but neither did they
hiss. They seemed for the time overawed by the energy of the spirit which had suddenly sprung
up among them.

In the following week, however, a singular, though, unfortunately, but momentary check was
given to the progress of insurrectionary sentiments in the vicinity of the city. Senator DOUGLAS,
who had been slowly advancing, in his oratorical tour, down the coast, was about this time
announced to speak in Montgomery. Since his speech in Norfolk, where he was thought to have
expressed himself too clearly against secession, a strong prejudice had grown up in the South
against him, and it now threatened to manifest itself in acts of positive violence. Such was
the state of popular feeling, that for a time it seemed uncertain whether it would be desirable
for him to attempt to speak. Hints of peculiar personal outrages were thrown out by men of
a certain class; and threats were made of something still more ominous in case he should attempt
to repeat the sentiments of his Norfolk speech.

He arrived in the evening, and was met at the cars by a large crowd, and a procession formed
from a coalition, for the occasion, of his party with that of Mr. Bell. It was feared that
the short ride to the hotel would not be accomplished without some act of violence on the part
of the excited throng by which his carriage was surrounded. A few eggs were thrown, but otherwise
the ride was performed without interruption. From further outrages the crowd restrained itself
until something positive should appear on the part of the orator himself. Unintimidated, however,
by these unmistakable evidences of the public feeling, Mr. Douglas on the following morning
presented himself on the steps in front of the capitol, where it had been announced that his
speech would be delivered. The city was filled with strangers, who had come from all parts
of the country to be present at the State fair which was held there that week. On Capitol Hill,
therefore, an immense throng was early assembled, which coldly awaited the arrival of the orator.
Everything was chilly and unfavorable. But the spirit of the obstinate debater seemed to rise
with the difficulties by which he was surrounded. At first even his manner of speaking operated
to his disadvantage. The sharp, syllabic emphasis, which he was accustomed to adopt in addressing
large assemblages in the open air, grated harshly on ears accustomed to the smooth and carefully
modulated elocution of Mr. Yancey. Beginning, however, by enunciating general principles of
government, in which all could agree, he gradually conciliated, by an unexpected appearance
of moderation, the favorable attention of his audience. As he advanced upon his customary sketch
of the history of the different political parties during the past few years--a work which a
hundred repetitions enabled him to perform with a dramatic energy of style and expression singularly
effective--he was occasionally interrupted by exclamations of acquiescence. As he described
the various successes of the Democratic party, these became frequent, and before he had finished
the resumé, his voice was drowned amid the enthusiastic cheers of the crowd.

It was a triumph of oratory. He repeated every sentiment of his Norfolk speech, and the men
who in the morning had thrown out dark hints of 'stoning,' joined in the applause. He accepted
as a certainty the election of Mr. Lincoln, but caused the crowd to shout with exultation at
the prospect of tying all his activity by the constitutional check of a Democratic majority
in Congress. In short, he came amid general execration, and departed amid universal regret.
I had heard Mr. Douglas before, but never when he gave any evidence of the wonderful power
which he exhibited on this occasion. With few tricks of rhetoric, with no extraordinary bursts
of eloquence, he accomplished all the results of the most impassioned oratory. The qualities
of a great debater--unshaken presence of mind, tact in adapting himself to his audience, the
power of arranging facts in a form at once simple and coherent, and yet most favorable to his
own cause, the strange influence by which one mind compels from others the recognition of its
supremacy--have long been conceded to the late Senator from Illinois, but never did he exhibit
these qualities with greater effect than before the excited populace of Montgomery.

This was the last strictly Union speech which was delivered in that city. No one after this
was found bold enough to stand up in the defence of the cause that from this day began slowly
to succumb to the fierce spirit to which it was opposed. For several days the effects of the
speech were visible in the moderate tone of 'popular feeling;' but they were soon lost in the
tumultuous excitement attending the return of Mr. Yancey from his tour in the North, and the
still more intense feeling produced by the election which immediately followed.

It was impossible in these last hours of distinct political organizations not to be struck
with the differences that characterized the opposing parties--differences which, both before
and since, have had much to do with the progress of the rebellion. The Union gatherings were
easy, jovial, fond of speeches adorned with the quips and turns of political oratory, and filled
with the spirit 't'will all come right in the end.' In the Breckinridge--or, as they had now
practically become--the secession meetings, a different spirit prevailed. It was the spirit
of insurrection, fierce, stormy, unrestrained. It was the spirit of hatred; hatred of the North,
hatred of the Union, hatred of Mr. Bell, whose success would deprive them of their only weapon
for the destruction of that Union.

But with the 4th of November came a change. Three days after election there remained in Montgomery
no trace of party organizations. All the widely divergent streams of public opinion seemed
suddenly to have joined in one, and that running fiercely, and unrestrained toward disunion.
The election of Mr. Lincoln united the people. On all sides prevailed the deepest enthusiasm
in favor of secession. Mass meetings, attended by all parties, were held, and passed resolutions
advocating in the strongest terms immediate disunion. Secessionists were astonished at the
change, and in their anxiety to avoid anything which might shock the newly awakened sentiment,
appeared in many cases the most conservative members of the community. But indeed nothing was
too violent for the state of public feeling. War committees were appointed, and active measures
taken to put the State in a position to maintain her independence as soon as the ordinance
of secession should have received the sanction of the convention. Troops were despatched to
take possession of the arsenal, and agents were sent North to purchase additions to the already
large supply of arms in the State. Immediate secession seemed to be the desire of every class.
But this condition of things was not always to continue. The reaction which had carried the
Unionists from a state of perfect confidence in the success of their candidate, to one of deep
disappointment, and of rage at the section to which they attributed their defeat, having at
length spent itself, signs of a returning movement began to make their appearance. At first
these were not strongly marked. All were yet in favor of secession, but a large party, composed
of most of the former partisans of Mr. Bell, together with the conservative element of every
class, began at length to object to a too great precipitancy, and finally to demand that the
action of Alabama should be made to depend upon the decision of the other Southern States.
This movement was understood by the secessionists to have for its ultimate object the defeat
of their hopes of disunion; and such, unquestionably, was its aim; for whatever may have been
the plans of some of the leaders of the Coöperationists, as this party was called, it is certain
that the great body of the party had no other end in view, and was sustained in its action
by no other hope than the perpetuation of the Union.

At the caucus meetings which preceded the election of delegates to the State convention the
two parties, as now formed, first came into conflict. At once important differences became
apparent. Although nearly equal in numbers, in spirit the two parties were signally unequal.
While the secessionists were bold, vigilant, and uncompromising, the Coöperationists were timid
and passionless, though full of a passive confidence that the Union would in some way be preserved.
A knowledge of this difference explains many things, in themselves apparently inexplicable.
It shows how it was possible that a State so confessedly loyal that it would have rejected
the ordinance of secession if it had been submitted directly to the people, could yet, on this
very issue, elect a convention with a majority in favor of disunion. The whole question was
decided in the caucus meetings. The secessionists of all parts of the State were bound together
by watchful associations, and were everywhere on the alert. In counties where by their number
they were entitled to no representative, attending the caucus meeting in force, they effected--as
they easily could while there was no distinct party organization--a union of the tickets, and
thus secured to themselves one of the two candidates. So frequently was this repeated in different
parts of the country, that it was afterward estimated that by this simple expedient of a union
ticket the whole question of the secession of this State was decided.

From these political struggles, however, the interest of the community was suddenly withdrawn
by an event which instantly absorbed all attention, and struck terror into every household.
In the little town of Pine Level, a village situated a few miles from Montgomery, traces were
discovered of a plot having for its object a general uprising of the negroes on the evening
preceding Christmas.

In the progress of the investigations which were immediately begun, it came to light that the
plot was not simply local, but extended over many counties, including in its circuit the city
of Montgomery, and involving in its movements many hundred negroes. Further examination revealed
all the horrible details which were to attend the consummation of the plot--the butchery of
the whites, the allotment of females, the division of property. The whole surrounding country
was alive with excitement. Active measures were taken to crush at once the spirit of insurrection.
The ringleaders and some of the poor whites, with whom the plot is said to have originated,
were seized and, after a brief trial, immediately hung. In Montgomery feeling was such as to
demand the adoption of the most stringent precautionary measures. Military companies were called
out and placed in nightly guard over the capitol and arsenal. On Christmas eve the plot was
to go into execution, and as the time approached, the anxiety became painfully intense. It
was whispered that one of Mr. Yancey's slaves had been detected in an attempt to poison her
master. The police was doubled, soldiers with loaded muskets were stationed in all the prominent
streets, while mounted guards ranged the thinly inhabited section of the outskirts. The night,
however, passed without alarm, and the excitement from that time slowly subsided.

It is scarcely worthy of notice, perhaps, that with the returning sense of security came also
the flippant confidence which had been for a time put to flight. The blacks were again a timid
and affectionate race, and it was soon not difficult to find multitudes who declared themselves
willing to meet alone a hundred insurrectionary slaves. Sitting in this evening calm, listening
to such remarks, it was difficult to accept as real the events of the hot and excited day which
had gone before. Surely they were dreams--the hurried trials, the hangings, the nightly tread
of soldiers, the brooding terror that whitened the lips of mothers. A home guard, however,
was immediately formed, including all citizens, irrespective of age or station, capable of
bearing arms, and not in other military organizations.

On the 7th of January, the convention met. South Carolina had already passed her ordinance
of secession; but what others would follow the example of this excitable State was yet uncertain.
All eyes were now anxiously directed toward Alabama, upon whose decision would to a great degree
depend that of the two great conservative States, Louisiana and Georgia. Nor was this anxiety
diminished by the accounts given of the composition of the convention of this State. Both sides
claimed a majority; and it was evident that, without some unexpected defection, the two parties
would narrowly escape a tie. This singular uncertainty was soon, however, to cease. Immediately
on convening, it became evident that the command of the body lay with the secessionists. It
was found by secret estimates that the two parties were divided by ten votes. Of the hundred
delegates, fifty-five were in favor of disunion. Although this majority gave the secessionists
power to carry their wishes into instant effect, it was not thought politic to do so while
the difference between the two parties remained so small. The passage of the ordinance was,
therefore, for several days delayed, while the Coöperationists were plied with arguments to
induce them to acquiesce in that which it was now impossible for them to prevent. At length,
after four days of deliberation, it became evident that all of this party had succumbed whom
it seemed possible to change, and on the morning of the 11th of January it was publicly announced
that the ordinance of secession had passed the convention by a vote of sixty-one in the affirmative
against thirty-nine in the negative.

By the insurrectionists the announcement was received with transports of joy, but by the Unionists
it was met with demonstrations of grief, which they made no efforts to conceal. Women wept,
and houses were closed as for a day of mourning. In the northern part of the State the manifestations
of disappointment were still more unmistakable. Indignation meetings were held, and one of
the delegates received a telegram from his constituents, charging him with having betrayed
them on the very issue for which he was elected, and demanding explanations. At length the
loyal feeling of the State seemed aroused, and had the ordinance of secession been now submitted
to the people, all admitted that it would have been rejected by an unquestionable majority.
But the ordinance was not submitted to the people, and the Union sentiment, which had already,
within the interval of a few weeks, passed through two complete oscillations--vibrating from
the loyalty which preceded the presidental election through all the changes of the strong disunion
reaction which followed--was now again in the ascendant. But from this point it soon began
to recede, descending slowly along an arc of which no eye can see the end, with a momentum
that permits no prediction as to the time of its return.

A multitude of influences began at once to weaken the energy of the Union sentiment. From the
first, it had been the policy of the disunion leaders to represent the question of secession
as lying wholly with the South. In case this section should decide upon disunion, there would
be little reason, it was said, to fear any prolonged opposition on the part of the North--least
of all a war. Nothing appeared on the part of the Federal Executive to refute these assertions.
It was by a large class believed, therefore, that the leaders were right when they said that
the secession would be a mere withdrawal of the Southern States, for the formation of a government
perfectly friendly to the North, with which, indeed, a board of commissioners would soon arrange
the terms of a peaceful international trade. After the passage of this ordinance, however,
a slight modification of this argument became necessary. Peace was conditioned upon unanimity.
Unionists were now called upon to render their support to the new government in order to secure
peace. If it was clear that the State was united in favor of the changed condition of things,
there would be no difficulty, it was said, to procure, amid the divisions of the North, a peaceful
recognition of the confederacy. The factions of the Northern States would never allow the Federal
Government to attempt to coerce a united people. Thus the very weapons which loyalty had used
to arm herself were here wrested to her own destruction. To insure peace, men became insurrectionists.

It is useless now to surmise what would have been the result if the action of the Federal Government
in reference to the question of secession at the beginning of the rebellion, had been less
ambiguous. It is enough to know, what was for many weeks so painfully realized by every Northerner
in the South, that had the Southern people, by any means, been brought to understand that Federal
laws were protected by sanctions, and that an attempt at disunion would certainly be followed
by war, the question of secession would never have become a formidable issue. But while men
believed, as many of the Unionists did, that secession was an experiment, attended with no
danger to themselves, and which would more than likely result, after a few years, in a peaceful
reconstruction of the Union on terms more favorable to the South, there is little occasion
for wonder that the cause of disunion met with no very earnest, or, at least, prolonged opposition.

The passage of the ordinance of secession gave to the disunionists an incalculable advantage.
It is true, the Union feeling was deep, and in many places strongly aroused, but the State
had seceded, the new government was quietly and apparently solidly forming itself, profitable
offices were in its gift, and, added to all, the conservative spirit whispered its old motto,
quieta non movere, and the hands which had been raised in weak resistance fell harmlessly back.

In the mean while, at the capitol, another work was going on. The convention, having established
by ordinance the independence of the State, was now engaged in tearing down and remodelling
to meet the petty wants of the Republic of Alabama the august structure of the Federal Constitution.
The work was soon completed, and on the 29th of January this body, which in a brief session
of three weeks had carried through measures involving some of the most stupendous changes possible
to a civil State, adjourned to meet again on the 4th of March, cutting off, by this, all possibility
of any of the questions which it had discussed being brought before the people by a new election.
On the week following the adjournment of the convention, the confederate congress assembled
in Montgomery.

This body immediately showed a fine appreciation of the state of public feeling, and drew to
itself the confidence of the people by selecting for president and vice-president of the temporary
government men who were thought to represent the more conservative element in community. Mr.
Davis, at the time of his election, was in Mississippi, but on receiving the official announcement
of the event, started at once for Montgomery, passing through Southern Tennessee, then a loyal
State, along a path nearly parallel to the one in which Mr. Lincoln was at the same time moving
a little farther north.

He reached the city in the night, but a large crowd was awaiting his arrival at the depot.
A procession of carriages, filled with members of the confederate congress, led the way to
the hotel. It was preceded by a military band, and at regular intervals rockets were discharged,
announcing to the distant beholder the progress of the procession. All felt that by attention
to these honorary details they were assisting to give dignity to the newly formed confederacy.
On arriving at the hotel, Mr. Davis was announced to speak from the balcony. The crowd pressed
curiously forward. Two candles threw a faint, yellow light over a spare, angular form, rather
below the medium height, lighting up, at the same time, the sunken cheeks and strongly marked
jaws of a face now working with the emotions which the unusual events of the evening were so
well calculated to excite.

