This unfortunate affair was the beginning of a deadly war between the English and the Indians,
which brought untold suffering upon the people of Maryland and Virginia. The Susquehannocks,
enraged at the slaughter of their warriors, became the most implacable enemies of the white
men. Joining with the other tribes in a league against the English, they began a series of
outrages and murders which continued many months, and cost the lives of hundreds of men, women
and children. During the year 1676 alone, more people were butchered in Virginia by the savages
than fell in the massacre of 1644.[479] This fearful mortality was due to the fact that the
Indians were now supplied with firearms. Governor Berkeley and his friends, in their greed
to secure the valuable beaver and otter skins, had not hesitated to purchase them with powder,
shot and guns.[480] The savages had now almost entirely discarded the bow and arrow, and were
so skilful with their new weapons that the English often hired them "to kill Deare".[481] So
that when the war cry was once more heard upon the frontier, the savages, although less numerous
than in the days of Powhatan or Opechancanough, were far more to be feared.

It was Maryland that first felt the resentment of the savages.

The people of this province had taken no part in the attack of Mason and Brent, but the Susquehannocks
were not in the humor to make nice distinctions. In seeking revenge for the murder of their
braves they held all whites equally guilty, and fell immediately upon the nearest plantations.
Thus were the Marylanders made to suffer for the rashness of the Virginia frontiersmen.

Feeling that it was his duty to aid the neighboring province in this war brought on by the
hasty action of two of his own officers, and fearing that depredations upon the Virginia frontiers
could not long be prevented, Sir William Berkeley decided to join Governor Calvert in a vigorous
attack upon the savages. Colonel John Washington, great-grandfather of George Washington, at
the head of several hundred men, was despatched across the Potomac to effect a junction with
the Maryland troops.[482] The combined forces of the two colonies are said to have numbered
"neer a thousand men".[483]

Unable to withstand this army in the open field, the Indians fell back upon a fort which they
had erected upon the north bank of the Potomac, and here awaited the approach of the English.
Their fortress had been constructed with such care and skill that the white men were unable
to carry it by storm. The outer works consisted of lines of tree trunks, from five to eight
inches in diameter, "watled 6 inches apart to shoot through", their tops firmly twisted together.
Behind this was a ditch, and within all a square citadel, with high walls and "fflankers having
many loop-holes". The fire of the red-skins from behind these works proved so deadly that hopes
of a successful assault had to be abandoned. Nor could breaches be effected, for the allies
were not provided with heavy guns. The moist and swampy ground surrounding the fort made it
impossible to approach by means of trenches.[484]

So the English cast their camp before the fort hoping to starve out the enemy. Lines were drawn
about the place, as closely as the nature of the ground would permit, while boats patrolled
the river to cut off escape to the Virginia shore. Fearing, no doubt, that lack of provisions
would soon make it necessary for them to come to terms with the besiegers, the Indians sent
out several of their leaders to treat for peace. But so deep was the animosity aroused by the
recent murders, that the white men violated the flag of truce by detaining these envoys, and
finally beating out their brains.[485] This flagrant act aroused the Indians to a desperate
defense. In numerous sallies they inflicted severe loss upon the besiegers, and captured enough
horses to supply themselves with food. At last, after six or seven weeks of fighting, they
resolved to effect their escape. On a dark night, when the English were least expecting it,
they sallied forth, bringing with them their women and children. Awakening the white men with
their savage yells, they burst in among them, killing and wounding many, and before resistance
could be made, were through the lines and gone.[486]

And now the Virginians were made to pay dearly for their part in this ill-managed affair. Early
in January, 1676, the Susquehannocks crossed the Potomac and came plundering and murdering
through the frontier counties.[487] Separating into small bands, the Indians fell upon the
more isolated plantations, and in a few days had killed no less than thirty-six persons. Those
whose wretched fate it was to be captured, were put to death with all the tortures that devilish
ingenuity could devise. Some were roasted, others flayed alive. The sufferings of the victims
were long and protracted, while the savages knocked out their teeth or tore off their nails
or stuck feathers and lighted wood into their flesh.[488]

In terror the people of the frontier began to desert their homes, seeking shelter in the more
populous settlements.[489] In a few weeks one parish, upon the upper waters of the Rappahannock,
was reduced from seventy-one plantations to eleven.[490] Those that remained were concentrated
upon the largest farms, which they fortified with palisades and redoubts.[491]

When the news of these atrocities reached Sir William Berkeley, hasty preparations were made
for an expedition against the invaders. Sir Henry Chicheley was put at the head of forces of
horse and foot, with orders to give immediate pursuit to the savages. But just as all was in
readiness and the command to march hourly expected, the Governor decided that the expedition
should be abandoned. Chicheley's commission was annulled, his forces disbanded and the soldiers
sent to their homes.[492]

What induced Berkeley to take this strange step none could tell. The murders of the savages
were continuing. The frontier was defenseless. Messages were coming from the exposed plantations
imploring aid. Why should he desert the people and expose them to the fury of the Indians?
It is possible that he detected symptoms of mutiny among the troops and thought it better to
abandon the expedition than to run the risk of a rebellion. He was well aware of the discontent
of the people, and his letters to England show that he dreaded an insurrection.[493] The unhappy
planters ascribed the Governor's strange conduct to avarice. He and his friends had a monopoly
of the Indian trade, and it was hinted that he preferred to allow the atrocities to continue
rather than destroy his source of revenue. He was determined, was the cry, "that no bullits
would pierce beaver skins".[494] More probable seems the explanation that Berkeley hoped to
prevent further depredations by the help of the Pamunkeys and other friendly tribes, and feared
that an invasion of the Indian lands might defeat this purpose.[495]

But an Assembly was summoned in March and instructed by the Governor to take immediate measures
to secure the frontier.[496] Acting, no doubt, under Berkeley's influence, the Assembly resolved
not to carry the conflict into the enemy's territory, but to wage a defensive war. Forts were
to be erected upon the upper waters of the great rivers, and manned with regular troops as
a protection to the outer plantations. To defray the cost, new and heavy taxes were put upon
the people.[497]

This last act of the Long Assembly caused bitter dissatisfaction. The border counties had hoped
that provision would be made for an expedition against the Indians. No headway could be made
unless the whites took the offensive and hunted down the savages in their own villages. The
erection of forts was useless.[498] The Indians would experience no difficulty in avoiding
them in their murderous raids. They could approach the remote plantations, or even those far
within the frontiers, without fear of detection by the soldiers, for the numerous swamps and
dense woods afforded them ample covert. It was not intended that the forts should be used as
bases for expeditions into the enemy's country; nor could the soldiers leave them to pursue
and punish the plundering savages. What then, it was asked, could be the value of fortresses,
if they were to defend only the ground upon which they stood?[499]

The event proved the people right. The forts, when built, were but slight obstacles to the
invasions of the Indians. The murders became more frequent than before. The impotency of the
defenses of the colony seems to have inspired them to more terrible and vigorous attacks. The
cry against the forts became more bitter. "It was a design," the people thought, "of the grandees
to engross all their tobacco into their own hands".[500] As the cries of their women and children
grew more piteous and distressing, the men of the frontier spoke openly of disobedience. Rather
than pay the taxes for the accursed forts they would plant no more tobacco. If the Governor
would not send an expedition against the Indians, they themselves would march out to avenge
their wrongs. The forts must be dismantled, the garrisons dismissed.[501]

From all parts of the colony came the insistent demand that the Assembly, which had so long
been but a mockery of representative government, should be dissolved and the people given a
free election.[502] But Berkeley was not the man to yield readily to this clamor. Never, in
all the long years that he had ruled over Virginia, had he allowed the rabble to dictate his
policies. He would not do so now. When petitions came from the frontiersmen, asking leave to
go out against the Indians, he returned a brusk and angry refusal.[503] A delegation from Charles
City county met with a typical reception from the irritable old man. As they stood humbly before
him, presenting their request for a commission, they spoke of themselves as the Governor's
subjects. Upon this Berkeley blurted out that they were all "fools and loggerheads". They were
subjects of the King, and so was he. He would grant them no commission, and bade them be gone,
and a pox take them.[504] Later he issued a proclamation forbidding under heavy penalties all
such petitions.[505]

Unfortunately, at this juncture came news that large bodies of Indians were descending upon
the upper waters of the James, and that another bloody assault might soon be expected.[506]
In terror and anger the people of Charles City county seized their arms, determined to repel
this threatened storm, with or without the Governor's permission. Parties went about from place
to place beating up volunteers with the drum. The magistrates were either in sympathy with
the movement, or were unable to prevent it.[507] Soon a considerable body of rough, determined
men were assembled, awaiting only a leader to march out against the enemy.

This leader they found in one of the most interesting and picturesque characters in Virginia
history. Nathaniel Bacon is depicted as twenty-nine years of age, black-haired, of medium height
and slender, melancholy, pensive, and taciturn. In conversation he was logical and convincing;
in oratory magnetic and masterful.[508] His successful expeditions against the Indians and
the swift blows he directed against the loyal forces mark him as a military commander of no
mean ability.[509]

Bacon was almost a stranger in Virginia, for he had left England less than two years before.[510]
He was fortunate, however, in having a cousin, also named Nathaniel Bacon, high in the favor
of Sir William Berkeley.[511] It was doubtless through the influence of this relative that
the young man attained a position of great influence, and was appointed to the Council itself.[512]
But submission to the will of the imperious Governor was the price paid by all that wished
to remain long in favor in Virginia. Bacon did not approve of Berkeley's arbitrary government;
he disliked the long continuation of the Assembly, the unjust discriminations, the unusual
taxes, the incapacity of officials; and it was not in his fiery temper to conceal his opinions.
Soon, it would seem, the frowns of the Governor began to fall upon him, and he grew weary of
coming to Council.[513]

Bacon had made his home in Henrico, at that time one of the extreme frontier counties. His
marked ability, his liberal education, his place in the Council soon gave him a position of
great influence among his rough but hardy neighbors. None could be better suited to assume
command over the desperate volunteers that had gathered in Charles City county.

But it was a very serious step to accept the leadership of this band which had taken arms in
defiance of the Governor's commands. It would expose him to the charge not only of disobedience,
but of open rebellion. Bacon, however, like all that dwelt upon the frontiers, was angered
at the inadequate protection given by the government. When news came to him that depredations
had been committed upon one of his own plantations, and that his overseer had been killed,
he was eager to take revenge.[514]

Now some of Bacon's friends, as anxious as he for an Indian expedition, and thinking him most
proper to conduct it, suggested his name to the volunteers. The men were quite willing to accept
so influential a commander, but it was not so easy to persuade Bacon to take the dangerous
place. He consented, however, to row across the river, and visit the soldiers in their camp.
Here the men gathered around him, and with joyous shouts of, "A Bacon! A Bacon!" proclaimed
him their leader. His friends pressed him to accept. They would, they said, accompany him on
his expedition. If the Governor ordered them to disband, they would defy him. "They drank damnation
to their souls", if they should prove untrue to him. Touched by these proofs of confidence,
and fired perhaps with ambition, the young man yielded, and Bacon's Rebellion had begun.[515]

From the very first the movement assumed the character of an insurrection.[516] Amid the hearty
applause of his rough followers, Bacon spoke of the negligence, the incapacity and wickedness
of the government. Their betrayal into the hands of the savages was but one of many grievances.
The laws were unjust, the taxes oppressive. Something must be done to redress these wrongs
and to end misgovernment.[517] And as the poor people flocked in to him, he listed their names
in a huge round-robin and bound them to him by an oath of fidelity.[518]

