Notable Voyagers, From Columbus to Nordenskiold, by W.H.G. Kingston and Henry Frith.

Profusely illustrated, this rather long book is just pitched right, for it gives interesting
detail of some important voyages made from the earliest days up to the end of the nineteenth
century.  It is not too terse, and not too profuse, just right to capture your interest and
hold it.

It was interesting, too, to be told the real story of Alexander Selkirk, the original of the
famous "Robinson Crusoe" book.

The story of some of the adventurers who looked for the North-West passage were most interesting,
as well.

There are over 100 illustrations, though a few of them are just little thumb-nail icon-sized
images placed at the ends of chapters.  The rest are quite nice images, though shown here at
only 30% of each linear dimension of those we found in our scans of the book.

NOTABLE VOYAGERS, FROM COLUMBUS TO NORDENSKIOLD, BY W.H.G. KINGSTON AND HENRY FRITH.

From Columbus to Nordenskiold.

CHAPTER ONE.

INTRODUCTION--A.D. 1486.

Columbus before the conclave of Professors at Seville--His parentage and early history--Battle
with Venetian galleys--Residence in Portugal-- Marries widow of a navigator--Grounds on which
he founded his theory-- Offers his services to the King of Portugal--His offer declined--Sends
his brother Bartholomew to Henry the Seventh of England--Don John sends out a squadron to forestall
him--Sets off for Spain--Introduced by the Duke of Medina Celi to Queen Isabella--She encourages
him--Plan for the recovery of the Holy Sepulchre--His long detention at Court while Ferdinand
and Isabella are engaged in the war against the Moors of Granada--A hearing at length afforded
him--His demands refused--Leaves the Court in poverty and visits Palos on his way to France--Met
by Juan Perez, Prior of the Rabida convent--The Prior listens to his plans-- Introduces him
to the Pinzons, and informs the Queen of his intended departure--Sent for back at Court--All
his demands agreed to--Authority given him to fit out a squadron.

In the year 1486 a council of learned professors of geography, mathematics, and all branches
of science, erudite friars, accomplished bishops, and other dignitaries of the Church, were
seated in the vast arched hall of the old Dominican convent of Saint Stephen in Salamanca,
then the great seat of learning in Spain.  They had met to hear a simple mariner, then standing
in their midst, propound and defend certain conclusions at which he had arrived regarding the
form and geography of the earth, and the possibility, nay, the certainty, that by sailing west,
the unknown shores of Eastern India could be reached.  Some of his hearers declared it to be
grossly presumptuous in an ordinary man to suppose, after so many profound philosophers and
mathematicians had been studying the world, and so many able navigators had been sailing about
it for years past, that there remained so vast a discovery for him to make.  Some cited the
books of the Old Testament to prove that he was wrong, others the explanations of various reverend
commentators. Doctrinal points were mixed up with philosophical discussions, and a mathematical
demonstration was allowed no weight if it appeared to clash with a text of Scripture or comment
of one of the fathers.

Although Pliny and the wisest of the ancients had maintained the possibility of an antipodes
in the southern hemisphere, these learned gentlemen made out that it was altogether a novel theory.

Others declared that to assert there were inhabited lands on the opposite side of the globe
would be to maintain that there were nations not descended from Adam, as it would have been
impossible for them to have passed the intervening ocean, and therefore discredit would be
thrown on the Bible.

Again, some of the council more versed in science, though admitting the globular form of the
earth, and the possibility of an opposite habitable hemisphere, maintained that it would be
impossible to arrive there on account of the insupportable heat of the torrid zone; besides
which, if the circumference of the earth was as great as they supposed, it would require three
years to make the voyage.

The mariner replied in answer to the scriptural objection that the inspired writers were not
speaking technically as cosmographers, but figuratively, in language addressed to all comprehensions,
and that the commentaries of the fathers were not to be considered as philosophical propoundings,
which it was necessary either to admit or refute.

In regard to the impossibility of passing the torrid zone, he himself stated that he had voyaged
as far as Guinea under the equinoxial line, and had found that region not only traversable,
but abounding in population, fruits, and pasturage.

Who was this simple mariner who could thus dare to differ from so many learned sages?  His
person was commanding; his demeanour elevated; his eye kindling; his manner that of one who
had a right to be heard, while a rich flow of eloquence carried his hearers with him.  His
countenance was handsome; his hair already blanched by thought, toil, and privation.

He was no other than Columbus, who, after his proposals had been rejected by the Court of Portugal,
had addressed himself to that of Spain, and had, year after year, waited patiently to obtain
a hearing from Ferdinand and Isabella, then occupied in their wars against the Moors.

He had been a seaman from the age of fourteen.  He was born in the city of Genoa about the
year 1435, where his father, Dominico Colombo, carried on the business of a wool comber, which
his ancestors had followed for several generations.  He was the eldest of three brothers, the
others being Bartholomew and Diego.  He had at an early age evinced a desire for the sea, and
accordingly his education had been mainly directed to fit him for maritime life.

His first voyages were made with a distant relative named Colombo, a hardy veteran of the seas,
who had risen to some distinction by his bravery.

Under this relative young Christopher saw much service, both warlike and in trading voyages,
until he gained command of a war ship of good size. When serving in the squadron of his cousin
information was brought that four richly-laden Venetian galleys were on their return voyage
from Flanders.  The squadron lay in wait for them off the Portuguese coast, between Lisbon
and Cape Saint Vincent.  A desperate engagement ensued; the vessels grappled each other.  That
commanded by Columbus was engaged with a huge Venetian galley.  Hand-grenades and other fiery
missiles were thrown on board her, and the galley was wrapped in flames.  So closely were the
vessels fastened together, that both were involved in one conflagration.  The crews threw themselves
into the sea.  Columbus seized an oar, and being an expert swimmer, reached the shore, though
fully two leagues distant.  On recovering he made his way to Lisbon. Possibly he may have resided
there previously; certain it is that he there married a lady, the daughter of a distinguished
navigator, from whose widow he obtained much information regarding the voyages and expeditions
of her late husband, as well as from his papers, charts, journals, and memoranda.

Having become naturalised in Portugal, he sailed occasionally on voyages to the coast of Guinea,
and when on shore supported his family by making maps and charts, which in those days required
a degree of knowledge and experience sufficient to entitle the possessor to distinction.

He associated with various navigators, and he noted down all he heard. It was said by some
that islands had been seen far away to the west when they had been driven in that direction.
Whatever credit might have been given to these reports by Columbus, he had far stronger reasons
for believing that, by sailing across the ocean to the west, he should reach land.  He was
of opinion that about one-third of the circumference of the earth was unknown and unexplored.
A great portion of this might be filled up by the eastern regions of Asia, while the tract
of water intervening between these countries might be less than at first supposed.

In the thirteenth and fourteenth centuries, two great travellers, Marco Polo and Sir John Mandeville,
journeyed eastward over a large portion of Asia, and had given vivid descriptions of the magnificence
of its cities and scenery.  Marco Polo especially had described two large islands, Ontilla
and Cipango, the latter undoubtedly Japan, which it was expected would be the first reached
by a navigator sailing westward.

A Portuguese pilot, Martin Vicenti, after sailing four hundred and fifty-two leagues to the
west of Cape Saint Vincent, had found a piece of carved wood evidently laboured with an iron
instrument, and as probably the wind had drifted it from the west, it might have come from
some unknown land in that direction.  A brother-in-law of Columbus had likewise found a similar
piece of wood drifted from the same quarter. Reeds of enormous size, such as were described
by Ptolemy to grow in India, had been picked up, and trunks of huge pine-trees had been driven
on the shores of the Azores, such as did not grow on any of those islands.  The bodies of two
dead men, whose features differed from those of any known race of people, had been cast on
the island of Flores. There were islands, it was rumoured, still farther west than those visited,
and a mariner sailing from Port Saint Mary to Ireland asserted that he had seen land to the
west, which the ship's company took to be some extreme point of Tartary.

These facts being made known to Columbus, served to strengthen his opinion.  The success indeed
of his undertaking depended greatly on two happy errors: the imaginary extent of Asia to the
east, and the supposed smallness of the earth.  A deep religious sentiment mingled with his
meditations.  He looked upon himself as chosen by Heaven for the accomplishment of its purposes,
that the ends of the earth might be brought together, and all nations and tongues united under
the banner of the Redeemer.

The enthusiastic nature of his conceptions gave an elevation to his spirit, and dignity and
eloquence to his whole demeanour.  He never spoke in doubt or hesitation, but with as much
certainty as if his eyes had beheld the promised land.

No trial or disappointment could divert him from the steady pursuit of his object.  That object,
it is supposed, he meditated as early as the year 1474, though as yet it lay crude and immatured
in his mind. Shortly afterwards, in the year 1477, he made a voyage to the north of Europe,
navigating one hundred leagues beyond Thule, when he reached an island as large as England,
generally supposed to have been Iceland.

In vain he had applied to Don John the Second, who ascended the throne of Portugal in 1481.
That king was so deeply engaged in sending out expeditions to explore the African coast that
his counsellors advised him to confine his efforts in that direction.  He would, however, have
given his consent had not Columbus demanded such high and honourable rewards as were considered
inadmissible.

To his eternal disgrace the Bishop of Ceuta advised that Columbus should be kept in suspense
while a vessel was secretly dispatched in the direction he pointed out, to ascertain if there
was any truth in his story.  This was actually done, until the caravel meeting with stormy
weather, and an interminable waste of wild tumbling waves, the pilots lost courage and returned.

Columbus, indignant at this attempt to defraud him, his wife having died some time previously,
resolved to abandon the country which had acted so treacherously.  He first sent his brother
Bartholomew to make proposals to Henry the Seventh, King of England; but that sovereign rejected
his offers, and having again made a proposal to Genoa, which, from the reverses she had lately
received, she was unable to accept, he turned his eyes to Spain.

The great Spanish Dukes of Medina Sidonia and Medina Coeli, were at first inclined to support
him, and the latter spoke of him to Queen Isabella, who giving a favourable reply, Columbus
set off for the Spanish Court, then at Cordova.

The sovereigns of Castile and Arragon were, however, so actively engaged in carrying on the
fierce war with the Moors of Grenada, that they were unable to give due attention to the scheme
of the navigator, while their counsellors generally derided his proposals.

The beautiful and enlightened Isabella treated him from the first with respect, and other friends
rose up who were ready to give him support.

Wearied and discouraged by long delays, however, he had again opened up negotiations with the
King of Portugal, and had been requested by that monarch to return there.  He had also received
a letter from Henry the Seventh of England, inviting him to his Court, and holding out promises
of encouragement, when he was again summoned to attend the Castilian Court, and a sum of money
was sent him to defray his expenses, King Ferdinand probably fearing that he would carry his
proposals to a rival monarch, and wishing to keep the matter in suspense until he had leisure
to examine it.

He accordingly repaired to the Court of Seville.  While he was there two monks arrived with
a message from the Grand Soldan of Egypt, threatening to put to death all the Christians and
to destroy the Holy Sepulchre if the Spanish sovereigns did not desist from war against Grenada.

The menace had no effect in altering their purpose, but it aroused the indignation of the Spanish
cavaliers, and still more so that of Columbus, and made them burn with ardent zeal once more
to revive the contest of faith on the sacred plains of Palestine.  Columbus had indeed resolved,
should his projected enterprise prove successful, to devote the profits from his anticipated
discoveries to a crusade for the rescue of the Holy Sepulchre from the power of the infidels.

During the latter part of the year 1490 Ferdinand and Isabella were engaged in celebrating
the marriage of their eldest daughter, the Princess Isabella, with Prince Don Alonzo, heir
apparent of Portugal. Bearing these long and vexatious delays as he had before done, Columbus
supported himself chiefly by making maps and charts, occasionally assisted from the purse of
his friend Diego de Deza.

The year was passing on.  Columbus was kept in a state of irritating anxiety at Cordova, when
he heard that the sovereigns were about to commence that campaign which ended in the expulsion
of the Moors from Spain.  Aware that many months must pass before they would give their minds
to the subject if he allowed the present moment to slip by, he pressed for a decisive reply
to his proposals with an earnestness that would admit of no evasion.

The learned men of the council were directed to express their opinion of the enterprise.  The
report of each was unfavourable, although the worthy friar Diego de Deza, tutor to Prince John,
and several others, urged the sovereigns not to lose the opportunity of extending their dominions
and adding so greatly to their glory.

Again, however, Columbus was put off.  Having no longer confidence in the vague promises which
had hitherto been made, he turned his back on Seville, resolved to offer to the King of France
the honour of carrying out his magnificent undertaking.

Leaving Seville, his means exhausted, he travelled on foot, leading his young son Diego by
the hand, to the sea-port of Palos de Moguer in Andalusia.  Weary and exhausted, he stopped
to ask for bread and water at the gate of the ancient Franciscan convent of Santa Maria de Rabida.

The Prior, Juan Perez de Marchena, happening to come up, and remarking the appearance of the
stranger, entered into conversation with him.  The Prior, a man of superior information, was
struck with the grandeur of his views, and when he found that the navigator was on the point
of abandoning Spain to seek patronage in the Court of France, and that so important an enterprise
was about to be lost for ever to the country, his patriotism took the alarm.  He entertained
Columbus as his guest, and invited a scientific friend--a physician--Garcia Fernandez, to converse
with him.

Fernandez was soon captivated by his conversation.  Frequent conferences took place, at which
several of the veteran mariners of Palos were present.  Among these was Martin Alonzo Pinzon,
the head of a family of wealthy and experienced navigators.  Facts were related by some of
the mariners in support of the theory of Columbus, and so convinced was Pinzon of the feasibility
of his project, that he offered to engage in it with purse and person.  The Prior, who had
once been confessor to the Queen, was confirmed in his faith by the opinions expressed, and
he proposed writing to her immediately, and entreated Columbus to delay his journey until an
answer could be received.

It was decided to send Sebastian Rodriguez, a shrewd and clever pilot, to Santa Fe, where the
Queen then was.  Isabella had always been favourable to Columbus, and the Prior received a
reply desiring that he himself should repair to Court.  He went, and, seconded by the Marchioness
of Moya and other old friends, so impressed the Queen with the importance of the undertaking,
that she desired Columbus might be sent for, and ordered that seventy-two dollars, equal to
two hundred and sixteen of the present day, might be forwarded to him, to bear his travelling
expenses.

With his hopes raised to the highest pitch, Columbus again repaired to Court; but so fully
occupied was he with the grandeur of his enterprise, that he stipulated that he should be invested
with the title and privilege of admiral, and viceroy over the countries he should discover,
with one-tenth of all gains, either by trade or conquest.  It must be remembered the pious
and patriotic way--according to his notions--in which he intended to expend the wealth he hoped
to acquire.

The courtiers were indignant, and sneeringly observed that his arrangement was a secure one,
that he was sure of a command, and had nothing to lose.

On this he offered to furnish one-eighth of the cost, on condition of enjoying one-eighth of
the profit.  The King looked coldly on the affair, and once more the sovereigns of Spain declined
the offer. Columbus was at length again about to set off on his journey to Palos, when the
generous spirit of Isabella was kindled by the remarks of the Marchioness of Moya, supported
by Louis de Saint Angel, Receiver of the Ecclesiastical Revenues in Arragon.

Saint Angel assured her there was no necessity for pledging her jewels, and expressed his readiness
to advance seventeen thousand florins.  A messenger was dispatched to bring back the navigator,
with the assurance that all he desired would be granted; and so, turning the reins of his mule,
he hastened back with joyful alacrity to Santa Fe, confiding in the noble probity of the Queen.

Articles of agreement were drawn up by the royal secretary at once. Columbus was to have for
himself during his life, and his heirs and successors for ever, the office of admiral of all
lands and continents which he might discover.

Secondly: He was to be viceroy and governor-general over them.

Fourthly: He or his lieutenant was to be the sole judge in all cases and disputes arising out
of traffic between those countries and Spain.

The latter engagement he fulfilled through the assistance of the Pinzons of Palos, and added
a third vessel to the armament.

Thus, one-eighth of the expense attendant on this grand expedition, undertaken by a powerful
nation, was actually borne by the individual who conceived it, and who likewise risked his
life on its success.

The capitulations were afterwards signed by Ferdinand and Isabella on the 17th of April, 1492,
when, in addition to the above articles, Columbus and his heirs were authorised to prefix the
title of Don to their names.

It was arranged that the armament should be fitted out at the port of Palos, Columbus calculating
on the co-operation of his friends Martin Alonzo Pinzon and the Prior of the convent.

Both Isabella and Columbus were influenced by a pious zeal for effecting the great work of
salvation among the potentates and peoples of the lands to be discovered.  He expected to arrive
at the extremity of the ocean, and to open up direct communication with the vast and magnificent
empire of the Grand Khan of Tartary.  His deep and cherished design was the recovery of the
Holy Sepulchre, which he meditated during the remainder of his life, and solemnly provided
for in his will.

CHAPTER TWO.

FIRST VOYAGE OF COLUMBUS--A.D. 1492.

Columbus returns to Palos--Assisted by the Prior of La Rabida--The Pinzons agree to join him--Difficulty
of obtaining ships and men--At length three vessels fitted out--Sails in the Santa Maria, with
the Pinta and Nina, on 3rd August, 1492--Terrors and mutinous disposition of the crews--Reaches
the Canary Islands--Narrowly escapes from a Portuguese squadron seat to capture him--Alarm
of the crews increases--The squadron sails smoothly on--Columbus keeps two logs to deceive
the seamen--Signs of land--Seaweed--Flights of birds--Birds pitch on the ship--Frequent changes
in the tempers of the crews-- Westerly course long held--Course altered to south-west--Pinzon
fancies he sees land--Disappointment--Columbus sees lights at night--Morning dawns--San Salvador
discovered--Natives seen--Columbus lands--Wonder of the natives--Proceeds in search of Cipango--Other
islands visited, and gold looked for in vain--Friendly reception by the natives--Supplies brought
off--Search for Saometo--Cuba discovered 20th October, 1492-- Calls it Juana--Believes it to
be the mainland of India--Sends envoys into the interior--Their favourable report of the fertility
of the country--A storm--Deserted by Martin Pinzon in the Pinta--First view of Hispaniola--A
native girl captured--Set free--Returns with large numbers of her countrymen--Arcadian simplicity
of the natives.

Columbus hastened to Palos, where he was received as the guest of Fray Juan Perez, the worthy
Prior of the convent of Rabida.  The whole squadron with which the two sovereigns proposed
to carry out their grand undertaking was to consist only of three small vessels.  Two of these,
by a royal decree, were to be furnished by Palos, the other by Columbus himself or his friends.

The morning after his arrival, Columbus, accompanied by the Prior, proceeded to the church
of Saint George in Palos, where the authorities and principal inhabitants had been ordered
to attend.  Here the royal order was read by a notary public, commanding them to have two caravels
ready for sea in ten days, they and their crews to be placed at the disposal of Columbus. 
He himself was empowered to procure and fit out a third vessel.

Orders were likewise read, addressed to the public authorities, and the people of all ranks
and conditions in the maritime borders of Andalusia, commanding them to furnish supplies and
assistance of all kinds for fitting out the caravels.

When, however, the nature of the service was explained, the owners of vessels refused to furnish
them, and the seamen shrank from sailing into the wilderness of the ocean.

Several weeks elapsed, and not a vessel had been procured.  The sovereigns therefore issued
further orders, directing the magistrates to press into the service any caravel they might
select, and to compel the masters and crews to sail with Columbus in whatever direction he
should be sent.

Notwithstanding this nothing was done, until at length Martin Alonzo Pinzon, with his brother,
Vincente Yanez Pinzon--both navigators of great courage and ability, and owners of vessels--undertook
to sail on the expedition, and furnish one of the caravels required.  Two others were pressed
by the magistrates under the arbitrary mandate of the sovereigns.

The owners of one of the vessels, the Pinta, threw all possible obstacles in the way of her
being fitted out.  The caulkers performed their work in an imperfect manner, and even some
of the seamen who had at first volunteered repented of their hardihood, and others deserted.

The example of the Pinzons at length overcame all opposition, and the three vessels, two of
them known as caravels, not superior to the coasting craft of more modern days, were got ready
by the beginning of August.

Columbus hoisted his flag on board the largest, the Santa Maria; the second, the Pinta, was
commanded by Martin Alonzo Pinzon, accompanied by his brother Francisco Martin as pilot; and
the third, the Nina, was commanded by Vincente Yafiez Pinzon.  The other three pilots were
Sancho Raiz, Pedro Alonzo Nino, and Bartolomeo Roldan.  Roderigo de Escobar went as royal notary.
In all, one hundred and twenty persons.

Columbus and his followers, having solemnly taken the communion, went on board their ships.
Believing that their friends were going to certain death, the inhabitants of Paios looked on
with gloomy apprehensions, which greatly affected the minds of the crew.

The little squadron set sail from Palos half an hour before sunrise on the 3rd of August, 1492,
and steered a course for the Canary Islands. Columbus had prepared a chart by which to sail.
On this he drew the coasts of Europe and Africa, from the south of Ireland to the end of Guinea,
and opposite to them, on the other side of the Atlantic, the extremity of Asia, or rather India,
as it was then called.  Between them he placed the island of Cipango or Japan, which, according
to Marco Polo, lay one thousand five hundred miles from the Atlantic coast.  This island Columbus
placed where Florida really exists.  Though he saw his hopes of commencing the expedition realised,
he had good reason to fear that his crews might at any moment insist on returning.

On the third day after sailing, it was discovered that the rudder of the Pinta was broken and
unslung, probably a trick of her owners.  The wind was blowing so strongly at the time that
he could not render assistance, but Martin Alonzo Pinzon, being an able seaman, succeeded in
securing it temporarily with ropes.

As the Pinta also leaked, Columbus put into the Canaries on the morning of the 9th of August,
and was detained there three weeks, trying to obtain a better vessel.  None being found, the
lateen sails of the Pinta were altered into square sails.  While here the crews were frightened
by seeing flames burst out of the lofty peak of Teneriffe. Shortly after a vessel arrived from
Ferro, which reported that three Portuguese caravels were watching to capture the squadron
of Columbus, who, suspecting that the King of Portugal had formed a hostile plan in revenge
for his having embarked in the service of Spain, immediately put to sea and stood away from
the coast.  He was now striking off from the frontier islands of the Old World into the region
of discovery.  For three days the squadron was detained by a calm.  On the 9th of September
he saw Ferro, the most western of the Canary Islands, where the Portuguese were said to be
waiting for him, about nine leagues distant. At length, a breeze filling the sails of his ships,
he was able to stand on his course, as he hoped, free of all danger.  Chaos, mystery, and peril
were before them.  The hearts of his crew sank as they lost sight of land, and many of the
seamen broke into loud lamentations.  The Admiral tried to soothe their distress, and to inspire
them with his own glorious anticipations by describing to them the magnificence of the countries
to which he was about to conduct them, and the wealth and glory which would be theirs.  The
slightest thing alarmed them.  When about one hundred and fifty leagues west of Ferro, they
picked up part of the mast of a large vessel, and the crews fancied that she must have been
wrecked drifting ominously to the entrance of those unknown seas.

About nightfall, on the 13th of September, he for the first time noticed the variation of the
needle, which, instead of pointing to the north star, varied about half a point.  He remarked
that this variation of the needle increased as he advanced.

The explanation appeared so highly plausible and ingenious that it was readily received.  On
the 14th of September they believed that they were near land, from seeing a heron and a tropical
bird, neither of which were supposed to venture far out to sea.

The following night the mariners were awestruck by beholding a meteor of great brilliancy--a
common phenomenon in those latitudes.  With a favourable breeze, day after day, the squadron
was wafted on, so that it was unnecessary to shift a single sail.

They now began to observe patches of weeds drifting from the west, which increased in size
as they advanced.  These, together with a white tropical bird which never sleeps on the water,
made Columbus hope that he was approaching some island; for, as he had come but three hundred
and sixty leagues since leaving the Canary Islands, he supposed the mainland still to be far off.

The breeze was soft and steady, the water smooth.  The crews were in high spirits, and every
seaman was on the look-out, for a pension of ten thousand maravedis had been promised to him
who should first discover land.

Alonzo Pinzon in the Pinta took the lead.  On the afternoon of the 13th of September he hailed
the Admiral, saying that from the flight of numerous birds and the appearance of the northern
horizon, he thought there was land in that direction; but Columbus replied that it was merely
a deception of the clouds, and would not alter his course.

The following day there were drizzling showers, and two boobies flew on board the Santa Maria,
birds which seldom wander more than twenty leagues from land.  Sounding, however, no bottom
was found.  Unwilling to waste the present fair breeze, he resolved, whatever others thought,
to keep one bold course until the coast of India was reached.

Notwithstanding, even the favourable breeze began to frighten the seamen, who imagined that
the wind in those regions might always blow from the east, and if so, would prevent their return
to Spain.

Not long after the wind shifted to the south-west, and restored their courage, proving to them
that the wind did not always prevail from the east.  Several small birds also visited the ships,
singing as they perched on the rigging, thus showing that they were not exhausted by their
flight.  Again the squadron passed among numerous patches of seaweed, and the crews, ever ready
to take alarm, having heard that ships were sometimes frozen in by ice, fancied that they might
be fixed in the same manner, until they were caught by the nipping hand of winter.

Then they took it into their heads that the water was growing shoaler, and expressed their
fears that they might run on some sand-banks and be lost.  Then a whale was seen, which creature
Columbus assured them never went far from land.  Notwithstanding, they became uneasy at the
calmness of the weather, declaring that as the prevailing winds were from the east, and had
not power to disturb the torpid stillness of the ocean, there was the risk of perishing amidst
stagnant and shoreless waters, and being prevented by contrary winds from ever returning to Spain.

Next a swell got up, which showed that their terrors caused by the calm were imaginary.  Notwithstanding
this, and the favourable signs which increased his confidence, he feared that after all, breaking
into mutiny, they would compel him to return.

The sailors fancied that their ships were too weak for so long a voyage, and held secret consultations,
exciting each other's discontent.  They had gone farther than any one before had done.  Who
could blame them, should they, consulting their safety, turn back?

Columbus, though aware of the mutinous disposition of his crew, maintained a serene and steady
countenance, using gentle words with some, stimulating the pride and avarice of others, and
threatening the refractory.

On the 25th of September the wind again became favourable, and the squadron resumed its westerly
course.  Pinzon now, on examining the chart, supposed that they must be approaching Cipango.
Columbus desired to have it returned, and it was thrown on board at the end of a line.

While Columbus and his pilot were studying it, they heard a shout, and looking up saw Pinzon
standing at the stern of the Pinta, crying, "Land! land!  Senor, I claim my reward!"

There was indeed an appearance of land to the south-west.  Columbus and the other officers
threw themselves on their knees, and returned thanks to God.  The seamen, mounting the rigging,
strained their eyes in the direction pointed out, but the morning light put an end to their hopes.

Again with dejected hearts they proceeded, the sea, as before, tranquil, the breeze propitious,
and the weather mild and delightful.  In a day or two more weeds were seen floating from east
to west, but no birds were visible.  The people again expressed their fears that they had passed
between two islands; but after the lapse of another day the ships were visited by numberless
birds, and various indications of land became more numerous.  Full of hope, the seamen ascended
the rigging, and were continually crying out that they saw land.

Columbus put a stop to these false alarms, declaring that should any one assert that they saw
land, and it was not discovered within three days, he should forfeit all claim to the reward.

Pinzon now proposed that they should steer south-west, but Columbus persisted in keeping a
westerly course.  On the 7th of October, at sunrise, several of the Admiral's crew fancied
that they saw land; the Nina pressing forward, a flag was run up at her masthead, and a gun
was fired,--the preconcerted signal for land.

The captain and his crew were mistaken notwithstanding.  The clouds which had deceived them
melted away.  The crews again became dejected. But once more flocks of field birds were seen
flying through the air to the south-west, and Columbus, having already run the distance at
the termination of which he had expected to find the island of Cipango, fancied he might have
missed it.  He therefore altered his course to the south-west.

As the ships advanced the signs of land increased: a heron, a pelican, and a duck were seen
bound in the same direction.  Branches of trees, and grass, fresh and green, were observed.
The crews, however, believing these to be mere delusions for leading them on to destruction,
insisted on abandoning the voyage.

Columbus sternly resisted their importunities, and the following day a branch of thorn, with
berries on it, and a staff artificially carved, with other articles, were picked up, showing
that land must be close at hand.

All gloom and mutiny now gave way to sanguine expectations, and Columbus promised a doublet
of velvet, in addition to the pension to be given by the sovereign, to whosoever should first
see the longed-for shore.

As he walked the high poop of his ship at night, his eye continually ranging along the horizon,
he thought he saw a light glimmering at a great distance.  Fearing that his hopes might deceive
him, he successively called up two of his officers.  They both saw it, apparently proceeding
from a torch in the bark of a fisherman, or held in the hand of some person on shore, borne
up as he walked.

So uncertain were these gleams that few attached any importance to them. The ships continued
their course until two in the morning, when Rodrigo de Triana, a seaman on board the Pinta,
descried land at two leagues ahead.  A gun was fired from the Santa Maria, to give the joyful
news. When all doubt on the subject was banished the ships lay to.

Who can picture the thoughts and feelings of Columbus, as he walked the deck, impatiently waiting
for dawn, which was to show him clearly the long-sought-for land, with, as he hoped, its spicy
groves, its glittering temples, its gilded cities, and all the splendour of Oriental civilisation!

As the dawn of the 12th of October, 1492, increased, Columbus first observed one of the outlying
islands of the New World.  It was several leagues in extent, level, and covered with trees,
and populated, for the naked inhabitants were seen running from all parts to the shore, and
gazing with astonishment at the ships.  The anchors being dropped, the boats manned, he, richly
attired in scarlet and holding the royal standard, accompanied by the Pinzons in their own
boats, approached the shore.

On landing he threw himself on his knees, and kissing the earth, returned thanks to God, the
rest following his example.  He then, drawing his sword, took possession of the island, which
he named San Salvador, in the names of the sovereigns of Castile.  The crews now thronged round
the Admiral, some embracing him, others kissing his hands, expressing their joy; the most mutinous
becoming the most enthusiastic and devoted.

The natives, who had at first fled, supposing the ships monsters which had risen from the deep,
recovering their fears, now timidly advanced, lost in admiration at the shining armour and
splendid dresses of the Spaniards, and their complexions and beards, at once recognising the
Admiral as the commander of the strangers.

Columbus, pleased with their gentleness, suffered them to scrutinise him, and won them by his
benignity.  The natives were equally objects of curiosity to the Spaniards.  They were naked,
painted all over with a variety of colours and designs.  Their complexion was tawny, and they
were destitute of beards; their hair not crisp, like that of negroes, but straight and coarse;
their features were agreeable; their stature moderate and well shaped; their foreheads lofty,
and their eyes remarkably fine.  Their only arms were lances pointed with the teeth or bones
of fishes.  There was no iron seen, and so ignorant were the natives of its properties, that
one of them took a drawn sword by the edge, not aware that it would cut.

Columbus, to win their confidence, distributed among them coloured caps, hawks' bells, and
glass beads, with which they were highly pleased, allowing the Spaniards unmolested to walk
about the groves examining the beautiful trees, the shrubs, fruits, and flowers, all so strange
to them.

The next morning canoes of all sizes, formed out of single trees, came off, some holding one
man, some forty or fifty, who managed them with great dexterity.

They readily accepted toys and trinkets, which, supposing them to be brought from heaven, possessed
a supernatural virtue in their eyes.  The only things they had to give in return were parrots
and balls of cotton-yarn, besides cassava cakes, formed from the flour of a root called yuca,
which they cultivated in their fields.  The Spaniards, who were eagerly looking out for gold,
were delighted to obtain some small ornaments of that metal in exchange for beads and hawks'
bells.  As it was a royal monopoly, Columbus forbade any traffic in it, as he did also in cotton,
reserving to the crown all trade in it.

Misled by the accounts he had read in Marco Polo's works, he was from the first persuaded that
he had arrived at the islands lying opposite Cathay in the Chinese seas, and that the country
to the south, which he understood from the natives abounded in gold, must be the famous island
of Cipango.

San Salvador, where he first landed, still retains its name, though called by the English from
its shape Cat Island.  It is one of the great cluster of the Lucayos or Bahama Islands.  Coasting
round it in the boats, the Admiral visited various spots, and had friendly intercourse with
the natives, to whom he gave glass beads and other trifles.

He landed at another place, where there were six Indian huts surrounded by groves and gardens
as beautiful as those of Castile.

At last the sailors, wearied with their exertions, returned to the ships, carrying seven Indians,
that they might, by acquiring the Spanish language, serve as interpreters.  Taking in a supply
of wood and water, the squadron sailed the same evening to the south, where the Admiral expected
to discover Cipango.  As the Indians told him there were upwards of a hundred islands in the
neighbourhood, he was confirmed in his belief that they must be those described by Marco Polo,
abounding with gold, silver, drugs, and spices.

Several other islands were visited, but the explorers looked in vain for bracelets and anklets
of gold.  One day, just as the ships were about to make sail, one of the San Salvador Indians
on board the Nina, plunging overboard, swam to a large canoe which had come near.  A boat was
sent in chase, but the Indians in their light canoe escaped, and reaching the island fled to
the woods.  Shortly afterwards a canoe, having on board a single native, coming near, he was
captured and brought to Columbus, who, treating him with kindness won his heart; his canoe
was also restored to him, and that taken by the Nina was set at liberty.

Soon afterwards, while traversing the channel between two islands, when about midway another
Indian in his canoe was overtaken, a string of glass beads round his neck, showing that he
had come from San Salvador.

Columbus, admiring his hardihood, had him and his canoe taken on board, when he was treated
with great kindness, bread and honey being given him to eat.  It was too late to select a spot
through the transparent sea for anchoring, and the ship lay to until the morning, while the
Indian voyager, with all his effects and loaded with presents, was allowed to depart.

Next day the natives came off, bringing fruits, and roots, and pure water.  They were treated
in the same way as the former had been.  Their huts, which were formed of tall poles and branches
neatly interwoven with palm-leaves of a circular form, were visited.  They were clean and neat,
and generally sheltered under wide-spreading trees.  For beds they had nets of cotton extended
between two posts, which they called hammocks, a name since generally adopted by seamen.

Columbus, as he sailed round the island, found a magnificent harbour, sufficient to hold a
hundred ships.  He was delighted with the beauty of the scenery, the shady groves, the fruits,
the herbs and flowers,--all differing so greatly from those of Spain.  Everywhere the natives
received their visitors as superior beings, and gladly conducted them to the coolest springs,
and assisted them in rolling their casks to the boats.  To the last island visited by Columbus
he gave the name of Fernandina.  Sailing thence on the 19th of October, he steered in quest
of a large island called Saometo, where, misled by his guides, he expected to find the sovereign
of the surrounding islands, habited in rich clothes and jewels and gold, possessed of great
treasures, a large city, and a gold-mine.  Neither were found; but the voyagers were delighted
with the balmy air, the beautiful scenery, the graceful trees, the vast flocks of parrots and
other birds of gorgeous plumage, and the fish, which rivalled them in the brilliancy of their
colours.  No animals were seen, with the exception of a dog which never barked, a species of
rabbit, and numerous lizards and iguanas.

Columbus was as much misled by his own fervent imagination as by not comprehending the accounts
given him by the natives.  He proposed that his stay at those islands should depend upon the
quantity of gold, spices, precious stones, and other objects of Oriental trade which he should
find there.  After this he intended to proceed to the mainland of India, which he calculated
was within ten days' sail, and there, after visiting some of its magnificent capitals described
by Marco Polo, he would deliver the letters of the sovereigns to the Grand Khan, with whose
reply he would return triumphantly to Spain.

Such was his idea when, leaving the Bahamas, he went in quest of the island of Cuba, of which
he had been told.

Touching at various islands, having crossed the Bahama bank, he came in sight of Cuba on the
morning of the 28th of October.  He was struck as he approached by its lofty mountains, its
far-stretching headlands, its plains and valleys, and noble rivers.

He anchored in a beautiful stream, the banks overhung with trees.  Here landing, he took possession
of the island, giving it the name of Juana, in honour of Prince Juan, and the river that of
San Salvador.  Going on shore in search of the inhabitants, he found only two abandoned huts,
containing a few nets, hooks, and harpoons of bone, showing that the owners were mere savages.

Again he was delighted with the scenery, and the vast flights of birds of gorgeous plumage,
parrots, woodpeckers, and humming-birds flitting among the trees, and sucking honey from the
flowers.  He fancied too, from the smell of the woods, that he perceived the fragrance of Oriental
spices.  He discovered also shells of the kind of oysters which produce pearls.

Having experienced since his arrival soft and genial weather, he concluded that a perpetual
serenity reigned over those happy seas. Though the inhabitants had fled, he remarked that their
dwellings were better built than those he had hitherto seen, being clean in the extreme; and
as he discovered a few rude statues and wooden masks ingeniously carved, he supposed that these
signs of civilisation would go on increasing as he advanced towards terra firma.  He fancied
that the inhabitants had fled, mistaking his armament for one of those scouring expeditions
sent by the Grand Khan to make prisoners and slaves.  He, however, with the assistance of his
Indian friends, succeeded in calming the fears of the natives, who came off in sixteen canoes,
bringing cotton-yarn and other simple articles of traffic.  He forbade, however, all trading
for anything but gold, that the natives might be tempted to produce the real riches of their
country.

Again misled by his guides, he was induced to believe that a powerful chief lived in the interior
of the country, and two of his officers were therefore dispatched, carrying presents and specimens
of spices and drugs, to ascertain whether such productions were to be found there. They were
directed also to obtain all the information they could respecting it.

While his envoys were absent he had his ships careened and repaired. During this time reports
were brought him of the existence of cinnamon-trees, nutmegs, and rhubarb; and his native friends,
when he showed them gold and pearls, declared that there were people in an island called Bohio
who wore such things round their necks, arms, and ankles.

The return of the envoys was eagerly looked forward to, but their report when they appeared
quickly disabused the Admiral's mind.  After travelling about twelve leagues they arrived at
a village of about fifty houses, containing a thousand inhabitants, who had received them with
every mark of respect, looking upon them as beings of a superior order. The villagers, however,
were as little advanced in civilisation as those on the coast, nor was gold, cinnamon, nor
pepper to be found among them, although they said such things existed far off to the south-west.

On their return with some of the inhabitants, the Spaniards were surprised to see them roll
up the dried leaves of a plant which they called "tobacco," and smoke it with a satisfaction
which the voyagers could not comprehend, as it appeared to them an unsavoury nauseous indulgence,
little dreaming what determined smokers their descendants would become.  The envoys described
the country as fertile in the extreme, the fields produced pepper, sweet potatoes, maize, pulse,
and yuca, while the trees were laden with tempting fruits of delicious flavour.  There was
also a vast quantity of cotton,--some just growing, some in full growth,--while the houses
were stored with it partly wrought into yarn and nets.

Columbus was, by the misapprehension of terms, led into many errors. Bohio, meaning simply
"a house," and therefore signifying a populous island, was frequently applied to Hispaniola.
His great object, however, was to reach some civilised country of the East with which he might
establish commercial relations, and carry home its Oriental merchandise as a rich trophy of
his discovery.  Besides Bohio, he had heard of another island called Babique, of which he now
sailed in search, hoping that it might prove some civilised island on the coast of Asia.  Shortly
afterwards he altered his course east-south-east, following back the direction of the coast,
and thus did not discover his mistake in supposing Cuba to be a part of terra firma, an error
in which he continued to the day of his death.

Some time was spent in cruising about an archipelago of small and beautiful islands, which
has since afforded a lurking-place for piratical craft.

In attempting to reach the supposed land of Babique, he met with a contrary gale, which compelled
him to put about, when he made signals to the other vessels to do likewise.

The Pinta did not obey him, and when morning dawned was nowhere to be seen.  This circumstance
disturbed Columbus, who had reason to fear that Pinzon, jealous of his success, intended to
prosecute the discovery by himself, or to return to Spain with an account of the success of
the enterprise.

Finding that Pinzon did not rejoin him, he returned to Cuba, and continued for several days
sailing along the coast.  Again and again he was struck with the magnificence of the scenery
and size of the trees, out of a single trunk of which canoes were formed, capable of holding
one hundred and fifty people.  On the 5th of December he reached the eastern end of Cuba, and
then steering large, away from it, he discovered land to the south-east.  On approaching, he
saw high mountains towering above the horizon, and found that it was an island of great extent,
being Hagi or Hispaniola.

Again his native friends exclaimed, "Bohio!"--by which they meant to say that it was thickly
populated, though, as he understood the expression, that it abounded with gold.  He was struck
with the unrivalled beauty of its scenery.  On the following day he entered a harbour at the
western end, which he called Saint Nicholas.  It was deep and spacious, surrounded by trees,
many of them loaded with fruit.

Sailing again, he entered another harbour, called Port Concepcion, now known as the Bay of
Moustique.  Wishing to open an intercourse with the natives, he sent six well-armed men into
the interior.  The people fled, but the sailors captured a young female who was perfectly unclothed,--a
bad omen as to the civilisation of the island,--but an ornament of gold in her nose gave hope
that the precious metal might be found there.

The Admiral soothed her terror by presenting her with beads, brass rings,--hawks' bells, and
other trinkets, and sent her on shore clothed, accompanied by several of the crew and three
Indian interpreters.  She would, however, willingly have remained with the native women she
found on board.  The party were afraid of venturing to the village, and, having set her at
liberty, returned to the ship.

The following morning nine well-armed men, with an interpreter from Cuba, again landed and
approached a village containing a thousand houses, but the inhabitants had fled.  The interpreter,
however, overtook them, and telling them that the strangers had descended from the skies, and
went about the world making beautiful presents, they turned back to the number of a thousand,
approaching the Spaniards with slow and trembling steps, making signs of profound reverence.

While they were conversing another large party of Indians approached, headed by the husband
of the female captive, whom they brought in triumph on their shoulders.  The husband expressed
his gratitude for the magnificent presents bestowed on his wife.

The Indians, now conducting the Spaniards to their houses, set before them a banquet of cassava
bread, fish, roots, and fruits of various kinds.  They presented also numbers of tame parrots,
freely offering, indeed, whatever they possessed.

Delighted as they were with all they saw, the Spaniards still bitterly complained that they
found no signs of riches among the natives.  Nature abundantly supplying all they required,
they were without even a knowledge of artificial wants, and so unbounded was their hospitality,
that they were ready to bestow everything they possessed on their guests.  The fertile earth
producing all they required, they preferred to live in that Arcadian state of simplicity which
poets have delighted to picture.  Their fields and gardens were without hedges or divisions
of any sort.  They were kind to each other, and required no magistrates nor laws to keep them
in order.  Alas! how soon was this happy state of existence to be destroyed by the cruel, avaricious,
and profligate Spaniards.  Unlike their pious, high-minded, and sagacious chief, they resembled
the bloodhounds they were wont to let loose in chase of their victims.

How different might have been the fate of the islands had such men as the pilgrim fathers or
the enlightened Penn been the first to settle among them!  The bright light of true Christianity
might have beamed on their hearts, with all the advantages of civilisation, and far greater
happiness than they had hitherto enjoyed might have been their lot.  No blame can be attached
to Columbus, no slur can be cast on his fair fame. He had achieved a glorious undertaking in
discovering a new world, but on its inhabitants he had been thus the instrument of bringing
the direst of curses, and, instead of promulgating the faith he professed, the blackest disgrace
on the Christian name.

CHAPTER THREE.

FIRST VOYAGE OF COLUMBUS CONTINUED--A.D. 1492.

The Tortugas--Returns to Hispaniola--Picks up an Indian in a canoe on the way--The Indian's
report induces a cacique to visit the ships-- Friendly intercourse with other caciques--Farther
along the coast, an envoy from the great cacique Guacanagari visits the ships--The notary sent
to the cacique--His large, clean village--The Spaniards treated as superior beings--Cibao,
mistaken for Cipango, heard of--The ship of Columbus wrecked--Guacanagari's generous behaviour--Terror
of the Indians at hearing a cannon discharged--Delighted with hawks' bells-- Stores from the
wreck saved--A fort built with the assistance of the natives, and called La Natividad--The
cacique's friendship for Columbus--Abundance of gold obtained--A garrison of thirty men left
in the fort, with strict rules for their government--Guacanagari sheds tears at parting with
the Admiral--The Nina sails eastward--The Pinta rejoins him--Pinzon excuses himself--His treachery
discovered-- In consequence of it Columbus resolves to return to Spain--Pinzon's ill treatment
of the natives--Fierce natives met with--First native blood shed--The Indians notwithstanding
visit the ship--Columbus steers for Spain--Contrary winds--A fearful storm--The device of Columbus
for preserving the knowledge of his discoveries--The Azores reached-- Castaneda, Governor of
Saint Mary's--Crew perform a pilgrimage to the Virgin's shrine--Seized by the Governor--Caravel
driven out to sea-- Matters settled with Castaneda--Sails--Another tempest--Nearly lost-- Enters
the Tagus--Courteously received by the King of Portugal--Reaches Palos 15th of March, 1493--Enthusiastic
reception at Palos--Pinzon in the Pinta arrives--Dies of shame and grief--Columbus received
with due honour by Ferdinand and Isabella--Triumphal entrance into Barcelona--His discovery
excites the enterprise of the English.

After a brief stay among the happy and simple-minded natives, the weather becoming favourable,
Columbus again attempted to discover the island of Babique.  On his way he fell in with an
island, to which, on account of the number of turtles seen there, he gave the name of Tortugas.
Meeting with contrary winds, he returned to Hispaniola, and on the way fell in with an Indian
in a canoe.  Having taken the man and his frail barque on board, he treated him kindly and
set him on shore at Hispaniola, near a river known as Puerto de Paz.

The Indian gave so favourable a report of the treatment he had received, that a cacique in
the neighbourhood, and some of his people, visited the ships.  They were handsomer than any
yet met with, and of a gentle and peaceable disposition.  Several of them wore ornaments of
gold, which they readily exchanged for trifles.

Another young cacique shortly afterwards appeared, carried on a litter borne by four men, and
attended by two hundred of his subjects.  He was received on board, and, Columbus being at
dinner, he came down with two of his councillors, who seated themselves at his feet.  He merely
tasted whatever was given to him, and then sent it to his followers.

Dinner being over, he presented to the Admiral two pieces of gold, and a curiously-worked belt,
evidently the wampum still employed by the North American Indians as a token of peace.  Columbus,
in return, gave him a piece of cloth, several amber beads, coloured shoes, and, showing him
a Spanish coin with the heads of the King and Queen, endeavoured to explain to him the power
and grandeur of his sovereigns, as well as the standard of the cross; but these apparently
failed to have any effect on the mind of the savage chieftain.  Columbus also had a large cross
erected in the centre of the village, and, from the respect the Indians paid to it, he argued
that it would be easy to convert them to Christianity.

Again sailing on the 20th of December, the expedition anchored in the Bay of Acul.  Here the
inhabitants received them with the greatest frankness.  They appeared to have no idea of traffic,
but freely gave everything they possessed, though Columbus ordered that articles should be
given in exchange for all received.

Several caciques came off, inviting the Spaniards to their villages. Among them came an envoy
from an important chief named Guacanagari, ruling over all that part of the island.  Having
presented a broad belt of wampum and a wooden mask, the eyes, nose, and tongue of which were
of gold, he requested that the ships would come off the town where the cacique resided.  As
this was impossible, owing to a contrary wind, Columbus sent the notary of the squadron, with
several attendants.  The town was the largest and best built they had yet seen.  The cacique
received them in a large, clean square, and presented to each a robe of cotton, while the inhabitants
brought fruits and provisions of various sorts.  The seamen were also received into their houses,
and presented with cotton garments and anything they seemed to admire; while the articles given
in return were treasured up as sacred relics.

Several caciques had in the meantime visited the ships.  They mentioned a region, evidently
the interior, called Cibao, which Columbus thought must be a corruption of Cipango, and whose
chief he understood had banners of wrought gold, and was probably the magnificent prince mentioned
by Marco Polo.

As soon as the wind was fair, Columbus visited the chief, Guacanagari, the coast having been
surveyed by boats the previous day.  Feeling perfectly secure, although so near the coast,
he retired to his cabin. The helmsman handed over his charge to one of the ship's boys, and
failed to notice that breakers were ahead.  Suddenly the ship struck; the master and crew rushed
on deck.  Columbus, calm as usual, ordered the pilot to carry out an anchor astern.  Instead
of so doing, in his fright, he rowed off to the other caravel, about half a league to windward.
Her commander instantly went to the assistance of his chief. The ship had meantime been drifting
more and more on the reef, the shock having opened several of her seams.  The weather continued
fine, or she must at once have gone to pieces.

The Admiral, having gone on board the caravel, sent envoys to Guacanagari, informing him of
his intended visit and his disastrous shipwreck.  When the cacique, who lived a league and
a half off, heard of the misfortune, he shed tears, and sent a fleet of canoes to render assistance.
With their help the vessel was unloaded, the chief taking care that none of the effects should
be pilfered.  Not an article was taken; indeed, the people exhibited the greatest sympathy
with their guests, who were treated with the utmost hospitality.

Two days afterwards Guacanagari came on board the Nina to visit the Admiral, and, with tears
in his eyes, offered him all he possessed. While he was on board a canoe arrived with pieces
of gold, and, on observing his countenance light up, the cacique told him there was a place
not far off, among the mountains, where it could be procured in the greatest abundance.  He
called the place Cibao, which Columbus still confounded with that of Cipango.

Guacanagari, after dining on board, where he exhibited the utmost frankness, invited Columbus
to his village.  Here he had prepared an abundant banquet, consisting of coneys, fish, roots,
and various fruits. He afterwards conducted the Admiral to some beautiful groves, where a thousand
natives were collected to perform their national games and dances.

In return, the Admiral sent on board for a Castilian accustomed to the use of the Moorish bow
and arrows.  The cacique was greatly surprised at the skill with which the Castilian used his
weapon, and told him that the Caribs, who made frequent descents on his territory, were also
armed with bows and arrows.

Columbus promised his protection, and, to show his host the powerful means at his disposal,
ordered a heavy cannon and an arquebus to be discharged.  At the report the Indians fell to
the ground, as if they had been struck by a thunderbolt.  As they saw the shot shivering a
tree, they were filled with dismay, until Columbus assured them that these weapons should be
turned against their enemies.

The cacique now presented Columbus with a wooden mask, the eyes, ears, and other parts, of
gold; and he also placed a golden crown on his head, and hung plates of gold round his neck.
The natives, though willing to receive anything in exchange for gold, were chiefly delighted
with the hawks' bells, dancing and playing a dozen antics as they listened to the sound.  An
Indian gave even a handful of gold for one of the toys, and then bounded away, fearing that
the stranger might repent having parted so cheaply with such an inestimable a treasure.  The
shipwrecked Spaniards, delighted with their idle life on shore, expressed their wish to remain
on the island.  This, with the friendly behaviour of the natives, induced Columbus to agree
to their proposal.  He considered that they might explore the island, learn the language and
manners of the natives, and procure by traffic a large amount of gold.  He resolved also to
build a fortress for their defence, to be armed with the guns saved from the wreck.  With his
usual promptness he had the work commenced.

When Guacanagari heard that some of the Spaniards were to be left on the island for its defence
from the Caribs, he was overjoyed, as were his subjects, who eagerly lent their assistance
in building the fortress, little dreaming that they were assisting to place on their necks
the galling yoke of slavery.

While the work of the fortress was rapidly going on, Guacanagari treated the Admiral with princely
generosity.  As Columbus, on one occasion, was landing, the cacique met him, accompanied by
five tributary chiefs, each carrying a coronet of gold.  On arriving at his house, Guacanagari
took off his own crown and placed it on the head of the Admiral.  Columbus presented, in return,
a collar of fine coloured beads, his mantle of cloth, a pair of coloured boots, and placed
on his finger a large ring of silver, which the Indians valued far more than gold.  The cacique
also exerted himself to procure a great quantity of gold.

Columbus, by misunderstanding names and descriptions, formed the most magnificent idea of the
wealth of the interior of the island, and even in the red pepper which abounded he fancied
that he traced Oriental spices.  He was thus led to believe that the shipwreck was providential,
as, had he sailed away, he should not have heard of its vast wealth. What in some spirits would
have awakened a grasping and sordid cupidity to accumulate, immediately filled his vivid imagination
with plans of magnificent expenditure.

To the fortress, which was of some size, and sufficiently strong to repulse a naked and unwarlike
people, Columbus gave the name of La Navidad, in memory of having escaped shipwreck on Christmas
Day.  He considered it very likely to prove most useful in keeping the garrison themselves
in order, and to prevent them wandering about and committing acts of licentiousness among the
natives.

Of the numbers who volunteered he selected thirty-nine in all, among whom was a physician,
a ship's carpenter, a cooper, a tailor, and a gunner; the command being given to Diego de Arana,
notary and alguazil of the armament, with Pedro Gutierrez and Rodrigo de Escobedo as his lieutenants,
directing them to obtain all the information in their power.  He charged the garrison to be
especially circumspect in their intercourse with the natives,--to treat them with gentleness
and justice,--to be highly discreet in their conduct towards the Indian females, and, moreover,
not to scatter themselves, or on any account stray beyond the friendly territory of Guacanagari.

On the 2nd of January, 1493, Columbus bade farewell to the generous cacique and his chieftains,
commending those he left behind to their care.  To impress the Indians with an idea of the
warlike prowess of the white man, after a banquet he had given at his house, he ordered them
to engage in mock fights with swords, bucklers, crossbows, arquebuses, and cannon.

Guacanagari shed tears as he parted with Columbus, who, returning on board, two days afterwards
set sail, the garrison on shore answering the cheers of their comrades who were about to return
to their native land. The ship, being towed out of the harbour, they stood to the eastward,
but were detained for two days by a contrary wind.

On the 6th, a seaman aloft cried out that he saw the Pinta.  The certainty that he was right
cheered the heart of the Admiral and his crew.  In a short time she approached, and, as the
wind was contrary, Columbus put back to a little bay west of Monte Cristo, where he was followed
by the Pinta.

Pinzon endeavoured to excuse himself, but Columbus discovered that he had purposely separated,
and had gone to Hispaniola, where he had remained trading with the natives; collecting a considerable
quantity of gold, the greater part of which he retained, and the rest divided among the men
to secure his secret.

Columbus, however, knowing the number of friends the Pinzons had on board, repressed his indignation;
but so much was his confidence in his confederates impaired, that, instead of continuing his
explorations, as he hoped to have done when he first saw the Pinta, he resolved at once to
sail for Spain.

While obtaining wood and water for the voyage at a river flowing into the bay, so much gold
was perceived in the sand at its mouth that the name of Rio del Oro, or the Golden River, was
given to it.  At present it is called the Santiago.  Turtles of large size were found here,
and, as a proof how so sagacious a man as Columbus might deceive himself, he states that he
here saw three mermaids, who were very far from lovely, although they had traces of human countenances.
They were undoubtedly manatees or sea-cows.

Putting into the river where Pinzon had been trading, some of the natives complained that he
had violently carried off four men and two girls to be sold as slaves in Spain.

Discovering that such was the case, Columbus ordered that they should be restored immediately
to their homes, and, giving them numerous presents and clothing, he sent them on shore.

Proceeding on, they anchored in a deep gulf a little way beyond Cape Cabron.  The natives were
found to be of a ferocious aspect, hideously painted.  Their hair was long, tied behind, and
decorated with coloured feathers; some were armed with war-clubs; others had bows as long as
those used by English archers, with slender reed arrows pointed with bone or the teeth of a
fish.  Their swords were of palm wood, as hard and heavy as iron, not sharp, but broad, and
capable, with one blow, of cleaving through a helmet.

Columbus fancied that they must be Caribs, but an Indian on board assured him that the Caribbean
Islands were much farther off.  They made no attempt, however, at first, to molest the Spaniards.
One of them came on board the Admiral's ship.  Various presents having been given him, he was
sent again on shore in one of the boats.

As she approached, upwards of fifty savages, armed with bows, arrows, war-clubs, and javelins,
were seen lurking among the trees.  The Indian, however, speaking to them, they laid by their
arms, and parted with two of their bows to the Spaniards.  Suddenly, however, mistrusting their
visitors, they rushed back to where they had left their weapons, and returned with cords as
if to bind the Spaniards.  The latter on this immediately attacked them, wounded two, and put
the rest to flight, and would have pursued them had they not been restrained by the commander
of the boat.

This was the first time native blood, soon to flow so freely, was shed by the white man in
the New World.  It greatly grieved Columbus thus to see his efforts to maintain a friendly
intercourse frustrated.

Next day, notwithstanding the above occurrence, when a large party went on shore, the cacique
who ruled over the neighbourhood came down to meet them, and sent a wampum belt as a token
of amity.  The cacique, with only three attendants, without fear entered the boat, and was
conveyed on board the caravel.  Columbus highly appreciated this frank, confiding conduct,
and, having placed biscuits and honey and other food before his guests, shown them round the
ship, and made them several presents, he sent them back to the land highly gratified.  No other
interruption occurred to their friendly intercourse.  Four young Indians who came on board
gave such glowing accounts of the islands to the east, that Columbus prevailed on them to accompany
him as guides.  He also wished to visit two islands which he fancied to exist,--one inhabited
by Amazons, and the other by men; but a favourable breeze springing up for Spain, and observing
the gloom in the countenances of the seamen,-- knowing as he did also their insubordinate spirit,
and the leaky state of the ships, and that, should they founder, his glorious discovery would
be lost to the civilised world,--he deemed it wise to steer directly homewards.  The favourable
breeze, however, soon died away, and for the remainder of the voyage light winds from the eastward
prevailed.

The Pinta also sailed badly, her foremast being so defective that it could carry but little
sail.  In the early part of February, having run to about the thirty-eighth degree of north
latitude, they got out of the track of the trade winds, and once more were able to steer a
direct course.  The pilots, by the changes of their courses, at length got perplexed; but Columbus
kept so careful a reckoning that he felt sure of their position.  The two principal pilots
made out that they were one hundred and fifty leagues nearer Spain than he knew to be the case.
He, however, allowed them to remain in their error, that he alone might possess a knowledge
of the route to the newly-discovered countries.  By his calculation they were not far off from
the Azores.  On the 12th of February a strong gale with a heavy sea got up, and the next day
the wind and swell so increased that Columbus was aware that a heavy tempest was approaching.
It soon burst upon them with frightful violence, increasing still more on the 14th, the waves
threatening every moment to overwhelm their battered barks.  After laying to for three hours
they were compelled to scud before the wind.  During the darkness of the night the Pinta was
lost sight of.  The Admiral steered as well as he could to the north-east to approach the coast
of Spain, showing lights to the Pinta; but no answering signals were seen, and fears were entertained
that she had foundered.  The following day the tempest raged as furiously as before on the
helpless bark.  During the storm the ignorant and superstitious crew cast lots as to who should
perform pilgrimages to their respective saints, in which the Admiral, no less superstitious
than his men, joined.  Two of the lots fell on him.  Each man also made his private vow to
perform some pilgrimage, or other penitential rite.

The heavens, however, were deaf to their vows.  The storm increased, and the crew gave themselves
up for lost.  The Admiral took the wisest steps to preserve the ship, by ordering that the
empty casks should be filled with water, to ballast her better.  His mind all the time was
a prey to the most painful anxiety.  His fear was that the Pinta had already foundered, and
that his vessel would also go to the bottom.

An expedient occurred to him at this time by which, though he and his ships should perish,
the glory of his achievement might survive to his name, and its advantages be secured to his
sovereigns.  He wrote on a parchment a brief account of his voyage and discovery; then, having
sealed and directed it to the King and Queen, he wrapped it in a waxed cloth, which he placed
in the centre of a piece of wax, and, enclosing the whole in a large cask, threw it into the
sea.  He also enclosed a copy in a similar manner, placing the cask on the poop so that it
might float off should the vessel sink.

These precautions somewhat mitigated his anxiety.  Towards sunset a streak of clear sky appeared
in the west, the sign of finer weather.  It came, though the sea ran so high that little sail
could be carried.

At daybreak on the morning of the 15th the cry of "Land!" was raised. The transports of the
crew equalled those exhibited on first beholding the New World.  Various conjectures were offered
as to what land it was. Some thought it the rock of Cintra, others the island of Madeira, others
a portion of Spain.  Columbus, however, knew that it was one of the Azores, in possession of
the Portuguese.

On the evening of the 17th of February the vessel dropped her anchor off the island of Saint
Mary's, the most southern of the Azores, and at length the great navigator was enabled to enjoy
the first moments of sleep he had taken for many a day.

Next morning the inhabitants were astonished, on seeing the battered vessel, that she had been
able to live through the gale, which had, with unexampled fury, raged for fifteen days.  Three
seamen who had landed were persuaded to remain and give an account of their adventures.

After some time the Governor, Juan de Castaneda, who claimed an acquaintance with Columbus,
sent off fowls, bread, and various refreshments, apologising for not coming himself, on account
of the lateness of the hour.

On the following morning Columbus reminded his people of their vows, to go in procession to
the shrine of the Virgin at the first place where they should land.  The messengers who had
been kept on board were sent to make preparations, and a priest arrived at a small chapel dedicated
to the Virgin some little distance off.  One-half of the crew then landed and walked in procession,
barefooted and in their shirts, to the chapel, while the Admiral waited their return to perform
the same ceremony with the remainder.

Scarcely, however, had the first party begun their prayers than they were surrounded by a gang
of horse and foot from the village, and made prisoners.

As the hermitage could not be seen from the caravel, not being aware of what had taken place,
the Admiral feared that his boat had been wrecked, and accordingly, weighing anchor, he stood
in a direction to command a view of the chapel.

He now caught sight of a number of armed horsemen, who, dismounting, entered the boat, and
came towards the caravel.  He accordingly got ready to give them a warm reception, but they
approached in a pacific manner, and Castaneda himself, who was in the boat, asked leave to
come on board.

Columbus reproached him for his perfidy, to which he replied that he was only acting in accordance
with the orders of his sovereigns, so that Columbus began to fear that a war had broken out
between the two countries during his absence.  He had no time to ascertain the truth before
another heavy gale coming on, he was driven from his anchorage, and compelled to stand out to sea.

For two days the vessel remained in the greatest peril, short-handed as she was, being unable
to return to her anchorage at Saint Mary's.

As soon as she dropped anchor, a notary and two priests came off demanding to see his papers
on the part of Castaneda, who had sent them to assure him that if it should be found that he
really sailed in the service of the Spanish sovereigns, he would render him every assistance
in his power.

The notary and priest were satisfied with his letters of commission, and the following morning
the boat and seamen were sent back.  From the latter Columbus learnt the cause of Castaneda's
conduct.  The inhabitants had told them that the King of Portugal, jealous lest his expedition
should interfere with his discoveries in India, had directed his governors of islands and distant
ports to seize and detain him wherever he should be met with.

Having been detained two days longer at Saint Mary's in an endeavour to take in wood and ballast,
but being prevented by the heavy surf which broke upon the shore, he set sail on the 24th of
February.  After a fine run of two days the weather again became tempestuous, and there appeared
every probability of the ship foundering.

On the 3rd of March land was descried, and it was with the greatest difficulty that the ship
could be kept off the shore.  At daylight on the 4th the voyagers found themselves off the
rock of Cintra, a few miles from Lisbon.  Rather than risk another night at sea, Columbus determined
to hazard the chance of falling into the hands of the Portuguese.  The ship was accordingly
steered in and brought up opposite Rastello, at the mouth of the river Tagus.

The oldest mariners who came off assured Columbus that they had never known so temptestuous
a winter, and had been watching his vessel with the greatest anxiety since she had first been
seen.  He immediately dispatched a courier to the King and Queen of Spain with the tidings
of his discovery, and requested permission of the King of Portugal to go up to Lisbon, fearing
that the inhabitants of Rastello, when they heard of her rich freight, might be tempted to rob her.

The King of Portugal, who was some distance from the capital, at once invited Columbus to visit
him.  During the interview which ensued he endeavoured to conceal his vexation at having refused
the proposals which had been made him by the navigator.

His Court tried to persuade him that Columbus had visited countries over which, according to
the Pope's bull, he had the right to rule.  Some had the baseness to hint that Columbus should
be assassinated, and suggested that he should be embroiled in a quarrel, during which the project
might be accomplished.

The King, happily, had too much magnanimity to agree to so nefarious a measure.  He treated
Columbus with the greatest courtesy, and a large party of cavaliers escorted him back to his ship.

By the time Columbus reached her the weather had moderated, and, again setting sail, on the
15th of March, A.D. 1493, he entered the port of Palos, whence he had sailed on the 3rd of
August of the preceding year, having taken not quite seven months and a half to accomplish
this momentous maritime enterprise.

The enthusiastic reception he met with from the inhabitants of Palos can be imagined.  They
had given him and his companions up for lost.  Bells were rung and the shops shut; all business
was suspended; and the inhabitants came thronging to the ship to ascertain the fate of their
friends.  On landing, he went to the principal church, accompanied by a concourse of people,
to return thanks to God for the accomplishment of his enterprise.

As the Court was at Barcelona, he felt inclined to go there in his caravel, but, considering
her condition, he finally resolved to proceed by land.  That very evening, while the bells
were sending forth their peals of triumph, the Pinta, commanded by Martin Alonzo Pinzon, entered
the river.

Pinzon had been driven by the gale into the Bay of Biscay, and had reached the port of Bayonne.
Fancying that Columbus had perished, he had written to the sovereigns claiming credit to himself
for the accomplishment of the undertaking.  On hearing that Columbus had arrived before him,
his heart sank within him.  He made his way unobserved to his own house, and, on receiving
a reproachful letter from Ferdinand and Isabella, he took to his bed, and in a short time died
of deep chagrin on seeing Columbus receive all the honours he had himself hoped to obtain.

Columbus, having performed the journey to Barcelona in safety, was received with the greatest
possible respect by Ferdinand and Isabella, whose nobles and courtiers vied with each other
in endeavouring to do him honour.  His entrance into the city was like a Roman triumph.  The
courtiers and hidalgos, and a vast concourse of people, came forth to meet him.  Before him
were paraded the Indians, decked out according to their savage fashion, and after these were
borne various kinds of live parrots, stuffed birds and animals, and rare plants; while there
was a conspicuous display of Indian coronets, bracelets, and other decorations of gold.

Columbus followed on horseback, accompanied by a brilliant cavalcade of Spanish chivalry. 
The windows and balconies were crowded with the fair; the very roofs were covered with spectators.

The King and the kind Queen awaited his arrival seated on a throne, in a vast and splendid
saloon, under a rich canopy of brocade of gold.  They raised him as he attempted to kneel,
and had a seat placed for him near them,--a rare honour in so punctilious a Court.  He here
narrated his adventures, to which they listened with wrapt attention; and, when he retired
from the royal presence, he was attended by the whole Court to his residence.

Ferdinand and Isabella setting the example for many days, all the nobles of the land exerted
themselves to do him honour.  He modestly received all the attentions paid to him.

Not only Spain, but all the civilised nations of the earth rejoiced at the important discovery
achieved by Columbus.  In England especially it excited that spirit of discovery which was
ere long to add so greatly to her wealth and renown.

During his sojourn at Barcelona the sovereigns took every occasion to bestow on Columbus personal
marks of their high consideration. Frequently the King appeared on horseback, with Prince Juan
on one side and Columbus on the other.

To perpetuate in his family the glory of his achievement, a coat of arms was assigned him,
in which the royal arms--the castle and lion--were quartered with his proper bearings, which
were a group of islands surrounded by waves.

CHAPTER FOUR.

SECOND VOYAGE OF COLUMBUS--A.D. 1403.

Preparations for another voyage rapidly made--Foneseca appointed to superintend the expedition--Indians
brought home baptised--Fleet sails from Bay of Cadiz on the 25th of September, 1493--Steers
for the Canaries--Ordered to rendezvous at Navidad--Fine passage across the Atlantic--On Sunday,
3rd of November, a lofty island seen, and therefore called Dominica--The Antilles--Lands near
a Carib village--Pineapples first seen--Supposed cannibals--Diego Marques and eight men missing--
Ojeda goes in search of them--The missing party returns--Land at Santa Cruz--Caribs in a canoe
fiercely attack the Spaniards--Fleet comes off Porto Rico--A neat village visited--Fleet reaches
Hispamola--Invitations from a cacique to remain--A supposed Indian convert escapes--Two dead
bodies of white men discovered--Painful suspicions aroused--Fleet arrives off La Navidad at
night--Canoe comes off, and Columbus hears of the destruction of the settlement--Sails from
La Navidad and founds the town of Isabella--Expedition of Ojeda to the Golden Mountains--Ships
sent home--Proposal to exchange Caribs for cattle--A mutiny suppressed-- Diaz imprisoned--Columbus
makes an expedition into the interior--Forts built--Columbus proceeds on a voyage of discovery--Surveys
south coast of Cuba--Friendly meeting with natives--Enters the harbour of Jago de Cuba--First
sight of Jamaica, called by Columbus Santiago--Hostility of the natives--Attacked by the Spaniards--Bloodhounds
first used--Canoes formed of enormous trees.

We must briefly follow the adventures of Columbus to their termination. In spite of the efforts
of Don John, King of Portugal, to reap advantage from the discovery of Columbus, Ferdinand
and Isabella obtained from the Pope a bull, making over the newly-discovered lands and all
such others as might be discovered to the crown of Castile.  The utmost exertions were at once
made to fit out a second expedition.  The affairs of the New World were placed under the superintendence
of Juan Rodrigues de Foneseca, Archdeacon of Seville, who was finally appointed Patriarch of
the Indies.  He was a worldly man, malignant and vindictive.  He not only wronged the early
discoverers, but frequently impeded the progress of their enterprises.  Other men of similar
character were associated with him.

A royal order was issued that all ships in the ports of Andalusia, with their captains, pilots,
and crews, should be held in readiness to serve in the expedition.  Columbus and Foneseca were
authorised to freight or purchase any of those vessels they might think proper, and overcome
them by force if refused.  As the conversion of the heathen was professed to be the grand object
of this expedition, twelve zealous and able ecclesiastics were directed to accompany it.  At
their head was Bernado Boyle, one of those subtle politicians of the cloister who in those
days glided into all temporal concerns.

The Indians Columbus had brought to Barcelona were baptised, the King, Queen, and Prince Juan
officiating as sponsors; and great hopes were entertained that on their return to their native
country they would facilitate the introduction of Christianity among their countrymen.  One
of them, who remained in the household of Prince John, died not long afterwards, the first
of his nation who entered heaven, according to the notion of a Spanish historian.

The Spanish monarchs were anxious for the speedy departure of the expedition, on account of
the proceedings of King John of Portugal, who had prepared a large armament for the avowed
object of an expedition to Africa, its real destination being to seize upon the newly-discovered
countries.  Before, however, the Portuguese vessels sailed, the King was compelled to sign
a treaty by which the Papal line of partition was moved to three hundred and seventy leagues
west of the Cape de Verde Islands.  The Spaniards might appropriate all countries to the west
of the line, the Portuguese to the east.  But no one appears to have reflected that they must
ultimately meet at the antipodes.

The Spanish fleet, consisting of three large ships of heavy burden, and fourteen caravels,
large and small, was rapidly got ready.  The number of persons permitted to embark had been
limited to a thousand, but so many volunteers applied, that the number was increased to twelve
hundred, among whom were numerous cavaliers of the best families, eager to acquire honour or
obtain the gold supposed to abound in the Indies.

The best pilots of Spain, husbandmen, miners, carpenters, and other mechanics, were engaged
for the projected colony; horses, mules, domestic animals of all kinds were shipped, as well
as grain, seeds, vines, sugar-canes, and saplings, and vast quantities of merchandise, consisting
of trinkets, beads, hawks' bells, and looking-glasses.

At dawn on the 25th of September the fleet set sail from the Bay of Cadiz, and keeping wide
of the coast of Portugal, stood south-west for the Canaries, where it arrived on the ist of
October.  After touching at the Grand Canary, Columbus anchored on the 5th at Gomera, where
he obtained a supply of water, and also purchased calves, goats, sheep, eight hogs, and a number
of domestic fowls, these latter the progenitors of those now found in abundance in the New
World.  By sealed instructions the commanders were ordered in case of separation to rendezvous
in the harbour of La Navidad, the residence of the cacique Guacanagari.

After leaving Gomera Columbus steered considerably more to the southward than in his first
voyage, hoping to fall in with the islands of the Caribs.

Being in the region of the trade winds, the breeze continued fair and steady, while the sea
was perfectly smooth.  As October drew on, they were visited by showers and a storm, lasting,
however, only four hours. They were cheered during it by observing the lights of Saint Elmo,
which the ignorant mariners believed to be the body of the saint himself holding lighted tapers
as an assurance of safety.

How different was this voyage to the former!  Then tears and wailing accompanied the unwilling
seamen on board, and often and often, their hearts failing them, they desired to turn back.
Now one and all pressed on, eager to witness the wonders of the New World.  On the evening
of Saturday, the 2nd of November, Columbus was convinced, by the colour of the sea and other
signs, that he was drawing near the land, and accordingly ordered a vigilant watch to be kept
during the night.

On Sunday, at dawn, a lofty island was seen to the west, and as the ships glided on, others
rose to sight covered with forests, while flights of parrots and other tropical birds passed
from one to the other.  To the first island seen, on account of the day on which it was discovered,
Columbus gave the name of Dominica, or Sunday Island.  On the whole group the appellation of
The Antilles was bestowed, because a group so-called was supposed to exist off the coast of
Asia, and Columbus now fully believed that he had arrived at it, and that the mainland was
to be found at no great distance farther west.

Six beautiful islands were seen during the day, to one of which he gave the name of Marigalante,
the name of his ship.  It was overspread with trees, some in full bloom, others laden with
unknown fruits.

Sailing on to a larger island with a volcanic peak in the centre, they saw a cataract, of prodigious
height, descending from the mountain-side. The Admiral called this island Guadaloupe, in fulfilment
of a promise to the monks of the convent of Guadaloupe in Estremadura to call some newly-discovered
place after it.

Landing here, the Spaniards visited a village, the inhabitants of which fled, some leaving
their children behind.  These were soothed by binding hawks' bells and trinkets round their
arms.  The huts were formed with the trunks of trees, interwoven with twigs and branches, and
thatched with palm-leaves.  They were square, and each had its portico, one of which was decorated
with images of serpents tolerably well carved in wood.  Hammocks of cotton netting were hung
up, and their utensils were formed of calabashes or earthenware.  There were great quantities
of cotton and many bows and arrows, as also domestic geese and large parrots of blue, green,
white, and scarlet plumage.

Here the Spaniards first met with the anana, or pineapple, with the fragrance and flavour of
which they were delighted.  In another house was the sternpost of a vessel, probably part of
a wreck driven across from the coast of Africa.  The voyagers, however, were struck with horror
at the sight of what they took to be human bones and skulls, convincing them that the island
was inhabited by Caribs, supposed to be cannibals.

Leaving this spot, Columbus sailed some miles along the coast.  The boat landing succeeded
in taking and bringing off a boy and several women. From them he understood that this was one
of the islands of the Caribs, and that it was their custom to make descents on the neighbouring
islands, in order to carry off the youngest and best-looking women, and to murder and eat the men.

He had just gained this information when it was reported to him that Diego Marques, the captain
of one of the caravels, and eight men were missing.  They had landed in the morning, and strayed
into the woods. The night passed away, and they did not appear.  The next morning parties were
sent in quest of them, each with a trumpeter to sound calls, and guns were fired from the ships.

The searching parties found, as they supposed, human limbs suspended from the beams of houses,
and some declared that they saw the head of a young man recently killed, while parts of his
body were roasting before a fire.

The natives were seen on shore, looking with wonder at the ships.  When the boats approached,
they fled to the woods.  Several women, however, came off, and some were captured.  Columbus
ordered that they should be decorated with hawks' bells and other baubles, and sent on shore
to entice off the men.  They soon, however, returned to the boats stripped of their ornaments,
imploring to be taken on board again.  The greater portion of the male inhabitants were, they
informed the Spaniards, on a cruise in search of prisoners and booty.

Anxious to continue his course to Hispaniola, Columbus was much annoyed at the absence of the
wanderers.  At length Alonzo de Ojeda, a brave young cavalier, offered to go in search of them.
Ojeda and his party had great difficulty in making their way through the tangled forest.  In
vain they sounded their trumpets and shot off their arquebuses.  No reply was received, and
they returned on board without tidings of the stragglers.

Several days passed, and the fleet was about to sail, when the missing ones appeared on the
beach, their haggard looks showing how much they had suffered.

They had been lost in the trackless forest, too dense to allow them to see any distance ahead,
until they had reached the sea-shore, keeping along which they had made their way to the ships.

Leaving Guadaloupe on the 10th, Columbus passed Mont Serrat and Antigua, and, the weather becoming
boisterous, anchored off an island, to which he gave the name of Santa Cruz.  Here a boat was
sent on shore, and the crew visited a village, deserted by the men, but secured a few women
and boys, most of them captives from other islands.  On returning they saw a canoe, the people
in which--two of whom were women--were so entranced at the sight of the ships that the boat
got close up before they perceived it.  The Indians now attempted to escape, but, finding their
retreat cut off, they plied their bows and arrows so rapidly that two Spaniards were wounded,
the women fighting as fiercely as the men.  Though the canoe was upset, the savages still,
while swimming, discharged their arrows at their foes.  They were, however, captured and brought
on board, some of them wounded.

One of them was evidently their Queen.  She was accompanied by her son, a young man strongly
made, with a frowning brow and a lion's face.  The hair of these savages was long and coarse,
and their eyes were encircled with paint, so as to give them a hideous expression.

Though captives in chains, they still retained their defiant air.  They were afterwards carried
prisoners to Spain.  One of the Spaniards died of a wound from a poisoned arrow shot by one
of the women.

After this Columbus reached a group of upwards of fifty small islands, to which the name of
Saint Ursula and the Eleven Thousand Virgins was given.  Continuing his course, he came off
a beautiful island, covered with forests and indented with fine havens.  It is now known by
the name of Porto Rico.  This was the island from which most of the captives who had fled to
the ships had been taken by the Caribs.

After running for a whole day along this beautiful coast, the squadron anchored in a bay at
the west end, abounding in fish.

On landing they found an Indian village constructed round a common square like a market-place,
with one large and well-built house in it. A wide road led thence to the sea-shore, fenced
on either side.

The whole place had an air of great neatness.  Not a human being, however, was to be seen,
the natives having concealed themselves.

After remaining here two days Columbus stood for Hispaniola.  This ended his cruise among the
Caribbean Islands, the inhabitants of which he described as cannibals, and the most warlike
people hitherto met with.

On the 22nd of November the squadron came off the eastern end of Hispaniola, or Hayti, and
the sailor who had died of his wound was here sent on shore to be buried.

Several natives came off with a message from the cacique of the neighbourhood inviting Columbus
to land, and promising great quantities of gold, but, anxious to reach La Navidad, he continued
his course.  The next place he put into was Las Flechas, where he landed one of the young Indians,
who it was supposed had been converted to Christianity, handsomely apparelled and loaded with
trinkets.  But the youth either forgot his promises or was murdered on account of his finery,
as nothing more was heard of him.

Only one young Indian, who had been sent by Guacanagari, and who, having been to Spain, had
been baptised and named after the Admiral's brother, Diego Colon, remained on board, and he
continued always devoted to the Spaniards.

On the 25th Columbus anchored in the harbour of Monte Cristo, wishing to form a settlement
in the neighbourhood of the stream to which he had before given the name of the Golden River.

Near this, on the green banks of a rivulet, the bodies of a man and boy were found, the former
with a cord of Spanish grass about his neck, his arms extended and tied by the wrists to a
stake in the form of a cross.

It was impossible, from the state of decay in which they were found, to ascertain whether they
were European or Indians.  Painful doubts, however, were raised, and the following day two
other bodies were discovered, one of which was evidently the corpse of a white man.

Gloomy forebodings were now raised as to the fate which might have befallen Arana and his garrison.
The frank and fearless conduct, however, of the natives who came off to the ships somewhat
allayed the suspicions of Columbus.  He sailed on, hoping to find the greater part of the garrison
alive, until he arrived off the harbour of La Navidad, late on the evening of the 27th.  Two
guns were fired, but no reply was received.  While waiting in dismal suspense for the morning,
about midnight a canoe approached the fleet; but the people in it would not come on board until
they perceived the Admiral standing on the deck of his ship, when they came up the side without
hesitation.  One of them was a cousin of the cacique Guacanagari.  He brought a present of
two masks ornamented with gold.

To the inquiries of Columbus as to what had become of the garrison, the Indians replied that
several had died of sickness, others had fallen in a quarrel among themselves, and others had
removed to different parts of the island, where they had married native wives.  He added that
Guacanagari had been attacked by the fierce cacique of the Golden Mountains of Cibao, who had
wounded him in battle and burnt his village, and that he still remained ill of his wound in
a neighbouring hamlet. Columbus was greatly relieved on finding that the cacique and his people
still remained faithful, and he hoped that some of the Spaniards scattered about the country,
on hearing of his arrival, would quickly hasten on board.

In the morning, however, not a canoe was to be seen.  The inhabitants, too, kept out of the
way.  A boat was therefore sent on shore.  On landing, the crew hastened to the fortress. 
It was a ruin.  The palisades were beaten down, and the whole presented the appearance of having
been sacked, burnt, and destroyed.

Columbus, on visiting the ruins the next morning, discovered no dead bodies, but broken utensils
and torn vestments were found scattered here and there among the grass.

In vain cannon and arquebuses were fired.  Proceeding along the coast in a boat for about a
league, Columbus came to a hamlet, the inhabitants of which had fled with their goods.  In
their houses, however, were found European articles, such as stockings, pieces of cloth, and
a Moorish robe.  While he was absent the bodies of eleven Europeans were discovered buried
in different places, evidently some time dead, as grass had grown over their graves.

At length the Indians, recovering from their alarm, came up to the Spaniards, and from them
the fate of the garrison was in some measure ascertained.

With the exception of Arana and two or three others, the people left behind had disobeyed all
the orders given by Columbus.  The simple natives soon discovered that the beings they had
at first worshipped as gods were gross sensualists, who carried off their wives and daughters,
and possessed themselves of their gold and property by fraud and violence.

In vain Arana interposed his authority.  His lieutenants deserted him and set off on an expedition
to the mines of Cibao, where they were captured by Caonabo and put to death.  Others, abandoning
the fortress, lived carelessly about the neighbourhood, and Caonabo burst upon the fortress
while the residue of the garrison were asleep, and, setting it on fire, massacred some, while
others fled to the sea and were drowned.

Guacanagari and his people had fought faithfully in defence of their guests, but were easily
routed, and the cacique being wounded, his village was burnt to the ground.

Columbus afterwards visited the unfortunate Guacanagari, who received him in the same friendly
spirit as before; but Father Boyle and others declared their belief that he was acting a treacherous
part, and advised, when he afterwards returned the Admiral's visit, that he should be detained.
Columbus, however, rejected the counsel of his followers as contrary to sound policy and honourable
faith.  The cacique, seeing that he was mistrusted, took his departure, and for long kept out
of the way of the Spaniards.

Finding that this was not a suitable place for a settlement, Columbus weighed anchor on the
7th of December, but in consequence of adverse weather he put into a harbour about ten leagues
east of Monte Cristo. He was here struck by the advantages of its spacious harbour, there being
also two rivers watering a green and beautiful plain, while the soil appeared to be fertile,
and excellent fish were found.  It was also at no great distance from the mountains of Cibao.

It being considered, therefore, that no situation more favourable for the projected colony
could be found, the troops and labourers were landed with their provisions, articles for traffic,
guns, ammunition, and live stock of all sorts, and an encampment was formed round a sheet of water.

Streets and squares were projected; a church, public storehouse, and a residence for the Admiral
were commenced.  These were built of stone. The other houses were constructed of wood, plaster,
and reeds; and for a short time every one exerted himself with the utmost zeal.

To the first Christian city in the New World thus founded Columbus gave the name of Isabella,
in honour of his royal patroness.  Sickness, however, soon broke out among the colonists, several
died, and even Columbus was confined for many weeks to his bed.

Notwithstanding his illness, he continued to give directions, superintending the building of
the city and the management of the fleet. His mind, however, was oppressed with the thought
that, in consequence of the destruction of the fortress, he should be compelled to send back
the ships empty, instead of laden with gold and spices, to the great disappointment of the
sovereigns.  Before dispatching them, therefore, he sent Ojeda, at the head of an expedition,
to the Golden Mountains, to try and obtain some of the precious metal.  Another young cavalier
was also sent away on a similar expedition, and both returned with favourable reports as to
the inexhaustible wealth of the district. Thus, with more satisfaction than he had expected,
Columbus was able to send back the ships to Spain.  He recommended various persons to the notice
of the sovereigns, to whom he sent a petition for provisions, wine, medicine, clothing, arms,
horses, to be dispatched to the colony with all speed.  He sent also the men, women, and children
taken in the Caribbean Islands, recommending that they should be carefully instructed in the
Spanish language and the Christian faith.  In his ignorant zeal for promulgating that faith,
he proposed to establish an exchange of the cannibal pagans as slaves, against live stock to
be furnished to the colony, fancying that these slaves would be thus converted to the Catholic
faith.

The sovereigns, however, did not agree with his ideas, but ordered that the Caribs should be
converted like the rest of the islanders.

The city of Isabella having made considerable progress, the church being open for service,
Columbus prepared to lead an expedition to the mountains of Cibao.

Jealousy of Columbus' superior merits and the rewards he had received had been for some time
rankling in the hearts of some of his officers. As he was about to set off on his expedition,
a mutiny was designed, but discovered before it broke out, and the leader, Bernal Diaz, was
confined on board one of the ships, to be sent to Spain for trial.

Columbus now commenced the proposed expedition, leaving his brother Don Diego in command of
the city and the ships.  He was well received by the natives wherever he went, and was fully
satisfied that the region was prolific in gold.  To secure it he built a fortress called Saint
Thomas, to the command of which he appointed Pedro Margarite, and garrisoned it with fifty-six men.

Delighted with all he had seen, Columbus returned to Isabella on the 29th of March.  Great
progress had been made, and many of the seeds had already sprung up, bearing fruit.  Unfortunately,
however, bread had become scarce, and there was no means of grinding wheat.  Disease also had
attacked the settlers, and many persons of all ranks had died.  He was, however, anxious to
proceed on his voyage of discovery, and supposing that he could trust his subordinates, he
left ample instructions for their conduct.  He directed Margarite, with a strong force, to
explore the province of Cibao, while Ojeda was to assume the command of Saint Thomas.  One
of the objects of the expedition was to secure the persons of any chiefs who had exhibited
hostile feelings towards the Spaniards.  Several were thus captured and sent in chains to Isabella.
At length Columbus, satisfied that the colony would go on well, set sail, intending to visit
the coast of Cuba at the point where he had abandoned it, and thence to explore it on the south
side.  He, it must be remembered, supposed it to be the extreme end of Asia, and that by following
its shores he must at length arrive at Cathay, and those other rich countries described by
Mandeville and Marco Polo.

Having visited La Navidad, where Guacanagari kept out of the way, he continued his course westward,
until he reached the port of Saint Nicholas, whence he beheld the extreme point of Cuba.  Having
crossed the channel, he sailed along the southern coast of that island for a distance of twenty
leagues, until he entered a harbour, which from its size he called Puerto Grande.  Going on
shore, he arrived at some cottages, where, although the inhabitants had fled, great quantities
of fish, utias, and iguanas were found, some hung up, others roasting before the fires.  The
Spaniards, who had long been fasting, satisfied their appetites on the food, and then set out
to explore the country. On their way they saw a party of Indians, collected on the top of a
rock, looking down upon them with astonishment.

Though most of the natives ran off, one remained, whose apprehensions were quickly dispelled
by the friendly way the young Lucayan interpreter spoke to him.  Going after his companions,
he soon brought them back. They assured Columbus that he was welcome to the food which had
been consumed; but he, with his usual liberality, directed that ample compensation should be
made to them.

The next harbour in which he brought up he called Saint Jago de Cuba. Here he was treated with
the usual simple hospitality of the natives. Wherever he went he inquired for gold, and the
natives invariably pointed to the south, intimating that the country abounded with gold in
that direction.

He therefore, without delay, steered in search of this reported island. He had not sailed many
leagues before the summits of lofty mountains were seen rising above the horizon.  As he approached
the island he was struck with the beauty of its scenery, the majesty of its forests, the fertility
of its valleys, and the number of its villages.

In a short time seventy canoes filled with savages, gaily-painted, and decorated with feathers,
paddled off a league from the shore, uttering loud yells, and brandishing lances of pointed
wood.  They were quickly soothed, however, by the interpreter, and a few gifts bestowed upon
them, so that they did not molest the ship.

Coasting westward, Columbus, finding a sheltered harbour, made preparations for careening the
ship, which leaked.  As he was entering, the boats sounding ahead, two canoes came up, filled
with Indians, who hurled their darts; but wishing to avoid any act of hostility, he ordered
the boats to return and, standing on, came to an anchor.

Directly afterwards the whole beach was covered with savages, painted chiefly with black, and
all wearing coronets of feathers.  They showed their hostile intentions by hurling their javelins
towards the ship, making the shores ring with their war-whoops.

As further forbearance might have been mistaken for cowardice, the Admiral sent a boat on shore
full of well-armed men, who let fly a volley of arrows from their crossbows, wounding several
Indians, and throwing the rest into confusion.  They then sprang on shore and let loose a dog,
who pursued them with sanguinary fury.  This was the first time bloodhounds had been used against
the natives, afterwards to be employed with such cruel effect by the Spaniards in their Indian
wars.

Columbus then landed and took formal possession of the island, which he called Santiago, but
it has retained its original Indian name of Jamaica.

Notwithstanding this unpleasant commencement, the natives soon entered into a friendly intercourse
with their visitors.  Columbus was struck with the appearance of their canoes, which were carved
and painted, many of them being of large size, formed of the trunk of a single tree.  He measured
one, which was ninety-six feet long and eight broad, hollowed out of a species of mahogany-tree.

He now coasted along the northern shore of Jamaica, the natives everywhere coming off and trading
without fear.  At the last place where he touched in Jamaica a young Indian came off and begged
the Spaniards to take him to their country.  Notwithstanding the tears and supplications of
his friends, he persisted in his request, and Columbus ordered that he should be received on
board and treated with kindness.

As the wind at the western end of Jamaica was found to be contrary, Columbus resolved to return
to Cuba, and not to leave it until he had explored its coast sufficiently to determine whether
it was terra firma or an island.

CHAPTER FIVE.

SECOND VOYAGE OF COLUMBUS CONTINUED--A.D. 1494.

Again off Cuba--The numerous keys--Inhabitants hide--Sees a canoe-- Curious mode of fishing--Intercourse
with the friendly cacique of Ornofay--Believes that he is approaching Asia--The natives welcome
the strangers--Sailing west, the Spaniards land near some mountains--The archer's report of
white-robed natives--Columbus believes that he shall soon reach the Indian Ocean--Error as
to the extent of Cuba--Returns eastward--Visited by a cacique and his venerable minister--Stands
across to Jamaica--Coasts along it--A cacique with his family come off to the ships requesting
to be taken to Spain--The squadron stands across to Hispaniola--Natives show signs of hostility,
but become friendly-- Columbus struck down with illness--Carried to Isabella--His brother Bartholomew
meets him--Efforts to improve the colony--Traitorous designs formed against Columbus--Accusations
sent home--Aguado sent out to investigate his conduct--Columbus resolves to return to Spain--A
rich gold-mine discovered--Sets sail--Detained by contrary winds--Puts into Guadaloupe--Attacked
by Amazons--Huts plundered--Some of the Amazons captured--Again sails--Prolonged passage--Spaniards
propose to kill the prisoners--Prevented by Columbus--The vessels reach Cadiz--Finds a squadron
about to sail for Isabella--Honourably received by the sovereigns.

Standing across to Cuba, Columbus reached Cabo de la Cruz, near which, landing, he was cordially
received by the cacique and his subjects, who had long since heard of him.  The Admiral endeavoured
to ascertain from the cacique whether Cuba was an island or a continent.  The reply was such
as to induce him to believe that it was the latter.

Meeting with a storm, fortunately of short duration, he soon found himself among a labyrinth
of keys and small islands, so numerous that it was impossible to count them.  To these he gave
the name of The Queen's Gardens.  At first he thought of leaving this archipelago to the right,
and standing out to sea; but he recollected that Sir John Mandeville and Marco Polo had mentioned
that the coast of Asia was fringed with islands to the number of several thousands, and persuading
himself that he was among that cluster, he hoped soon to arrive at the dominion of the Grand Khan.

The weather became unfavourable, adding greatly to the difficulties of navigation.  These islands
were generally uninhabited, but on the 22nd of May he came to one to which he gave the name
of Santa Marta.  Here was a large village abandoned by its inhabitants.

Quantities of fish were found in their dwellings, as also domesticated parrots, scarlet cranes,
and some dumb dogs, which they fattened as an article of food.  One day a number of natives
were seen in a canoe, occupied in fishing.  They employed a small fish, tied by the tail, the
flat head of which was furnished with numerous suckers, by which it attached itself so firmly
to any object as to be torn to pieces rather than abandon its hold.  In this way the Spaniards
witnessed the taking of a tortoise of enormous size.  The same mode of fishing is said to be
employed on the eastern coast of Africa.  The natives led the Admiral to suppose that the sea
was full of islands south and west, and that Cuba ran to the west without any termination.

Having extricated himself from this archipelago, Columbus steered for a mountainous part of
Cuba, and landing at a large village, he was received with the same kindness which invariably
distinguished its inhabitants.  He found them mild, hospitable, and pacific; even the animals
were tamer as well as larger and better than those seen elsewhere.  Here stock doves were brought
to him, whose crops were found to contain several spices.  The cacique told him that the name
of his province was Ornofay, and that farther on to the west was the province of Mangon, whose
inhabitants would give him more ample information.  He was struck by the sound of the name.
It resembled that of Mangi, the richest province of the Grand Khan bordering the ocean.  He
understood the Indians to say that it was inhabited by people who had tails, and wore garments
to conceal them.  He recollected that Sir John Mandeville had recorded a story to the same
effect as current among certain naked tribes, who could not conceive that people would wear
clothes unless to conceal some defect.  He flattered himself, therefore, that he should soon
come to the rich province of Mangi and the long-robed inhabitants of the empire of Tartary.
He therefore sailed on, animated by one of the pleasing illusions of his imagination, along
a coast where, for thirty-five leagues, the navigation is unembarrassed by banks or islands.
The shores were thickly populated.  As the vessels glided by, the natives came off in their
canoes to offer fruits and other productions of the land.  Often too the sound of their loud
music could be heard, as they celebrated the arrival of the white men.

It is sad to think that this whole district was soon depopulated, the simple inhabitants destroyed
by the ruthless hand of the cruel and bigoted Spaniard.  Again the vessels were entangled among
sand-banks, and the water appeared as white as milk.  This appearance was produced by fine
sand raised from the bottom by the agitation of the waves and currents, but the seamen, unable
to account for it, entreated that they might return to the east.  Columbus, however, would
not consent to relinquish his voyage, believing, as he did, that he was on the eve of a brilliant
discovery.  The caravel was sent ahead to explore.  Only by the greatest caution, toil, and
peril did he succeed in making his way through the narrow channels.

At length, with a fair wind, he steered towards some mountains seen rising close to the coast,
and came to an anchor near a beautiful grove of palm-trees.  Here a party was sent on shore
to obtain wood and water. While they were thus employed an archer, who had gone into the forest
with his crossbow in search of game, came hurrying back, declaring that he had seen, through
an open glade, a man in a long white dress, two others following in white tunics reaching to
their knees, their complexions as fair as those of Europeans.  Behind these appeared many more,
to the number of thirty, armed with clubs and lances.  They gave no signs, he confessed, of
hostile intentions, the man in the long white dress alone advancing.

The watering party having no wish to encounter so many armed men, hastened back to the ship.
Columbus, on hearing the story, was fully persuaded that they were the clothed inhabitants
of Mangon.

The following day he sent a strong force to penetrate into the interior. They, however, found
it impossible to get far on account of the matted grass and creeping vegetation, and at length
returned, wearied and exhausted, to the ships.  The next day another party was dispatched,
but they came back, some declaring that they had seen the tracks of a lion, others of a griffon.
Probably the marks were produced by alligators, while the supposed white-robed natives were
no doubt tall white cranes, of which the bold archer had suddenly come in sight.  The only
inhabitants seen on the coast were perfectly naked.  Columbus attributed this circumstance
to their being mere fishermen, and supposed that the civilised regions lay in the interior.

For several days Columbus continued exploring the coast, until he perceived that it took a
bend to the south-west.  This accorded with the descriptions given by Marco Polo of the remote
coasts of Asia.  He was now sure that he was on that part of the Asiatic continent beyond the
limits of the Old World laid down by Ptolemy, and that by continuing his course he should arrive
at the point where this range of toast terminated in the Aurea Chersonesus of the ancients.
Doubling this, he would emerge into the seas bordered by the luxurious nations of the East.
Stretching across the Gulf of the Ganges, he might continue on to the Straits of Babel Mandel,
and arrive on the shores of the Red Sea. Thence he might make his way by land to Jerusalem,
taking ship at Joppa, and traverse the Mediterranean to Spain, or sail round the whole coast
of Africa, and thus circumnavigate the globe.

These notions, though not his enthusiasm, were shared by many of the able navigators on board;
but they considered the vessels, strained and leaky, with rigging worn out, totally inadequate
to the undertaking.  Of this Columbus himself became convinced, and after exploring the coast
for four days longer, and finding it still trending to the south-west, all declared that it
was impossible so extensive a continuity of land should belong to a mere island.

That no one might afterwards blame him for abandoning the enterprise, he made each pilot and
master sign a document expressing his opinion on the subject, and as he had no other opportunity
of verifying this idea, he died in the belief that Cuba was the extremity of the Asiatic coast.

From this point, escaping numerous perils, he now again steered eastward, until on the 7th
of July he anchored in the mouth of a fine river, intending to give the crews rest and recreation
after their confinement of two months on board.  He was here visited by the cacique and his
venerable minister of fourscore years, who brought a string of beads, to which he attached
a mystic value, and a calabash of a delicate kind of fruit.  These he presented in token of amity.

The people also brought utias, large pigeons, bread, and rich fruits; indeed, they and the
chief cacique received him with mingled demonstrations of joy and reverence.

In all remarkable places Columbus visited he erected crosses in conspicuous situations.  Here
a large one of wood was elevated on the bank of a river.  Mass was then performed, and after
it was concluded, the old counsellor approached, and expressed his satisfaction that the strangers
thus gave thanks to God.

"Be not vainglorious," he added, "at all you have accomplished.  Know that there are two places
to which the souls of men go: the one dismal, foul, and dark, prepared for those who have been
unjust and cruel; the other pleasant and full of delight for such as have promoted peace on
earth.  Beware, then, that you wrongfully hurt no man, and do no harm to those who have done
no harm to thee."

The Admiral, greatly moved, assured him that he rejoiced to hear his doctrine respecting the
future state, and told him that he had been sent by his sovereigns to teach them the true religion,
and to help them subdue their enemies the cannibals, and therefore that all peaceable men might
look to him as their protector.

The old man then offered to embark with the Admiral, seized with a desire to visit the wonderful
country from which he and his followers came, and only with great reluctance, moved by the
lamentations of his wife and children, would he abandon his project.

After remaining several days here, Columbus put to sea; but unable to fetch Hispaniola, stood
over to Jamaica, intending to finish its circumnavigation.  The inhabitants came off, exhibiting
the most friendly disposition whenever the vessels neared the shore, and Diego Colon, the interpreter,
never failed to expatiate on the wonders he had seen in Spain, and the prowess of the Spaniards
who had defeated the dreaded Caribs.

As the ships were one day standing along the coast under easy sail, with a light wind, three
canoes came off.  In the largest, handsomely carved and painted, sat a cacique, his wife, two
daughters, two sons, and his five brothers.  One of the daughters, eighteen years of age, was
beautiful in form and countenance, and though destitute of clothing, was of modest demeanour.
In the prow stood the standard-bearer, clad in a mantle of variegated feathers, with a tuft
of gay plumes on his head, while he bore in his hand a fluttering white banner.  Two Indians,
with caps of feathers, their faces painted, beat upon drums, while two others, with caps of
green feathers, blew their trumpets of black wood ingeniously carved.  There were six others
in caps of white feathers, who appeared to be guards to the cacique.

Having arrived alongside the Admiral's ship, he came on board with all his train.  He wore
on his head a band of small green stones, joined in front by a large jewel of gold; two plates
of gold were suspended to his ears; to a necklace of white beads hung a large metal plate,
resembling gold, in the form of a fleur de lys, while a girdle of variegated stones completed
his costume; though his wife and daughters, with the exception of girdles, to which were suspended
tablets of coloured stones, were unadorned.

The chief, warmly greeting the Admiral, told him that his object in coming was to accompany
him to Spain, to do homage to the King and Queen.  Columbus, knowing the dangers that the simple
savage and his people would be exposed to, was touched with compassion, and determined not
to take them from their native land.  He therefore told him that as he had many places to visit,
he could not take him then, but would at some future time fulfil his desire.  Reluctantly the
cacique and his family re-embarked in his canoe and returned to the shore, while the ships
continued their cruise.

Columbus now stood across to Hispaniola.  On sending a boat on shore near a large village,
the inhabitants issued forth with bows and arrows, while others came provided with cords to
bind their expected prisoners. These were the natives of the eastern province.  Their hostility,
however, was only in appearance, for directly the crew landed they threw aside their arms,
and readily brought provisions, asking for the Admiral, whose fame had spread over the whole
island.  Shortly after this he was weatherbound for several days in a harbour formed by an
island close to the coast.

When once free, and in seas now well known, being relieved from all anxiety and the excitement
which had so long existed, his mind and body sank exhausted by his almost superhuman exertions.
He was struck by a sudden malady, which deprived him of his memory, sight, and all his faculties,
and he fell into a deep lethargy, resembling death itself. In that state he was borne back
to Isabella.  Soon after arriving there he recovered consciousness, and his heart was cheered
by seeing his much-loved brother Bartholomew, from whom he had been separated many years, standing
over him.

Bartholomew had in the meantime made a voyage to Africa, and visited Henry the Seventh of England
and Charles the Eighth of France, and on his arrival in Spain had been sent out in command
of three ships, freighted with supplies for the colony.

He had arrived just after his brother had sailed, and since had been waiting for his return.
On his recovery, aided by his two excellent brothers, Bartholomew and Diego, Columbus took
the most energetic steps for the benefit of the colony.  A turbulent spirit existed among the
settlers, and many of the natives had been driven into hostility.  By an inexcusable stratagem
of Ojeda, one of the most powerful caciques, Caonabo was captured.  Several others were afterwards
taken prisoners. The Spaniards, however, quarrelled among themselves, and neglecting the excellent
regulations of Columbus, set his authority at defiance, while some of those he had most trusted
openly rebelled.  Margarite, one of the principal officers, and the cunning friar Boyle, with
other worthless men, sent home insidious reports regarding his administration of the government.
He, aware of the accusations against him, forwarded counter reports, and, in the meantime,
endeavoured to obtain all the gold to be procured to satisfy the cupidity of Ferdinand.  He
built several fortresses, both in the gold region and other parts of the country, and in a
short time the whole of the inhabitants were reduced to a helpless state of slavery, for, though
he intended that they should be treated with justice and kindly, the heartless and greedy Spaniards
thought only how they could obtain the largest amount of profit from their labours.

In spite of all his representations, his enemies so contrived to poison the mind of Ferdinand,
that a commissioner, Juan Aguado, armed with supreme authority, was sent out to investigate
the behaviour of Columbus, and to administer the government.

The Admiral received him with calmness and courtesy, and gave him no opportunity of creating
a quarrel.  All the rebels and dissatisfied spirits, however, thronged round Aguado and brought
their accusations against Columbus, who, finding that Aguado was about to return to Spain,
resolved likewise to go there, in order to defend himself.

As Aguado was about to sail, a fearful hurricane burst over the island and destroyed his four
ships.  Columbus on this ordered that the Nina, which was in a shattered and leaky condition,
should be prepared, and another vessel constructed out of the wrecks.

At this juncture a young Spaniard, who, in consequence of wounding a man, had fled from the
settlement and concealed himself among the natives near the mountains, where he married, had,
by the aid of his wife, discovered a rich gold region.

Knowing that he should be pardoned, he returned and reported the discovery to Columbus, who,
highly elated, fully believed that the mines were those of the ancient Ophir.

The Santa Cruz, the new caravel, being finished and the Nina repaired, Columbus appointed his
brother, Don Bartholomew, as Adelantado, to govern the island, and going on board, set sail
on the 12th of March, 1496.  Aguado went on board the other vessel, and between the two were
two hundred and twenty-five passengers, all those who wished to return to the old country,
as well as thirty Indians, with the cacique Caonabo, one of his brothers, and a nephew.  Even
captivity could not crush the spirit of the haughty chief till he fell ill, and died before
the termination of the voyage.

After meeting with baffling winds for a long time, on the 6th of April Columbus found himself
still in the neighbourhood of the Carib Islands, his crew sickly and his provisions diminishing.
He bore away, therefore, in search of supplies, and after touching at Maregalante, made sail
for Guadaloupe.  Here a boat going ashore to obtain wood and water, a large number of females,
decorated with tufts of feathers and armed with bows and arrows, as if to defend their shores,
were seen issuing from the forest.  The natives on board having explained to these Amazonian
dames that the object of the Spaniards was barter, they referred them to their husbands, who,
they said, were in a different part of the island.

As the boats pulled along the beach numbers of natives approached, shouting and yelling, and
brandishing their weapons, and discharging flights of arrows.

A few shots from the firearms of the Spaniards drove them off.  The boat when landing met with
no further opposition, and, contrary to the injunctions of the Admiral, they plundered and
destroyed the native huts.  Honey and wax were found in the houses, and hatchets made of hard
and heavy stone.  One of the seamen declared that he found a human arm roasting, but this statement
was probably made to excuse himself and his companions for the wanton mischief they had committed.

While some of the men were obtaining wood and water, Columbus dispatched a strongly-armed party
of forty into the interior.  Here they encountered a number of women of large and powerful
form, their long hair flowing loose upon their shoulders, and their heads decorated with plumes
of various colours.  Ten women and three boys were brought back. Among the former was a woman
of great strength and of proud spirit, who endeavoured to escape, but being pursued by a Spaniard,
was overtaken while attempting to strangle him, and was captured.

After they were brought on board Columbus ordered them to be restored to the island, but the
chieftainess, whose heart had been touched by the misfortunes of Caonabo, insisted on remaining
to comfort him, and was thus carried captive to Spain.

Guadaloupe was left on the 20th of April, but a whole month was spent beating against contrary
winds and currents, so that water and provisions began to fail, and the people were put upon
short allowance. So reduced were they at last that some of the Spaniards proposed, as an expedient,
that they should kill and eat their Indian prisoners.  Others suggested that they should throw
them into the sea.

Columbus had to exert all his authority to prevent this atrocious act. He urged them to wait
with patience, and assured them that in a short time they would see Cape Saint Vincent.

Many scoffed, declaring that they were on a different part of the coast, but on the 10th he
ordered that sail should be taken in at night, and on the next morning they were in sight of
the very land he had predicted.

After a dreary voyage of three months, on the 11th of June the vessels anchored in the Bay
of Cadiz.  He found three caravels on the point of sailing, to carry provisions to the colony.
Nearly a year had passed without relief of any kind having been sent out, as four vessels which
had sailed in January had been lost.  By this squadron he wrote to his brother, the Adelantado,
urging him to bring the island into a peaceful and productive state, and to send to Spain all
Indians who should injure any of the colonists.

Columbus was honourably treated by the sovereigns, although the mind of Ferdinand was evidently
poisoned by the representations of his enemies. Notwithstanding the cruel opposition of his
foes, the great navigator, refusing to take the repose his health so much required, bent on
prosecuting his discoveries, employed all his energies to obtain forthwith the command of another
expedition.

CHAPTER SIX.

THIRD VOYAGE OF COLUMBUS--A.D. 1498.

Columbus, after many delays, fits out another squadron, and sails on his third voyage, 30th
May, 1498--Touches at Gomara--Retakes a prize to a French privateer--Off the Cape de Verdes--Sends
three of his ships to Hispaniola, and steers south-west with the remainder--Long becalmed--
Steers west and sights Trinidad--Sees mainland of South America--Natives come off--Alarmed
by music--A bore threatens to destroy the ships-- Enters the Serpent's Mouth--Sails up the
Gulf of Paria--Mistakes the promontory for an island--Anchors at the mouth of the river--Natives
come off--Pearls seen among them--Large quantities procured--Passes through the Dragon's Mouth--Natives
seen fishing for pearls--Three pounds weight obtained--His eyesight failing, steers for Hispaniola--
Makes the land fifty leagues more to the west than he had expected-- Reaches Isabella--Disastrous
state of the settlement--Bobadilla sent out to supersede Columbus--Summoned to Isabella--Columbus
and his brothers sent in chains to Spain--Arrival--Reaction in his favour--Honourably received
at Court--Ovando sent out to supersede Bobadilla--The belief of Columbus that a passage into
the Indian Ocean was to be found--Obtains authority to fit out another fleet.

It was not without numerous wearying delays that Columbus at length succeeded in getting another
squadron fitted out to prosecute his discoveries.  He at length obtained six vessels, with
which he set sail on the 30th of May, 1498.  Having heard that a French squadron was cruising
off Cape Saint Vincent, he first stood to the south-west, touching at the islands of Porto
Santo and Madeira, and then continued his course to the Canary Islands.  As he approached Gomara
on the 19th of June, he saw at anchor a French privateer with two Spanish prizes. The former
put to sea in all haste, followed by her prizes, one of which had only four men on board, besides
six Spanish prisoners.  Though he sent three of his vessels in pursuit, the privateer and one
of the prizes escaped, but the six Spaniards on board the other, rising on their captors, she
was retaken and brought back to the port.

Leaving Gomara, Columbus dispatched three of his ships to carry supplies to Hispaniola, and
with the three remaining vessels prosecuted his voyage towards the Cape de Verde Islands. 
Though suffering from sickness, he continued to keep his reckoning and make his observations
with his usual minuteness.

Touching at the Cape de Verdes, he was disappointed at not obtaining the goats, sheep, and
cattle he had expected.  The weather was sultry and depressing, and he and his crew suffered
greatly.  Steering south-west for about one hundred and twenty leagues, he reached the fifth
degree of north latitude, the region known among seamen by the name of the "calm latitudes."

To get out of this latitude he steered to the south-west, hoping to find a milder temperature
farther on.  In this he was not disappointed.  At length a cool breeze filled the sails of
the vessels, and they again made good progress.

Columbus intended to have stood first to the south and then westward, but the heat had made
the vessels leak so excessively that it was necessary to find a harbour as soon as possible.
The provisions were also spoiled, and the water nearly exhausted.  On the 31st of July but
one cask of water remained in each ship, when about midday a seaman at the masthead hailed
that he saw the summits of three mountains rising above the horizon.

Columbus had before determined to give the name of the Trinity to the first land he should
behold, and was struck by the appearance of these three mountains united in one.  He therefore
called the island La Trinidad.  Steering to its eastern extremity, he saw a rock resembling
a galley under sail off a headland, which, in consequence, he called Punta de la Galera.  No
safe anchorage appearing, he coasted westward in search of a harbour and water.  Instead of
a sterile land, he saw the country covered with groves of palm-trees, cultivated in many places,
and enlivened by hamlets and scattered habitations, while streams came rushing down the hill-sides.

At length anchoring, abundance of water was obtained from a limpid brook, and traces of animals
were seen, which must have been those of deer, though supposed to be those of goats.

When coasting the island, he now for the first time saw, stretching away to the south, that
mighty continent of which he had so long been in search, it being the land near the many mouths
of the Oronoco; supposing it, however, to be an island, he called it La Isla Santa.  On the
2nd of August he cast anchor near the south-west portion of Trinidad.  As the ships approached
this place, a large canoe, with five and twenty Indians on board, put off from the shore.

He in vain tried to induce the savages to come on board, by offering them looking-glasses,
glass, beads of polished metal, and glittering trinkets.  They remained gazing in mute wonder
at the ships, but kept their paddles ready to make off at the least attempt to approach them.
They were young, well formed, and naked, excepting fillets of cotton bound round their heads,
and coloured cloths about their loins.  Besides their bows and arrows, they carried bucklers,--an
article of armour now first seen among the inhabitants of the New World.

Believing that they might be affected by music, Columbus ordered the band to strike up; but
the Indians, mistaking the sounds as a sign of hostility, seized their bows and let fly a shower
of arrows.  The discharge of a couple of crossbows, however, put them to flight.  They afterwards
approached the other ships, but had conceived an especial fear of that of the Admiral.

Columbus, supposing himself to be in the seventh degree of latitude, though actually in the
tenth, expected to find the inhabitants similar to the natives of Africa, under the same parallel,--black,
with crisp hair,--and was astonished at finding these natives even fairer than those met with
farther north.

The ships brought up at Point Arenal, the nearest to the mainland, between which and the island
Columbus observed, night and day, a current flowing at a tremendous speed, boiling and raging
to such a degree that he thought it was crossed by a reef of rocks.  From its dangerous appearance
he gave to it the name of Boca del Sierpe--the Serpent's Mouth.  He feared that the current
from the east would prevent his return, while his ships might be lost on the supposed rocks,
should he attempt a passage.

That night, while kept awake by his illness, he heard a terrible roaring from the south, and
beheld the sea heaped up and covered with foam, like a huge watery ridge the height of the
ships, rolling towards them.  As this furious surge approached, rendered more terrible in appearance
by the obscurity of night, he trembled for the safety of his vessels.  His own ship was lifted
up to such a height that he feared she would be overturned, while another was torn from her
anchorage.  The crews expected to be swallowed up, but the surge passed on and gradually subsided.

Early in the morning he sent the boats to sound the water at the Serpent's Mouth, and to his
great joy several fathoms were found; the currents and tides setting both ways, either to enter
or return.  A favourable breeze springing up, he entered the tranquil expanse between Trinidad
and the mainland of Paria, and, to his great surprise, he here found the water fresh.

He continued northward towards a mountain at the north-west point of the island, and here beheld
two lofty capes, one projecting from the island of Trinidad, the other at the end of the long
promontory of Paria, which, supposing it to be an island, he named Isla de Gracia.  Between
these capes was another channel beset with rocks, among which the current forced its way with
roaring turbulence, to which he gave the name of Boca del Dragon.

Not wishing to encounter it, he steered along the inner side of the promontory, round which,
fancying that it was an island, he expected to get, and then to be able to strike northward
for Hispaniola.

The country appeared to be cultivated in some places, and in others covered with fruit-trees
and plants, and abounding with monkeys.  He was, however, greatly astonished at finding the
water still fresh, and that it became more and more so the farther he proceeded.  It was that
season, however, when the rivers which empty themselves into the Gulf of Paria are swollen
by rains.  He was surprised also at the calmness of the sea, not being aware that the only
two entrances were by the Serpent's and Dragon's Mouths into this large expanse of water.

For some time no inhabitants were met with.  At length the ships brought up at the mouth of
the river, and immediately a canoe with three Indians came off to the caravel anchored nearest
the shore, when the captain, springing in, upset her, and the people, as they were swimming,
were secured.  Being brought to the Admiral, they were presented with beads, hawks' bells,
and sugar.  The report they gave in consequence, on returning on shore, induced many other
natives to come off.  They were tall, finely formed, and graceful in their movements, being
armed with bows and arrows and targets.  The men wore cotton cloths of various colours about
their heads and loins, but the women were destitute of clothing.  They brought maize and other
eatables, with beverages, some white, made from maize, others green, expressed from various
fruits. They judged of everything by the sense of smell.  As they came near they smelt the
boat, then smelt the people, as they did all the articles offered them.  Although setting little
value on the beads, they were delighted with the hawks' bells, and still more so with anything
of brass.  Taking some of the people as guides, he proceeded west for eight leagues, to a point
which he called the Needle.  So beautiful was the country, that he gave it the name of The Garden.

Here many natives came off, and invited the Admiral on shore in the name of their King.  Many
wore collars and burnished plates of that inferior kind of gold, called by the Indians guanin,
and they pointed to a land in the west, from whence they said it came; but the cupidity of
the Spaniards was excited by strings of pearls round the arms of some of them.  These, they
said, were procured at the sea-coast on the northern side of Paria, and they showed the mother-of-pearl
shells from which they were taken.

To secure specimens to be sent to Spain, Columbus dispatched some boats to that part of the
shore.  Numbers of the natives came down, and treating the Spaniards as beings of a superior
order, regaled them with bread and various fruits of excellent flavour.  They had among them
tame parrots, one of light green with a yellow neck, and the tips of the wings of a bright
red, others of a vivid scarlet, except some azure feathers in the wing.  These they gave to
the Spaniards, who, however, cared for nothing but pearls, many necklaces and bracelets of
which were given by the Indian women in exchange for hawks' bells or articles of brass.

The Spaniards returned on board highly delighted at the way they had been treated, while the
quantity of pearls seen among the natives raised the sanguine anticipations of Columbus, who
was anxious to send the finest specimens to the sovereigns.

Still believing the peninsula of Paria to be an island, he sailed on westward until compelled,
by finding the water more shallow as he advanced, to anchor, when he sent a caravel to explore.
She returned the following day with a report that at the end of the gulf there was an opening
of two leagues, which led into an inner gulf, into which flowed a quantity of fresh water by
four openings.  It was in reality the mouth of the large river now called the Paria.  To the
inner gulf Columbus gave the name of the Gulf of Pearls.

Finding no passage to the westward, the ships proceeded in an opposite direction for the Boca
del Dragon.  On the 13th of August they anchored in a fine harbour, to which Columbus gave
the name of Puerto de Gatos. Here also were seen mangroves growing in the water with oysters
clinging to the branches, their mouths open, as the Spaniards supposed, to receive the dew
which was afterwards thought to be transformed into pearls.  That they were thus formed was
believed until comparatively late years.

The passage through which he was about to pass is extremely dangerous after the rainy season,
and the water which rushes through it foams and roars as if breaking on rocks.  Scarcely had
the ships entered than the wind died away, and shipwreck appeared imminent, but they were at
length carried through by the current of fresh water into the open sea.

Columbus now stood to the westward, running along the northern coast of Paria, still supposing
it to be an island, intending to visit the Gulf of Pearls.  To the north-east he saw the two
islands of Tobago and Granada, and on the 15th those of Margarita and Cubagua, afterwards famed
for their pearl fishing.

On approaching the latter, a number of Indians were seen fishing for pearls.  A boat being
sent to communicate with them, a seaman offered a broken piece of gaily-painted porcelain to
a woman who had round her neck a string of pearls, which she readily gave in exchange.

On this the Admiral sent people on shore, who with beads and hawks' bells soon procured three
pounds weight of pearls, some of very large size.

The coast still trending to the westward, and rising into lofty ranges of mountains, Columbus
began to suspect that he was off the mainland of India; but his eyesight failing, he was reluctantly
compelled to steer for Hispaniola to seek for needed rest.  On making land, after a sail of
five days, he found that he was fifty leagues to the westward of his destination, having been
driven across by the strong steady current which sets in from the east, and assists to give
an impetus to the Gulf Stream.

Sending on shore for an Indian messenger to take a letter to his brother the Adelantado, a
canoe came off with several Indians, one of whom carried a Spanish crossbow.  As this was not
an article of traffic, the Admiral feared that fresh troubles had arisen, and that the weapon
had fallen into the Indian's hands by the death of a Spaniard.

Sailing, he arrived near the mouth of the river on the 30th of August, when a caravel, appeared,
on board of which came the Adelantado.  The brothers met with mutual joy, but the latter grieved
to see the great navigator so broken down in health, a mere wreck of himself, though with his
spirit still rising superior to all bodily affliction.

Though considerable progress had been made in the building of Isabella, now called San Domingo,
at the mouth of the Ozema, the Adelantado had sad accounts to give of the state of the island.
Rebellion had been rife among the colonists in all directions.  The Indians had been barbarously
treated, and all authority had been set at defiance. Attempts had been made to murder the Adelantado,
and the leaders had sent home the most serious accusations against him and Columbus and their
brother Diego.  They had succeeded too well in raising suspicions in the mind of Ferdinand
as to the loyalty of Columbus, and an officer of the royal household, Don Francisco de Bobadilla,
was sent out nominally to investigate the causes of the rebellion, but with power to arrest
the persons and sequestrate the effects of those he might consider guilty; while he was to
take upon himself the government of the island, and to demand the surrender of all fortresses,
ships, and other royal property.

Columbus had gone into the interior to arrange matters, while the Adelantado and his brother
had almost succeeded in overcoming the rebellion, when Bobadilla, accompanied by a guard of
twenty-five men and six friars, who had charge of a number of Indians sent back to their country,
appeared off Saint Domingo on the 23rd of August, 1500. Landing, without stopping to investigate
the conduct of Columbus and his brothers, he instantly commenced the most arbitrary proceedings.
He took up his residence in the house of Columbus, of whose whole property, gold, plate, jewels,
horses, together with his public and even private letters and manuscripts, he at once possessed
himself.  Columbus was summoned to San Domingo; he came, almost unattended, when, being at
once seized, Bobadilla gave orders that he should be put in irons, and confined him in the
fortress.  A wretched cook named Espinosa was the only person found to rivet the fetters. 
The great navigator conducted himself with the magnanimity which might have been expected.
The injustice and ingratitude of the sovereigns alone wounded his spirit, and he bore all his
present misfortunes in silence.

Though the Adelantado was at the head of a strong force when summoned to San Domingo, he returned
unattended, and was treated as his brother had been.  Columbus had expected to have suffered
on the scaffold, and was greatly relieved when he found himself conducted on board a caravel
commanded by a worthy captain--Alonzo de Villejo--who told him that he had orders to carry
him to Spain.

Villejo, touched by the sufferings of Columbus, treated him with much respect, and would have
relieved him of his shackles, but he answered, "No: their Majesties commanded me to submit
to whatever Bobadilla might devise; by their authority he has put upon me these shackles. 
I will wear them until they direct them to be taken off, and I will preserve them as relics
and memorials, as the reward of my services."

The page of history presents no sadder picture than Columbus in chains crossing the ocean from
those lands discovered by his genius, boldness, and perseverance.

The voyage was favourable and of moderate duration.  In a short time the ship, with her illustrious
prisoner on board, arrived at Cadiz.  A reaction took place, and a strong sympathy was expressed,
against which it would have been odious for the Government to contend.  The ignominious manner
in which Columbus had been treated created murmurs of astonishment at the Court at Grenada,
and a letter written by him on board reached the noble-minded Isabella before the document
sent home by Bobadilla.

The Queen and Ferdinand instantly sent off to Cadiz, directing that the prisoners should be
set at liberty and treated with all distinction; and they wrote a letter to Columbus, expressing
their grief at what he had suffered, and inviting him to Court.  Conscious of his integrity,
his heart was cheered, and he anticipated an immediate restitution of all his rights and dignities.

He appeared in Grenada, not as a disgraced man, but richly dressed, and attended by a noble
retinue.  He was received with unqualified favour and distinction, and as he beheld tears in
the benign eyes of Isabella, he threw himself on his knees, and for some time could not utter
a word for the violence of his tears and sobbing.  Enabled to speak, he defended himself fully;
indeed, the imputations of his enemies had been his best advocate.

Meantime the Pinzons and several other explorers had sailed forth, chiefly in search of pearls
and gold.

While we feel indignant at the treatment received by Columbus, we must not forget the miseries
of the helpless natives his discoveries had brought within the power of so-called civilised
Europeans.

The excellent Las Casas gives a vivid and faithful picture of the tyranny exercised over the
Indians by worthless Spaniards; wretches who in their own country had been the vilest of the
vile, but had in the New World assumed the tone of grand cavaliers.  Over much of their conduct
it is necessary to draw the veil.  Their very pleasures were attended with cruelty.  At the
least freak of ill humour they inflicted blows, and lashes, and even death itself, on their
helpless slaves.

Such were some of the evils which had sprung up under the rule of Bobadilla.  The wrongs of
the natives reaching the benevolent heart of Isabella, she urged that a new governor, Don Nicolas
de Ovando, should be sent out to supersede him, to inquire into the conduct of Columbus. Ovando
shortly afterwards sailed in command of one of the largest fleets that had yet proceeded to
the New World.

We should always bear in mind the lofty enthusiastic aspirations which influenced the mind
of the great navigator.  He had hoped by the wealth he should obtain to win the Holy Sepulchre
from the infidels, but more practical schemes soon occupied him.  The wealth brought from the
East, owing to the discoveries of the Portuguese, aroused him to emulation. He had found a
strong current setting westward, through the Caribbean Sea, between the coasts of Paria on
the south and Cuba on the north, the latter, as he believed, being a part of the Asiatic continent
stretching onwards in the same direction.  He believed therefore that there must be a straight
opening into the Indian Sea, and, could he discover it, he believed that he should be able
to reach India by a far more easy route than any yet followed.

His plan was listened to with attention by the sovereigns, and he was authorised to fit out
another armament.

He asked permission to touch at Hispaniola for supplies on the outward voyage, but the sovereigns,
knowing that he had many enemies in the island, forbade him doing so.  They, however, to soothe
his feelings, wrote him a letter dated the 14th of March, 1502, solemnly assuring him that
all his dignities should be enjoyed by him and his sons after him, and that they would bestow
further honours and rewards upon him and them as well as upon his excellent brothers.

CHAPTER SEVEN.

FOURTH AND LAST VOYAGE OF COLUMBUS--A.D. 1502.

Columbus sails from Cadiz the 9th of May, 1502, in command of four caravels--Reaches Martinico,
and steers for San Domingo to change one of his vessels finds Bobadilla about to sail--Refused
admission to the port--Warns the Governor of an impending hurricane--Keeps close in with the
land--Escapes--Bobadilla's ship founders--Only one with the treasure of Columbus reaches Spain--Touching
at Jamaica, stands across to Bonacca off the coast of Honduras--Visited by a cacique in a large
canoe laden with numerous articles--Search for the supposed strait--Goes on shore on the mainland--The
natives bring presents--Sails along the coast--Stormy weather continues--Columbus suffers from
illness--Fine weather--Off the Mosquito shore--Natives offended at their presents not being
accepted-- Hostages brought--Frightened at seeing the notary write--Natives carried off as
guides--Ships anchor in the Bay of Caribaro--Large quantities of gold seen among the natives--Reaches
the coast of Veragua--Hostility of natives--Frightened into friendship--Much gold obtained--Columbus
quits the gold region in search of the straits--Hears of the gold region of Ciguere--Anchors
in Puerto Bello--Passes Nombre de Dios--Anchors in Cabinet Harbour--The seamen insult the natives,
who attack the ships-- Put to flight by the guns--Columbus sails in search of the gold-mines
of Veragua.

Columbus had reached the age of sixty-eight years when he embarked upon his fourth voyage.
He had with him his faithful and intrepid brother, Don Bartholomew, and his younger son, Fernando.
The squadron sailed from Cadiz on the 9th of May, A.D. 1502, and after touching at Ercilla,
on the coast of Morocco, stood away for the Canaries, where it arrived on the 25th of May,
on the evening of which day he took his departure for the New World.  Without shifting a sail
it reached Martinico.

Though prohibited from touching at Hispaniola, one of his vessels was so bad a sea boat that
he ventured to steer for San Domingo, in order to change her for another.

Arriving off the river on the 29th of June, he found a fleet with Bobadilla on board, as well
as a large amount of treasure and several unhappy Indian captives.

The agent of Columbus had shipped four thousand pieces of gold, recently collected or recovered
from Bobadilla, on board one of the caravels.

Columbus immediately sent to ask permission of Ovando, who had assumed the government, to enter
the harbour, stating that the weather looked threatening, and that he believed a hurricane
was brewing.

Ovando most ungraciously refused the boon asked for by Columbus, who then again sent on shore,
entreating that, although shelter was denied to him, the fleet about to sail might be detained
in harbour until the coming tempest had spent its fury.

This request was also refused, the Governor and his officers not believing the warning.  Columbus,
therefore, steered along the coast, keeping as close to the shore as possible, convinced that
the storm would blow from the north.  The crews at once began to complain, having lost their
reliance on one who was subjected to such ill treatment.

Within two days his predictions were verified.  A fearful hurricane burst upon them, during
which the ship carrying Bobadilla and an unfortunate cacique foundered, together with an enormous
mass of gold,-- the principal part of the treasure gained by the miseries of the Indians. 
Many other ships were lost, some returning to San Domingo sorely battered, while only one,
the weakest of the fleet, with the treasure of the Admiral on board, continued her voyage to Spain.

The squadron of Columbus, though having suffered much, safely reached the port of Hermoso,
at the west end of San Domingo.  Here he remained several days, and then, after touching at
some small islands off Jamaica swept by the current, he reached a group near the coast of Honduras,
one of which he called the Isla de Pinos, now known as Guanaja, or Bonacca.

The Adelantado, on landing on its beautiful and fertile shore, saw an immense canoe approaching,
eight feet wide, and of great length, though formed of the trunk of a single tree.  Under a
canopy of palm-leaves sat a cacique, with his wives and children, rowed by twenty-five Indians.

The canoe was filled with all kinds of articles of manufacture and natural production.  The
Indians, without fear, came alongside the Admiral's caravel.  He was delighted to obtain, without
trouble, specimens of so many important articles of this part of the New World.  There were
bells and other articles of copper, and clay utensils; cotton shirts worked, and dyed with
various colours; great quantities of cacao, a fruit as yet unknown to the Spaniards, and a
beverage resembling beer, extracted from Indian corn.  Their provisions consisted of maize
bread, and roots of various kinds.  Many of the articles they willingly exchanged for European
trinkets.  The women were wrapped in mantles like the female Moors of Grenada, and the men
had cloths of cotton round their loins.  From their being clothed, and from the superiority
of their manufactures, the Admiral believed that he was approaching more civilised nations.

The natives stated that they had just arrived from a rich cultivated country, with the wealth
and magnificence of which they endeavoured to impress him.  His mind, however, being bent on
the discovery of the strait, and believing that he could easily visit them at some future period,
he determined to seek the mainland, and keep steadily on until he reached the opening between
it and Paria.

Had he followed the advice of his visitors he might have discovered Mexico, and even the Southern
Ocean might have been disclosed to him. He was encouraged to persist in the course he had designed
by hearing from an old man, whom he had detained as pilot, that there were many places farther
on abounding in gold.

Reaching the mainland on Sunday, the 14th of August, he and his officers, and many of the men,
landed, and Mass was performed under the trees.  On the 17th the Adelantado went ashore near
the mouth of a river, and took possession of the country in the name of their Catholic Majesties.
At this place upwards of a hundred Indians appeared, laden with bread, maize, fish, fowl, vegetables,
and fruits.

These they laid down as presents, and then, without speaking a word, drew back.  The Adelantado
distributed among them various trinkets, which so pleased them that they came with still more
abundant supplies. These natives had higher foreheads than those of the islands.  Some were
entirely naked and had their bodies tatooed, some wore coverings about the loins, and others
short cotton jerkins without sleeves.  The chieftains had coats of white or coloured cotton.
The Indian guide asserted that some of them were cannibals.

Day after day, exposed to storms, drenching rains, and currents, Columbus made his way along
the coast of Honduras, often gaining only a league or two in the day.  Though suffering from
gout, he still attended to his duty, having had a small cabin fitted on deck from which he
could keep a look-out.  Often he was so ill that he thought his end was approaching.

At length, after two months of continued gales, fine weather returned, and he doubled the Cape,
to which he gave the name of Gracias a Dios, or Thanks to God.  He next sailed along what is
now called the Mosquito shore, seeing many rivers in which grew enormous reeds, abounding with
fish, alligators, and turtles.

While the squadron was anchored near a river and the boats were on shore to obtain wood and
water, a bore, or swell of the sea, occurred, by which one of them was swallowed up, and all
on board perished.  The name, therefore, of El Rio del Desastro was given to the river.

The next place at which the ships dropped anchor was between a beautiful island, which Columbus
called La Huerta, or The Garden, and the mainland, where some way up was a native village named
Cariari.  The inhabitants, seeing the ships, quickly gathered on the shore, prepared to defend
their country; but when the Spaniards made no attempt to land, their hostility ceased, and,
waving their mantles, they invited the strangers on shore.  Swimming off, they brought mantles
of cotton and ornaments of guanin.

The Admiral, though he made them presents, would take nothing in exchange, and the savages,
supposing that their proffered gifts were despised, retaliated, pretending indifference to
the things offered them, and, on returning on shore, tied all the European articles up and
left them on the beach.

The following day, while a boat cautiously approached the shore to procure water, a venerable-looking
Indian appeared, bearing a white banner on the end of a staff, and leading a girl of fourteen,
and another of about eight years of age.  These he made signs were to be detained as hostages
while the Spaniards were on shore.  They were taken on board, and being kept under the care
of the Admiral, were clothed and adorned with various ornaments, and on the following morning
were restored to their friends, who appeared grateful for the kind way in which they had been
treated, but returned all the presents they had received.

On the Adelantado approaching the beach, two of the principal natives, wading into the water,
carried him ashore in their arms.  Wishing to collect information, he ordered the notary of
the squadron to write down their replies; but no sooner did they see the pen, ink, and paper
than, supposing he was working some necromantic spell, they fled in terror. After some time
they returned, scattering a fragrant powder in the air, intended, apparently, to counteract
it.  The Spaniards, equally ignorant, also fancied that the Indians were performing some magic
rite; indeed, Columbus asserts that they believed all the hardships and foul winds they had
experienced on the coast were owing to the witchcraft of the natives.

On leaving this place, Columbus carried off two of the natives, to serve as guides, promising
that he would restore them, with ample remuneration, on his return.

The squadron then sailed along the coast now known as Costa Rica, and anchored in a large bay,
full of islands, called Caribaro, the neighbourhood of which, the natives of Cariari had asserted,
abounded with gold.  The islands were covered with groves, which sent forth the fragrance of
fruits and flowers; and so deep and narrow were the channels, that the spars of the vessels,
as they passed on, brushed the overhanging branches.  The natives were at first afraid, but,
encouraged by the guides, advanced with confidence.  They wore numerous ornaments of pure gold,
and one of them exchanged a plate of gold, valued at ten ducats, for three hawks' bells.

The country on the mainland was hilly, the villages perched on the heights. Although they refused
to part with the gold, they told the Spaniards it was to be had in abundance within the distance
of two days' journey, mentioning, among other places, Veragua.

Columbus, eager to discover the strait, cared, at this time, very little for the gold, and
sailing along the coast, now known as that of Veragua, came off the mouth of a large river.

When the Spaniards next day went on shore, the natives exhibited a hostile disposition, but
a bolt from a crossbow wounding one of them, and a cannon being fired, they fled with terror;
and on being pursued, threw down their weapons, and, gentle as lambs, brought three plates
of gold, meekly receiving the articles given in exchange.  A similar scene was enacted at the
next place, and nineteen plates of pure gold were obtained.  Here, for the first time, Columbus
met with signs of solid architecture, which he believed indicated his approach to civilised
lands.  As he ran along the coast, but was unable to land on account of the heavy sea, the
guides pointed out numerous towns where gold abounded, one of them being Veragua, where they
said the plates of gold were fabricated, and near which were the rich mines.

Soon after this he arrived opposite a village, where he was told the country of gold terminated,
but still believing that he should discover a strait, he pushed on.  He understood from the
Indians that there was a magnificent country called Ciguare, situated at about ten days' journey
to the west, where the people wore crowns and bracelets and necklets of gold, and used it for
all domestic purposes; that they were armed like the Spaniards, with swords, bucklers, and
cuirasses.  He also fancied they said that the sea continued round to Ciguare, and that ten
days beyond it was the Ganges.  Probably they were describing Mexico or Peru.

The country was everywhere beautiful and fertile in the extreme.  On the 2nd of November the
squadron anchored in a commodious harbour, to which Columbus gave the name of Puerto Bello,
which it still retains.  They were delayed here ten days by heavy rains and stormy weather,
but the painted natives brought off provisions, though few had ornaments of gold.

Again sailing eastward, they passed the point now known as Nombre de Dios, but being driven
back, anchored in a harbour, which, from the large fields of Indian corn, fruits, and vegetables,
was called the Port of Provision.  They here remained until the 23rd, endeavouring to repair
their vessels, which were fearfully pierced by the teredo.  Misled by the seamen, always eager
to get on shore, who went to sound it, he entered a small harbour, which he called The Cabinet.
It was infested with alligators, which filled the air with a musky odour.

The natives gathered in large numbers, and at first treated their visitors with hospitality;
but the rough seamen soon committed excesses which aroused their hosts to vengeance.  In a
short time the natives were seen approaching to attack the vessels.  Not until some shotted
guns were fired among them did they take to flight.

The seamen now began to murmur at the continuance of the tempestuous weather, declaring that
the looked-for straits would never be found. Columbus might have begun to suspect the same,
and, to the great joy of his men, he expressed his intention of relinquishing his search for
the present.  Sailing on the 5th of December from the Cabinet, he steered in search of the
gold-mines of Veragua.

CHAPTER EIGHT.

LAST VOYAGE OF COLUMBUS, CONCLUDED--A.D. 1503-6.

The squadron encounters fearful storms--Returns to Veragua--The Adelantado visits the cacique
Quibian--Vessels nearly lost by a bore in the river--The Adelantado sets off for the gold-mines--During
a second excursion collects much gold--Columbus resolves to form a colony--The vessels prevented
from crossing the bar--Eighty men engaged in building a fort--Diego Mendez goes on a scouting
expedition, and discovers the treacherous designs of Quibian--Visits the village of the cacique--The
Adelantado undertakes to capture Quibian--He succeeds--The cacique escapes on his way down
the river--Is supposed to be lost--Columbus prepares to sail--Indians attack the settlement--Driven
off--Tristan goes up the river for water--He and his party destroyed by the Indians-- Settlement
again attacked--The Spaniards entrench themselves--No communication possible with the ships--Fearful
tragedy on board--Gallant conduct of Ledesma--The settlement abandoned--The ships, pierced
by the teredo, unseaworthy--One abandoned at Puerto Bello--Stands across to Cuba--A tempest--Narrow
escape--In vain endeavouring to get westward, steers for Jamaica--The caravels run on shore
and prepared for defence-- Diego Mendez obtains provisions--Crosses in a canoe to Hispaniola--
Mutiny of Porras and others--They put to sea in canoes--Driven back by a storm--Misconduct
on shore--Instigate the Indians to withhold provisions--Columbus predicts an eclipse of the
moon--A second mutiny-- Arrival of Escobar--Refuses to take Columbus away--Adventures of Mendez--Porras
persists in his rebellion--Porras captured by the Adelantado--Vessels arrive--Columbus reaches
San Domingo--Reaction in his favour--Returns with his brother to Spain--His last illness and death.

The vessels put into Puerto Bello, then once more stood westward; but the wind, again heading
them, began to blow with such terrible violence, that they were obliged once more to run back
towards the port they had left; but before they could reach it, they were driven out to sea
by a terrific gale.  Here for days they were tossed about, while the rain poured down in a
perfect deluge, and to add to the terror of the seamen a waterspout was seen approaching, from
which they narrowly escaped. For a short time the tempest ceased, but again raged with greater
fury than before.  No serious damage, however, having occurred, the vessels at length, on the
3rd of February, 1503, came to an anchor off the river Yebra, which was within a league of
another river known as the Veragua, running through the country said to abound in gold-mines.

Both rivers were sounded, and the Yebra, or Belen as Columbus called it, being somewhat the
deepest, the caravels entered it at high tide.  At first the natives assumed a menacing attitude,
but assured by the guides of the pacific intentions of the Spaniards, they received them in
a friendly way.  Besides a quantity of fish and provisions, they brought also numerous golden
ornaments,--objects delighting the greedy eyes of the Spaniards.  The Adelantado lost no time
in ascending the river in a well-armed boat to the residence of Quibian, the principal cacique
of the country.

The chief, a tall powerful warrior, received him in a friendly manner, and presented him with
various golden ornaments.  The following day Quibian visited the Admiral, by whom he was hospitably
entertained.

Suddenly, on the 24th of January, a vast mass of water came rushing down the river, forcing
the ships from their anchors, and dashing them against each other with such violence that the
foremast of the Admiral's vessel was carried away, and the squadron placed in great danger;
a furious storm and the heavy surf on the bar preventing them from running out to sea.

When the weather moderated, the Adelantado paid another visit up the river to Quibian, who
came down to meet him with a large train of his subjects unarmed, making signs of peace.  The
chief was naked, and painted after the fashion of the country.  Seated on a stone, he received
the Adelantado with great courtesy, and acceding to his wishes to visit the interior of his
dominions, supplied him with three guides to conduct him to the mines.

Leaving a party to guard the boats, the Adelantado set off on foot with the remainder, sleeping
one night on the road.  After travelling about six leagues, they entered a forest, where the
guides informed them the mines were situated.  The whole soil indeed seemed to be impregnated
with gold, and in the space of two hours each Spaniard had collected a considerable quantity
from among the roots of the trees.

Reaching the top of a hill, the guides pointed out to the Adelantado a wide forest region,
which they assured him, for a distance of twenty leagues, abounded with gold.  It appeared,
however, that by the directions of Quibian they had deceived him, and taken him to the mines
of a neighbouring cacique, with whom he was at war, and that the real mines of Veragua were
nearer and far more wealthy.

After this the indefatigable Adelantado made another exploring expedition along the coast and
through the interior, from which he returned well laden with gold.

Eighty men were selected to remain, and they immediately set about building dwellings and a
store-house within bowshot of the river Belen. Columbus endeavoured to conciliate the good-will
of the Indians, that they might bring provisions to the colony, and he made many presents to
Quibian to reconcile him to this intrusion into his territories.

When an attempt was made, however, to carry the vessels over the bar, it was found there was
not sufficient water for them.  They had to wait for the periodical swelling of the river before
this could be accomplished.

Columbus was satisfied with the good disposition of the natives, but the chief notary, Diego
Mendez, his attached friend, had some doubts about the matter, and offered to sally forth and
visit a large Indian camp which it was discovered had been formed in the neighbourhood.

Rowing up the river in a strongly-armed boat, he suddenly came upon a thousand or more Indians
evidently on a warlike expedition.  Landing alone, he offered to accompany them.  This proposition
was received in a suspicious manner, and he returned to his boat.  Watching narrowly during
the night, he perceived that they went back to Veragua.

Hastening to the Admiral, he expressed his opinion that the Indians intended to surprise the
settlement.  Further to ascertain the intentions of Quibian, he undertook to penetrate to his
head-quarters. Accompanied by one Rodrigo Escobar, he made his way to the mouth of the Veragua,
where he induced two Indians to convey him and his companion up the river.

On reaching the village of the chief, the two Spaniards observed a bustle of warlike preparation,
and heard that Quibian was confined to his house by a wound.  Mendez on this announced that
he was a surgeon, and offered to cure the chief of his wound.  Making his way towards the chief's
residence, he came upon an open space where he saw raised on posts the heads of three hundred
enemies of the tribe slain in battle.

As he approached the house, a powerful Indian--son of the cacique-- rushed out and struck him
a blow; but Mendez producing a box of ointment, pacified him.  Though unable to gain access
to the cacique, he escaped without further injury to the boat, and he and his companion made
their way down to the harbour.

It was evident that the natives intended hostilities, and from an Indian who had become attached
to the Spaniards they learned that Quibian intended to surprise the Spaniards by night, to
burn the vessels and houses, and make a general massacre.  To prevent him carrying out his
plan, the Adelantado offered to go up the river and capture him and his principal chiefs and
family during the night, and to bring them in chains on board.

Taking Diego Mendez, with seventy men and an interpreter, he set off on the 30th of March.
Reaching the neighbourhood of the village, he left the rest of his people, and, accompanied
by Diego Mendez and four others, went forward.  The remainder, two and two, climbed the hill.
It was arranged that upon the discharge of an arquebus they were to surround the dwelling and
suffer no one to escape.

At the concerted signal four of the Spaniards rushed forward, the fifth discharged his arquebus.
The cacique attempted to get loose, but was held firm in the iron grasp of the Adelantado.
A violent struggle ensued, but Diego Mendez and the rest coming up, Quibian was bound hand
and foot; and at the report of the arquebus the main body of the Spaniards surrounded the house
and seized all who were within, the wives and children of Quibian included.  When the savages
saw their chief a captive, with loud cries they implored his liberty, offering a rich treasure
as his ransom.

The Adelantado, deaf to their entreaties, carried off Quibian and the other prisoners to the
boat, committing them to the charge of Juan Sanchez, the principal pilot, while he remained
on shore with part of his men to secure the Indians who had escaped.

The night was dark, and as the boats proceeded down the river Quibian pretended that the cord
which bound him to a bench hurt his limbs, and the pilot loosed it.

The wily Indian, watching his opportunity, plunged into the water, and in the darkness and
confusion it was not known whether he sank or reached the bank.  Sanchez, crestfallen, returned
in the boats to the ships.

The next morning the Adelantado, seeing from the nature of the country that it would be impossible
to overtake the fugitives, contented himself with carrying off all the coronets, necklaces,
and plates of gold found in the cacique's mansion, to the value of three hundred ducats, and
got safely on board.

Columbus, believing that Quibian had perished and that the vigorous measures of the Adelantado
had succeeded in quelling the natives, made preparations for sailing.  The river having swollen,
he got three of the caravels over the bar by landing their cargoes, but left the fourth for
the use of the settlement.  Taking leave of his brother, and making his final arrangements,
he set sail.  The wind, however, continued adverse, and on the 6th of April, wishing to communicate
with his brother, he sent a boat on shore under the command of Diego Tristan, captain of one
of the caravels.

As Tristan approached the shore he found his countrymen, some on board the caravel, some on
the sea-shore looking at the ships, and others scattered about the houses, when suddenly a
vast number of Indians rushed forward with yells and howls, launching their javelins through
the windows and roofs, or thrusting them through the crevices of the woodwork, wounding some
of those who were within.

At the first alarm the Adelantado, seizing a lance, sallied forth with seven or eight men,
and being joined by Diego Mendez and others, they drove the enemy into the forest, killing
and wounding many of them.  He had get up some way, and was passing through a narrow channel
between high, rocky, and wooded banks, when he was suddenly assailed by showers of darts and
arrows.  As the crew, losing all presence of mind, made no attempt to row away, only covering
themselves with their bucklers, in a short time he and the whole of them, with the exception
of one man, were massacred.  The survivor, springing overboard, gained the bank of the river
unperceived, and made his way down to the settlement with the tidings of the death of his captain
and comrades.

The Spaniards were dismayed.  They were few in number in the midst of exasperated savages.
The Admiral, ignorant of their misfortunes, they said, would sail away, and leave them to perish.
In vain the Adelantado remonstrated.  They insisted on embarking in the caravel and following
Columbus.  The water, however, had fallen, and she could not be got over the bar.  They attempted
to put off in the boat, but a heavy surf rolling on the shore made this impossible.

In the meantime the Indians, instigated by Quibian, who had escaped, again attacked the Spaniards,
rushing out from their coverts in the woods, and hurling their javelins and darts.  As the
huts were so near the woods that they might at any moment be surprised, a spot was chosen on
the shore, where a breastwork was thrown up formed of the boats, casks, and cases, in the embrasures
of which were placed two small pieces of artillery.  Here, when the Indians came on, they were
received with so warm a fire from the arquebuses and guns that they quickly took to flight.
The little garrison knew, however, that before long their ammunition would fail and their provisions
be exhausted, and that they could anticipate nothing but destruction in the end.

Columbus all this time was not aware what was taking place on shore.  He became anxious, however,
at the non-appearance of Diego Tristan and his party, but as there was one boat only remaining,
he was afraid of sending her off lest she should be overwhelmed by the surf breaking on the beach.

A fearful circumstance now occurred.  The prisoners were confined at night in the forecastle
of the caravel, the hatchway of which was generally secured by a strong chain and padlock.
Several of the crew slept on this hatchway, and as it was so high as to be considered out of
the reach of those beneath, they neglected to fasten the chain.

The Indians, discovering their negligence, made a heap of stones from the ballast directly
under the hatchway.  Several of their most powerful warriors then mounting on the top, and
bending their backs, by a sudden effort forced up the hatch.  In an instant the greater part
of the Indians sprang forth, some plunging into the sea and swimming for the shore.  Several
were seized and forced back into the forecastle, when the hatchway was chained down and a guard
was set for the remainder of the night.

In the morning the Spaniards, on lifting the hatch, found to their horror that their captives
were all dead.  Some had hanged themselves with the ends of ropes, their knees touching the
floor, while others lay strangled, having drawn the ropes tight with their feet.  Columbus,
fearing that the prisoners who had escaped would stimulate their countrymen to some act of
vengeance, was anxious to communicate with his brother.  It still seemed impossible for the
boat to reach the shore, when Pedro Ledesma, a pilot of Seville, volunteered to swim to the
beach if the boat would carry him outside the breakers and wait his return.

Stripping himself, he plunged into the sea, and buffeting the surges, reached the shore.  He
here found the intended settlers verging on despair, and also heard the fate of Diego Tristan.

With a message from the Adelantado, the brave pilot made his way back to the boat.  Columbus,
on receiving the alarming intelligence brought by the pilot, was thrown into a state of the
greatest anxiety.  Rather than allow the settlement to be broken up, he would have joined the
Adelantado with all his people; but how, then, could he send tidings of his important discovery
to the sovereigns?  After much trouble of mind he resolved to embark the people and abandon
the settlement.

Bad weather and a heavy sea rendered this for a long time impossible. At length the wind going
down, the sea became calm, and he was able to send the boat on shore.  Every exertion was at
once made to bring off the people.  The zealous Diego Mendez had been actively employed in
making sacks to hold the biscuit.  He also constructed a raft, which greatly facilitated the
conveyance of the stores, arms, and ammunition.

The caravel was also dismantled.  Her provisions and stores were got off, so that nothing remained
but her hull.

By the end of April, with a favourable wind, Columbus left the disastrous shores of Veragua;
but his ships, honeycombed by the teredo, could with difficulty be kept afloat.  To the surprise
of his pilots, instead of standing northwards towards Hispaniola, he steered due east, knowing
that the the current, which has a strong set into the Caribbean Sea, would have swept him far
away out of his intended course.

He continued on to Puerto Bello, where he found that one of his caravels was so pierced by
the teredo that he was compelled to leave her behind, and to divide her crew between the two
remaining vessels.  He then proceeded on as far as what is now known as the Gulf of Darien.
So ignorant were the pilots that they fancied all this time that they were to the east of the
Caribbean Islands, whereas the Admiral feared truly that he should fall to the westward of
Hispaniola.

Sailing across the Caribbean Sea, he at length sighted two small islands to the north-west
of Hispaniola, which he called the Tortugas, from the quantity of turtles seen about them,
though now known as the Caymans. Passing west of these, he found himself among the islands
to the south of Cuba which he had called the Queen's Gardens.  Here he cast anchor. His crews
were almost worn out, and the only provisions left were a little biscuit, oil, and vinegar,
while they were obliged to labour incessantly at the pumps.

Suddenly a tempest burst upon them.  Three of their anchors were lost, and the vessels, driving
together, nearly knocked each other to pieces. With the greatest difficulty they were separated,
and the Admiral's ship anchored with his sole remaining cable, which in the morning was found
nearly worn asunder.  At the end of six days, the weather moderating, he sailed eastwards for
Hispaniola.

Contrary winds, however, compelled him at length to stand across for Jamaica, where, on the
23rd of June, the caravels put into Puerto Bueno, now called Dry Harbour.  No natives being
found, the following day they sailed eastward, and entered another harbour, called Porta Santa
Gloria. Here, at length, Columbus was compelled to give up his arduous struggle against the
elements; his ships, reduced to mere wrecks, could no longer be kept afloat, and he ordered
them to be run aground within bowshot of the shore, and fastened side by side.  Here they soon
filled with water to the deck.  Cabins were therefore erected at the bow and stern, for the
accommodation of the crews, and the vessels were placed in the best possible state of defence
against any sudden attack of the natives.

To prevent his men roving about the neighbourhood, he ordered that no one should go on shore
without a special licence, and every other possible precaution was taken to prevent giving
offence to the Indians. Scarcely had these arrangements been made, than the natives appeared
in vast numbers, bringing provisions to barter.  That no disputes might arise, two persons
were appointed to superintend all such trading transactions.  It was feared, however, that
the food thus furnished would soon fall short, in which case the Spaniards would be reduced
to famine.  In this emergency, Diego Mendez, with his accustomed zeal, offered to set off with
three men on a foraging expedition.  He was everywhere treated with the utmost kindness by
the natives, who supplied him and his companions with meat and drink; and he made arrangements
with the cacique of a numerous tribe that his subjects should hunt and fish, and bring cassava
bread every day to the harbour.  They were to receive, in exchange, various articles which
they most valued.

This arrangement being made, Mendez dispatched a message to apprise the Admiral, and then proceeded
upon his journey, during which he visited three different caciques, who all agreed to his proposals.

Having now sent back his companions, Mendez made his way to the eastern end of the island,
where he found a powerful cacique, named Ameyro.  He won over this chief by his ingratiating
manner, and, having purchased a canoe, induced him to send six Indians to navigate it.  He
made a successful trip, and when he rejoined the Admiral, he found that the canoes of the friendly
chief had already arrived with abundance of provisions.

The great desire of Columbus was now to get from the island.  But his ships were like sieves,
and he had but one small boat.  The idea occurred to him that he might send Diego Mendez, in
the canoe lately obtained, to Hispaniola.  He broached the subject to his worthy follower,
who at once agreed to perform the hazardous voyage, provided no better man was to be found
to undertake it.

All were perfectly ready to let Mendez go.  He accordingly embarked, the Admiral's despatches
being ready, with one Spaniard and six Indians. The brave officer at first paddled to the east
end of the island, where he remained waiting for calm weather.  When here, he and his men were
seized by a party of savages, who were about to kill them, when Mendez, making his escape,
reached his canoe and got back to the harbour.  Still undaunted, he resolved to make another
attempt, and being joined by Bartholomew Fiesco, a Genoese devoted to the Admiral, in another
canoe, he and his associates set off, escorted by the Adelantado, to the east end of the island,
with an armed party to prevent the savages from molesting them.  The weather being serene,
they once more set off, hoping to reach Hispaniola in four or five days.

Soon after this sickness broke out among the crews of the two caravels, while many bitterly
blamed the Admiral, considering that all their misfortunes were owing to him.

Week after week went by, and no ships appearing, Columbus, with too much reason, feared that
his friends had perished.

It had been arranged that Mendez, as soon as he could send off a vessel, was to proceed on
to Spain with the Admiral's despatches giving an account of his new discoveries, and that Fiesco
was to return in a vessel to take him and his companions off from Jamacia.

Meantime, two brothers, Porras by name, the eldest of whom was a captain of one of the caravels,
had concocted a vile plot to seize Columbus, capture the largest Indian canoes to be found,
and go on in them to Hispaniola.

The Admiral was in his cabin, confined to his bed by gout, when, on the 2nd of January, 1504,
Francisco de Porras entered, and, uttering bitter complaints, accused him of having no intention
of returning to Spain.

Columbus maintained his calmness, and suggested that the officers should meet together, and
decide what measures should be pursued.  Porras, however, replied that there was no time for
further consultations, and told the Admiral that he must either embark, or remain by himself.
He then shouted, "I am for Castile!  Those who choose may follow me!"

"I will follow you, and I, and I!" answered the crew, brandishing their weapons.

Columbus leapt from his bed, but fell.  A few of his faithful adherents gathered round him,
while the Adelantado sallied forth, lance in hand, to take the whole brunt of the assault.
Columbus entreated that no blood might be shed, and told the mutineers that they might depart
peaceably.

Hearing this, they at once prepared for embarking in ten canoes, which had been purchased of
the Indians.  Many who had not taken part in the mutiny joined the deserters, and the whole
set off along the coast.  As they proceeded they landed and committed outrages upon the Indians,
robbing them of their provisions and whatever else they coveted.  As they did so they told
the Indians that Columbus would pay them, and advised them to kill him if he did not.

Reaching the eastern end of the island they put off, intending to stand across the gulf; but
a heavy sea arose, and fearing that their light canoes would be swamped, they threw the helpless
Indians, whom they had taken to paddle them, overboard.  When some of the natives attempted
to seize the gunwales and save themselves, the barbarians cut off their hands and stabbed them
with their swords.

The deserters, on reaching land, took up their abode in an Indian village, the inhabitants
of which they treated in their usual tyrannical manner.  They then wandered from village to
village, a dissolute gang, supporting themselves by robbery, and passing like a pestilence
through the island.

Columbus, meantime, supported by conscious rectitude, devoted himself to relieving the sufferings
of his sick companions who remained with him. The good faith with which he had ever acted towards
the natives now produced a beneficial effect, and supplies of provisions were brought from
time to time, which were scrupulously paid for.  As, however, the trinkets lost their value,
the supplies fell off, and at length entirely ceased.  Every day the difficulty of procuring
food increased, and when any was brought, a ten times higher price than formerly was asked
for it.  The atrocities committed by Porras and his party had produced an injurious effect
on the minds of the natives, even against the Admiral, and they hoped that, by withholding
provisions, either to starve him and his people, or to drive them from the island.

At this juncture Columbus ascertained that there would be a total eclipse of the moon in the
early part of the night, and he, in consequence, conceived a device, which, according to the
erroneous notions of those days, he probably considered a pious and excusable fraud.  To make
the natives believe in his superior powers, he invited the principal cacique and his followers
to a conference, when he told them that the white men worshipped a great divinity, who would
be displeased if his votaries were allowed to starve; and, lest they should despise his warning,
the moon would be ordered to change its colour and gradually lose its light that very night.
Many of the Indians were alarmed, others treated the prediction with derision.

When, however, they saw a dark shadow steal over the moon, seized with terror, they hurried
to the ships, and entreated Columbus to intercede for them.  He promised to do so, and, retiring
to his cabin, waited until he saw that the eclipse was about to diminish, when, coming forth,
he assured them that they would be pardoned, provided they fulfilled their promise, in sign
of which he would withdraw the darkness from the moon.

The Indians once more seeing the planet shining brightly? came with all reverence to Columbus
to propitiate him with gifts, and from that time forward there was no lack of provisions.

Many months went by, and at length more of his followers became desperate, and another conspiracy
was formed by an apothecary Bernado, who, with two confederates, designed seizing the remaining
canoes, and making their way to Hispaniola.

The mutiny was on the point of breaking out, when, just eight months after the arrival of the
two shattered barks in the harbour, a vessel was seen in the offing.  She stood in and a boat
approached, in which was Diego de Escobar, a wretch who had been condemned to death by Columbus
and pardoned by Bobadilla.

Putting a letter on board for the Admiral from Ovando, he then withdrew to a distance, and
shouted out that he had been sent by the Governor to express his concern for the sufferings
of Columbus, and his regret that he had no vessel of sufficient size to bring him off, but
would send one as soon as possible.

This was the first intimation that Columbus had received of the safe voyage of Mendez and Fiesco.
In writing an answer to Ovando, he vividly depicted the dangers of his situation, and recommended
Mendez and Fiesco to his favour, assuring him that they were only sent to apply for succour.
Escobar receiving the letter, returned on board, and making all sail, was soon lost to sight.

Columbus well knew that jealousy was the cause of Ovando's cruel conduct, and that he had sent
Escobar as one who would have no sympathy with his sufferings.

When left in doubt, after the appearance of Escobar, as to whether assistance would really
be sent, Columbus endeavoured by kind measures to win back Porras and his rebel crew to their
allegiance.

Porras, however, who had formed a plan to attack and plunder the stranded caravels and make
the Admiral prisoner, persuaded his men to hold out.  On this the sturdy Adelantado resolved
to try the effect of force, and taking with him fifty followers, he set out for the camp of
the traitor.

On approaching he sent two messengers, who had before accepted the offer of pardon, to treat
with Porras; but he would not permit them to approach, and he and his men, brandishing their
weapons, defied the Adelantado, six of them vowing that they would put him to death.  Two of
the strongest of their number, however, quickly fell beneath his flashing sword; and many others
lay killed or wounded, when Porras, rushing forward, struck at the Adelantado's shield, in
which his sword remained fixed.  Before he could withdraw it, several of the Adelantado's party
closing on him, made him prisoner.  His followers, seeing this, fled, and Don Bartholomew returned
in triumph with his prisoner to the Admiral.

Next day the fugitives sent a petition, couched in abject terms, for pardon, swearing that
they would for ever afterwards remain faithful.

At length, after a year of alternate hope and despondency, the Spaniards saw two vessels approaching
the harbour.  One had been fitted out by Diego Mendez, and the other was sent by Ovando, placed
under the command of Salcedo, the Admiral's agent at San Domingo.

Joy filled the hearts of the exiles as they approached.  Columbus nobly forgave the rebels,
and all were received on board, Porras alone being still kept a prisoner, while the Indians
wept when they beheld the departure of their guests, having experienced nothing but just and
gentle treatment from Columbus.

The vessel set sail on the 28th of June for San Domingo.  Adverse winds and currents still
opposed his progress, and it was not until the 3rd of August that Columbus reached the little
island of Beata, on the coast of Hispaniola, and not, in consequence of the same cause, until
the 13th that he anchored in the harbour of San Domingo.  Here a strong reaction in his favour
took place, and many of those who had jeered as he was led away a prisoner in chains, now came
forward to welcome him with every mark of respect.  He was lodged in the house of Ovando, who,
however, set at liberty the traitor Porras, and even talked of punishing the Admiral's followers
for having, in the fray at Jamaica, killed several of the mutineers.

Columbus had much cause for grief when he saw the desolation brought upon the island by the
cruel treatment of the natives, and heard of the horrible massacres which had been perpetrated
by Ovando and his agents. He was eager to depart, and as soon as the vessels which had brought
him from Jamaica could be repaired, he put one under charge of the Adelantado, while he, with
his son and domestics, embarked on board the other.

Most of his late crew remained at San Domingo, and even the most violent of the rebels were
helped from his purse.  Scarcely had he left the harbour than the mast of his vessel was carried
away; so sending her back, he embarked on board that commanded by the Adelantado.

The caravel continued her voyage, sorely buffeted by storms, during which one of her masts
was sprung, he all the time lying prostrated by sickness in his cabin.  It was not until the
end of several weeks that the tempest-tossed barks anchored, on the 7th of November, in the
harbour of San Lucar.

Thus ended the last voyage undertaken by the great navigator.  From San Lucar he was conveyed
to Seville, where he hoped to obtain rest after all his toils; but on arriving there he found
his affairs in confusion, as they had been ever since his property had been seized by Bobadilla.
His great anxiety was to get to Court to defend himself from the malignant accusations of his
enemies; but his patroness, the magnanimous Isabella, fell ill and died.  Ferdinand, though
he treated him with respect, made constant excuses for not attending to his requests.

At length King Philip with Juana arrived from Flanders to take possession of their throne of
Castile, and the Admiral, trusting that in the daughter of Isabella he would once more find
a patroness, being too ill to leave his bed, sent his brother the Adelantado to petition for
the restoration of his honours and estates.

It was the last time he was to see his gallant brother.  Before the return of Don Bartholomew,
feeling his end approaching, leaving his eldest son Don Diego his heir, he made his dying bequests
in the presence of his faithful followers, Mendez and Fiesco, and on the 20th of May, 1506,
at the age of seventy years, he yielded up his dauntless spirit to his Maker.

CHAPTER NINE.

VOYAGE OF VASCO DA GAMA, TO FIND A WAY TO INDIA BY SEA, AND TO DISCOVER THE KINGDOM OF PRESTER
JOHN--A.D. 1497.

Early voyages of Portuguese to coast of Africa--Prince Henry of Portugal--Cape Bojador discovered--Madeira
visited by Gonzales--Dom Joao the Second--Bartholomew Diaz discovers Cape of Storms, called
by the King Cape of Good Hope--Envoys sent to Prester John--King Manuel fits out a squadron--Appoints
Vasco da Gama to command them--Paulo da Gama-- Nicholas Coelho--Grand ceremony at leave-taking--Squadron
sails--Meet at Cape de Verde Islands--Enter a bay on African coast--Intercourse with natives--Veloso
nearly caught by them--Ships stand off the land--Terror of the crews--Wish to return--Da Gama
refuses--The Cape of Good Hope doubled--Ships stand along south coast of Africa--No natives
seen--A tremendous gale--Clamours to return--Mutiny suppressed by a device of Coelho's--Da
Gama puts his pilots in irons.

Nearly a century before Vasco da Gama sailed on his renowned voyage, a spirit of discovery
had been aroused in the breasts of the rulers of Portugal.  Prince Enrique, who had accompanied
his father, King Joao, on an expedition against Cueta in Africa, had obtained from several
Moors much information concerning the coasts of that dark continent, which had fired his ambition
to ascertain more about it.  Hitherto Europeans had not ventured beyond the Cape, to which
was given the name of Cabo Nao, signifying in Portuguese, No, or in other words, This cape
is not to be passed.

Prince Enrique, believing this idea to be a bugbear, fitted out two vessels in A.D. 1417, with
orders to their commanders to push beyond the dreaded cape.  This they succeeded in doing;
but on finding the sea breaking furiously on another cape farther to the south, to which they
gave the name of Bojador, they also turned back.

The next year the Prince sent a second expedition under Joao Gonzales. Being driven off the
African coast by a gale, the ships put into the harbour of Porto Santo in a small island a
little to the northward of Madeira, and then returned home.  The Prince, on hearing of this,
dispatched a ship carrying some colonists provided with agricultural instruments, plants, and
seeds, as well as cattle and other animals. Among the latter were a couple of rabbits, which
increased so prodigiously, that the corn and plants of all descriptions were destroyed by them,
and as they could not be got rid of, it became necessary to remove the human inhabitants.

The next year, by order of the Prince, Gonzales, again sailing, re-discovered the island of
Madeira, at which the Englishman, Lionel Machin, with the hapless Arabella Darcy, two centuries
before, had landed and died.  The Portuguese gave to it the name of Madeira, which means Wood,
in consequence of finding it overgrown with trees.  To clear a part for settlement they set
the wood on fire, but being of a dry character, the trees burned until the whole were destroyed.

Several years passed, when Prince Enrique dispatched an experienced seaman, Captain Gilianez,
charging him to pass the dreaded Cape of Bojador.  Gilianez proceeded thirty leagues beyond
it, but dreaded to go farther.  He turned back, therefore, satisfied at having performed his
commission.  Next year he proceeded another twelve leagues to the south, to a part of the coast
where a number of sea-wolves, or rather seals, were taken.

Thus, year by year, expeditions were sent out, each gaining, step by step, a knowledge of the
African coast, until in the reign of Dom Joao the Second, in 1486, Bartholomew Diaz sailed
with three ships, resolved to proceed farther than any of his predecessors.  Touching at several
places on the coast, he at length reached an until then unknown cape, to which he gave the
name of Il Cabo Tormentoso, or the Cape of Storms, on account of the furious gales and heavy
seas he there encountered.

The seamen, frightened by the weather, and believing that Nature had set a barrier against
their further progress, insisted on returning, although Diaz was convinced that he had reached
the southern end of the continent.  On the arrival of Diaz at Lisbon, the King, delighted with
his discovery, gave to the cape the name of Cabo de Boa Esperanza, or Cape of Good Hope.  Dom
Joao had in the meantime dispatched overland two envoys with directions to visit the kingdom
of Prester John, and was preparing to send out an expedition by sea, when death put a stop
to his projects.

His successor, Dom Manoel, resolved, however, to carry them out, but before doing so he set
to work to obtain all the information in his power.  On consulting a Jewish astronomer, Zacato,
he learned the cause of the ill success many of the expeditions had met with.  He could not
understand why some of his captains had in certain latitudes encountered storms, while others
had passed through them in fine weather.  The Jew suggested that as the ocean is very large,
in some parts it is summer and in others winter, and that his ships following the same course,
some might arrive in a region where winter prevails and meet with storms, and when the other
reaches the same latitude it may be summer, and perfectly fine weather be enjoyed.  Thus, he
continued, when navigators have obtained more experience, they will know when to sail so as
to obtain summer during the whole of the voyage, and will then be able to come from and go
to the Cape of Good Hope without difficulty.

Notwithstanding the valuable information the astronomer Zacato had given the King, he was compelled,
with other Jews, to fly from Portugal, on account of the persecution to which they were subjected.
The King, Dom Manoel, at once gave orders for the completion of the ships which Dom Joao had
commenced, and directed that they should be as strong and serviceable as possible.  The sailors
who had gone on a previous expedition were collected, and the ships were supplied with double
the usual amount of sails and tackling, as well as with artillery, munitions, and provisions,
including all sorts of fruits, especially preserves, for the use of the sick, nor were priests
for confession forgotten.

Rich merchandise, and gold and silver articles, goblets, swords and daggers, shields and spears,
all highly ornamented, fit to present to the rulers of the countries to be visited, were also
collected.  All the slaves to be found, who could speak Eastern languages, were purchased,
that they might act as interpreters.  The King having made these preparations, had next to
fix on a leader for the expedition.  Among the cavaliers who attended his Court was one who
had already seen much service at sea, Vasco da Gama, a man of noble lineage, son of Estevan
da Gama, formerly Comptroller of the Household of King Dom Alfonso.  The King, summoning Vasco
into his presence, offered him the command of the squadron he proposed sending out to discover
a way to the East Indies by sea.

The cavalier at once gladly accepted the honourable charge, saying at the same time that he
had an elder brother, named Paulo da Gama, whom he requested the King to appoint as Captain-Major
to carry the royal standard.  The King, pleased with his modesty, and satisfied that he was
a man especially fitted for the undertaking, granted him his request, but desired that he himself
should carry out all the arrangements for the expedition.

Paulo, in consequence of a quarrel with the chief magistrate of Lisbon, had been compelled
to quit the city.  He was summoned back, and a free pardon granted him.  The two brothers having
selected a particular friend, Nicholas Coelho, to command one of the ships, the three, without
loss of time, set to work to prepare them for the voyage.  They were named respectively the
Saint Miguel, the Saint Gabriel, and Saint Raphael.  The crews were at once directed to learn
the arts of carpenters, rope-makers, caulkers, blacksmiths, and plank-makers, receiving additional
pay as an encouragement, while they were furnished with all the tools necessary for their crafts.
Da Gama also selected the most experienced masters and pilots, who now, instead of being guided
by their charts, would have to depend upon their own sagacity, their compasses, and lead-lines,
for running down strange coasts and entering hitherto unknown harbours.  To save the officers
and trained seamen as much as possible from risking their lives, da Gama begged the King to
order six men who had been condemned to death to be put on board each ship, that they might
be sent ashore in dangerous regions, or left in certain places, to acquire a knowledge of the
language and habits of the people.  These cut-throat gentlemen were, as may be supposed, afterwards
a source of no small trouble and anxiety to the commanders of the ships.

The preparations for the voyage being completed, the King and Queen, with their Court and many
of the nobles of the land, assembled in the cathedral of Lisbon, to hear Mass, and bid farewell
to the gallant explorers.  The three captains, richly dressed, advanced to the curtain behind
which the Royal Family had sat during the service, and dropping on their knees, kissed their
sovereign's hand, and expressed their readiness to expend their lives in the important undertaking
with which he had entrusted them.  They then, mounting their horses, and accompanied by numerous
nobles and gentlemen, as well as by a procession of priests and monks, with tapers in their
hands, chanting a litany, to which a great concourse of people uttered responses, rode down
to the harbour.  The King went with them in his barge as they joined their several ships, bestowing
on them his blessing, and earnestly praying that they might enjoy a prosperous voyage and return
home in safety. Vasco da Gama embarked in the Saint Raphael, Paulo in the Saint Gabriel, and
Nicholas Coelho in the Saint Miguel.  The ships were all of the same size, measuring about
one hundred and twenty tons, and each carried about eighty persons, officers and men.  They
were accompanied by a store ship of two hundred tons, under the command of Gonzalo Nunez, which
was to continue with them only a part of the way, and to supply them with provisions and stores.
It was on Saturday, the 8th of July, 1497, the anchors being weighed and the sails loosed,
that Vasco da Gama proceeded down the Tagus on his memorable voyage.

He first steered so as to reach the Cape de Verde Islands, where he had ordered the ships to
rendezvous in case of separation.

Having sighted the African coast, they again stood out to the westward, meeting with a heavy
gale, against which they had to beat for several days, until the crews were almost worn out,
and the ships received no little damage.  Being separated, as it was expected would be the
case, they all steered for the Cape de Verde, where Paulo da Gama, Coelho, Diaz, and Nunez
rejoined one another, but the Captain-Major had not arrived.

At length his ship made her appearance, when, to show their joy, they saluted him with salvoes
from their artillery, for fears had been entertained that he was lost.

Having taken in water and repaired the damaged spars and rigging, they again sailed.  Here
Diaz parted from his friends to proceed on his separate voyage.

After battling with wind and waves for five months, they entered a bay to which the name of
Saint Elena was given.  Here they set up an astrolabe of wood three spans in diameter, which
they mounted on as many poles in the manner of shears, to ascertain the sun's altitude.

While Vasco da Gama was thus employed with his pilots, he observed behind a hill two negroes,
apparently gathering herbs.  He immediately ordered his people to surround them, which they
did, one being caught.

As the poor captive was too frightened to understand the signs made, the Captain-Major sent
for two negro boys from his ship, and made them sit by him and eat and drink, to banish his
fears.  At length the negro appeared to have overcome his alarm, on which da Gama induced him
to point out by signs where his people were to be found.  Having given him a cap and some beads
and bells, the Captain-Major ordered him to be set at liberty, making signs to him to return
to his companions and tell them that if they would come they would receive similar articles.

The negro, fully comprehending what was desired, set off, and returned with a dozen men, to
whom various presents were made.  They appeared, however, not to value articles of gold and
silver and spices.  The next day upwards of forty more came, and were so familiar, that a man-at-arms
named Fernando Veloso begged permission to accompany them, and obtain more information about
their country.  While he was gone, Coelho remained on shore to look after the crews, who were
collecting wood and catching lobsters, while da Gama, not to be idle, went in chase of some
young whales.  Having speared a whale, the rope being made fast to the bow of the boat, the
animal in its struggles nearly upset her, but fortunately running into shallow water, offered
no further resistance.

As it was getting late in the day, the boats were about to return to the ships, when, just
as they were shoving off, Vasco da Gama saw Fernando Veloso, who was somewhat of a braggadocio,
coming rapidly down the hill, looking every now and then behind him.  On this the Captain-Major
directed Coelho, whose boat was nearest, to pull in and take him off. The sailors, however,
for the sake of frightening Fernando, rowed on slowly.

Before he reached the beach two negroes sprang out and seized him, when, as matters were becoming
serious, some sailors leaping on shore struck right and left at Fernando's assailants in a
way which brought blood from their noses.  Perceiving how their companions were being treated,
a number of other negroes rushed out, very nearly catching the boaster, and began throwing
stones and shooting arrows at Coelho's boat.  Fearing that matters might grow serious, Vasco
da Gama rowed in to try and pacify the natives; but before he could do so he received an arrow
through his leg, and the master of the Saint Gabriel and two seamen were also wounded.

Finding that nothing could induce the natives to be friendly, and Veloso, having been rescued,
Vasco da Gama ordered the boats to return to the ship, and then sent back a party of crossbow-men
to chastise the savages.

