London: Chapman & Hall, 193, Piccadilly. 1879. [All Rights Reserved.]

London: Bradbury, Agnew, & Co., Printers, Whitefriars

CONTENTS

  CHAPTER I.                                 PAGE
  INTRODUCTORY.--NUMBER ONE                     1

  CHAPTER II.
  INTRODUCTORY.--NUMBER TWO                     7

  CHAPTER III.
  LIFE AT MANOR CROSS                          13

  CHAPTER IV.
  AT THE DEANERY                               20

  CHAPTER V.
  MISS TALLOWAX IS SHOWN THE HOUSE             26

  CHAPTER VI.
  BAD TIDINGS                                  34

  CHAPTER VII.
  CROSS HALL GATE                              41

  CHAPTER VIII.
  PUGSBY BROOK                                 47

  CHAPTER IX.
  MRS. HOUGHTON                                52

  CHAPTER X.
  THE DEAN AS A SPORTING MAN                   61

  CHAPTER XI.
  LORD AND LADY GEORGE GO UP TO TOWN           66

  CHAPTER XII.
  MISS MILDMAY AND JACK DE BARON               72

  CHAPTER XIII.
  MORE NEWS FROM ITALY                         79

  CHAPTER XIV.
  "ARE WE TO CALL HIM POPENJOY?"               85

  CHAPTER XV.
  "DROP IT"                                    93

  CHAPTER XVI.
  ALL IS FISH THAT COMES TO HIS NET           100

  CHAPTER XVII.
  THE DISABILITIES                            106

  CHAPTER XVIII.
  LORD GEORGE UP IN LONDON                    112

  CHAPTER XIX.
  RATHER "BOISTEROUS"                         119

  CHAPTER XX.
  BETWEEN TWO STOOLS                          126

  CHAPTER XXI.
  THE MARQUIS COMES HOME                      132

  CHAPTER XXII.
  THE MARQUIS AMONG HIS FRIENDS               139

  CHAPTER XXIII.
  THE MARQUIS SEES HIS BROTHER                146

  CHAPTER XXIV.
  THE MARQUIS GOES INTO BROTHERTON            153

  CHAPTER XXV.
  LADY SUSANNA IN LONDON                      159

  CHAPTER XXVI.
  THE DEAN RETURNS TO TOWN                    166

  CHAPTER XXVII.
  THE BARONESS BANMANN AGAIN                  173

  CHAPTER XXVIII.
  "WHAT MATTER IF SHE DOES?"                  180

  CHAPTER XXIX.
  MR. HOUGHTON WANTS A GLASS OF SHERRY        186

  CHAPTER XXX.
  THE DEAN IS VERY BUSY                       193

  CHAPTER XXXI.
  THE MARQUIS MIGRATES TO LONDON              198

  CHAPTER XXXII.
  LORD GEORGE IS TROUBLED                     205

  CHAPTER XXXIII.
  CAPTAIN DE BARON                            213

  CHAPTER XXXIV.
  A DREADFUL COMMUNICATION                    220

  CHAPTER XXXV.
  "I DENY IT"                                 226

  CHAPTER XXXVI.
  POPENJOY IS POPENJOY                        235

  CHAPTER XXXVII.
  PREPARATIONS FOR THE BALL                   241

  CHAPTER XXXVIII.
  THE KAPPA-KAPPA                             248

  CHAPTER XXXIX.
  REBELLION                                   254

  CHAPTER XL.
  AS TO BLUEBEARD                             260

  CHAPTER XLI.
  SCUMBERG'S                                  268

  CHAPTER XLII.
  "NOT GO!"                                   276

  CHAPTER XLIII.
  REAL LOVE                                   284

  CHAPTER XLIV.
  WHAT THE BROTHERTON CLERGYMEN SAID ABOUT IT 288

  CHAPTER XLV.
  LADY GEORGE AT THE DEANERY                  293

  CHAPTER XLVI.
  LADY SARAH'S MISSION                        298

  CHAPTER XLVII.
  THAT YOUNG FELLOW IN THERE                  307

  CHAPTER XLVIII.
  THE MARQUIS MAKES A PROPOSITION             312

  CHAPTER XLIX.
  "WOULDN'T YOU COME HERE;--FOR A WEEK?"      320

  CHAPTER L.
  RUDHAM PARK                                 325

  CHAPTER LI.
  GUSS MILDMAY'S SUCCESS                      333

  CHAPTER LII.
  ANOTHER LOVER                               341

  CHAPTER LIII.
  POOR POPENJOY!                              346

  CHAPTER LIV.
  JACK DE BARON'S VIRTUE                      352

  CHAPTER LV.
  HOW COULD HE HELP IT?                       357

  CHAPTER LVI.
  SIR HENRY SAID IT WAS THE ONLY THING        365

  CHAPTER LVII.
  MR. KNOX HEARS AGAIN FROM THE MARQUIS       372

  CHAPTER LVIII.
  MRS. JONES' LETTER                          378

  CHAPTER LIX.
  BACK IN LONDON                              384

  CHAPTER LX.
  THE LAST OF THE BARONESS                    391

  CHAPTER LXI.
  THE NEWS COMES HOME                         397

  CHAPTER LXII.
  THE WILL                                    405

  CHAPTER LXIII.
  POPENJOY IS BORN AND CHRISTENED             410

  CHAPTER LXIV.
  CONCLUSION                                  418

IS HE POPENJOY?

CHAPTER I.

INTRODUCTORY.--NUMBER ONE.

I would that it were possible so to tell a story that a reader should beforehand know every
detail of it up to a certain point, or be so circumstanced that he might be supposed to know.
In telling the little novelettes of our life, we commence our narrations with the presumption
that these details are borne in mind, and though they be all forgotten, the stories come out
intelligible at last. "You remember Mary Walker. Oh yes, you do;--that pretty girl, but such
a queer temper! And how she was engaged to marry Harry Jones, and said she wouldn't at the
church-door, till her father threatened her with bread and water; and how they have been living
ever since as happy as two turtle-doves down in Devonshire,--till that scoundrel, Lieutenant
Smith, went to Bideford! Smith has been found dead at the bottom of a saw-pit. Nobody's sorry
for him. She's in a madhouse at Exeter; and Jones has disappeared, and couldn't have had more
than thirty shillings in his pocket." This is quite as much as anybody ought to want to know
previous to the unravelling of the tragedy of the Jones's. But such stories as those I have
to tell cannot be written after that fashion. We novelists are constantly twitted with being
long; and to the gentlemen who condescend to review us, and who take up our volumes with a
view to business rather than pleasure, we must be infinite in length and tedium. But the story
must be made intelligible from the beginning, or the real novel readers will not like it. The
plan of jumping at once into the middle has been often tried, and sometimes seductively enough
for a chapter or two; but the writer still has to hark back, and to begin again from the beginning,--not
always very comfortably after the abnormal brightness of his few opening pages; and the reader
who is then involved in some ancient family history, or long local explanation, feels himself
to have been defrauded. It is as though one were asked to eat boiled mutton after woodcocks,
caviare, or maccaroni cheese. I hold that it is better to have the boiled mutton first, if
boiled mutton there must be.

The story which I have to tell is something in its nature akin to that of poor Mrs. Jones,
who was happy enough down in Devonshire till that wicked Lieutenant Smith came and persecuted
her; not quite so tragic, perhaps, as it is stained neither by murder nor madness. But before
I can hope to interest readers in the perplexed details of the life of a not unworthy lady,
I must do more than remind them that they do know, or might have known, or should have known
the antecedents of my personages. I must let them understand how it came to pass that so pretty,
so pert, so gay, so good a girl as Mary Lovelace, without any great fault on her part, married
a man so grim, so gaunt, so sombre, and so old as Lord George Germain. It will not suffice
to say that she had done so. A hundred and twenty little incidents must be dribbled into the
reader's intelligence, many of them, let me hope, in such manner that he shall himself be insensible
to the process. But unless I make each one of them understood and appreciated by my ingenious,
open-hearted, rapid reader,--by my reader who will always have his fingers impatiently ready
to turn the page,--he will, I know, begin to masticate the real kernel of my story with infinite
prejudices against Mary Lovelace.

Mary Lovelace was born in a country parsonage; but at the age of fourteen, when her life was
in truth beginning, was transferred by her father to the deanery of Brotherton. Dean Lovelace
had been a fortunate man in life. When a poor curate, a man of very humble origin, with none
of what we commonly call Church interest, with nothing to recommend him but a handsome person,
moderate education, and a quick intellect, he had married a lady with a considerable fortune,
whose family had bought for him a living. Here he preached himself into fame. It is not at
all to be implied from this that he had not deserved the fame he acquired. He had been active
and resolute in his work, holding opinions which, if not peculiar, were at any rate advanced,
and never being afraid of the opinions which he held. His bishop had not loved him, nor had
he made himself dear to the bench of bishops generally. He had the reputation of having been
in early life a sporting parson. He had written a book which had been characterised as tending
to infidelity, and had more than once been invited to state dogmatically what was his own belief.
He had never quite done so, and had then been made a dean. Brotherton, as all the world knows,
is a most interesting little city, neither a Manchester nor a Salisbury; full of architectural
excellencies, given to literature, and fond of hospitality. The Bishop of Brotherton,--who
did not love the dean,--was not a general favourite, being strict, ascetic, and utterly hostile
to all compromises. At first there were certain hostile passages between him and the new dean.
But the Dean, who was and is urbanity itself, won the day, and soon became certainly the most
popular man in Brotherton. His wife's fortune doubled his clerical income, and he lived in
all respects as a dean ought to live. His wife had died very shortly after his promotion, and
he had been left with one only daughter on whom to lavish his cares and his affection.

Now we must turn for a few lines to the family of Lord George Germain. Lord George was the
brother of the Marquis of Brotherton, whose family residence was at Manor Cross, about nine
miles from the city. The wealth of the family of the Germains was not equal to their rank,
and the circumstances of the family were not made more comfortable by the peculiarities of
the present marquis. He was an idle, self-indulgent, ill-conditioned man, who found that it
suited his tastes better to live in Italy, where his means were ample, than on his own property,
where he would have been comparatively a poor man. And he had a mother and four sisters, and
a brother with whom he would hardly have known how to deal had he remained at Manor Cross.
As it was, he allowed them to keep the house, while he simply took the revenue of the estate.
With the marquis I do not know that it will be necessary to trouble the reader much at present.
The old marchioness and her daughters lived always at Manor Cross in possession of a fine old
house in which they could have entertained half the county, and a magnificent park,--which,
however, was let for grazing up to the garden-gates,--and a modest income unequal to the splendour
which should have been displayed by the inhabitants of Manor Cross.

And here also lived Lord George Germain, to whom at a very early period of his life had been
entrusted the difficult task of living as the head of his family with little or no means for
the purpose. When the old Marquis died,--very suddenly, and soon after the Dean's coming to
Brotherton,--the widow had her jointure, some two thousand a year, out of the property, and
the younger children had each a small settled sum. That the four ladies,--Sarah, Alice, Susanna,
and Amelia,--should have sixteen thousand pounds among them, did not seem to be so very much
amiss to those who knew how poor was the Germain family; but what was Lord George to do with
four thousand pounds, and no means of earning a shilling? He had been at Eton, and had taken
a degree at Oxford with credit, but had gone into no profession. There was a living in the
family, and both father and mother had hoped that he would consent to take orders; but he had
declined to do so, and there had seemed to be nothing for him but to come and live at Manor
Cross. Then the old Marquis had died, and the elder brother, who had long been abroad, remained
abroad. Lord George, who was the youngest of the family, and at that time about five-and-twenty,
remained at Manor Cross, and became not only ostensibly but in very truth the managing head
of the family.

He was a man whom no one could despise, and in whom few could find much to blame. In the first
place he looked his poverty in the face, and told himself that he was a very poor man. His
bread he might earn by looking after his mother and sisters, and he knew no other way in which
he could do so. He was a just steward, spending nothing to gratify his own whims, acknowledging
on all sides that he had nothing of his own, till some began to think that he was almost proud
of his poverty. Among the ladies of the family, his mother and sisters, it was of course said
that George must marry money. In such a position there is nothing else that the younger son
of a marquis can do. But Lord George was a person somewhat difficult of instruction in such
a matter. His mother was greatly afraid of him. Among his sisters Lady Sarah alone dared to
say much to him; and even to her teaching on this subject he turned a very deaf ear. "Quite
so, George," she said; "quite so. No man with a spark of spirit would marry a woman for her
money,"--and she laid a great stress on the word "for,"--"but I do not see why a lady who has
money should be less fit to be loved than one who has none. Miss Barm is a most charming young
woman, of excellent manners, admirably educated, if not absolutely handsome, quite of distinguished
appearance, and she has forty thousand pounds. We all liked her when she was here." But there
came a very black frown upon Lord George's brow, and then even Lady Sarah did not dare to speak
again in favour of Miss Barm.

Then there came a terrible blow. Lord George Germain was in love with his cousin, Miss De Baron!
It would be long to tell, and perhaps unnecessary, how that young lady had made herself feared
by the ladies of Manor Cross. Her father, a man of birth and fortune, but not perhaps with
the best reputation in the world, had married a Germain of the last generation, and lived,
when in the country, about twenty miles from Brotherton. He was a good deal on the turf, spent
much of his time at card-playing clubs, and was generally known as a fast man. But he paid
his way, had never put himself beyond the pale of society, and was, of course, a gentleman.
As to Adelaide de Baron, no one doubted her dash, her wit, her grace, or her toilet. Some also
gave her credit for beauty; but there were those who said that, though she would behave herself
decently at Manor Cross and houses of that class, she could be loud elsewhere. Such was the
lady whom Lord George loved, and it may be conceived that this passion was distressing to the
ladies of Manor Cross. In the first place, Miss De Baron's fortune was doubtful and could not
be large; and then--she certainly was not such a wife as Lady Brotherton and her daughters
desired for the one male hope of the family.

But Lord George was very resolute, and for a time it seemed to them all that Miss de Baron,--of
whom the reader will see much if he go through with our story,--was not unwilling to share
the poverty of her noble lover. Of Lord George personally something must be said. He was a
tall, handsome, dark-browed man, silent generally and almost gloomy, looking, as such men do,
as though he were always revolving deep things in his mind, but revolving in truth things not
very deep,--how far the money would go, and whether it would be possible to get a new pair
of carriage-horses for his mother. Birth and culture had given to him a look of intellect greater
than he possessed; but I would not have it thought that he traded on this or endeavoured to
seem other than he was. He was simple, conscientious, absolutely truthful, full of prejudices,
and weak-minded. Early in life he had been taught to entertain certain ideas as to religion
by those with whom he had lived at college, and had therefore refused to become a clergyman.
The bishop of the diocese had attacked him; but, though weak, he was obstinate. The Dean and
he had become friends, and so he had learned to think himself in advance of the world. But
yet he knew himself to be a backward, slow, unappreciative man. He was one who could bear reproach
from no one else, but who never praised himself even to himself.

But we must return to his love, which is that which now concerns us. His mother and sisters
altogether failed to persuade him. Week after week he went over to Baronscourt, and at last
threw himself at Adelaide's feet. This was five years after his father's death, when he was
already thirty years old. Miss De Baron, though never a favourite at Manor Cross, knew intimately
the history of the family. The present marquis was over forty, and as yet unmarried;--but then
Lord George was absolutely a pauper. In that way she might probably become a marchioness; but
then of what use would life be to her, should she be doomed for the next twenty years to live
simply as one of the ladies of Manor Cross? She consulted her father, but he seemed to be quite
indifferent, merely reminding her that though he would be ready to do everything handsomely
for her wedding, she would have no fortune till after his death. She consulted her glass, and
told herself that, without self-praise, she must regard herself as the most beautiful woman
of her own acquaintance. She consulted her heart, and found that in that direction she need
not trouble herself. It would be very nice to be a marchioness, but she certainly was not in
love with Lord George. He was handsome, no doubt--very handsome; but she was not sure that
she cared much for men being handsome. She liked men that "had some go in them," who were perhaps
a little fast, and who sympathised with her own desire for amusement. She could not bring herself
to fall in love with Lord George. But then, the rank of a marquis is very high! She told Lord
George that she must take time to consider.

When a young lady takes time to consider she has, as a rule, given way, Lord George felt it
to be so, and was triumphant. The ladies at Manor Cross thought that they saw what was coming,
and were despondent. The whole county declared that Lord George was about to marry Miss De
Baron. The county feared that they would be very poor; but the recompence would come at last,
as the present marquis was known not to be a marrying man. Lady Sarah was mute with despair.
Lady Alice had declared that there was nothing for them but to make the best of it. Lady Susanna,
who had high ideas of aristocratic duty, thought that George was forgetting himself. Lady Amelia,
who had been snubbed by Miss De Baron, shut herself up and wept. The Marchioness took to her
bed. Then, exactly at the same time, two things happened, both of which were felt to be of
vital importance at Manor Cross. Miss De Baron wrote a most determined refusal to her lover,
and old Mr. Tallowax died. Now old Mr. Tallowax had been Dean Lovelace's father-in-law, and
had never had a child but she who had been the Dean's wife.

Lord George did in truth suffer dreadfully. There are men to whom such a disappointment as
this causes enduring physical pain,--as though they had become suddenly affected with some
acute and yet lasting disease. And there are men, too, who suffer the more because they cannot
conceal the pain. Such a man was Lord George. He shut himself up for months at Manor Cross,
and would see no one. At first it was his intention to try again, but very shortly after the
letter to himself came one from Miss De Baron to Lady Alice, declaring that she was about to
be married immediately to one Mr. Houghton; and that closed the matter. Mr. Houghton's history
was well known to the Manor Cross family. He was a friend of Mr. De Baron, very rich, almost
old enough to be the girl's father, and a great gambler. But he had a house in Berkeley Square,
kept a stud of horses in Northamptonshire, and was much thought of at Newmarket. Adelaide De
Baron explained to Lady Alice that the marriage had been made up by her father, whose advice
she had thought it her duty to take. The news was told to Lord George, and then it was found
expedient never to mention further the name of Miss De Baron within the walls of Manor Cross.

But the death of Mr. Tallowax was also very important. Of late the Dean of Brotherton had become
very intimate at Manor Cross. For some years the ladies had been a little afraid of him, as
they were by no means given to free opinions. But he made his way. They were decidedly high;
the bishop was notoriously low; and thus, in a mild manner, without malignity on either side,
Manor Cross and the Palace fell out. Their own excellent young clergyman was snubbed in reference
to his church postures, and Lady Sarah was offended. But the Dean's manners were perfect. He
never trod on any one's toes. He was rich, and as far as birth went, nobody,--but he knew how
much was due to the rank of the Germains. In all matters he obliged them, and had lately made
the deanery very pleasant to Lady Alice,--to whom a widowed canon at Brotherton was supposed
to be partial. The interest between the deanery and Manor Cross was quite close; and now Mr.
Tallowax had died leaving the greater part of his money to the Dean's daughter.

When a man suffers from disappointed love he requires consolation. Lady Sarah boldly declared
her opinion,--in female conclave of course,--that one pretty girl is as good to a man as another,
and might be a great deal better if she were at the same time better mannered and better dowered
than the other. Mary Lovelace, when her grandfather died, was only seventeen. Lord George was
at that time over thirty. But a man of thirty is still a young man, and a girl of seventeen
may be a young woman. If the man be not more than fifteen years older than the woman the difference
of age can hardly be regarded as an obstacle. And then Mary was much loved at Manor Cross.
She had been a most engaging child, was clever, well-educated, very pretty, with a nice sparkling
way, fond of pleasure no doubt, but not as yet instructed to be fast. And now she would have
at once thirty thousand pounds, and in course of time would be her father's heiress.

All the ladies at Manor Cross put their heads together,--as did also Mr. Canon Holdenough,
who, while these things had been going on, had been accepted by Lady Alice. They fooled Lord
George to the top of his bent, smoothing him down softly amidst the pangs of his love, not
suggesting Mary Lovelace at first, but still in all things acting in that direction. And they
so far succeeded that within twelve months of the marriage of Adelaide De Baron to Mr. Houghton,
when Mary Lovelace was not yet nineteen and Lord George was thirty-three, with some few grey
hairs on his handsome head, Lord George did go over to the deanery and offer himself as a husband
to Mary Lovelace.

CHAPTER II.

INTRODUCTORY NUMBER TWO.

"What ought I to do, papa?" The proposition was in the first instance made to Mary through
the Dean. Lord George had gone to the father, and the father with many protestations of personal
goodwill, had declared that in such a matter he would not attempt to bias his daughter. "That
the connection would be personally agreeable to myself, I need hardly say," said the Dean.
"For myself, I have no objection to raise. But I must leave it to Mary. I can only say that
you have my permission to address her." But the first appeal to Mary was made by her father
himself, and was so made in conformity with his own advice. Lord George, when he left the deanery,
had thus arranged it, but had been hardly conscious that the Dean had advised such an arrangement.
And it may be confessed between ourselves,--between me and my readers, who in these introductory
chapters may be supposed to be looking back together over past things,--that the Dean was from
the first determined that Lord George should be his son-in-law. What son-in-law could he find
that would redound more to his personal credit, or better advance his personal comfort. As
to his daughter, where could a safer husband be found! And then she might in this way become
a marchioness! His own father had kept livery stables at Bath. Her other grandfather had been
a candlemaker in the Borough. "What ought I to do, papa?" Mary asked, when the proposition
was first made to her. She of course admired the Germains, and appreciated, at perhaps more
than its full value the notice she had received from them. She had thought Lord George to be
the handsomest man she had ever seen. She had heard of his love for Miss De Baron, and had
felt for him. She was not as yet old enough to know how dull was the house at Manor Cross,
or how little of resource she might find in the companionship of such a man as Lord George.
Of her own money she knew almost nothing. Not as yet had her fortune become as a carcase to
the birds. And now, should she decide in Lord George's favour, would she be saved at any rate
from that danger.

"You must consult your own feelings, my dear," said her father. She looked up to him in blank
dismay. She had as yet no feelings.

"But, papa----"

"Of course, my darling, there is a great deal to be said in favour of such a marriage. The
man himself is excellent,--in all respects excellent. I do not know that there is a young man
of higher principles than Lord George in the whole county."

"He is hardly a young man, papa."

"Not a young man! He is thirty. I hope you do not call that old. I doubt whether men in his
position of life should ever marry at an earlier age. He is not rich."

"Would that matter?"

"No; I think not. But of that you must judge. Of course with your fortune you would have a
right to expect a richer match. But though he has not money, he has much that money gives.
He lives in a large house with noble surroundings. The question is whether you can like him?"

"I don't know, papa." Every word she spoke she uttered hesitatingly. When she had asked whether
"that would matter," she had hardly known what she was saying. The thing was so important to
her, and yet so entirely mysterious and as yet unconsidered, that she could not collect her
thoughts sufficiently for proper answers to her father's sensible but not too delicate inquiries.
The only ideas that had really struck her were that he was grand and handsome, but very old.

"If you can love him I think you would be happy," said the Dean. "Of course you must look at
it all round. He will probably live to be the Marquis of Brotherton. From all that I hear I
do not think that his brother is likely to marry. In that case you would be the Marchioness
of Brotherton, and the property, though not great, would then be handsome. In the meanwhile
you would be Lady George Germain, and would live at Manor Cross. I should stipulate on your
behalf that you should have a house of your own in town, for, at any rate, a portion of the
year. Manor Cross is a fine place, but you would find it dull if you were to remain there always.
A married woman too should always have some home of her own."

"You want me to do it, papa?"

"Certainly not. I want you to please yourself. If I find that you please yourself by accepting
this man, I myself shall be better pleased than if you please yourself by rejecting him; but
you shall never know that by my manner. I shall not put you on bread and water, and lock you
up in the garret either if you accept him, or if you reject him." The Dean smiled as he said
this, as all the world at Brotherton knew that he had never in his life even scolded his daughter.

"And you, papa?"

"I shall come and see you, and you will come and see me. I shall get on well enough. I have
always known that you would leave me soon. I am prepared for that." There was something in
this which grated on her feelings. She had, perhaps, taught herself to believe that she was
indispensable to her father's happiness. Then after a pause he continued: "Of course you must
be ready to see Lord George when he comes again, and you ought to remember, my dear, that marquises
do not grow on every hedge."

With great care and cunning workmanship one may almost make a silk purse out of a sow's ear,
but not quite. The care which Dean Lovelace had bestowed upon the operation in regard to himself
had been very great, and the cunning workmanship was to be seen in every plait and every stitch.
But still there was something left of the coarseness of the original material. Of all this
poor Mary knew nothing at all; but yet she did not like being told of marquises and hedges
where her heart was concerned. She had wanted,--had unconsciously wanted,--some touch of romance
from her father to satisfy the condition in which she found herself. But there was no touch
of romance there; and when she was left to herself to work the matter out in her own heart
and in her own mind she was unsatisfied.

Two or three days after this Mary received notice that her lover was coming. The Dean had seen
him and had absolutely fixed a time. To poor Mary this seemed to be most unromantic, most unpromising.
And though she had thought of nothing else since she had first heard of Lord George's intention,
though she had laid awake struggling to make up her mind, she had reached no conclusion. It
had become quite clear to her that her father was anxious for the marriage, and there was much
in it which recommended it to herself. The old elms of the park of Manor Cross were very tempting.
She was not indifferent to being called My Lady. Though she had been slightly hurt when told
that marquises did not grow on hedges, still she knew that it would be much to be a marchioness.
And the man himself was good, and not only good but very handsome. There was a nobility about
him beyond that of his family. Those prone to ridicule might perhaps have called him Werter-faced,
but to Mary there was a sublimity in this. But then was she in love with him?

She was a sweet, innocent, ladylike, high-spirited, joyous creature. Those struggles of her
father to get rid of the last porcine taint, though not quite successful as to himself, had
succeeded thoroughly in regard to her. It comes at last with due care, and the due care had
here been taken. She was so nice that middle-aged men wished themselves younger that they might
make love to her, or older that they might be privileged to kiss her. Though keenly anxious
for amusement, though over head and ears in love with sport and frolic, no unholy thought had
ever polluted her mind. That men were men, and that she was a woman, had of course been considered
by her. Oh, that it might some day be her privilege to love some man with all her heart and
all her strength, some man who should be, at any rate to her, the very hero of heroes, the
cynosure of her world! It was thus that she considered the matter. There could surely nothing
be so glorious as being well in love. And the one to be thus worshipped must of course become
her husband. Otherwise would her heart be broken, and perhaps his,--and all would be tragedy.
But with tragedy she had no sympathy. The loved one must become her husband. But the pictures
she had made to herself of him were not at all like Lord George Germain. He was to be fair,
with laughing eyes, quick in repartee, always riding well to hounds. She had longed to hunt
herself, but her father had objected. He must be sharp enough sometimes to others, though ever
soft to her, with a silken moustache and a dimpled chin, and perhaps twenty-four years old.
Lord George was dark, his eyes never laughed; he was silent generally, and never went out hunting
at all. He was dignified, and tall, very handsome, no doubt,--and a lord. The grand question
was that;--could she love him? Could she make another picture, and paint him as her hero? There
were doubtless heroic points in the side wave of that coal-black lock,--coal-black where the
few grey hairs had not yet shown themselves, in his great height, and solemn polished manners.

When her lover came, she could only remember that if she accepted him she would please everybody.
The Dean had taken occasion to assure her that the ladies at Manor Cross would receive her
with open arms. But on this occasion she did not accept him. She was very silent, hardly able
to speak a word, and almost sinking out of sight when Lord George endeavoured to press his
suit by taking her hand. But she contrived at last to make him the very answer that Adelaide
De Baron had made. She must take time to think of it. But the answer came from her in a different
spirit. She at any rate knew as soon as it was given that it was her destiny in life to become
Lady George Germain. She did not say "Yes" at the moment, only because it is so hard for a
girl to tell a man that she will marry him at the first asking! He made his second offer by
letter, to which the Dean wrote the reply:--

     "My dear Lord George,

     "My daughter is gratified by your affection, and flattered by your
     manner of showing it. A few plain words are perhaps the best. She
     will be happy to receive you as her future husband, whenever it
     may suit you to come to the deanery.

     "Yours affectionately,

     "HENRY LOVELACE."

Immediately upon this the conduct of Lord George was unexceptionable. He hurried over to Brotherton,
and as he clasped his girl in his arms, he told her that he was the happiest man in England.
Poor as he was he made her a handsome present, and besought her if she had any mercy, any charity,
any love for him, to name an early day. Then came the four ladies from Manor Cross,--for Lady
Alice had already become Lady Alice Holdenough,--and caressed her, and patted her, and petted
her, and told her that she should be as welcome as flowers in May. Her father, too, congratulated
her with more of enthusiasm, and more also of demonstrated feeling than she had ever before
seen him evince. He had been very unwilling, he said, to express any strong opinion of his
own. It had always been his desire that his girl should please herself. But now that the thing
was settled he could assure her of his thorough satisfaction. It was all that he could have
desired; and now he would be ready at any time to lay himself down, and be at rest. Had his
girl married a spendthrift lord, even a duke devoted to pleasure and iniquity, it would have
broken his heart. But he would now confess that the aristocracy of the county had charms for
him; and he was not ashamed to rejoice that his child should be accepted within their pale.
Then he brushed a real tear from his eyes, and Mary threw herself into his arms. The tear was
real, and in all that he said there was not an insincere word. It was to him a very glory of
glories that his child should be in the way of becoming the Marchioness of Brotherton. It was
even a great glory that she should be Lady George Germain. The Dean never forgot the livery
stable, and owned day and night that God had been very good to him.

It was soon settled that Mary was to be allowed three months for preparation, and that the
marriage was to be solemnized in June. Of course she had much to do in preparing her wedding
garments, but she had before her a much more difficult task than that at which she worked most
sedulously. It was now the great business of her life to fall in love with Lord George. She
must get rid of that fair young man with the silky moustache and the darling dimple. The sallow,
the sublime, and the Werter-faced must be made to take the place of laughing eyes and pink
cheeks. She did work very hard, and sometimes, as she thought, successfully. She came to a
positive conclusion that he was the handsomest man she ever saw, and that she certainly liked
the few grey hairs. That his manner was thoroughly noble no one could doubt. If he were seen
merely walking down the street he would surely be taken for a great man. He was one of whom,
as her husband, she could be always proud;--and that she felt to be a great thing. That he
would not play lawn tennis, and that he did not care for riding were points in his character
to be regretted. Indeed, though she made some tenderly cautious inquiries, she could not find
what were his amusements. She herself was passionately fond of dancing, but he certainly did
not dance. He talked to her, when he did talk, chiefly of his family, of his own poverty, of
the goodness of his mother and sisters, and of the great regret which they all felt that they
should have been deserted by the head of their family.

"He has now been away," said Lord George, "for ten years; but not improbably he may return
soon, and then we shall have to leave Manor Cross."

"Leave Manor Cross!"

"Of course we must do so should he come home. The place belongs to him, and we are only there
because it has not suited him to reside in England."

This he said with the utmost solemnity, and the statement had been produced by the answer which
the Marquis had made to a letter announcing to him his brother's marriage. The Marquis had
never been a good correspondent. To the ladies of the house he never wrote at all, though Lady
Sarah favoured him with a periodical quarterly letter. To his agent, and less frequently to
his brother, he would write curt, questions on business, never covering more than one side
of a sheet of notepaper, and always signed "Yours, B." To these the inmates of Manor Cross
had now become accustomed, and little was thought of them; but on this occasion he had written
three or four complete sentences, which had been intended to have, and which did have, a plain
meaning. He congratulated his brother, but begged Lord George to bear in mind that he himself
might not improbably want Manor Cross for his own purpose before long. If Lord George thought
it would be agreeable, Mr. Knox, the agent, might have instructions to buy Miss Lovelace a
present. Of this latter offer Lord George took no notice; but the intimation concerning the
house sat gravely on his mind.

The Dean did exactly as he had said with reference to the house in town. Of course it was necessary
that there should be arrangements as to money between him and Lord George, in which he was
very frank. Mary's money was all her own,--giving her an income of nearly £1500 per annum.
The Dean was quite of opinion that this should be left to Lord George's management, but he
thought it right as Mary's father to stipulate that his daughter should have a home of her
own. Then he suggested a small house in town, and expressed an opinion that his daughter should
be allowed to live there six months in the year. The expense of such a sojourn might be in
some degree shared by himself if Lord George would receive him for a month or so in the spring.
And so the thing was settled, Lord George pledging himself that the house should be taken.
The arrangement was distasteful to him in many ways, but it did not seem to be unreasonable,
and he could not oppose it. Then came the letter from the Marquis. Lord George did not consider
himself bound to speak of that letter to the Dean; but he communicated the threat to Mary.
Mary thought nothing about it, except that her future brother-in-law must be a very strange man.

During all those three months she strove very hard to be in love, and sometimes she thought
that she had succeeded. In her little way she studied the man's character, and did all she
could to ingratiate herself with him. Walking seemed to be his chief relaxation, and she was
always ready to walk with him. She tried to make herself believe that he was profoundly wise.
And then, when she failed in other things, she fell back upon his beauty. Certainly she had
never seen a handsomer face, either on a man's shoulders or in a picture. And so they were married.

Now I have finished my introduction,--having married my heroine to my hero,--and have, I hope,
instructed my reader as to those hundred and twenty incidents, of which I spoke--not too tediously.
If he will go back and examine, he will find that they are all there. But perhaps it will be
better for us both that he should be in quiet possession of them without any such examination.

CHAPTER III.

LIFE AT MANOR CROSS.

The married couple passed their honeymoon in Ireland, Lady Brotherton having a brother, an
Irish peer, who lent them for a few months his house on the Blackwater. The marriage, of course,
was celebrated in the cathedral, and equally of course, the officiating clergymen were the
Dean and Canon Holdenough. On the day before the marriage Lord George was astonished to find
how rich a man was his father-in-law.

"Mary's fortune is her own," he said; "but I should like to give her something. Perhaps I had
better give it to you on her behalf."

Then he shuffled a cheque for a thousand pounds into Lord George's hands. He moreover gave
his daughter a hundred pounds in notes on the morning of the wedding, and thus acted the part
of the benevolent father and father-in-law to a miracle. It may be acknowledged here that the
receipt of the money removed a heavy weight from Lord George's heart. He was himself so poor,
and at the same time so scrupulous, that he had lacked funds sufficient for the usual brightness
of a wedding tour. He would not take his mother's money, nor lessen his own small patrimony;
but now it seemed that wealth was showered on him from the deanery.

Perhaps a sojourn in Ireland did as well as anything could towards assisting the young wife
in her object of falling in love with her husband. He would hardly have been a sympathetic
companion in Switzerland or Italy, as he did not care for lakes or mountains. But Ireland was
new to him and new to her, and he was glad to have an opportunity of seeing something of a
people as to whom so little is really known in England. And at Ballycondra, on the Blackwater,
they were justified in feeling a certain interest in the welfare of the tenants around them.
There was something to be done, and something of which they could talk. Lord George, who couldn't
hunt, and wouldn't dance, and didn't care for mountains, could enquire with some zeal how much
wages a peasant might earn, and what he would do with it when earned. It interested him to
learn that whereas an English labourer will certainly eat and drink his wages from week to
week,--so that he could not be trusted to pay any sum half-yearly,--an Irish peasant, though
he be half starving, will save his money for the rent. And Mary, at his instance, also cared
for these things. It was her gift, as with many women, to be able to care for everything. It
was, perhaps, her misfortune that she was apt to care too much for many things. The honeymoon
in Ireland answered its purpose, and Lady George, when she came back to Manor Cross, almost
thought that she had succeeded. She was at any rate able to assure her father that she had
been as happy as the day was long, and that he was absolutely--"perfect."

This assurance of perfection the Dean no doubt took at its proper value. He patted his daughter's
cheek as she made it, and kissed her, and told her that he did not doubt but that with a little
care she might make herself a happy woman. The house in town had already been taken under his
auspices, but of course was not to be inhabited yet.

It was a very small but a very pretty little house, in a quaint little street called Munster
Court, near Storey's Gate, with a couple of windows looking into St. James's Park. It was now
September, and London for the present was out of the question. Indeed, it had been arranged
that Lord George and his wife should remain at Manor Cross till after Christmas. But the house
had to be furnished, and the Dean evinced his full understanding of the duties of a father-in-law
in such an emergency. This, indeed, was so much the case that Lord George became a little uneasy.
He had the greater part of the thousand pounds left, which he insisted on expending,--and thought
that that should have sufficed. But the Dean explained in his most cordial manner,--and no
man's manner could be more cordial than the Dean's,--that Mary's fortune from Mr. Tallowax
had been unexpected, that having had but one child he intended to do well by her, and that,
therefore, he could now assist in starting her well in life without doing himself a damage.
The house in this way was decorated and furnished, and sundry journeys up to London served
to brighten the autumn which might otherwise have been dull and tedious.

At this period of her life two things acting together, and both acting in opposition to her
anticipations of life, surprised the young bride not a little. The one was her father's manner
of conversation with her, and the other was her husband's. The Dean had never been a stern
parent; but he had been a clergyman, and as a clergyman he had inculcated a certain strictness
of life,--a very modified strictness, indeed, but something more rigid than might have come
from him had he been a lawyer or a country gentleman. Mary had learned that he wished her to
attend the cathedral services, and to interest herself respecting them, and she had always
done so. He had explained to her that, although he kept a horse for her to ride, he, as the
Dean of Brotherton, did not wish her to be seen in the hunting field. In her dress, her ornaments,
her books, her parties, there had been always something to mark slightly her clerical belongings.
She had never chafed against this because she loved her father and was naturally obedient;
but she had felt something perhaps of a soft regret. Now her father, whom she saw very frequently,
never spoke to her of any duties. How should her house be furnished? In what way would she
lay herself out for London society? What enjoyments of life could she best secure? These seemed
to be the matters on which he was most intent. It occurred to her that when speaking to her
of the house in London he never once asked her what church she would attend; and that when
she spoke with pleasure of being so near the Abbey, he paid little or no attention to her remark.
And then, too, she felt, rather than perceived, that in his counsels to her he almost intimated
that she must have a plan of life different from her husband's. There were no such instructions
given, but it almost seemed as though this were implied. He took it for granted that her life
was to be gay and bright, though he seemed to take it also for granted that Lord George did
not wish to be gay and bright.

All this surprised her. But it did not perhaps surprise her so much as the serious view of
life which her husband from day to day impressed upon her. That hero of her early dreams, that
man with the light hair and the dimpled chin, whom she had not as yet quite forgotten, had
never scolded her, had never spoken a serious word to her, and had always been ready to provide
her with amusements that never palled. But Lord George made out a course of reading for her,--so
much for the two hours after breakfast, so much for the hour before dressing,--so much for
the evening; and also a table of results to be acquired in three months,--in six months,--and
so much by the close of the first year; and even laid down the sum total of achievements to
be produced by a dozen years of such work! Of course she determined to do as he would have
her do. The great object of her life was to love him; and, of course, if she really loved him,
she would comply with his wishes. She began her daily hour of Gibbon after breakfast with great
zeal. But there was present to her an idea that if the Gibbon had come from her father, and
the instigations to amuse herself from her husband, it would have been better.

These things surprised her; but there was another matter that vexed her. Before she had been
six weeks at Manor Cross she found that the ladies set themselves up as her tutors. It was
not the Marchioness who offended her so much as her three sisters-in-law. The one of the family
whom she had always liked best had been also liked best by Mr. Holdenough, and had gone to
live next door to her father in the Close. Lady Alice, though perhaps a little tiresome, was
always gentle and good-natured. Her mother-in-law was too much in awe of her own eldest daughter
ever to scold anyone. But Lady Sarah could be very severe; and Lady Susanna could be very stiff;
and Lady Amelia always re-echoed what her elder sisters said.

Lady Sarah was by far the worst. She was forty years old, and looked as though she were fifty
and wished to be thought sixty. That she was, in truth, very good, no one either at Manor Cross
or in Brotherton or any of the parishes around ever doubted. She knew every poor woman on the
estate, and had a finger in the making of almost every petticoat worn. She spent next to nothing
on herself, giving away almost all her own little income. She went to church whatever was the
weather. She was never idle and never wanted to be amused. The place in the carriage which
would naturally have been hers she had always surrendered to one of her sisters when there
had been five ladies at Manor Cross, and now she surrendered again to her brother's wife. She
spent hours daily in the parish school. She was doctor and surgeon to the poor people,--never
sparing herself. But she was harsh-looking, had a harsh voice, and was dictatorial. The poor
people had become used to her and liked her ways. The women knew that her stitches never gave
way, and the men had a wholesome confidence in her medicines, her plasters, and her cookery.
But Lady George Germain did not see by what right she was to be made subject to her sister-in-law's
jurisdiction.

Church matters did not go quite on all fours at Manor Cross. The ladies, as has before been
said, were all high, the Marchioness being the least exigeant in that particular, and Lady
Amelia the most so. Ritual, indeed, was the one point of interest in Lady Amelia's life. Among
them there was assent enough for daily comfort; but Lord George was in this respect, and in
this respect only, a trouble to them. He never declared himself openly, but it seemed to them
that he did not care much about church at all. He would generally go of a Sunday morning; but
there was a conviction that he did so chiefly to oblige his mother. Nothing was ever said of
this. There was probably present to the ladies some feeling, not uncommon, that religion is
not so necessary for men as for women. But Lady George was a woman.

And Lady George was also the daughter of a clergyman. There was now a double connexion between
Manor Cross and the Close at Brotherton. Mr. Canon Holdenough, who was an older man than the
Dean, and had been longer known in the diocese, was a most unexceptional clergyman, rather
high, leaning towards the high and dry, very dignified, and quite as big a man in Brotherton
as the Dean himself. The Dean was, indeed, the Dean; but Mr. Holdenough was uncle to a baronet,
and the Holdenoughs had been Holdenoughs when the Conqueror came. And then he also had a private
income of his own. Now all this gave to the ladies at Manor Cross a peculiar right to be great
in church matters,--so that Lady Sarah was able to speak with much authority to Mary when she
found that the bride, though a Dean's daughter, would only go to two services a week, and would
shirk one of them if the weather gave the slightest colouring of excuse.

"You used to like the cathedral services," Lady Sarah said to her, one day, when Mary had declined
to go to the parish church, to sing the praises of St. Processus.

"That was because they were cathedral services," said Mary.

"You mean to say that you attended the House of God because the music was good!" Mary had not
thought the subject over sufficiently to be enabled to say that good music is supplied with
the object of drawing large congregations, so she only shrugged her shoulders. "I, too, like
good music, dear; but I do not think the want of it should keep me from church." Mary again
shrugged her shoulders, remembering, as she did so, that her sister-in-law did not know one
tune from another. Lady Alice was the only one of the family who had ever studied music.

"Even your papa goes on Saints' days," continued Lady Sarah, conveying a sneer against the
Dean by that word "even."

"Papa is Dean. I suppose he has to go."

"He would not go to church, I suppose, unless he approved of going."

The subject then dropped. Lady George had not yet arrived at that sort of snarling home intimacy,
which would have justified her in telling Lady Sarah that if she wanted a lesson at all, she
would prefer to take it from her husband.

The poor women's petticoats was another source of trouble. Before the autumn was over,--by
the end of October,--when Mary had been two months at Manor Cross, she had been got to acknowledge
that ladies living in the country should employ a part of their time in making clothes for
the poor people; and she very soon learned to regret the acknowledgment. She was quickly driven
into a corner by an assertion from Lady Sarah that, such being the case, the time to be so
employed should be defined. She had intended to make something,--perhaps an entire petticoat,--at
some future time. But Lady Sarah was not going to put up with conduct such as that. Mary had
acknowledged her duty. Did she mean to perform it, or to neglect it? She made one petticoat,
and then gently appealed to her husband. Did not he think that petticoats could be bought cheaper
than they could be made? He figured it out, and found that his wife could earn three-halfpence
a day by two hours' work; and even Lady Sarah did not require from her more than two hours
daily. Was it worth while that she should be made miserable for ninepence a week,--less than
£2 a-year? Lady George figured it out also, and offered the exact sum, £1 19s., to Lady Sarah,
in order that she might be let off for the first twelve months. Then Lady Sarah was full of
wrath. Was that the spirit in which offerings were to be made to the Lord? Mary was asked,
with stern indignation, whether in bestowing the work of her hands upon the people, whether
in the very fact that she was doing for the poor that which was distasteful to herself, she
did not recognise the performance of a duty? Mary considered a while, and then said that she
thought a petticoat was a petticoat, and that perhaps the one made by the regular petticoat-maker
would be the best. She did not allude to the grand doctrine of the division of labour, nor
did she hint that she might be doing more harm than good by interfering with regular trade,
because she had not studied those matters. But that was the line of her argument. Lady Sarah
told her that her heart in that matter was as hard as a nether millstone. The young wife, not
liking this, withdrew; and again appealed to her husband. His mind was divided on the subject.
He was clearly of opinion that the petticoat should be obtained in the cheapest market, but
he doubted much about that three-halfpence in two hours. It might be that his wife could not
do better at present; but experience would come, and in that case, she would be obtaining experience
as well as earning three-halfpence. And, moreover, petticoats made at Manor Cross would, he
thought, undoubtedly be better than any that could be bought. He came, however, to no final
decision; and Mary, finding herself every morning sitting in a great petticoat conclave, hardly
had an alternative but to join it.

It was not in any spirit of complaint that she spoke on the subject to her father as the winter
came on. A certain old Miss Tallowax had come to the deanery, and it had been thought proper
that Lady George should spend a day or two there. Miss Tallowax, also, had money of her own,
and even still owned a share in the business; and the Dean had pointed out, both to Lord George
and his wife, that it would be well that they should be civil to her. Lord George was to come
on the last day, and dine and sleep at the deanery. On this occasion, when the Dean and his
daughter were alone together, she said something in a playful way about the great petticoat
contest.

"Don't you let those old ladies sit upon you," said the Dean. He smiled as he spoke, but his
daughter well knew, from his tone, that he meant his advice to be taken seriously.

"Of course, papa, I should like to accommodate myself to them as much as I can."

"But you can't, my dear. Your manner of life can't be their manner, nor theirs yours. I should
have thought George would see that."

"He didn't take their part, you know."

"Of course he didn't. As a married woman you are entitled to have your own way, unless he should
wish it otherwise. I don't want to make this matter serious; but if it is pressed, tell them
that you do not care to spend your time in that way. They cling to old fashions. That is natural
enough; but it is absurd to suppose that they should make you as old-fashioned as themselves."

He had taken the matter up quite seriously, and had given his daughter advice evidently with
the intention that she should profit by it. That which he had said as to her being a married
woman struck her forcibly. No doubt these ladies at Manor Cross were her superiors in birth;
but she was their brother's wife, and as a married woman had rights of her own. A little spirit
of rebellion already began to kindle itself within her bosom; but in it there was nothing of
mutiny against her husband. If he were to desire her to make petticoats all day, of course
she would make them; but in this contest he had been, as it were, neutral, and had certainly
given her no orders. She thought a good deal about it while at the deanery, and made up her
mind that she would sit in the petticoat conclave no longer. It could not be her duty to pass
her time in an employment in which a poor woman might with difficulty earn sixpence a day.
Surely she might do better with her time than that, even though she should spend it all in
reading Gibbon.

CHAPTER IV.

AT THE DEANERY.

There was a dinner-party at the deanery during Miss Tallowax's sojourn at Brotherton. Mr. Canon
Holdenough and Lady Alice were there. The bishop and his wife had been asked,--a ceremony which
was gone through once a year,--but had been debarred from accepting the invitation by the presence
of clerical guests at the palace. But his lordship's chaplain, Mr. Groschut, was present. Mr.
Groschut also held an honorary prebendal stall, and was on of the chapter,--a thorn sometimes
in the Dean's side. But appearances were well kept up at Brotherton, and no one was more anxious
that things should be done in a seemly way than the Dean. Therefore, Mr. Groschut, who was
a very low churchman and had once been a Jew, but who bore a very high character for theological
erudition, was asked to the deanery. There was also one or two other clergymen there, with
their wives, and Mr. and Mrs. Houghton. Mrs. Houghton, it will be remembered, was the beautiful
woman who had refused to become the wife of Lord George Germain. Before taking this step, the
Dean had been careful to learn whether his son-in-law would object to meet the Houghtons. Such
objection would have been foolish, as the families had all known each other. Both Mr. De Baron,
Mrs. Houghton's father, and Mr. Houghton himself, had been intimate with the late marquis,
and had been friends of the present lord before he had quitted the country. A lady when she
refuses a gentleman gives no cause of quarrel. All this the Dean understood; and as he himself
had known both Mr. Houghton and Mr. De Baron ever since he came to Brotherton, he thought it
better that there should be such a meeting. Lord George blushed up to the roots of his hair,
and then said that he should be very glad to meet the gentleman and his wife.

The two young brides had known each other as girls, and now met with, at any rate, an appearance
of friendship.

"My dear," said Mrs. Houghton, who was about four years the elder, "of course I know all about
it, and so do you. You are an heiress, and could afford to please yourself. I had nothing of
my own, and should have had to pass all my time at Manor Cross. Are you surprised?"

"Why should I be surprised?" said Lady George, who was, however, very much surprised at this
address.

"Well, you know; he is the handsomest man in England. Everybody allows that; and, then, such
a family--and such possibilities! I was very much flattered. Of course he had not seen you
then, or only seen you as a child, or I shouldn't have had a chance. It is a great deal better
as it is,--isn't it?"

"I think so, certainly."

"I am so glad to hear that you have a house in town. We go up about the first of April, when
the hunting is over. Mr. Houghton does not ride much, but he hunts a great deal. We live in
Berkeley Square, you know; and I do so hope we shall see ever so much of you."

"I'm sure I hope so too," said Lady George, who had never hitherto been very fond of Miss De
Baron, and had entertained a vague idea that she ought to be a little afraid of Mrs. Houghton.
But when her father's guest was so civil to her she did not know how to be other than civil
in return.

"There is no reason why what has passed should make any awkwardness;--is there?"

"No," said Lady George, feeling that she almost blushed at the allusion to so delicate a subject.

"Of course not. Why should there? Lord George will soon get used to me, just as if nothing
had happened; and I shall always be ever so fond of him,--in a way, you know. There shall be
nothing to make you jealous."

"I'm not a bit afraid of that," said Lady George, almost too earnestly.

"You need not be, I'm sure. Not but what I do think he was at one time very--very much attached
to me. But it couldn't be. And what's the good of thinking of such a thing when it can't be?
I don't pretend to be very virtuous, and I like money. Now Mr. Houghton, at any rate, has got
a large income. If I had had your fortune at my own command, I don't say what I might not have
done."

Lady George almost felt that she ought to be offended by all this,--almost felt that she was
disgusted; but, at the same time, she did not quite understand it. Her father had made a point
of asking the Houghtons, and had told her that of course she would know the Houghtons up in
town. She had an idea that she was very ignorant of the ways of life; but that now it would
behove her, as a married woman, to learn those ways. Perhaps the free and easy mode of talking
was the right thing. She did not like being told by another lady that that other lady would
have married her own husband, only that he was a pauper; and the offence of all this seemed
to be the greater because it was all so recent. She didn't like being told that she was not
to be jealous, especially when she remembered that her husband had been desperately in love
with the lady who told her so not many months ago. But she was not jealous, and was quite sure
she never would be jealous; and, perhaps, it did not matter. All this had occurred in the drawing-room
before dinner. Then Mr. Houghton came up to her, telling that he had been commissioned by the
Dean to have the honour of taking her down to dinner. Having made his little speech, Mr. Houghton
retired,--as gentlemen generally do retire when in that position.

"Be as nice as you can to him," said Mrs. Houghton. "He hasn't much to say for himself, but
he isn't half a bad fellow; and a pretty woman like you can do what she likes with him."

Lady George, as she went down to dinner, assured herself that she had no slightest wish to
take any unfair advantage of Mr. Houghton.

Lord George had taken down Miss Tallowax, the Dean having been very wise in this matter; and
Miss Tallowax was in a seventh heaven of happiness. Miss Tallowax, though she had made no promises,
was quite prepared to do great things for her noble connexions, if her noble connexions would
treat her properly. She had already made half-a-dozen wills, and was quite ready to make another,
if Lord George would be civil to her. The Dean was in his heart a little ashamed of his aunt;
but he was man enough to be able to bear her eccentricities without showing his vexation, and
sufficiently wise to know that more was to be won than lost by the relationship.

"The best woman in the world," he had said to Lord George beforehand, speaking of his aunt;
"but, of course, you will remember that she was not brought up as a lady."

Lord George, with stately urbanity, had signified his intention of treating Miss Tallowax with
every consideration.

"She has thirty thousand pounds at her own disposal," continued the Dean. "I have never said
a word to her about money, but, upon my honour, I think she likes Mary better than any one
else. It's worth bearing in mind, you know."

Lord George smiled again in a stately manner,--perhaps showing something of displeasure in
his smile. But, nevertheless, he was well aware that it was worth his while to bear Miss Tallowax
and her money in his mind.

"My lord," said Miss Tallowax, "I hope you will allow me to say how much honoured we all feel
by Mary's proud position." Lord George bowed and smiled, and led the lady into the deanery
dining-room. Words did not come easily to him, and he hardly knew how to answer the lady. "Of
course, it's a great thing for people such as us," continued Miss Tallowax, "to be connected
with the family of a Marquis." Again Lord George bowed. This was very bad, indeed,--a great
deal worse than he had anticipated from the aunt of so courtly a man as his father-in-law,
the Dean. The lady looked to be about sixty; very small, very healthy, with streaky red cheeks,
small grey eyes, and a brown front. Then came upon him an idea, that it would be a very long
time before the thirty thousand pounds, or any part of it, would come to him. And then there
came to him another idea, that as he had married the Dean's daughter, it was his duty to behave
well to the Dean's aunt, even though the money should never come to him. He therefore told
Miss Tallowax that his mother hoped to have the pleasure of seeing her at Manor Cross before
she left Brotherton. Miss Tallowax almost got out of her seat, as she curtseyed with her head
and shoulders to this proposition.

The Dean was a very good man at the head of his own dinner-table, and the party went off pleasantly
in spite of sundry attempts at clerical pugnacity made by Mr. Groschut. Every man and every
beast has his own weapon. The wolf fights with his tooth, the bull with his horn, and Mr. Groschut
always fought with his bishop,--so taught by inner instinct. The bishop, according to Mr. Groschut,
was inclined to think that this and that might be done. That such a change might be advantageously
made in reference to certain clerical meetings, and that the hilarity of the diocese might
be enhanced by certain evangelical festivities. These remarks were generally addressed to Mr.
Canon Holdenough, who made almost no reply to them. But the Dean was, on each occasion, prepared
with some civil answer, which, while it was an answer, would still seem to change the conversation.
It was a law in the Close that Bishop Barton should be never allowed to interfere with the
affairs of Brotherton Cathedral; and if not the bishop, certainly not the bishop's chaplain.
Though the Canon and the Dean did not go altogether on all fours in reference to clerical affairs
generally they were both agreed on this point. But the Chaplain, who knew the condition of
affairs as well as they did, thought the law a bad law, and was determined to abolish it. "It
certainly would be very pleasant, Mr. Holdenough, if we could have such a meeting within the
confines of the Close. I don't mean to-day, and I don't mean to-morrow; but we might think
of it. The bishop, who has the greatest love for the cathedral services, is very much of that
mind."

"I do not know that I care very much for any out-of-door gatherings," said the Canon.

"But why out of doors?" asked the Chaplain.

"Whatever meeting there is to be in the Close, will, I hope, be held in the deanery," said
the Dean; "but of all meetings, I must say that I like meetings such as this, the best. Germain,
will you pass the bottle?" When they were alone together he always called his son-in-law, George;
but in company he dropped the more familiar name.

Mr. De Baron, Mrs. Houghton's father, liked his joke. "Sporting men," he said, "always go to
a meet, and clerical men to a meeting. What's the difference?"

"A good deal, if it is in the colour of the coat," said the Dean.

"The one is always under cover," said the Canon. "The other, I believe, is generally held out
of doors."

"There is, I fancy, a considerable resemblance in the energy of those who are brought together,"
said the Chaplain.

"But clergymen ain't allowed to hunt, are they?" said Mr. Houghton, who, as usual, was a little
in the dark as to the subject under consideration.

"What's to prevent them?" asked the Canon, who had never been out hunting in his life, and
who certainly would have advised a young clergyman to abstain from the sport. But in asking
the question, he was enabled to strike a sidelong blow at the objectionable chaplain, by seeming
to question the bishop's authority.

"Their own conscience, I should hope," said the Chaplain, solemnly, thereby parrying the blow
successfully.

"I am very glad, then," said Mr. Houghton, "that I didn't go into the Church." To be thought
a real hunting man was the great object of Mr. Houghton's ambition.

"I am afraid you would hardly have suited us, Houghton," said the Dean. "Come, shall we go
up to the ladies?"

In the drawing-room, after a little while, Lord George found himself seated next to Mrs. Houghton--Adelaide
De Baron, as she had been when he had sighed in vain at her feet. How it had come to pass that
he was sitting there he did not know, but he was quite sure that it had come to pass by no
arrangement contrived by himself. He had looked at her once since he had been in the room,
almost blushing as he did so, and had told himself that she was certainly very beautiful. He
almost thought that she was more beautiful than his wife; but he knew,--he knew now,--that
her beauty and her manners were not as well suited to him as those of the sweet creature whom
he had married. And now he was once more seated close to her, and it was incumbent on him to
speak to her. "I hope," she said, almost in a whisper, but still not seeming to whisper, "that
we have both become very happy since we met last."

"I hope so, indeed," said he.

"There cannot, at least, be any doubt as to you, Lord George. I never knew a sweeter young
girl than Mary Lovelace; so pretty, so innocent, and so enthusiastic. I am but a poor worldly
creature compared to her."

"She is all that you say, Mrs. Houghton." Lord George also was displeased,--more thoroughly
displeased than had been his wife. But he did not know how to show his displeasure; and though
he felt it, he still felt, also, the old influence of the woman's beauty.

"I am so delighted to have heard that you have got a house in Munster Court. I hope that Lady
George and I may be fast friends. Indeed, I won't call her Lady George; for she was Mary to
me before we either of us thought of getting husbands for ourselves." This was not strictly
true, but of that Lord George could know nothing. "And I do hope,--may I hope,--that you will
call on me?"

"Certainly I will do so."

"It will add so much to the happiness of my life, if you will allow me to feel that all that
has come and gone has not broken the friendship between us."

"Certainly not," said Lord George.

The lady had then said all that she had got to say, and changed her position as silently as
she had occupied it. There was no abruptness of motion, and yet Lord George saw her talking
to her husband at the other side of the room, almost while his own words were still sounding
in his own ears. Then he watched her for the next few minutes. Certainly, she was very beautiful.
There was no room for comparison, they were so unlike; otherwise, he would have been disposed
to say that Adelaide was the more beautiful. But Adelaide certainly would not have suited the
air of Manor Cross, or have associated well with Lady Sarah.

On the next day the Marchioness and Ladies Susannah and Amelia drove over to the deanery in
great state, to call on Miss Tallowax, and to take Lady George back to Manor Cross. Miss Tallowax
enjoyed the company of the Marchioness greatly. She had never seen a lady of that rank before.
"Only think how I must feel," she said to her niece, that morning, "I, that never spoke to
any one above a baronet's lady in my life."

"I don't think you'll find much difference," said Mary.

"You're used to it. You're one of them yourself. You're above a baronet's lady,--ain't you,
my dear?"

"I have hardly looked into all that as yet, aunt." There must surely have been a little fib
in this, or the Dean's daughter must have been very much unlike other young ladies.

"I suppose I ought to be afraid of you, my dear; only you are so nice and so pretty. And as
for Lord George, he was quite condescending." Lady George knew that praise was intended, and
therefore made no objection to the otherwise objectionable epithet.

