ENTERED AT STATIONERS' HALL, LONDON.

   B. & B. EIGHTH READER.

   W. P. 2

TO THE TEACHER

The paramount design of this series of School Readers is to help young people to acquire the
art and the habit of reading well--that is, of interpreting the printed page in such manner
as to give pleasure and instruction to themselves and to those who listen to them. In his eighth
year at school the pupil is supposed to be able to read, with ease and with some degree of
fluency, anything in the English language that may come to his hand; but, that he may read
always with the understanding and in a manner pleasing to his hearers and satisfactory to himself,
he must still have daily systematic practice in the rendering of selections not too difficult
for comprehension and yet embracing various styles of literary workmanship and illustrating
the different forms of English composition. The contents of this volume have been chosen and
arranged to supply--or, where not supplying, to suggest--the materials for this kind of practice.

Particular attention is called both to the high quality and to the wide variety of the selections
herein presented. They include specimens of many styles of literary workmanship--the products
of the best thought of modern times. It is believed that their study will not only prove interesting
to pupils, but will inspire them with a desire to read still more upon the same subjects or
from the works of the same authors; for it is only by loving books and learning to know them
that any one can become a really good reader.

The pupils should be encouraged to seek for and point out the particular passages in each selection
that are distinguished for their beauty, their truth, or their peculiar adaptability to the
purpose in view. The habit should be cultivated of looking for and enjoying the admirable qualities
of any worthy literary production; and special attention should be given to the style of writing
which characterizes and gives value to the works of various authors. These points should be
the subjects of daily discussions between teacher and pupils.

The notes under the head of "Expression," which follow many of the lessons, are intended, not
only to aid in securing correctness of expression, but also to afford suggestions for the appreciative
reading of the selections and an intelligent comparison of their literary peculiarities. In
the study of new, difficult, or unusual words, the pupils should invariably refer to the dictionary.

CONTENTS

                                                                    PAGE

   Brother and Sister                              George Eliot     11

   My Last Day at Salem House                   Charles Dickens     22

   The Departure from Miss Pinkerton's          W. M. Thackeray     27

   Two Gems from Browning:
   I. Incident of the French Camp               Robert Browning     36
   II. Dog Tray                                 Robert Browning     41

   The Discovery of America                   Washington Irving     43

   The Glove and the Lions                           Leigh Hunt     48

   St. Francis, the Gentle                       William Canton     51

   The Sermon of St. Francis                Henry W. Longfellow     54

   In the Woods                                  John Burroughs     56

   Bees and Flowers                         Arabella B. Buckley     59

   Song of the River                              Abram J. Ryan     64

   Song of the Chattahoochee                      Sidney Lanier     66

   War and Peace:
   I. War as the Mother of Valor and Civilization
                                                Andrew Carnegie     68
   II. Friendship among Nations                     Victor Hugo     71
   III. Soldier, Rest                          Sir Walter Scott     74
   IV. The Soldier's Dream                      Thomas Campbell     75
   V. How Sleep the Brave?                      William Collins     76

   Early Times in New York                    Washington Irving     77

   A Winter Evening in Old New England           J. G. Whittier     82

   The Old-fashioned Thanksgiving            Donald G. Mitchell     84

   A Thanksgiving                                Robert Herrick     92

   First Days at Wakefield                     Oliver Goldsmith     94

   Doubting Castle                                  John Bunyan    100

   Shooting with the Longbow                   Sir Walter Scott    108

   A Christmas Hymn                               Alfred Domett    117

   Christmas Eve at Fezziwig's                  Charles Dickens    120

   The Christmas Holly                               Eliza Cook    124

   The New Year's Dinner Party                     Charles Lamb    125

   The Town Pump                            Nathaniel Hawthorne    128

   Come up from the Fields, Father                 Walt Whitman    135

   The Address at Gettysburg                    Abraham Lincoln    139

   Ode to the Confederate Dead                     Henry Timrod    140

   The Chariot Race                              From Sophocles    141

   The Coliseum at Midnight                 Henry W. Longfellow    145

   The Deacon's Masterpiece               Oliver Wendell Holmes    147

   Dogs and Cats                                Alexandre Dumas    154

   The Owl Critic                               James T. Fields    157

   Mrs. Caudle's Umbrella Lecture       Douglas William Jerrold    161

   The Dark Day in Connecticut                   J. G. Whittier    164

   Two Interesting Letters:
   I. Columbus to the Lord Treasurer of Spain                        167
   II. Governor Winslow to a Friend in England                       171

   Poems of Home and Country:
   I. "This is My Own, My Native Land"         Sir Walter Scott    174
   II. The Green Little Shamrock of Ireland       Andrew Cherry    175
   III. My Heart's in the Highlands                Robert Burns    176
   IV. The Fatherland                           James R. Lowell    177
   V. Home                                     Oliver Goldsmith    178

   The Age of Coal                                Agnes Giberne    179

   Something about the Moon                  Richard A. Proctor    183

   The Coming of the Birds                  Ralph Waldo Emerson    187

   The Return of the Birds                       John Burroughs    188

   The Poet and the Bird:
   I. The Song of the Lark                                           193
   II. To a Skylark                            Percy B. Shelley    197

   Hark, Hark! the Lark                     William Shakespeare    201

   Echoes of the American Revolution:
   I. Patrick Henry's Famous Speech                                  202
   II. Marion's Men                            W. Gilmore Simms    206
   III. In Memory of George Washington                Henry Lee    209

   Three Great American Poems:
   I. Thanatopsis                         William Cullen Bryant    213
   II. The Bells                                Edgar Allan Poe    219
   III. Marco Bozzaris                      Fitz-Greene Halleck    224

   The Indian                                    Edward Everett    228

   National Retribution                         Theodore Parker    231

   Who are Blessed                                    The Bible    233

   Little Gems from the Older Poets:
   I. The Noble Nature                               Ben Jonson    235
   II. A Contented Mind                        Joshua Sylvester    235
   III. A Happy Life                           Sir Henry Wotton    236
   IV. Solitude                                  Alexander Pope    237
   V. A Wish                                      Samuel Rogers    238

   How King Arthur got his Name                   Fiona Macleod    239

   Antony's Oration over Cæsar's Dead Body  William Shakespeare    244

   Selections to be Memorized:
   I. The Prayer Perfect                   James Whitcomb Riley    250
   II. Be Just and Fear Not                 William Shakespeare    250
   III. If I can Live                            Author Unknown    251
   IV. The Bugle Song                           Alfred Tennyson    251
   V. The Ninetieth Psalm                        Book of Psalms    252
   VI. Recessional                              Rudyard Kipling    253

   Proper Names                                                      255

   List of Authors                                                   257

ACKNOWLEDGMENTS

Acknowledgment and thanks are proffered to Andrew Carnegie for permission to reprint in this
volume his tract on "War as the Mother of Civilization and Valor"; to the Bobbs-Merrill Company
for their courtesy in allowing us to use "The Prayer Perfect," from James Whitcomb Riley's
Rhymes of Childhood; to David Mackay for the poem by Walt Whitman entitled "Come up from the
Fields, Father"; to Charles Scribner's Sons for the "Song of the Chattahoochee," from the Poems
of Sidney Lanier; and, also, to the same publishers for the selection, "The Old-fashioned Thanksgiving,"
from Bound Together by Donald G. Mitchell.

"There he is, my sweet lad!"

II. She was too miserable to be angry.

III.

"Goodness heart!

FOOTNOTE:

[Footnote 1: From "The Mill on the Floss," by George Eliot.]

MY LAST DAY AT SALEM HOUSE[2]

I pass over all that happened at school, until the anniversary of my birthday came round in March.

FOOTNOTE:

[Footnote 2: From "David Copperfield," by Charles Dickens.]

     EXPRESSION: The two stories which you have just read were written
     by two of the greatest masters of fiction in English literature.
     Talk with your teacher about George Eliot and Charles Dickens, and
     learn all that you can about their works. Which of these two
     stories do you prefer? Why?

     Reread the conversation on pages 14 and 15. Imagine yourself to be
     Tom or Maggie, and speak just as he or she did. Read the
     conversation on pages 16 and 17 in the same way. Reread other
     portions that you like particularly well.

     In what respect does the second story differ most strongly from the
     first? Select the most striking passage and read it with expression
     sad feeling. "We have made her a bowpot."

With an unusual display of courage, Miss Jemima mildly protested: "Well, sister, it's only
two and nine-pence, and poor Becky will be miserable if she doesn't get one."

III

Well, then. Good-by."

FOOTNOTES:

[Footnote 3: From "Vanity Fair," by William Makepeace Thackeray.]

[Footnote 4: "Madam, I have come to tell you good-by."]

     EXPRESSION: By many able critics, Thackeray is regarded as a
     greater novelist than either Dickens or George Eliot. Compare this
     extract from one of his best works with the two selections which
     precede it. Which of the three stories is the most interesting to
     you? Which sounds the best when read aloud? Which is the most
     humorous? Which is the most pathetic?

     Reread the three selections very carefully. Now tell what you
     observe about the style of each. In what respects is the style of
     the third story different from that of either of the others? Reread
     Miss Pinkerton's letter. What peculiarities do you observe in it?
     Select and reread the most humorous passage in this last story.

TWO GEMS FROM BROWNING

I. INCIDENT OF THE FRENCH CAMP

In the small kingdom of Bavaria, on the south bank of the Danube River, there is a famous old
city called Ratisbon. It is not a very large city, but its history can be traced far back to
the time when the Romans had a military camp there which they used as an outpost against the
German barbarians. At one time it ranked among the most flourishing towns of Germany.

It is now of little commercial importance--a quaint and quiet old place, with a fine cathedral
and many notable buildings which testify to its former greatness.

During the earlier years of the nineteenth century, Napoleon Bonaparte, emperor of the French,
was engaged in bitter warfare with Austria and indeed with nearly the whole of Europe. In April,
1809, the Austrian army, under Grand Duke Charles, was intrenched in Ratisbon and the neighboring
towns. There it was attacked by the French army commanded by Napoleon himself and led by the
brave Marshal Lannes, Duke of Montebello.

The battle raged, first on this side of the city, then on that, and for several days no one
could tell which of the combatants would be victorious. At length Napoleon decided to end the
matter by storming the city and, if possible, driving the archduke from his stronghold. He,
therefore, sent Marshal Lannes forward to direct the battle, while he watched the conflict
and gave commands from a distance. For a long time the issue seemed doubtful, and not even
Napoleon could guess what the result would be. Late in the day, however, French valor prevailed,
the Austrians were routed, and Marshal Lannes forced his way into the city.

It was at this time that the incident described so touchingly in the following poem by Robert
Browning is supposed to have taken place. We do not know, nor does any one know, whether the
story has any foundation in fact. It illustrates, however, the spirit of bravery and self-sacrifice
that prevailed among the soldiers of Napoleon; and such an incident might, indeed, have happened
not only at Ratisbon, but at almost any place where the emperor's presence urged his troops
to victory. For, such was Napoleon's magic influence and such was the love which he inspired
among all his followers, that thousands of young men were ready cheerfully to give their lives
for the promotion of his selfish ambition.

The poem, which is now regarded as one of the classics of our language, was first published
in 1843, in a small volume entitled "Dramatic Lyrics." The same volume contained the well-known
rime of "The Pied Piper of Hamelin." Robert Browning was at that time a young man of thirty,
and most of the poems which afterwards made him famous were still unwritten.

     EXPRESSION: This is a difficult selection to read properly and with
     spirit and feeling. Study each stanza until you understand it
     thoroughly. Practice reading the following passages, giving the
     proper emphasis and inflections.

     You know, we French stormed Ratisbon.
     With neck outthrust you fancy how.
     "We've got you Ratisbon!"
     "You're wounded!" "Nay, I'm killed, Sire!"

     WORD STUDY: Napoleon, Ratisbon, Bavaria, Lannes; anon,
     vans, sheathes, eaglet, Sire.

     Explain: "To see your flag bird flap his vans." "His plans
     soared up again like fire."

II. DOG TRAY[5]

   A beggar child
   Sat on a quay's edge: like a bird
   Sang to herself at careless play,
   And fell into the stream. "Dismay!
   Help, you standers-by!" None stirred.

   Bystanders reason, think of wives
   And children ere they risk their lives.
   Over the balustrade has bounced
   A mere instinctive dog, and pounced
   Plumb on the prize. "How well he dives!"

FOOTNOTE:

[Footnote 5: By Robert Browning.]

     EXPRESSION: Read the story silently, being sure that you understand
     it clearly. Then read each passage aloud, giving special attention
     to emphasis and inflections. Answer these questions by reading from
     the poem:

     Where was the child? What did she do?
     What did some one cry out?
     Why did not the bystanders help?
     What did the dog do?
     What did one bystander say?
     What did another say when the dog came up?
     What did he say when the dog went back?

     Read correctly: "Well, that's prime!" "Now, did you ever?"
     "All right!" "If he got drowned, I should not wonder."

     In what respects do these two poems differ from your favorite poems
     by Longfellow or Tennyson? Do you think there is much music in
     them?

The natives of the island, when at the dawn of day they had beheld the ships hovering on their
coast, had supposed them monsters which had issued from the deep during the night. They had
crowded to the beach and watched their movements with awful anxiety. Their veering about apparently
without effort, and the shifting and furling of their sails, resembling huge wings, filled
them with astonishment. When they beheld their boats approach the shore, and a number of strange
beings clad in glittering steel, or raiment of various colors, landing upon the beach, they
fled in affright to the woods.

Finding, however, that there was no attempt to pursue or molest them, they gradually recovered
from their terror and approached the Spaniards with great awe, frequently prostrating themselves
on the earth and making signs of adoration. During the ceremonies of taking possession, they
remained gazing in timid admiration at the complexion, the beards, the shining armor and splendid
dress of the Spaniards. The admiral particularly attracted their attention, from his commanding
height, his air of authority, his dress of scarlet, and the deference which was paid him by
his companions; all which pointed him out to be the commander.

When they had still further recovered from their fears, they approached the Spaniards, touched
their beards and examined their hands and faces, admiring their whiteness. Columbus was pleased
with their gentleness and confiding simplicity, and soon won them by his kindly bearing. They
now supposed that the ships had sailed out of the crystal firmament which bounded their horizon,
or had descended from above on their ample wings, and that these marvelous beings were inhabitants
of the skies.

The natives of the island were no less objects of curiosity to the Spaniards, differing as
they did from any race of men they had ever seen. Their appearance gave no promise of either
wealth or civilization, for they were entirely naked and painted with a variety of colors.
With some it was confined merely to a part of the face, the nose, or around the eyes; with
others it extended to the whole body and gave them a wild and fantastic appearance.

Their complexion was of a tawny, or copper hue, and they were entirely destitute of beards.
Their hair was not crisped, like the recently discovered tribes of the African coast, under
the same latitude, but straight and coarse, partly cut short above the ears, but some locks
were left long behind and falling upon their shoulders. Their features, though obscured and
disfigured by paint, were agreeable; they had lofty foreheads and remarkably fine eyes. They
were of moderate stature and well shaped.

As Columbus supposed himself to have landed on an island at the extremity of India, he called
the natives by the general name of Indians, which was universally adopted before the true nature
of his discovery was known, and has since been extended to all the aboriginals of the New World.

The islanders were friendly and gentle. Their only arms were lances, hardened at the end by
fire, or pointed with a flint, or the teeth or bone of a fish. There was no iron to be seen,
nor did they appear acquainted with its properties; for, when a drawn sword was presented to
them, they unguardedly took it by the edge.

Columbus distributed among them colored caps, glass beads, hawks' bells and other trifles,
such as the Portuguese were accustomed to trade with among the nations of the gold coast of
Africa. They received them eagerly, hung the beads round their necks, and were wonderfully
pleased with their finery, and with the sound of the bells. The Spaniards remained all day
on shore refreshing themselves, after their anxious voyage, amid the beautiful groves of the
island, and returned on board late in the evening, delighted with all they had seen.

The island where Columbus had thus, for the first time, set his foot upon the New World, was
called by the natives Guanahane. It still retains the name of San Salvador, which he gave to
it, though called by the English Cat Island.

FOOTNOTE:

[Footnote 7: By Leigh Hunt, an English essayist and poet (1784-1859).]

     EXPRESSION: Read this poem silently, trying to understand fully the
     circumstances of the story: (1) the time; (2) the place; (3) the
     character of the leading actors. Then read aloud each stanza with
     feeling and expression.

FOOTNOTE:

[Footnote 8: By William Canton, an English journalist and poet (1845- ).]

THE SERMON OF ST. FRANCIS[9]

   Up soared the lark into the air,
   A shaft of song, a winged prayer,
   As if a soul, released from pain,
   Were flying back to heaven again.

   St. Francis heard; it was to him
   An emblem of the Seraphim;
   The upward motion of the fire,
   The light, the heat, the heart's desire.

   Around Assisi's convent gate
   The birds, God's poor who cannot wait,
   From moor and mere and darksome wood,
   Came flocking for their dole of food.

   "Ye shall be fed, ye happy birds,
   With manna of celestial words;
   Not mine, though mine they seem to be,
   Not mine, though they be spoken through me.

   With flutter of swift wings and songs
   Together rose the feathered throngs
   And, singing, scattered far apart;
   Deep peace was in St. Francis' heart.

   He knew not if the brotherhood
   His homily had understood;
   He only knew that to one ear
   The meaning of his words was clear.

FOOTNOTE:

[Footnote 9: By Henry W. Longfellow.]

     EXPRESSION: Talk with your teacher about the life, work, and
     influence of St. Francis. Refer to cyclopedias for information.
     Read aloud the prose version of his sermon to the birds; the
     poetical version. Compare the two versions. What is said in one
     that is not said in the other?

IN THE WOODS[10]

Years ago, when quite a youth, I was rambling in the woods one day with my brothers, gathering
black birch and wintergreens.

As we lay upon the ground, gazing vaguely up into the trees, I caught sight of a bird, the
like of which I had never before seen or heard of. Did we pass by the beautiful things in nature
without seeing them? Had we been blind then? There were the robin, the bluejay, the yellowbird,
and others familiar to every one; but who ever dreamed that there were still others that not
even the hunters saw, and whose names few had ever heard? One must taste it to understand.
The looker-on sees nothing to make such a fuss about. Only a little glimpse of feathers and
a half-musical note or two--why all this ado? But let me say in the same breath that the books
can by no manner of means be dispensed with.

In the beginning one finds it very difficult to identify a bird in any verbal description.
Then compare with your book. In this way the feathered kingdom may soon be conquered.

FOOTNOTE:

[Footnote 10: By John Burroughs, an American writer on nature (1837- ).]

     EXPRESSION: This and the selection which follows are fine examples
     of descriptive writing. Read them so that your hearers will
     understand every statement clearly and without special effort on
     their part. Talk about the various objects that are mentioned, and
     tell what you have learned about them from other sources. But over other flowers she lingers a little, and then scrambles
out again with her drop of honey, and goes off to seek more.

Let us watch her a little more closely. There are many different plants growing in the flower
bed, but, curiously enough, she does not go first to one kind and then to another, but keeps
to one the whole time.

Now she flies away. Rouse yourself to follow her, and you will see she takes her way back to
the hive. We all know why she makes so many journeys between the garden and the hive, and that
she is collecting drops of nectar from the flowers and carrying it to the hive to be stored
up in the honeycomb for the winter's food. When she comes back again to the garden, we will
follow her in her work among the flowers, and see what she is doing for them in return for
their gifts to her.

No doubt you have already learned that plants can make better and stronger seeds when they
can get the pollen dust from other plants. But I am sure that you will be very much surprised
to hear that the colors, the scent, and the curious shapes of the flowers are all so many baits
to attract insects. And for what reason? In order that the insects may come and carry the pollen
dust from one plant to another.

So far as we know, it is entirely for this purpose that the plants form honey in different
parts of the flower. This food they prepare for the insects, and then they have all sorts of
contrivances to entice the little creatures to come and get it. The plants hang out gay-colored
signs, as much as to say:--

"Come to me, and I will give you honey, if you will bring me pollen dust in exchange." But
on the pretty and sweet-smelling apple blossoms you will find bees, wasps, and other insects.

But the brilliant poppy, the large-flowered hollyhock, the flaunting dandelion, and the bright
blue forget-me-not,--all these are visited by insects, which easily catch sight of them and
hasten to sip their honey.

We must not forget what the fragrance of the flowers can do. Have you ever noticed the delicious
odor which comes from beds of mignonette, mint, or sweet alyssum? These plants have found another
way of attracting the insects; they have no need of bright colors, for their fragrance is quite
as true and certain a guide. You will be surprised if you once begin to count them up, how
many dull-looking flowers are sweet-scented, while some gaudy flowers have little or no scent.

Again, some flowers close whenever rain is coming. Look at the daisies when a storm is threatening.

We are gradually learning that everything which a plant does has its meaning, if we can only
find it out. And when we are aware of this, a flower garden may become a new world to us if
we open our eyes to all that is going on in it.

I have been able to tell you but very little about the hidden work that is going on around
us, and you must not for a moment imagine that we have fully explored the fairy land of nature.

FOOTNOTE:

[Footnote 11: From "The Fairy Land of Nature," by Arabella B. Buckley.]

     EXPRESSION: Make a list of all the natural objects that are
     mentioned in this selection. Read what is said of each. Describe as
     many of them as you can in your own words. Tell what you have
     observed about bees and flowers. The daisy that is referred to is
     the true European daisy. The daisy, or whiteweed, of the United
     States does not open and close in the manner here described.

SONG OF THE RIVER[12]

   A river went singing a-down to the sea,
               A-singing--low--singing--
   And the dim rippling river said softly to me,
               "I'm bringing, a-bringing--
               While floating along--
               A beautiful song
   To the shores that are white where the waves are so weary,
   To the beach that is burdened with wrecks that are dreary.

               "A song sweet and calm
               As the peacefullest psalm;
               And the shore that was sad
               Will be grateful and glad,
   And the weariest wave from its dreariest dream
   Will wake to the sound of the song of the stream;
               And the tempests shall cease
               And there shall be peace."
               From the fairest of fountains
               And farthest of mountains,
               From the stillness of snow
               Came the stream in its flow.

   Down the slopes where the rocks are gray,
     Through the vales where the flowers are fair--

   Where the sunlight flashed--where the shadows lay
     Like stories that cloud a face of care,
       The river ran on--and on--and on,
       Day and night, and night and day.
       Going and going, and never gone,
       Longing to flow to the "far away."
       Staying and staying, and never still,--
       Going and staying, as if one will
       Said, "Beautiful river, go to the sea,"
       And another will whispered, "Stay with me"--
       And the river made answer, soft and low,
       "I go and stay--I stay and go."

       "But what is the song?" I said at last
       To the passing river that never passed;
       And a white, white wave whispered, "List to me,
       I'm a note in the song for the beautiful sea,
   A song whose grand accents no earth din may sever,
   And the river flows on in the same mystic key
   That blends in one chord the 'forever and never.'"

[Footnote 12: By Abram J. Ryan, an American clergyman and poet.]

     EXPRESSION: Read aloud the three lines which introduce the song of
     the river. Read them in such a manner as to call up a mental
     picture of the river on its way to the sea. Read the first five
     lines of the third stanza in a similar way, and tell what picture
     is now called up in your mind. Now read the river's song. Read what
     the white wave said. Read the whole poem with spirit and feeling.

     Notice the words "a-down," "a-singing," "a-bringing." What effect
     is produced by the use of these unusual forms?

SONG OF THE CHATTAHOOCHEE[13]

     Out of the hills of Habersham,
       Down the valleys of Hall,
     I hurry amain to reach the plain,
       Run the rapid and leap the fall,
     Split at the rock and together again,
       Accept my bed or narrow or wide,
       And flee from folly on every side
   With a lover's pain to attain the plain
   Far from the hills of Habersham,
       Far from the valleys of Hall.

       All down the hills of Habersham,
       All through the valleys of Hall,
   The rushes cried, "Abide, abide,"
   The willful waterweeds held me thrall,
   The loving laurel turned my tide,
   The ferns and the fondling grass said, "Stay,"
   The dewberry dipped for to work delay,
   And the little reeds sighed, "Abide, abide,"
       Here in the hills of Habersham,
       Here in the valleys of Hall.

       High o'er the hills of Habersham,
       Veiling the valleys of Hall,
   The hickory told me manifold
   Fair tales of shade; the poplar tall
   Wrought me her shadowy self to hold;
   The chestnut, the oak, the walnut, the pine,
   Overleaning, with flickering meaning and sign,
       Said, "Pass not so cold, these manifold
       Deep shades of the hills of Habersham,
       These glades in the valleys of Hall."

     And oft in the hills of Habersham,
     And oft in the valleys of Hall,
   The white quartz shone, and the smooth brook stone
   Did bar me of passage with friendly brawl;
   And many a luminous jewel lone
   (Crystals clear or a-cloud with mist,
   Ruby, garnet, or amethyst)
   Made lures with the lights of streaming stone
     In the clefts of the hills of Habersham,
     In the beds of the valleys of Hall.

FOOTNOTE:

[Footnote 13: By Sidney Lanier, an American musician and poet (1842-1881). From the Poems of
Sidney Lanier, published by Charles Scribner's Sons.]

