The city of Nice is built in form of an irregular isosceles triangle, the base of which fronts
the sea.  On the west side it is surrounded by a wall and rampart; on the east, it is over-hung
by a rock, on which we see the ruins of an old castle, which, before the invention of artillery,
was counted impregnable. It was taken and dismantled by marechal Catinat, in the time of Victor
Amadaeus, the father of his Sardinian majesty. It was afterwards finally demolished by the
duke of Berwick towards the latter end of queen Anne's war. To repair it would be a very unnecessary
expence, as it is commanded by Montalban, and several other eminences.

The town of Nice is altogether indefensible, and therefore without fortifications. There are
only two iron guns upon a bastion that fronts the beach; and here the French had formed a considerable
battery against the English cruisers, in the war of 1744, when the Mareschal Duke de Belleisle
had his headquarters at Nice. This little town, situated in the bay of Antibes, is almost equidistant
from Marseilles, Turin, and Genoa, the first and last being about thirty leagues from hence
by sea; and the capital of Piedmont at the same distance to the northward, over the mountains.
It lies exactly opposite to Capo di Ferro, on the coast of Barbary; and, the islands of Sardinia
and Corsica are laid down about two degrees to the eastward, almost exactly in a line with
Genoa. This little town, hardly a mile in circumference, is said to contain twelve thousand
inhabitants. The streets are narrow; the houses are built of stone, and the windows in general
are fitted with paper instead of glass. This expedient would not answer in a country subject
to rain and storms; but here, where there is very little of either, the paper lozenges answer
tolerably well. The bourgeois, however, begin to have their houses sashed with glass. Between
the town-wall and the sea, the fishermen haul up their boats upon the open beach; but on the
other side of the rock, where the castle stood, is the port or harbour of Nice, upon which
some money has been expended. It is a small basin, defended to seaward by a mole of free-stone,
which is much better contrived than executed: for the sea has already made three breaches in
it; and in all probability, in another winter, the extremity of it will be carried quite away.
It would require the talents of a very skilful architect to lay the foundation of a good mole,
on an open beach like this; exposed to the swell of the whole Mediterranean, without any island
or rock in the offing, to break the force of the waves. Besides, the shore is bold, and the
bottom foul. There are seventeen feet of water in the basin, sufficient to float vessels of
one hundred and fifty ton; and this is chiefly supplied by a small stream of very fine water;
another great convenience for shipping. On the side of the mole, there is a constant guard
of soldiers, and a battery of seven cannon, pointing to the sea. On the other side, there is
a curious manufacture for twisting or reeling silk; a tavern, a coffee-house, and several other
buildings, for the convenience of the sea-faring people. Without the harbour, is a lazarette,
where persons coming from infected places, are obliged to perform quarantine. The harbour has
been declared a free-port, and it is generally full of tartans, polacres, and other small vessels,
that come from Sardinia, Ivica, Italy, and Spain, loaded with salt, wine, and other commodities;
but here is no trade of any great consequence.

The city of Nice is provided with a senate, which administers justice under the auspices of
an avocat-general, sent hither by the king. The internal oeconomy of the town is managed by
four consuls; one for the noblesse, another for the merchants, a third for the bourgeois, and
a fourth for the peasants. These are chosen annually from the town-council. They keep the streets
and markets in order, and superintend the public works. There is also an intendant, who takes
care of his majesty's revenue: but there is a discretionary power lodged in the person of the
commandant, who is always an officer of rank in the service, and has under his immediate command
the regiment which is here in garrison. That which is here now is a Swiss battalion, of which
the king has five or six in his service. There is likewise a regiment of militia, which is
exercised once a year. But of all these particulars, I shall speak more fully on another occasion.

When I stand upon the rampart, and look round me, I can scarce help thinking myself inchanted.
The small extent of country which I see, is all cultivated like a garden. Indeed, the plain
presents nothing but gardens, full of green trees, loaded with oranges, lemons, citrons, and
bergamots, which make a delightful appearance. If you examine them more nearly, you will find
plantations of green pease ready to gather; all sorts of sallading, and pot-herbs, in perfection;
and plats of roses, carnations, ranunculas, anemonies, and daffodils, blowing in full glory,
with such beauty, vigour, and perfume, as no flower in England ever exhibited.

I must tell you, that presents of carnations are sent from hence, in the winter, to Turin and
Paris; nay, sometimes as far as London, by the post. They are packed up in a wooden box, without
any sort of preparation, one pressed upon another: the person who receives them, cuts off a
little bit of the stalk, and steeps them for two hours in vinegar and water, when they recover
their full bloom and beauty. Then he places them in water-bottles, in an apartment where they
are screened from the severities of the weather; and they will continue fresh and unfaded the
best part of a month.

Amidst the plantations in the neighbourhood of Nice, appear a vast number of white bastides,
or country-houses, which make a dazzling shew. Some few of these are good villas, belonging
to the noblesse of this county; and even some of the bourgeois are provided with pretty lodgeable
cassines; but in general, they are the habitations of the peasants, and contain nothing but
misery and vermin. They are all built square; and, being whitened with lime or plaister, contribute
greatly to the richness of the view. The hills are shaded to the tops with olive-trees, which
are always green; and those hills are over-topped by more distant mountains, covered with snow.
When I turn myself towards the sea, the view is bounded by the horizon; yet in a clear morning,
one can perceive the high lands of Corsica. On the right hand, it is terminated by Antibes,
and the mountain of Esterelles, which I described in my last. As for the weather, you will
conclude, from what I have said of the oranges, flowers, etc. that it must be wonderfully mild
and serene: but of the climate, I shall speak hereafter. Let me only observe, en passant, that
the houses in general have no chimnies, but in their kitchens; and that many people, even of
condition, at Nice, have no fire in their chambers, during the whole winter. When the weather
happens to be a little more sharp than usual, they warm their apartments with a brasiere or
pan of charcoal.

Though Nice itself retains few marks of antient splendor, there are considerable monuments
of antiquity in its neighbourhood. About two short miles from the town, upon the summit of
a pretty high hill, we find the ruins of the antient city Cemenelion, now called Cimia, which
was once the metropolis of the Maritime Alps, and the scat of a Roman president. With respect
to situation, nothing could be more agreeable or salubrious. It stood upon the gentle ascent
and summit of a hill, fronting the Mediterranean; from the shore of which, it is distant about
half a league; and, on the other side, it overlooked a bottom, or narrow vale, through which
the Paglion (antiently called Paulo) runs towards the walls of Nice. It was inhabited by a
people, whom Ptolomy and Pliny call the Vedantij: but these were undoubtedly mixed with a Roman
colony, as appears by the monuments which still remain; I mean the ruins of an amphitheatre,
a temple of Apollo, baths, aqueducts, sepulchral, and other stones, with inscriptions, and
a great number of medals which the peasants have found by accident, in digging and labouring
the vineyards and cornfields, which now cover the ground where the city stood.

Touching this city, very little is to be learned from the antient historians: but that it was
the seat of a Roman praeses, is proved by the two following inscriptions, which are still extant.

  P. AELIO. SEVERINO.
  V. E. P.
  PRAESIDI. OPTIMO.
  ORDO. CEMEN.
  PATRONO.

By the Senate of Cemenelion, Dedicated to His Excellency P. Aelius Severinus, the best of Governors
and Patrons.

This is now in the possession of the count de Gubernatis, who has a country-house upon the
spot. The other, found near the same place, is in praise of the praeses Marcus Aurelius Masculus.

  M. AVRELIO. MASCVLO.
  V. E.
  OB. EXIMIAM. PRAESIDATVS
  EIVS. INTEGRITATEM. ET
  EGREGIAM. AD OMNES HOMINES
  MANSVETVDINEM. ET. VRGENTIS
  ANNONAE. SINCERAM. PRAEBITIONEM.
  AC. MVNIFICENTIAM. ET. QVOD. AQVAE
  VSVM. VETVSTATE. LAPSVM. REQVI-
  SITVM. AC. REPERTVM. SAECVLI
  FELICITATE. CVRSVI. PRISTINO
  REDDIDERIT.
  COLLEG. III.
  QVIB. EX. SCC. P. EST
  PATRONO. DIGNISS.

Inscribed by the three corporations under the authority of the Senate, to their most worthy
Patron, His Excellency M. Aurelius Masculus, in testimony of their gratitude for the blessings
of his incorruptible administration, his wonderful affability to all without Distinction, his
generous Distribution of Corn in time of Dearth, his munificence in repairing the ruinous aqueduct,
in searching for, discovering and restoring the water to its former course for the Benefit
of the Community.

This president well deserved such a mark of respect from a people whom he had assisted in two
such essential articles, as their corn and their water. You know the praeses of a Roman province
had the jus sigendi clavi, the right to drive a nail in the Kalendar, the privilege of wearing
the latus clavus, or broad studs on his garment, the gladius, infula, praetexta, purpura &
annulus aureus, the Sword, Diadem, purple Robe, and gold Ring, he had his vasa, vehicula, apparitores,
Scipio eburneus, & sella curulis, Kettledrums, [I know the kettledrum is a modern invention;
but the vasa militari modo conclamata was something analogous.] Chariots, Pursuivants, ivory
staff, and chair of state.

I shall give you one more sepulchral inscription on a marble, which is now placed over the
gate of the church belonging to the convent of St. Pont, a venerable building, which stands
at the bottom of the hill, fronting the north side of the town of Nice. This St. Pont, or Pontius,
was a Roman convert to Christianity, who suffered martyrdom at Cemenelion in the year 261,
during the reigns of the emperors Valerian and Gallienus. The legends recount some ridiculous
miracles wrought in favour of this saint, both before and after his death. Charles V. emperor
of Germany and king of Spain, caused this monastery to be built on the spot where Pontius suffered
decapitation. But to return to the inscription: it appears in these words.

  M. M. A.
  FLAVIAE. BASILLAE. CONIVG. CARISSIM.
  DOM. ROMA. MIRAE. ERGA. MARITUM. AMORIS.
  ADQ. CASTITAT. FAEMINAE. QVAE. VIXIT
  ANN. XXXV. M. III. DIEB. XII. AVRELIVS
  RHODISMANVS. AVG. LIB. COMMEM. ALP.
  MART. ET. AVRELIA, ROMVLA. FILII.
  IMPATIENTISSIM. DOLOR. EIVS. ADFLICTI
  ADQ. DESOLATI. CARISSIM. AC MERENT. FERET.
  FEC. ET. DED,

Freely consecrated by Aurelius Rhodismanus, the Emperor's Freedman, to the much honoured memory
of his dear Consort Flavia Aurelia of Rome, a woman equally distinguished by her unblemished
Virtue and conjugal affection. His children Martial and Aurelia Romula deeply affected and
distressed by the Violence of his Grief, erected and dedicated a monument to their dear deserving
Parent.  [I don't pretend to translate these inscriptions literally, because I am doubtful
about the meaning of some abbreviations.]

The amphitheatre of Cemenelion is but very small, compared to that of Nismes. The arena is
ploughed up, and bears corn: some of the seats remain, and part of two opposite porticos; but
all the columns, and the external facade of the building, are taken away so that it is impossible
to judge of the architecture, all we can perceive is, that it was built in an oval form. About
one hundred paces from the amphitheatre stood an antient temple, supposed to have been dedicated
to Apollo. The original roof is demolished, as well as the portico; the vestiges of which may
still be traced. The part called the Basilica, and about one half of the Cella Sanctior, remain,
and are converted into the dwelling-house and stable of the peasant who takes care of the count
de Gubernatis's garden, in which this monument stands. In the Cella Sanctior, I found a lean
cow, a he-goat, and a jack-ass; the very same conjunction of animals which I had seen drawing
a plough in Burgundy. Several mutilated statues have been dug up from the ruins of this temple;
and a great number of medals have been found in the different vineyards which now occupy the
space upon which stood the antient city of Cemenelion. These were of gold, silver, and brass.
Many of them were presented to Charles Emanuel I. duke of Savoy. The prince of Monaco has a
good number of them in his collection; and the rest are in private hands. The peasants, in
digging, have likewise found many urns, lachrymatories, and sepulchral stones, with epitaphs,
which are now dispersed among different convents and private houses. All this ground is a rich
mine of antiquities, which, if properly worked, would produce a great number of valuable curiosities.
Just by the temple of Apollo were the ruins of a bath, composed of great blocks of marble,
which have been taken away for the purposes of modern building. In all probability, many other
noble monuments of this city have been dilapidated by the same barbarous oeconomy. There are
some subterranean vaults, through which the water was conducted to this bath, still extant
in the garden of the count de Gubernatis. Of the aqueduct that conveyed water to the town,
I can say very little, but that it was scooped through a mountain: that this subterranean passage
was discovered some years ago, by removing the rubbish which choaked it up: that the people
penetrating a considerable way, by the help of lighted torches, found a very plentiful stream
of water flowing in an aqueduct, as high as an ordinary man, arched over head, and lined with
a sort of cement. They could not, however, trace this stream to its source; and it is again
stopped up with earth and rubbish. There is not a soul in this country, who has either spirit
or understanding to conduct an inquiry of this kind. Hard by the amphitheatre is a convent
of Recollets, built in a very romantic situation, on the brink of a precipice. On one side
of their garden, they ascend to a kind of esplanade, which they say was part of the citadel
of Cemenelion. They have planted it with cypress-trees, and flowering-shrubs. One of the monks
told me, that it is vaulted below, as they can plainly perceive by the sound of their instruments
used in houghing the ground. A very small expence would bring the secrets of this cavern to
light. They have nothing to do, but to make a breach in the wall, which appears uncovered towards
the garden.

The city of Cemenelion was first sacked by the Longobards, who made an irruption into Provence,
under their king Alboinus, about the middle of the sixth century. It was afterwards totally
destroyed by the Saracens, who, at different times, ravaged this whole coast. The remains of
the people are supposed to have changed their habitation, and formed a coalition with the inhabitants
of Nice.

What further I have to say of Nice, you shall know in good time; at present, I have nothing
to add, but what you very well know, that I am always your affectionate humble servant.

LETTER, XIV

NICE, January 20, 1764.

DEAR SIR,--Last Sunday I crossed Montalban on horseback, with some Swiss officers, on a visit
to our consul, Mr. B--d, who lives at Ville Franche, about half a league from Nice. It is a
small town, built upon the side of a rock, at the bottom of the harbour, which is a fine basin,
surrounded with hills on every side, except to the south, where it lies open to the sea. If
there was a small island in the mouth of it, to break off the force of the waves, when the
wind is southerly, it would be one of the finest harbours in the world; for the ground is exceeding
good for anchorage: there is a sufficient depth of water, and room enough for the whole navy
of England. On the right hand, as you enter the port, there is an elegant fanal, or lighthouse,
kept in good repair: but in all the charts of this coast which I have seen, this lanthorn is
laid down to the westward of the harbour; an error equally absurd and dangerous, as it may
mislead the navigator, and induce him to run his ship among the rocks, to the eastward of the
lighthouse, where it would undoubtedly perish. Opposite to the mouth of the harbour is the
fort, which can be of no service, but in defending the shipping and the town by sea; for, by
land, it is commanded by Montalban, and all the hills in the neighbourhood. In the war of 1744,
it was taken and retaken. At present, it is in tolerable good repair. On the left of the fort,
is the basin for the gallies, with a kind of dock, in which they are built, and occasionally
laid up to be refitted. This basin is formed by a pretty stone mole; and here his Sardinian
majesty's two gallies lie perfectly secure, moored with their sterns close to the jette. I
went on board one of these vessels, and saw about two hundred miserable wretches, chained to
the banks on which they sit and row, when the galley is at sea. This is a sight which a British
subject, sensible of the blessing he enjoys, cannot behold without horror and compassion. Not
but that if we consider the nature of the case, with coolness and deliberation, we must acknowledge
the justice, and even sagacity, of employing for the service of the public, those malefactors
who have forfeited their title to the privileges of the community. Among the slaves at Ville
Franche is a Piedmontese count, condemned to the gallies for life, in consequence of having
been convicted of forgery. He is permitted to live on shore; and gets money by employing the
other slaves to knit stockings for sale. He appears always in the Turkish habit, and is in
a fair way of raising a better fortune than that which he has forfeited.

It is a great pity, however, and a manifest outrage against the law of nations, as well as
of humanity, to mix with those banditti, the Moorish and Turkish prisoners who are taken in
the prosecution of open war. It is certainly no justification of this barbarous practice, that
the Christian prisoners are treated as cruelly at Tunis and Algiers. It would be for the honour
of Christendom, to set an example of generosity to the Turks; and, if they would not follow
it, to join their naval forces, and extirpate at once those nests of pirates, who have so long
infested the Mediterranean. Certainly, nothing can be more shameful, than the treaties which
France and the Maritime Powers have concluded with those barbarians. They supply them with
artillery, arms, and ammunition, to disturb their neighbours. They even pay them a sort of
tribute, under the denomination of presents; and often put up with insults tamely, for the
sordid consideration of a little gain in the way of commerce. They know that Spain, Sardinia,
and almost all the Catholic powers in the Mediterranean, Adriatic, and Levant, are at perpetual
war with those Mahometans; that while Algiers, Tunis, and Sallee, maintain armed cruisers at
sea, those Christian powers will not run the risque of trading in their own bottoms, but rather
employ as carriers the maritime nations, who are at peace with the infidels. It is for our
share of this advantage, that we cultivate the piratical States of Barbary, and meanly purchase
passports of them, thus acknowledging them masters of the Mediterranean.

The Sardinian gallies are mounted each with five-and-twenty oars, and six guns, six-pounders,
of a side, and a large piece of artillery amidships, pointing ahead, which (so far as I am
able to judge) can never be used point-blank, without demolishing the head or prow of the galley.
The accommodation on board for the officers is wretched. There is a paltry cabin in the poop
for the commander; but all the other officers lie below the slaves, in a dungeon, where they
have neither light, air, nor any degree of quiet; half suffocated by the heat of the place;
tormented by fleas, bugs, and lice; and disturbed by the incessant noise over head. The slaves
lie upon the naked banks, without any other covering than a tilt. This, however, is no great
hardship, in a climate where there is scarce any winter. They are fed with a very scanty allowance
of bread, and about fourteen beans a day and twice a week they have a little rice, or cheese,
but most of them, while they are in harbour knit stockings, or do some other kind of work,
which enables them to make some addition to this wretched allowance. When they happen to be
at sea in bad weather, their situation is truly deplorable. Every wave breaks over the vessel,
and not only keeps them continually wet, but comes with such force, that they are dashed against
the banks with surprising violence: sometimes their limbs are broke, and sometimes their brains
dashed out. It is impossible (they say) to keep such a number of desperate people under any
regular command, without exercising such severities as must shock humanity. It is almost equally
impossible to maintain any tolerable degree of cleanliness, where such a number of wretches
are crouded together without conveniences, or even the necessaries of life. They are ordered
twice a week to strip, clean, and bathe themselves in the sea: but, notwithstanding all the
precautions of discipline, they swarm with vermin, and the vessel smells like an hospital,
or crouded jail. They seem, nevertheless, quite insensible of their misery, like so many convicts
in Newgate: they laugh and sing, and swear, and get drunk when they can. When you enter by
the stern, you are welcomed by a band of music selected from the slaves; and these expect a
gratification. If you walk forwards, you must take care of your pockets. You will be accosted
by one or other of the slaves, with a brush and blacking-ball for cleaning your shoes; and
if you undergo this operation, it is ten to one but your pocket is picked. If you decline his
service, and keep aloof, you will find it almost impossible to avoid a colony of vermin, which
these fellows have a very dexterous method of conveying to strangers. Some of the Turkish prisoners,
whose ransom or exchange is expected, are allowed to go ashore, under proper inspection; and
those forcats, who have served the best part of the time for which they were condemned, are
employed in public works, under a guard of soldiers. At the harbour of Nice, they are hired
by ship-masters to bring ballast, and have a small proportion of what they earn, for their
own use: the rest belongs to the king. They are distinguished by an iron shackle about one
of their legs. The road from Nice to Ville Franche is scarce passable on horseback: a circumstance
the more extraordinary, as those slaves, in the space of two or three months, might even make
it fit for a carriage, and the king would not be one farthing out of pocket, for they are quite
idle the greatest part of the year.

The gallies go to sea only in the summer. In tempestuous weather, they could not live out of
port. Indeed, they are good for nothing but in smooth water during a calm; when, by dint of
rowing, they make good way. The king of Sardinia is so sensible of their inutility, that he
intends to let his gallies rot; and, in lieu of them, has purchased two large frigates in England,
one of fifty, and another of thirty guns, which are now in the harbour of Ville Franche. He
has also procured an English officer, one Mr. A--, who is second in command on board of one
of them, and has the title of captain consulteur, that is, instructor to the first captain,
the marquis de M--i, who knows as little of seamanship as I do of Arabic.

The king, it is said, intends to have two or three more frigates, and then he will be more
than a match for the Barbary corsairs, provided care be taken to man his fleet in a proper
manner: but this will never be done, unless he invites foreigners into his service, officers
as well as seamen; for his own dominions produce neither at present. If he is really determined
to make the most of the maritime situation of his dominions, as well as of his alliance with
Great-Britain, he ought to supply his ships with English mariners, and put a British commander
at the head of his fleet. He ought to erect magazines and docks at Villa Franca; or if there
is not conveniency for building, he may at least have pits and wharfs for heaving down and
careening; and these ought to be under the direction of Englishmen, who best understand all
the particulars of marine oeconomy. Without all doubt, he will not be able to engage foreigners,
without giving them liberal appointments; and their being engaged in his service will give
umbrage to his own subjects: but, when the business is to establish a maritime power, these
considerations ought to be sacrificed to reasons of public utility. Nothing can be more absurd
and unreasonable, than the murmurs of the Piedmontese officers at the preferment of foreigners,
who execute those things for the advantage of their country, of which they know themselves
incapable. When Mr. P--n was first promoted in the service of his Sardinian majesty, he met
with great opposition, and numberless mortifications, from the jealousy of the Piedmontese
officers, and was obliged to hazard his life in many rencounters with them, before they would
be quiet. Being a man of uncommon spirit, he never suffered the least insult or affront to
pass unchastised. He had repeated opportunities of signalizing his valour against the Turks;
and by dint of extraordinary merit, and long services not only attained the chief command of
the gallies, with the rank of lieutenant-general, but also acquired a very considerable share
of the king's favour, and was appointed commandant of Nice. His Sardinian majesty found his
account more ways than one, in thus promoting Mr. P--n. He made the acquisition of an excellent
officer, of tried courage and fidelity, by whose advice he conducted his marine affairs. This
gentleman was perfectly well esteemed at the court of London. In the war of 1744, he lived
in the utmost harmony with the British admirals who commanded our fleet in the Mediterranean.
In consequence of this good understanding, a thousand occasional services were performed by
the English ships, for the benefit of his master, which otherwise could not have been done,
without a formal application to our ministry; in which case, the opportunities would have been
lost. I know our admirals had general orders and instructions, to cooperate in all things with
his Sardinian majesty; but I know, also, by experience, how little these general instructions
avail, when the admiral is not cordially interested in the service. Were the king of Sardinia
at present engaged with England in a new war against France, and a British squadron stationed
upon this coast, as formerly, he would find a great difference in this particular. He should
therefore carefully avoid having at Nice a Savoyard commandant, utterly ignorant of sea affairs;
unacquainted with the true interest of his master; proud, and arbitrary; reserved to strangers,
from a prejudice of national jealousy; and particularly averse to the English.

With respect to the antient name of Villa Franca, there is a dispute among antiquarians. It
is not at all mentioned in the Itinerarium of Antoninus, unless it is meant as the port of
Nice. But it is more surprising, that the accurate Strabo, in describing this coast, mentions
no such harbour. Some people imagine it is the Portus Herculis Monaeci. But this is undoubtedly
what is now called Monaco; the harbour of which exactly tallies with what Strabo says of the
Portus Monaeci-- neque magnas, neque multas capit naves, It holds but a few vessels and those
of small burthen. Ptolomy, indeed, seems to mention it under the name of Herculis Portus, different
from the Portus Monaeci. His words are these: post vari ostium ad Ligustrium mare, massiliensium,
sunt Nicaea, Herculis Portus, Trophaea Augusti, Monaeci Portus, Beyond the mouth of the Var
upon the Ligurian Coast, the Marsilian Colonies are Nice, Port Hercules, Trophaea and Monaco.
In that case, Hercules was worshipped both here and at Monaco, and gave his name to both places.
But on this subject, I shall perhaps speak more fully in another letter, after I have seen
the Trophaea Augusti, now called Tourbia, and the town of Monaco, which last is about three
leagues from Nice. Here I cannot help taking notice of the following elegant description from
the Pharsalia, which seems to have been intended for this very harbour.

  Finis et Hesperiae promoto milite varus,
  Quaque sub Herculeo sacratus numine Portus
  Urget rupe cava Pelagus, non Corus in illum
  Jus habet, aut Zephirus, solus sua littora turbat
  Circius, et tuta prohibet statione Monaeci.

  The Troops advanc'd as far
  As flows th' Hesperian Boundary, the Var;
  And where the mountain scoop'd by nature's hands,
  The spacious Port of Hercules, expands;

  Here the tall ships at anchor safe remain
  Tho' Zephyr blows, or Caurus sweeps the Plain;
  The Southern Blast alone disturbs the Bay;
  And to Monaco's safer Port obstructs the way.

The present town of Villa Franca was built and settled in the thirteenth century, by order
of Charles II. king of the Sicilies, and count of Provence, in order to defend the harbour
from the descents of the Saracens, who at that time infested the coast. The inhabitants were
removed hither from another town, situated on the top of a mountain in the neighbourhood, which
those pirates had destroyed. Some ruins of the old town are still extant. In order to secure
the harbour still more effectually, Emanuel Philibert, duke of Savoy, built the fort in the
beginning of the last century, together with the mole where the gallies are moored. As I said
before, Ville Franche is built on the face of a barren rock, washed by the sea; and there is
not an acre of plain ground within a mile of it. In summer, the reflexion of the sun from the
rocks must make it intolerably hot; for even at this time of the year, I walked myself into
a profuse sweat, by going about a quarter of a mile to see the gallies.

Pray remember me to our friends at A--'s, and believe me to be ever yours.

LETTER XV

NICE, January 3, 1764.

MADAM,--In your favour which I received by Mr. M--l, you remind me of my promise, to communicate
the remarks I have still to make on the French nation; and at the same time you signify your
opinion, that I am too severe in my former observations. You even hint a suspicion, that this
severity is owing to some personal cause of resentment; but, I protest, I have no particular
cause of animosity against any individual of that country. I have neither obligation to, nor
quarrel with, any subject of France; and when I meet with a Frenchman worthy of my esteem,
I can receive him into my friendship with as much cordiality, as I could feel for any fellow-citizen
of the same merit. I even respect the nation, for the number of great men it has produced in
all arts and sciences. I respect the French officers, in particular, for their gallantry and
valour; and especially for that generous humanity which they exercise towards their enemies,
even amidst the horrors of war. This liberal spirit is the only circumstance of antient chivalry,
which I think was worth preserving. It had formerly flourished in England, but was almost extinguished
in a succession of civil wars, which are always productive of cruelty and rancour. It was Henry
IV. of France, (a real knight errant) who revived it in Europe. He possessed that greatness
of mind, which can forgive injuries of the deepest dye: and as he had also the faculty of distinguishing
characters, he found his account, in favouring with his friendship and confidence, some of
those who had opposed him in the field with the most inveterate perseverance. I know not whether
he did more service to mankind in general, by reviving the practice of treating his prisoners
with generosity, than he prejudiced his own country by patronizing the absurd and pernicious
custom of duelling, and establishing a punto, founded in diametrical opposition to common sense
and humanity.

I have often heard it observed, that a French officer is generally an agreeable companion when
he is turned of fifty. Without all doubt, by that time, the fire of his vivacity, which makes
him so troublesome in his youth, will be considerably abated, and in other respects, he must
be improved by his experience. But there is a fundamental error in the first principles of
his education, which time rather confirms than removes. Early prejudices are for the most part
converted into habits of thinking; and accordingly you will find the old officers in the French
service more bigotted than their juniors, to the punctilios of false honour.

A lad of a good family no sooner enters into the service, than he thinks it incumbent upon
him to shew his courage in a rencontre. His natural vivacity prompts him to hazard in company
every thing that comes uppermost, without any respect to his seniors or betters; and ten to
one but he says something, which he finds it necessary to maintain with his sword. The old
officer, instead of checking his petulance, either by rebuke or silent disapprobation, seems
to be pleased with his impertinence, and encourages every sally of his presumption. Should
a quarrel ensue, and the parties go out, he makes no efforts to compromise the dispute; but
sits with a pleasing expectation to learn the issue of the rencontre. If the young man is wounded,
he kisses him with transport, extols his bravery, puts him into the hands of the surgeon, and
visits him with great tenderness every day, until he is cured. If he is killed on the spot,
he shrugs up his shoulders--says, quelle dommage! c'etoit un amiable enfant! ah, patience!
What pity! he was a fine Boy! It can't be helpt! and in three hours the defunct is forgotten.
You know, in France, duels are forbid, on pain of death: but this law is easily evaded. The
person insulted walks out; the antagonist understands the hint, and follows him into the street,
where they justle as if by accident, draw their swords, and one of them is either killed or
disabled, before any effectual means can be used to part them. Whatever may be the issue of
the combat, the magistrate takes no cognizance of it; at least, it is interpreted into an accidental
rencounter, and no penalty is incurred on either side. Thus the purpose of the law is entirely
defeated, by a most ridiculous and cruel connivance. The meerest trifles in conversation, a
rash word, a distant hint, even a look or smile of contempt, is sufficient to produce one of
these combats; but injuries of a deeper dye, such as terms of reproach, the lie direct, a blow,
or even the menace of a blow, must be discussed with more formality. In any of these cases,
the parties agree to meet in the dominions of another prince, where they can murder each other,
without fear of punishment. An officer who is struck, or even threatened with a blow must not
be quiet, until he either kills his antagonist, or loses his own life. A friend of mine, (a
Nissard) who was in the service of France, told me, that some years ago, one of their captains,
in the heat of passion, struck his lieutenant. They fought immediately: the lieutenant was
wounded and disarmed. As it was an affront that could not be made up, he no sooner recovered
of his wounds, than he called out the captain a second time. In a word, they fought five times
before the combat proved decisive at last, the lieutenant was left dead on the spot. This was
an event which sufficiently proved the absurdity of the punctilio that gave rise to it. The
poor gentleman who was insulted, and outraged by the brutality of the aggressor, found himself
under the necessity of giving him a further occasion to take away his life. Another adventure
of the same kind happened a few years ago in this place. A French officer having threatened
to strike another, a formal challenge ensued; and it being agreed that they should fight until
one of them dropped, each provided himself with a couple of pioneers to dig his grave on the
spot. They engaged just without one of the gates of Nice, in presence of a great number of
spectators, and fought with surprising fury, until the ground was drenched with their blood.
At length one of them stumbled, and fell; upon which the other, who found himself mortally
wounded, advancing, and dropping his point, said, "Je te donne ce que tu m'as ote." "I'll give
thee that which thou hast taken from me." So saying, he dropped dead upon the field. The other,
who had been the person insulted, was so dangerously wounded that he could not rise. Some of
the spectators carried him forthwith to the beach, and putting him into a boat, conveyed him
by sea to Antibes. The body of his antagonist was denied Christian burial, as he died without
absolution, and every body allowed that his soul went to hell: but the gentlemen of the army
declared, that he died like a man of honour. Should a man be never so well inclined to make
atonement in a peaceable manner, for an insult given in the heat of passion, or in the fury
of intoxication, it cannot be received. Even an involuntary trespass from ignorance, or absence
of mind, must be cleansed with blood. A certain noble lord, of our country, when he was yet
a commoner, on his travels, involved himself in a dilemma of this sort, at the court of Lorrain.
He had been riding out, and strolling along a public walk, in a brown study, with his horse-whip
in his hand, perceived a caterpillar crawling on the back of a marquis, who chanced to be before
him. He never thought of the petit maitre; but lifting up his whip, in order to kill the insect,
laid it across his shoulders with a crack, that alarmed all the company in the walk.