In Lima, the painful impression produced by an earthquake is heightened by the universality
of the exercise of the devotions (plegarias) on such a calamity. Immediately on the shock being
felt, a signal is given from the cathedral, and the long-measured ten-minute tollings of all
the church bells summon the inhabitants to prayers.

Taking a comprehensive view of the whole coast of Peru, we perceive that Lima lies in one of
those oases which break the continuity of the extensive sand-flats. These valleys present themselves
wherever a river, after a short course from the Cordilleras, falls into the sea; they are always
fan-shaped widenings of the mountain ravines. The valley of Lima lies in the widest extension
of the Quebrada of Mutucamas. This narrow gorge, which has its main direction from E.N.E. to
W.S.W., widens at Cocachacra, and extends into San Pedro Mama, where the Quebrada of San Geronimo
unites with it. It then runs down to the coast, extending more and more in width, and is intersected
by the Rimac.[39] This river rises in two branches, the largest of which has its source in
some small lagunes, in the upper part of Antarangra, on a height 15,600 feet above the level
of the sea. The second and shorter branch takes its source from a small lake in the heights
of Carampoma, flows through the valley of San Geronimo, and near San Pedro unites with the
Rimac. The most considerable streams of the south-eastern confluence are those which rise in
the heights of Carhuapampa, and near Tambo de Viso, flow into the main stream. During winter
the Rimac is very inconsiderable, but when the rainy season sets in it swells greatly, and
in the upper regions, particularly between Surco and Cocachacra, causes great devastations.
In the lower part where the bed becomes broad and the banks are not much built on, no considerable
damage occurs.

Several small conduits are brought from the Rimac, some for giving moisture to fields, and
others for filling the street trenches of Lima. The water for supplying the fountains of the
Capital does not, however, come from the river, but from two springs situated 1-1/4 league
from Lima in a thicket near an old Indian settlement, called Santa Rosa, in the valley of Surco.
They are inclosed within a building called the Puello, or Atarrea, whence the waters are conveyed
by a subterraneous trench to the Reservoir (Caja de Santa Tomas), from which it is distributed
by pipes to 112 public and private fountains. During the insurrection of the Indians in 1781,
which was instigated by the unfortunate Cacique Don José Gabriel Tupac Amaru, one of the sworn
determinations of the participators in that very extensive conspiracy was to drive the Spaniards
out of Lima by artifice or force. Among the numerous plans for accomplishing that object, I
will mention two which have reference to the water of Lima. One scheme was to poison the whole
of the inhabitants. For this purpose a rich Cacique of the vale of Huarochirin went to an apothecary
near the bridge, and asked for two hundred weight of corrosive sublimate, saying that he would
pay well for it. The apothecary had not entire confidence in the Indian, but he did not think
it right to forego the opportunity of making a very profitable sale; so, instead of the sublimate,
he made up the same quantity of alum for the Cacique and received the price he demanded. Next
morning all the water in Lima was unfit for use. On examination it was found that the enclosure
of the Atarrea was broken down, and the source saturated with alum. The offender remained undiscovered.

The second plan was formed with more circumspection. The conspirators resolved on a certain
day to send into the city a number of Indians, who were to conceal themselves on the roofs
of the shops (Pulperias), in which quantities of firewood were kept for sale. The moment the
cathedral struck the hour of midnight, the concealed Indians were to set fire to the wood.
Another division of Indians was immediately to dam up the river at the convent of Santa Clara,
and thereby lay the streets under water. During the unavoidable confusion, which must have
taken place, the main body of the Indians was to enter the town and massacre all the whites.
This well-combined plan was by mere accident discovered, when it was of course frustrated.

The fertility of the soil round Lima is very great when irrigation is practicable. Where this
cannot be accomplished, the earth withholds even the most scanty vegetation. The riego, or
irrigation, is thus effected. On certain days the water conduits are closed, and the fields
are laid under water. When there is a deficient supply of water, the trenches, or conduits,
are not opened till the following day. When, however, the supply of water is abundant, the
riego takes place early every morning.

As the same identical plants are cultivated along almost the whole coast, I will here notice
them, to save the necessity of returning to them hereafter.

COTTON is cultivated only in a few plantations in the immediate vicinity of Lima; but it abounds
more in the northern districts, particularly in the department de la Libertad, in the coast
province Piura, in Lambayeque, and in Truxillo. In the southern province, Yca, a considerable
quantity is also reared for exportation. The brown cotton was chiefly cultivated in the time
of the Incas. Most of the bodies found in the ancient graves on the coast are enveloped in
this kind of cotton.

The SUGAR CANE is cultivated with success in all plantations where there is sufficient moisture
of soil; and of all the agricultural produce of the country, yields the greatest profit. The
sugar estates lie on the sea-coast, or along the banks of rivers. The vertical limit of the
sugar cane growth is on the western declivity of the Cordilleras, about 4500 feet above the
level of the sea, at which height I saw fields covered with it. The largest plantations, however,
do not rise above 1200 feet above the level of the sea; while those of the same extent on the
eastern declivity are at the height of 6000 feet. Within the last forty years the introduction
of the Otaheitan cane has greatly improved the Peruvian plantations in quality, and has more
especially increased the quantity of their produce; for the Otaheitan canes are found to yield
proportionally one third more than the West India canes, which were previously cultivated.

The preparation of the sugar is, as yet, conducted in a very rude and laborious manner. In
most of the plantations the cane is passed through wooden presses with brass rollers. These
machines are called trapiches or ingenios. They are kept in motion by oxen or mules. In some
large estates water power is employed, and in San Pedro de Lurin a steam-engine has been put
up, which certainly does the work quickly; but it often has to stand for a long time idle.
A part of the sugar cane juice is used for making the liquor called guarapo, or distilled for
making rum; for since the independence, the law which strictly prohibited the distillation
of spirituous liquors in plantations has been repealed. The remainder is boiled down into a
syrup, or further simmered until it thickens into cakes, called chancacas, or brown sugar.
After a careful purification it is made into the white cakes called alfajores, or prepared
as white sugar. In fineness of grain and purity of color it is inferior to the Havannah sugar,
which, however, it exceeds in sweetness. The regular weight of the sugarloaf is two arobas;
only for convenience of transport into the mountainous districts their weight is sometimes
diminished. The consumption of sugar in the country is great and its export is considerable,
but it goes only to Chile.

Of the different kinds of grain, maize is most generally and most successfully cultivated in
Peru. It grows on the sandy shore, in the fertile mountain valleys, and on the margin of the
forest, where the warmth is great. There are several varieties of maize, which are distinguished
one from another by the size of the head and by the form and appearance of the grain. The most
common kinds on the coast are--1st, the Mais Morocho, which has small bright yellow or reddish
brown grains; 2d, the Mais Amarillo, of which the grain is large, heart-shaped, solid and opaque;
3d, Mais Amarillo de Chancay, similar to the Mais Amarillo, but with a semi-transparent square-shaped
grain, and an elongated head. The Morocho and Amarillo maize are chiefly planted in the eastern
declivity of the Andes. They run up in stalks eight or nine feet high, and have enormously
large heads. In one of them I counted seventy-five grains in a single row.

Maize forms the bread of the Peruvians. It is almost the only sustenance of the Indians of
the mountains, and is the principal food of the slaves on the coast. Like the potatoe in Europe,
it is cooked in a variety of ways. Two of the most simple preparations of maize are those called
choclas and mote. Choclas are the unripe maize heads merely soaked in warm water; they form
a very agreeable and wholesome article of food. Mote consists of ripe maize first boiled and
then laid in hot ashes, after which the husks are easily stripped off.

As to whether maize is indigenous to Peru, or when it was introduced there, much has already
been written, and I shall refrain from entering into the investigation of the question here.
I may, however, mention that I have found very well preserved ears of maize in tombs, which,
judging from their construction, belong to a period anterior to the dynasty of the Incas; and
these were fragments of two kinds of maize which do not now grow in Peru. If I believed in
the transmigration and settlement of Asiatic races on the west coast of America, I should consider
it highly probable that maize, cotton, and the banana, had been brought from Asia to the great
west coast. But the supposed epoch of this alleged immigration must carry us back to the earliest
ages; for, that the Incas were (as the greater number of inquirers into Peruvian history pretend)
of Asiatic origin, is a mere vague hypothesis, unsupported by anything approximating to historical
proof.

Since the earthquake of 1687 the crops of maize on the Peruvian coast have been very inconsiderable.
In the mountainous parts it is somewhat more abundant, but still far from sufficient to supply
the wants of the country. Chile supplies, in return for sugar, the maize required in Peru.
Of the other kinds of grain barley only is raised; but it does not thrive on the coast, and
is cultivated successfully at the height of from 7000 to 13,200 feet above the level of the
sea. The assertion of some travellers, that barley was known to the Peruvians before the arrival
of the Spaniards, is groundless. It is true that barley is sometimes found in pots in Indian
graves. Those graves, however, as I have had repeated opportunities of being convinced, belong,
without exception, to modern times, chiefly to the seventeenth century.

Potatoes are not planted on the coast, where, it appears, the climate and soil are unfavorable
to them. In those parts they are small and watery. On the higher ridges which intersect the
coast at short distances from the sea, the potatoe grows wild. I am inclined to believe that
the root is indigenous in these parts, as well as in Chiloe and Chile, and that the ancient
Peruvians did not obtain this root from the south, but that they removed it from their own
high lands in order to cultivate it on a more favorable soil.[40] The best potatoe grows about
twenty-two leagues from Lima, in Huamantanga, which is about 7000 feet above the level of the
sea, to the north-west of the Quebrada of Canta. This potatoe is small and round, with a thin
white skin, and when bisected the color is a clear bright yellow. It is called the Papa amarilla,
and there is much demand for it in the markets, where it fetches a good price. The other potatoes
come chiefly from the Quebrada of Huarochirin, and they are very well flavored.

The Camotes (Convolvulus batatas, L.), not improperly called sweet potatoes, grow to a considerable
size. There are two kinds of camotes, the yellow and the violet; the latter are called Camotes
moradas. These two kinds are much liked for their excellent flavor. Beyond the height of 3500
feet above the level of the sea they cease to grow.

The Aracacha (Conium moschatum, H. B. Kth.) grows on the coast, but it is more abundant on
the projecting ridges of the Cordilleras, and on the eastern declivity of the Andes. It is
a very agreeable and nutritive kind of tuberous vegetable, in flavor not unlike celery. It
is cooked by being either simply boiled in water, or made into a kind of soup. In many districts
the aracacha yields two crops in the year.

The Yucca (Jatropha manihot) is one of the finest vegetables of Peru. The stalk of the plant
is between five and six feet high, and about the thickness of a finger. The roots are from
one to two feet long, somewhat of the turnip form. Internally they are pure white; but the
external skin is tough, somewhat elastic, and of a reddish-brown color. The roots are the edible
parts of the plant. They are very agreeable in taste, and easy of digestion. When raw they
are hard and tough, and their taste somewhat resembles chestnuts. When boiled in water the
root separates into fibres, and is rather waxy, but when laid in hot ashes it becomes mealy.

In some parts of Peru the Indians prepare a very fine flour from the yucca, and it is used
for making fine kinds of bread, and especially a kind of biscuits called biscochuelos. The
yucca roots are not good after they have been more than three days out of the earth, and even
during that time they must be placed in water, otherwise green or black stripes appear on them,
which in the cooking assume a pale red color. Their taste is then disagreeable, and they quickly
become rotten.

To propagate the yucca the stalk is cut, particularly under the thick part, into span-long
pieces, which are stuck obliquely into the earth. In five or six months the roots are fit for
use, but they are usually allowed to remain some time longer in the earth. The stalks are sometimes
cut off, and the roots left in the earth. They then put forth new leaves and flowers, and after
sixteen or eighteen months they become slightly woody. The Indians in the Montaña de Vitoc
sent as a present to their officiating priest a yucca, which weighed thirty pounds, but yet
was very tender. On the western declivity of the Cordillera, the boundary elevation for the
growth of the yucca is about 3000 feet above the level of the sea.

Among the pulse there are different kinds of peas (garbanzos) on the coast; beans (frijoles),
on the contrary, occupy the hilly grounds. All vegetables of the cabbage and salad kinds cultivated
in Europe will grow in Peru. The climate, both of the coast and the hills, suits them perfectly;
but the hot, damp temperature of the eastern declivity of the Andes is adverse to them. Numerous
varieties of the genus Cucurbita are cultivated in the chacras, or Indian villages, on the
coast. They are chiefly consumed by the colored population. I did not find them very agreeable
to the taste. They are all sweetish and fibrous.

Among the edible plants which serve for seasoning or spicery, I must mention the love-apple
(Tomate), which thrives well in all the warm districts of Peru; and the Spanish pepper (Aji),
which is found only on the coast and in the mild woody regions. There are many species of the
pepper (Capsicum annuum, baccatum, frutescens, &c.), which are sometimes eaten green, and sometimes
dried and pounded. In Peru the consumption of aji is greater than that of salt; for with two-thirds
of the dishes brought to table, more of the former than of the latter is used. It is worthy
of remark that salt diminishes, in a very striking degree, the pungency of the aji; and it
is still more remarkable that the use of the latter, which in a manner may be called a superfluity,
has no injurious effect on the digestive organs. If two pods of aji, steeped in warm vinegar,
are laid as a sinapism on the skin, in the space of a quarter of an hour the part becomes red,
and the pain intolerable; within an hour the scarf-skin will be removed. Yet I have frequently
eaten twelve or fifteen of these pods without experiencing the least injurious effect. However,
before I accustomed myself to this luxury, it used to affect me with slight symptoms of gastritis.
On the eastern declivity of the Cordilleras I found no capsicum at a greater height than 4800
feet above the level of the sea.

Lucern (Medicago sativa), called by the natives alfa or alfalfa, is reared in great abundance
throughout the whole of Peru, as fodder for cattle. It does not bear great humidity, nor severe
heat or cold; yet its elevation boundary is about 11,100 feet above the level of the sea. On
the coast it flourishes very luxuriantly during the misty season; but during the months of
February and March it is almost entirely dried up. The maisillo (Paspalum purpureum, R.) then
supplies its place as fodder for cattle. In the mountainous districts it is also most abundant
during the humid season; but, as soon as the first frost sets in, it decays, takes a rusty-brown
color, and remains in a bad state until the beginning of the rainy season. On an average, the
alfalfa may be cut four times in the year; but in highlying districts only three times; and
in humid soils on the coast, particularly in the neighborhood of rivers, five times. Once in
every four or five years the clover-fields are broken up by the plough, and then sown with
maize or barley. In the sixth year clover is again raised.

The olive-tree is cultivated chiefly in the southern provinces of the coast. In flavor, its
fruit approximates to the Spanish olive. That the oil is not so fine is probably owing to the
bad presses which are used, and the rude manner in which the operation is performed. The olives
(Aceytunas) are preserved in a peculiar manner. They are allowed to ripen on the tree, when
they are gathered, slightly pressed, dried, and put up in small earthen vessels. By this process
they become shrivelled and quite black. When served up at table pieces of tomato and aji are
laid on them: the latter is an excellent accompaniment to the oily fruit. Some preserve them
in salt water, by which means they remain plump and green.

The castor-oil plant (Ricinus communis) grows wild, but it is also cultivated in many plantations.
The considerable quantity of oil which is pressed out of the seeds is used unpurified in Lima
for the street lamps, and also in the sugar plantations, for greasing the machines employed
in the works. The purified Ricinus oil required for medicine is imported from England or Italy.

The Piñoncillo tree (Castiglionia lobata, R.) is cultivated only about Surco, Huacho, and Lambayeque,
in some of the Indian chacras; but it grows wild in considerable abundance. Its bean-like fruit,
when roasted, has an agreeable flavor. When eaten raw, the etherial oil generated between the
kernel and the epidermis is a strong aperient, and its effect can only be counteracted by drinking
cold water. When an incision is made in the stem, a clear bright liquid flows out; but after
some time it becomes black and horny like. It is a very powerful caustic, and retains its extraordinary
property for years.

The fruits of the temperate climates of Europe thrive but indifferently in the warm regions
of the coast of Peru. Apples and pears are for the most part uneatable. Of stone fruits only
the peach succeeds well. Vast quantities of apricots (called duraznos) grow in the mountain
valleys. Of fifteen kinds which came under my observation, those called blanquillos and abridores
are distinguished for fine flavor. Cherries, plums, and chestnuts I did not see in Peru, yet
I believe the climate of the Sierra is very favorable to their growth. Generally speaking,
the interior of the country is well suited to all the fruits and grain of central Europe; and
doubtless many of our forest trees would flourish on those Peruvian hills which now present
no traces of vegetation. But as yet no system of transplantation has been seriously set on
foot. The praiseworthy attempts made by many Europeans, who have sent seeds and young plants
to Peru, have failed of success, owing to the indifference of the natives to the advancement
of those objects.

All the fruits of southern Europe thrive luxuriantly in the warm regions of Peru. Oranges,
pomegranates, lemons, limes, &c., grow in incredible abundance. Though the trees bloom and
bear fruit the whole year round, yet there are particular times in which their produce is in
the greatest perfection and abundance. On the coast, for example, at the commencement of winter,
and in the woody districts in the months of February and March, melons and Sandyas (water melons)
are particularly fine.

The figs are of two kinds: the one called Higos, and the other Brevas. In the former the pulp
is red, in the latter it is white. They are usually large, very soft, and may be ranked among
the most delicious fruits of the country. Fig-trees grow frequently wild in the neighborhood
of the plantations and the Chacras: and the traveller may pluck the fruit, and carry away a
supply for his journey; for, beyond a certain distance from Lima figs are not gathered, being
a fruit not easy of transport in its fresh state; and when dried, it is not liked. Pomegranates
and quinces seldom grow on the coast: they are chiefly brought to the Lima market from the
neighboring Quebradas. The mulberry-tree flourishes luxuriantly and without cultivation; but
its fruit is not thought worth gathering, and it is left as food for the birds. In the southern
province of Yca, the cultivation of the vine has been attended by most successful results.
In the neighborhood of Lima grapes are seen only in a few Huertas (orchards); but for size,
sweetness, and aromatic flavor, there are no such grapes in any other part of the world.

Of tropical fruits, the number is not so great in Peru as in the more northerly district of
Guayaquil. But there are some Peruvian fruits, the delicious flavor of which cannot be excelled.
One of these is the Chirimoya (Anona tripetala). Hanke, in one of his letters, calls it "a
master-work of Nature." It would certainly be difficult to name any fruit possessing a more
exquisite flavor.

In Lima the Chirimoya is comparatively small, often only the size of an orange. Those who have
tasted it only in Lima, can form but a very imperfect idea of its excellence. In Huanuco, its
indigenous soil, it grows in the greatest perfection, and often attains the weight of sixteen
pounds, or upwards. The fruit is of roundish form, sometimes pyramidal, or heart-shaped, the
broad base uniting with the stem. Externally it is green, covered with small knobs and scales,
and often has black markings like net-work spread over it. When the fruit is very ripe, it
has black spots. The skin is rather thick and tough. Internally, the fruit is snow-white and
juicy, and provided with a number of small seeds well covered with a delicate substance. The
Chirimoyas of Huanuco are also distinguished from those of the coast by having only from four
to six seeds; whereas on the coast they are found with from twenty-five to thirty. The question
as to what the taste of this fruit may be compared with, I can only answer by saying, that
it is incomparable. Both the fruit and flowers of the Chirimoya emit a fine fragrance, which,
when the tree is covered with blossom, is so strong as to be almost overpowering. The tree
which bears this finest of all fruits is from fifteen to twenty feet high. It has a broad flat
top, and is of a pale-green color.

The Palta (Persea gatissima, Gärt.) is a fruit of the pear form, and dark-brown in color. The
rind is tough and elastic, but not very thick. The edible substance, which is soft and green,
encloses a kernel resembling a chestnut in form and color. This fruit is very astringent and
bitter, and on being cut, a juice flows from it which is at first yellow, but soon turns black.
The taste is peculiar, and at first not agreeable to a foreigner; but it is generally much
liked when the palate becomes accustomed to it. The fruit of the Palta dissolves like butter
on the tongue, and hence it is called in some of the French colonies beurre végétale. It is
sometimes eaten without any accompaniment, and sometimes with a little salt, or with oil and
vinegar. The kernels make very good brandy. The Palta-tree is slender and very high, with a
small dome-like top. On the eastern declivity of the Andes, I have seen some of these trees
more than sixty feet high.

The Platanos (Bananas) thrive well in most of the Peruvian plantations. They require great
heat and humidity. They grow in the greatest perfection on the banks of small rivulets. On
the coast the tree does not yield such abundance of fruit as in the woody regions, where it
is not unusual to see a tree with three hundred heads of fruit lying one over another, like
tiles on a roof. In the country adjacent to Lima, and also on other parts of the coast, three
favorite species are cultivated. The Platano de la Isla, or of Otaheite, was introduced from
that archipelago in 1769. The fruits are from three to four inches long, generally prismatic,
as they grow thickly on the stem, and lie one over another. The skin is yellow, the fruit of
a palish red, and rather mealy. The Limeños prefer this to any other species of the platano,
and they consider it the most wholesome. The fruits of the Platano Guineo are not longer, but
much thicker than those of the Platano de la Isla, but they are so full that they burst when
quite ripe. They are straight and cylindrical in form, as they grow on the stem at some distance
one from the other. They are of a bright yellow color, but near the stem spotted with black.
The edible part is whiter and softer than that of the Platano de la Isla, to which it is greatly
superior in flavor and aroma. The natives believe this fruit to be very unwholesome, and they
maintain that drinking brandy after eating Platanos Guineos causes immediate death. This is,
as my own often-repeated experiments have shown, one of the deep-rooted, groundless prejudices
to which the Peruvians obstinately cling. On one of my excursions I had a controversy on this
subject with some persons who accompanied me. To prove how unfounded their notions were, I
ate some platanos, and then washing down one poison by the other, I immediately swallowed a
mouthful of brandy. My Peruvian friends were filled with dismay. Addressing me alternately
in terms of compassion and reproach, they assured me I should never return to Lima alive. After
spending a very agreeable day, we all arrived quite well in the evening at Lima. At parting,
one of my companions seriously observed that we should never see each other again. Early next
morning they anxiously called to inquire how I was, and finding me in excellent health and
spirits, they said:--"Ah! you see, an herege de gringo (a heretic of a foreigner) is quite
of a different nature from us." A piece of the Platano Guineo soaked in brandy retains its
color unchanged; but the rib-like fibres which connect the rind with the pulp then become black,
and imbibe a bitter taste.

The fruit of the third kind of platano, the Platano Largo, is from six to eight inches long,
rather narrow, and curved crescent-wise. The rind is of a light straw color, and when the fruit
is very ripe it has large black spots. The edible part is of a whitish hue, harder and drier
than that of the two species already described; and its flavor its quite as agreeable. Its
fruit is less abundant than that of the Platano Guineo, and it requires longer time to become
fully ripe. A fourth kind, which grows in the forest regions, I have never seen on the coast.
It is the Platano Altahuillaca. It bears at most from twenty to twenty-five heads of fruit.
The stem is more than two inches thick, and above an ell long. The color of the husk is light
yellow, the enclosed substance is white, tough, and hard. In the raw state it is flavorless,
but when roasted in hot ashes, or cooked with meat, it makes a fine dish.

When the platanos of the uppermost row, that is, those which form the base of the conical-formed
reflex cluster, begin to turn yellow, or, as the natives say, pintar, the whole is cut off,
and hung up in an airy, shady situation, usually in an apartment of the Rancho, or hut, where
it may quickly ripen. The largest fruits are cut off as soon as they are yellow and soft, and
so the cutting goes on gradually up to the top, for they ripen so unequally that those at the
base show symptoms of decay while those at the top are still hard and green. As soon as the
cabeza, or cluster of fruit, is cut, the whole branch is immediately lopped off, in order to
facilitate the shooting of the fresh sprouts. Each branch bears only one cabeza, and eight
or ten months are the period usually required for its complete development.

The platanos belongs indisputably to the most useful class of fruit trees, especially in regions
where they can be cultivated extensively, for then they may very adequately supply the place
of bread. In northern Peru and Guayaquil, the platano fruit is prepared for food in a variety
of ways.

Pine-apples (Ananas) are not much cultivated on the coast of Peru. The market of Lima was formerly
entirely supplied with this fruit from the Montaña de Vitoc. When brought from thence they
used to be cut before they were ripe, and packed on the backs of asses. The journey is of sixteen
or twenty days' duration, and the road lies across two of the Cordilleras. After being several
days in the cold snowy region of the Puna, the fruit came to Lima in a very indifferent state;
but since the communication by steam navigation with Guayaquil, pine-apples are brought from
the latter place in large quantities. They are large, succulent, and very sweet.

The Granadilla (Passiflora quadrangularis) is about the size of an apple, but rather oblong.
The skin is reddish-yellow, hard, and rather thick. The edible part is grey and gelatinous,
and it contains numerous dark-colored seeds. The fruit is very agreeable, and in taste resembles
the gooseberry, and is very cooling. The Granadilla is a shrub or bush, and it twines round
the trunks of trees, or climbs up the walls of the Ranchos. It is less abundant on the coast
than in the adjacent valleys.

The Tunas are fruits of different species of Cactus. The husk, which is covered with sharp
prickles, is green, yellow, or red in color, and is easily separated from the pulp of the fruit.
When being plucked, the tunas are rubbed with straw to remove the prickles, which, however,
is not always completely accomplished. It is therefore necessary to be cautious in handling
the husks, for the small prickles cause inflammation when they get into the fingers.

The Pacay is the fruit of a tree of rather large size (Prosopis dulcis, Humb.), with a rather
low and broad top. It consists of a pod from twenty to twenty-four inches long, enclosing black
seeds, which are embedded in a white, soft, flaky substance. This flaky part is as white as
snow, and is the only eatable part of the fruit. It tastes sweet, and, to my palate at least,
it is very unpleasant; however, the Limeños on the coast and the monkeys in the woods are very
fond of the pacay.

The Lucuma is produced only in the southern provinces of the coast of Peru, and is chiefly
imported from the north of Chile. The fruit is round. The grey-brown husk encloses a fibrous,
dry, yellow-colored fruit with its kernel.

The Guayava (Psidium pomiferum) grows on a low shrub, chiefly in the valleys of the coast,
and on the eastern declivity of the Andes. It is of the form and size of a small apple. The
rind is bright, yellow, and thin. The pulp is either white or red, and is full of little egg-shaped
granulations. Its flavor is pleasant, but not remarkably fine. In Lima it is not a favorite,
for numerous insects lay their eggs in it, and, when the fruit is ripe, larvæ are found in it.

The Pepino (a cucurbitacea) is grown in great abundance in the fields. The plant is only a
foot and a half high, and it creeps on the ground. The fruit is from four to five inches long,
cylindrical, and at both ends somewhat pointed. The husk is of a yellowish green color, with
long rose-colored stripes. The pulp or edible part is solid, juicy, and well-flavored. The
kernel lies in the middle, in a long-shaped furrow. By the natives the pepino is, and not altogether
unreasonably, believed to be injurious. They maintain that this fruit is too cold in the stomach,
and that a glass of brandy is necessary to counteract its injurious properties. This much is
certain, that the pepinos are very indigestible, and that eating them frequently, or at improper
times, brings on fits of illness.

The Mani, or Earth Almond (Arachis hypogæa), is produced in the northern provinces. The plant
is from a foot and a half to two feet long, and very leafy. The kernels have a grey, shrivelled
husk: they are white, and contain much oil. When roasted and crushed, they are eaten with sugar.

The Capulies (Prunus capulin, Ser.) grows in the open fields. In towns it is planted in gardens
or in pots. The fruit is a little bigger than a cherry. It is of a deep yellow color, and has
an acid taste. The capulies are not frequently eaten. On account of their very pleasant odor,
they are used in making Pucheros de flores, or with other odoriferous flowers, they are besprinkled
with agua rica, and laid in drawers to perfume linen. The ladies of Lima wear them in their
bosoms. The same uses are made of the Palillos (Campomanesia lineatifolia, R.), which grow
on trees from twenty to thirty feet high. The bright yellow fruit is as large as a moderately-sized
apple. The palillo emits an exceedingly agreeable scent, and is one of the ingredients used
in making the perfumed water called mistura. When rubbed between the fingers, the leaves smell
like those of the myrtle; but they have an acid and a stringent taste.

The coast of Peru is poorly supplied with Palm-trees, either wild or cultivated. The Cocoa
Palm is grown only in a few of the northern provinces, and the Date Palm chiefly about Yca.
With a very little care, these trees would thrive excellently in all the oases of the coast
of Peru.

FOOTNOTES:

[Footnote 37: A great fire is a thing almost unknown in Lima. The houses are of brick, and
seldom have any wooden beams, so there is little food for a fire. The only fire which I heard
of in Lima was that of the 13th January, 1835, when the interior of the Capilla del Milagro
of San Francisco was destroyed. The repairs cost 50,000 dollars. On the 27th November, 1838,
it was again solemnly consecrated.]

[Footnote 38: The date of this catastrophe recalls the following passage in Schiller's William
Tell:--

          "'s ist heut Simons und Judä
    Da ras't der See und will sein Opfer haben."

          "'Tis the festival of Simon and Jude,
    And the lake rages for its sacrifice."
]

[Footnote 39: RIMAC is the present participle of rimay, to speak, to prattle. The river and
the valley were known by this name among all the ancient Indians. The oracle of a temple with
an idol, which stood in the neighborhood of the present city of Lima, conferred the name. It
is said that before the time of the Incas persons suspected of magic were banished to the valley
of the Rimac, on which account it obtained the name of Rimac-malca, that is, the WITCHES-VALLEY.

All the inhabited parts of the coast of Peru, especially the districts adjacent to Lima and
Truxillo, are infested by robbers, and travelling is thereby rendered extremely unsafe. These
banditti are chiefly runaway slaves (simarrones, as they are called), free negroes, zambos,
or mulattos. Occasionally they are joined by Indians, and these latter are always conspicuous
for the cruelties they perpetrate. Now and then a white man enters upon this lawless course;
and, in the year 1839, a native of North America, who had been a purser in a ship of war, was
shot in Lima for highway robbery. These robbers are always well mounted, and their fleet-footed
steeds usually enable them to elude pursuit. It is no unfrequent occurrence for slaves belonging
to the plantations to mount their masters' finest horses, and after sunset, when their work
is over, or on Sundays, when they have nothing to do, to sally forth on marauding expeditions.

Most of the highway robbers who infest the coast of Peru belong to an extensive and systematically-organized
band, headed by formidable leaders, who maintain spies in the towns and villages, from whom
they receive regular reports. They sometimes prowl about in parties of thirty or forty, in
the vicinity of the capital, and plunder every traveller they encounter; but they are most
frequently in smaller detachments. If they meet with resistance they give no quarter; therefore,
it is most prudent to submit to be plundered quietly, even when the parties attacked are stronger
than the assailants, for the latter usually have confederates at no great distance, and can
summon reinforcements in case of need. Any person who kills a robber in self-defence must ever
afterwards be in fear for his own life: even in Lima the dagger of the assassin will reach
him, and possibly at the moment when he thinks himself most safe.

Foreigners are more frequently waylaid than natives. Indeed, the rich and influential class
of Peruvians are seldom subjected to these attacks,--a circumstance which may serve to explain
why more stringent police regulations are not adopted.

The most unsafe roads are those leading to Callao, Chorillos, and Cavalleros. This last place
is on the way to Cerro de Pasco, whither transports of money are frequently sent. A few weeks
before my departure from Lima a band of thirty robbers, after a short skirmish with a feeble
escort, made themselves masters of a remittance of 100,000 dollars, destined for the mine-workers
of Pasco. The silver bars from Pasco are sent to Lima without any military guard, for they
are suffered to pass unmolested, as the robbers find them heavy and cumbrous, and they cannot
easily dispose of them. These depredations are committed close to the gates of Lima, and after
having plundered a number of travellers, the robbers will very coolly ride into the city.

