 "Rarely," says Paul de Musset, "has so small a quantity
of paper made so much noise." There was an uproar among the newspapers, some applauding with
all their might, others denouncing the exaggeration of the romantic tendency: the romanticists
themselves were disconcerted to find the "Ballade à la Lune," which they had taken as a good
joke, turned into a joke against themselves. At all events, the young man was launched, and
his vocation was thenceforth decided. In reading these first productions of Alfred de Musset's
without the prejudice or partiality of faction, it cannot be denied that if not sufficient
in themselves to ensure his immortality, they contain lines of finished beauty as perfect as
the author ever produced--ample guarantee of what might be expected from the development of
his genius.

He now began to be tired of sowing wild oats, and became less irregular in his mode of life.
A lively, pretty little comedy called Une Nuit Vénitienne, which he wrote at the request of
the director of the Odéon, for some inexplicable cause fell flat, which, besides turning him
aside from writing for the stage during a number of years, discouraged him altogether for some
time. Before he entirely recovered from the check he lost his father, who died suddenly of
cholera in 1832. The shock left him sobered and calm, anxious to fulfil his duties toward his
mother and young sister, whose means, it was feared, would be greatly diminished by the loss
of M. de Musset's salary. Alfred resolved to publish another volume of poetry, and, if this
did not succeed to a degree to warrant his considering literature a means of support, to get
a commission in the army. He set himself industriously to work, and inspiration soon rewarded
the effort: in six months his second volume appeared, comprising "Le Saule," "Vœux Stériles,"
"La Coupe et les Lèvres," "A quoi rèvent les jeunes filles," "Namouna," and several shorter
pieces. Among those enumerated there are splendid passages, second in beauty and force to but
a few of his later poems, the sublime "Nuits," "Souvenir," and the incomparable opening of
"Rolla." Again he convoked the friends who three years before had greeted the Contes d'Espagne
with acclamation, but, to the unutterable surprise and disappointment of both brothers, there
was not a word of sympathy or applause: Mérimée alone expressed his approbation, and assured
the young poet that he had made immense progress. Perhaps the others took in bad part their
former disciple's recantation of romanticism, which he makes in the dedication of "La Coupe
et les Lèvres" after the following formula:

    For my part, I hate those snivellers in boats,
      Those lovers of waterfalls, moonshine and lakes,
    That breed without name, which with journals and notes,
      Tears and verses, floods every step that it takes:
    Nature no doubt but gives back what you lend her;
    After all, it may be that they do comprehend her,
    But them I do certainly not comprehend.

The chill of this introduction was not carried off by the public reception of the Spectacle
dans un Fauteuil (as the new collection was entitled), which remained almost unnoticed for
some weeks, until Sainte-Beuve in the Revue des Deux Mondes of January 15, 1833, published
a review of this and the earlier poems, indicating their beauty and originality, the promise
of the one and progress of the other, with his infallible discernment and discrimination. A
few critics followed his lead, others differed, and discussions began again which could not
but spread the young man's fame. The Revue des Deux Mondes was now open to him, and henceforth,
with a few exceptions, whatever he wrote appeared in that periodical. He made his entry with
the drama of Andrea del Sarto, which is rife with tense and tragic situations and deeply-moving
scenes. The affairs of the family turned out much better than had been expected, but Alfred
de Musset continued to work with application and ardor. His fine critical faculty kept his
vagaries within bounds: he knew better than anybody "how much good sense it requires to do
without common sense"--a dictum of his own. Like every true artist, he took his subjects wherever
he found them: the dripping raindrops and tolling of the convent-bell suggested one of Chopin's
most enchanting Preludes; the accidental attitudes of women and children in the street have
given painters and sculptors their finest groups; so a bunch of fresh roses which De Musset's
mother put upon his table one morning during his days of extravagant dissipation, saying, "All
this for fourpence," gave him a happy idea for unravelling the perplexity of Valentin in Les
Deux Maîtresses; and his unconscious exclamation, "Si je vous le disais pourtant que je vous
aime," which caused a passer-by in the street to laugh at him, furnished the opening of the
Stances à Ninon, like Dante's

    Donne ch'avete intelletto d'amore.

These fortunate dispositions were interrupted by a meeting which affected his character and
genius more than any other event in his life. It is curious that Madame Sand and De Musset
originally avoided making each other's acquaintance. She fancied that she should not like him,
and he, although greatly struck by the genius of her first novel, Indiana, disliked her overloaded
style of writing, and struck out in pencil a quantity of superfluous adjectives and other parts
of speech in a copy which unluckily fell into her hands. Their first encounter was followed
by a sudden, almost instantaneous, mutual passion--on his part the first and strongest if not
the only one, of his life. The first season of this intimacy was like a long summer holiday.
"It seemed," writes the biographer, "as if a partnership in which existence was so gay, to
which each brought such contributions of talent, wit, grace, youth, and good-humor, could never
be dissolved. It seemed as if such happy people should find nothing better to do than remain
in a home which they had made so attractive for themselves and their friends.... I never saw
such a happy company, nor one which cared so little about the rest of the world. Conversation
never flagged: they passed their time in talking, drawing, and making music. A childish glee
reigned supreme. They invented all sorts of amusements, not because they were bored, but because
they were overflowing with spirits." But Paris became too narrow for them, and they fled--first
to Fontainebleau, then to Italy. Musset's mother was deeply opposed to the latter project,
foreseeing misfortune with the prescience of affection, and he promised not to go without her
consent, although his heart was set upon it. The most incredible story in the biography is
that Madame Sand actually surprised Madame de Musset into an interview, and, by appeals, eloquence,
persuasion and vows, obtained her sorrowful acquiescence.

The lamentable story of that Italian journey has been told too often and by too many people
to need repetition here. No doubt Paul de Musset has told it as fairly as could be expected
from his brother's side: probably the circumstances occurred much as he sets them down. But
he could not make due allowance for the effect which Alfred's dissolute habits had produced
upon his character: he was but twenty-three, and had run the round of vice; he had already
depicted the moral result of such courses in his terrible allegory of "La Coupe et les Lèvres:"
the idea recurs throughout his works, conspicuously in the Confession d'un Enfant du Siècle,
which is Madame Sand's best apology. But if his excesses had destroyed his ingenuousness, she
destroyed his faith in human nature, and on her will ever rest the brand he set in the burning
words of the "Nuit d'Octobre."

He returned to Paris shattered in mind and body, and shut himself up in his room for months,
unable to endure contact with the outer world, or even that of the loving home circle which
environed him with anxious tenderness. He could not read or write: a favorite piece of music
from his young sister's piano, a game of chess with his mother in the evening, were his only
recreations--his only excitement the letters which still came from Venice, for which he looked
with a sick longing, at which one cannot wonder on reading them and remembering what a companionship
it was that he had lost. Urged by his brother and his friend M. Buloz, the director of the
Revue des Deux Mondes, to try the efficacy of work, he completed his play of On ne badine pas
avec l'Amour, already sketched, in which, of all his dramatic writings, the cry of the heart
is most thrilling. Aided by this effort, he made a journey to Baden in September, five months
after his miserable return to Paris. The change of air and scene restored him, and his votive
offering for the success of his pilgrimage was the charming poem called "Une Bonne Fortune."
Although he had determined not to see Madame Sand again, their connection was renewed, in spite
of himself, when she came back from Italy: it lasted for a short period, full of angry and
melancholy scenes, quarrels and reconciliations. Then he broke loose for ever, and went back
to the world and his work.

This episode, of which I have briefly given the outline, was the principal event of Alfred
de Musset's life, the one which marked and colored it most deeply, which brought his genius
to perfection by a cruel and fiery torture, and left a lasting imprint upon his writings. Although
he never produced anything finer than certain passages of "Rolla," which was published in 1833,
yet previous to that--or more accurately to 1835, when he began to write again--he had composed
no long poem of equal merit throughout, none in which the flight was sustained from first to
last. The magnificent series of the "Nights" of May, December, August and October, the "Letter
to Lamartine," "Stanzas on the Death of Malibran," "Hope in God," and a number of others of
not less melody and vigor, but less exalted and serious in tone; several plays, among them
Lorenzaccio, which missed only by a very little being a fine tragedy; the greater part of his
prose tales and criticisms, including Le Fils de Titien, the most charming of his stories,
and the Confession d'un Enfant du Siècle, which shows as much genius as any of his poems,--belong
to the period from 1835 to 1840, his apogee. Of the last work, notwithstanding its unmistakable
personal revelations--which, if they do not tell the author's story, at least reflect his state
of mind--Paul de Musset says, what everybody who has read his brother's writings carefully
will feel to be true, that neither in the hero nor any other single personage must we look
for Alfred's entire individuality. In the complexity of his character and emotions, and the
contradictions which they united, are to be found the eidolon of every young man in his collection,
even "the two heroes of Les Caprices de Marianne, Octave and Cœlio," says Paul, "although they
are the antipodes of one another." Neither is it as easy as it would seem on the surface to
trace the thread of any one incident of his life through his writings. Although containing
some irreconcilable passages, the four "Nights" appeared to have been born of the same impulse
and to exact the same dedication: it is undeniably a shock to have their inconsistencies explained
by hearing that while the "Nuits de Mai," "d'Août" and "d'Octobre" refer to his passion for
Madame Sand, the "Nuit de Décembre" and "Lettre à Lamartine," which naturally belong to this
series, were dictated by another attachment and another disappointment. I will not stop to
moralize upon this: the story of De Musset's life is really only the story of his loves. His
brother says that he was always in love with somebody: it was a necessity of his nature and
his genius. Before he was twenty-seven, six different love-affairs are enumerated, without
taking into account numerous affairs of gallantry; nor was the sixth the last. The "Nuit d'Octobre"
was written two years and a half after his return from Italy, and its terrible malediction
is the outbreak of the rankling memory of his wrong and suffering. It was psychologically in
order that while his love (which does not die in an hour, like trust and respect) survived,
it should surround its object with lingering tenderness, but that as it slowly expired indignation,
scorn and the sense of injury should increase: this is their final utterance, followed by pardon,
a vow of forgetfulness and farewell, but not a final farewell. That was spoken years afterward,
in 1841, when, once again seeing by chance the forest of Fontainebleau, and about the same
time casually encountering Madame Sand, he poured forth his "Souvenir," a poem of matchless
sweetness and beauty, vibrating with feeling and most musical in expression--an exquisite combination
of lyric and elegy. In this he calls her

    Ma seule amie à jamais la plus chère.

Ten years after this, in one of the last strains of his unstrung harp, a fragment called "Souvenir
des Alpes," the sad chord is touched once more: up to the end it answered faintly to certain
notes. Long after their rupture and separation he said that he would have given ten years of
his life to marry her had she been free; and it is deplorable that the most fervent and lasting
affection of which he was capable should have been thrown back upon him in such sort.

Of marriage there were several schemes at different times: they fell through because he was
averse to them himself, except one to which he much inclined, the young lady being pretty,
intelligent, charming and the daughter of an old friend; but on the first advances it turned
out that she was engaged to another man. His biographer regrets this deeply, convinced that
such an alliance would have been his brother's salvation; but even if he could have been more
constant to his wife than to his mistresses, the habit of intemperance was too confirmed to
admit much hope of domestic happiness. The same may be opined in regard to the vague hopes
which were destroyed by the death of the young duke of Orleans. When Louis Philippe came to
the throne, De Musset made no attempt to approach the royal family on the pretext of the old
school-friendship: it was the duke himself who renewed it in 1836 on accidentally seeing some
unpublished verses of the poet's on the king's escape from an attempt at assassination. Louis
Philippe himself did not like the sonnet, considering the use of the poetic thou too familiar
a form of address: he did not know who was the author; and when Alfred was presented to him
at a court-ball took him for a cousin who was inspector of the royal forests at Joinville,
and continued to greet him, under this mistake, with a few gracious words two or three times
a year during the rest of his reign, while the poet's name was on the lips and in the heart
of every one else. The duke's favor and friendliness ended only with his sad and sudden death.

Paul de Musset tells us that the years 1837 and 1838 were the happiest in his brother's life.
The love-trouble which had wrung from him the "Nuit de Décembre" was a disappointment, but
not a deception, and the parting had caused equal sorrow on both sides, but no bitterness.
After no long interval appeared "a very young and very pretty person whom he met frequently
in society, of an enthusiastic, passionate nature, independent in her position, and who bought
the poet's books." An acquaintance, a friendship, a correspondence, a serious passion followed,
and became a relation which lasted two years "without quarrel, storm, coolness or subject of
umbrage or jealousy--two years of love without a cloud, of true happiness." Why did it not
last for ever? The biographer does not give the answer. It is hinted in a letter to Alfred's
friend, the duchesse de Castries, dated September, 1840, in his Œuvres posthumes: "I have told
you how about a year ago an absurd passion, totally useless and somewhat ridiculous, made me
break with all my habits. I forsook all my surroundings, my friends of both sexes, the current
in which I was living, and one of the prettiest women in Paris. I did not succeed in my foolish
dream, you must understand; and now I find myself cured, it is true, but high and dry like
a fish in a grain-field." This is probably the clue, and the foolish dream was for a woman
to whom his brother refers as having repelled Alfred's homage with harshness, and having called
forth from him some short and extremely bitter verses beginning "Oui, femme," and another called
"Adieu!" in which there prevails a tone of quiet but deep feeling. This is a sad story: he
apparently united the volatility and vagrancy of fancy, the inconstancy of light shallow natures,
with the ardor and intensity of passion and the capacity for suffering which belong to strong
and steadfast ones. There was a childlike quality in his disposition, which showed itself in
a sort of simplicity and spontaneousness in the midst of a corrupt existence, and still more
in the uncontrollable, absorbing violence of his emotions: they swept over him, momentarily
devastating his present and blotting out the horizon, but unlike the tempests of childhood
their ravages did not disappear when the clouds dispersed and the torrents subsided. The life
of debauchery which had preceded his journey to Italy was replaced, for some years, by a less
excessive degree of dissipation, during which he lived with a fast set, who, however, were
men of talent and accomplishments, the foremost among them being Prince Belgiojoso. The influence
of the two fortunate years, 1837-38, not only the happiest but the most fertile of his short
career, seems to have weakened these associations and led him into calmer paths. He had formed
several friendships with women of a sort which both parties may regard with pride, in particular
with the Princess Belgiojoso, one of the most striking and original figures of our monotonous
time, and Madame Maxime Jaubert, a clever, attractive young woman with a delightful house,
whom he called his Marraine because she had given him a nickname. These women, and others--but
these two above the rest--were sincerely and loyally attached to him with a disinterested regard
which did not spare advice, nor even rebuke, or relax under his loss of health and brilliancy
or neglect of their kindness, which nevertheless he felt and valued. His purest source of pleasure
was in the talent of others, which gave him a generous and sympathetic enjoyment. The appearance
of Pauline Garcia--now Madame Viardot--and Rachel, who came out almost simultaneously at the
age of seventeen, added delight to the two happy years. He has left notices of the first performances
of these artistes, the former in opera, the latter on the stage (for he was musical himself
and a connoisseur) which are excellent criticisms, and have even more interest than when they
appeared, now that the career of one has long been closed and that of the other long completed.
His relations with Rachel lasted for many years, interrupted by the gusts and blasts which
the contact of two such natures inevitably begets. She constantly urged him to write a play
for her, and in the year after her début he wrote a fragment of a drama on the story of Frédegonde,
which she learned by heart and occasionally recited in private; but there were endless delays
and difficulties on both sides, and the rest was not written. After various episodes and passages
between them, De Musset was dining with her one evening when she had become a great lady and
queen of the theatre, and her other guests were all rich men of fashion. One of them admired
an extremely beautiful and costly ring which she wore. It was first passed round the table
from hand to hand, and then she said they might bid for it. One immediately offered five hundred
francs, another fifteen, and the ring went up at once to three thousand: "And you, my poet,
why do not you bid? What will you give?" "I will give you my heart," he replied. "The ring
is yours," cried Rachel, taking it off and throwing it into his plate. After dinner De Musset
tried to restore it to her, but she refused to take it back: he urged and insisted, when she,
suddenly falling on her knee with that sovereign charm of seduction for which she was as renowned
as for her tragic power, entreated him to keep it as a pledge for the piece he was to write
for her. The poet took the ring, and went home excited and wrought up to the resolve that nothing
should interfere with the completion of his task. But it was the old story again--whims and
postponements on Rachel's part, possibly temper and pique on his--until six months afterward,
at the end of an angry conversation, he silently replaced the ring on her hand, and she did
not resist. Four years later the compact was renewed, and although by this time De Musset had
to all intents and purposes ceased to write, he struck off the first act of a play called Faustina,
the scene of which was laid in Venice in the fourteenth century; but he put off finishing it,
and finally let it drop altogether.

