LITTLE BUSYBODIES

The Life of Crickets, Ants, Bees Beetles, and Other Busybodies

by

JEANNETTE MARKS and JULIA MOODY of Mount Holyoke College

Illustrated

Harper & Brothers Publishers New York and London MCMIX

       *       *       *       *       *

STORY-TOLD SCIENCE For Children from Eight to Fourteen Years of Age

Other Books for the Series:

CRUSTY COUSINS: Crabs, Spiders, etc.

SHELL DWELLERS AND URCHINS: Clams, Oysters, Snails, Starfish, Sea Urchins

HATCHING WATER BABIES: Fish and Frogs

BIRD WITS

LITTLE MAMMALS

FLOWERS

A series intended to cover simple types of plant and animal life, arranged in logical order

       *       *       *       *       *

Harper & Brothers, Publishers, N. Y. Copyright, 1909, by Harper & Brothers. All rights reserved.
Published April, 1909.

CONTENTS

CHAPTER                                                       PAGE

       A WORD TO THE CHILDREN AND THE WISE                       v

    I. THE JOURNEY                                               1
   II. RANGELEY VILLAGE                                         11
  III. THE LITTLE ARMY (Locusts and Grasshoppers)               21
   IV. FIDDLERS (Crickets)                                      34
    V. HOW KATY DID (Katydids)                                  43
   VI. FISHING (Dragon-flies)                                   50
  VII. THE SWIMMING-POOL (The May-fly)                          61
 VIII. THE RAINY DAY (Leaf and Tree Hoppers)                    68
   IX. THE PRIZE (Lace-Wing, Ant-Lion, and Caddis-Worm)         77
    X. A NAGGING FAMILY (Flies and Mosquitoes)                  90
   XI. CAMPING OUT (Butterflies and Moths)                     103
  XII. CAMP-IN-THE-CLOUDS (Butterflies and Moths, continued)   114
 XIII. STORM BOUND (Beetles)                                   122
  XIV. A DAY'S HUNTING (Bees)                                  136
   XV. LEAVING CAMP (Wasps)                                    153
  XVI. EYES AND NO EYES (Ants)                                 167

NOTE.--We do not think it practicable to give classifications except as they exist unnamed
in the above titles: (1) straight winged: locusts, grasshoppers, crickets, katydids; (2) tooth-shaped:
dragon-flies; (3) ephemerals: may-flies; (4) half-winged: leaf and tree hoppers; (5) nerve-winged:
lace-wings, ant-lions, and caddis-worms; (6) two-winged: flies and mosquitoes; (7) scaly winged:
butterflies and moths; (8) sheath-winged: beetles; (9) membranous-winged: bees, wasps, and ants.

A WORD TO THE CHILDREN AND THE WISE

We hope that the children who read this book will like the boys and girls who are in it. They
are real, and the good times they have are real, as any boy or girl who has lived out-of-doors
will know. And the stories are true. Peter is not always good. But do you expect a child always
to be good? We do not. Sometimes, too, the frolics turn in to a scramble to catch a dragon-fly
that will not be caught, and there are accidents. Also, Betty and Jack work hard to win a prize
which the guide gives to the child who learns most about ants.

Of course it would be impossible for five children to go in search of locusts, grasshoppers,
crickets, katydids, dragon-flies, May-flies, leaf-hoppers, lace-wings, caddis-worms, butterflies,
beetles, bees, wasps--and so many other six-legged creatures that among them they have wings
and legs enough to fill a new Pandora's box--without having a good deal happen. And a good
deal does happen. It is all true enough, and every word about the six-legged busybodies is
true as true. The other books, too, that come after this in our Story-Told Science Series will
be every word true.

And we who wrote this book? Well, we, too, have been children. We used to climb trees and turn
somersaults; why--But that is another story! And we remember so well what it used to be like
to have to learn dull things we did not wish to know. So we said to ourselves, as we looked
over our spectacles at each other, "No, they sha'n't be told a single uninteresting fact; they
sha'n't be dull, poor dears, as we were so long ago, before we put on spectacles and began
to call ourselves wise."

And so, although we sat down and wrote a book just about long enough for a school-year's work;
although we felt very proud because our stories had more wonderful six-legged creatures than
any book written for children; although we took pains to have in the book only such little
creatures as any one of us could see any day; although we hoped that mothers and teachers would
say, "At last, this is a book the children and I can like and find useful!" or, "There, that
will help as a starting-point to tell about the bees and the flowers!" or, "This story about
the flies will teach the children what it means to be clean!" Although, I say, we hoped all
these things, yet our chief hope was that we might give all sorts of children a good time.

So we put our spectacles on and looked very wise, and took a quantity of ink on our pens and
began to write. And we wrote and wrote and wrote. And part of the time, while one of us was
writing and hoping the stories would be so interesting the children would want to write about
them, too, the other was drawing and labelling each sketch so plainly that any child could
understand it, even if the ears were quite where they could not be expected to be, or there
were more eyes than, seemingly, one creature ought to have, or wings and legs served to make
music, as no sensible child could possibly guess.

And now we can't do better than wish you a good time before we say good-bye. We wish you to
enjoy all the frolics, to feel how jolly it is to be out-of-doors in the woods and fields and
lakes, climbing, canoeing, picnicing, and swimming.

But still more, we hope that you will realize that more wonderful than the most wonderful fairy
story ever told is the marvel of the created life of these little insects; we want you to come
to know something of their joys and troubles; we want you to learn how to be kind to them,
and how they may be useful to you; and we want you to find out for yourselves the places they
take in the great plan of creation.

In other words, we want you to think and feel about the lives of these six-legged busybodies,
and see for yourselves how much even a butterfly can add to the interest and beauty of living.
Does this seem a little bit like a sermon? Well, you see, we forgot we had kept on our spectacles
so long, and somehow spectacles always turn into sermons. Perhaps it is because both begin
with the letter S.

And now this is all of our short word to the wise. We expect to make each one of our books
better than the last, and you can help us to do this by writing any suggestions you may have.
We shall be glad to hear from children, big or little.

J. M. and J. M.

South Hadley, Massachusetts, January 27, 1909.

LITTLE BUSYBODIES

I

THE JOURNEY

"It will be stories all summer, won't it?" said Betty to her mother.

"Yes, dear."

"And hunting, too?" said Jimmie.

"Hunting with your new gun and hunting with your camera."

Jimmie unfastened the case of his new camera and looked in. What a beautiful one it was, and
what pictures he meant to take, and how the camera would impress Ben Gile! Jimmie looked about
proudly. He knew no other boy in that whole great train had a camera like the one his father
had given him.

"Mother, when will it be lunch?" asked Betty.

"Luncheon so soon!"

"I'm as hungry as a bear," declared Jimmie.

"And hear Kitty mewing; she's hungry, too." Betty looked at the big round basket, whose cover
kept restlessly stirring.

"Did you leave something in the baggage-car for Max to eat?" Mrs. Reece asked Jimmie.

"Yes, mum. It's one o'clock; can't we have something now?"

"As late as that! No wonder you chickens are hungry for--"

"Chicken!" squealed Betty.

"And ham sandwiches!" added Jimmie.

"And chocolate cake!"

"And root-beer!"

"And peppermints!"

"Ssh!" said Mrs. Reece, "or every one in the car will know what little piggies you are. Ask
Lizzie for the basket."

Every minute the air was growing cooler. The children could smell the pine woods, and once
in a while the train flashed by a great big sawmill, or a lake set like a sapphire in the deep
green of the forests. And the hills were rolling nearer and nearer in great shadows. The children
ate their luncheon contentedly, looking out of the windows and thinking of the mountains there
would be to climb, the ponds, the streams to fish, the pictures to take, and the stories they
were to hear the summer long.

"Mother," said Betty, eating her second piece of chocolate cake--"mother, what will Ben Gile
tell us this summer?"

"Let me see," said her mother, "perhaps it will be about the little creatures--grasshoppers
and katydids, butterflies and bees."

"Goody!"

"Pooh!" said Jimmie, "I don't see what you want to know of those old things. I'd much rather
hear about porcupines. There isn't anything to say about a grasshopper except that it hops."

"Isn't there, my son? Well, that shows that you don't use your eyes. Suppose some one said
there was nothing to say about you except that you whistle?"

"Well, what is there about an old grasshopper, anyhow?"

"I don't know, but Ben will."

"But tell us something, mum," urged Jimmie, who loved his mother dearly, and was certain she
knew more than anybody else, in part because she had been to college, but chiefly because she
was his mother.

"Let me see," said Mrs. Reece, "I shall have to think about it." Both of the children came
as close to her as they could, while she continued:

"What a strange world it would be if there were no insects in it! We should have no little
crickets chirping in the sunny fields or in the dark corners and cracks of our houses. There
would be no katydids singing all night, no clacking of the locusts in the tall grass along
dusty roads, no drowsy hum of bees. There would be no little ants and big ants digging out
underground tunnels and carrying the grains of sand as far from their doorways as possible.
There would be no brightly colored moths and butterflies flitting from flower to flower. We
should find no sparkling fairy webs spun anew for us every morning."

"But, mother, all these creatures aren't insects," said Jimmie.

"Yes, they are, dear. It is hard to believe that they all belong to the same family called
insecta, but they do."

"Mother, what's that word mean?"

"It doesn't mean anything more than cut up into parts. You see, Betty, all these insect bodies
are made up of separate rings joined nicely together. If you look carefully you will find that
behind the head there is another distinct part. This is called the thorax, which means chest.
Behind that there is a pointed part of the body, which is called the abdomen. Then, if you
look again, you will see that all these little creatures are alike in that they have six jointed
legs."

"And are they all good, like the bee and the butterfly?" asked Betty, who wasn't always a good
little girl herself, and who thought it would be much nicer if insects were naughty sometimes.

"Not all, dear," answered Mrs. Reece; "some do us real service, but others are troublesome;
insects are such hungry little fellows, and they don't have chocolate cake every day to keep
them from getting hungry. They are hungry when they are babies and hungry when they grow up.
Some eat all they can see--like a little boy I know--and some prefer the tender leaves and
twigs. Some care only for the sweet sap flowing into the new leaves and buds. And still others
like best the tender new roots of plants."

