I am now returned to the point from whence I sat out, and rather within the revolution of one
year; which, upon the whole, though I met with many untoward circumstances, has been the most
interesting and entertaining year of my whole life, and will afford me matter of reflection
for the little which remains unfinished of that journey we must all take sooner or later, a
journey from whence no traveller returns.--And having said so much of myself, I am sure you
will be glad to change the subject from man to beast, especially to such a one as I have now
to speak of.

I told you, when I set out, that I had bought a handsome-looking English horse for seven guineas,
but a little touched in his wind; I can now inform you, that when I left this town, he was
rather thin, and had a sore back and shoulder; both which, by care and caution; were soon healed,
and that he is returned fair and fat, and not a hair out of its place, though he drew two grown
persons, two children, (one of thirteen the other ten years old) a very heavy French cabriolet,
and all our baggage, nay, almost all my goods, chattels, and worldly property whatever, outward
and homeward, except between Cette and Barcelona, going, and Lyons and this town returning!
I will point out to you one of his day's work, by which you will be able to judge of his general
power of working: At Perpignan, I had, to save him, hired post-horses to the first town in
Spain, as I thought it might be too much for him to ascend and descend the Pyrenees in one
day; beside sixteen miles to the foot of them, on this side, and three to Jonquire on the other;
but after the horses were put to, the post-master required me to take two men to Boulou, in
order to hold the chaise, and to prevent its overturning in crossing the river near the village.
Such a flagrant attempt to impose, determined me to take neither horses nor men; and at seven
o'clock I set off with Callee (that is my houyhnhnm's name) and arrived in three hours at Boulou,
a paltry village, but in a situation fit for the palace of AUGUSTUS!

So far from wanting men from Perpignan to conduct my chaise over the river, the whole village
were, upon our arrival, in motion after the JOB. We, however, passed it, without any assistance
but our own weight to keep the wheels down, and the horse's strength and sturdiness, to drag
us through it. In about three hours more we passed over the summit of this great chain of the
universe; and in two more, arrived at Jonquire: near which village my horse had a little bait
of fresh mown hay, the first, and last, he eat in that kingdom. And when I tell you that this
faithful, and (for a great part of my journey) only servant I had, never made a faux pas, never
was so tired, but that upon a pinch, he could have gone a league or two farther; nor ever was
ill, lame, physicked, or bled, since he was mine; you will agree, that either he is an uncommon
good horse, or that his master is a good groom! Indeed I will say that, however fatigued, wet,
hundry, or droughty I was, I never partook of any refreshment till my horse had every comfort
the inn could afford. I carried a wooden bowl to give him water, and never passed a brook without
asking him to drink.--And, as he has been my faithful servant, I am now his; for he lives under
the same roof with me, and does nothing but eat, drink, and sleep.--As he never sees me nor
hears my voice, without taking some affectionate notice of me, I ventured to ask him tenderly,
whether he thought he should be able to draw two of the same party next year to Rome? No tongue
could more plainly express his willingness! he answered me, in French, indeed, we-we-we-we-we,
said he; so perhaps he might not be sincere, tho' he never yet deceived me. If, however, he
should not go, or should out-live me, which, is very probable, my dying request to you will
be, to procure him a peaceful walk for the remainder of his days, within the park-walls of
some humane private gentleman; though I flatter myself the following petition will save you
that trouble, and me the concern of leaving him without that comfort which his faithful services
merit.

To SIR JAMES TYLNEY LONG, Bart.

A Faithful Servant's humble Petition,

SHEWETH,

That your petitioner entered into the service of his present master, at an advanced age, and
at a time too, that he laboured under a pulmonic disorder, deemed incurable; yet by gentle
exercise, wholesome food, and kind usage, he has been enabled to accompany his master from
Calais to Artois. Cambray, Rheims, St. Dezier, Dijon, Challons, Macon, Lyons, Pont St. Esprit,
Pont du Garde, Nismes, Montpellier, Cette, Narbonne, Perpignan the Pyrenees Barcelona, Montserrat,
Arles, Marseilles, Toulouse, Avignon, Aix, Valence, Paris, and back to Calais, in the course
of one year: And that your petitioner has acquitted himself so much to his master's satisfaction,
that he has promised to take him next year to Rome; and upon his return, to get him a sine-cure
place for the remainder of his days; and, as your petitioner can produce a certificate of his
honesty, sobriety, steadiness, and obedience to his master; and wishes to throw himself under
the protection of a man of fortune, honour and humanity, he is encouraged by his said master
to make this his humble prayer to you, who says that to above three hundred letters he has
lately written, to ask a small boon for himself, he did not receive above three answers that
gave him the pleasure your's did though he had twenty times better pretensions to an hundred
and fifty. And as your petitioner has seen a great deal of the world, as well as his master,
and has always observed, that such men who are kind to their fellow-creatures, are kind also
to brutes; permit an humble brute to throw himself at your feet, and to ask upon his return
from Rome a lean-to shed, under your park-wall, that he may end his days in his native country,
and afford a repas, at his death, to the dogs of a Man who feeds the poor, cloaths the naked,
and who knows how to make use of the noblest privilege which a large fortune can bestow,--that
of softening the calamities of mankind, and making glad the hearts of those who are oppressed
with misfortunes.--Your petitioner, therefore, who has never, been upon his knees before to
any man living, humbly prays that he may be admitted within your park-pail, and that he may
partake of that bounty which you bestow in common to your own servants, who, by age or misfortunes
are past their labour; in which request your petitioner's master impowers him to use his name
and joint prayer with

  CALLEE.

I do hereby certify, that nothing is advanced in the above petition, but what is strictly true,
and that if the petitioner had been able to express himself properly, his merits and good qualities
would have appeared to much greater advantage, as well as his services; as he has omitted many
towns he attended his master to, besides a variety of smaller journies; that he is cautious,
wary, spirited, diligent, faithful, and honest; that he is not nice, but eats, with appetite,
and good temper, whatever is set before him; and that he is in all respects worthy of that
asylum he asks, and which his master laments more on his account than his own, that he cannot
give him.

                    PHILIP THICKNESSE.

  Calais, the 4th of Nov.
    1776.

LETTER LV.

CALAIS.

On our way here, we spent two or three days at Chantilly, one, of fifty Chatteaus belonging
to the PRINCE OF CONDE: for, though we had visited this delightful place, two or three times,
some years ago, yet, beside its natural beauties, there is always something new. One spot we
found particularly pleasing, nay flattering to an Englishman; it is called l'Isle d'Amour,
in which there are some thatched cottages, a water-mill, a garden, shrubbery, &c. in the English
taste, and the whole is, in every respect, well executed. The dairy is neat, and the milkmaid
not ugly, who has her little villa, as well as the miller. There is also a tea-house, a billiard-room,
an eating-room, and some other little buildings, all externally in the English village stile,
which give the lawn, and serpentine walks that surround them, a very pastoral appearance. The
eating-room is particularly well fancied, being covered within, and so painted as to produce
a good idea of a close arbor; the several windows, which are pierced through the sides, have
such forms, as the fantastic turn of the bodies of the painted trees admit of; and the building
is in a manner surrounded with natural trees; the room, when illuminated for the Prince's supper,
has not only a very pleasing effect, but is a well executed deception, for the real trees falling
into perspective with those which are painted, through the variety of odd-shaped windows, has
a very natural, and consequently a very pleasing effect; but what adds greatly to the deception,
is, that at each corner of the room the floor is opened, and lumps of earth thrown up, which
bear, in full perfection, a great variety of flowers and flowering shrubs. We had the honour
to be admitted while the Prince of Conde, the Duke and Duchess of Bourbon, the Princess of
Monaco, and two or three other ladies and gentlemen were at supper; a circumstance which became
rather painful to us, as it seemed to occasion some to the company, and particularly to the
Prince, who inquired who we were, and took pains to shew every sort of politeness he could
to strangers he knew nothing of. The supper was elegantly served on plate; but there seemed
to me too many servants round the table. The conversation was very little, and very reserved.
I do not recollect that I saw scarce a smile during the whole time of supper.

The Prince is a sprightly, agreeable man, something in person like Lord Barrington; and the
Duke of Bourbon so like his father, that it was difficult to know the son from the father.

The Duchess of Bourbon is young, handsome, and a most accomplished lady.

During the supper, a good band of music played; but it was all wind instruments. Mr. Lejeune,
the first bassoon, is a most capital performer indeed.

After the dessert had been served up about ten minutes, the Princess of Monaco rose from the
table, as did all the company, and suddenly turning from it, each lady and gentleman's servant
held them a water glass, which they used with great delicacy, and then retired.

The Princess of Monaco is separated from the Prince her husband; yet she has beauty enough
for any Prince in Europe, and brought fortune enough for two or three.

The Duchess of Bourbon had rather a low head-dress, and without any feather, or, that I could
perceive, rouge; the Princess of Monaco's head-dress was equally plain; the two other ladies,
whose rank I do not recollect, wore black caps, and hats high dressed. There were eight persons
sat down to table, and I think, about twenty-five servants, in and out of livery, attended.

The next day, we were admitted to see the Prince's cabinet of natural and artificial curiosities;
and as I intimated my design of publishing some account of my journey, the Prince was pleased
to allow me as much time as I chose, to examine his very large and valuable collection; among
which is a case of gold medallions,(72) of the Kings of France, in succession, a great variety
of birds and beasts, ores, minerals, petrifactions, gems, cameos, &c. There is also a curious
cabinet, lately presented to the Prince by the King of Denmark; and near it stood a most striking
representation, in wax, of a present said to be served up to a late unfortunate Queen; it is
the head and right hand of Count Struensee, as they were taken off after the execution; the
head and hand lie upon a silver dish, with the blood and blood vessels too, well executed;
never surely was any thing so sadly, yet so finely done. I defy the nicest eye, however near,
to distinguish it (suppose the head laid upon a pillow in a bed) from nature; nor must Mrs.
Wright, or any of the workers in wax I have ever yet seen, pretend to a tythe of the perfection
in that art, with the man who made this head.--Sad as the subject is, I could not withstand
the temptation of asking permission to take a copy of it; and fortunately, I found the man
who made it was then at Paris,--nor has he executed his work for me less perfect than that
he made for the Prince.--I have been thus particular in mentioning this piece of art, because,
of the kind, I will venture to say, it is not only deadly fine, but one of the most perfect
deceptions ever seen.

When you, or any of the ladies and gentlemen who have honoured this poor performance of mine
with their names, or their family or friends, pass this way, I shall be happy to embrace that
occasion, to shew, that I have not said more of this inimitable piece of art, than it merits;
nor do I speak thus positively from my own judgment, but have the concurrent opinion of many
men of unquestionable judgment, that it is a master-piece of art; and among the rest, our worthy
and valuable friend Mr. Sharp, of the Old Jewry.

Before we left Chantilly, we had a little concert, to which my train added one performer; and
as it was the only string instrument, it was no small addition.

The day we left this charming place, we found the Prince and all his company under tents and
pavilions on the road-side, from whence they were preparing to follow the hounds.

At Amiens, there is in the Hotel de Ville, a little antique god in bronze, which was found,
about four years ago, near a Roman urn, in the earth, which is very well worthy of the notice
of a connoisseur; but it is such as cannot decently be described; the person in whose custody
it is, permitted me to take an impression from it in wax; but I am not quite so good a hand
at waxwork as the artist mentioned above, and yet my little houshold-god has some merit, a
merit too that was not discovered till three months after it had been fixed in the Hotel de
Ville; and the discovery was made by a female, not a male, connoisseur.

It is said, that a Hottentot cannot be so civilized, but that he has always a hankering after
his savage friends, and dried chitterlins; and, that gypsies prefer their roving life, to any
other, a circumstance that once did, but now no longer surprizes me; for I feel such a desire
to wander again, that I am impatient till the winter is past, when I intend to visit Geneva,
and make the tour of Italy; and if you can find me cut a sensible valetudinarian or two, of
either sex, or any age, who will travel as we do, to see what is to be seen, to make a little
stay, where the place, or the people invite us to do so, who can dine on a cold partridge,
in a hot day, under a shady tree; and travel in a landau and one, we will keep them a table
d'hote, that shall be more pleasant than expensive, and which will produce more health and
spirits, than half the drugs of Apothecary's Hall.

If God delights so much in variety, as all things animate and inanimate sufficiently prove,
no wonder that man should do so too: and I have now been so accustomed to move, though slowly,
that I intend to creep on to my journey's end, by which means I may live to have been an inhabitant
of every town almost in Europe, and die, as I have lately (and wish I had always) lived, a
free citizen of the whole world, slave to no sect, nor subject to any King. Yet, I would not
be considered as one wishing to promote that disposition in others; for I must confess, that
it is in England alone, where an innocent and virtuous man can sit down and enjoy the blessings
of liberty and his own chearful hearth, in full confidence that no earthly power can disturb
it; and the best reason which can be offered in favour of Englishmen visiting other kingdoms,
is, to enable them, upon their return, to know how to enjoy the inestimable blessings of their own.

LETTER LVI.

For what should I cross the streight which divides us, though it were but half seven leagues?
we should only meet to part again, and purchase pleasure, as most pleasures are purchased,
too dearly; I have dropt some heavy tears, (ideally at least) over poor BUCKLE'S[J] grave,
and it is all one to a man, now with GOD! on what King's soil such a tribute as that is paid:
had some men of all nations known the goodness of his heart as we did, some men of all nations
would grieve as we do. When I frequented Morgan's[K] I used him as a touch-stone, to try the
hearts of other men upon; for, as he was not rich, he was out of the walk of knaves and flatterers,
and such men, who were moot prejudiced in his favour at first sight, and coveted not his company
after a little acquaintance, I always avoided as beings made of base metal. It was for this
reason I despised that ****** ****, (you know who I mean) for you too have seen him snarl,
and bite, and play the dog, even to BUCKLE!

   [J] WILLIAM BUCKLE, Esq.

   [K] MORGAN'S Coffee-House, Grove, BATH.

Our Sunday night's tea club, round his chearful hearth, is now for ever dissolved, and SHARPE
and RYE have administered their last friendly offices with a potion of sorrow.

Were I the hermit of St. Catharine, I would chissel his name as deeply into one of my pine-heads,
as his virtues are impressed on my memory. Though I have lost his guinea, I will not lose his
name; he looked down with pity upon me when here; who can say he may not do so still? I should
be an infidel, did not a few such men as he keep me back.

And now, my dear Sir, after the many trifling subjects in this very long correspondence with
you, I will avail myself of this good one, to close it, on the noblest work of GOD, AN HONEST
MAN. The loss of such a friend, is sufficient to induce one to lay aside all pursuits, but
that of following his example, and to prepare to follow him.

If you should ever follow me here, I flatter myself you will find, that I have, to the best
of my poor abilities, made such a sketch of men and things on this side of the water, that
you will be able to discover some likeness to the originals. A bad painter often hits the general
features, though he fall ever so short of the graces of Titian, or the Morbidezza of Guido.
I am sure, therefore, you and every man of candour, will make allowances for the many inaccuracies,
defects, &c. which I am sensible these letters abound with, tho' I am incapable of correcting
them. My journey, you know was not made, as most travellers' are, to indulge in luxury, or
in pursuit of pleasures, but to soften sorrow, and to recover from a blow, which came from
a mighty hand indeed; but a HAND still MORE MIGHTY, has enabled me to resist it, and to return
in health, spirits, and with that peace of mind which no earthly power can despoil me of, and
with that friendship and regard for you, which will only cease, when I cease to be

                    PHILIP THICKNESSE.

  Calais, Nov. 4,
    1776.

P.S. I found Berwick's regiment on duty in this town: it is commanded by Mons. le Duc de Fitz-James,
and a number of Irish gentlemen, my countrymen, (for so I will call them.) You may easily imagine,
that men who possess the natural hospitality of their own country, with the politeness and
good-breeding of this, must be very agreeable acquaintance in general: But I am bound to go
farther, and to say, that I am endeared to them by marks of true friendship. The King of France,
nor any Prince in Europe, cannot boast of troops better disciplined; nor is the King insensible
of their merit, for I have lately seen a letter written by the King's command from Comte de
St. Germain, addressed to the officers of one of these corps, whereby it appears, that the
King is truly sensible of their distinguished merit; for braver men there are not in any service:--What
an acquisition to France! what a loss to Britain!

As the Marquis of Grimaldi is retired from his public character, I am tempted to send you a
specimen of his private one, which flattering as it is to me, and honourable to himself, I
should have withheld, had his Excellency continued first minister of Spain; by which you will
see, that while my own countrymen united to set me in a suspicious light, (though they thought
otherwise) the ministers politeness and humanity made them tremble at the duplicity of their
conduct; and had I been disposed to have acted the same sinister part they did, some of them
might have been reminded of an old Spanish proverb,

  "A las màlas lénguas tigéras"

    "Muy S^or. mio. Por la carta de I^o del corr^te. veo su
    feliz llegada a esta ciudad, en donde habia tomado una casa, y por
    las cartas que me incluye, y debuelbo, reconosco los terminos
    honrados y recomendables con que ha efectuado su salida de
    Inglaterra, cosa que yo nunca podria dudar.

    "Deseo que a V.S. le va' ya muy bien en este Reyno, y espero que me
   avifara el tiempo que se propusiere detener en Barcelona, y tambien
   quando se verificara su yda a Valencia: cuyo Pais se ha creydo el mas
   propio para su residencia estable, por la suavidad del clima y demas
   circunstantias.--V.S. me hallara pronto a complacerle y sevirle en lo
   que se le ofrezca: que es quendo en el dia puedo decirle,
   referiendome ademas a mis cartas precedentes communicadas por medio
   de ... Dios quiere a V.S. M^o c^o d^o S^r el 14 Nov^re. de 1775.

        "B L.M. en. S.
           Su mayor fer^or.
         El Marq^s de GRIMALDI,
  A Don Felipe Thickness."

A Madame THICKNESSE.

Voila, Madame, quelques amusemens de ma plume, vous avez paru les desirer, mon empressement
a vous obeir sera le merite de ces legeres productions; la premiere a eu assez de succes en
France, je doute qu'elle puisse en avoir un pareil en Angleterre, parce que le mot n'a peut-etre
pas la meme signification ce que nous appellons Grelot est une petite cochette fermee que l'on
attache aux hochets des enfans pour les amuser; dans le sens metaphysique on en fait un des
attributs de la folie: Ice je l'employe comme embleme de gaiete et d'enfance. Le Pritems est
une Epitre ecrite de la campagne a un de mes amis; j'etois sous le charme de la creation, pour
ainsi dire; les vers en font d'une mesuretres difficile.

La description de Courcelles est celle d'une terre qu'avoit ma mere, et ou j'ai passe toute
ma jeunesse; enchantee de son paysage, et de la vie champetre que j'aime passion, je l'adressois
a un honnete homme de Rheims que j'appellois par plaisanterie mon Papa: ce que j'ai de meilleur
dans mon porte-feuille, ce sont des chansons pour mon mari; comme je l'aime parfaitement mon
coeur m'a servi de muse: mais cette tendresse toujours si delicieuse aux interesses ne peut
plaire a ceux qui ne le sont pas. Quand j'auri l'honneur de vous revoir, Madame, je vous communiquerai
mon recueil, et vous jugerez. Recevez les hommages respectueux de mon mari, et daignezfaire
agreér nos voeux a Mons. Tiennerse; je n'ai point encore reçu les jolies poches, je pars demain
pour la campagne, et j'y resterai quinze jours; nous avons des chaleurs cruelles, Messrs. les
Anglois qui sont ici en souffrent beaucoup, j'ai l'honneur d'etre avec le plus inviolable attachement,

  Madame,
    Votre tres humble
      et tres obeissante servante,
          De Courcelles Desjardins.
  28 Juillet, 1776.

Epitre au Grelot.

    De la folie aimable lot
    Don plus brillant que la richesse,
    Et que je nommerai sagesse
    Si je ne craignois le fagot,
    C'est toi que je chante ô Grelot!
    Hochet heureux de tous les ages
    L'homme est à toi dès le maillot,
    Mais dans tes nombreux appanages
    Jamais tu ne comptas le sot:
    De tes sons mitigés le sage
    En tapinois se rejouït
    Tandis que l'insensé jouït
    Du plaisir de faire tapage.
    Plus envié que dédaigné
    Par cette espece atrabilaire
    Qui pense qu'un air refrogné
    La met au dessus du vulgaire,
    La privation de tes bienfaits
    Seule fait naître sa satyre;
    Charmante idole du François
    Chez lui réside ton empire:
    Tes détracteurs font les pedans,
    Les avares et les amans
    De cette gloire destructive
    Qui peuple l'infernale rive,
    Et remplit l'univers d'excès.
    L'ambitieux dans son délire
    N'eprouve que de noirs accès,
    Le genre-humain seroit en paix,
    Si les conquérans savoient rire.
    Contre ce principe évident
    C'est en vain qu'un censeur declame,
    Le mal ne se fait en riant.
    Si de toi provient l'epigrame,
    Son tour heureux ne'est que plaisant
    Et ne nuit jamais qu'au méchant
    Que sa conscience décèle.
    Nomme t-on la rose cruelle
    Lorsqu'un mal-adroit la cueillant
    Se blesse lui-même au tranchant
    De l'epine qu'avec prudence
    Nature fit pour sa défense.
    Tes simples et faciles jeux
    Prolongent dit-on notre enfance
    Censeur, que te faut-il de mieux!
    Des abus, le plus dangereux,
    Le plus voisin de la démence
    Est de donner trop d'importance
    A ces chiméres dont les cieux
    Ont composé notre existence
    Notre devoir est d'être heureux
    A moins de frais, à moins de voeux
    De l'homme est toute la science.
    Par tes sons toujours enchanteurs
    Tu fais fuir la froide vieillesse
    Ou plutôt la couvrant de fleurs
    Tu lui rends l'air de la jeunesse.
    Du temps tu trompes la lenteur,
    Par toi chaque heure est une fête
    Démocrite fut ton Docteur
    Anacréon fut ton Prophête;
    Tous deux pour sages reconnus,
    L'un riant des humains abus
    Te fit sonner dans sa retraite
    L'autre chantant à la guingette
    Te donna pour pomme à Venus
    Après eux ma simple musette
    T'offre ses accens ingénus
    Charmant Grelot, sur ta clochette
    Je veux moduler tous mes vers,
    Sois toujours la douce amusette
    Source de mes plaisirs divers
    Heureux qui te garde en cachette
    Et se passe l'univers.

Le Printems.

Epitre à Mons. D----

    Déjà dans la plaine
    On ressent l'haleine
    Du léger Zephir;
    Déja la nature
    Sourit au plaisir,
    La jeune verdure
    A l'eclat du jour
    Oppose la teinte
    Que cherit l'amour
    Fuyant la contrainte,
    Au pied des ormeaux;
    Ma muse naïve
    Reprend ses pipeaux;
    Sur la verte rive
    Aux tendres echos
    Elle dit ces mots.

      Volupté sure
    Bien sans pareil!
    O doux réveil
    De la nature!
    Que l'ame pure
    Dans nos guérets
    Avec yvresse
    Voit tes attraits;
    De la tendresse
    Et de la paix
    Les doux bienfaits
    Sur toute espéce
    Vont s'epandant,
    Et sont l'aimant
    Dont la magie
    Enchaîne et lie
    Tout l'univers
    L'homme pervers
    Dans sa malice
    Ferme son coeur
    A ces delices,
    Et de l'erreur
    Des goûts factices
    Fait son bonheur
    La noire envie
    Fille d'orgueil,
    Chaque furie
    Jusqu'au circueil,
    Tisse sa vie.
    Les vains désirs
    Les vrais plaisirs
    Sont antipodes;
    A ces pagodes
    Culte se rend,
    L'oeil s'y méprend
    Et perd de vuë
    Felicité,
    La Déité
    La plus couruë
    La moins connuë
    Simple réduit
    Et solitaire
    Jadis construit
    Par le mystére
    Est aujourd'hui
    Sa residencei
    La bienveillance.
    Au front serein
    De la déesse
    Est la Prêtresse;
    Les ris badins
    Sont sacristains,
    Joyeux fidelles,
    De fleurs nouvelles
    Offrent les dons.
    Tendres chansons
    Tribut du Zele,
    Jointes au sons
    De Philoméle,
    De son autel
    Sont le rituel
    Dans son empire
    Telle est la loi,
    "Aimer et rire
    De bonne foy."
    Cet Evangile
    Peu difficile
    Du vrai bonheur
    Seroit auteur
    Si pour apôtre
    Il vous avoit;
    En vain tout autre
    Le prêcheroit.
    La colonie
    Du double mont
    Du vraie génie
    Vous a fait don,
    Sans nul caprice
    Entrez en lice,
    Et de Passif
    Venant actif
    Pour la Déesse
    Enchanteresse
    Qui dans ces lieux
    Nous rend heureux
    Donnez moi rose
    Nouvelle éclose:
    Du doux Printems
    Hâtez le tems
    Il etincelle
    En vos écrits,
    Qu'il renouvelle
    Mes Esprits.
    Adieu beau Sire,
    Pour ce délire
    Le sentiment
    Est mon excuse.
    S'il vous amuse
    Un seul moment,
    Et vous rapelle
    Un coeur fidelle
    Depuis cent ans,
    Comme le vôtre
    En tous les tems
    N'ai désir autre.

FABLE

Les Aquilons et l'Oranger.

    De fougeux Aquilons une troupe emportée
    Contre un noble Oranger éxhaloit ses fureurs
    Ils soufflerent en vain, leur rage mutinée
    De l'arbre aux fruits dorés n'ôta que quelques fleurs.

MADRIGAL

    Du tumulte, du bruit, des vaines passions
    Fuyons l'eclat trompeur: à leurs impressions
    Préférons les douceurs de ce sejour paisible,
    Disoit un jour Ariste à la tendre Délos.
    Soit, repart celle-ci; mais las! ce doux repos
    N'est que le pis-aller d'une ame trop sensible.

QUATRAIN

    Telle que ce ruisseau qui promene son onde
    Dans des lieux ecartés loin du bruit et du monde
    Je veux pour peu d'amis éxister desormais
    C'est loin des faux plaisirs que l'on trouve les vrais.

REVERIE SUR UNE LECTURE.

    Aux froids climats de l'ourse, et dans ceux du midi,
    L'homme toujours le même est vain, foible, et crédule,
    Sa devise est partout Sottise et Ridicule.
    Le célébre Chinois, le François étourdi
    De la raison encore n'ont que le crepuscule
    Jadis au seul hazard donnant tout jugement,
    Par les effets cuisans du fer rougi qui brule
    On croyoit discerner le foible et l'innocent;
    A Siam aujourd'hui pareille erreur circule,
    Et l'on voit même esprit sous une autre formule:
    Quand quelque fait obscur tient le juge en suspens
    On fait aux yeux de tous à chaque contendant
    D'Esculape avaler purgative pillule,
    Celui dont l'estomac répugne à pareil mets
    Est réputé coupable et paye tous les frais.
    Du pauvre genre-humain telles sont les annales:
    Rome porta le deuil de l'honneur des vestales,
    Du Saint Pere à présent, elle baise l'ergot:
    Plus gais, non plus sensés dans ce siécle falot
    Nous choisissons au moins l'erreur la plus jolie:
    De l'inquisition, le bal, la comédie
    Remplacent parmi nous le terrible fagot;
    Notre légéreté détruit la barbarie
    Mais nous n'avons encore que changé de folie.

ENVOI A MON MARI.

    Tandis, mon cher, que tes travaux
    Me procurent ce doux repos.
    Et cette heureuse insouciance
    But incertain de l'opulence;
    Mon ame l'abeille imitant
    Aux pays d'esprit élancée
    Cueille les fleurs de la pensée
    Et les remet aux sentiment.
    Mais helas! dans ce vaste champ
    En vain je cherche la sagesse,
    Près de moi certain Dieu fripon
    Me fait quitter l'école de Zenon
    Pour le charme de la tendresse;
    "L'homme est crée pour être bon
    Et non savant, dit il, qu'il aime,
    Du bonheur c'est le vrai systême"
    Je sens, ma foi, qu'il a raison.

DESCRIPTION

De la terre dans laquelle j'habitois, adressée à un homme très respectable que j'appellois
mon Papa.

Que vous êtes aimable, mon cher Papa, de me demander une description de ma solitude. Votre
imagination est gênée de ne pouvoir se la peindre. Vous voulez faire de Courcelles une seconde
étoile du matin, et y lier avec moi un de ces commerces d'ames réservés aux favoris de Brama.
Votre idée ne me perdra plus de vue, j'en ferai mon génie tutélaire. Je croirai à chaque instant
sentir sa présence, ah! elle ne peut trop tôt arriver, montrons lui donc le chemin.

    Quittant votre cité Rhémoise,
    Ville si fertil en bons Vins,
    En gras moutons, en bons humains,
    Après huit fois trois mille toises
    Toujours suivant le grand chemin,
    On découvre enfin le village
    Où se trouve notre hermitage.
    Là rien aux yeux du voyageur
    Ne presente objet de surprise,
    Petit ruisseau, des maisons, une Eglise
    Tout à côté la hutte du Pasteur;
    Car ces Messieurs pour quelques Patenôtres.
    Pour un surplis, pour un vêtement noir
    En ce monde un peu plus qu'en l'autre
    Ont droit près du bon dieu d'établir leur manoir.

Ce début n'est pas fort seduisant; aussi ne vous ai-je rien promis de merveilleux. Je pourrois
cependant pour embellir ma narration me perdre dans de brillantes descriptions, et commencer
par celle de notre clocher; mais malheureusement nous n'en avons point; car je ne crois pas
que l'on puisse appeller de ce nom l'endroit presque souterrain où logent trois mauvaises cloches.
Elles m'étourdissent par fois au point que sans leur baptême, je les enverrois aux enfers sonner
les diners de Pluton et de Proserpine.

On apperçoit près de l'Eglise, entre elle et le curé, une petite fenêtre grillée, ceci est
une vraie curiosité; c'est un sépulcre bâti par Saladin d'Anglure, ancien Seigneur de Courcelles
il vivoit du tems des croisades, et donna comme les autres dans la manie du siécle. Il ne fut
pas plus heureux que ses confreres. Son sort fut d'être prisonnier du vaillant Saladin dont
il conserva le surnom. Sa captivité l'ennuyant, il fit voeu, si elle finissoit bientôt, de
bàtir dans sa Seigneurie un sépulcre, et un calvaire à même distance l'un de l'autre qu'ils
le sont à Jérusalum. C'est aussi ce qu'il fit.

    Quand par une aventure heureuse,
    Des fers du Vaillant Saladin
    Il revint chez lui sauf et sain;
    Mais la chronique scandaleuse
    Qui daube toujours le prochain,
    Et ne se repâit que de blame
    Pretend que trop tôt pour Madame,
    Et trop tard pour le Pelerin
    Dans son Châtel il s'en revint.
    Ce fut, dit on, le lendemain,
    La veille, ou le jour que la Dame,
    Croyant son mari très benin
    Parti pour la gloire éternelle
    Venoit de contracter une hymenée nouvelle.

La tradition étoit en balance sur ces trois dates; mais la malignité humaine a donné la préférence
à la derniére, ensorte qu'il paroit trés sur que l'Epoux n'arriva que le lendemain.

    Quel affront pour un chef couronné de lauriers!
    Tel est pourtant le sort des plus fameux guerriers;
    Ceux d'aujourd'hui n'en font que rire
    Mais ceux du tems passé mettoient la chose au pis,
    Ils n'avoient pas l'esprit de dire
    Nous sommes quitte, et bons amis.

Pendant que vous êtes en train de visiter nos antiquités courcelloises, il me prend envie de
vous faire entrer dans notre réduit.

    Quoique du titre de château,
    Pompeusement on le decore,
    Ne vous figurez pas qu'il soit vaste ni beau.
    Tel que ces Grands que l'on honore
    Pour les vertus de leurs ayeux
    Pour tout mérite il n'a comme eux
    Qu'un nom qui se conserve encore.

