Lady Darcy pointed to it in silence--her eyes filling with tears, as they invariably did on
any reference to Rosalind's accident, and Peggy's cheeks flushed with pleasure.

"I can't thank you!  I really can't," she said.  "It is too lovely.  You couldn't possibly
have given me anything I liked better.  I have a predilection for jewellery, and the little
locket is too sweet, dangling on that chain!  I do love to have something that waggles!"  She
held up her arm as she spoke, shaking the locket to and fro with a childlike enjoyment, while
the two ladies watched her with tender amusement.  Lord Darcy had not spoken since his first
greeting, but now he came forward, and linking his arm in Peggy's led her to the farther end
of the room.

"I have no present for you, my dear--I could not think of one that was good enough--but yesterday
I really think I hit on something that would please you.  Robert told us how keenly you were
feeling your brother's disappointment, and that he was undecided what to try next.  Now, I
believe I can help him there.  I have influence in the Foreign Office, and can ensure him an
opening when he is ready for it, if your father agrees that it is desirable.  Would that please
you, Peggy?  If I can help your brother, will it go some little way towards paying the debt
I owe you?"

"Oh-h!" cried Peggy rapturously.  "Oh!"  She clasped Lord Darcy's hands in her own and gazed
at him with dilated eyes.  "Can you do it?  Will you do it?  There is nothing in all the world
I should like so much. Help Arthur--give him a good chance--and I shall bless you for ever
and ever!  I could never thank you enough--"

"Well, well, I will write to your father and see what he has to say.  I can promise the lad
a start at least, and after that his future will be in his own hands, where I think we may
safely leave it.  Master Arthur is one of the fortunate being's who has an `open sesame' to
all hearts. Mr Asplin assures me that he is as good at work as at play; I have not seen that
side of his character, but he has always left a most pleasing impression on my mind, most pleasing."
The old lord smiled to himself, and his eyes took a dreamy expression, as if he were recalling
to memory the handsome face and strong manly presence of the young fellow of whom he was speaking.
"He has been a favourite at our house for some years now, and I shall be glad to do him a service;
but remember, Peggy, that when I propose this help, it is, in the first instance at least,
for your sake, not his.  I tell you this because I think it will give you pleasure to feel
that you have been the means of helping your brother. Talk it over with him some time when
you are alone together, and then he can come up and see me.  To-day we must leave business
alone.  Here they come!  I thought they would not be long after us--"

Even as he spoke voices sounded from the hall, there was a clatter of feet over the tiled flooring,
and Mellicent dashed into the room.

"P-P-P-Postman!" she stammered breathlessly.  "He is coming!  Round the corner!  Heaps of letters!
Piles of parcels!  A hand-cart, and a boy to help him!  Here in five minutes!  Oh! oh! oh!"
She went rushing back to the door, and Rosalind came forward, looking almost her old beautiful
self, with her cheeks flushed by the cold air, and the fur collar of her jacket turned up so
as to hide the scarred cheek.

"Merry Christmas, Rosalind!  How--how nice you look!" cried Peggy, looking up and down the
dainty figure with more pleasure in the sight than she could have believed possible a few weeks
before.  After being accustomed for four long weeks to gaze at those perfectly cut features,
Esther's long chin and Mellicent's retrousse nose had been quite a trial to her artistic sensibilities
on her return to the vicarage.  It was like having a masterpiece taken down from the walls
and replaced by an inferior engraving.  She gave a sigh of satisfaction as she looked once
more at Rosalind's face.

"Mewwy Chwistmas, Peggy!  I've missed you fwightfully.  I've not been to church, but I dwove
down to meet the others, and came to see you.  I had to see you on Chwistmas Day.  I've had
lovely pwesents, and there are more to come.  Mother has given you the bwacelet, I see.  Is
it what you like?"

"My dear, I love it.  I'm fearfully addicted to jewellery.  I had to put it on at once, and
it looks quite elegant on top of the bandages!  I'm inexpressibly obliged.  I've got heaps
of things--books, scent, glove-box, writing-case, a big box coming from India, and--don't tell
her--an apron from Mellicent!  The most awful thing.  I can't think where she found it.  Yellow
cloth with dog-roses worked in filoselle! Imagine me in a yellow apron with spotty roses around
the brim!"

"He! he!  I can't!  I weally can't.  It's too widiculous!" protested Rosalind.  "She sent me
a twine bag made of netted cotton.  It's awfully useful if you use twine, but I never do. 
Don't say I said so.  Who got the night-dwess bag with the two shades of blue that didn't match?"

"Esther!  You should have seen her face!" whispered Peggy roguishly, and the girls went into
peals of laughter, which brought Robert hurrying across the room to join them.

"Now then, Rosalind; when you have quite done, I should like to speak to Peggy.  The compliments
of the season to you, Mariquita; I hope I see you well."

Peggy pursed up her lips, and looked him up and down with her dancing hazel eyes.

"Most noble sir, the heavens rain blessings on you--Oh, my goodness, there's the postman!"
she said all in one breath; and the partners darted forward side by side towards the front
door, where the old postman was already standing, beaming all over his weatherbeaten face,
as he began turning out the letters and calling out the names on the envelopes.

"Asplin, Asplin, Saville, Asplin, Saville, Saville, Miss Peggy Saville, Miss Mellercent Asplin,
Miss Saville, Miss M. Saville, Miss Peggy Saville."

So the list ran on, with such a constant repetition of the same name that Max exclaimed in
disgust, "Who is this Miss Peggy Saville that we hear so much about?  She's a greedy thing,
whoever she may be;" and Mellicent whined out, "I wish I had been at a boarding-school!  I
wish my relatives lived abroad.  There will be none left for me by the time she has finished."
Then Arthur thrust forward his mischievous face, and put in a stern inquiry--

"Forbes!  Where's that registered letter?  That letter with the hundred-pound note.  Don't
say you haven't got it, for I know better. Hand it over now, without any more bother."

The old postman gave a chuckle of amusement, for this was a standing joke renewed every Christmas
that Arthur had spent at the vicarage.

"'Tasn't come ter-day, Muster Saville.  Missed the post.  'Twill be coming ter-morrer morning
certain!"

"Forbes!" croaked Arthur solemnly.  "Reflect!  You have a wife and children.  This is a serious
business.  It's ruin, Forbes, that's what it is.  R-u-i-n, my friend!  Be advised by me, and
give it up.  The hundred pounds is not worth it, and besides I need it badly.  Don't deprive
a man of his inheritance!"

"Bless yer rart, I'd bring it yer with pleasure rif I could!  Nobody'd bring it quicker ran
I would!" cried Forbes, who like everyone else adored the handsome young fellow who was always
ready with a joke and a kindly word.  "It's comin' for the Noo Year, sir.  You mark my words.
There's a deal of luck waitin' for yer in the Noo Year!"

Arthur's laugh ended in a sigh, but he thanked the old man for his good wishes, tipped him
even more lavishly than usual, and followed his companions to the drawing-room to examine their
treasures.

