A letter from Lord Lauderdale to Dr. Whichcot is in MS. Harl. 7045. p. 473. I take the figures
from a printed, but not published, account of some of the proceedings relating to Dr. Whichcot's
deprivation of his provostship at the Restoration, in which Lord Lauderdale says, "For I took
an opportunity, in the presence of my Lord Chamberlain, your Chancellor, to acquaint his Majesty
with those excellent endowments with which God hath blesst you, and which render you so worthie
of the place you enjoy, (which the King heard very graciously); afterwards he spoke with my
Lord Chamberlain about your concerns, and he and I are both of opinion there is no fear as
to your concerns." Was Shaftesbury ever Chancellor of Cambridge? or who was the Lord Chamberlain
who at that time was Chancellor of the university? I have no means of referring to any University
History as to these points.

COLL. REGAL. SOCIUS.

Black Doll at Old Store Shops.--I asked you some time since the origin of the Black Doll at
Old Store Shops; but you did not insert my Query, which curiously enough has since been alluded
to by Punch, as a mystery only known to, or capable of being interpreted by, the editor of
"Notes and Queries."

A.C.

    [We are obliged to our correspondent and also to our witty
    contemporary for this testimony to our omniscience, and show our
    sense of their kindness by giving them two explanations. The
    first is, the story which has been told of its originating with
    a person who kept a house for the sale of toys and rags in
    Norton Falgate some century since, to whom an old woman brought
    a large bundle of rags for sale, with a desire that it might
    remain unopened until she could call again to see it weighed.
    Several weeks having elapsed without her re-appearance, the
    ragman opened the bundle, and finding in it a black doll
    neatly dressed, with a pair of gold ear-rings, hung it over his
    door, for the purpose of its being owned by the woman who had
    left it. The plan succeeded, and the woman, who had by means of
    the black doll recovered her bundle of rags, presented it to the
    dealer; and the story becoming known, the black doll was adopted
    as the favourite sign of this class of shopkeepers. Such is the
    romance of the black doll; the reality, we believe, will be
    found in the fact, that cast-off clothes having been formerly
    purchased by dealers in large quantities, for the purpose of
    being resold to merchants, to be exchanged by them in traffic
    with the uncivilised tribes, who, it is known, will barter any
    thing for articles of finery,--a black doll, gaily dressed out,
    was adopted as the sign of such dealers in old apparel.]

Journal of Sir William Beeston.--In reply to the inquiry of "C." (No. 25. p. 400), I can state
that a journal of Sir William Beeston is now preserved in the British Museum (MS. Add. 12,424.),
and was presented to the national collection in 1842, by Charles Edward Long, Esq. It is a
folio volume, entirely autograph, and extends from Dec. 10, 1671, when Beeston was in command
of the Assistance frigate in the West Indies, to July 21, 1673; then from July 6 to September
6, 1680, in a voyage from Port Royal to London; and from December 19, 1692, to March 9, 1692-3,
in returning from Portsmouth to Jamaica; and, lastly, from April 25 to June 28, 1702, in coming
home from Jamaica to England. By a note written by Mr. Long on the fly-leaf of the volume,
it appears that Sir William Beeston was baptized in Dec. 2, 1636, at Titchfield, co. Hants,
and was the second son of William Beeston, of Posbrooke, the same parish, by Elizabeth, daughter
of Arthur Bromfield. (See Visit. C. 19. Coll. Arm.) His elder brother, Henry, was Master of
Winchester, and Warden of New College; and his daughter and heir Jane married, first, Sir Thomas
Modyford, Bart., and, secondly, Charles Long, to whom she was a second wife. To this may be
added, that Sir William received the honour of knighthood at Kensington, October 30, 1692,
and was Governor of Jamaica from 1693 till 1700. In the Add. MS. {445} 12,430. is contained
a narrative, by Sir William Beeston, of the descent by the French on Jamaica, in June, 1694;
as also the copy of a Journal kept by Col. William Beeston from his first coming to Jamaica,
1655-1680.

M.

Shrew (No. 24. p. 381.).--I know not whether it will at all help the inquiry of "W.R.F." to
remind him that the local Dorsetshire name of the shrew-mouse is "shocrop" or "shrocrop." The
latter is the word given in Mr. Barnes's excellent Glossary, but I have just applied for its
name to two labourers, and their pronunciation of it is clearly the former.

I should be glad to hear any conjecture as to the final syllable. The only folk-lore connected
with it in this part of the country seems to be that long ago reported by Pennant and others,
viz. "Cats will kill, but not eat it."

C.W.B.

Trunck Breeches.--"X.Y.Z." (No. 24. p. 384) will also find the following in Dryden's Translation
of Perseus:--

  "There on the walls by Polynotu's hand,
  The conquered Medians in trunk-breeches stand."

Certainly a very free translation. See the original, Sat. 3. Trunck is from the Latin truncus,
cut short, maimed, imperfect. In the preface to Johnson's Dictionary we have the following:--

  "The examples are too often injudicious truncated."

Vide also Shaw, Museum Liverianum, or rather examples given in Richardson's Dictionary. Shaw,
in speaking of the feathers of certain birds, says,

    "They appear as if cut off transversely towards their ends with
    scissors. This is a mode of termination which in the language of
    natural history is called truncated."

The word trunck-hose is often met with.

WREDJID KOOEZ.

Queen's Messengers.--"J.U.G.G.," who inquires about Queen's messengers (No. 12. p. 186.), will,
I think, find some such information as he wants in a parliamentary paper about King's messengers,
printed by the House of Commons in 1845 or 1846, on the motion of Mr. Warburton. Something,
I think, also occurs on the subject in the Report of the Commons' Committee of 1844 on the
Opening of Letters in the Post-office. I am unable to refer to either of these documents at
present.

C.

Dissenting Ministers (No. 24. p. 383.).--The verses representing the distinctive characteristics
of many ministers, by allegorical resemblance to flowers, were written by the lady whose paternal
name is given by your correspondent. She married the Rev. Joseph Brooksbank. I think it quite
improbable that those verses were ever published. It seems that two of the three names mentioned
in your description of this "nosegay" are erroneous. The first is indisputable, RICHARD WINTER,
a man of distinguished excellence, who died in 1799. "Hugh Washington" is certainly a mistake
for HUGH WORTHINGTON; but for "James Jouyce" I can offer no conjecture.

J.P.S.

Ballad of "The Wars in France" (No. 20. p. 318.).--Your correspondent "NEMO" will find two
versions of the ballad commencing,

  "As our king lay musing on his bed,"

in appendices 20 and 21 to Sir Harris Nicolas's History of the Battle of Agincourt, 2nd edit.
They are not, I believe, in the first edition. I have a copy of the ballad myself, which I
took down a few years ago, together with the quaint air to which it is sung, from the lips
of an old miner in Derbyshire. My copy does not differ very much from the first of those given
by Sir H. Nicolas.

C.W.G.

