But of late "Lucky Michael" had been very unlucky indeed. His wife had been ill, to begin with;
and one of his two sons (who helped him with his fishing) had been disabled for several weeks
by a bad hurt in his arm. Moreover, his boat was getting so crazy and worn out that it seemed
wonderful how it kept afloat at all; but the news of the Czar's coming seemed to comfort him
for everything.

"If Father Alexander Nikolaievitch would only give us money enough to buy a new boat!" said
old Praskovia, Michael's wife, as she put away what was left of the huge black loaf that had
served for breakfast; "but I suppose it wouldn't do to ask him."

"Of course not!" said Michael, who was an independent old fellow; "he's done quite enough for
us already, in making us freemen, when we were all slaves before.[3] Now, then, let's get to
work. Come, Stepan [Stephen], come, Ivan [John], and let us see what God will send us."

But at first the luck seemed to be still against them, for they drew their net twice without
catching anything. The third time, however, the net felt unusually heavy, and there was such
a tugging and kicking inside of it that it was plain they had caught a pretty big fish of some
kind. John, who was the first to look in, gave a loud hurrah, and shouted, "Father! father!--a
sturgeon! a sturgeon!"

There, sure enough, lay the great fish amid a crowd of smaller ones, in all the pride of its
spiky back, and smooth, brown, scaleless skin. All three rejoiced at the sight, for a sturgeon
will always fetch a good price in Russia, and the two lads began to think at once how far this
would go toward paying for a new boat.

They fished some time longer, and made one or two pretty good hauls; but the sturgeon was the
great event of the day. John and Stephen wrapped it up carefully, and were quite proud to show
it to their mother on getting home; but they looked rather blank at hearing their father say,
in a way which showed that he meant it,

"This is the finest fish I've ever caught, and I won't sell it to any one. It's a Czar among
fish, just like Alexander Nikolaievitch among us; so it shall be his fish, and I'll give it
to him as he passes."

The news of Michael's fish, and of what he meant to do with it, soon spread through the village,
and created considerable excitement. But there was not much time to talk it over, for, two
days later, young Stephen, who had been sent to look out for the Czar's steamer, came running
to say that it was in sight. So Michael put his sturgeon into the boat, and away they pulled.
It was a hard pull against that strong current, but at last they got near enough to hail the
steamer and be taken in tow.

Up went Michael, fish and all, and the captain led him aft to where the Czar and his officers
were standing. Many of them were handsome, stalwart men, all ablaze with lace and embroidery;
but the old fisherman, with his tall, upright figure, clear bright eye, and hale old face framed
in snow-white hair, looked, despite his rough dress, as fine a man as any of them.

"See here, father," said he, "this is the finest fish I ever caught, and so I've kept it for
you. I want nothing for it; take it as a free gift."

"Thank you, brother," said the Czar; "it's a royal fish, indeed, and I'll have it for dinner
this very day, and drink your health over it. What's your name?"

"Michael Ribakoff, father, from the village of Pavlovo."

"Good--I won't forget you. Good-by!"

When the villagers heard what had happened, they all thought Michael rather a fool for giving
his fish away, when the Czar would have paid a good price for it. But a week later came a fine
new fishing-boat for "Michael Ribakoff," in the stern locker of which were a complete suit
of fisherman's clothes and a new net, with a piece of paper inscribed, in the Czar's own handwriting,
"A midsummer gift from Alexander Nikolaievitch." And old Michael always said that he valued
the paper far more than the boat.

FOOTNOTES:

[3] Here Michael must be corrected. Of the forty-nine millions of Russian peasants, only twenty-three
millions were actually serfs.

THE HERMIT AND THE ROBBERS.

A gentle hermit, one day, proceeding on his way through a vast forest, chanced to discover
a large cave nearly hidden under-ground. Being much fatigued, he entered to repose himself
awhile; and observing something shining in the distance, he approached, and found it was a
heap of gold. At the sight he turned away, and hastening through the forest again as fast as
possible, had the misfortune to fall into the hands of three fierce robbers. They asked from
whom he fled, and he answered, "I am flying from Death, who is urging me sorely behind."

The robbers, not perceiving any one, cried out, "Show us where he is." The hermit replied,
"Follow me," and proceeded toward the grotto. He there pointed out to them the fatal place,
beseeching them at the same time to abstain from looking at it. But the thieves, seizing upon
the treasure, began to rejoice exceedingly. They afterward permitted the good man to proceed
on his way, amusing themselves by ridiculing his strange conduct. At length they began to consider
what they should do with the gold. One of them observed, "We ought not to leave the place without
taking this treasure with us."

"No," replied another, "we had better not do so; but let one of us take a small portion, and
set out to buy wine and meat in the city, besides many other things we are in need of;" and
to this the other two consented.

Now the evil spirit, which is always busy on these occasions, directly began to tempt the robber
who was to go into the city. "As soon," whispered the bad spirit to him, "as I shall have reached
the city, I will eat and drink of the best of everything as much as I please, and then purchase
what I want. Afterward I will mix with the food intended for my companions something which
I trust will settle their account, thus becoming sole master of the whole of the treasure,
which will make me one of the richest men in this part of the world;" and as he purposed to
do, so he did.

He carried the poisoned food to his companions, who, on their part, while he had been away,
had come to the conclusion of killing him on his return, in order that they might divide the
money among themselves, saying, "Let us fall upon him the moment he comes, and afterward eat
what he has brought, and divide the money between us in much larger shares than before."

The robber who had been into the city now returned with the articles he had bought, and was
immediately killed. The others then began to feast upon the provisions prepared for them, and
were seized with violent pains, and soon died. In this manner all three fell victims to each
other's avarice and cruelty, without obtaining their ill-gotten wealth.

ANIMAL-PLANTS.

The aquarium presents a field for delightful and ever-varying study, as its inhabitants belong
to the most curious and interesting of ocean and fresh-water creatures. Fishes alone are well
worthy of close observation; and when to these are added odd little reptiles, queer shell-fish,
and different classes of the wonderful zoophytes, an aquarium presents a constantly changing
picture of the marvels of ocean life.

The zoophytes are the most remarkable of all marine creatures. The name zoophyte comes from
two Greek words--zoön, an animal, and phyton, a plant--and therefore has the literal signification
of animal-plant.

