Mr. Griswold's uncle came again. When it was time to depart his nephew had to remind him of
the fact.

"Your sister's conversation is so deeply engrossing," he apologized, blandly, to Eulalie.

"Is it?" Eulalie asked, languidly remote.

Several new varieties of thorn outcropped in Elvira's daily walk. So small a point as a new
stock collar, sober gray though it was, occasioned one.

"No doubt Mr. Griswold's uncle will find it 'so engrossing.'" Eulalie's voice was sourly satirical,
and her soft eyebrows made sharp angles.

Elvira stared in hopeless amaze at her grasping sister.

"She had two new young men yesterday--can it be possible she wants Mr. Courtenay, too?" wondered
the harassed elder.

A loosening of the tension on Elvira's strained nerves came with the visit of Marion, the third
daughter of the house, for this fact dovetailed neatly with a request from Hazel, the second
daughter. She was not very well; was run down, and needed the tonic of companionship from home.
Would Elvira come for a while and be the medicine? Possibly a change would do the latter good,
and prove a reciprocal tonic.

"Tonic! It would be a balm of Gilead--an elixir of life--a sojourn at the fountain of youth
and happiness for me to get away from the chaperoning of Eulalie for a while," Elvira admitted.

"Then go." Marion settled the question for her with kindly dispatch. "I'll look after the minx,
and tell her some useful truth now and then, too."

III.

"Bless your scolding curls--you look as pretty and sweet and out of style as a fashion plate
of '65."

Hazel had raked Elvira's hat off and was weaving her fingers through the flat, brown bands
of her sister's hair.

"A neat pompadour, with an empire knot, would make an up-to-date etching of you."

Then she caught her by the shoulder and pulled her up in front of a mirror, snuggling her own
face down beside Elvira's. "Look there--I've a mind to pinch you; you're three years older
than I. What do you mean by looking at least eight younger, and just like a big peach, at that--hey?"

"Maybe it's because I don't frazzle up years of good vitality over little everyday snarls,"
Elvira replied, serenely, but added, more meekly, "I've been very near to it lately, though,
with Eulalie and her young men."

"Eulalie--yes; she ought to be cuffed a time or two; I know her. Look here, Elv, you've simply
got to let me fix you a pompadour and have your seams made straight. You'd have a presence
to eclipse us all if you'd spunk up to your dressmaker and not let her put off crooked gores
on you. I'm going to fix you."

"I thought I came here to nurse you."

"Oh, well, you can coddle me sometimes, when I think I'm getting yellow and peaked. But it's
a whole lot of potions and powders just to have you here. All the same, I had another little
nail to drive in importing you. I've got an old boy picked out--the baron we call him. He's
a worthy soul--upright and straight walking as you please, so it needn't be any obstacle to
you that he owns a whole bunch of mills a few miles out. He isn't here now, but soon will be,
looking after the mills, and you've got to see him. He's quite a bit older than you, but that's
no odds. His name is Courtenay----"

"Erastus?"

"How did you come by it so glibly?"

"One of Eulalie's planets has an uncle named that. He brought him to the house a few times,
to brighten up my desert island."

"Oh, sweet innocence! So you know him! Then the romance is already cut and basted."

"There isn't a rag of romance about it. Mr. Courtenay hasn't tendered me his heart and his
mills; I should not take them if he did so. Besides, I have a glimmer that Eulalie has her
eye upon him."

"Did you ever know of a breathing man Eulalie did not have her eye upon?"

"Barring tramps, not one. Still, Mr. Courtenay might distance the field. Besides, again, Mr.
Griswold says he--the uncle--vowed long ago to remain forever true to the memory of his first
wife."

"Yes," reflected Hazel, "that is so final! But you'll let me pompadour your hair?"

"Oh, I don't care--if you don't pomp it too loudly."

Two weeks later Hazel wrote a letter to Marion, containing this item:

    Elvira has lost the little up-and-down worry wrinkle between her
    eyes--the only one she had; she looks about twenty-two. Mr.
    Erastus Courtenay has come to Lindale to inspect his mills, but
    he hasn't seen the inside of one of them yet. He is here a great
    deal.

And this postscript was appended:

    Tubs wouldn't hold the roses Mr. Courtenay squanders on Elvira.

Marion incautiously read the letter to Eulalie, and a tempest was at once put to steep in a teapot.

"Oh, brag to me about your modest, self-sacrificing spinsters! Mighty agreeable and willing
was Miss Elvira to go and be a tonic to Madame Hazel--and, incidentally, be handy for a rich
mill owner to waste roses on! The pair of them! Didn't know anything about it until she got
to Lindale? You're green enough for sheep to eat if you think she wasn't planning it all ever
since she heard of Hugh's uncle. She knew he would be going to Lindale soon, and mighty easy
it was for her and Hazel to cook up a plot to have her there when he came. 'Oh, my, such a
surprise to meet you here, Mr. Courtenay!'" Eulalie gave an imitation of Elvira's imagined
giggle. "She's got to come straight home again--that's what she has."

"My stars, Laly," besought Marion, "don't beat up a tornado about it. What is it to you if
Elvira does marry Hugh's uncle, or anybody she sees fit?"

"She has no business--it's absurd at her age."

"Thirty-two isn't decrepit."

"It's too old for such didoes. And she knows that Mr. Courtenay has vowed never to marry again,
and that Hugh will inherit the mills if he doesn't."

"Oh, that's the snag! But you are not engaged to Hugh, are you?"

"No, not yet."

"Did Elvira know you had intentions that way?"

"She might have known I'd take him when I got ready if she kept her webs away from that old
donkey of an uncle."

"What mortal, do you presume to say, could divine which one of your ninety and nine misguided
admirers you were going, when you get good and ready, to favor with the empty husk of your
frivolous little heart? And if anyone could tell, what law or statute have you against Elvira's
equal right to the mills, provided she loves the miller?"

"It's scandalous!" Eulalie flew back to her grievance, unmindful of Marion's logic. "She's
got to come back where I can keep an eye on her. And if the old guinea comes after her, I'll
cut her out and marry him."

IV.

Those tubs of roses Hazel had touched upon buried their thorns sharply in Eulalie's memory.
That any son of Adam could see her bewildering self and then give roses to Elvira was preposterous--besides,
the mills would follow. An end must be to the folly.

She invoked Hugh Griswold's assistance. He ought to see that the roses might crowd him away
from his inheritance.

"I'm afraid I ought to tell you something," she regretted, amiably. "I hear Elvira is plainly
fishing for your uncle."

Hugh grinned comfortably.

"If there is any fishing doing, I rather reckon it's on uncle E.'s side of the pond," he said,
easily.

"She has no business to let him, then!" Eulalie's eyes began to sparkle out blue fire. "A sly
old minx she is! She----"

Hugh was looking intently at her, as if he saw her in some weird, new light. She tapered off
suddenly, and grew plaintive.

"I want her back here, anyway. I'm not well, and Marion is cross to me."

"I'll stop and tell her so as I go through Lindale, on my annual camping tramp--shall I?"

"Oh, yes, do--please do," Eulalie pleaded, sweetly.

During the few days before his departure she grew pale and languid, and reminded him frequently
of his promise.

"Be sure and send her right home," she urged. "Tell her I'm sick and miserable, and Marion
doesn't treat me well."

V.

"Is Laly's illness a matter of doctors and drugs, or is it a becoming little paleness in a
pink tea-gown?" wrote Hazel to Marion, after the arrival of Eulalie's ambassador, with her
royal message. "If it is at all serious, Elvira will go home at once. If it isn't, I would
like to keep her a while. She has refused the man of the mills, but I think he is trembling
on the brink of another proposal, from which I hope a different result."

Marion wrote back:

    "Tell Elvira to stay as long as she likes. Laly's pallor came
    out of her powder box. She eats rations enough for two."

When Hugh returned Eulalie made bitter moan about her hapless lot.

"I've been so hunted and harassed by autumn dudes that I didn't want, and their bleating autos,
I haven't had the peace of a cat. And you stayed away so, and Elvira has utterly abandoned
me. She never came home."

"Your sister Hazel wouldn't let her," said Hugh, looking inquisitively at Eulalie's healthful
bloom.

"Oh, I got along. And I suppose those roses went to her head, poor old dear; it's such a new
thing for her to have them given her. Didn't she chant pæans over them?"

"You couldn't notice any pæans," said Hugh, "but several fellows were trying to chant proposals
to her besides uncle E. Ginger! but you ought to see Elvira now, Miss Eulalie; she's all dimply
and pink, and her hair isn't slick, like it used to be, though it isn't messy, either; it's
kind of crimpled up high, some way, like you'd raveled out a brown silk dress and piled up
the ravelings. She wears new kind of things, too--dresses with jig-saw things--you know what
I mean, frilly tricks that make you think of peach blossoms, or pie plant when it's cooked
and all pink-white and clear. Why, it's true as preaching. I never knew her until I met her
there at Lindale."

"So my prim, old-maid sister has turned butterfly since she went gadding?"

"No, she isn't a butterfly; she's too well supplied with brains for that; she couldn't keep
that bunch of old worldlings hypnotized as she does if she hadn't a pile of original ideas
of her own, though the dimples and frillicues may have caught them in the first place."

"Huh!" commented Eulalie, shortly. "I wonder how you happened to get so well acquainted with
her, just passing through Lindale."

"I couldn't have," Hugh owned; "takes time to learn to appreciate a girl like that. If it hadn't
been for your message, I suppose I never should have gone beyond the preface of her character;
but when I saw the whirlwind she had stirred up among the dry leaves of the elderly boys' hearts,
I concluded to postpone the tramping trip and watch the fun a while. Honestly, she was a new
experience to me."

"I'm surprised to hear of her frivolity." A slight, shrewish flavor crept into Eulalie's smooth
voice. "The way she used to persecute me for having a few beaux----"

"Oh, she doesn't want them, nor encourage them," Hugh quickly explained. "She just stays still,
like a lamp, you know, that shines out soft and clear because it can't help it, and they go
bumping along and sizzle their wings. It isn't her doings. They're mostly all too old for her--why,
do you know, Miss Eulalie, I had supposed she was older than I, and I discovered she was two
years younger?"

"I hope that won't prevent her being a good aunt to you," mused Eulalie, with restrained spite.

Hugh laughed, cheerily.

"She won't be any kind of an aunt to me--to uncle E.'s disgust. I did think he deserved a free
field, because he discovered her in the chrysalis--when he came here with me; and he got it,
so far as I was concerned. But he admitted to me that he thought it folly to keep on butting
your head against a perfectly immovable wall, alluring as the wall might be; that he should
go back to his mills and his former resolution and keep off the battlefield of love forever
after. So then I concluded to give up my tramp entirely for this year and see if I could make
a go with Cupid--and--a--Elvira is having a wedding dress made, and is going to accept me as
a wedding present."

THE NEIGHBOR'S DOG

By UNA HUDSON

Half an hour after the new tenant had taken possession of the house next door, Miss Clementina
Liddell looked out of her parlor window and saw a small, brown dog making himself very much
at home on her front lawn.

Now, though the dog himself was small, his feet were not, and he was industriously digging
a hole in the middle of Miss Clementina's bed of scarlet geraniums.

Miss Clementina was indignant. But for her unwillingness to speak to a gentleman to whom she
had not been properly introduced, she would have promptly crossed the strip of grass between
the two houses and demanded that the intruder be forced to return to his own lawn.

As it was, she went out and attempted to "shoo" him off. But the little brown dog would not
shoo. He stopped digging, and, with much waving of his stubby tail and a friendly bark or two,
launched himself at Miss Clementina.

She stepped hastily backward, but not before the front of her neat, pink morning gown had been
hopelessly soiled by the dog's muddy feet.

"You bad, bad dog," she scolded, energetically, emphasizing her words by a lifted forefinger.

The little dog barked cheerfully and circled twice around her. He was so frankly, so joyously
irrepressible, that Miss Clementina did not know whether to feel amused or vexed.

"Oh, well," she compromised, "I dare say you mean well. And we can fill up the hole you've
dug, but I do hope you won't do it again."

She looked him over critically.

"You're thin," she decided, mentally; "shockingly thin. I'm afraid your master doesn't feed
you enough. He probably has an absurd notion that a dog shouldn't be fed but once a day. I've
heard of such things, and I think it's positively inhuman."

Miss Clementina glanced furtively toward the house next door. No one was in sight. She bent
over the wriggling brown dog.

"You poor thing," she whispered, "come around to the kitchen. For once in your life you shall
have all you can eat."

It was a rash promise, and the keeping of it involved the chops for luncheon and all the milk
in the house.

"He's rather a nice dog, don't you think?" Miss Clementina said to the maid, as she watched
him eat. "But he has a dreadful appetite. I think we'd best tell the butcher's boy to bring
some dog's meat; chops are so expensive."

II.

Mr. Kent Maclin took his hat and stick and started for his customary after-dinner stroll. On
the front porch he found a small, brown dog busily engaged in reducing the doormat to a pulp.

Mr. Maclin recognized the dog as one belonging to the next door neighbor; he had seen him earlier
in the day digging in a bed of scarlet geraniums. If people would keep dogs, Mr. Maclin thought
they ought at least to teach them to behave. Still, if the lady who owned the dog could stand
it to have her flower beds ruined, Mr. Maclin supposed he ought not to mind a chewed-up doormat.

The dog was only a puppy, anyway. His manners would probably improve as he grew older. Mr.
Maclin stooped and patted him kindly on the head. The stubby brown tail thumped the floor ecstatically,
and a red tongue shot out and began licking the polish from Mr. Maclin's shoes.

"Jolly little beggar, aren't you?" said the gentleman. But he backed hastily away from the
moist, red tongue.

III.

Mr. Maclin ordered a new doormat every three days, and kept a package of dog biscuits in the
drawer of the library table. He dealt these out with a lavish hand whenever the little brown
dog saw fit to call for them, and was not without hope that a cultivated taste for dog biscuit
might in time replace a natural one for doormats.

Mr. Maclin would have been glad to make the acquaintance of the supposed owner of the little
brown dog, but didn't quite know how to go about it.

But one day, as he watched the little brown dog digging as usual in the geranium bed, he had
an inspiration.

He paid a visit to the florist, and came back with a long pasteboard box tucked under his arm.
It was filled with a glowing mass of red geraniums.

The composition of a suitable note to accompany the flowers was a task requiring much time
and mental effort.

Finally, in sheer desperation, Mr. Maclin wrote on one of his cards, "To replace the flowers
the dog has dug up," and dropped it among the scarlet blossoms.

He had hesitated between "the dog" and "your dog," but had decided against the latter, being
fearful that it might, perhaps, be construed as conveying a subtle hint of reproach. Mr. Maclin's
lawn also was defaced by many unsightly holes.

Miss Clementina wondered a little that the article "the" should have replaced the possessive
pronoun "my." But on reflection she decided that one might not unreasonably object to confessing
in so many words to the possession of a dog who so persistently did all the things he ought
not to do. And, anyway, it was nice of Mr. Maclin to have sent the flowers.

Miss Clementina wrote a charming note of thanks, and earnestly assured Mr. Maclin that she
didn't object in the least to the little dog's digging up her lawn.

Mr. Maclin smiled at the naïveté of the little note, and tucked it carefully away in his pocketbook.

Thereafter the two bowed soberly when they chanced to meet, and occasionally exchanged a casual
remark concerning the weather.

And once, when Miss Clementina was picking the dead leaves from what was left of the geranium
plants, Mr. Maclin paused to remark that the little brown dog seemed very fond of her.

"And of you, too," Miss Clementina had quickly returned. It couldn't be pleasant, she thought,
for Mr. Maclin to feel that his pet had deserted him for a stranger.

"It's the dog biscuits I give him," Mr. Maclin explained, confidentially.

"Oh," said Miss Clementina, "is he fond of them? I've always considered meat much more nourishing."

"I dare say it is," Mr. Maclin agreed. "But dog biscuits are handier to keep about. And he
comes for them so often."

Then, covered with confusion, he beat a hasty retreat. He hadn't intended to hint at the voracious
appetite of Miss Clementina's pet.

IV.

Miss Clementina looked with dismay at the much battered object the little brown dog had just
brought in and laid at her feet. It was all that remained of Mr. Maclin's best Panama hat.

Miss Clementina picked it up gingerly. She crossed the strip of lawn between the two houses
and rang her neighbor's doorbell.

"I'm so sorry," she said, extending the hat to its owner. "It's really too bad of the little dog."

"It's of not the very slightest consequence," returned Mr. Maclin, gallantly.

"Oh, but I think it is," Miss Clementina insisted. "He's a very bad little dog, really. Don't
you think perhaps you ought to whip him--not hard, but just enough to make him remember?"

"Whip him! Whip your dog! My dear Miss Liddell, I couldn't think of such a thing."

Miss Clementina's eyes seemed very wide indeed.

"But he's not my dog at all," she protested. "Isn't he yours, Mr. Maclin?"

"I never laid eyes on him," said Mr. Maclin, "until I moved here. The first time I saw him
he was digging in your geranium bed."

"Oh!" said Miss Clementina, and began to laugh.

"And to think," she said, "of all the outrageous things he has done! And neither of us daring
to say a word because we each thought he belonged to the other."

Mr. Maclin laughed with her. "I think," he said, "that from now on the little brown dog will
have to reform."

V.

