 He was executed the next day, but we fail to perceive on what ground, either of justice
or of humanity.

THE PREAY CHAMBER.

By An Old Boy.

Before I had been long at Mr. Gray's boarding-school, to which I was sent when I was a very
young boy, and which was very different from such schools as St. Paul's, I heard of a mysterious
and horrible place called, as the boys said, the Preay Chamber. We supposed it to be a gloomy
and awful dungeon, but nobody knew just where it was, and nobody pretended that he had ever
been imprisoned in it. The truth was that it was thought to be a punishment so dreadful that
whenever a boy was sentenced to the chamber of torture, good, motherly Mrs. Gray, whom we all
loved, always interceded for the culprit. Good woman, how we did bless her!

I am an old boy now, but all younger boys will understand how easy it was for me one evening
when we were all marching out from tea, and I passed close by the table with the open sugar
bowl upon it, to raise my hand quietly, without stopping or looking, seize a lump of sugar,
and let my hand drop again.

"Joe!" instantly shouted Mr. Gray, who sat in his chair watching us as we filed out.

"Yes, Sir."

"Come here, Joe, and all the boys remain."

I was a little fellow of seven years old, and I pity my poor little self as I look back upon
that moment. I advanced to the master's chair, and stood before him in the presence of the
school, with my guilty right hand closed at my side. There was awful silence as the master said,

"Joe, what have you in your hand?"

"Nothing, Sir."

"Joe, hold out your right hand."

I held it out.

"Now, Joe, you say that there is nothing in your hand?"

"Yes, Sir."

"Open your hand, Joe."

I opened it, and the lump of sugar dropped to the floor.

It was the first lie I had ever told, and my terror and shame were such that the recollection
has been a kind of good angel to me ever since. The master said a few solemn words, the justice
of which my poor little heart could not deny, although he had exposed me to a cruel ordeal;
and then, with an air like that of a Lord Chief Justice putting on the black cap to sentence
a murderer to death, he concluded: "Joe, you must be severely punished. Go to Mrs. Gray, and
tell her that you are to go to the Preay Chamber."

There was a silent shudder of sympathy among the boys as I departed; and finding Mrs. Gray,
I told her, with sobs of terror, my doom. The good woman listened kindly; and then, with the
tenderness of a mother, she pointed out to me the meanness of the theft and of the falsehood,
and we both sat and cried together. Then she said, "Joe, I am sure that you see that you have
done wrong, and that you are very sorry, and don't mean to do so any more."

I was utterly broken down, and sobbed in a kind of hysterical paroxysm.

"Now, Joe, go back to Mr. Gray, tell him that we have been talking together, and that you are
truly sorry, and will try to do better, and that this time, and for my sake, I hope that you
may be let off from the Preay Chamber."

I went back, and with tears and catchings of the breath I repeated the message. Mr. Gray listened;
and when I had done, he said:

"Joe, you are a very naughty boy; but as you say that you are sorry, and will try to mend,
and as dear Mrs. Gray intercedes for you, you need not go this time to the Preay Chamber. But
remember, it is only for this time."

I was like a victim suddenly released from the stake, and the narrow escape I had had from
the mysterious chamber of doom made that dungeon still more awful. There were very few sentences
to the chamber afterward, and gradually its name disappeared from our talk and from our fear.
Now and then some boy asked, "What has become of the Preay Chamber?" But nobody answered. If
an older boy asked Mr. or Mrs. Gray, they only smiled, and said nothing. The terror gradually
died away, and the chamber of horrors became a mere legend. Long afterward it was known that
it was all a kindly but deceitful understanding between Mr. and Mrs. Gray. If a young boy did
wrong, and it was thought that reproof and the mere dread of punishment would be penalty severe
enough, it was agreed that Mr. Gray would send the offender to Mrs. Gray to be immured in the
Preay Chamber. That message was a hint to her to beg--or, in the French language, prier--that
for this once the culprit, upon his promise to do better, should be pardoned.

There is no doubt that the fear of the chamber exercised some restraint upon mischievous boys.
But it was a kind of deceit which is in itself mischievous. The very name still haunts my imagination,
although I am a bald-headed old boy, for what the most secret chamber of the Inquisition was
to the timid heretic, the Preay Chamber was to the little boy I used to be.

THE STORY OF A PARROT.

The children were thinking of something very important. Anybody could see that. Papa and mamma
wondered why they were so serious and silent at the breakfast table, and mamma was astonished
when Carrie, and even little Hope, begged to walk part of the way to school with Louis, because
they had never thought of doing such a thing before. Louis was a bright-faced, rosy-cheeked
boy of ten years, Carrie was eight, and little Hope was only six. Mamma was always very kind
to her little folks, and as the morning was sunny, she said they might go if they would put
on their heavy shoes and their cloaks and hoods, for there was a white crisp frost all over
the grass. Mamma watched them with pride as they scampered down the garden path leading from
the front piazza to the street, but had she heard their conversation she might have staid at
home from the party she was going to that evening, and put a veto on their grand plan.

"Now, Louis," said Carrie, as soon as they were away from the house, "you know you promised
to sit up with Hope and me to-night and listen, because nurse says at midnight all birds and
beasts talk so children can understand every word; and papa and mamma are going to a party,
and they won't come home until ever so late."

"Nonsense!" said Louis, who felt very much wiser than Carrie, she being to his mind "only a
girl;" "I don't believe nurse's story. I can always understand what Fritz says, and I say he
can not bow-wow any plainer than he did this morning when he bid me good-by."

"Yes, he can," persisted Carrie. "Nurse says so, and she knows, for her grandfather told her
all about it when she was a little bit of a girl, and he was a real old, old man. If people
believed it so many years ago, it must be true."

Louis's confidence in his own wisdom was somewhat weakened by the thought of nurse's grandfather,
but, boy-like, he only began to sing tauntingly:

  "Into woods where beasts can talk,
  I went out to take a walk."

"I'm going to stay awake anyway, and talk to my kitty," said little Hope, "because I know what
nurse said is true. I saw my kitty laugh when she heard nurse say it." Carrie was silent. She
walked at Louis's side, kicking the pebbles of the gravelled path with her feet.

"Oh, if you girls are going to make such a fuss about it, I'll sit up with you," said Louis;
"and if nurse's grandfather said so," he added, hesitatingly, "perhaps it is true, after all.
He was a very old man, and he must have known."

"Of course he knew," said Carrie, "for nurse said he had a cow, a red and white one, that told
him lots of things every year on this very night."

After the mention of the red and white cow, Louis made no more opposition, and the children
soon separated, Louis to spend the day in school while Carrie and Hope scampered home, said
their lessons to mamma, and then went to play with Fritz, the big dog, Bess, the white kitty,
Lorito, a large gray parrot, and the new canary which papa had bought only the day before.

When evening came papa and mamma went to the party, and nurse, who had forgotten all about
her grandfather and the red and white cow, wondered why the children went to bed so willingly,
for they were sometimes very willful, and made nurse a great deal of trouble when she undressed
them. She was very glad they were good to-night, because, as "missis" was away, she had made
up her mind to go to a party herself, the house-maid having promised to run up to the nursery
if she heard the children calling. There was little danger, however, that they would call for
a drink of water or anything else that night, for as they were not in the least sure of nurse's
sympathy in their midnight vigil, they had agreed to go to bed as quiet as mice and watch their
chance of slipping unobserved to the library, where their pets spent the night. Long after
nurse had gone down stairs, and when the house was very, very still, Carrie sat up in bed and
gently called her brother, who slept in a little room of his own adjoining the nursery.

"Louis! Louis!" she said.

"Oh, don't bother," answered Louis. "It won't be midnight for ever so long."

"But if we stay in bed we shall go to sleep. Hope is half asleep now."

"No, I'm not sleepy," said little Hope, "and I'm going to get my kitty and go right down to
the library this very minute." She rolled out of bed, and went to the basket in the corner
where kitty was fast asleep, and bundled her up in her little fat arms.

The children all started to creep down stairs, but they shrank back a little from the dimly
lighted hall below, which somehow did not look a bit as it did in the daytime. "Come on," said
Louis, who felt very grand as the protector of his sisters; "I've brought my new bow and arrow,
and if there is a villain there, you'll see how quick I'll lay him out. I'm not afraid, anyway,
where Fritz is," he added, half to himself. They marched along very softly, their little bare
feet sinking into the soft velvet carpet. Louis went boldly ahead with his bow and arrow. Carrie
followed, her jet-black hair streaming down over her white night dress, and little Hope came
close behind, hugging her white kitty, who winked in astonishment at this strange proceeding.
When they reached the library, Fritz, who was stretched on the Turkish rug before the grate,
in which a piece of English coal was burning slowly, rose to his feet, amazed at the unusual
sight; but he was too lazy for a frolic at that hour, and after a soft "wuf-wuf" he lay down
and went to sleep again. The library was dimly lighted, and wore an air of wonder and mystery
to the now excited children. Rique, the canary, was curled into a little round yellow ball,
and paid no attention to his visitors. Lorito, who was perched in a big gilded cage in the
corner, had his beak buried in his feathers and his eyes shut fast. He opened his eyes, however,
when the children came near, and put down his head to be rubbed, but after a few sleepy grunts
he said, "Poor Lorito, poor Lorito," and shut his eyes again. Evidently the children's pets
had no inclination to be sociable just at present. Just then the ormolu clock on the mantel-piece
struck ten.

"We shall have to wait ever so long," said Louis, "because they won't talk till midnight. Let's
lie down on the rug with Fritz."

So the three children cuddled close to the big dog and waited. Louis pulled mamma's blue and
red afghan from the lounge, and after tucking it carefully over his little sisters, crawled
under it himself, and--

"Bow-wow," said Fritz. "Who's got a story to tell, I wonder? I'm not going to tell one, that's
very certain, for I scratched my throat this morning with a chicken bone."

"Mew-mew," said the white kitty. "I've done lots of work to-day. I unwound a big ball of green
worsted for my little mistress, and I'm tired. Let somebody else do the talking."

"Peep," said the canary. "I'm a stranger; I only arrived yesterday, and I ought to be entertained.
Some other time I will tell you all my adventures, but to-night I prefer to listen. I would
like to hear from that gray-coated gentleman over there in the corner, for as he is a very
distant relation of mine, both of us belonging to the great bird family, I would, I am sure,
take great interest in his history."

"Lorito, you will have to do all the talking to-night," said Fritz and the white kitty both
at once. "Tell our new friend Rique all the wonderful things you have seen, and all the strange
adventures you have been through."

Thus entreated, the gray parrot, after flapping his wings several times, in a lazy manner,
began to tell his history.

"I will begin my story," said the gray parrot, "with the good old times when my grandfather
and grandmother lived in the hollow of a giant tree which grew in the valley of the Congo,
whose broad waters flow downward through the wildernesses of Southern Africa to the Atlantic
Ocean. My grandfather belonged to a very large family, which was increasing rapidly; indeed,
the gray parrots of Africa, with their magnificent crimson tails, are the chief glory of the
country. The children of my grandfather were very numerous, and no father was kinder or more
skillful than he in providing them with an independent establishment, for he believed that
young people should always set up housekeeping for themselves as soon as possible. As soon,
therefore, as my father was old enough to be married, and grandpa saw that he had already selected
a pretty wife, he immediately found him a convenient hollow tree on the very shore of our beautiful
river, which he showed to papa and mamma, saying, 'My children, here is a fine place for your
housekeeping; make your nest at once.' Papa and mamma were a very affectionate couple, and
they aided each other in the work of nest-building. Papa brought the materials--moss, twigs,
and soft grasses--and mamma arranged them artistically in the interior of the hollow tree,
making a pretty and comfortable apartment. The nest was soon complete, and housekeeping began.
Papa and mamma were not a moment too soon in their preparations, for no sooner was the nest
constructed than it contained three eggs. Beautiful little eggs they were, papa has often told
me, and mamma never contradicted him. I was in one of those three eggs. My brother and my sister
were in the other two. Mamma kept us warm with the greatest care, while papa brought her food
like a good husband, always choosing the particular fruits and other delicacies she preferred.
As this attention allowed her to brood us constantly under her warm wings, we soon became ambitious
to escape from our shells. One beautiful morning, to the great delight of my parents, I burst
the delicate prison walls which confined me. My brother and sister made their appearance in
the world a day later."

[TO BE CONTINUED.]

THE BOY'S TELESCOPE.

The parson's boys were very fond of astronomy. They knew the chief constellations, and kept
the place of the planets as they moved along among the stars. When their father told them how
splendidly the moon and the planets look through a telescope, they were sadly disappointed
to learn that a telescope costs so much money that he could not think of buying even one of
the smallest size. Happening to hint that perhaps one might be made at home at small expense
which would show the moon in new light and bring Jupiter's moons to sight, they gave him no
rest till he had agreed that he would "see about it."

A few days afterward he showed the boys two common tin tubes which the stove man had just made.
One was about one inch and a half in diameter, and about thirty inches long; the other was
about twelve inches long, and just enough smaller to slip inside the first, and move easily
out and in. The inside of both was painted black, so that there would be no reflecting of light
inside. It is better--he told the boys--to paint the inside, if possible, after the tube is
made, because the rolling and pounding in shaping and soldering the tube are likely to make
the paint crack off. Then he took out of his pocket a paper, and unrolled a round spectacle
glass, just big enough to slip into the end of the larger tube. "What's that?" the children
exclaimed, all at once. "This is the object-glass of our telescope," was the answer. "The light
from the object comes through this into the tube. It is a thirty-six-inch glass; that is, it
brings the rays together at a distance of thirty-six inches." Frank held it up to the sun,
which was getting low, and when the rays began to burn his hand, Walter brought the yard-stick,
and it was just about thirty-six inches from the glass to the spot on his hand where he felt
the heat. That was the focus of the glass. While the boys were wondering how the object-glass
was to be fastened into the tube, the parson was already doing it. He had the tinman cut slits
in the end about an eighth of an inch wide and almost twice as deep. Every other one of these
he doubled back inside the tube, and pressed down with pincers, so that there should be nothing
sticking out in the way of the moon and stars if they should try to get in. These made a rest
for the glass, so that it couldn't slip into the tube. Then he bent the other slits down over
the edge of the glass, but not so as to shut out any light, and these slits held the glass firmly.

The boys, of course, now wished to see whether the steeple of the church looked any bigger
through this tube and object-glass. They couldn't see it so well as with the naked eye, and
feared the new telescope was a failure. But their father told them it was too soon yet to vote
on that question. He told Frank to hold out his hand, and see whether the sun would burn his
hand through the glass and tube, as it did through the glass alone. It did. "Now," said he,
"if you hold this tube up to Jupiter, at thirty-six inches from the glass there will be a very
small image of him and his moons. If we could only see that image or picture through a microscope,
we might see the moons as plainly as we see Jupiter himself with the naked eye."

"Why won't our microscope do?" asked Walter.

The parson said we couldn't get the image and the microscope together rightly; but while he
was explaining, he was also unrolling another paper, out of which came a big bulging glass
almost as round as a boy's eye. The edges of this had been ground down so that it would go
into the end of the small tube, and it was fastened in just as the other was, only the slits
needed to be a little longer, because the glass was thicker. This was a one-inch eyeglass;
that is, it must be an inch from the object or image at which you are looking. He then cut
in a piece of paper a round hole about as big as a shirt button, and pasted this over the eyeglass,
and covered the end of the tube around, so that no light could come in there except through
this small opening in the paper, which was so put on that the eye must look through the middle
of the glass. He also pasted some strips of brown paper around the other end of the telescope,
jutting over the object-glass just enough to keep it from breaking, and to prevent any light
from coming through the edges, but not letting the paper touch this glass, as it did the eyeglass.
The object-glass wants all the light it can get.

The boys had the first look; but they could see nothing, though the woods to which the glass
was turned were yet visible.

"What's the focus of the glasses?" asked the parson.

"Thirty-six inches and one inch," was the correct answer.

The boys marked where the thirty-six inches ended, measuring from the object-glass. They then
brought the eyeglass up to within about an inch of that, and looked through it again.

"Oh-oh-oo!" exclaimed Frank: "I see the trees so near that I can get hold of them, but they're
bottom side up!"

"Yes," said their father, "but that will make little difference when looking at Jupiter or
the moon."

They all had to wait what seemed a long time for the darkness to come, and let the stars appear.
When the parson returned from the post-office after tea, he said it would be impossible to
hold the tube in the hands steadily enough to see the planets plainly. So he found a strip
of board about a foot long and two or three inches wide, which was hollowed out on one side.
Into this hollow he fixed the tube by common tacks and small wire. Then through the middle
of this strip he bored a large gimlet hole, and put in a long screw, and went to the workshop
in the basement to make a standard into which to screw the strip which held the tube. He couldn't
find nor make just what he wanted soon enough--the boys said that "Jupiter had just come out
clear"--and so he caught the first box he could lay hold of, and screwed the tube upon one
of its sides, just tight enough to hold it snug, yet let it move up or down. Then he called
for a light stand, and case knives to make it and the box stand perfectly still. He took his
place on the portico, got everything ready, and said he was "afraid to look for fear the boys
would be disappointed." Frank said he "would like to look," and so, as he had been the most
anxious to have the telescope made, his father gave him the first chance to be glad or sorry.
After moving the box and the tube a little all kept silent, but soon Frank began a louder "Oo-oo-oo!"
than before, and, much excited, exclaimed: "I see 'em: four red bright little fellows, all
in a straight line," and then he ran as if half crazy, shouting, to his mother: "We got 'em,
mother, all four of 'em! I wouldn't swap our telescope for any other. Come and see!"

The parson too was much delighted. As he happened to look at the other side of the box, he
was amused to find that he had mounted his telescope on a "Eureka Soap" box. In a few days
he made an upright standard, into which he bolted the telescope just tight enough to hold it,
but let it move freely. A common screw becomes too loose in a little while. The instrument
cost the parson only forty cents for the tubes; the glasses were given, but ought not to cost
more than a dollar or two. If a one-inch eyeglass can not be had, a two-inch eyeglass will
answer quite well. The reason for having two tubes is that eyes differ, and that what is bought
for a thirty-six inch glass may be an inch or two more or less than that, so that the smaller
tube must be moved back and forth till the eye finds where the view is plainest. This instrument
shows the moon beautifully. You read of the circular mountains and the extinct volcanoes; here
you see them. It is especially delightful to see in the new moon the light breaking over the
mountain-tops and through the notches while all the plain behind is yet in the dark. Though
it is now a good while since the parson made the telescope, he waits impatiently every month
for the new moon to come again.

THE MAGIC BOTTLE.

There are few persons who have not been puzzled, when witnessing the exhibitions of conjurers
and performers of feats of legerdemain, by the magic bottle, out of the neck of which the exhibitor
can pour any one of quite a number of liquids at his will. It may interest the reader to see
an explanation of the means by which the apparently magical effect is produced, especially
as it involves an explanation of a certain philosophical principle which it is very useful
for all to understand.

The pressure of the atmosphere all around us is so great that no liquid can issue against it
from a close vessel, unless air is at the same time admitted to balance the external pressure
by an internal one of the same amount. In the case of pouring water from a bottle the mouth
of which is tolerably large, the air passes in in large bubbles as the water comes out, producing
the gurgling sound always heard in such a case.

Where the orifice is too small to allow of the admission of these bubbles of air, the liquid
will only flow out as fast as the air is allowed to enter in some other way, as shown in the
engraving, where the water will not issue from the lower end of the tube except when the finger
is raised from the upper end so as to admit the air.

There are various ingenious contrivances by means of which curious effects are produced through
the operation of this principle. One, called the magic tunnel, is made double, with a space
inclosed between the walls. There is an orifice communicating with this chamber at the top
of the handle, which orifice is so situated that it can be opened or closed at pleasure by
the thumb of the person holding it without attracting the attention of the spectator. Now if
the body of the tunnel is filled, or partly filled, with pure water, while the hidden chamber
contains a liquid deeply colored--with cochineal, for example--the person holding it can cause
pure water to flow from it by keeping the orifice in the handle closed by his thumb, or colored
water by simply raising his thumb and allowing the liquid in the concealed chamber to flow
out and mingle with the clear water as it issues from the tube below.

The magic bottle acts on the same principle, though presenting it in another form. The bottle
is usually made of tin, though colored on the outer surface to represent glass. Within, it
contains several different receptacles, as shown in Fig. 1, each communicating by a separate
pipe with the mouth of the bottle. Each of these receptacles is also provided with another
tube, by which air may be admitted so as to allow the liquid contained in it to flow. These
air tubes open by orifices in the side of the bottle, as shown in Fig. 2, which are covered
and concealed by the thumb and the ends of the fingers of the operator, and may be kept closed
or may be slightly opened at pleasure. By this means any one of five different liquids may
be poured from the mouth of the bottle.

Of course it requires some dexterity to manipulate such an apparatus skillfully, in order to
keep all the holes concealed from the spectators, and to open the right one, just enough to
admit the air, and at the right time. The point of interest, however, for the general reader
in the whole subject is the philosophical principle which is involved, namely, that the pressure
of the atmosphere in every direction all around us is such that no liquid can issue from any
orifice against the force of it acting from without inward, unless by the admission of air
or the providing by some other means of an equal force to act from within outward as a counterpoise.

TWO WAYS OF PUTTING IT.

  The Sultan awoke with a stifled scream:
  His nerves were shocked by a fearful dream:

  An omen of terrible import and doubt--
  His teeth in one moment all fell out.

  His wisemen assembled at break of day,
  And stood by the throne in solemn array.

  And when the terrible dream was told,
  Each felt a shudder, his blood ran cold,

  And all stood silent, in fear and dread,
  And wondering what was best to be said.

  At length an old soothsayer, wrinkled and gray,
  Cried, "Pardon, my lord, what I have to say;

  "'Tis an omen of sorrow sent from on high:
  Thou shalt see all thy kindred die."

  Wroth was the Sultan; he gnashed his teeth,
  And his very words seemed to hiss and seethe,

  As he ordered the Wiseman bound with chains,
  And gave him a hundred stripes for his pains.

  The wisemen shook as the Sultan's eye
  Swept round to see who next would try;

  But one of them, stepping before the throne,
  Exclaimed, in a loud and joyous tone:

  "Exult, O head of a happy state!
  Rejoice, O heir of a glorious fate!

  "For this is the favor thou shalt win,
  O Sultan--to outlive all thy kin!"

  Pleased was the Sultan, and called a slave,
  And a hundred crowns to the wiseman gave.

  But the courtiers they nod, with grave, sly winks,
  And each one whispers what each one thinks,

  "Well can the Sultan reward and blame:
  Didn't both of the wisemen foretell the same?"

  Quoth the crafty old Vizier, shaking his head,
  "So much may depend on the way a thing's said!"

To our Young Friends:

As we can not expect to receive letters from you until you have been notified of the existence
of our Post-office Box, we open the correspondence by writing to you, and asking you to think
of us in the future. We should like to hear from you upon any subject which may interest you.
If you have any questions to ask regarding your studies or your reading, we shall take great
pleasure in advising you; or should you desire any information which you can not obtain from
books within your reach, we will do our best to aid you. We shall also be glad to hear about
your sports, your pets, or about any curious thing in nature which may come under your observation.

You must bear in mind that your communications must be very brief, because there are so many
of you that we can not give a great deal of space to any one. We will endeavor to be kind and
attentive to each and all alike.

It is very easy in these times to send letters in Uncle Sam's big mail-bag; and when you write
on your neat, delicate note-paper, and put the pretty postage-stamp on the right-hand corner
of the envelope, perhaps you never think of the way your great-grandparents went to work when
they wanted to send a letter. First they took a very large square sheet of coarse blue paper,
or, if they were young ladies and fancy-minded, one with a bright tint of pink or yellow. As
postage was high, when they had written the pages full, straight across, they would turn the
sheet sideways, and write at right angles to the other lines, and then corner-wise, perhaps,
with a different-colored ink. There were no envelopes in those days, and the sheets had to
be ingeniously folded, so that no curious postmaster could pry into family secrets. There was
always a portion of the last page left blank, to form the outside of the letter, which, after
being folded and directed, was sealed with a big red wafer. It was then ready to be started
off the next time the stage-coach came through the town, for there were no railroads in those
days, and often the mail-bag was carried miles and miles on horseback through wild regions
where now the steam-engine whirls along with its long train of cars.

It was not necessary in those days to prepay the postage, which was much dearer than it is
now. There were no postage-stamps, and big figures were written or stamped on the outside of
the letter to denote the cost of transportation. In those times it often took weeks to send
a letter to places where now only a day is required.

Do any of you know the name of the man who first thought of the great benefit cheap postage
would be to the world, and can you tell something about the great work he accomplished in that
direction, and when and where he died?

Our Post-office Box is now open for your contributions, which we trust will be neatly and correctly
written, because an editor's eyes have a great deal of important work to do, and ought not
to be employed in deciphering illegible writing.

Trusting that our acquaintance may be pleasant and lasting, the editor bids you welcome to
the pages of HARPER'S YOUNG PEOPLE.

A Boy who is not fond of fun and frolic may possibly make a tolerable man, but he is an intolerable
boy.

       *       *       *       *       *

An Irish lover remarked that it is a great pleasure to be alone, "especially whin yer swateheart
is wid ye."

       *       *       *       *       *

If a man's horses should lose their tails, why should he sell them wholesale?--Because he can't
retail them.

       *       *       *       *       *

"I'd just like to see you," said a blind man to a policeman who told him he would lock him
up if he didn't move on.

       *       *       *       *       *

A little girl of four years was recently called as a witness in a police court, and in answer
to the question what became of little girls who told lies, innocently replied that they were
sent to bed.

       *       *       *       *       *

When a certain King of England visited Scotland, many years ago, the following conversation
took place between two countrymen:

SANDY. "Weel, Jock, hae ye seen the king?"

JOCK. "Oh ay, I hae seen the king; but I wadna gang the length o' the street to see him again.
He's just made like ony ither mon, an' they tell't me his arms were a lion an' a unicorn."

       *       *       *       *       *

A QUANDARY.--If a boy should catch hold of your ear, and ask if he had the wrong pig by the
ear, would you answer yes or no?

       *       *       *       *       *

A MELANCHOLY CASE OF SUICIDE.--A naughty little boy, having been threatened with a whipping,
immediately hung his head.

       *       *       *       *       *

A little girl being asked by her grandfather where cotton grew, replied, with the greatest
simplicity, "In old gentlemen's ears."

       *       *       *       *       *

A man who lisped, having bought some pigs, asked a neighbor for the use of a pen for a few
days. Said he: "I have jutht been purchathing thome thwine--two thowth and pigth. I want to
put them in your pen till I can fix a plaith for them." "Two thousand pigs!" exclaimed the
astonished neighbor; "why, my pen will hardly hold a dozen!" "You don't underthtand me, Mr.
Bent. I don't thay two thouthand pigth, but two thowth and pigth!" "I hear you," said Mr. Bent;
"two thousand pigs! Why, you must be crazy." "I tell you again," exclaimed the man, angrily,
"I mean not two thouthand pigth, but two thowth and two pigth!" "Oh, that is what you mean,
eh? Well, the pen is at your service."

       *       *       *       *       *

LETTER PUZZLE.

  First in long, but not in short;
  Second in hop, but not in malt;
  Third in Ellen, also in Anne;
  Fourth in wagon, not in van;
  Fifth in fun, but not in sport;
  Sixth in teach, but not in taught;
  Seventh in ale, but not in stout;
  Eighth in bawl, but not in shout;
  Ninth in mould, but not in sand;
  Tenth in water, but not in land.
  In these rhymes there may be found
  A living poet much renowned.

       *       *       *       *       *

What is it that always has some hitch about it?--A harness.

Which is the most contemptuous bird?--The owl; he hoots at everything.

GYMNASTIC EXERCISES.

Pole-Leaping.--The pole which is used for this exercise should be of sound ash, rounded throughout
its length, which should be in proportion to the height of the jumper and the space to be jumped
over. It is advisable to practice this kind of jumping at first without a run. For this purpose
he who is about to jump fixes the end of the pole in the ground in front of him, at a distance
which may be gradually increased with the efforts of the jumper; then he seizes the pole with
his two hands--the top one a little above his head, and the lower one a little above the level
of his hips. He springs off equally with both feet, throwing most of his weight upon his arms,
and pushing himself forward as far as possible by bearing on the pole, which he then slackens,
and falls to the ground, trying to alight as softly as possible. If he fall on his heels, all
the body receives a great shock; the brain strikes against the bones which surround it, which
may often result in injuries to the head. If he fall too much on his toes, he may, perhaps,
sprain them. It is necessary, then, to contrive so as to fall on the sole or ball of the foot,
and only to let the heel touch the ground afterward.

In order to jump over a space with a run, he places himself at a certain distance from the
space over which he is to leap, and after having seized the pole with his right hand a little
above his head (the thumb in the air), and with his left hand a little above his thighs (the
thumb downward), he starts forward, holding the lower end of the pole in front of him. Arrived
at the edge of the ditch, or whatever it may be, over which he is to leap, he sticks the pole
in the ground before him, then, by sudden and active effort, he raises his body, bearing his
hands on the pole in such a manner as to turn it from the right-hand side to the left, and
leaps the space, the body being nearly in a horizontal position; he then reaches the ground
by bending the joints of the legs. He should at first practice at short distances.

Indian Clubs.--The exercises with the Indian clubs are of a more recent date than those with
dumb-bells. They were introduced into Europe by a military officer, who had seen the Persians
exercise with them. These exercises are performed alternately with the two hands, and sometimes
simultaneously, with two instruments of a massive conical form, which in Persia are called
nulo, and in India mugdaughs. They are very useful for increasing the muscular power of the
arms and shoulders, opening the chest, and strengthening the hands and wrists. They have also
the advantage of rendering the player with them ambidextrous, or two-handed; that is to say,
of making the left hand as able and vigorous as the right, and enabling him to use one as readily
as the other. As instruments of exercise they are as fitted for women and girls as for men
and boys. Gracefully used, they give a good carriage and deportment, not always obtained by
other means. Dumb-bell practice should precede the use of the Indian clubs. In beginning with
the latter, take off your coat and cravat, loosen your braces and waistcoat, and put on a belt.

The most simple exercises with the Indian clubs consist in carrying them to the shoulder, sometimes
with the right arm, sometimes with the left--in carrying the club before and behind, to the
left and to the right. In the more difficult exercises you move the clubs alternately around
the body, seizing them at first by the hand, and holding them parallel to the legs, the arms
held down without stiffness, the clubs in a straight line with them. Then raise the right club,
without the slightest jerk, in front and near to the body in the direction of the left shoulder,
until the forearm passes the head, the club always remaining vertical. Then continue to pass
the club behind the body, bringing it toward the right shoulder, and letting it gradually descend
to the ground. The same movement is repeated with the left club, by commencing to raise it
toward the right shoulder, and so on continually. Practice all the movements slowly; but when
you have once familiarized yourself with the exercises you may execute them more quickly, always
taking care that one club descends while the other ascends.