Psychology is not interested either in dead bodies or in disembodied spirits, but in living
and acting individuals.

One word more, on the psychological point of view. In everyday life we study our acquaintances
and their actions from a personal standpoint. That is, we evaluate their behavior according
as it affects ourselves, or, perhaps, according as it squares or not with our standards of
right and wrong. We always find something to praise or blame. Now, the psychologist has no
concern with praise and blame, but is a seeker after the facts. He would know and understand
human actions, rather than pass judgment on them. When, for example, he is introduced into
the school or children's court, for the purpose of examining children that are "problems",
his attitude differs considerably from that of the {18} teacher or officer of the law; for
while they almost inevitably pass judgment on the child in the way of praise or blame, the
psychologist simply tries to understand the child. The young delinquent brought into the laboratory
of the court psychologist quickly senses the unwonted atmosphere, where he is neither scolded
nor exhorted, but asked to lend his coöperation in an effort to discover the cause why his
conduct is as it is. Now, this psychological attitude is not necessarily "better" than the
other, but it is distinctly valuable in its place, as seen from the fact that the young delinquent
often does coöperate. He feels that if the psychologist can find out what is the trouble with
him, this may help. Nothing, indeed, is more probable; it is when we have the facts and trace
out cause and effect that we are in a fair way to do good. Nothing is more humane than psychology,
in the long run, even though the psychologist may seem unfeeling in the course of his investigation.

To the psychologist, conduct is a matter of cause and effect, of natural law. His business
is to know the laws of that part of nature which we call human nature, and to use these laws,
as fast as discovered, for solving the problems presented by the human individual or group.
For him, even the most capricious conduct has its causes, even the most inexplicable has its
explanation--if only the cause can be unearthed, which he does not pretend he can always actually
accomplish, since causes in the mental realm are often very complex. No one can be a psychologist
all of the time; no one can or should always maintain this matter-of-fact attitude towards
self and neighbor. But some experience with the psychological attitude is of practical value
to any one, in giving clearer insight, more toleration, better control, and even saner standards
of living.

{19}

EXERCISES

1. Outline the chapter. A sample outline of the briefer sort is
   here given:

A. Subject-matter of psychology: mental activities.

  (1) A sub-class under vital activities.

  (2) Activities of individuals, as distinguished from

    (a) Activities of social groups (sociology).

    (b) Activities of single organs (physiology).

 (3) Either conscious, or closely related to conscious activities.

 (4) May be activities of human or animal, adult or child,
     normal or abnormal individuals.

B. Problems of psychology:

 (1) How individuals differ in their mental activities.

 (2) How individuals are alike in their mental activities.

 (3) Practical applications of either (1) or (2).

C. Methods of psychology:

 (1) Methods of observing mental activities.

   (a) Introspective, the observing by an individual of his own actions.

   (b) Objective, the observation of the behavior of other individuals.

 (2) General lines of attack upon psychological problems.

   (a) Experimental: vary the conditions and see how the mental
       activity changes.

   (b) Comparative: test different individuals or
       classes and see how mental activity differs, etc.

   (c) Genetic: trace mental development.

   (d) Pathological: examine mental decay or disturbance.

2. Formulate a psychological question regarding each of the following:
   hours of work, genius, crime, baseball.

3. Distinguish introspection from theorizing.

4. What different sorts of objective fact can be observed in psychology?

5. What is the difference between the physiology of hearing and the
   psychology of hearing?

6. State two reasons why it would be undesirable to limit psychology
   to the introspective study of consciousness.

{20}

7. What is the difference between an experiment and a test, (a) in
   purpose, (b) in method?

8. Compare the time it takes you to add twenty one-place numbers,
   arranged in a vertical column, and arranged in a horizontal line,
   (a) Is this introspective or objective observation? Why so? (b) Is
   it a test or an experiment? Why?

9. Write a psychological sketch of some one you know well, taking
   care to avoid praise and blame, and to stick to the psychological
   point of view.

REFERENCES

Some of the good books on the different branches of psychology are the following:

On animal psychology:

  Margaret F. Washburn, The Animal Mind, 2nd edition, 1917.

  John B. Watson, Behavior, 1914.

On child psychology:

  Norsworthy and Whitley, The Psychology of Childhood, 1918.

On abnormal psychology:

  A. J. Rosanoff, Manual of Psychiatry, 5th edition, 1920.

On applied psychology:

  Hollingworth and Poffenberger, Applied Psychology, 1917.

On individual psychology, parts of:

  E. L. Thorndike, Educational Psychology, Briefer Course, 1914,

  Daniel Starch, Educational Psychology, 1919.

{21}

CHAPTER II

REACTIONS

REFLEXES AND OTHER ELEMENTARY FORMS OF REACTION, AND HOW THE NERVES OPERATE IN CARRYING THEM OUT

Having the field of psychology open before us, the next question is, where to commence operations.
Shall we begin with memory, imagination and reasoning, or with will, character and personality,
or with motor activity and skill, or with feelings and emotions, or with sensation and perceptions?
Probably the higher forms of mental activity seem most attractive, but we may best leave complicated
matters till later, and agree to start with the simplest sorts of mental performance. Thus
we may hope to learn at the outset certain elementary facts which will later prove of much
assistance in unraveling the more complex processes.

Among the simplest processes are sensations and reflexes, and we might begin with either. The
introspective psychologists usually start with sensations, because their great object is to
describe consciousness, and they think of sensations as the chief elements of which consciousness
is composed. The behaviorists would prefer to start with reflexes, because they conceive of
behavior as composed of these simple motor reactions.

Without caring to attach ourselves exclusively to either introspectionism or behaviorism, we
may take our cue just here from the behaviorists, because we shall find the facts of motor
reaction more widely useful in our further studies than the facts of sensation, and because
the facts of  {22} sensation fit better into the general scheme of reactions than the facts
of reaction fit into any general scheme based on sensation.

A reaction is a response to a stimulus. The response, in the simplest cases, is a muscular
movement, and is called a "motor response". The stimulus is any force or agent that, acting
upon the individual, arouses a response.

If I start at a sudden noise, the noise is the stimulus, and the forcible contraction of my
muscles is the response. If my old friend's picture brings tears to my eyes, the picture (or
the light reflected from it) is the stimulus, and the flow of tears is the response, here a
"glandular" instead of a motor response.

The Reaction Time Experiment

