2. After William Wallace had been surprised and taken, he was brought to London, and lodged,
it is said, in a part of what is now known as Fenchurch Street. There is a reader and correspondent
of yours, who, I am assured, can point out the site of this house, or whatever it was. Will
he kindly assist archæological inquirers, by informing us whereabouts it stood?

W.(I.)

Obeism.--Can any of your readers give me some information about obeism? I am anxious to know
whether it is in itself a religion, or merely a rite practised in some religion in Africa,
and imported thence to the West Indies (where, I am told, it is rapidly gaining ground again);
and whether the obeist obtains the immense power he is said to possess over his brother negroes
by any acquired art, or simply by working upon the more superstitious {60} minds of his companions.
Any information, however, on the subject will be acceptable.

T.H.

Mincing Lane, Jan. 10. 1851.

Aged Monks.--Ingulphus (apud Wharton, Anglia Sacra, 613.) speaks of five monks of Croyland
Abbey, who lived in the tenth century, the oldest of whom, he says, attained the age of one
hundred and sixty-eight years: his name was Clarembaldus. The youngest, named Thurgar, died
at the premature age of one hundred and fifteen. Can any of your correspondents inform me of
any similar instance of longevity being recorded in monkish chronicles? I remember reading
of some old English monks who died at a greater age than brother Thurgar, but omitted to "make
a note of it" at the time, and should now be glad to find it.

F. SOMNER MERRYWEATHER.

Gloucester Place, Kentish Town.

Lady Alice Carmichael, daughter of John first Earl of Hyndford.--John second Lord Carmichael
succeeded his grandfather in 1672. He was born 28th February, 1638, and married, 9th October,
1669, Beatrice Drummond, second daughter of David third Lord Maderty, by whom he had seven
sons and four daughters. He was created Earl of Hyndford in 1701, and died in 1710.

I wish to be informed (if any of the obliging readers of your valuable publication can refer
me to the authority) what became of Alice, who is named among the daughters of this earl in
one of the early Scottish Peerages (anterior probably to that of Crawfurd, in 1716), but which
the writer of this is unable to indicate. Archibald, the youngest son, was born 15th April,
1693. The Lady Beatrice, the eldest daughter, married, in 1700, Cockburn; Mary married Montgomery;
and Anne married Maxwell. It is traditionally reported that the Lady Alice, in consequence
of her marriage with one of her father's tenants, named Biset or Bisset, gave offence to the
family, who upon that contrived to have her name omitted in all subsequent peerages. The late
Alexander Cassy, of Pentonville, who bequeathed by will several thousand pounds to found a
charity at Banff, was son of Alexander Cassy of that place, and ---- Biset, one of the daughters,
sprung from the above-named marriage.

SCOTUS.

"A Verse may find Him."--In the first stanza of Herbert's poem entitled the Church Porch, in
the Temple, the following lines occur:--

  "A verse may find him, whom a sermon flies,
  And turn delight into a sacrifice."

Which contain, evidently, the same idea as the one enunciated in the subsequent ones quoted
by Wordsworth (I believe) as a motto prefixed to his ecclesiastical sonnets, without an author
assigned:--

  "A verse may catch a wandering soul that flies
  More powerful tracts: and by a blest surprise
  Convert delight into a sacrifice."

Query, Who was the author of them?

R.W.E.

Hull.

Daresbury, the White Chapel of England.--Sometime ago I copied the following from a local print:--

    "'Nixon's Prophecy.--When a fox without cubs shall sit in the White
    Chapel of England, then men shall travel to Paris without horses, and
    kings shall run away and leave their crowns.