We loved wild horse riding but we got so beastly full of lice that we quit. We have caught
lice several times from the tourists, and tenderfeet but could always get rid of them other
places by the cowboy method--At night take off your shirt turn it inside out spread it over
an ant-hill, and in the morning the ants have all you company preserved for the coming winter.

The cowboys are a clean lot of brave loyal lads. They carry guns--but not as is supposed to
use on one-another--but to shoot wild horses which they are riding--suppose your foot gets
fastened in a stirrup and your are thrown, you will not go far till you are dragged to death.
this is where the Gun does its intended work.

I have had to take my hat and strike the top of the water to drive the bugs down so I could
drink without swallowing bugs, I used to cook and thought nothing of taking my water from a
slough where several carcasses of cows wrere putrying. Sometimes I ran short of Soda then I
would use the ashes of Buffalo chips for Soda. All this is as harmless to health; as eating
asparagrass grown in a manure pile.

Well life grew monotnous, each succeeding year brought but old time haunts and the accostomed
experiences. So as we sat at midnight in Portland Oregon in a grand ball room indulging in
our only bad habit--smoking, simultaneously The Coyote Kidd and Myself proposed--to the gang
let us go up to Alaska" To this we all shook hands.

Off for New Fields of Adventure--Going to Faraway Alaska

We went direct to the Little horn river Montanna and sold our Horses to the Crow Agency. Went
to Deadwood S. Dak. picked up our Old Dog "Chum." and some other property went back to Billings
Montana settled up our Business and went to Seattle Wash.

In Seattle we fitted out for a three year expedition.

And on the 20th day of April at 2 P.M. we shipped out of the Harbor on the Old James Dollar--She
was agood old ship built in South America made of meteec--.; but had her back broken while
being launched Was patched up and yet hardly fit for rough seas.

Our first four days were very pleasant till we struck Millbank sound There we were hit with
a heavy sea on our starboard-beam. The old ship would leap almost out of the ocean and then
fall back like a wounded duck. she would flounder, pitch, rool and dive come to the surface
and wipe off the brine slick as a mole. I felt a little disturbed in the locality of my abdomen,
also my appetite failed me for a few days; I was standing one morning on deck by the hand rail
just leaning over for convenience--near by stood an Irishman spewing in the sea, a sailor came
allong and said to the Irishman" You seem to have a weak stomache." "I don't know" Said the
Irishman" I think I can throw it as far as the next one" Over that same rail engaged at the
same pass-time was a young lady, leaning on the arm of her old Dad Between times she repeated"

  I'me a fathers only daughter,
  Casting bread upon the water,
  In a way I hadent oter,
    I guess yes.
  Casting it like rain,
  Into the troubled main,
  Hoping this sour bread
  will not return again"

We landed in Skagway on the fifth day of May. Now there were no docks in Skagway at that time;
so we were unloaded by lighters and run up where the water was about three feet deep, there
we had to get on a man's back and be carried ashore. We were charged two dollars for the lighters
and two dollars for the man craft, so it cost each of us four dollars to land after we had landed.

We arose early the following morning in another world. We knew the wild parts of the States
and the beasts and the men, the lay of the cities, the course of thousands of the important
rivers The climate, snow fall, cyclones and all other important things to know when your life
is an outdoor life; but here we were in a new untried world. One of my failures is when I see
a mountain to wish to know how the land lays on the other side, naturally given to adventure
I had indulged, and it grew very rapidly upon me, till it got beyond my controll, so I was
delighted to discover new fields.

After proper preparations we set out for White horse. After a few days we arrived at the Chilkoot
Pass. The Chilkoot Pass, is a high pass about a mile high and steep as a house roof. And is
also subject to very heavy snowslides. It was here where a short time before 148 soldiers in
the British Army were all burried forever without any Sky-Pilot or Undertaker's assistance.
We crossed through Jacobs Ladder where were six-hundred steps cut into the solid ice. There
were several Men known as packers who lived at the foot of the ladder, they packed over loads
for 45cts per lb. they wore spurs on the bottom of their moccasins; we were not tenderfeet,
but used to the heaviest kinds of packing and you should have seen those sharks look with disdain
on us when we made the pass carrying twice as many pounds up as they could. On this Trip I
had The Coyote Kidd, The Galloping Swede, Taxas Tom. and Old Ed Scott. Four just as good men
as I had had the pleasure of meeting during twelve years of rough life. And I was pretty sound
then--my eyes were keen, my hearing alert my aim acurate, not like I am at this writing.

On the top of this Pass I had my last opportunity of buying a piece of mince pie which I never
neglect--but this piece cost me a Pan or one dollar. The other fellows took lemonade paying
the same price per glass. I had hunted all kinds of game, common or uncommon in the Western
Hemisphere. had led the most daring and dangerous kind of a life, but little did I realize
the tiresome dedious and indiscribable journey that now lay before me.

As we crossed Chilkoot pass and descended through the long indentations leading northward and
eastward amid snow ice and severe weather Old Texas Tom. The terror of the West, the old steel
man as he was often called grew tired for the first time since our acquaintance. Together we
rode the great roundup, together we had braved danger hard-ships scores of times, at every
other event he was cool faithful and ever on the spot; but now he sickened from fatigue to
a terrorable back ache and head ache. That night he seemed to recover a little and the next
morning shouldered his load and with less of his old time vigor and lightness began the day's
journey. But about an hour later he had a relpase and we divided his load among us and he was
able to travel till noon. then we camped as he grew worse and wrapped him in our blankest made
him a good thick bed out of boughs, and fixed him up just as comfortable as possible. Four
days later in the afternoon he called me up to his bed and began to talk about sunny Texas
about his dear old mother his sweet young sister and his boyhood days. I tried to encourage
him I told him he would soon get well and that he had only a bad cold--but he smiled and said
he was not long for this world. He said this feeling was strange and unearthly and he felt
the approach of death. Then he rested an hour and then called me up to him and said" Old Chief
give me a pull at your pipe--I did he lay back on my knee where he seemed to rest the easiest
gasped twice and died.

This was a hard blow on me and the other boys. The snow was deep and the ground frozen down
a great depth, so we were forced to bury Our dear old Tom in the beautiful white purified crystal
snow A purer and lovlier grave man never filled. we marked the place and summoned our courage
and left the Old Texan who was reared amid the flecy cotton, sleeping his last long sleep amid
the white flakes in far away Alaska.

We were unfamiliar with this kind of sickness but after we were experienced we knew our pard
was afflicted with Spinal Fever. This is caused by the rubbing of a heavy load on the back,
it causes perspiration then followed with fatigue the patient in weariness is constrained by
this fatighue to lie down upon the ground, and a severe cold is contracted resulting in death.
No traveler in that cold barren region should ever under any circumstances lie down upon the
naked earth. Tom and we were all used to lying on the earth and thought nothing of. ignorance
and eagerness caused his death, as it has the untimely death of many a mother's boy.

We took up our march sorrowfully and silently till we rached the Horalinqua River. Here he
halted and searched for Gold. May I add that the craze for gold lead us into this region of
ice and snow. We were unsuccessful but in our rambles we came to Pelley River and found Marten
very thick, so we concluded to trap there the next winter. We left our outfit here and began
the journey down to Dawson, we had to shoot the far famed Whitehorse rapids. there are seven
of them and they are about 3 miles long, and run like lightling, we boarded a raft were cut
loose by a half breed Mucklock and away we went almost a mile a minute riding on the crest
of the rapid rooling river. Here after the passing of the rapids we first met Swift water bill.
so named by the Sourdoughs because he would never shoot the rapids. His was a queer experience.
he dug out his fortune amid the bars of the river and then went back to Seattle and married
a daughter having three homely sisters, and his wife was twice as holely as them all. each
year following for four years he returned to Seattle and married a sister every time. and at
last having wed the last girl, he broke all rules of life and married his Motherinlaw.

In this locality we made quite a stay mining and prospecting for hunting and trapping till
the following spring. which hardly shows his face when autumn drives him off.

It was necessary for us to larn a few lessons so here we began to study. first we were taught
how to bridle a boat. this is done by tieing a rope around the nose of the boat about one third
the way aft. then we learned how to make what they call portages--that is--when you come to
falls or rapids, relieve the boat of all contents and carry contents and boat around the rapids.
Then we were taught how to know quicksand and how dangerous the Overflow is to dogs, and men
in extrems winter. an overflow is where the water bursts through the ice in the rivers and
for a few feet runs on the top. it cannot run far for it soon freezes. If you put your foot
in water or if your dogs step in water your feet and their feet would freeze in two minutes.

The next winter we built a line of camps up the Pelley river about sixty miles, and another
line up the McMillian. October 10th we began to set traps for Marten, ermine and wolf. Here
we learned that Marten were called Sable they are much larger and more valuable than the Marten
of United States Of America. In color they are dark brown and some are almost black, they feed
upon grouse and mice and never go near the water, they inhabit the cold regions and breed but
once a year. They resemble the house cat in features but have long body like a mink. We took
that winter seven hundred, the largest catch ever known to have been taken by any one gang
in the world. The weather was exceedingly cold for we were only three hundred miles from the
Arctic Circle. Spring came we broke camp and moved down to Dawson, sold our fur and drifted
down the Yukon river to the mouth of forty mile creek. Here we turned up in search of placer
mining, the short summer soon past and we returned to Dawson and fitted out for the winter.

After we chucked up we turned up toward Steward river, on this trip we met and formed the acquaintance
of Geo. MacDonald, a wide world character. At one time he came to Dawson with twenty mules
packed with gold. Three years later he died in Circle city a pauper.

Here also we first met the noted Montana Kidd--he swung his team of a dozen dogs around the
corner of the road house and shouted to the landlord" Thirteen steaks dam the cost the Kidd
always has the price" It cost him thirteen times ten dollars--or one hundred and thirty dollars;
ten for himself and one hundred and twenty for his dogs.

After another successful winter we returned to Dawson sold our furs and went first to Eagle
and chucked up and journeyed to Fort Yukon. Now Fort Yukon stands in the Arctic Circle and
the Steel registers during cold weather 65° below zero. From here we went up the Porcupine
river to Rampart Ho on the Eastern boundery of Alaska We did not like the country in this part
so we returned to Fort Yukon; and turned down the Yukon river to the Tanana river then we up
this last named stream to Fairbanks.

We reached Fairbanks in the early fall and trapped that winter on Beaver creek. having many
experiencs but none which I shall record here.--After we broke Camp we sold our fur in Fairbanks
and started for the head of Copper river. We followed this stream down till we struck Ambercunbo
canyon. Not being acquainted with the river we were into the rapids before we knew it: I shouted
to the boys to pull while I leaped for the steering oar, we got through all right but the boat
was half full of water--and all the boys pretty badly scared, it was a close shave one adventure
I do not care to repeat. We floated down to Katello; and here took a boat for Cook's inlet.
We reached Shushitna station And started up Shushitna river till we came to the mouth of the
Talketaa: here in search of trapping we failed to find the object of our search--but found
something far better a splendid Quartz mine, which averages $93.00 gold per ton of quartz.
From here we went to Seldovia and then to Dutch Harbor and on to St. Michels.

It might be well to say briefly that I had considerable exprience during my time with mining,
and was no green horn, The Kidd was a natural miner, he would stick his pick, spade or knife
into every bit of mother earth to ascertain if there was any color, we not only knew fur, beasts
and birds, reptiles, fish, insects, but we knew the earth over which we walked, on which we
slept and so contineud for sixteen years. We were full fledged Sour Doughs. We were citizens
and Claim holders.

I should also mention that I have but briefly outlined our travel, we had traveled much more
than one would naturly suppose from reading these few pages, I ought to say too that We had
become expert Dog-teamsters. And I need not say that not a man in Alaska nor an Indian could
beat us on snow shoes.

We incidently fell in with a half breed who was looking for a husband for a half sister I made
him believe I was looking for a Wife So he feel in toe. I according to his pleasure met his
sister she was a cross between an Eskomo and a Mucklock, she was a charming biddy her eyes
were sore, she was terrorably deformed having a large bone resembling a horn growing out of
her right shoulder, she was about twenty four years old. and indians at that age are as old
as white women are at fifty. if there is any beauty in Creoles, or Indians believe me it fades
before they are thirty, and leaves you a homely hag.

Well Her brother told me he had heard about me and If I would consent to wed his sister he
would tell me the road to a fortune. I saw he was smart and disclosed considerable truth and
displayed considerable inteligence of the interior. He said he would go to that place but owing
to physical inability he could not. What could a trapper from the flowery fields of the rockies,
and broad basins of the Platte now of the Snow hidden mountains ice bound rivers of Alaska
do but inmediately without consulting any parents--become engaged.

We sat down I dismissed the boys and he related to me the following "For a thousand years my
people have been kings in these parts. A Few indians have been through the interior of Alsaka
from Mt Mckinley to Point Barrow. But no white man ever was. It is well nigh impossible but
a giant like you and like your men could go if you prepare properly And have the money to chuck
up for two years. Now the fortune lies in what you could tell and what you would know and see
rather than in what you could bring back. But should you gain Point Barrow remember there is
plenty of gold.--but it can only be mined during the summer while the frost is wore out of
the ground by the sea. Now half way through this wilderness of ice, snow, and bursting glasciers
is a cave not in a valley but on a mountain above timberline. This mountain lies about ten
miles westward of you main course as you go down Dead mans gulch. you will know this gulch
by its first horrorable appearance. it makes even an indian shudder to look at it. After you
emerge from the gulch take the first indentation leading westward and by all means go to black
mountain and find the cave. Now why I wish you to find the cave is I wish you to live. the
Wether is extremely cold, you and your men will need a relief from this extreme incessant atmosphere.
this cave is of black rock and is as warm underfoot as any soap stone you ever touched. and
when once in the cave you feel warm as in an oven. Here you may recuperate patch up your clothes
and make your journey safely." I thought this was hash so parting said I would return and tell
him how I prospered. While time and weather would permit we went to Gnome and picked up Black
Dave. And purchased severel good Huskeys. sailed back to St. Michals stocked up and set out
on our trapping and hunting trip. But finding we had miss judged the lay of the land on the
western slope of Alaska we again sailed back to Gnome and then crossed overland to Candle creek.
We experienced some very hard travels in crossing the Seward Peninsula when we struck the south
west side of the Kalzetpue Sound, from there we went west to Salawak river, then to the lake
of that same name here we pitched camp and set our traps. Our game was Polar bear, Arctic Fox,
Reindeer and Sable.

Now I was used to all kind of bear except--the Polar which I am free and frank to confess is
the worst man eater on earth, not one beast of any country excepted. The Polar averages to
weigh about seven hundred pounds his build is different from any other bear, he is long and
lanky having giant legs, his color is pure white. Except at times he is yellow around the neck,
and shoulders. His food is Walrus and whale which have been killed and cast upon the ice by
tremendous storms. They breed but once a year and seldom have more than one cub. he lives exclusively
in the Arctic regions. His fur is used for rugs and robes and is worth about $150.00 per pelt.
But it is so hard get these skins to civilization that they are rare, often other bear is colored
and sold for real Polar. Between the Polar Bear and Siberian Wolves we had to watch our dogs
all night to keep them from being killed, as well as ourselves.

This country was poepled with Eskomos a sort of a cross between them and Mucklock indians.
they were very friendly to us. I could address them in their own language which pleased them
and we prospered fine. On the first day of Feb. we started back to Gnome.

And for the first time suffered total darkness by day and by night. We had enjoyed the midnight
sun, and now must suffer the mid-day dark. The thermoneter lay about seventy below zero and
the wind blew a gauger, On this trip back to Gnome I first learned what it was to neglect for
hours to wait upon Nature, owing to the suffering of even exposing you bare hand for ten seconds.
On this trip our old Chum, the playmate of Texas darling of Wyoming and the tramp of Deadwood
So. Dak. got so cold he whined and refused to go. We took him and put him in our sleeping bag.
I had taken him because he was fat and I kept him as a reserve food, rather than for actual
work. We had a great jag on our sleighs we had to draw fish to feed our dogs, fish for fuel
and lights, and with our traps, guns sleeping bags and truck we had great loads.

We reached Gnome without any serious accidents or over severe suffering sold our furs and felt
fine over our grand success.

Into the Unknown

The following summer I fell in with a Miner by the Name of Jack Freeman. he was well known
as a penetrator, He told us that up at point Barrow was all kind of shot gold. this aroused
our curiosity again and I thought of my Squaw down at St Michals. Which I felt if I went to
Point Barrow I would be obliged to wed. So we evaded the northern fever and planned to trap
again somewhere near Candle Creek.

We left Gnome in early autumn and went straight to our old camps. after our usual luck we started
in a circuitous route for Gnome. We came to the Buckland River and started up intending to
strike the mouth of the Koyukuk but missed our mark striking forty miles above the mouth we
had hard times crossing the snow-capped mountains and climbing over Glaciers breaking trails
for our dogs, fixing broken sleighs and mending worn out harnesses. tieing up stranded Snow-shoes
and facing death in many forms. Here for the first time in my life I realized I was indeed
a very reckless man. Often the boys would get cold and sleepy and I would have to make them
march at the point of old glory--my Gun--they would swear and blame every bit of hard luck
to me. I held my nerve and had good controll over my men and after a waery march reached the
Mouth of the Koyukuk and sold our furs at Rampart, Here Black Dave quit us saying he was going
back to Arizonia. Three months later we took a boat and floated down to the mouth of the Yukon
followed on to the Lake and after about fifteen days we reached Pay Creek. here we placer mined
the whole summer. and agin fell in With Jack Freeman and all planned a trip beyond the haunts
of men. We beat down the river that early autumn traded our gold-dust for food, went back to
the mouth of the Mullen River, then began our march up mullen river. Always before in my life
I had been stepping in the footsteps of some predecessor; but now I was to make tracks where
man had never been.

Before begining the Arctic Expedition I called all the men up and explained what it might mean--death
hardships were all discussed but they willingly agreed to go, in fact urged the expedition.
then I said if you loose your life your blood will be upon your own judgement and not upon
my head. If we go we shall brave all-together the severe hardships, if we loose like many others,
our funerels will be tearless, and inexpensive, If we win then each shall share a like in the
spoils. We had an elegent supply of foods.

Of Flour, Salt, sugar, rice, corn-starch, block-matches, candles, We had forty pounds of chewing
tobacco, and eighty pounds of smoking, we had six bottles of Paroxide--six bottles of Lemon-extract,
Blue ointment, Castor oil, ten Irish potatoes, and other medicines in our chest, But I wish
the reader to notice that on no trip did I ever allow one drop of liquor in any form to be
packed in my load. The worst thing for any man who is fighting cold to do; is to bowl up on
red-eye. he is only the worse for it. I was bragging one day on this when a fellow said "I
have heard this but how do you get allong when your whole crew are dam drunkards except the
Kidd. Well I said I cannot keep them from it in town; but Black Beaver can keep it off the
sleigh and when men are where it cannot be secured they do not drink.

And further I argued that I never tasted intoxicants. That The Kidd Tom Bardine and Old Ed
Scott were also tetotalers--so the only chance he had for argument was that Black Dave, And
a few other lads from Alaska were the only drinkers I ever had.

In addition to our rations we had a great deal of dried fish for our dogs, we had severel candle
fish for lights, and a large quantity of dried fish for fuel.

Early in September We started out for Point Barrow through the interior overland where to my
present knowledge man has never traveled. After we reached the head of Mullen river we started
up the Arctic divide; and on fifteenth day of October we gained the top of the divide. This
was many miles north of the Arctic Circle.

Now I had looked upon many charming scenes in my wild and wandering life; but while standing
on the ridge of this great divide which seems to separate the green world and the land of sunshine
and birds and flowers from the land of almost intolerable cold crisp snow, giant Iceburgs glaciers
and snow-slides--I saw the fairest sight I had ever looked upon. Far westward the dying sun
was painting the lofty snow-capped mountains, Northward the borrowed beams were shimering on
the polar ice-bergs, in the Arctic Sea, Eastward were the last broken prongs of the defiant
mountains known to the world as the rockies; and southward in all its modest beauty lay the
mammoth valley of earths greatest river the Yukon. I bid farwell to the known world and sang
the old old song--"In far away Alaska, where the Yukon river flows"

And then started down the great Arctic slope into the black bosom of the north. As we waved
our hands in parting at southern civilization we hailed with a new delight the mystic and unruly
regions of the north. The first day of our descent the weather lost controll of its furious
temper, and how things did hum, Cyclones in Iowa and Colorado, Blizzards in Newbraska and the
Dakotas, all which have raged for a thousand years melted into one could not furnish the momentum
nor terror of this storm for a second.

We camped under the shelter of a great glacier on top of the south side and there let the weather
howl, When the weather abated we took up the march in earnest with all our vigor and after
several days we came to a branch of a river--which we have since found out was called by the
indians coa-ville river. you could tell that at certain seasons water ran down here, it was
by no means a river in the sense of rivers such as they appear in other countries even in the
dead of winter. We followed in this water trail about forty miles till we came to a pair of
great glaciers which met in the center of the river then we were forced to go back and circle
around them which took us two days. When we were again back on the bed of the river and had
got along safely for about ten miles suddenly our back sled broke through the ice, and was
caught by a mighty current and hurled under the ice--quicker than you could say Jack Rabbit.
On this sled was most of our flour--this was ill luck we then named the Stream Lost flour river.
Still we continued to go toward the north, the days grew short about three hours of daylight
every twentyfour hours. So we had to use what is known as The "Arctic Bug" A tin can with a
candle stuck in one side and lighted. Night after night we were surrounded by Siberian Wolves
they hungred for our flesh. It was so cold that We had to sleep in our Reindeer sleeping bags
through the night--so occasionally we would have to unlace our bags and smoke up the wolves
and then depend upon a little rest till they got too fresh again.

Our dogs stood the trip well we fed them once a day gave them a single fish each evening after
the days work was done, it is always best to feed in the evening the Husky or Malimouth is
a very ferocious dog and if you do not keep them hungry they get lazy and will not mind but
will defy you. many a dog-teamseer has accidently fallen down near his team while breaking
trail and been eaten up. if you fall down they will jump on you like a lion. It is spectacular
to see us feed them we remove the muzzle and harness take our gun in one hand unlock the fish
box and call the dogs by name one by one at the same time throwing a fish at the one we mention,
they will catch their fish like old Cy Young would a league ball even if it goes much higher
than you intended they will climb the sky for fish. The Work dog is a great asset to the travelers
in that region. a good team will travel over a broken trail seventy five miles a day. it is
a very pretty sight to see a well trained team travel. These dogs can pull a load weighing
from one hundred to two hundred pounds according to the road and hills. Examine our big team
two of which we had with us on this famous journey. Each day brought its new dangers and difficulties,
each night had its terrors the inevitable howl of the wolves, the sneaking glacier bears, the
extreme cold, the brilliant glow of the Aurora Borealis Which hissed high over our heads and
shot like lightling in varigated rays, in sound resembling a turkey gobbler unfolding his wings.
I cannot go into all the details of this trip into the unknown it was up and down glaciers,
following often in the path where just recently a great snowslide traveled, carrying hundreds
of tons of snow and ice and breaking and crashing like a ruined world. The snow slide is the
greatest of all dangers in this region, I have seen as many as five all at one time, some are
known as annuals or old faithfulls, others are known as untimely, and treacherous. many an
Alaskan lies burried in valleys hundreds of feet below the surface in mountains of snow. I
have always escaped the snow slide, I always test the snow as I go. If I get on a slope where
Snowslides are frequent I prod deep into the snow to ascertain its actual depth, where the
snow is thick it is most apt to slide. The cry is keep close to the rocks and you are safe.
After many days of severe suffering and fighting cold we came to a perpendicular ridge of ice
which we discovered was a long ridge, there seemed to be no way around so we prepared to let
over each other. It was about one hundred feet down to the ice. I was the first to test the
ropes, then one by one the dogs, sleighs, guns and all was over except the last man. we had
provided for him, the rope was fastened under a huge piece of ice; and after he slid down we
all pulled on the rope it brought cake and all over.

