Sophistry suggested that it might be the missing girl, Esmay, and certainly she who had walked
here was the veiled woman of the temple worshippers; there were the footprints, broader and
heavier in appearance, of her companion, and the halting progress of the black-chapped ruffian,
who had accompanied them, was also plainly visible. Constans followed the trail at a smart
pace, for it was snowing harder than ever, and it would not take long to obliterate the marks.
But three blocks farther on the three sets of footprints suddenly turned at right angles to
the sidewalk and disappeared.

A mystery whose solution should have been apparent at once from the wheel-tracks parallel with
the curb, but for a minute or two Constans did not realize their true nature. The ordinary
vehicle in use among the House People was a springless cart, whose wheels were simply sections
of an elm-tree butt, and these primitive constructions creaked horribly upon their axles, unless
liberally greased, and left a track six inches or more in width. It is not surprising, then,
that Constans was momentarily puzzled by the narrow, delicately lined marks that betokened
the passage of a real carriage. For while Doom contained many examples of the ancient coach-builder's
skill, they were not in general use. The old Dom Gillian occasionally employed a carriage in
taking the air--at least, so Ulick had told him, but Constans had never seen it. For all that
the check was but a momentary one; his wits had been sharpened by use, and now they helped
him to the truth. He ran on at top speed.

A course of a mile or more and he was entering a poorer part of the city a little north of
east and close to the shore of the Lesser river. It was a region of tenement dwellings, a huddle
of nondescript buildings, flanked by huge factories and sprawling coal and lumber yards--an
unpromising region, surely, in which to look for Master Quinton Edge's particular retreat.
And yet it would have marked the subtlety of the man to have set his secret here, where it
would have been at once so easily seen and overlooked. Every labyrinth has its clew, but the
fugitive walks safely in a crowd.

The wheel-tracks turned sharply to the right, going straight down a side street to the river-front.
On the left were the ruins of one of the ancient plants for the manufacture of illuminating
gas. The yard was but a wilderness of rusty iron tanks and fallen bricks; surely there was
nothing here to interest.

On the right, however, there was an enclosed area that comprised the greater part of the block.
It was separated from the highway by a brick wall ten feet in height, and the general level
of the ground was considerably higher than that of the street. Constans could see trees growing
and the ruins of a pergola and trellises for fruit; it actually looked like a garden, and through
the naked branches of the trees there gleamed the white stuccoed walls of a dwelling-house,
with a flat roof, surmounted by a cupola. The estate, for it possessed certain pretensions
to that title, looked as though it had been transported from some more favored region and set
down all in a piece among these hideous iron tanks and dingy, cliff-like factories.

Constans quickened his pace; his imagination was on fire. Yes, there was a gateway, and surely
the carriage had passed through but a few minutes before. Constans halted at the barrier and
studied it attentively. It was snowing hard now, and he ran but small risk of being observed
from the house.

The doors of the driveway were of heavy planking studded with innumerable bands and rivets,
and they were suspended between massive brick piers. A structure of light open iron-work spanned
the gateway and supported a central lantern, with a coat of arms immediately below it. The
device upon the shield was three roundels in chief and the crest, an arm holding a hammer.

In the left wing of the gate proper a small door had been cut for pedestrian use. It had been
painted a dark green, the knocker and door-plate being of brass. Constans by dint of rubbing
away some of the verdigris succeeded in making out the inscription. It read:

      ARCADIA HOUSE
    RICHARD VAN DUYNE
         1803

Actuated by a daring impulse he lifted the knocker and let it fall. The rat-tat sounded hollowly,
but there was no response. Constans looked longingly at the wall, but without some special
appliance, such as a notched pole or grappling-hooks, it was unscalable. There were no signs
of life to be seen in or about the house. Not a light in any of the windows or curl of smoke
from a chimney-pot. The wheel-tracks leading through the gateway had already become obliterated
by the rapidly falling snow; the silence was profound. The whole adventure seemed to be vanishing
into thin air; the wheel-tracks having led him into this land of folly had disappeared after
the accustomed fashion of those mocking spirits whose delight is in leading the unwary traveller
astray. Involuntarily, Constans glanced over his shoulder; he almost expected to see some shadowy
bulk stealing up behind him preparing to make its spring.

Yet as he retraced his steps to the temple of the Shining One he resolved that he would pay
another visit to Arcadia House. "To-morrow," thought Constans, "I may find some one to answer
the door."

XV

A MAN AND A MAID

In spite of that brave "to-morrow," it was several days before Constans found opportunity to
revisit Arcadia House. A misstep upon an icy flag-stone had resulted in a sprained ankle, and
for that there was no remedy but patience.

Yet the time was not wasted. Here was a fascinating problem to be solved, and, yielding to
importunity, Prosper was finally induced to talk freely of the sacred mysteries of the Shining
One. He was even persuaded to put the machinery in operation, outside the canonical hours,
in order that Constans might test the theories derived from his books. One experiment interested
them greatly.

Constans took a "live" wire and allowed its free end to hang in close proximity to a leaden
water-pipe. Then he placed a piece of oily rag near by and saw it answer his expectation by
bursting into flame. He looked triumphantly around at Prosper, to whom he had previously explained
the nature of the experiment.

"Would the fire descend wherever the wire led?" demanded the priest.

"Yes," answered Constans, confidently. "Under the same conditions, of course--a broken circuit
and inflammable material close at hand."

The old man frowned. "It is wonderful," he said, grudgingly, "but it proves nothing. Is your
viewless, formless electricity anything more or anything less than my god? What am I to believe?
Is it the spirit of the lightning-cloud that thrills in this little wire, or have you learned
how to bottle fire and thunder, even as a House-dweller who fills his goat-skins with apple-wine?
Is the Shining One at once so great and so small that we can be both his servants and his lords?"

Constans would not be drawn into an argument, being as little versed in theological subtleties
as was the old priest in scientific terminology. But he noticed that Prosper was studying the
subject after his own fashion. Nearly every night now he would start up the machinery and spend
hours in watching the revolutions of the giant dynamo. It was not unusual for Constans to fall
to sleep, lulled by the monotonous humming of the vibratory motor and awake to find the machinery
still in motion.

It was within this week that the Black Swan returned to port. On the fourth day after the accident
to his ankle Constans managed to hobble to one of his posts of observation, and he discovered
immediately that the galley was lying at her accustomed pier. It was vexatious! to have Quinton
Edge return at this precise time. Annoying! that this fair field should be closed before he
had had a chance to explore it. Well, it was fortune, and he must accept it; he was all the
more eager now to make a second call at Arcadia House.

It was a dull, thawy afternoon when Constans found himself standing again before the closed
door that bore the name of the inhospitable Mr. Richard van Duyne. He had brought with him
a rope ladder, provided with grappling-hooks, and the mere scaling of the barrier should not
present any great difficulty. It would be well, however, to reconnoitre a little further before
he attempted it.

Following the wall down to the river, he saw that it was continued to the very edge of the
water, where it joined a solidly constructed sea-wall. There were the remains of a wooden pier
running out from the end of the street proper, and Constans adventured upon its worm-eaten
timbers, intent on obtaining a more extended view of this singular domain of Arcadia House.

A large and somewhat imposing structure it was, albeit of a curiously composite order of architecture.

Originally, it must have been a villa of the true Dutch type built of stuccoed brick, with
many-gabled roof and small-paned, deeply embrasured windows. A subsequent proprietor had enlarged
its ground-plan, added an upper story, and changed the roof to one of flat pitch crowned by
a hideous cupola. Still a third meddler had tried to make it over into a colonial homestead
by painting the stucco white and joining on an enormous columned porch. The final result could
hardly have been otherwise than an artistic monstrosity, yet the old house had acquired that
certain unanalyzable dignity which time confers, and the gentle fingers of the years had softened
down insistent angles and smoothed out unlovely curves. It was a house with a soul, for men
had lived and died, rejoiced and suffered within its walls.

A house--and such a house!--set in its own garden amid the incongruous surroundings of tenement
buildings and malodorous gas-works. How to account for it, what theory could be invented to
reconcile facts so discordant? In reality, the explanation was simple enough; as between the
house and its environment, the former had all the rights of prior possession. In the early
days of the settlement of the city the banks of the Lesser river had been a favorite place
of residence for well-to-do burghers and merchants. But foot by foot the muddy tide of trade
and utilitarianism had risen about these green water-side Edens; one by one their quiet-loving
owners had been forced farther afield.

Yet now and then the standard of rebellion had been raised; here and there might be found a
Dutchman as stiff-necked as the fate that he defied. His father and his father's father had
lived here upon the Lesser river, and nothing short of a cataclysm of nature should avail to
budge him. The commissioners might cut up his cabbage-patch into building sites and reduce
his garden to the limits of a city block, but they could not touch his beloved Arcadia House,
with its white-porticoed piazza that gave upon the swirl and toss of the river--a delectable
spot on a hot June morning. Let them lower their accursed streets to their thrice-accursed
grade; it would but leave him high and dry in his green-embowered island, secure of contamination
to his fruit trees from unspeakable gas and sewer pipes. A ten-foot brick wall, with its top
set with broken bottles, would defend his quinces and apricots from the incursion of the street
Arabs, and wind and sky were as free as ever. Yes, he would hold his own against these vandals
of commercialism, while one brick of Arcadia House remained upon another. So, let us fancy,
quoth Mynheer van Duyne away back in anno Domini 1803, and when he died in 1850 or thereabouts,
the estate, having but a moderate value as city property goes, was allowed to remain in statu
quo; the heirs had ground-rents enough and to spare without it, and Arcadia House might be
considered a proper memorial of the ancient state and dignity of the Van Duynes. But this is
getting to be pure conjecture; let us return to Constans and the facts as he saw them.

The main house stood close to the river, there being but a strip of lawn between the piazza
and the top of the sea-wall. On the left, as Constans faced, an enclosed vestibule led to a
secondary structure, which probably contained the domestic offices and servants' quarters.
Still farther on, and under the same continuous albeit slightly lower roof-line, were the stables
and cattle barns, the wood and other storehouses forming the extreme left wing. In its day,
Arcadia House had been an eminently respectable and comfortable dwelling, and even now it presented
a tolerably good appearance; certainly it might be called habitable. Constans, straining his
eyes, for the afternoon was advancing, thought he saw smoke ascending from one of the chimneys,
and this incited him to an actual invasion of the premises.

He chose the southwestern corner of the block as being farthest removed from the range of the
house windows. A lucky throw made the grapples fast, and it took but an instant to run up the
rungs. There was no one in sight, so Constans, shifting the ladder to the inner side, made
the descent quite at his ease, and found himself in a little plantation of spruce-trees.

The evergreens grew so thickly together that he had some difficulty in forcing his way through
them. Breaking free at last, he stepped out into the open, and stood vis-à-vis with a girl
who had been advancing, as it were, to meet him. Constans knew instantly that this could be
none other than Mad Scarlett's daughter, and there, indeed, were the proofs--the red-gold hair
and the tawny eyes, just as Elena had described them in her message and Ulick in his endless
lover's rhapsodies.

She stood mute and wide-eyed before him, the color in her cheeks coming and going like a flickering
candle. Constans naturally concluded that his appearance had frightened her. He retreated a
step or two; he tried to think of something to say that would reassure her. Perhaps he might
use Ulick's name by way of introduction. He ended by blurting out:

"Don't be afraid; I will go whenever you say."

Her lips formed rather than uttered the warning, "Sh!" She listened intently for a moment or
two, but there was only the distant dripping of water to be heard, the air being extraordinarily
still and windless.

"Come!" she panted, and, clutching at her skirts, led the way to a thatched pavilion some eighty
yards distant, a storehouse, perhaps, or a building once used as a farm office. Constans tried
to question, to protest, but for the moment his will was as flax in the flame of her resolution;
he yielded and ran obediently at her side.

Arrived at the little house, the girl pushed him bodily through the doorway and entered herself,
turning quickly to slip into place the oaken bar that secured the door from the inside. Constans
swelled with indignation at this singular treatment. He was a man grown, not a truant child
to be led away by the ear for punishment. Yet she would not abate one jot of her first advantage,
and his anger melted under the quiet serenity of her gaze; in spite of himself he let her have
the first word.

"Did you think I was afraid for myself?" she asked, with a slow smile that made Constans's
cheeks burn. "You see, I remembered that Fangs and Blazer are generally out by this time, a
full hour before dark."

"Fangs and Blazer?"

"The dogs, I mean. They will track a man even over this half-melted snow, and old Kurt has
trained them to short work with trespassers. You did not know that?"

"No," answered Constans, simply. "But then it would not have made any difference."

"You mean that you are not afraid?"

He had to be honest. "I'm not sure about that, but still I should have come."

The girl's eyes swept him approvingly.

"Of course," she said, well pleased, for a woman delights in placing her own valuation upon
the courage of which a man speaks diffidently.

"I am Esmay," she announced, and paused a little doubtfully.

"I know," assented Constans.

"Then you do remember? Even the bracelet with the carbuncles, and how you would not make up
because I was a girl and knew no better?"

"It was a very foolish affair from beginning to end," said Constans, loftily, intent upon disguising
his embarrassment.

"Of course I knew you at once," she went on, meditatively. "You were so awkward in your ridiculous
priest robes that morning in the temple of the Shining One. How Nanna and I did laugh!"

Constans winced a trifle at this, but he could not think of anything to say. She laughed again
at the remembrance--provokingly. Then she turned on him suddenly. "Why have you come to Arcadia
House?" she asked.

Constans hesitated, tried to avoid the real issue, and of course put himself in the wrong.

"It was on Ulick's account. I had promised him----"

"Oh!" The look was doubly eloquent of the disappointment inherent in the exclamation, and Constans
thrilled under it. What delicious flattery in this unexpected frankness! He made a step forward,
but Esmay in her turn drew back, her eyes hardened, and he stopped, abashed.

It had been a sudden remembrance of her childish threat--"a woman ... and some day you will
know what that means"--that had tempted her to the rashness which she had so quickly regretted.
For she had forgotten that a proposition is generally provided with a corollary. If she had
become a woman he no less had grown to manhood, and that one forward step had forced her to
recognize the fact. She was silent, feeling a little afraid and wondering at herself. Constans,
in more evident discomfiture, blundered on, obsessed by a vague sense of loyalty to his friend.

"Ulick is away--on the expedition to the southland. He was anxious that you should be found,
and I promised to do my best. He will be glad to know."

"When is he coming back?" demanded Esmay, with an entire absence of enthusiasm.

"This month, certainly; indeed, it may be any day now."

"You must promise me that you will not tell him where I am or even that you have seen me."

"But--but----"

"Remember now that you have promised."

Constans felt himself called upon to speak with some severity to this unreasonable young person.

"You are giving a great deal of trouble to your friends," he said, reprovingly.

"My friends!" she echoed, mockingly.

"There was your mother and her message to your uncle Hugolin in Croye."

"Yes, I know," she broke in. "Then it was received--the message----?" She stopped, unable to
go on; an indefinable emotion possessed her.

"My uncle has sent you to fetch me," she whispered. "You are his messenger."

Constans had to answer her honestly, and was sorry.

"No," he said, bluntly. "Messer Hugolin could not see his way to anything."

Her pride came to her aid. "Oh, it does not matter," she said, and so indifferently that Constans
was deceived.

"But you cannot stay here," he insisted--"here among the Doomsmen."

"They are my father's people, and you have just told me that my uncle Hugolin does not want me."

"And what does Quinton Edge desire of you?" he asked.

"I do not know," she answered, returning his gaze fearlessly, whereof Constans was glad, although
he could not have told her why.

"Yet you are a prisoner?"

"It seems so, and my sister Nanna as well. But we have nothing of which to complain, and doubtless
our master will acquaint us with his pleasure in good time."

