Charlemagne and his beloved bride returned to Germany, and, at Ingelheim palace, Fastrada died.
The Kaiser was inconsolable. He would not listen to the voice of friendship, and he sorrowed
in silence over the dead body of his once beautiful bride. Even when decay had commenced, when
the remains, late so lovely, were now loathsome to look on, he could not be induced to leave
the corpse for a moment, or to quit the chamber of death in which it lay. The court were all
astounded. They knew not what to make of the matter. At length Turpin, Archbishop of Rheims,
approached the corpse, and being made aware of the cause, by some supernatural communication
contrived to engage the emperor's attention while he removed the charm. The magic ring was
found by him in the mouth of the dead empress, concealed beneath her tongue.

Immediately that the talisman was removed the spell was broken, and Charlemagne now looked
on the putrid corpse with all the natural horror and loathing of an ordinary man. He gave orders
for its immediate interment, which were at once carried into execution, and he then departed
from Ingelheim for the forest of the Ardennes. Arrived at Aix-la-Chapelle, he took up his abode
in the ancient castle of Frankenstein, close by that famous city. The esteem, however, that
he had felt for Fastrada was now transferred to the possessor of the ring, Archbishop Turpin;
and the pious ecclesiastic was so persecuted by the emperor's affection that he finally cast
the talisman into the lake which surrounds the castle.

An immediate transference of the royal liking took place, and the monarch, thenceforth and
for ever after during his lifetime, loved Aix-la-Chapelle as a man might love his wife. So
much did he become attached to it, that he directed that he should be buried there; and there
accordingly his remains rest unto this day.

THE JEW IN THE BUSH.

A faithful servant had worked hard for his master, a thrifty farmer, for three long years,
and had been paid no wages. At last it came into the man's head that he would not go on thus
any longer, so he went to his master and said--

"I have worked hard for you a long time, and without pay, too. I will trust you to give me
what I ought to have for my trouble, but something I must have, and then I must take a holiday."

The farmer was a sad miser, and knew that his man was simple-hearted, so he took out three
crowns, and thus gave him a crown for each year's service.

"How much may it come to?" said the mannikin.

"Three whole crowns," replied the countryman.

"I wish you would give them to me," said the other. "I am very poor."

Then the good man pitied him, and gave him all he had; and the dwarf said--

"As you have such a kind heart, I will grant you three wishes--one for each crown,--so choose
whatever you like." "I would give a great deal of my money to have such a one."

"If that's all," said the countryman, "I will soon bring it down."

He took up his bow, off went his arrow, and down fell the thrush into a bush that grew at the
foot of the tree. The Jew, when he saw that he could have the bird, thought he would cheat
the man, so he put his money into his pocket again, and crept into the bush to find the prize.
"Mercy, mercy, master! Pray stop the fiddle! What have I done to be treated in this way?"

"What hast thou done?

