"A very good story," said the magistrate; "it seems to be well studied. I suspect you are an
artful fellow, notwithstanding your innocent face. I shall bind you over for trial, my lad.
I think such boys as you should be stopped in time; and a few years in some penitentiary would
do you good."

What could Rodney say? What could he do? He was among strangers. He could send for no one to
testify of his good character, or to become bail for him. And, if his friends had been near,
he felt that he had rather die than that they should know of his disgrace.

The magistrate gave an officer a paper--a commitment--and told him to take the boy to the Arch-street
jail. The constable took him by the arm, and led him out.

As they walked along the street, Rodney looked around him to see if there was no way of escape.
If he could only get a chance to run! As they came to the corner of a little alley, he asked
the constable to let him tie his shoe, the string of which was loose. The man nodded, and Rodney
placed his foot upon a door-step, sheering round beyond the reach of the officer's hand, and
towards the alley. Rodney, as he rose, made one spring, and in a moment was gone down the alley.
The officer rushed after him, and shouted, "Stop thief! stop thief!"

"O, that I should ever be chased for a thief!" groaned Rodney, clenching his teeth together,
and running at his best speed.

That terrible cry, "Stop thief!" rung after him, and soon seemed to be echoed by a hundred
voices, as the boy dashed along Ninth street and down Market street; and, from behind him,
and from doors and windows, and from the opposite side of the street, and at length from before
him, the very welkin rung with the cries of "Stop thief! stop thief!" A hundred eyes were strained
to catch a glimpse of the culprit; but Rodney dashed on, the crowd never thinking that he was
the hunted fox, but only one of the hounds in pursuit, eager to be "in at the death." At the
corner of Fifth and Market-streets, a porter was standing by his wheelbarrow. He saw the chase
coming down, and truly scented the victim; and, as Rodney neared the corner, he suddenly pushed
out his barrow across the pavement. Rodney could not avoid it; he stumbled, fell across it,
and was captured.

"You young scoundrel! is this one of your tricks?" said the constable, as he came up; "I'll
teach you one of mine;" and he struck him a blow on the side of the head, that knocked the
poor boy senseless on the pavement.

Those who stood by cried, "Shame! shame!" and the officer glared furiously around him; but,
seeing that the numbers were against him, he raised the boy from the ground. Rodney soon recovered;
and the constable, grasping him firmly by the wrist of his coat, and, drawing his arm tightly
under his own, led him, followed by a crowd of hooting boys, up Fifth, and through Arch-street,
toward the old jail.

What a walk was that to poor Rodney! The officer, stern and angry, held him with so firm a
grip as to convince him of the uselessness of a second attempt.

Fatigued, and nearly fainting as he was from the race and the blow, he was compelled almost
to run, to keep up with the long strides of the constable. A crowd of boys pressed around,
to get a glimpse of his face.

"What has he done?" one would ask of another.

"Broke open a trunk, and stole money," would be the reply.

Rodney pulled Bill Seegor's old hat over his face, and hung his head, in bitter anguish of
soul, as he heard himself denounced as a thief at every step; and as he heard doors dashed
open, and windows thrown up, similar questions and replies smote his heart. He knew that he
was innocent of such a crime; his soul scorned it; he felt that he was incapable of theft;
but he felt that he had been too guilty, too disobedient and too ungrateful, to dare to hold
up his head, or utter a word in his own defence. It seemed as though that long and terrible
walk with the constable would never end, and he felt relieved when he reached the heavy door
of the jail, amid two files of staring boys, who had ran before him, and arranged themselves
by the gate, to watch him as he entered. He was rudely thrust in, the bolt shot back upon the
closed door, and he was delivered over to the keeping of the jailer, with the assurance of
the policeman, that "he was a sharp miscreant, and needed to be watched."

CHAPTER VIII.

RODNEY IN JAIL.

Such are the rewards which sin gives to its votaries; full of soft words and tempting promises
in the beginning, they find, in the end, that "it biteth like a serpent, and stingeth like
an adder." Thoughts like these passed through Rodney's mind, as the jailer led him to a room
in which were confined three other lads, all older than himself. At that time, the system of
solitary confinement had not been adopted in Pennsylvania, and prisoners were allowed to associate
together; but it was deemed best to keep the boys from associating with older and more hardened
culprits, whose conversation might still more corrupt them, and they were therefore confined
together, apart from the mass of the criminals.

At first Rodney suffered the most intense anguish. A sense of shame and degradation overwhelmed
him. He staggered to a corner of the room, threw himself on the floor, and, for a long time,
sobbed and wept as though his very heart would break. For a while the boys seemed to respect
his grief, and left him in silence. At last one of them went to him, and said,

"Come, there's no use in this; we are all here together, and we may as well make the best of it!"

Rodney sat up, and looked at them, as they gathered around him.

They were ragged in dress, and pale from their confinement, and Rodney involuntarily shrank
from the idea of associating with them, regarding them as criminals in jail. But he soon remembered
his own position,--that he was now one of them,--and he thought he would take their advice,
and "make the best of it."

"Well, what did they squeeze you into this jug for, my covey?" asked the eldest boy.

Rodney told them his story, and protested that he was innocent of any crime.

The boy put his thumb to the end of his nose, and twirled his fingers, saying, "You can't gammon
us, my buck; come, out with it, for we never peach on one another."

Rodney was very angry at this mode of treating his story. But, in spite of himself, he gradually
became familiar with the companions thus forced upon him, and, in a day or two, began to engage
with them in their various sports, to while away the weary hours. Sometimes they sat and told
stories, to amuse one another; and thus Rodney heard tales of wickedness and depredation and
cunning, that almost led him to doubt whether there was any honesty among men. They talked
of celebrated thieves and robbers, burglars and pirates, as if they were the models by which
they meant to mould their own lives; and, instead of detesting their crimes, Rodney began to
admire the skill and success with which they were perpetrated. The excitement and freedom,
and wild, frenzied enjoyment of such a life, as depicted by the young knaves, began to fascinate
and charm his mind. Something seemed to whisper in his ear, "As you are now disgraced, without
any fault of your own, why not carry it out, and make the most of it? They have put you into
jail, this time, for nothing; if they ever do it again, let them have some reason for it."
Who knows what might have been the result of such temptations and influences, had these associations
been long continued, and not counteracted by the interposition of God?

But then the instructions of childhood, the lessons of home and of the Sabbath-school, were
brought back to his memory, and he said to himself, "What, be a thief! Make myself despised
and hated by all good people! Live a life of wickedness and dread,--perhaps die in the penitentiary,
and then, in all probability, lose my soul, and be cast into hell! No, never! I shall never
dare to steal, or to break into houses; and as for killing anybody for money, I shudder even
at the thought!"

So did the bad and the good struggle together in the heart of the poor boy. How many there
are who, at the first, feel and think about crime as he did, but who, in the end, become familiar
with vice, lose their sense of fear and shame and guilt, become bold and reckless in sin, having
their consciences seared as with a hot iron, and violating all laws, human and divine, without
compunction, and without a thought save that of impunity and success!

All the elements of a life of crime were in the heart of this wayward boy; and had it not been
for the instructions of his childhood, which counteracted these evil influences, and the providence
and grace of God, which restrained him, he would have become a miserable outcast from society,
leading a wretched life of shame and guilt.

"I wish we had a pack of cards here," said one of the boys, one weary afternoon.

"Can't we make a pack?" inquired another.

And then the lads set their wits to work, and soon manufactured a substitute for a pack of
cards. They had a couple of old newspapers, which they folded and cut into small, regular pieces,
and marked each piece with the spots that are found on playing cards, making rude shapes of
faces, and writing "Jack," "King," "Knave," &c., under them. With these, they used to spend
hours shuffling and dealing and playing, until Rodney understood the pernicious game as well
as the rest.

"Joe," said Rodney, one day, to the oldest boy, "what did they put you in here for?"

"Well," said he, "I'll tell you. Sam and I run with the Moyamensing Hose Company. Many a jolly
time we have had of it, running to fires, and many a good drink of liquor we have had, too;
for when the people about the fires treated the firemen, we boys used to come in for our share
of the treat. There was a standing quarrel between us and the 'Franklin' boys, and we used
to have a fight whenever we could get at them. I heard one of the men say, one day, that if
there was only a fire down Twelfth or Thirteenth-street, and the 'Franklin' should come up
in that direction, we could get them foul, and give them a good drubbing. Well, there was a
fire down Twelfth-street the next night! I don't mean to say who kindled it; but a watchman
saw Sam and me about the stable, and then running away from it as fast as we could. The fellow
marked us, and as we were going back to the fire with the machine, he nabbed us, and walked
us off to the watch-house, and the next day we were stuck into this hole."

"But did you set fire to the stable?"

"What would you give to know? I make no confessions; and if you ever tell out of doors what
I have said here, I'll knock your teeth down your throat, if I ever catch you."

These two boys had actually been guilty of the dreadful crime of setting fire to a stable.
It was used by two or three poor men for their horses and carts, which was the only means they
had of making an honest living; and yet these wicked boys had tried to burn it down, just for
the fun of going to a fire, and getting up a fight! There are other boys, in large cities,
who will commit similar acts; but such young villains are ripe for almost any crime, and must,
in all human probability, come to some dreadful end.

"Hank," said Rodney to another boy,--his real name was Henry, but Hank was his prison name,--"tell
us now what you have done."

"I'll tell you nothing about it."

"What is your last name, Hank?" inquired Sam, after a few moments' pause.

"Johnson," said Hank.

"Ah! I know now what you did. I read it in the paper, just before I came in, and, somehow,
I thought you was one of the larks as soon as I clapped eyes on you.

"You see, Hank and some of his gang, watching about, saw a house in Arch-street, and noticed
that it was empty. The family, I suppose, had all gone to the country, and it was shut up.
So, one Sunday afternoon, four of them climbed over the back gate into the yard, pried open
a window-shutter, got in, and helped themselves to whatever they could lay their hands on.
After dark they sneaked out at the back gate with their plunder. One of them was caught, trying
to sell some of the things, and he peached, and they jugged them all. Isn't that the fact, Hank?"

"Well, it's no use lying; it was pretty much so."

"What became of the other fellows, Hank?"

"Why, their fathers or friends bailed them out, and I have no father, or anybody who cares
for me. But"--and he swore a fearful oath--"if ever I catch that white-livered Jim Hulsey,
who was the ringleader in the whole scheme, and got me into the scrape, and then blowed me,
to save himself, I'll beat him to a mummy, I will."

And these were the companions with whom Rodney was compelled to associate! Sometimes he shrank
from them with loathing; and sometimes he almost envied the hardihood with which they boasted
of their crimes. Had he remained in their company much longer, who can tell to what an extent
he would have been contaminated, and how rapidly prepared for utter moral degradation and eternal
ruin?

What afterwards became of them, Rodney never knew; but they are probably either dead,--God
having said, "The wicked shall not live out half their days,"--or else preying upon society
by the commission of more dreadful crimes, or perhaps spending long years of life in the penitentiary,
confined to hard labor and prison fare.

One day, after he had been about two weeks in jail, Rodney took the basin in which they had
washed, and threw the water out of the window. The grated bars prevented his seeing whether
there was any one below. He had often done so before. It had not been forbidden. He did not
intend to do any wrong.

But it happened that one of the keepers was walking under the window, and the water fell upon
his head.

He came to the door, in a great rage, and asked who had thrown that water out. Rodney at once
said that he had done it, but that he did not know that he had done any harm.

The man took him roughly by the arm, and, telling him he must come with him, led him through
a long corridor to another part of the prison, and thrust him into a small, dark dungeon.

CHAPTER IX.

THE DUNGEON.

The room was very small,--a mere closet,--lighted only by a narrow window over the door, which
admitted just light enough from the corridor to enable Rodney to see the walls. There was some
scribbling on the walls, but there was not light enough, even after his eyes became accustomed
to the place, to distinguish a letter.

There was neither chair nor bench, not even a blanket, on which to lie. The bare walls and
floor were unrelieved by a single article of comfort. Here, for four long days and nights,
Rodney was confined. There was nothing by which he could relieve the dreadful wearisome time.
He heard no voice save that of the surly jailer, once a day, bringing him a rough jug of water
and half a loaf of black bread. He had no books with which to while away the long, tedious
hours, nor was there light enough to read, had there been a whole library in the cell.

The first emotions of the boy, when the door was locked upon him, were those of indignation
and anger. "Why," said he to himself, "am I treated in this way? They are brutes! I have done
nothing to deserve this barbarity. I am no felon or thief, that I should be used in this way.
I have broken no rule that was made known to me, since I have been in this place. The heartless
wretch of a jailer thrust me into this hole, to gratify his own spite. He knows that I couldn't
have thrown water on him purposely, for I couldn't see down into the yard. He never told me
what I was to do with the dirty water, and there was no other place to throw it. He deserves
being shut up in this den himself! O, I wish I had him in my power for a week! I would give
him a lesson that he would remember as long as he lived.

"Was there ever such an unlucky boy as I am? Everything goes against me. There is no chance
for me to do anything, or to enjoy anything, in this world. I wish I was dead!"

A bitter flood of tears burst from him, which seemed, as it were, to quench his anger, and
gradually his heart became open to more salutary reflections.

"Do you not deserve all this?" whispered his conscience. "Have you not brought it upon yourself
by your own wickedness and disobedience? You had a good home and kind friends; and if you had
to work every day, it was no more than all have to do in one form or another. Blame yourself,
then, for your own idle, reckless disposition, that would not be satisfied with your lot. You
are only finding out the truth of the text you have often repeated,--'The way of the transgressor
is hard.'"

He thought of his home, as he lay upon that hard floor. The forms of his pious old grandmother,
and of his mother and sister, all seemed to stand before him, and to look down upon him reproachfully.
He remembered now their kindness and good counsel. He groaned in bitterness, "O! this would
break their hearts, if they knew it! I have disgraced myself, and I have disgraced them." He
had leisure for reflection, and his mind recalled, most painfully, the scenes of the past.
He thought of the Sabbath-school, of his kind teacher, and of the instructions that had been
so affectionately imparted. How much better for him would it have been, had he regarded those
instructions!

And then he thought of God! He remembered that His all-seeing eye had followed all his wanderings,
and noted all his guilt. He had sinned against God, and some of the bitterness of punishment
had already overtaken him. The idea that God was angry with him, and that He was visiting his
sins with the rod of chastisement, took possession of his soul. Now he ceased to blame others
for his sufferings, and acknowledged to himself that all was deserved. Again he wept, but it
was in terror at the thought of God's anger, and in grief that he had sinned so ungratefully
against his Maker.

He tried to pray; but the words of the prayers he had been taught in his childhood did not
seem to be appropriate to his present condition. Those prayers were associated with days and
scenes of comparative innocence and happiness. He now felt guilty and wretched, and felt deeply
that other forms of petition were necessary for him. But he could not frame words into a prayer
that would soothe and relieve his soul. "God will not hear me," was his bitter thought. "I
do not deserve to be heard. O! if God would have mercy upon me, and deliver me from this trouble,
I think I would try to serve and obey Him as long as I lived."

He kneeled down upon the hard floor, and raised his clasped hands and streaming eyes toward
heaven; but he could find no utterance for his emotions, save in sobs and tears. Prayer would
not come in words. Again and again he tried to pray, but in vain; he felt that he could not
pray; and, almost in despair, he paced the narrow cell, and was ready to believe that God's
favor was forever withdrawn from his soul,--that there was no ear to listen, and no arm to
save, and that nothing was left for him in the future but a life of misery, a death of shame,
and an eternity of woe!

