Margate.--Beached this popular seaside place a few hours later. Swam out of sight of the sands
to rid myself of a view of the excursion riff-raff thereon congregated. Sea completely smooth,
but cold. Took a nip of ----'s English Cognac.

Ramsgate.--Very pleased to find myself abreast of the Royal Crescent, which seemed delightful.
Cape Grisnez still bearing N.E. by E. Munched one of ----'s excellent Birchrod Biscuits.

Dover.--Just had a good long rest in front of Clarence Lawn, which glistened in the sunlight.
Greatly refreshed after a drink of ----'s Essence of Gravy beef.

Calais.--A shower of rain came on at this point. However, one of ----'s excellent umbrellas
kept my head dry, and, being easy to hold, did not prevent me from swimming and writing up my log.

Gibraltar.--I felt very fatigued going through the Bay of Biscay, but recovered much of my
strength off the fortress by sucking one of ----'s capital Kill-cough Lozenges.

Malta.--I have now been in the water six days and three nights continuously, and yet am nearly
as fresh as when I started. I attribute this marvellous fact to my practice of sipping ----'s
Essence of Coffeetine.

Aden.--Water extremely hot, but am still confident of success. Went to sleep for an hour in
the Red Sea, smoking one of ----'s Anti-alligator cigarettes, which are a real preventive against
crocodile annoyance.

Madras.--Am continuing my side-stroke but somewhat languidly. I half regretted that I was unable
to go on shore to see the Indian curiosities. Much refreshed after partaking of the contents
of ----'s Patent Luncheon Basket.

Singapore.--Have now been continually in the water for six weeks. Regret that my log should
be so "scrappy," but my time just now is very much occupied by other things. Tired, but confident
of success. During the last fortnight have fed with great relish upon ----'s Purée de foies
gras. It is not only cheap, but excellent.

New Hebrides.--Am now within measurable distance of the end of my journey. Quite accustomed
to the water. However, greatly fatigued, and very pleased to eat some of ----'s Alimentary
Condiment.

Pitcairn Island.--Glad to be again in these latitudes. My strokes are now very feeble. I should
have to give in were it not for ----'s Medicated Mutton Broth, which seems to be most nourishing.

Cape Town.--In a fainting condition. Scarcely able to hold this pen. Became better after eating
----'s Digestible Plum Puddings, sold in tin canisters at 1s. 10d. per pound.

Rio Janeiro.--Terribly hot and exhausted. I have now been three months continuously in the
water, which is certainly a long time. Much amused with a toy called ----'s Mechanical Rabbit.

Cape Verde Islands.--Almost unconscious from fatigue. However, I can swim more easily after
I have drunk a glass or two of ----'s Cabbage Rose Temperance Non-Intoxicating Sherry. It is
a most admirable beverage.

Madeira.--I move with the greatest difficulty, and fear I must be sinking. I obtain great strength
from an occasional sip of ----'s "Beef-fibre" (title registered) which seems to me worth twice
its weight in gold.

Dublin.--Have now been in the water continuously for nearly half a year. Too feeble to look
at Dublin. I am evidently sinking, and can only keep off a relapse by eating ----'s Patent
Vegetable Substitute for Roast Pork.

Herne Bay.--Returned dead--quite dead! Restored to life by inhaling ----'s Vitality Producer.

N.B.--The above blanks will be filled up with real names. For particulars apply at 85, Fleet
Street Advertisement Department.

       *       *       *       *       *

A BLACK BUSINESS.

As stated in the Daily Telegraph of Thursday last, the Russian Censor stamped out Mr. Punch's
Cartoon, "From Nile to Neva," and obliterated the verses. The St. James's Gazette suggested
that the Cartoon was thus reproduced in Whistlerian fashion. It certainly is a study in black,
without any relief whatever. A Black business indeed! Who shall correct the Censor Incensed?
Even Mr. Punch himself would be chary about visiting Petersburg, lest he should be "bound in
Russia,"--and sent to Siberia.

       *       *       *       *       *

       *       *       *       *       *

WHAT THE TAME RABBIT SAID TO THE GRAND OLD GARDENER.

(Some way after "Alice in Wonderland.")

"The work of Major MORANT is headed Profitable Rabbit Farming. (Laughter.) Yes, that is a subject
for merriment, probably, on account of its comparative novelty, but it is also a subject of
satisfaction, which is akin to merriment, because this rabbit-farming appears to be a very
good and promising description of pursuit.... That is the raising of tame rabbits."--Mr. Gladstone
at the Hawarden Floral and Horticultural Society's Show.

These were the verses the Tame Rabbit recited:--

  The Grand Old Man was on the stir;
    MORANT named me to him;
  He gave me a good character;
    I thought his meaning dim.

  He held me up; they thought it fun!
    And laughed; he chid their glee.
  If he should push this matter on,
    What will become of Me?

  He said I was a paying game,
    Commending me as such.
  That's the result of being tame,
    And living in a hutch.

  My notion is that it is vain
    For you, you Grand Old Fella,
  To rave of rabbits in the rain,
    Beneath a big umbrella.

  Don't let them know we fatten best,
    For this should ever be
  A secret kept from all the rest,
    Between yourself and me!

       *       *       *       *       *

       *       *       *       *       *

LITERATURE AND LOTTERY.

(By a Patron of the Popular Press.)

  Yes, I've "a literary taste,"
    And patronise a weekly journal;
  'Tis what is called Scissors and Paste,
    The paper's poor, the print's infernal.
  But what of that, when, week by week,
    High at the sight of it hope rises?
  What in my Magazine I seek
    Is just--a medium for Prizes!
  I can't be bothered to read much,
    I like my literature in snippets.
  My hope is, with good luck, to clutch
    Villas, gold watches, sable tippets.
  A coupon and some weekly pence
    Give me a chance of an annuity.
  Oh, the excitement is intense!
    I read with ardent assiduity,
  Not what the poor ink-spillers say
    In sparkling "par," or essay solemn;
  No, what I read, with triumph gay
    Or hope deferred, is--the Prize Column!
  On prose my time I seldom waste,
    And poetry is poor and pottery.
  But oh! I have an ardent taste
    For Literature when linked with Lottery!

       *       *       *       *       *

ROBERT'S LITTLE HOLLERDAY.

My hollerday, or sum of it, was spent in Hopen Spaces. Hif anybody as has got two eyes in his
hed, and a hart in his buzzom, wants for to see what can be done with about 40 hakers of land--witch
the most respecfool Gardiner told me was about the size of the Queen's Park at Kilburn--let
him go there on a fine Summer's Arternoon, and see jest about five thowsen children a playing
about there, all free, and hindependent, and appy, with two fountings to drink when they're
ot and thirsty, and a nice littel Jim Nasyum to climb up and down. They ain't allowed to play
at Cricket coz there ain't not room enuf, but I did see two bold littel chaps, about six a
peace, a breaking of the Law, and a playing at the forbidden game, with a jacket for the wicket
and a stick for a Bat, and the kind-arted Gardiner hadn't got hart enuff to stop 'em.

He told me as how, when the Copperashun fust took possesshun of it, it was nothink but a Baron
Swomp, but that, what with the spending of lots of money, and the souperintending genus of
Major MAKENZIE, in two years it was maid to blossom like a rose. I spent a werry plessant arternoon
there, and drove home in style on the Box Seat of a reel Company's Bus. The nex day I went
to Higate Wood, another of the grate works of the good old Copperashun. And lawks, what a difference!
No swarms of children a playing about on the grass, but lots and lots on 'em a racing about
among the hundreds of trees, and their warious fathers and mothers a looking on with smiling
faces and prowd looks. There is one place in the werry middle of the Wood where no less than
sewen parths meets, and there the Copperashun Committee has bilt up a bewtifool Founting, and
a long hinskripshun in praise of Water, tho I shood dout if they speaks from werry much pussonal
xperience. I was told as how, when they fust hopened the Founting, the Chairman made a bewtifool
speech, and ended by saying, "Water, brite Water for me, and Wine for the trembling Debborshee,"
and then they all went off to a jolly good dinner.

With that artistick taste as so distinguishes 'em, they have crissened the place where the
seven roads meets, "The Seven Dials." There was crowds of peeple there, all enjoying of themselves
in a nice quiet way, and altogether it was a werry werry nice site.

The werry next day I started in the warm sunshine for pretty West Ham Park, and had a leetle
adwenture as ushal, for jest as I got there who shoud I meet but the rayther sillybrated Parson
of the Parish--tho' judgin by aperiences I shoud have took him for the Bishop of ESSEX--and
seeing me in my new Hat and my best black Coat, he werry naterally took me for a inquiring
Wisitor, and told me all about the good deed of the Copperashun in saving the Park for the
good of the Peeple. There was some werry little chaps a playing Cricket as before despite of
the Law, and they had a reel bat too, and one on 'em, seeing me a looking on apruvingly, gave
the ball such a tremenjus blow that he got a tooer, so I called out braywo!

There seemed a lot of washing going on jest outside the Park, the white shirts and settera,
flustering gaily in the breeze. But, as the Poet says, "they're allus Washing somewheres in
the World!" The common peeple was orderd to walk on the footpaths, but a gardiner told me as
them orders was not ment for such as me. I had a most copious Lunch for tuppense in the helegant
Pawillion, and being in a jowial and ginerus mood, I treated six of the jewwenile natives to
a simmeler Bankwet. Then there is the sillibrated Band as the Copperashun perwides twice a
week, on which occasions reserwed seats is charged a penny each. The werry adwanced state of
the musical taste of the nayberhood may be judged by the fact, that at a Concert close by,
a "Ode to a Butterfly" was to be played on a base Trombone!

The Gardiner told me as there was such a crowd of children on larst Bank Hollerday that there
was hardly room to move about, tho' the Park is 80 hakers big; but as I am told that such a
space wood hold about 80 thousand, quite cumferal, I thinks as he must have slitely xadgerated.

ROBERT.

       *       *       *       *       *

A STRIKING NURSERY RHYME.

(With a Moral.)

  Tilbury, Tilbury Dock!
  The men struck--on a rock;
    For their U-ni-on
    Said, "Wrong you have done!"
  Tilbury, Tilbury Dock!

  Tilbury, Tilbury scare!
  This "Striking" seems in the air.
    Conciliation
    Should free the nation
  From Tilbury, Tilbury scare!

       *       *       *       *       *

THE PROFESSIONAL GUEST.

AT THE SEA-SIDE.

DEAR MR. PUNCH,--When I last wrote to you I was anticipatorily revelling in the sea-bathing,
tennis tournaments, pier band, and evening promenades of Flatsands. Alas! that I must confess
it, but, after a fortnight's visit to that "salubrious spot" (vide highly-coloured advertisements),
I give it as my opinion that Flatsands is a failure; and I think that, when you have listened
to, or rather perused, my tale of woe, you will agree with me that it is a place to be avoided
at all costs.

On the difficulties and length of my journey thither (I changed five times, and spent nine
hours in doing so), I will not dwell, neither will I lay stress on the fact that, when I did
at last reach my destination, a prospect void of either Aunt, or conveyance of any kind, met
my view, or that a heavy sea-mist had gathered, and was falling in the guise of penetrating,
if fine, rain. After parleying with the station-master for some time, I ascertained that the
station 'bus never put in an appearance in wet weather, and that I could not get a closed fly,
because the Flatsands' conveyances were all pony-traps, and therefore hoodless. He, however,
directed me towards Balmoral, which was my Aunt's address, and told me that ten minutes' walk
would take me, and that my luggage should be sent after me, on a truck.

After some difficulty, for the sea-fog was very thick, I discovered Balmoral, but not my Aunt.
The truculent-looking proprietor of the house, who answered the door, condescended to inform
me that my relative "was the difficultest lady he'd ever had to do for. And that she'd left
two days a-gone." But where she had betaken herself to, he either would not or could not tell
me. "You'd best try along this row," he said, and then slammed the door in my face. Having
nothing better to do, I followed his advice, and "tried along the row." I rang at Osborne,
Sandringham, and Windsor. I knocked at Claremont (the bell was broken there), and walked boldly
into Marlborough House, for that royal residence in particular was devoid of all ordinary means
of heralding one's approach. I was just giving up my quest in despair, when through the rain,
which was now falling heavily, I spied a small stucco villa standing shrinkingly back behind
a row of palings, which, in spite of their green paint, looked more like domestic fire-sticks
than anything else. The somewhat suggestive name of Frogmore was inscribed on the small gate,
and I remembered that I quite shivered as I walked up the sloppy path, with my usual inquiry
ready to hand. This time, though, I was right, and when, a few minutes later, I was sitting
before a roaring fire, imbibing hot tea, and listening to my Aunt's account of her latest complaint
(did I tell you she was hypochondriacal?) I felt that really and at last I was in for a pleasant
visit.

The evening proved a short one, for Aunt retired at nine, for which I was not sorry, as by
that time the atmosphere of the sitting-room was distinctly stuffy, and neither dinner, nor
the fumes of the invalid's hot-and-strong "night-cap" improved it. Next morning I sympathised
with her on the fact that, soon after she had gone to bed, the young lady on the drawing-room
floor (for two other families shared Frogmore's roof with us) had begun to sing, and had continued
her performances till midnight; but I found my commiseration wasted, for she said that it had
soothed her, which was considerably more than it had done me. After breakfast--which was late,
on account of Aunt's health--I proposed a stroll on the Promenade, or an inspection of the
tennis courts. "Bless my soul!" cried Auntie, "a person in my state of health does not go to
places all over promenades and tennis courts. You won't find any such things at a nice quiet
resort like Flatsands." I felt a little dashed, but replied "that perhaps she was right, and
that it was a nice change to be without tennis; and that, as to promenades, they were quite
superfluous where there was a pier, and a good band." "A pier, child!" she screamed. "You won't
find any such abominations as piers here, or German bands either. Do you think that I should
come anywhere where there was a pier?" I felt the smile on my face becoming fixed, but I mastered
my feelings sufficiently to murmur something about bathing before lunch.

