No. 212.]
SATURDAY, NOVEMBER 19.
      "Foxes and Firebrands." No. 2. "The Trojan
      Horse"                                             485
    Testimonials to Donkeys, by Cuthbert Bede, B.A.      488
    Longevity in Cleveland, Yorkshire, by William Durrant
      Cooper                                             488
    Rev. Josiah Pullen                                   489

    FOLK LORE:--Ancient Custom in Warwickshire--
      Nottinghamshire Customs                            490

    MINOR NOTES:--A Centenarian Couple--"Veni,
      vidi, vici"--Autumnal Tints--Variety is pleasing--
      Rome and the Number Six--Zend Grammar--The
      Duke's First Victory--Straw Paper--American
      Epitaph                                            490

  QUERIES:--

    Laurie (?) on Currency, &c.                          491
    "Donatus Redivivus"                                  492

    MINOR QUERIES:--Henry Scobell--The Court House
      --Ash-trees attract Lightning--Symbol of Sow, &c.
      --Passage in Blackwood--Rathband Family--
      Encaustic Tiles from Caen--Artificial Drainage--
      Storms at the Death of Great Men--Motto on Wylcotes'
      Brass--"Trail through the leaden sky," &c.--
      Lord Audley's Attendants at Poictiers--Roman
      Catholic Bible Society                             493

    MINOR QUERIES WITH ANSWERS--"Vox Populi Vox
      Dei"--"Lanquettes Cronicles"--"Our English
      Milo"--"Delights for Ladies"--Burton's Death
      --Joannes Audoënus--Hampden's Death                494

  REPLIES:-

    "Pinece with a Stink," by W. Pinkerton, &c.          496
    Monumental Brasses abroad, by Josiah Cato            497
    Milton's "Lycidas," by C. Mansfield Ingleby          497
    School Libraries, by Weld Taylor and G. Brindley
      Acworth                                            498
    Cawdray's "Treasurie of Similies," and Simile of
      Magnetic Needle, by Rev. E. C. Harington, &c.      499
    "Mary, weep no more for me," by J. W. Thomas         500

    PHOTOGRAPHIC CORRESPONDENCE:--Clouds in Photographs
      --Albumenized Paper--Stereoscopic Angles
      --Photographic Copies of MSS.                      501

    REPLIES TO MINOR QUERIES:--Lord Cecil's "Memorials"
      --Foreign Medical Education--Encyclopædias
      --Pepys's Grammar--"Antiquitas Sæculi Juventus
      Mundi"--Napoleon's Spelling--Black as a mourning
      Colour--Chanting of Jurors--Aldress--Huggins
      and Muggins--Camera Lucida--"When Orpheus
      went down"--The Arms of De Sissone--Oaths of
      Pregnant Women--Lepel's Regiment--Editions of
      the Prayer Book prior to 1662--Creole--Daughter
      pronounced "Dafter"--Richard Geering--Island       502

  MISCELLANEOUS:--

    Books and Odd Volumes wanted                         505
    Notices to Correspondents                            505
    Advertisements                                       505

       *       *       *       *       *

Notes.

PARTY-SIMILES OF THE SEVENTEENTH CENTURY--NO. I. "FOXES AND FIREBRANDS." NO. II. "THE TROJAN
HORSE."

With Englishmen, at least, the seventeenth was a century pre-eminent for quaint conceits and
fantastic similes: the literature of that period, whether devotional, poetical, or polemical[1],
was alike infected with the universal mania for strained metaphors, and men vied with each
other in giving extraordinary titles to books, and making the {486} contents justify the title.

It is not, however, for the purpose of illustrating this mania that I am about to dwell on
the two similes which form the subject of my present Note: I selected them as favourite party-similes
which formed a standing dish for old Anglican writers; and also because they throw light on
the history of religious party in England, and thus form a suitable supplement to my article
on "High Church and Low Church" (Vol. viii., p. 117.).

As the object of the Church of England, in separating from Rome, was the reformation, not the
destruction of her former faith, by the very act of reformation she found herself opposed to
two bodies; namely, that from which she separated, and the ultra-reformers or Puritans, who
clamoured for a radical reformation.

Taking these as the Scylla and Charybdis--the two extremes to be avoided--the Anglican Church
hoped to attain the safe and golden mean by steering between these opposites, and find, in
this via media course, the path of truth.

Accordingly, her divines abound with warnings against the aforesaid Scylla and Charybdis, and
with exhortations to cleave to the middle line of safety. Acting on the proverb that extremes
meet, they were ever drawing parallels between their two opponents. On the other hand, the
Puritans stoutly contended that they were the true middle-men; and in their turn traced divers
similarities and parallels betwixt "Popery and Prelacy," the "Mass Book and Service Book."[2]

Without farther preface, I shall give the title of a curious work, which will tell its own story:

    "Foxes and Firebrands; or A Specimen of the Danger and Harmony of
    Popery and Separation. Wherein is proved from undeniable Matter of
    Fact and Reason, that Separation from the Church of England is, in the
    Judgment of Papists, and by Experience, found the most Compendious way
    to introduce Popery, and to ruine the Protestant Religion:

     'Tantum Religio potuit suadere Malorum.'"

A work under this title was published, if I mistake not, in London in 1678 by Dr. Henry Nalson;
in 1682, Robert Ware reprinted it with a second part of his own; and in 1689 he added a third
and last part in 12mo., uniform with the previous volume.[3] In the Epist. Ded. to Part II.
the writer says of the Church of England:

    "The Papists on the one hand, and the Puritans on the other, did
    endeavour to sully and bespatter the glory of her Reformation: the one
    taxing it with innovation, and the other with superstition."

The Preface to the Third Part declares that the object of the whole work is "to reclaim the
most haggard Papists" and Puritans.

Wheatly, in treating of the State Service for the 29th of May, remarks:

    "The Papists and Sectaries, like Sampson's Foxes, though they look
    contrary ways, do yet both join in carrying Fire to destroy us: their
    End is the same, though the method be different."--Rational Illust. of
    the Book of Common Prayer, 3rd edit., London, 1720, folio.

The following passage occurs in A Letter to the Author of the Vindication of the Clergy, by
Dr. Eachard, London, 1705:

    "I have put in hard, I'll assure you, in all companies, for two or
    three more: as for example, The Papist and the Puritan being tyed
    together like Sampson's Foxes. I liked it well enough, and have
    beseeched them to let it pass for a phansie; but I could never get the
    rogues in a good humour to do it: for they say that Sampson's foxes
    have been so very long and so very often tied together, that it is high
    time to part them. It may be because something very like it is to be
    found in a printed sermon, which was preached thirty-eight years ago:
    it is no flam nor whisker. It is the forty-third page upon the right
    hand. Yours go thus, viz. Papist and Puritan, like Sampson's Foxes,
    though looking and running two several ways, yet are ever joyned
    together the tail. My author has it thus, viz. The Separatists and
    the Romanists consequently to their otherwise most distant principles
    do fully agree, like Sampson's Foxes, tyed together by the tails, to
    set all on fire, although their faces look quite contrary ways."--P.
    34.

