She took up a little package she had brought with her and went out to meet him.

"There's one errand to do," she said, as they entered the carriage, "but it's on our way. Have
him go up Madison Avenue and deliver this."

She showed him the package addressed: "Mr. Rulon Shepler, Personal."

"And this," she said, giving him an unsealed note. "Read it, please!"

He read:

"DEAR RULON SHEPLER:--I am sure you know women too well to have thought I loved you as a wife
should love her husband. And I know your bigness too well to believe you will feel harshly
toward me for deciding that I could not marry you. I could of course consistently attribute
my change to consideration for you. I should have been very little comfort to you. If I should
tell you just the course I had mapped out for myself--just what latitude I proposed to claim--I
am certain you would agree with me that I have done you an inestimable favour.

"Yet I have not changed because I do not love you, but because I do love some one else with
all my heart; so that I claim no credit except for an entirely consistent selfishness. But
do try to believe, at the same time, that my own selfishness has been a kindness to you. I
send you a package with this hasty letter, and beg you to believe that I shall remain--and
am now for the first time--

"Sincerely yours,

"AVICE MILBREY BINES.

"P.S. I should have preferred to wait and acquaint you with my change of intention before marrying,
but my husband's plans were made and he would not let me delay."

He sealed the envelope, placed it securely under the cord that bound the package, and their
driver delivered it to the man who opened Shepler's door.  As their train emerged from the
cut at Spuyten Duyvil and sped to the north along the Hudson, the sun blazed forth.

"There, boy,--I knew the sun must shine to-day."

They had finished their breakfast. One-half of the pink roses were on the table, and one from
the other half was in her hair.

"I ordered the sun turned on at just this point," replied her husband, with a large air. "I
wanted you to see the last of that town under a cloud, so you might not be homesick so soon."

"You don't know me. You don't know what a good wife I shall be."

"It takes nerve to reach up for a strange support and then kick your environment out from under
you--as Doctor von Herzlich would have said if he'd happened to think of it."

"But you shall see how I'll help you with your work; I was capable of it all the time."

"But I had to make you. I had to pick you up just as I did that first time, and again down
in the mine--and you were frightened because you knew this time I wouldn't let you go."

"Only half-afraid you wouldn't--the other half I was afraid you would. They got all mixed up--I
don't know which was worse."

"Well, I admit I foozled my approach on that copper stock--but I won you--really my winnings
in Wall Street are pretty dazzling after all, for a man who didn't know the ropes;--there's
a mirror directly back of you, Mrs. Bines, if you wish to look at them--with a pink rose over
that kissy place just at their temple."

She turned and looked, pretending to be quite unimpressed.

"I always was capable of it, I tell you,--boy!"

"What hurt me worst that night, it showed you could love some one--you did have a heart--but
you couldn't love me."

She did not seem to hear at first, nor to comprehend when she went back over his words. Then
she stared at him in sudden amazement.

He saw his blunder and looked foolish.

"I see--thank you for saying what you did last night--and you didn't mind--you came to me anyway,
in spite of that."

She arose, and would have gone around the table to him, but he met her with open arms.

"Oh, you boy! you do love me,--you do!"

