As we crossed the Cascades on our way to Seattle, one of the passengers was moved to explain
his feeling on the excellence of Puget Sound in contrast with the remaining visible Universe.
He did it well in spite of irreverent interruptions from those fellow travelers who were unconverted
children of the East, and at last he broke forth in passionate challenge, "Why should I not
love Seattle! It took me from the slums of the Atlantic Coast, a poor Swedish boy with hardly
fifteen dollars in my pocket. It gave me a home by the beautiful sea; it spread before my eyes
a vision of snow-capped peaks and smiling fields; it brought abundance and a new life to me
and my children and I love it, I love it! If I were a multi-millionaire I would charter freight
cars and carry away from the crowded tenements and noisome alleys of the eastern cities and
the Old World the toiling masses, and let them loose in our vast forests and ore-laden mountains
to learn what life really is!" And my heart was stirred by his words and by the whirling spaces
of woods and peaks through which we passed.

But as I looked and listened to this passionate outcry, I remembered the words of Talleyrand,
the exiled Bishop of Autun, in Washington's administration. Looking down from an eminence not
far from Philadelphia upon a wilderness which is now in the heart of that huge industrial society
where population presses on the means of life, even the cold-blooded and cynical Talleyrand,
gazing on those unpeopled hills and forests, kindled with the vision of coming clearings, the
smiling farms and grazing herds that were to be, the populous towns that should be built, the
newer and finer social organization that should there arise. And then I remembered the hall
in Harvard's museum of social ethics through which I pass to my lecture room when I speak on
the history of the Westward movement. That hall is covered with an exhibit of the work in Pittsburgh
steel mills, and of the congested tenements. Its charts and diagrams tell of the long hours
of work, the death rate, the relation of typhoid to the slums, the gathering of the poor of
all Southeastern Europe to make a civilization at that center of American industrial energy
and vast capital that is a social tragedy. As I enter my lecture room through that hall, I
speak of the young Washington leading his Virginia frontiersmen to the magnificent forest at
the forks of the Ohio. Where Braddock and his men, "carving a cross on the wilderness rim,"
were struck by the painted savages in the primeval woods, huge furnaces belch forth perpetual
fires and Huns and Bulgars, Poles and Sicilians struggle for a chance to earn their daily bread,
and live a brutal and degraded life.

But if there is disillusion and shock and apprehension as we come to realize these changes,
to strong men and women there is challenge and inspiration in them too. In place of old frontiers
of wilderness, there are new frontiers of unwon fields of science, fruitful for the needs of
the race; there are frontiers of better social domains yet unexplored. Let us hold to our attitude
of faith and courage, and creative zeal. Let us dream as our fathers dreamt and let us make
our dreams come true.

What were America's "morning wishes"? From the beginning of that long westward march of the
American people America has never been the home of mere contented materialism. It has continuously
sought new ways and dreamed of a perfected social type.

In the fifteenth century when men dealt with the New World which Columbus found, the ideal
of discovery was dominant. Here was placed within the reach of men whose ideas had been bounded
by the Atlantic, new realms to be explored. America became the land of European dreams, its
Fortunate Islands were made real, where, in the imagination of old Europe, peace and happiness,
as well as riches and eternal youth, were to be found. To Sir Edwin Sandys and his friends
of the London Company, Virginia offered an opportunity to erect the Republic for which they
had longed in vain in England. To the Puritans, New England was the new land of freedom, wherein
they might establish the institutions of God, according to their own faith. As the vision died
away in Virginia toward the close of the seventeenth century, it was taken up anew by the fiery
Bacon with his revolution to establish a real democracy in place of the rule of the planter
aristocracy, that formed along the coast. Hardly had he been overthrown when in the eighteenth
century, the democratic ideal was rejuvenated by the strong frontiersmen, who pressed beyond
the New England Coast into the Berkshires and up the valleys of the Green Mountains of Vermont,
and by the Scotch-Irish and German pioneers who followed the Great Valley from Pennsylvania
into the Upland South. In both the Yankee frontiersmen and the Scotch-Irish Presbyterians of
the South, the Calvinistic conception of the importance of the individual, bound by free covenant
to his fellow men and to God, was a compelling influence, and all their wilderness experience
combined to emphasize the ideals of opening new ways, of giving freer play to the individual,
and of constructing democratic society.

When the backwoodsmen crossed the Alleghanies they put between themselves and the Atlantic
Coast a barrier which seemed to separate them from a region already too much like the Europe
they had left, and as they followed the courses of the rivers that flowed to the Mississippi,
they called themselves "Men of the Western Waters," and their new home in the Mississippi Valley
was the "Western World." Here, by the thirties, Jacksonian democracy flourished, strong in
the faith of the intrinsic excellence of the common man, in his right to make his own place
in the world, and in his capacity to share in government. But while Jacksonian democracy demanded
these rights, it was also loyal to leadership as the very name implies. It was ready to follow
to the uttermost the man in whom it placed its trust, whether the hero were frontier fighter
or president, and it even rebuked and limited its own legislative representatives and recalled
its senators when they ran counter to their chosen executive. Jacksonian democracy was essentially
rural. It was based on the good fellowship and genuine social feeling of the frontier, in which
classes and inequalities of fortune played little part. But it did not demand equality of condition,
for there was abundance of natural resources and the belief that the self-made man had a right
to his success in the free competition which western life afforded, was as prominent in their
thought as was the love of democracy. On the other hand, they viewed governmental restraints
with suspicion as a limitation on their right to work out their own individuality.

For the banking institutions and capitalists of the East they had an instinctive antipathy.
Already they feared that the "money power" as Jackson called it, was planning to make hewers
of wood and drawers of water of the common people.

In this view they found allies among the labor leaders of the East, who in the same period
began their fight for better conditions of the wage earner. These Locofocos were the first
Americans to demand fundamental social changes for the benefit of the workers in the cities.
Like the Western pioneers, they protested against monopolies and special privilege. But they
also had a constructive policy, whereby society was to be kept democratic by free gifts of
the public land, so that surplus labor might not bid against itself, but might find an outlet
in the West. Thus to both the labor theorist and the practical pioneer, the existence of what
seemed inexhaustible cheap land and unpossessed resources was the condition of democracy. In
these years of the thirties and forties, Western democracy took on its distinctive form. Travelers
like De Tocqueville and Harriet Martineau, came to study and to report it enthusiastically
to Europe.

Side by side with this westward marching army of individualistic liberty-loving democratic
backwoodsmen, went a more northern stream of pioneers, who cherished similar ideas, but added
to them the desire to create new industrial centers, to build up factories, to build railroads,
and to develop the country by founding cities and extending prosperity. They were ready to
call upon legislatures to aid in this, by subscriptions to stock, grants of franchises, promotion
of banking and internal improvements. These were the Whig followers of that other Western leader,
Henry Clay, and their early strength lay in the Ohio Valley, and particularly among the well-to-do.
In the South their strength was found among the aristocracy of the Cotton Kingdom.

Both of these Western groups, Whigs and Democrats alike, had one common ideal: the desire to
leave their children a better heritage than they themselves had received, and both were fired
with devotion to the ideal of creating in this New World a home more worthy of mankind. Both
were ready to break with the past, to boldly strike out new lines of social endeavor, and both
believed in American expansion.

Before these tendencies had worked themselves out, three new forces entered. In the sudden
extension of our boundaries to the Pacific Coast, which took place in the forties, the nation
won so vast a domain that its resources seemed illimitable and its society seemed able to throw
off all its maladies by the very presence of these vast new spaces. At the same period the
great activity of railroad building to the Mississippi Valley occurred, making these lands
available and diverting attention to the task of economic construction. The third influence
was the slavery question which, becoming acute, shaped the American ideals and public discussion
for nearly a generation. Viewed from one angle, this struggle involved the great question of
national unity. From another it involved the question of the relations of labor and capital,
democracy and aristocracy. It was not without significance that Abraham Lincoln became the
very type of American pioneer democracy, the first adequate and elemental demonstration to
the world that that democracy could produce a man who belonged to the ages.

After the war, new national energies were set loose, and new construction and development engaged
the attention of the Westerners as they occupied prairies and Great Plains and mountains. Democracy
and capitalistic development did not seem antagonistic.

With the passing of the frontier, Western social and political ideals took new form. Capital
began to consolidate in even greater masses, and increasingly attempted to reduce to system
and control the processes of industrial development. Labor with equal step organized its forces
to destroy the old competitive system. It is not strange that the Western pioneers took alarm
for their ideals of democracy as the outcome of the free struggle for the national resources
became apparent. They espoused the cause of governmental activity.

It was a new gospel, for the Western radical became convinced that he must sacrifice his ideal
of individualism and free competition in order to maintain his ideal of democracy. Under this
conviction the Populist revised the pioneer conception of government. He saw in government
no longer something outside of him, but the people themselves shaping their own affairs. He
demanded therefore an extension of the powers of governments in the interest of his historic
ideal of democratic society. He demanded not only free silver, but the ownership of the agencies
of communication and transportation, the income tax, the postal savings bank, the provision
of means of credit for agriculture, the construction of more effective devices to express the
will of the people, primary nominations, direct elections, initiative, referendum and recall.
In a word, capital, labor, and the Western pioneer, all deserted the ideal of competitive individualism
in order to organize their interests in more effective combinations. The disappearance of the
frontier, the closing of the era which was marked by the influence of the West as a form of
society, brings with it new problems of social adjustment, new demands for considering our
past ideals and our present needs.

Let us recall the conditions of the foreign relations along our borders, the dangers that wait
us if we fail to unite in the solution of our domestic problems. Let us recall those internal
evidences of the destruction of our old social order. If we take to heart this warning, we
shall do well also to recount our historic ideals, to take stock of those purposes, and fundamental
assumptions that have gone to make the American spirit and the meaning of America in world history.

First of all, there was the ideal of discovery, the courageous determination to break new paths,
indifference to the dogma that because an institution or a condition exists, it must remain.
All American experience has gone to the making of the spirit of innovation; it is in the blood
and will not be repressed.

Then, there was the ideal of democracy, the ideal of a free self-directing people, responsive
to leadership in the forming of programs and their execution, but insistent that the procedure
should be that of free choice, not of compulsion.

But there was also the ideal of individualism. This democratic society was not a disciplined
army, where all must keep step and where the collective interests destroyed individual will
and work. Rather it was a mobile mass of freely circulating atoms, each seeking its own place
and finding play for its own powers and for its own original initiative. We cannot lay too
much stress upon this point, for it was at the very heart of the whole American movement. The
world was to be made a better world by the example of a democracy in which there was freedom
of the individual, in which there was the vitality and mobility productive of originality and
variety.

Bearing in mind the far-reaching influence of the disappearance of unlimited resources open
to all men for the taking, and considering the recoil of the common man when he saw the outcome
of the competitive struggle for these resources as the supply came to its end over most of
the nation, we can understand the reaction against individualism and in favor of drastic assertion
of the powers of government. Legislation is taking the place of the free lands as the means
of preserving the ideal of democracy. But at the same time it is endangering the other pioneer
ideal of creative and competitive individualism. Both were essential and constituted what was
best in America's contribution to history and to progress. Both must be preserved if the nation
would be true to its past, and would fulfil its highest destiny. It would be a grave misfortune
if these people so rich in experience, in self-confidence and aspiration, in creative genius,
should turn to some Old World discipline of socialism or plutocracy, or despotic rule, whether
by class or by dictator. Nor shall we be driven to these alternatives. Our ancient hopes, our
courageous faith, our underlying good humor and love of fair play will triumph in the end.
There will be give and take in all directions. There will be disinterested leadership, under
loyalty to the best American ideals. Nowhere is this leadership more likely to arise than among
the men trained in the Universities, aware of the promise of the past and the possibilities
of the future. The times call for new ambitions and new motives.

In a most suggestive essay on the Problems of Modern Democracy, Mr. Godkin has said:

     M. de Tocqueville and all his followers take it for granted
     that the great incentive to excellence, in all countries in
     which excellence is found, is the patronage and encouragement
     of an aristocracy; that democracy is generally content with
     mediocrity. But where is the proof of this? The incentive to
     exertion which is widest, most constant, and most powerful in
     its operations in all civilized countries, is the desire of
     distinction; and this may be composed either of love of fame
     or love of wealth or of both. In literary and artistic and
     scientific pursuits, sometimes the strongest influence is
     exerted by a love of the subject. But it may safely be said
     that no man has ever labored in any of the higher colleges to
     whom the applause and appreciation of his fellows was not one
     of the sweetest rewards of his exertions.

     What is there we would ask, in the nature of democratic
     institutions, that should render this great spring of action
     powerless, that should deprive glory of all radiance, and put
     ambition to sleep? Is it not notorious, on the contrary, that
     one of the most marked peculiarities of democratic society, or
     of a society drifting toward democracy, is the fire of
     competition which rages in it, the fevered anxiety which
     possesses all its members to rise above the dead level to
     which the law is ever seeking to confine them, and by some
     brilliant stroke become something higher and more remarkable
     than their fellows? The secret of that great restlessness
     which is one of the most disagreeable accompaniments of life
     in democratic countries, is in fact due to the eagerness of
     everybody to grasp the prizes of which in aristocratic
     countries, only the few have much chance. And in no other
     society is success more worshiped, is distinction of any kind
     more widely flattered and caressed.

     In democratic societies, in fact, excellence is the first
     title to distinction; in aristocratic ones there are two or
     three others which are far stronger and which must be stronger
     or aristocracy could not exist. The moment you acknowledge
     that the highest social position ought to be the reward of the
     man who has the most talent, you make aristocratic
     institutions impossible.

All that was buoyant and creative in American life would be lost if we gave up the respect
for distinct personality, and variety in genius, and came to the dead level of common standards.
To be "socialized into an average" and placed "under the tutelage of the mass of us," as a
recent writer has put it, would be an irreparable loss. Nor is it necessary in a democracy,
as these words of Godkin well disclose. What is needed is the multiplication of motives for
ambition and the opening of new lines of achievement for the strongest. As we turn from the
task of the first rough conquest of the continent there lies before us a whole wealth of unexploited
resources in the realm of the spirit. Arts and letters, science and better social creation,
loyalty and political service to the commonweal,--these and a thousand other directions of
activity are open to the men, who formerly under the incentive of attaining distinction by
amassing extraordinary wealth, saw success only in material display. Newer and finer careers
will open to the ambitious when once public opinion shall award the laurels to those who rise
above their fellows in these new fields of labor. It has not been the gold, but the getting
of the gold, that has caught the imaginations of our captains of industry. Their real enjoyment
lay not in the luxuries which wealth brought, but in the work of construction and in the place
which society awarded them. A new era will come if schools and universities can only widen
the intellectual horizon of the people, help to lay the foundations of a better industrial
life, show them new goals for endeavor, inspire them with more varied and higher ideals.

The Western spirit must be invoked for new and nobler achievements. Of that matured Western
spirit, Tennyson's Ulysses is a symbol.

     ". . . I am become a name
     For always roaming with an hungry heart,
     Much have I seen and known . . .
     I am a part of all that I have met;
     Yet all experience is an arch, where thro'
     Gleams that untravelled world, whose margin fades
     Forever and forever when I move.
     How dull it is to pause, to make an end,
     To rust unburnished, not to shine in use!

            *       *       *       *       *

     And this gray spirit yearning in desire
     To follow knowledge like a shining star
     Beyond the utmost hound of human thought.
     . . .

FOOTNOTES:

[290:1] Commencement Address, University of Washington, June 17, 1914. Reprinted by permission
from The Washington Historical Quarterly, October, 1914.

XII

SOCIAL FORCES IN AMERICAN HISTORY[311:1]

The transformations through which the United States is passing in our own day are so profound,
so far-reaching, that it is hardly an exaggeration to say that we are witnessing the birth
of a new nation in America. The revolution in the social and economic structure of this country
during the past two decades is comparable to what occurred when independence was declared and
the constitution was formed, or to the changes wrought by the era which began half a century
ago, the era of Civil War and Reconstruction.

These changes have been long in preparation and are, in part, the result of world-wide forces
of reorganization incident to the age of steam production and large-scale industry, and, in
part, the result of the closing of the period of the colonization of the West. They have been
prophesied, and the course of the movement partly described by students of American development;
but after all, it is with a shock that the people of the United States are coming to realize
that the fundamental forces which have shaped their society up to the present are disappearing.
Twenty years ago, as I have before had occasion to point out, the Superintendent of the Census
declared that the frontier line, which its maps had depicted for decade after decade of the
westward march of the nation, could no longer be described. To-day we must add that the age
of free competition of individuals for the unpossessed resources of the nation is nearing its
end. It is taking less than a generation to write the chapter which began with the disappearance
of the line of the frontier--the last chapter in the history of the colonization of the United
States, the conclusion to the annals of its pioneer democracy.

It is a wonderful chapter, this final rush of American energy upon the remaining wilderness.
Even the bare statistics become eloquent of a new era. They no longer derive their significance
from the exhibit of vast proportions of the public domain transferred to agriculture, of wildernesses
equal to European nations changed decade after decade into the farm area of the United States.
It is true there was added to the farms of the nation between 1870 and 1880 a territory equal
to that of France, and between 1880 and 1900 a territory equal to the European area of France,
Germany, England, and Wales combined. The records of 1910 are not yet available, but whatever
they reveal they will not be so full of meaning as the figures which tell of upleaping wealth
and organization and concentration of industrial power in the East in the last decade. As the
final provinces of the Western empire have been subdued to the purposes of civilization and
have yielded their spoils, as the spheres of operation of the great industrial corporations
have extended, with the extension of American settlement, production and wealth have increased
beyond all precedent.

The total deposits in all national banks have more than trebled in the present decade; the
money in circulation has doubled since 1890. The flood of gold makes it difficult to gage the
full meaning of the incredible increase in values, for in the decade ending with 1909 over
41,600,000 ounces of gold were mined in the United States alone. Over four million ounces have
been produced every year since 1905, whereas between 1880 and 1894 no year showed a production
of two million ounces. As a result of this swelling stream of gold and instruments of credit,
aided by a variety of other causes, prices have risen until their height has become one of
the most marked features and influential factors in American life, producing social readjustments
and contributing effectively to party revolutions.

But if we avoid those statistics which require analysis because of the changing standard of
value, we still find that the decade occupies an exceptional place in American history. More
coal was mined in the United States in the ten years after 1897 than in all the life of the
nation before that time.[313:1] Fifty years ago we mined less than fifteen million long tons
of coal. In 1907 we mined nearly 429,000,000. At the present rate it is estimated that the
supply of coal would be exhausted at a date no farther in the future than the formation of
the constitution is in the past. Iron and coal are the measures of industrial power. The nation
has produced three times as much iron ore in the past two decades as in all its previous history;
the production of the past ten years was more than double that of the prior decade. Pig-iron
production is admitted to be an excellent barometer of manufacture and of transportation. Never
until 1898 had this reached an annual total of ten million long tons. But in the five years
beginning with 1904 it averaged over twice that. By 1907 the United States had surpassed Great
Britain, Germany, and France combined in the production of pig-iron and steel together, and
in the same decade a single great corporation has established its domination over the iron
mines and steel manufacture of the United States. It is more than a mere accident that the
United States Steel Corporation with its stocks and bonds aggregating $1,400,000,000 was organized
at the beginning of the present decade. The former wilderness about Lake Superior has, principally
in the past two decades, established its position as overwhelmingly the preponderant source
of iron ore, present and prospective, in the United States--a treasury from which Pittsburgh
has drawn wealth and extended its unparalleled industrial empire in these years. The tremendous
energies thus liberated at this center of industrial power in the United States revolutionized
methods of manufacture in general, and in many indirect ways profoundly influenced the life
of the nation.

Railroad statistics also exhibit unprecedented development, the formation of a new industrial
society. The number of passengers carried one mile more than doubled between 1890 and 1908;
freight carried one mile has nearly trebled in the same period and has doubled in the past
decade. Agricultural products tell a different story. The corn crop has only risen from about
two billion bushels in 1891 to two and seven-tenths billions in 1909; wheat from six hundred
and eleven million bushels in 1891 to only seven hundred and thirty-seven million in 1909;
and cotton from about nine million bales in 1891 to ten and three-tenths million bales in 1909.
Population has increased in the United States proper from about sixty-two and one-half millions
in 1890 to seventy-five and one-half millions in 1900 and to over ninety millions in 1910.

It is clear from these statistics that the ratio of the nation's increased production of immediate
wealth by the enormously increased exploitation of its remaining natural resources vastly exceeds
the ratio of increase of population and still more strikingly exceeds the ratio of increase
of agricultural products. Already population is pressing upon the food supply while capital
consolidates in billion-dollar organizations. The "Triumphant Democracy" whose achievements
the iron-master celebrated has reached a stature even more imposing than he could have foreseen;
but still less did he perceive the changes in democracy itself and the conditions of its life
which have accompanied this material growth.

Having colonized the Far West, having mastered its internal resources, the nation turned at
the conclusion of the nineteenth and the beginning of the twentieth century to deal with the
Far East to engage in the world-politics of the Pacific Ocean. Having continued its historic
expansion into the lands of the old Spanish empire by the successful outcome of the recent
war, the United States became the mistress of the Philippines at the same time that it came
into possession of the Hawaiian Islands, and the controlling influence in the Gulf of Mexico.
It provided early in the present decade for connecting its Atlantic and Pacific coasts by the
Isthmian Canal, and became an imperial republic with dependencies and protectorates--admittedly
a new world-power, with a potential voice in the problems of Europe, Asia, and Africa.

This extension of power, this undertaking of grave responsibilities in new fields, this entry
into the sisterhood of world-states, was no isolated event. It was, indeed, in some respects
the logical outcome of the nation's march to the Pacific, the sequence to the era in which
it was engaged in occupying the free lands and exploiting the resources of the West. When it
had achieved this position among the nations of the earth, the United States found itself confronted,
also, with the need of constitutional readjustment, arising from the relations of federal government
and territorial acquisitions. It was obliged to reconsider questions of the rights of man and
traditional American ideals of liberty and democracy, in view of the task of government of
other races politically inexperienced and undeveloped.

If we turn to consider the effect upon American society and domestic policy in these two decades
of transition we are met with palpable evidences of the invasion of the old pioneer democratic
order. Obvious among them is the effect of unprecedented immigration to supply the mobile army
of cheap labor for the centers of industrial life. In the past ten years, beginning with 1900,
over eight million immigrants have arrived. The newcomers of the eight years since 1900 would,
according to a writer in 1908, "repopulate all the five older New England States as they stand
to-day; or, if properly disseminated over the newer parts of the country they would serve to
populate no less than nineteen states of the Union as they stand." In 1907 "there were one
and one-quarter million arrivals. This number would entirely populate both New Hampshire and
Maine, two of our oldest States." "The arrivals of this one year would found a State with more
inhabitants than any one of twenty-one of our other existing commonwealths which could be named."
Not only has the addition to the population from Europe been thus extraordinary, it has come
in increasing measure from southern and eastern Europe. For the year 1907, Professor Ripley,[316:1]
whom I am quoting, has redistributed the incomers on the basis of physical type and finds that
one-quarter of them were of the Mediterranean race, one-quarter of the Slavic race, one-eighth
Jewish, and only one-sixth of the Alpine, and one-sixth of the Teutonic. In 1882 Germans had
come to the amount of 250,000; in 1907 they were replaced by 330,000 South Italians. Thus it
is evident that the ethnic elements of the United States have undergone startling changes;
and instead of spreading over the nation these immigrants have concentrated especially in the
cities and great industrial centers in the past decade. The composition of the labor class
and its relation to wages and to the native American employer have been deeply influenced thereby;
the sympathy of the employers with labor has been unfavorably affected by the pressure of great
numbers of immigrants of alien nationality and of lower standards of life.

The familiar facts of the massing of population in the cities and the contemporaneous increase
of urban power, and of the massing of capital and production in fewer and vastly greater industrial
units, especially attest the revolution. Possibly both of these Pennsylvania financiers were
right under the conditions of the time; but it is at least significant that capital and labor
entered upon a new era as the end of the free lands approached. A contemporary of Gallatin
in Congress had replied to the argument that cheap lands would depopulate the Atlantic coast
by saying that if a law were framed to prevent ready access to western lands it would be tantamount
to saying that there is some class which must remain "and by law be obliged to serve the others
for such wages as they pleased to give." The passage of the arable public domain into private
possession has raised this question in a new form and has brought forth new answers. This is
peculiarly the era when competitive individualism in the midst of vast unappropriated opportunities
changed into the monopoly of the fundamental industrial processes by huge aggregations of capital
as the free lands disappeared. All the tendencies of the large-scale production of the twentieth
century, all the trend to the massing of capital in large combinations, all of the energies
of the age of steam, found in America exceptional freedom of action and were offered regions
of activity equal to the states of all Western Europe. Here they reached their highest development.

The decade following 1897 is marked by the work of Mr. Harriman and his rivals in building
up the various railroads into a few great groups, a process that had gone so far that before
his death Mr. Harriman was ambitious to concentrate them all under his single control. High
finance under the leadership of Mr. Morgan steadily achieved the consolidation of the greater
industries into trusts or combinations and effected a community of interests between them and
a few dominant banking organizations, with allied insurance companies and trust companies.
In New York City have been centered, as never before, the banking reserves of the nation, and
here, by the financial management of capital and speculative promotion, there has grown up
a unified control over the nation's industrial life. Colossal private fortunes have arisen.
No longer is the per capita wealth of the nation a real index to the prosperity of the average
man. Labor on the other hand has shown an increasing self-consciousness, is combining and increasing
its demands. In a word, the old pioneer individualism is disappearing, while the forces of
social combination are manifesting themselves as never before. The self-made man has become,
in popular speech, the coal baron, the steel king, the oil king, the cattle king, the railroad
magnate, the master of high finance, the monarch of trusts. The world has never before seen
such huge fortunes exercising combined control over the economic life of a people, and such
luxury as has come out of the individualistic pioneer democracy of America in the course of
competitive evolution.

At the same time the masters of industry, who control interests which represent billions of
dollars, do not admit that they have broken with pioneer ideals. They regard themselves as
pioneers under changed conditions, carrying on the old work of developing the natural resources
of the nation, compelled by the constructive fever in their veins, even in ill-health and old
age and after the accumulation of wealth beyond their power to enjoy, to seek new avenues of
action and of power, to chop new clearings, to find new trails, to expand the horizon of the
nation's activity, and to extend the scope of their dominion. "This country," said the late
Mr. Harriman in an interview a few years ago, "has been developed by a wonderful people, flush
with enthusiasm, imagination and speculative bent. . . . They have been magnificent pioneers.
They saw into the future and adapted their work to the possibilities. . . . Stifle that enthusiasm,
deaden that imagination and prohibit that speculation by restrictive and cramping conservative
law, and you tend to produce a moribund and conservative people and country." This is an appeal
to the historic ideals of Americans who viewed the republic as the guardian of individual freedom
to compete for the control of the natural resources of the nation.

On the other hand, we have the voice of the insurgent West, recently given utterance in the
New Nationalism of ex-President Roosevelt, demanding increase of federal authority to curb
the special interests, the powerful industrial organizations, and the monopolies, for the sake
of the conservation of our natural resources and the preservation of American democracy.

The past decade has witnessed an extraordinary federal activity in limiting individual and
corporate freedom for the benefit of society. To that decade belong the conservation congresses
and the effective organization of the Forest Service, and the Reclamation Service. Taken together
these developments alone would mark a new era, for over three hundred million acres are, as
a result of this policy, reserved from entry and sale, an area more than equal to that of all
the states which established the constitution, if we exclude their western claims; and these
reserved lands are held for a more beneficial use of their forests, minerals, arid tracts,
and water rights, by the nation as a whole. Another example is the extension of the activity
of the Department of Agriculture, which seeks the remotest regions of the earth for crops suitable
to the areas reclaimed by the government, maps and analyzes the soils, fosters the improvement
of seeds and animals, tells the farmer when and how and what to plant, and makes war upon diseases
of plants and animals and insect pests. The recent legislation for pure food and meat inspection,
and the whole mass of regulative law under the Interstate Commerce clause of the constitution,
further illustrates the same tendency.

Two ideals were fundamental in traditional American thought, ideals that developed in the pioneer
era. One was that of individual freedom to compete unrestrictedly for the resources of a continent--the
squatter ideal. To the pioneer government was an evil. The other was the ideal of a democracy--"government
of the people, by the people and for the people." The operation of these ideals took place
contemporaneously with the passing into private possession of the free public domain and the
natural resources of the United States. But American democracy was based on an abundance of
free lands; these were the very conditions that shaped its growth and its fundamental traits.
Thus time has revealed that these two ideals of pioneer democracy had elements of mutual hostility
and contained the seeds of its dissolution. The present finds itself engaged in the task of
readjusting its old ideals to new conditions and is turning increasingly to government to preserve
its traditional democracy. It is not surprising that socialism shows noteworthy gains as elections
continue; that parties are forming on new lines; that the demand for primary elections, for
popular choice of senators, initiative, referendum, and recall, is spreading, and that the
regions once the center of pioneer democracy exhibit these tendencies in the most marked degree.
They are efforts to find substitutes for that former safeguard of democracy, the disappearing
free lands. They are the sequence to the extinction of the frontier.

It is necessary next to notice that in the midst of all this national energy, and contemporaneous
with the tendency to turn to the national government for protection to democracy, there is
clear evidence of the persistence and the development of sectionalism.[321:1] Whether we observe
the grouping of votes in Congress and in general elections, or the organization and utterances
of business leaders, or the association of scholars, churches, or other representatives of
the things of the spirit, we find that American life is not only increasing in its national
intensity but that it is integrating by sections. In part this is due to the factor of great
spaces which make sectional rather than national organization the line of least resistance;
but, in part, it is also the expression of the separate economic, political, and social interests
and the separate spiritual life of the various geographic provinces or sections. The votes
on the tariff, and in general the location of the strongholds of the Progressive Republican
movement, illustrate this fact. The difficulty of a national adjustment of railway rates to
the diverse interests of different sections is another example. Without attempting to enter
upon a more extensive discussion of sectionalism, I desire simply to point out that there are
evidences that now, as formerly, the separate geographical interests have their leaders and
spokesmen, that much Congressional legislation is determined by the contests, triumphs, or
compromises between the rival sections, and that the real federal relations of the United States
are shaped by the interplay of sectional with national forces rather than by the relation of
State and Nation. As time goes on and the nation adjusts itself more durably to the conditions
of the differing geographic sections which make it up, they are coming to a new self-consciousness
and a revived self-assertion. Our national character is a composite of these sections.[322:1]

Obviously in attempting to indicate even a portion of the significant features of our recent
history we have been obliged to take note of a complex of forces. The times are so close at
hand that the relations between events and tendencies force themselves upon our attention.
We have had to deal with the connections of geography, industrial growth, politics, and government.
With these we must take into consideration the changing social composition, the inherited beliefs
and habitual attitude of the masses of the people, the psychology of the nation and of the
separate sections, as well as of the leaders. We must see how these leaders are shaped partly
by their time and section, and how they are in part original, creative, by virtue of their
own genius and initiative. We cannot neglect the moral tendencies and the ideals. All are related
parts of the same subject and can no more be properly understood in isolation than the movement
as a whole can be understood by neglecting some of these important factors, or by the use of
a single method of investigation. Whatever be the truth regarding European history, American
history is chiefly concerned with social forces, shaping and reshaping under the conditions
of a nation changing as it adjusts to its environment. And this environment progressively reveals
new aspects of itself, exerts new influences, and calls out new social organs and functions.

I have undertaken this rapid survey of recent history for two purposes. First, because it has
seemed fitting to emphasize the significance of American development since the passing of the
frontier, and, second, because in the observation of present conditions we may find assistance
in our study of the past.

It is a familiar doctrine that each age studies its history anew and with interests determined
by the spirit of the time. Each age finds it necessary to reconsider at least some portion
of the past, from points of view furnished by new conditions which reveal the influence and
significance of forces not adequately known by the historians of the previous generation. Unquestionably
each investigator and writer is influenced by the times in which he lives and while this fact
exposes the historian to a bias, at the same time it affords him new instruments and new insight
for dealing with his subject.

If recent history, then, gives new meaning to past events, if it has to deal with the rise
into a commanding position of forces, the origin and growth of which may have been inadequately
described or even overlooked by historians of the previous generation, it is important to study
the present and the recent past, not only for themselves but also as the source of new hypotheses,
new lines of inquiry, new criteria of the perspective of the remoter past. And, moreover, a
just public opinion and a statesmanlike treatment of present problems demand that they be seen
in their historical relations in order that history may hold the lamp for conservative reform.

Seen from the vantage-ground of present developments what new light falls upon past events!
When we consider what the Mississippi Valley has come to be in American life, and when we consider
what it is yet to be, the young Washington, crossing the snows of the wilderness to summon
the French to evacuate the portals of the great valley, becomes the herald of an empire. When
we recall the huge industrial power that has centered at Pittsburgh, Braddock's advance to
the forks of the Ohio takes on new meaning. Even in defeat, he opened a road to what is now
the center of the world's industrial energy. The modifications which England proposed in 1794
to John Jay in the northwestern boundary of the United States from the Lake of the Woods to
the Mississippi, seemed to him, doubtless, significant chiefly as a matter of principle and
as a question of the retention or loss of beaver grounds. The historians hardly notice the
proposals. But they involved, in fact, the ownership of the richest and most extensive deposits
of iron ore in America, the all-important source of a fundamental industry of the United States,
the occasion for the rise of some of the most influential forces of our time.

What continuity and meaning are furnished by the outcome in present times of the movements
of minor political parties and reform agitations! To the historian they have often seemed to
be mere curious side eddies, vexatious distractions to the course of his literary craft as
it navigated the stream of historical tendency. And yet, by the revelation of the present,
what seemed to be side eddies have not seldom proven to be the concealed entrances to the main
current, and the course which seemed the central one has led to blind channels and stagnant
waters, important in their day, but cut off like oxbow lakes from the mighty river of historical
progress by the mere permanent and compelling forces of the neglected currents.

We may trace the contest between the capitalist and the democratic pioneer from the earliest
colonial days. It is influential in colonial parties. It is seen in the vehement protests of
Kentucky frontiersmen in petition after petition to the Congress of the Confederation against
the "nabobs" and men of wealth who took out titles to the pioneers' farms while they themselves
were too busy defending those farms from the Indians to perfect their claims. It is seen in
the attitude of the Ohio Valley in its backwoods days before the rise of the Whig party, as
when in 1811 Henry Clay denounced the Bank of the United States as a corporation which throve
on special privileges--"a special association of favored individuals taken from the mass of
society, and invested with exemptions and surrounded by immunities and privileges." Benton
voiced the same contest twenty years later when he denounced the bank as

     a company of private individuals, many of them foreigners, and
     the mass of them residing in a remote and narrow corner of the
     Union, unconnected by any sympathy with the fertile regions of
     the Great Valley in which the natural power of this Union, the
     power of numbers, will be found to reside long before the
     renewed term of the second charter would expire.

"And where," he asked, "would all this power and money center? In the great cities of the Northeast,
which have been for forty years and that by force of federal legislation, the lion's den of
Southern and Western money--that den into which all the tracks point inward; from which the
returning track of a solitary dollar has never yet been seen." Declaring, in words that have
a very modern sound, that the bank tended to multiply nabobs and paupers, and that "a great
moneyed power is favorable to great capitalists, for it is the principle of capital to favor
capital," he appealed to the fact of the country's extent and its sectional divergences against
the nationalizing of capital.

     What a condition for a confederacy of states! What grounds for
     alarm and terrible apprehension when in a confederacy of such
     vast extent, so many rival commercial cities, so much
     sectional jealousy, such violent political parties, such
     fierce contests for power, there should be but one moneyed
     tribunal before which all the rival and contending elements
     must appear.

Even more vehement were the words of Jackson in 1837.

Van Buren's administration is usually passed hastily over with hardly more than mention of
his Independent Treasury plan, and with particular consideration of the slavery discussion.
But some of the most important movements in American social and political history began in
these years of Jackson and Van Buren. Read the demands of the obscure labor papers and the
reports of labor's open-air meetings anew, and you will find in the utterances of so-called
labor visionaries and the Locofoco champions of "equal rights for all and special privileges
for none," like Evans and Jacques, Byrdsall and Leggett, the finger points to the currents
that now make the main channel of our history; you will find in them some of the important
planks of the platforms of the triumphant parties of our own day. As Professor Commons has
shown by his papers and the documents which he has published on labor history, an idealistic
but widespread and influential humanitarian movement, strikingly similar to that of the present,
arose in the years between 1830 and 1850, dealing with social forces in American life, animated
by a desire to apply the public lands to social amelioration, eager to find new forms of democratic
development. But the flood of the slavery struggle swept all of these movements into its mighty
inundation for the time. After the war, other influences delayed the revival of the movement.
The railroads opened the wide prairies after 1850 and made it easy to reach them; and decade
after decade new sections were reduced to the purposes of civilization and to the advantages
of the common man as well as the promotion of great individual fortunes. The nation centered
its interests in the development of the West. It is only in our own day that this humanitarian
democratic wave has reached the level of those earlier years. But in the meantime there are
clear evidences of the persistence of the forces, even though under strange guise. Read the
platforms of the Greenback-Labor, the Granger, and the Populist parties, and you will find
in those platforms, discredited and reprobated by the major parties of the time, the basic
proposals of the Democratic party after its revolution under the leadership of Mr. Bryan, and
of the Republican party after its revolution by Mr. Roosevelt. The Insurgent movement is so
clearly related to the areas and elements that gave strength to this progressive assertion
of old democratic ideals with new weapons, that it must be regarded as the organized refusal
of these persistent tendencies to be checked by the advocates of more moderate measures.

I have dealt with these fragments of party history, not, of course, with the purpose of expressing
any present judgment upon them, but to emphasize and give concreteness to the fact that there
is disclosed by present events a new significance to these contests of radical democracy and
conservative interests; that they are rather a continuing expression of deep-seated forces
than fragmentary and sporadic curios for the historical museum.

If we should survey the history of our lands from a similar point of view, considering the
relations of legislation and administration of the public domain to the structure of American
democracy, it would yield a return far beyond that offered by the formal treatment of the subject
in most of our histories. We should find in the squatter doctrines and practices, the seizure
of the best soils, the taking of public timber on the theory of a right to it by the labor
expended on it, fruitful material for understanding the atmosphere and ideals under which the
great corporations developed the West. Men like Senator Benton and Delegate Sibley in successive
generations defended the trespasses of the pioneer and the lumberman upon the public forest
lands, and denounced the paternal government that "harassed" these men, who were engaged in
what we should call stealing government timber. It is evident that at some time between the
middle of the nineteenth century and the present time, when we impose jail sentences upon Congressmen
caught in such violations of the land laws, a change came over the American conscience and
the civic ideals were modified. That our great industrial enterprises developed in the midst
of these changing ideals is important to recall when we write the history of their activity.

We should find also that we cannot understand the land question without seeing its relations
to the struggle of sections and classes bidding against each other and finding in the public
domain a most important topic of political bargaining. We should find, too, that the settlement
of unlike geographic areas in the course of the nation's progress resulted in changes in the
effect of the land laws; that a system intended for the humid prairies was ill-adjusted to
the grazing lands and coal fields and to the forests in the days of large-scale exploitation
by corporations commanding great capital. Thus changing geographic factors as well as the changing
character of the forces which occupied the public domain must be considered, if we would understand
the bearing of legislation and policy in this field.[329:1] It is fortunate that suggestive
studies of democracy and the land policy have already begun to appear.

The whole subject of American agriculture viewed in relation to the economic, political, and
social life of the nation has important contributions to make. If, for example, we study the
maps showing the transition of the wheat belt from the East to the West, as the virgin soils
were conquered and made new bases for destructive competition with the older wheat States,
we shall see how deeply they affected not only land values, railroad building, the movement
of population, and the supply of cheap food, but also how the regions once devoted to single
cropping of wheat were forced to turn to varied and intensive agriculture and to diversified
industry, and we shall see also how these transformations affected party politics and even
the ideals of the Americans of the regions thus changed. We shall find in the over-production
of wheat in the provinces thus rapidly colonized, and in the over-production of silver in the
mountain provinces which were contemporaneously exploited, important explanations of the peculiar
form which American politics took in the period when Mr. Bryan mastered the Democratic party,
just as we shall find in the opening of the new gold fields in the years immediately following,
and in the passing of the era of almost free virgin wheat soils, explanations of the more recent
period when high prices are giving new energy and aggressiveness to the demands of the new
American industrial democracy.

Enough has been said, it may be assumed, to make clear the point which I am trying to elucidate,
namely that a comprehension of the United States of to-day, an understanding of the rise and
progress of the forces which have made it what it is, demands that we should rework our history
from the new points of view afforded by the present. If this is done, it will be seen, for
example, that the progress of the struggle between North and South over slavery and the freed
negro, which held the principal place in American interest in the two decades after 1850, was,
after all, only one of the interests in the time. The pages of the Congressional debates, the
contemporary newspapers, the public documents of those twenty years, remain a rich mine for
those who will seek therein the sources of movements dominant in the present day.

The final consideration to which I ask your attention in this discussion of social forces in
American life, is with reference to the mode of investigating them and the bearing of these
investigations upon the relations and the goal of history. It has become a precedent, fairly
well established by the distinguished scholars who have held the office which I am about to
lay down, to state a position with reference to the relations of history and its sister-studies,
and even to raise the question of the attitude of the historian toward the laws of thermodynamics
and to seek to find the key of historical development or of historical degradation. It is not
given to all to bend the bow of Ulysses. I shall attempt a lesser task.

We may take some lessons from the scientist. He has enriched knowledge especially in recent
years by attacking the no-man's lands left unexplored by the too sharp delimitation of spheres
of activity. These new conquests have been especially achieved by the combination of old sciences.
Physical chemistry, electro-chemistry, geo-physics, astro-physics, and a variety of other scientic
unions have led to audacious hypotheses, veritable flashes of vision, which open new regions
of activity for a generation of investigators. Moreover they have promoted such investigations
by furnishing new instruments of research. Now in some respects there is an analogy between
geology and history. The new geologist aims to describe the inorganic earth dynamically in
terms of natural law, using chemistry, physics, mathematics, and even botany and zoölogy so
far as they relate to paleontology. But he does not insist that the relative importance of
physical or chemical factors shall be determined before he applies the methods and data of
these sciences to his problem. Indeed, he has learned that a geological area is too complex
a thing to be reduced to a single explanation. He has abandoned the single hypothesis for the
multiple hypothesis. He creates a whole family of possible explanations of a given problem
and thus avoids the warping influence of partiality for a simple theory.

Have we not here an illustration of what is possible and necessary for the historian? Is it
not well, before attempting to decide whether history requires an economic interpretation,
or a psychological, or any other ultimate interpretation, to recognize that the factors in
human society are varied and complex; that the political historian handling his subject in
isolation is certain to miss fundamental facts and relations in his treatment of a given age
or nation; that the economic historian is exposed to the same danger; and so of all of the
other special historians?

Those who insist that history is simply the effort to tell the thing exactly as it was, to
state the facts, are confronted with the difficulty that the fact which they would represent
is not planted on the solid ground of fixed conditions; it is in the midst and is itself a
part of the changing currents, the complex and interacting influences of the time, deriving
its significance as a fact from its relations to the deeper-seated movements of the age, movements
so gradual that often only the passing years can reveal the truth about the fact and its right
to a place on the historian's page.

The economic historian is in danger of making his analysis and his statement of a law on the
basis of present conditions and then passing to history for justificatory appendixes to his
conclusions. An American economist of high rank has recently expressed his conception of "the
full relation of economic theory, statistics, and history" in these words:

     A principle is formulated by a priori reasoning concerning
     facts of common experience; it is then tested by statistics
     and promoted to the rank of a known and acknowledged truth;
     illustrations of its action are then found in narrative
     history and, on the other hand, the economic law becomes the
     interpreter of records that would otherwise be confusing and
     comparatively valueless; the law itself derives its final
     confirmation from the illustrations of its working which the
     records afford; but what is at least of equal importance is
     the parallel fact that the law affords the decisive test of
     the correctness of those assertions concerning the causes and
     the effects of past events which it is second nature to make
     and which historians almost invariably do make in connection
     with their narrations.[333:1]

There is much in this statement by which the historian may profit, but he may doubt also whether
the past should serve merely as the "illustration" by which to confirm the law deduced from
common experience by a priori reasoning tested by statistics. In fact the pathway of history
is strewn with the wrecks of the "known and acknowledged truths" of economic law, due not only
to defective analysis and imperfect statistics, but also to the lack of critical historical
methods, of insufficient historical-mindedness on the part of the economist, to failure to
give due attention to the relativity and transiency of the conditions from which his laws were
deduced.

But the point on which I would lay stress is this. The economist, the political scientist,
the psychologist, the sociologist, the geographer, the student of literature, of art, of religion--all
the allied laborers in the study of society--have contributions to make to the equipment of
the historian. These contributions are partly of material, partly of tools, partly of new points
of view, new hypotheses, new suggestions of relations, causes, and emphasis. Each of these
special students is in some danger of bias by his particular point of view, by his exposure
to see simply the thing in which he is primarily interested, and also by his effort to deduce
the universal laws of his separate science. The historian, on the other hand, is exposed to
the danger of dealing with the complex and interacting social forces of a period or of a country,
from some single point of view to which his special training or interest inclines him. If the
truth is to be made known, the historian must so far familiarize himself with the work, and
equip himself with the training of his sister-subjects that he can at least avail himself of
their results and in some reasonable degree master the essential tools of their trade. And
the followers of the sister-studies must likewise familiarize themselves and their students
with the work and the methods of the historians, and coöperate in the difficult task.

It is necessary that the American historian shall aim at this equipment, not so much that he
may possess the key to history or satisfy himself in regard to its ultimate laws. At present
a different duty is before him. He must see in American society with its vast spaces, its sections
equal to European nations, its geographic influences, its brief period of development, its
variety of nationalities and races, its extraordinary industrial growth under the conditions
of freedom, its institutions, culture, ideals, social psychology, and even its religions forming
and changing almost under his eyes, one of the richest fields ever offered for the preliminary
recognition and study of the forces that operate and interplay in the making of society.

FOOTNOTES:

[311:1] Annual address as the president of the American Historical Association, delivered at
Indianapolis, December 28, 1910. Reprinted by permission from The American Historical Review,
January, 1911.

[313:1] Van Hise, "Conservation of Natural Resources," pp. 23, 24.

[316:1] Atlantic Monthly, December, 1908, vii, p. 745.

[317:1] [Although the words of these early land debates are quoted above in Chapter VI, they
are repeated because of the light they cast upon the present problem.]

[321:1] [I have outlined this subject in various essays, including the article on "Sectionalism"
in McLaughlin and Hart, "Cyclopedia of Government."]

[322:1] [It is not impossible that they may ultimately replace the State as the significant
administrative and legislative units. There are strong evidences of this tendency, such as
the organization of the Federal Reserve districts, and proposals for railroad administration
by regions.]

[329:1] [See R. G. Wellington, "Public Lands, 1820-1840"; G. M. Stephenson, "Public Lands,
1841-1862"; J. Ise, "Forest Policy."]

[333:1] Professor J. B. Clark, in Commons, ed., "Documentary History of American Industrial
Society," I. 43-44.

XIII

MIDDLE WESTERN PIONEER DEMOCRACY[335:1]

In time of war, when all that this nation has stood for, all the things in which it passionately
believes, are at stake, we have met to dedicate this beautiful home for history.

There is a fitness in the occasion. It is for historic ideals that we are fighting. If this
nation is one for which we should pour out our savings, postpone our differences, go hungry,
and even give up life itself, it is not because it is a rich, extensive, well-fed and populous
nation; it is because from its early days America has pressed onward toward a goal of its own;
that it has followed an ideal, the ideal of a democracy developing under conditions unlike
those of any other age or country.

We are fighting not for an Old World ideal, not for an abstraction, not for a philosophical
revolution. Broad and generous as are our sympathies, widely scattered in origin as are our
people, keenly as we feel the call of kinship, the thrill of sympathy with the stricken nations
across the Atlantic, we are fighting for the historic ideals of the United States, for the
continued existence of the type of society in which we believe, because we have proved it good,
for the things which drew European exiles to our shores, and which inspired the hopes of the
pioneers.

We are at war that the history of the United States, rich with the record of high human purposes,
and of faith in the destiny of the common man under freedom, filled with the promises of a
better world, may not become the lost and tragic story of a futile dream.

Yes, it is an American ideal and an American example for which we fight; but in that ideal
and example lies medicine for the healing of the nations. It is the best we have to give to
Europe, and it is a matter of vital import that we shall safeguard and preserve our power to
serve the world, and not be overwhelmed in the flood of imperialistic force that wills the
death of democracy and would send the freeman under the yoke. Essential as are our contributions
of wealth, the work of our scientists, the toil of our farmers and our workmen in factory and
shipyard, priceless as is the stream of young American manhood which we pour forth to stop
the flood which flows like moulten lava across the green fields and peaceful hamlets of Europe
toward the sea and turns to ashes and death all that it covers, these contributions have their
deeper meaning in the American spirit. They are born of the love of Democracy.

Shortly before the Civil War, a great German, exiled from his native land for his love of freedom,
came from his new home among the pioneers of the Middle West to set forth in Faneuil Hall,
the "cradle of liberty," in Boston, his vision of the young America that was forming in the
West, "the last depository of the hopes of all true friends of humanity." Speaking of the contrast
between the migrations to the Mississippi Valley and those of the Old World in other centuries,
he said:

     It is now not a barbarous multitude pouncing upon old and
     decrepit empires, not a violent concussion of tribes
     accompanied by all the horrors of general destruction, but we
     see the vigorous elements--peaceably congregating and mingling
     together on virgin soil--; led together by the irresistible
     attraction of free and broad principles; undertaking to
     commence a new era in the history of the world, without first
     destroying the results of the progress of past periods;
     undertaking to found a cosmopolitan nation without marching
     over the dead bodies of slain millions.

If Carl Schurz had lived to see the outcome of that Germany from which he was sent as an exile,
in the days when Prussian bayonets dispersed the legislatures and stamped out the beginnings
of democratic rule in his former country, could he have better pictured the contrasts between
the Prussian and the American spirit? He went on to say:

     Thus was founded the great colony of free humanity, which
     has not old England alone, but the world for its mother
     country. And in the colony of free humanity, whose mother
     country is the world, they established the Republic of equal
     rights where the title of manhood is the title to citizenship.
     My friends, if I had a thousand tongues, and a voice as strong
     as the thunder of heaven, they would not be sufficient to
     impress upon your minds forcibly enough the greatness of this
     idea, the overshadowing glory of this result. This was the
     dream of the truest friends of man from the beginning; for
     this the noblest blood of martyrs has been shed; for this has
     mankind waded through seas of blood and tears. There it is
     now; there it stands, the noble fabric in all the splendor of
     reality.

It is in a solemn and inspiring time, therefore, that we meet to dedicate this building, and
the occasion is fitting to the time. We may now see, as never before, the deeper significance,
the larger meaning of these pioneers, whose plain lives and homely annals are glorified as
a part of the story of the building of a better system of social justice under freedom, a broader,
and as we fervently hope, a more enduring foundation for the welfare and progress under individual
liberty of the common man, an example of federation, of peaceful adjustments by compromise
and concession under a self-governing Republic, where sections replace nations over a Union
as large as Europe, where party discussions take the place of warring countries, where the
Pax Americana furnishes an example for a better world.

As our forefathers, the pioneers, gathered in their neighborhood to raise the log cabin, and
sanctified it by the name of home, the dwelling place of pioneer ideals, so we meet to celebrate
the raising of this home, this shrine of Minnesota's historic life. It symbolizes the conviction
that the past and the future of this people are tied together; that this Historical Society
is the keeper of the records of a noteworthy movement in the progress of mankind; that these
records are not unmeaning and antiquarian, but even in their details are worthy of preservation
for their revelation of the beginnings of society in the midst of a nation caught by the vision
of a better future for the world.

And recall her appeal to the American people to "cherish their high democratic hope, their
faith in man. The older they grow the more they must reverence the dreams of their youth."

The dreams of their youth! Here they shall be preserved, and the achievements as well as the
aspirations of the men who made the State, the men who built on their foundations, the men
with large vision and power of action, the lesser men in the mass, the leaders who served the
State and nation with devotion to the cause. Here shall be preserved the record of the men
who failed to see the larger vision and worked impatiently with narrow or selfish or class
ends, as well as of those who labored with patience and sympathy and mutual concession, with
readiness to make adjustments and to subordinate their immediate interests to the larger good
and the immediate safety of the nation.

In the archives of such an old institution as that of the Historical Society of Massachusetts,
whose treasures run to the beginnings of the Puritan colonization, the students cannot fail
to find the evidence that a State Historical Society is a Book of Judgment wherein is made
up the record of a people and its leaders. So, as time unfolds, shall be the collections of
this Society, the depository of the material that shall preserve the memory of this people.
Each section of this widely extended and varied nation has its own peculiar past, its special
form of society, its traits and its leaders. It were a pity if any section left its annals
solely to the collectors of a remote region, and it were a pity if its collections were not
transformed into printed documents and monographic studies which can go to the libraries of
all the parts of the Union and thus enable the student to see the nation as a whole in its
past as well as in its present.

This Society finds its special field of activity in a great State of the Middle West, so new,
as history reckons time, that its annals are still predominantly those of the pioneers, but
so rapidly growing that already the era of the pioneers is a part of the history of the past,
capable of being handled objectively, seen in a perspective that is not possible to the observer
of the present conditions.

Because of these facts I have taken as the special theme of this address the Middle Western
Pioneer Democracy, which I would sketch in some of its outstanding aspects, and chiefly in
the generation before the Civil War, for it was from those pioneers that the later colonization
to the newer parts of the Mississippi Valley derived much of their traits, and from whom large
numbers of them came.

The North Central States as a whole is a region comparable to all of Central Europe. Of these
States, a large part of the old Northwest,--Ohio, Indiana, Illinois, Michigan and Wisconsin;
and their sisters beyond the Mississippi--Missouri, Iowa and Minnesota--were still, in the
middle of the nineteenth century, the home of an essentially pioneer society. Within the lifetime
of many living men, Wisconsin was called the "Far West," and Minnesota was a land of the Indian
and the fur traders, a wilderness of forest and prairie beyond the "edge of cultivation." That
portion of this great region which was still in the pioneering period of settlement by 1850
was alone about as extensive as the old thirteen States, or Germany and Austria-Hungary combined.
The region was a huge geographic mold for a new society, modeled by nature on the scale of
the Great Lakes, the Ohio Valley, the upper Mississippi and the Missouri. Simple and majestic
in its vast outlines it was graven into a variety that in its detail also had a largeness of
design. From the Great Lakes extended the massive glacial sheet which covered that mighty basin
and laid down treasures of soil. Vast forests of pine shrouded its upper zone, breaking into
hardwood and the oak openings as they neared the ocean-like expanses of the prairies. Forests
again along the Ohio Valley, and beyond, to the west, lay the levels of the Great Plains. Within
the earth were unexploited treasures of coal and lead, copper and iron in such form and quantity
as were to revolutionize the industrial processes of the world. But nature's revelations are
progressive, and it was rather the marvelous adaptation of the soil to the raising of corn
and wheat that drew the pioneers to this land of promise, and made a new era of colonization.
In the unity with variety of this pioneer empire and in its broad levels we have a promise
of its society.

First had come the children of the interior of the South, and with ax and rifle in hand had
cut their clearings in the forest, raised their log cabins, fought the Indians and by 1830
had pushed their way to the very edge of the prairies along the Ohio and Missouri Valleys,
leaving unoccupied most of the Basin of the Great Lakes.

These slashers of the forest, these self-sufficing pioneers, raising the corn and live stock
for their own need, living scattered and apart, had at first small interest in town life or
a share in markets. They were passionately devoted to the ideal of equality, but it was an
ideal which assumed that under free conditions in the midst of unlimited resources, the homogeneous
society of the pioneers must result in equality. What they objected to was arbitrary obstacles,
artificial limitations upon the freedom of each member of this frontier folk to work out his
own career without fear or favor. What they instinctively opposed was the crystallization of
differences, the monopolization of opportunity and the fixing of that monopoly by government
or by social customs. The road must be open. The game must be played according to the rules.
There must be no artificial stifling of equality of opportunity, no closed doors to the able,
no stopping the free game before it was played to the end. More than that, there was an unformulated,
perhaps, but very real feeling, that mere success in the game, by which the abler men were
able to achieve preëminence gave to the successful ones no right to look down upon their neighbors,
no vested title to assert superiority as a matter of pride and to the diminution of the equal
right and dignity of the less successful.

If this democracy of Southern pioneers, this Jacksonian democracy, was, as its socialist critics
have called it, in reality a democracy of "expectant capitalists," it was not one which expected
or acknowledged on the part of the successful ones the right to harden their triumphs into
the rule of a privileged class. In short, if it is indeed true that the backwoods democracy
was based upon equality of opportunity, it is also true that it resented the conception that
opportunity under competition should result in the hopeless inequality, or rule of class. Ever
a new clearing must be possible. And because the wilderness seemed so unending, the menace
to the enjoyment of this ideal seemed rather to be feared from government, within or without,
than from the operations of internal evolution.

From the first, it became evident that these men had means of supplementing their individual
activity by informal combinations. One of the things that impressed all early travelers in
the United States was the capacity for extra-legal, voluntary association.[343:1] This was
natural enough; in all America we can study the process by which in a new land social customs
form and crystallize into law. We can even see how the personal leader becomes the governmental
official. This power of the newly arrived pioneers to join together for a common end without
the intervention of governmental institutions was one of their marked characteristics. The
log rolling, the house-raising, the husking bee, the apple paring, and the squatters' associations
whereby they protected themselves against the speculators in securing title to their clearings
on the public domain, the camp meeting, the mining camp, the vigilantes, the cattle-raisers'
associations, the "gentlemen's agreements," are a few of the indications of this attitude.
It is well to emphasize this American trait, because in a modified way it has come to be one
of the most characteristic and important features of the United States of to-day. America does
through informal association and understandings on the part of the people many of the things
which in the Old World are and can be done only by governmental intervention and compulsion.
These associations were in America not due to immemorial custom of tribe or village community.
They were extemporized by voluntary action.

The actions of these associations had an authority akin to that of law. They were usually not
so much evidences of a disrespect for law and order as the only means by which real law and
order were possible in a region where settlement and society had gone in advance of the institutions
and instrumentalities of organized society.

Because of these elements of individualistic competition and the power of spontaneous association,
pioneers were responsive to leadership. The backwoodsmen knew that under the free opportunities
of his life the abler man would reveal himself, and show them the way. By free choice and not
by compulsion, by spontaneous impulse, and not by the domination of a caste, they rallied around
a cause, they supported an issue. They yielded to the principle of government by agreement,
and they hated the doctrine of autocracy even before it gained a name.

They looked forward to the extension of their American principles to the Old World and their
keenest apprehensions came from the possibility of the extension of the Old World's system
of arbitrary rule, its class wars and rivalries and interventions to the destruction of the
free States and democratic institutions which they were building in the forests of America.

If we add to these aspects of early backwoods democracy, its spiritual qualities, we shall
more easily understand them. These men were emotional. As they wrested their clearing from
the woods and from the savages who surrounded them, as they expanded that clearing and saw
the beginnings of commonwealths, where only little communities had been, and as they saw these
commonwealths touch hands with each other along the great course of the Mississippi River,
they became enthusiastically optimistic and confident of the continued expansion of this democracy.
They had faith in themselves and their destiny. And that optimistic faith was responsible both
for their confidence in their own ability to rule and for the passion for expansion. They looked
to the future. "Others appeal to history: an American appeals to prophecy; and with Malthus
in one hand and a map of the back country in the other, he boldly defies us to a comparison
with America as she is to be," said a London periodical in 1821. Just because, perhaps, of
the usual isolation of their lives, when they came together in associations whether of the
camp meeting or of the political gathering, they felt the influence of a common emotion and
enthusiasm. Whether Scotch-Irish Presbyterian, Baptist, or Methodist, these people saturated
their religion and their politics with feeling. Both the stump and the pulpit were centers
of energy, electric cells capable of starting widespreading fires. They felt both their religion
and their democracy, and were ready to fight for it.

This democracy was one that involved a real feeling of social comradeship among its widespread
members. Justice Catron, who came from Arkansas to the Supreme Court in the presidency of Jackson,
said: "The people of New Orleans and St. Louis are next neighbors--if we desire to know a man
in any quarter of the union we inquire of our next neighbor, who but the other day lived by
him." Exaggerated as this is, it nevertheless had a surprising measure of truth for the Middle
West as well. For the Mississippi River was the great highway down which groups of pioneers
like Abraham Lincoln, on their rafts and flat boats, brought the little neighborhood surplus.
After the steamboat came to the western waters the voyages up and down by merchants and by
farmers shifting their homes, brought people into contact with each other over wide areas.

This enlarged neighborhood democracy was determined not by a reluctant admission that under
the law one man is as good as another; it was based upon "good fellowship," sympathy and understanding.
They were of a stock, moreover, which sought new trails and were ready to follow where the
trail led, innovators in society as well as finders of new lands.

By 1830 the Southern inundation ebbed and a different tide flowed in from the northeast by
way of the Erie Canal and steam navigation on the Great Lakes to occupy the zone unreached
by Southern settlement. This new tide spread along the margins of the Great Lakes, found the
oak openings and small prairie islands of Southern Michigan and Wisconsin; followed the fertile
forested ribbons along the river courses far into the prairie lands; and by the end of the
forties began to venture into the margin of the open prairie.

In 1830 the Middle West contained a little over a million and a half people; in 1840, over
three and a third millions; in 1850, nearly five and a half millions. Although in 1830 the
North Atlantic States numbered between three and four times as many people as the Middle West,
yet in those two decades the Middle West made an actual gain of several hundred thousand more
than did the old section. Counties in the newer states rose from a few hundred to ten or fifteen
thousand people in the space of less than five years. Suddenly, with astonishing rapidity and
volume, a new people was forming with varied elements, ideals and institutions drawn from all
over this nation and from Europe. They were confronted with the problem of adjusting different
stocks, varied customs and habits, to their new home.

In comparison with the Ohio Valley, the peculiarity of the occupation of the northern zone
of the Middle West, lay in the fact that the native element was predominantly from the older
settlements of the Middle West itself and from New York and New England. But it was from the
central and western counties of New York and from the western and northern parts of New England,
the rural regions of declining agricultural prosperity, that the bulk of this element came.

Thus the influence of the Middle West stretched into the Northeast, and attracted a farming
population already suffering from western competition. The advantage of abundant, fertile,
and cheap land, the richer agricultural returns, and especially the opportunities for youth
to rise in all the trades and professions, gave strength to this competition. By it New England
was profoundly and permanently modified.

This Yankee stock carried with it a habit of community life, in contrast with the individualistic
democracy of the Southern element. The colonizing land companies, the town, the school, the
church, the feeling of local unity, furnished the evidences of this instinct for communities.
This instinct was accompanied by the creation of cities, the production of a surplus for market,
the reaching out to connections with the trading centers of the East, the evolution of a more
complex and at the same time a more integrated industrial society than that of the Southern
pioneer.

But they did not carry with them the unmodified New England institutions and traits. They came
at a time and from a people less satisfied with the old order than were their neighbors in
the East. They were the young men with initiative, with discontent; the New York element especially
was affected by the radicalism of Locofoco democracy which was in itself a protest against
the established order.

The winds of the prairies swept away almost at once a mass of old habits and prepossessions.
Said one of these pioneers in a letter to friends in the East:

     If you value ease more than money or prosperity, don't
     come. . . . Hands are too few for the work, houses for the
     inhabitants, and days for the day's work to be done. . . .
     Next if you can't stand seeing your old New England ideas,
     ways of doing, and living and in fact, all of the good old
     Yankee fashions knocked out of shape and altered, or thrown by
     as unsuited to the climate, don't be caught out here. But if
     you can bear grief with a smile, can put up with a scale of
     accommodations ranging from the soft side of a plank before
     the fire (and perhaps three in a bed at that) down through the
     middling and inferior grades; if you are never at a loss for
     ways to do the most unpracticable things without tools; if you
     can do all this and some more come on. . . . It is a universal
     rule here to help one another, each one keeping an eye single
     to his own business.

They knew that they were leaving many dear associations of the old home, giving up many of
the comforts of life, sacrificing things which those who remained thought too vital to civilization
to be left. But they were not mere materialists ready to surrender all that life is worth for
immediate gain. They were idealists themselves, sacrificing the ease of the immediate future
for the welfare of their children, and convinced of the possibility of helping to bring about
a better social order and a freer life. They were social idealists. But they based their ideals
on trust in the common man and the readiness to make adjustments, not on the rule of a benevolent
despot or a controlling class.

The attraction of this new home reached also into the Old World and gave a new hope and new
impulses to the people of Germany, of England, of Ireland, and of Scandinavia. Both economic
influences and revolutionary discontent promoted German migration at this time; economic causes
brought the larger volume, but the quest for liberty brought the leaders, many of whom were
German political exiles. While the latter urged, with varying degrees of emphasis, that their
own contribution should be preserved in their new surroundings, and a few visionaries even
talked of a German State in the federal system, what was noteworthy was the adjustment of the
emigrants of the thirties and forties to Middle Western conditions; the response to the opportunity
to create a new type of society in which all gave and all received and no element remained
isolated. Society was plastic. In the midst of more or less antagonism between "bowie knife
Southerners," "cow-milking Yankee Puritans," "beer-drinking Germans," "wild Irishmen," a process
of mutual education, a giving and taking, was at work. In the outcome, in spite of slowness
of assimilation where different groups were compact and isolated from the others, and a certain
persistence of inherited morale, there was the creation of a new type, which was neither the
sum of all its elements, nor a complete fusion in a melting pot. They were American pioneers,
not outlying fragments of New England, of Germany, or of Norway.

The Germans were most strongly represented in the Missouri Valley, in St. Louis, in Illinois
opposite that city, and in the Lake Shore counties of eastern Wisconsin north from Milwaukee.
In Cincinnati and Cleveland there were many Germans, while in nearly half the counties of Ohio,
the German immigrants and the Pennsylvania Germans held nearly or quite the balance of political
power. The Irish came primarily as workers on turnpikes, canals and railroads, and tended to
remain along such lines, or to gather in the growing cities. The Scandinavians, of whom the
largest proportion were Norwegians, founded their colonies in Northern Illinois, and in Southern
Wisconsin about the Fox and the head waters of Rock River, whence in later years they spread
into Iowa, Minnesota and North Dakota.

By 1850 about one-sixth of the people of the Middle West were of North Atlantic birth, about
one-eighth of Southern birth, and a like fraction of foreign birth, of whom the Germans were
twice as numerous as the Irish, and the Scandinavians only slightly more numerous than the
Welsh, and fewer than the Scotch. There were only a dozen Scandinavians in Minnesota. The natives
of the British Islands, together with the natives of British North America in the Middle West,
numbered nearly as many as the natives of German lands. But in 1850 almost three-fifths of
the population were natives of the Middle West itself, and over a third of the population lived
in Ohio. The cities were especially a mixture of peoples. In the five larger cities of the
section natives and foreigners were nearly balanced. In Chicago the Irish, Germans and natives
of the North Atlantic States about equaled each other. But in all the other cities, the Germans
exceeded the Irish in varying proportions. There were nearly three to one in Milwaukee.

It is not merely that the section was growing rapidly and was made up of various stocks with
many different cultures, sectional and European; what is more significant is that these elements
did not remain as separate strata underneath an established ruling order, as was the case particularly
in New England. All were accepted and intermingling components of a forming society, plastic
and absorptive. This characteristic of the section as "a good mixer" became fixed before the
large immigrations of the eighties. The foundations of the section were laid firmly in a period
when the foreign elements were particularly free and eager to contribute to a new society and
to receive an impress from the country which offered them a liberty denied abroad. Significant
as is this fact, and influential in the solution of America's present problems, it is no more
important than the fact that in the decade before the Civil War, the Southern element in the
Middle West had also had nearly two generations of direct association with the Northern, and
had finally been engulfed in a tide of Northeastern and Old World settlers.

In this society of pioneers men learned to drop their old national animosities. One of the
Immigrant Guides of the fifties urged the newcomers to abandon their racial animosities. "The
American laughs at these steerage quarrels," said the author.

Thus the Middle West was teaching the lesson of national cross-fertilization instead of national
enmities, the possibility of a newer and richer civilization, not by preserving unmodified
or isolated the old component elements, but by breaking down the line-fences, by merging the
individual life in the common product--a new product, which held the promise of world brotherhood.
If the pioneers divided their allegiance between various parties, Whig, Democrat, Free Soil
or Republican, it does not follow that the western Whig was like the eastern Whig. There was
an infiltration of a western quality into all of these. The western Whig supported Harrison
more because he was a pioneer than because he was a Whig. It saw in him a legitimate successor
of Andrew Jackson. The campaign of 1840 was a Middle Western camp meeting on a huge scale.
The log cabins, the cider and the coonskins were the symbols of the triumph of Middle Western
ideas, and were carried with misgivings by the merchants, the bankers and the manufacturers
of the East. In like fashion, the Middle Western wing of the Democratic party was as different
from the Southern wing wherein lay its strength, as Douglas was from Calhoun. It had little
in common with the slaveholding classes of the South, even while it felt the kinship of the
pioneer with the people of the Southern upland stock from which so many Westerners were descended.

In the later forties and early fifties most of the Middle Western States made constitutions.
The debates in their conventions and the results embodied in the constitutions themselves tell
the story of their political ideals. Of course, they based the franchise on the principle of
manhood suffrage. But they also provided for an elective judiciary, for restrictions on the
borrowing power of the State, lest it fall under the control of what they feared as the money
power, and several of them either provided for the extinguishment of banks of issue, or rigidly
restrained them. Some of them exempted the homestead from forced sale for debt; married women's
legal rights were prominent topics in the debates of the conventions, and Wisconsin led off
by permitting the alien to vote after a year's residence. It welcomed the newcomer to the freedom
and to the obligations of American citizenship.

Although this pioneer society was preponderantly an agricultural society it was rapidly learning
that agriculture alone was not sufficient for its life. It was developing manufactures, trade,
mining, the professions, and becoming conscious that in a progressive modern state it was possible
to pass from one industry to another and that all were bound by common ties. But it is significant
that in the census of 1850, Ohio, out of a population of two millions, reported only a thousand
servants, Iowa only ten in two hundred thousand and Minnesota fifteen in its six thousand.

In the intellectual life of this new democracy there was already the promise of original contributions
even in the midst of the engrossing toil and hard life of the pioneer.

The country editor was a leader of his people, not a patent-insides recorder of social functions,
but a vigorous and independent thinker and writer. The subscribers to the newspaper published
in the section were higher in proportion to population than in the State of New York and not
greatly inferior to those of New England, although such eastern papers as the New York Tribune
had an extensive circulation throughout the Middle West. The agricultural press presupposed
in its articles and contributions a level of general intelligence and interest above that of
the later farmers of the section, at least before the present day.

Farmer boys walked behind the plow with their book in hand and sometimes forgot to turn at
the end of the furrow; even rare boys, who, like the young Howells, "limped barefoot by his
father's side with his eyes on the cow and his mind on Cervantes and Shakespeare."

Periodicals flourished and faded like the prairie flowers. Some of Emerson's best poems first
appeared in one of these Ohio Valley magazines. But for the most part the literature of the
region and the period was imitative or reflective of the common things in a not uncommon way.
It is to its children that the Middle West had to look for the expression of its life and its
ideals rather than to the busy pioneer who was breaking a prairie farm or building up a new
community. Illiteracy was least among the Yankee pioneers and highest among the Southern element.
When illiteracy is mapped for 1850 by percentages there appears two distinct zones, the one
extending from New England, the other from the South.

The influence of New England men was strong in the Yankee regions of the Middle West. Home
missionaries, and representatives of societies for the promotion of education in the West,
both in the common school and denominational colleges, scattered themselves throughout the
region and left a deep impress in all these States. The conception was firmly fixed in the
thirties and forties that the West was the coming power in the Union, that the fate of civilization
was in its hands, and therefore rival sects and rival sections strove to influence it to their
own types. But the Middle West shaped all these educational contributions according to her
own needs and ideals.

The State Universities were for the most part the result of agitation and proposals of men
of New England origin; but they became characteristic products of Middle Western society, where
the community as a whole, rather than wealthy benefactors, supported these institutions. In
the end the community determined their directions in accord with popular ideals. They reached
down more deeply into the ranks of the common people than did the New England or Middle State
Colleges; they laid more emphasis upon the obviously useful, and became coëducational at an
early date. This dominance of the community ideals had dangers for the Universities, which
were called to raise ideals and to point new ways, rather than to conform.

Challenging the spaces of the West, struck by the rapidity with which a new society was unfolding
under their gaze, it is not strange that the pioneers dealt in the superlative and saw their
destiny with optimistic eyes. The meadow lot of the small intervale had become the prairie,
stretching farther than their gaze could reach.

All was motion and change. A restlessness was universal. Men moved, in their single life, from
Vermont to New York, from New York to Ohio, from Ohio to Wisconsin, from Wisconsin to California,
and longed for the Hawaiian Islands. When the bark started from their fence rails, they felt
the call to change. They were conscious of the mobility of their society and gloried in it.
They broke with the Past and thought to create something finer, more fitting for humanity,
more beneficial for the average man than the world had ever seen.

"With the Past we have literally nothing to do," said B. Gratz Brown in a Missouri Fourth of
July oration in 1850, "save to dream of it. Its lessons are lost and its tongue is silent.
We are ourselves at the head and front of all political experience. Precedents have lost their
virtue and all their authority is gone. . . . Experience can profit us only to guard from antequated
delusions."

"The yoke of opinion," wrote Channing to a Western friend, speaking of New England, "is a heavy
one, often crushing individuality of judgment and action," and he added that the habits, rules,
and criticisms under which he had grown up had not left him the freedom and courage which are
needed in the style of address best suited to the Western people. Channing no doubt unduly
stressed the freedom of the West in this respect. The frontier had its own conventions and
prejudices, and New England was breaking its own cake of custom and proclaiming a new liberty
at the very time he wrote. But there was truth in the Eastern thought of the West, as a land
of intellectual toleration, one which questioned the old order of things and made innovation
its very creed.

The West laid emphasis upon the practical and demanded that ideals should be put to work for
useful ends; ideals were tested by their direct contributions to the betterment of the average
man, rather than by the production of the man of exceptional genius and distinction.

For, in fine this was the goal of the Middle West, the welfare of the average man; not only
the man of the South, or of the East, the Yankee, or the Irishman, or the German, but all men
in one common fellowship. This was the hope of their youth, of that youth when Abraham Lincoln
rose from rail-splitter to country lawyer, from Illinois legislator to congressman and from
congressman to President.

It is not strange that in all this flux and freedom and novelty and vast spaces, the pioneer
did not sufficiently consider the need of disciplined devotion to the government which he himself
created and operated. But the name of Lincoln and the response of the pioneer to the duties
of the Civil War,--to the sacrifices and the restraints on freedom which it entailed under
his presidency, reminds us that they knew how to take part in a common cause, even while they
knew that war's conditions were destructive of many of the things for which they worked.

There are two kinds of governmental discipline: that which proceeds from free choice, in the
conviction that restraint of individual or class interests is necessary for the common good;
and that which is imposed by a dominant class, upon a subjected and helpless people. The latter
is Prussian discipline, the discipline of a harsh machine-like, logical organization, based
on the rule of a military autocracy. It assumes that if you do not crush your opponent first,
he will crush you. It is the discipline of a nation ruled by its General Staff, assuming war
as the normal condition of peoples, and attempting with remorseless logic to extend its operations
to the destruction of freedom everywhere. It can only be met by the discipline of a people
who use their own government for worthy ends, who preserve individuality and mobility in society
and respect the rights of others, who follow the dictates of humanity and fair play, the principles
of give and take. The Prussian discipline is the discipline of Thor, the War God, against the
discipline of the White Christ.

Pioneer democracy has had to learn lessons by experience: the lesson that government on principles
of free democracy can accomplish many things which the men of the middle of the nineteenth
century did not realize were even possible. They have had to sacrifice something of their passion
for individual unrestraint; they have had to learn that the specially trained man, the man
fitted for his calling by education and experience, whether in the field of science or of industry,
has a place in government; that the rule of the people is effective and enduring only as it
incorporates the trained specialist into the organization of that government, whether as umpire
between contending interests or as the efficient instrument in the hands of democracy.

Organized democracy after the era of free land has learned that popular government to be successful
must not only be legitimately the choice of the whole people; that the offices of that government
must not only be open to all, but that in the fierce struggle of nations in the field of economic
competition and in the field of war, the salvation and perpetuity of the republic depend upon
recognition of the fact that specialization of the organs of the government, the choice of
the fit and the capable for office, is quite as important as the extension of popular control.
When we lost our free lands and our isolation from the Old World, we lost our immunity from
the results of mistakes, of waste, of inefficiency, and of inexperience in our government.

But in the present day we are also learning another lesson which was better known to the pioneers
than to their immediate successors. We are learning that the distinction arising from devotion
to the interests of the commonwealth is a higher distinction than mere success in economic
competition. America is now awarding laurels to the men who sacrifice their triumphs in the
rivalry of business in order to give their service to the cause of a liberty-loving nation,
their wealth and their genius to the success of her ideals. That craving for distinction which
once drew men to pile up wealth and exhibit power over the industrial processes of the nation,
is now finding a new outlet in the craving for distinction that comes from service to the Union,
in satisfaction in the use of great talent for the good of the republic.

And all over the nation, in voluntary organizations for aid to the government, is being shown
the pioneer principle of association that was expressed in the "house raising." It is shown
in the Red Cross, the Y. M. C. A., the Knights of Columbus, the councils and boards of science,
commerce, labor, agriculture; and in all the countless other types, from the association of
women in their kitchen who carry out the recommendations of the Food Director and revive the
plain living of the pioneer, to the Boy Scouts who are laying the foundations for a self-disciplined
and virile generation worthy to follow the trail of the backwoodsmen. It is an inspiring prophecy
of the revival of the old pioneer conception of the obligations and opportunities of neighborliness,
broadening to a national and even to an international scope. The promise of what that wise
and lamented philosopher, Josiah Royce called, "the beloved community." In the spirit of the
pioneer's "house raising" lies the salvation of the Republic.

This then is the heritage of pioneer experience,--a passionate belief that a democracy was
possible which should leave the individual a part to play in free society and not make him
a cog in a machine operated from above; which trusted in the common man, in his tolerance,
his ability to adjust differences with good humor, and to work out an American type from the
contributions of all nations--a type for which he would fight against those who challenged
it in arms, and for which in time of war he would make sacrifices, even the temporary sacrifice
of individual freedom and his life, lest that freedom be lost forever.

FOOTNOTES:

[335:1] An address delivered at the dedication of the building of the State Historical Society
of Minnesota, May 11, 1918. Printed by permission of the Society.

[343:1] See De Tocqueville's interesting appreciation of this American phenomenon.

INDEX

Absentee proprietors, 55, 297

Achievement, 309

Adams, Henry, 213

Adams, J. Q., 26, 192, 230

Agriculture, 314, 329;
  Middle West, 149, 150

Agriculture, Department of, 320

Alamance, 119, 120

Alaska, 296

Albany, 43, 52

Albany congress of 1754, 15

Algonquin Indians, 130

Aliens, land tenure by, 110

Alleghany Mountains, 9, 18, 67;
  as barrier to be overcome, 195

Allen, Ethan, 54

Allen, W. V., 220

American Historical Assoc., 159

American history, social forces, 311;
  survey of recent, 311

American life, distinguishing feature, 2

American people, 339

American spirit, 306, 336, 337

"American System," 171, 172

Americanization, effective, 4

Arid lands, 9, 147, 219, 239, 245, 278

Aristocracy, 250, 254, 257, 275

Army posts, frontier, 16;
  prototypes, 47

Asia, 296

Association, voluntary, 343, 344, 358

Astor's American Fur Co., 6, 143

Atlantic coast, as early frontier, 4;
  Mississippi Valley and, 190, 191;
  Northern, History, 295

Atlantic frontier, composition, 12

Atlantic states, 207, 208

Augusta, Ga., 98

Autocracy, 344

Back country, 68, 70;
  democracy of, 248;
  New England, 75

Backwoods society, 212

Backwoodsmen, 163, 164

Bacon, Francis, 286

Bacon's Rebellion, 84, 247, 251, 301

Baltimore, trade, 108

Bancroft, George, 168

Bank, 171, 254, 325

Bedford, Pa., 5

Beecher, Lyman, 35

Bell, John, 192

Benton, T. H., 26, 35, 192, 325, 328

Berkshires, 60, 71, 77

Beverley, Robert, 85, 91;
  manor, 92

"Birch seal," 78

Black Hills, 145

Blackmar, F. W., 238

Blank patents, 95

Blood-feud, 253

Blount, William, 187

Blue Ridge, 90, 99

Boone, A. J., 19

Boone, Daniel, 18, 105, 124, 165, 206

Boston, trade, 108

Boutmy, E. G., 211

Braddock, Edward, 181, 324

Brattle, Thomas, 56

British and Middle West, 350

Brown, B. Gratz, 355

Brunswick County, Va., 91

Bryan, W. J., 204, 236, 237, 246, 281, 327, 329

Bryce, James, 165, 206, 211, 284

Buffalo, N. Y., 136, 150, 151

Buffalo herds, 144

Buffer state, 131, 134

Burke, Edmund, 33;
  on the Germans, 109

Byrd, Col. William, 84, 87, 98

Calhoun, J. C., 2, 105, 141, 174, 206, 241;
  on representation, 117;
  policy of obtaining western trade for the South, 196

California, 8;
  gold, 144

Canada, 53, 226;
  barrier between, and the United States, 131;
  border warfare, 44;
  homesteads, 296;
  Middle West and, 128;
  wheat fields, 278

Canadians, 227

Canals, deep water, 150

Capital, 276, 305, 325;
  concentration and combinations, 245, 261, 266, 280, 305-306

"Capitalistic classes," 285

Capitalists, 20;
  "expectant," 343

Capitals, state, transfers, 121

Captains of industry, 258, 259, 260

Carnegie, Andrew, 260, 265

Caroline cow-pens, 16

Catron, John, 345

Cattle raising in Virginia, 88, 89, 92

Census, first, frontier at, 5

Census of 1820, frontier, 6

Census of 1890, extinction of frontier, 1, 9, 38, 39, 297

Center of nation, 222

Channing, W. E., 355

Charleston, S. C., 88, 108, 196

Chase, S. P., 104, 142

Cherry Valley, 104

Chicago, 137, 150, 151, 180, 350;
  character, 232

Chillicothe, 133, 223

Cincinnati, 133, 151, 162, 223, 231, 232

Cincinnati and Charleston R. R., 174

Cities, 297, 316-317;
  northeastern, 294-295;
  seaboard, 194, 195, 196;
  three periods of development, 195

Civil War, 356;
  Middle West and, 142;
  Mississippi Valley and, 201;
  Northwest and, 217

Clark, G. R., 131, 167, 186

Clark, J. B., 332

Class distinctions, 280, 285

Clay, Henry, 26, 168, 171, 172, 173, 174, 192, 197, 206, 213, 216, 226,
    241, 304, 325

Cleaveland, Gen. Moses, 133, 222, 257

Cleveland, 133, 150, 223, 231, 232

Clinton, De Witt, 195, 196

Coal supply, 313

Coast, Atlantic, 206;
  destiny, 295;
  interior and, antagonisms, 110

Coeducation, 353

Colden, Cadwallader, 80

Colonial life, 11

Colonial system, 127

Colonization, 312;
  English and French contrasted, 13-14;
  peaceful, 169

Colony of free humanity, 337-338

Columbus, Ohio, 162, 229

Combinations of capital and of labor, 245

Commencement seasons, 290

Commons, J. R., 327

Community, "beloved community," 358;
  life, 347;
  type of settlement, 73, 74, 125

Competition, 154, 203, 277, 308, 312

Compromise, 174, 198, 230, 236;
  slavery, 140, 142

Concentration of power and wealth, 245, 261, 266, 280

Concord, Mass., 39

Concurrent majority, 118

Congregational church, 74, 112

Congress and frontiersmen, 252-253

Connecticut, frontier towns, 42, 45, 53;
  land policy, 76

Connecticut River, 52, 53, 72

Connecticut Valley, 63, 73

Conquest, 269

Conscience, American, 328

Constitution, U. S., 209, 244

Constitutional convention of 1787, 249

Constitutions, state, 121, 252, 352;
  reconstruction, 192

Coöperation, voluntary, 165, 257, 258

Corn, areas, 149;
  belt, 151

Corporations, 265, 328

Cotton culture, 28, 139, 255;
  early extension, 7;
  transfer from the East to Mississippi Valley, 194

"Cotton Kingdom," 174, 189, 194, 198

Coureurs de bois, 182

Cow pens, 16, 88

Crockett, Davy, 105

Crops, migration, 149

Currency, 148;
  evil, 32;
  expansion, 210

Cutler, Manasseh, 141

Dairy interests in Wisconsin, 234, 236

Dakotas, settlement, 145, 146

Darien, Ga., 98

Davis, Jefferson, 105, 139, 174

De Bow, J. D. B., 197

De Bow's Review, 217

Debs, E. V., 281

Dedham, 40, 58

Deerfield, 48, 52, 58, 70

Democracy, 32, 54, 306;
  doubts of, 280;
  established in Old West, 107;
  free land and, 274;
  frontier, early, 106;
  frontier and, 30, 31, 247, 249;
  Godkin on, 307;
  in early 18th century, 98;
  Jacksonian, 192, 302, 342-343;
  Jeffersonian, 250, 251;
  magnitude of achievement in the West, 258;
  Middle West, 154;
  Mississippi Valley, 183;
  neighborhood, 346;
  new type in West, 210, 216;
  Ohio Valley, influence, 172;
  Ohio Valley and, 175;
  organized, 357;
  origin, 293;
  outcome of American experiences, 266;
  pressure on the universities, 283;
  significance of Mississippi Valley in promoting, 190;
  Upland South, 165;
  Western contributions, 243;
  Western ideals, 261;
  see also Pioneer democracy

Democratic party, 327, 330;
  basis, 248;
  Middle Western wing, 352

Democratic-Republican party, 250

Denver, Colo., 19

De Tocqueville. See Tocqueville

Detroit, 135, 150

Development, American, 205, 221;
  four changes, 244;
  personal, 271;
  significant decade, 246-247;
  study of, 10;
  true point of view, 3;
  Western, 218

D'Iberville. See Iberville

Discovery, 271, 293, 301, 306

Doddridge, Joseph, 115

Dogs for hunting Indians, 45

Douglas, S. A., 140;
  Lincoln debates, 230

Douglas, William, 109

Down east, 79

Dracut, 111

Dreams, 301, 339

Duel, 253

Duluth, 150, 151, 234

Dunkards, 263

Dunstable, 48, 56

Duquesne, Abraham, 14

Dwight, Timothy (1752-1817), 63;
  fears of pioneer class, 251

East, efforts to restrict advance of frontier, 33, 34;
  fears of the West, 208;
  out of touch with West, 18

Economic forces and political institutions, 243

Economic historian, 332

Economic legislation and Ohio Valley, 170

Education, 282;
  Middle West, 156

Edwards, Jonathan, 63

Egleston, Melville, 55

Eliot, C. W., on corporation, 265;
  on democracy and slavery, 256

Emerson, R. W., 353;
  on Lincoln, 256

England, decrease of dependence on, 23;
  Mississippi Valley and, 180, 186;
  Old Northwest and, 131, 134

English pioneers, 270

English settlers in Michigan and Wisconsin, 226

English stock and English speech, 23

Equality, 274;
  New England, 61, 62, 63;
  Western settlers, 212

Erie Canal, 7, 136, 195, 197

Europe, American democracy and, 282;
  how America reacted on, 3;
  Southeastern, 294, 295, 316

Europeans, 267

Evolution, American, as key to history, 11

Expansion, 206, 219, 304, 345;
  Ohio Valley and, 166;
  world politics, 246

Experts, 284, 285, 286

"Fall line," 4, 9, 68;
  efforts to establish military frontier on, 84

Fairfax, Lord, 92, 123

Far East, 315

Far West, 315, 341

Farm lands, 297

Farm machinery, 276

Farmers, 238, 239

Farmer's frontier, 12, 16, 18

Federal colonial system, 168, 169

Federal Reserve districts, 322

Fertility, 129

Field, Marshall, 265

Finance, 318, 325;
  pioneer ideas, 148

Fire-arms and Indians, 13

Firmin, Giles, 56

Food supply, 279, 294, 314

Foreign parentage, Indiana and Illinois, 232;
  Michigan, 233;
  Western States, 237;
  Wisconsin, 233-234

Foreign policy, 168, 219

Forest Service, 320

Forest philosophy, 207

"Foresters," 63

Forests, 270, 293;
  Middle West, 130

Fortified houses, 71

Fourierists, 263

France, efforts to revive empire in America, 167;
  Middle West and, 131;
  Mississippi Valley and, 180, 186;
  western exploration, 163;

Franchise, 249-250, 252

Franklin, Benjamin, Mississippi Valley and, 182;
  on the Germans, 109

Free Soil party, 141, 173, 217

French explorers, 163

French frontier, 125

French settlers in Michigan and Wisconsin, 226

Frontier, conservative attitude toward advance, 63;
  definition, 3, 41;
  demand for independent statehood, 248;
  efforts to check and restrict it, 33;
  evil effects, 32;
  extinction, 1, 9, 38, 39, 321;
  farmers, 239, 240;
  first official, 39, 54;
  French, 125;
  importance as a military training school, 15;
  influence toward democracy, 247, 249;
  kinds and modes of advance, 12;
  Massachusetts, 65;
  military, of Old West, 106-107;
  religious aspects, 36;
  Spanish, 125;
  towns in Massachusetts, 42, 45, 53, 70;
  various comparisons, 10

Frontiersmen, 206, 209, 212;
  in Congress, 252-253;
  Mississippi Valley, 182;
  Virginia idea, 86

Fulton, Robert, 171

Fur trade, 13;
  England after Revolution, 131;
  Hudson River, 80;
  Southern, Old West, 87

Gallatin, Albert, 191, 252, 317

Galveston, 202

Garfield, J. A., 241

Geographic factors, 329

Geographic provinces, 158

Georgia, 174, 196;
  restriction of land tenure, 97;
  settlement, 97

Germanic germs, 3, 4

Germans, 263;
  in New York in early times, 5;
  Middle West and, 137-138, 146;
  Palatine, 5, 82, 100, 109, 124;
  political exiles, 349;
  sectaries, 164;
  Wisconsin, 23, 227, 236;
  zone of settlement in Great Valley, 102

Glarus, 236

Glenn, James, 23, 108

Godkin, E. L., 307

Goochland County, Va., 93

Government, 321;
  paternal, 328;
  popular, 357

Government discipline, 356

Government expeditions, 17

Government intervention, 344

Government ownership, 148

Government powers, 307

Government regulation, 281

Granger movement, 148, 203, 218, 276, 281

Grant, U. S., 142

Granville, Lord, 95, 123

Great Lakes, 128, 149, 150, 173, 297

Great Plains, 8, 128, 147;
  Indian trade and war, 144

Great Valley, 100;
  colonization, 100-101

Greater South, 174

Greeley, Horace, 104

Green Mountain Boys, 78

Greenback movement, 148, 203, 218, 276

Greenway manor, 92

Groseilliers, 180

Groton, 48, 57

Grund, F. J., 7

Grundy, Felix, 192

Gulf coast, 295

Gulf States, 141;
  occupation, 139

Hammond, J. H., on slavery problem in the Mississippi Valley, 198

Hanna, Marcus, 265

Harriman, E. H., 280, 318

Harrison, W. H., 168, 173, 189, 192, 213, 255

Hart, A. B., 177

Hartford, 76

Haverhill, 51, 62

Hayes, R. B., 241

Henry, Patrick, 94

Heroes, 254, 256;
  Western, 213

High thinking, 287

Higher law, 239

Hill, J. J., 260

Historian, 333

Historic ideals, 306, 335

Historical societies, 159-160, 339

History, character, 331-332;
  new viewpoints, 330

Holland, J. G., 73

Holst, H. E. von, 24

Home markets, 108, 216

Home missions, 36, 354

Homestead law of 1862, 145, 276

Hoosier State, 224

Housatonic River, 71

Housatonic Valley, 72

Houston, Sam, 105

Howells, W. D., 353

Hudson River, 53, 79;
  frontier, 43;
  fur trade, 80

Humanitarian movement, 327

Huxley, T. H., on modern civilization, 300

Iberville, P. le M. d', 180

Icarians, 263

Idealists, America the goal, 261;
  social, 349

Ideals, 239;
  American, and the West, 290;
  American, loyalty to, 307;
  American historic, 306, 335;
  immigrants, 264;
  Middle West, 153;
  Mississippi Valley, 203;
  pioneer, and the State university, 269;
  readjustment, 321, 328;
  Western, 209, 214, 267;
  Western democracy and, 261

Illinois, composite nationality, 232;
  elements of settlement, 225;
  settlement, 135

Illiteracy in Middle West, 353

Immigrants, 277;
  idealism, 264

Immigration, 146, 215, 316

Indian guides, 17

Indian policy, 10

Indian question, early, 9

Indian reservations, 278

Indian trade, 6, 13, 14;
  Middle West, 143, 144

Indian wars, 9;
  New England and, 69;
  Ohio Valley and, 167

Indiana, character, 232;
  constitution, 282;
  elements in settlement, 223-224;
  settlement, 134

Indianapolis, 162, 229

Indians, buffer state for England, 131, 134;
  congresses to treat with, 15;
  effects of trades on, 13;
  hunting Indians with dogs, 45;
  influence on Puritans and New England, 44;
  Middle West and, 133, 134;
  society, 13

Individualism, 30, 32, 37, 78, 125, 140, 203, 254, 259, 271, 273, 302,
    306;
  in the Old West, 107;
  reaction against, 307;
  Upland South, 165

Industrial conditions, 280, 281, 285;
  Middle West, 149, 154;
  Mississippi Valley, 194, 201;
  Ohio Valley and, 175

Industry, captains of, and large undertakings, 258, 259, 260;
  control, 318

Inland waterways, 202

Insurgent movement, 327

Intellectual life and the frontier, 37

Intercolonial congresses, 15

Interior and coast, antagonisms, 110

Internal commerce, 171, 188

Internal improvements, 27, 28, 29, 111, 170, 172, 216, 257;
  after 1812 to break down barrier to West, 195;
  Old West, 109

Internal trade, Old West, 108, 109

Iowa, 141, 143;
  elements and growth, 229;
  settlement, 137

Ipswich, 56

Irish, 350

Iron mines in Middle West, 152

Iron ore, 313

Iroquois Indians, 13, 80

Irrigation, 258, 279

Isms, 239

Izard, Ralph, 274

Jackson, Andrew, 105, 168, 173, 189, 206, 213, 216, 241, 252, 253, 268,
    326;
  personification of frontier traits, 252, 254

Jackson, Stonewall, 105

Jacksonian democracy, 192, 302, 342-343

James River, 84, 90;
  settlement, 93

Jefferson, Thomas, 93, 105, 114, 268;
  conception of democracy, 250, 251;
  on England and the Mississippi, 186;
  on the pioneer in Congress, 253;
  on the importance of the Mississippi Valley, 188

"Jim River" Valley, 145

Johnson, R. M., 192

Johnson, Sir William, 81, 104

Justice, direct forms in the West, 212

Kansas, 142, 144, 146, 151;
  Populists, 238;
  settlers, 237

Kansas City, 151

Kentucky, 19, 122, 162, 167, 168, 169, 192, 225, 253;
  slavery, 174

King Philip's War 40, 46, 69

Kipling, Rudyard, "Foreloper," 270;
  "Son of the English," 262

Labor, combinations, 245;
  composition of laboring class, 316

Labor theorists, 303, 326

Lamar, L. Q. C. (1825-1893), 25

Lancaster, Mass., 48, 57, 61

Land, 328-329;
  abundance, 274;
  abundance, as basis of democracy, 191, 192;
  alien tenure, 110;
  free, exhausted, 244-245;
  free Western, 211, 259;
  fundamental fact in Western society, 211;
  "mongering," 61;
  see also Public lands

Land companies, 123, 347

Land grants, 9;
  for schools and colleges, 74;
  to railroads, 276

Land Ordinance of 1785, 132

Land policies, 10

Land system, "equality" principle in New England, 61, 62, 63;
  Georgia, 97;
  later federal, 123;
  New England, 54;
  New England conflicts, 75;
  New York State, 80;
  North Carolina, 95;
  Old West, 122;
  Pennsylvania, 101;
  Virginia, 91;
  Virginia grants to societies, 85

La Salle, 180

Laurentide glacier, 129

Law and order, 298, 344

Leadership, 213, 291, 292, 307;
  educated, 286

Lease, Mary Ellen, 240

Legislation, 277, 307;
  frontier and, 24;

Leicester, 59

Leigh, B. W., 115

Lewis and Clark, 13, 17

Liberty, Bacon on, 286;
  for universities, 287;
  individual, 213;
  Western, 212

Life as a whole, 287

Lincoln, Abraham, 105, 135, 142, 174, 206, 213, 217, 225, 241, 268, 304,
    356;
  Douglas debates, 230;
  embodiment of pioneer period, 255-256;
  Ohio Valley, influence of, 175

Lincoln, C. H., 113

Litchfield, 71, 76, 124

Livingston manor, 81, 82

Locofocos, 303, 326, 348

Log cabin, 338

"Log cabin campaign," 173

London Company, 301

Loria, Achille, 11

Louisiana, 180, 208

Louisiana Purchase, 25, 34, 140, 167, 213, 251;
  effect on Mississippi Valley, 189-190

Louisville, 162

Lowell, J. R., on Lincoln, 255

Loyal Land Co., 123, 182

