May 23. Two miles from our camp of last night, we reached a river emptying itself on the north
side, called Osage Woman river. It is about thirty yards wide, and has now a settlement of
thirty or forty families from the United States. About a mile and a half beyond this is a large
cave, on the south side at the foot of cliffs nearby three hundred feet high, overhanging the
water, which becomes very swift at this place. The cave is one hundred and twenty feet wide,
forty feet deep, and twenty high, it is known by the name of the Tavern, among the traders
who have written their names on the rock, and painted some images which command the homage
of the Indians and French. About a little further we passed a small creek called Tavern creek,
and encamped on the south side of the river, having gone nine miles.

Early the next morning we ascended a very difficult rapid, called the Devil's Race Ground,
where the current sets for half a mile against some projecting rocks on the south side. We
were less fortunate in attempting a second place of equal difficulty. Passing near the southern
shore, the bank fell in so fast as to oblige us to cross the river instantly, between the northern
side and a sandbar which is constantly moving and banking with the violence of the current.
The boat struck on it, and would have upset immediately, if the men had not jumped into the
water and held her, till the sand washed from under her. It rained last night, yet we found
this morning that the river had fallen several inches.

May 26. The wind being favourable we made eighteen miles to-day. We passed in the morning several
islands, the largest of which is Buffaloe island, separated from the southern side by a small
channel which receives the waters of Buffaloe creek. On the same side is Shepherd's creek,
a little beyond which we encamped on the northern side. The next day we sailed along a large
island called Otter island, on the northern side, extending nearly ten miles in length, narrow
but high in its situation, and one of the most fertile in the whole river. Between it and the
northern shore, three small creeks, one of which has the same name with the island, empty themselves.
On the southern shore is a creek twenty yards wide, called Ash creek. In the course of the
day we met two canoes loaded with furs, which had been two months on their route, from the
Mahar nation, residing more than seven hundred miles up the river--one large raft from the
Pawnees on the river Platte, and three others from the Grand Osage river. At the distance of
fifteen miles we encamped on a willow island, at the entrance of the river Gasconade. This
river falls into the Missouri from the south, one hundred miles from the Mississippi. Its length
is about one hundred and fifty miles in a course generally northeast through a hilly country.
On its banks are a number of saltpetre caves, and it is believed some mines of lead in the
vicinity. Its width at the mouth is one hundred and fifty-seven yards, and its depth nineteen feet.

Here we halted for the purpose of hunting and drying our provisions, and making the necessary
celestial observations. This being completed, we set sail on the 29th at four o'clock, and
at four miles distance encamped on the south-side, above a small creek, called Deer creek.
The next day, 30th, we set out early, and at two miles distant reached a large cave, on the
north, called Montbrun's tavern, after a French trader of that name, just above a creek called
after the same person. Beyond this is a large island, and at the distance of four miles, Rush
creek coming in from the south, at eleven, Big-muddy river on the north, about fifty yards
wide; three miles further, is Little-muddy river on the same side, opposite to which we encamped
at the mouth of Grindstone creek. The rain which began last night continued through the day,
accompanied with high wind and some hail. The river has been rising fast for two days, and
the country around appears full of water. Along the sides of the river to day we observe much
timber, the cotton wood, the sycamore, hickory, white walnut, some grapevines, and rushes--the
high west wind and rain compelled us to remain all the next day, May 31. In the afternoon a
boat came down from the Grand Osage river, bringing a letter from a person sent to the Osage
nation on the Arkansaw river, which mentioned that the letter announcing the cession of Louisiana
was committed to the flames--that the Indians would not believe that the Americans were owners
of that country, and disregarded St. Louis and its supplies. The party was occupied in hunting,
in the course of which, they caught in the woods several very large rats. We set sail early
the next morning, June 1st, and at six miles distant passed Bear creek, a stream of about twenty-five
yards width; but the wind being ahead and the current rapid, we were unable to make more than
thirteen miles to the mouth of the Osage river; where we encamped and remained the following
day, for the purpose of making celestial observations. The Osage river empties itself into
the Missouri, at one hundred and thirty-three miles distance from the mouth of the latter river.
Its general course is west and west southwest through a rich and level country. At the junction
the Missouri is about eight hundred and seventy-five yards wide, and the Osage three hundred
and ninety-seven. The low point of junction is in latitude 38° 31' 16", and at a short distance
from it is a high commanding position, whence we enjoyed a delightful prospect of the country.

The Osage river gives or owes its name to a nation inhabiting its banks at a considerable distance
from this place. Their present name however, seems to have originated from the French traders,
for both among themselves and their neighbours they are called the Wasbashas. They number between
twelve and thirteen hundred warriors, and consist of three tribes: the Great Osages of about
five hundred warriors, living in a village on the south bank of the river--the Little Osages,
of nearly half that number, residing at the distance of six miles from them--and the Arkansaw
band, a colony of Osages, of six hundred warriors, who left them some years ago, under the
command of a chief called the Bigfoot, and settled on the Vermillion river, a branch of the
Arkansaw. In person the Osages are among the largest and best formed Indians, and are said
to possess fine military capacities; but residing as they do in villages, and having made considerable
advance in agriculture, they seem less addicted to war, than their northern neighbours, to
whom the use of rifles gives a great superiority. Among the peculiarities of this people, there
is nothing more remarkable than the tradition relative to their origin.

On the afternoon of June 3, we proceeded, and at three miles distant, reached a creek called
Cupboard creek, from a rock of that appearance near its entrance. Two miles further we encamped
at Moreau creek, a stream of twenty yards width, on the southern side. The next morning, we
passed at an early hour, Cedar island on the north, so called from the abundance of the tree
of that name; near which is a small creek, named Nightingale creek, from a bird of that species,
who sang for us during the night. Beyond Cedar island, are some others of a smaller extent,
and at seven miles distance a creek fifteen or twenty yards wide, entering from the north,
and known by the name of Cedar creek. At seven and a half miles further, we passed on the south
side another creek, which we called Mast creek, from the circumstance of our mast being broken
by running under a concealed tree; a little above is another creek on the left, one mile beyond
which we encamped on the southern shore under high projecting cliffs. The French had reported
that lead ore was to be found in this place, but on examining the hills, we could discern no
appearance of that mineral. Along the river on the south, is a low land covered with rushes,
and high nettles, and near the mouths of the creeks, supplied with oak, ash, and walnut timber.
On the north the land is rich and well situated. We made seventeen and a half miles this day.
The river is falling slowly. We continued our route the next morning early: a small creek called
Lead creek, on the south; another on the north, known to the French by the name of Little Good
Woman's creek, and again Big Rock creek on the south were the only streams we passed this morning.
At eleven o'clock we met a raft made of two canoes joined together, in which two French traders
were descending, from eighty leagues up the river Kanzas, where they had wintered, and caught
great quantities of beaver, but had lost much of their game by fires from the prairies. They
told us that the Kanzas nation is now hunting buffaloe in the plains, having passed the last
winter in this river. Two miles further, we reached on the south Little Manitou creek, which
takes its name from a strange figure resembling the bust of a man, with the horns of a stag,
painted on a projecting rock, which may represent some spirit or deity. Near this is a sandbar
extending several miles, which renders the navigation difficult, and a small creek called Sand
creek on the south, where we stopped for dinner, and gathered wild cresses and tongue grass
from the sandbar. The rapidity of the currents added to our having broken our mast, prevented
our going more than twelve and a half miles. The scouts and hunters whom we always kept out,
report that they have seen fresh tracks of Indians. The next morning we left our camp, which
was on the south side, opposite to a large island in the middle of the river, and at five miles
reached a creek on the north side, of about twenty yards wide, called Split Rock creek, from
a fissure in the point of a neighbouring rock. Three miles beyond this, on the south is Saline
river, it is about thirty yards wide, and has its name from the number of salt licks, and springs,
which render its water brackish; the river is very rapid and the banks falling in. After leaving
Saline creek, we passed one large island and several smaller ones, having made fourteen miles.
The water rose a foot during the last night.

The next day, June 7, we passed at four and a half miles Big Manitou creek, near which is a
limestone rock inlaid with flint of various colours, and embellished, or at least covered with
uncouth paintings of animals and inscriptions. We landed to examine it, but found the place
occupied by a nest of rattlesnakes, of which we killed three. We also examined some licks and
springs of salt water, two or three miles up this creek. We then proceeded by some small willow
islands, and encamped at the mouth of Good Woman river on the north. It is about thirty-five
yards wide, and said to be navigable for boats several leagues. The hunters, who had hitherto
given us only deer, brought in this evening three bears, and had seen some indication of buffaloe.
We had come fourteen miles.

June 8, we saw several small willow islands, and a creek on the south, near which are a number
of deerlicks; at nine miles distance we came to Mine river. This river, which falls into the
Missouri from the south, is said to be navigable for boats eighty or ninety miles, and is about
seventy yards wide at its mouth. It forks about five or six leagues from the Missouri, and
at the point of junction are some very rich salt springs; the west branch in particular, is
so much impregnated, that, for twenty miles, the water is not palatable: several branches of
the Manitou and Good Woman are equally tinctured. The French report also, that lead ore has
been found on different parts of the river. We made several excursions near the river through
the low rich country on its banks, and after dinner went on to the island of Mills, where we
encamped. We met with a party of three hunters from the Sioux river; they had been out for
twelve months, and collected about nine hundred dollars worth of peltries and furs. We ascended
this river twelve miles.

On the 9th, we set out early, and reached a cliff of rocks, called the Arrow Rock, near to
which is a prairie called the Prairies of Arrows, and Arrow creek, a small stream about eight
yards wide, whose source is in the adjoining prairies on the south. At this cliff the Missouri
is confined within a bed of two hundred yards; and about four miles to the south east is a
large lick and salt spring of great strength. About three miles further is Blackbird creek
on the north side, opposite to which, is an island and a prairie inclosing a small lake. Five
miles beyond this we encamped on the south side, after making, in the course of the day, thirteen
miles. The land on the north is a high rich plain. On the south it is also even, of a good
quality, and rising from fifty to one hundred feet.

The next morning, 10th, we passed Deer creek, and at the distance of five miles, the two rivers
called by the French the two Charatons, a corruption of Thieraton, the first of which is thirty,
the second seventy yards wide, and enter the Missouri together. They are both navigable for
boats: the country through which they pass is broken, rich, and thickly covered with timber.
The Ayauway nation, consisting of three hundred men, have a village near its head-waters on
the river De Moines. Farther on we passed a large island called Chicot or Stump Island, and
encamped on the south, after making ten miles. A head wind forced us to remain there all the
next day, during which we dried the meat we had killed, and examined the surrounding country,
which consists of good land, well watered, and supplied with timber: the prairies also differ
from those eastward of the Mississippi, inasmuch as the latter are generally without any covering
except grass, whilst the former abound with hazel, grapes and other fruits, among which is
the Osage plum of a superior size and quality. On the morning of the 12th, we passed through
difficult places in the river, and reached Plum creek on the south side. At one o'clock, we
met two rafts loaded, the one with furs, the other with the tallow of buffaloe; they were from
the Sioux nation, and on their way to St. Louis; but we were fortunate enough to engage one
of them, a Mr. Durion, who had lived with that nation more than twenty years, and was high
in their confidence, to accompany us thither. We made nine miles. On the 13th, we passed at
between four and five miles, a bend of the river, and two creeks on the north, called the Round
Bend creeks. Between these two creeks is the prairie, in which once stood the ancient village
of the Missouris. Of this village there remains no vestige, nor is there any thing to recall
this great and numerous nation, except a feeble remnant of about thirty families. They were
driven from their original seats by the invasions of the Sauks and other Indians from the Mississippi,
who destroyed at this village two hundred of them in one contest, and sought refuge near the
Little Osage, on the other side of the river. The encroachment of the same enemies forced,
about thirty years since, both these nations from the banks of the Missouri. A few retired
with the Osage, and the remainder found an asylum on the river Platte, among the Ottoes, who
are themselves declining. Opposite the plain there was an island and a French fort, but there
is now no appearance of either, the successive inundations having probably washed them away,
as the willow island which is in the situation described by Du Pratz, is small and of recent
formation. Five miles from this place is the mouth of Grand River, where we encamped. This
river follows a course nearly south, or south east, and is between eighty and a hundred yards
wide where it enters the Missouri, near a delightful and rich plain. A racoon, a bear, and
some deer were obtained to day. We proceeded at six o'clock the next morning. The current was
so rapid and the banks on the north falling in so constantly, that we were obliged to approach
the sandbars on the south. These were moving continually, and formed the worst passage we had
seen, and which we surmounted with much difficulty. We met a trading raft from the Pawnee nation
on the river Platte, and attempted unsuccessfully to engage one of their party to return with
us. At the distance of eight miles, we came to some high cliffs, called the Snake bluffs, from
the number of that animal in the neighbourhood, and immediately above these bluffs, Snake creek,
about eighteen yards wide, on which we encamped. One of our hunters, a half Indian, brought
us an account of his having to day passed a small lake, near which a number of deer were feeding,
and in the pond he heard a snake making a guttural noise like a turkey. He fired his gun, but
the noise became louder. He adds, that he has heard the Indians mention this species of snake,
and this story is confirmed by a Frenchman of our party. All the next day, the river being
very high, the sandbars were so rolling and numerous, and the current so strong, that we were
unable to stem it even with oars added to our sails; this obliged us to go nearer the banks,
which were falling in, so that we could not make, though the boat was occasionally towed, more
than fourteen miles. We passed several islands and one creek on the south side, and encamped
on the north opposite a beautiful plain, which extends as far back as the Osage river, and
some miles up the Missouri. In front of our encampment are the remains of an old village of
the Little Osage, situated at some distance from the river, and at the foot of a small hill.
About three miles above them, in view of our camp is the situation of the old village of the
Missouris after they fled from the Sauks. The inroads of the same tribe compelled the Little
Osage to retire from the Missouri a few years ago, and establish themselves near the Great
Osages. The river, which is here about one mile wide, had risen in the morning, but fell towards
evening. Early this morning, June 16th, we joined the camp of our hunters, who had provided
two deer and two bear, and then passing an island and a prairie on the north covered with a
species of timothy, made our way through bad sandbars and a swift current, to an encampment
for the evening, on the north side, at ten miles distance. The timber which we examined to
day was not sufficiently strong for oars; the musquitoes and ticks are exceedingly troublesome.
On the 17th, we set out early and having come to a convenient place at one mile distance, for
procuring timber and making oars, we occupied ourselves in that way on this and the following
day. The country on the north of the river is rich and covered with timber; among which we
procured the ash for oars. At two miles it changes into extensive prairies, and at seven or
eight miles distance becomes higher and waving. The prairie and high lands on the south commence
more immediately on the river; the whole is well watered and provided with game, such as deer,
elk, and bear. The hunters brought in a fat horse which was probably lost by some war party--this
being the crossing place for the Sauks, Ayauways, and Sioux, in their excursions against the Osage.

June 19, the oars being finished, we proceeded under a gentle breeze by two large and some
smaller islands. The sandbars are numerous and so bad, that at one place we were forced to
clear away the driftwood in order to pass: the water too was so rapid that we were under the
necessity of towing the boat for half a mile round a point of rocks on the south side. We passed
two creeks, one called Tiger creek on the north, twenty-five yards wide at the extremity of
a large island called Panther Island; the other Tabo creek on the south, fifteen yards wide.
Along the shores are gooseberries and raspberries in great abundance. At the distance of seventeen
and a half miles we encamped on the south, near a lake about two miles from the river and several
in circumference; and much frequented by deer and all kinds of fowls. On the north the land
is higher and better calculated for farms than that on the south, which ascends more gradually,
but is still rich and pleasant. The musquitoes and other animals are so troublesome that musquitoe
biers or nets were distributed to the party. The next morning we passed a large island, opposite
to which on the north is a large and beautiful prairie, called Sauk prairie, the land being
fine and well timbered on both sides the river. Pelicans were seen to day. We made six and
three quarter miles, and encamped at the lower point of a small island, along the north side
of which we proceeded the next day, June 21st, but not without danger in consequence of the
sands and the rapidity of the water which rose three inches last night. Behind another island
come in from the south two creeks, called Eau, Beau, or Clear Water creeks; on the north is
a very remarkable bend, where the high lands approach the river, and form an acute angle at
the head of a large island produced by a narrow channel through the point of the bend. We passed
several other islands, and encamped at seven and a half miles on the south.

22d. The river rose during the night four inches. The water is very rapid and crowded with
concealed timber. We passed two large islands and an extensive prairie on the south, beginning
with a rich low land, and rising to the distance of seventy or eighty feet of rolling clear
country. The thermometer at three o'clock P.M. was at 87°. After coming ten and a half miles
we encamped on the south, opposite a large creek called Fire Prairie river.

23d. The wind was against us this morning, and became so violent that we made only three and
a half miles, and were obliged to lie to during the day at a small island. This is separated
from the northern side by a narrow channel which cannot be passed by boats, being choaked by
trees and drifted wood. Directly opposite on the south, is a high commanding position, more
than seventy feet above high water mark, and overlooking the river which is here of but little
width; this spot has many advantages for a fort, and trading house with the Indians.[A] The
river fell eight inches last night.

[Footnote A: The United States built in September, 1808, a factory and fort at this spot, which
is very convenient for trading with the Osages, Ayauways and Kanzas.]

The next day, 24th, we passed at eight miles distance, Hay Cabin creek coming in from the south,
about twenty yards wide, and so called from camps of straw built on it; to the north are some
rocks projecting into the river, and a little beyond them a creek on the same side, called
Charaton Scarty; that is, Charaton like the Otter.

25th. A thick fog detained us till eight o'clock, when we set sail, and at three miles reached
a bank of stone coal on the north, which appeared to be very abundant: just below it is a creek
called after the bank La Charbonniere. Four miles further, and on the southern side, comes
in a small creek, called La Benite. The prairies here approach the river and contain many fruits,
such as plums, raspberries, wild apples, and nearer the river vast quantities of mulberries.
Our encampment was at thirteen miles distance on an island to the north, opposite some hills
higher than usual, and almost one hundred and sixty or one hundred and eighty feet. 26th. At
one mile we passed at the end of a small island, Blue Water creek, which is about thirty yards
wide at its entrance from the south.[A] Here the Missouri is confined within a narrow bed,
and the current still more so by counter currents or whirls on one side and a high bank on
the other. We passed a small island and a sandbar, where our tow rope broke twice, and we rowed
round with great exertions. We saw a number of parroquets, and killed some deer; after nine
and three quarter miles we encamped at the upper point of the mouth of the river Kanzas: here
we remained two days, during which we made the necessary observations, recruited the party,
and repaired the boat. The river Kanzas takes its rise in the plains between the Arkansaw and
Platte rivers, and pursues a course generally east till its junction with the Missouri which
is in latitude 38° 31' 13"; here it is three hundred and forty and a quarter yards wide, though
it is wider a short distance above the mouth. The Missouri itself is about five hundred yards
in width; the point of union is low and subject to inundations for two hundred and fifty yards,
it then rises a little above high water mark, and continues so as far back as the hills. On
the south of the Kanzas the hills or highlands come within one mile and a half of the river;
on the north of the Missouri they do not approach nearer than several miles; but on all sides
the country is fine. The comparative specific gravities of the two rivers is, for the Missouri
seventy-eight, the Kanzas seventy-two degrees; the waters of the latter have a very disagreeable
taste, the former has risen during yesterday and to day about two feet. On the banks of the
Kanzas reside the Indians of the same name, consisting of two villages, one at about twenty,
the other forty leagues from its mouth, and amounting to about three hundred men. They once
lived twenty-four leagues higher than the Kanzas, on the south bank of the Missouri, and were
then more numerous, but they have been reduced and banished by the Sauks and Ayauways, who
being better supplied with arms have an advantage over the Kanzas, though the latter are not
less fierce or warlike than themselves. This nation is now hunting in the plains for the buffaloe
which our hunters have seen for the first time.

[Footnote A: A few miles up the Blue Water Creek are quarries of plaster of paris, since worked
and brought down to St. Louis.]

On the 29th, we set out late in the afternoon, and having passed a sandbar, near which the
boat was almost lost, and a large island on the north, we encamped at seven and a quarter miles
on the same side in the low lands, where the rushes are so thick that it is troublesome to
walk through them. Early the next morning, 30th, we reached, at five miles distance, the mouth
of a river coming in from the north, and called by the French, Petite Riviere Platte, or Little
Shallow river; it is about sixty yards wide at its mouth. A few of the party who ascended informed
us, that the lands on both sides are good, and that there are several falls well calculated
for mills; the wind was from the south west, and the weather oppressively warm, the thermometer
standing at 96° above at three o'clock P.M. One mile beyond this is a small creek on the south,
at five miles from which we encamped on the same side, opposite the lower point of an island
called Diamond island. The land on the north between the Little Shallow river, and the Missouri
is not good and subject to overflow--on the south it is higher and better timbered.

July 1st. We proceeded along the north side of Diamond island, where a small creek called Biscuit
creek empties itself. One and a half miles above the island is a large sandbar in the middle
of the river, beyond which we stopped to refresh the men, who suffered very much from the heat.
Here we observed great quantities of grapes and raspberries. Between one and two miles farther
are three islands a creek on the south known by the French name of Remore. The main current
which is now on the south side of the largest of the three islands, ran three years, as we
were told on the north, and there was then no appearance of the two smaller islands. At the
distance of four and a half miles we reached the lower point of a cluster of small islands,
two large and two small, called Isles des Pares or Field Islands. Paccaun trees were this day
seen, and large quantities of deer and turkies on the banks. We had advanced twelve miles.

July 2d. We left our encampment, opposite to which is a high and beautiful prairie on the southern
side, and passed up the south of the islands, which are high meadows, and a creek on the north
called Pare creek. Here for half an hour the river became covered with drift wood, which rendered
the navigation dangerous, and was probably caused by the giving way of some sandbar, which
had detained the wood. After making five miles we passed a stream on the south called Turky
creek, near a sandbar, where we could scarcely stem the current with twenty oars, and all the
poles we had. On the north at about two miles further is a large island called by the Indians,
Wau-car-da-war-card-da, or the Bear Medicine island. Here we landed and replaced our mast,
which had been broken three days ago, by running against a tree, overhanging the river. Thence
we proceeded, and after night stopped on the north side, above the island, having come eleven
and a half miles. Opposite our camp is a valley, in which was situated an old village of the
Kanzas, between two high points of land, and on the bank of the river. About a mile in the
rear of the village was a small fort, built by the French on an elevation. There are now no
traces of the village, but the situation of the fort may be recognized by some remains of chimnies,
and the general outline of the fortification, as well as by the fine spring which supplied
it with water. The party, who were stationed here, were probably cut off by the Indians, as
there are no accounts of them.

July 3d. A gentle breeze from the south carried us eleven and a quarter miles this day, past
two islands, one a small willow island, the other large, and called by the French Isle des
Vaches, or Cow island. At the head of this island, on the northern shore, is a large pond containing
beaver, and fowls of different kinds. After passing a bad sandbar, we stopped on the south
side at an old trading house, which is now deserted, and half a mile beyond it encamped on
the south. The land is fine along the rivers, and some distance back. We observed the black
walnut and oak, among the timber; and the honey-suckle and the buck's-eye, with the nuts on them.

The morning of the 4th July was announced by the discharge of our gun. At one mile we reached
the mouth of a bayeau or creek, coming from a large lake on the north side, which appears as
if it had once been the bed of the river, to which it runs parallel for several miles. The
water of it is clear and supplied by a small creek and several springs, and the number of goslins
which we saw on it, induced us to call it the Gosling lake. It is about three quarters of a
mile wide, and seven or eight miles long. One of our men was bitten by a snake, but a poultice
of bark and gunpowder was sufficient to cure the wound. At ten and a quarter miles we reached
a creek on the south about twelve yards wide and coming from an extensive prairie, which approached
the borders of the river. To this creek which had no name, we gave that of Fourth of July creek;
above it is a high mound, where three Indian paths centre, and from which is a very extensive
prospect. After fifteen miles sail we came to on the north a little above a creek on the southern
side, about thirty yards wide, which we called Independence creek, in honour of the day, which
we could celebrate only by an evening gun, and an additional gill of whiskey to the men.

The next day, 5th, we crossed over to the south and came along the bank of an extensive and
beautiful prairie, interspersed with copses of timber, and watered by Independence creek. On
this bank formerly stood the second village of the Kanzas; from the remains it must have been
once a large town. We passed several bad sandbars, and a small creek to the south, which we
called Yellow Ochre creek, from a bank of that mineral a little above it. The river continues
to fall. On the shores are great quantities of summer and fall grapes, berries and wild roses.
Deer is not so abundant as usual, but there are numerous tracks of elk around us. We encamped
at ten miles distance on the south side under a high bank, opposite to which was a low land
covered with tall rushes, and some timber.

July 6. We set sail, and at one mile passed a sandbar, three miles further an island, a prairie
to the north, at the distance of four miles called Reevey's prairie, after a man who was killed
there; at which place the river is confined to a very narrow channel, and by a sandbar from
the south. Four miles beyond is another sandbar terminated by a small willow island, and forming
a very considerable bend in the river towards the north. The sand of the bar is light, intermixed
with small pebbles and some pit coal. The river falls slowly, and, owing either to the muddiness
of its water, or the extreme heat of the weather, the men perspire profusely. We encamped on
the south having made twelve miles. The bird called whip-poor-will sat on the boat for some time.

In the morning, July 7th, the rapidity of the water obliged us to draw the boat along with
ropes. At six and three quarter miles, we came to a sandbar, at a point opposite a fine rich
prairie on the north, called St. Michael's. The prairies of this neighbourhood have the appearance
of distinct farms, divided by narrow strips of woodland, which follow the borders of the small
runs leading to the river. Above this, about a mile, is a cliff of yellow clay on the north.
At four o'clock we passed a narrow part of the channel, where the water is confined within
a bed of two hundred yards wide, the current running directly against the southern bank with
no sand on the north to confine it or break its force. We made fourteen miles, and halted on
the north, after which we had a violent gust about seven o'clock. One of the hunters saw in
a pond to the north which we passed yesterday a number of young swans. We saw a large rat,
and killed a wolf. Another of our men had a stroke of the sun; he was bled, and took a preparation
of nitre which relieved him considerably.

July 8. We set out early, and soon passed a small creek on the north, which we called Ordway's
creek, from our sergeant of that name who had been sent on shore with the horses, and went
up it. On the same side are three small islands, one of which is the Little Nodawa, and a large
island called the Great Nodawa* extending more than five miles, and containing seven or eight
thousand acres of high good land, rarely overflowed, and one of the largest islands of the
Missouri. It is separated from the northern shore by a small channel of from forty-five to
eighty yards wide, up which we passed, and found near the western extremity of the island the
mouth of the river Nodawa. This river persues nearly a southern course, is navigable for boats
to some distance, and about seventy yards wide above the mouth, though not so wide immediately
there, as the mud from the Missouri contracts its channel. At twelve and a quarter miles, we
encamped on the north side, near the head of Nodawa island, and opposite a smaller one in the
middle of the river. Five of the men were this day sick with violent headache. The river continues
to fall.

July 9th. We passed the island opposite to which we last night encamped, and saw near the head
of it a creek falling in from a pond on the north, to which we gave the name of Pike pond,
from the numbers of that animal which some of our party saw from the shore. The wind changed
at eight from N.E. to S.W. and brought rain. At six miles we passed the mouth of Monter's creek
on the south, and two miles above a few cabins, where one of our party had encamped with some
Frenchmen about two years ago. Further on we passed an island on the north, opposite some cliffs
on the south side, near which Loup or Wolf river falls into the Missouri. This river is about
sixty yards wide, it heads near the same sources as the Kanzas, and is navigable for boats,
at some distance up. At fourteen miles we encamped on the south side.

Tuesday 10th. We proceeded on by a prairie on the upper side of Wolf river, and at four miles
passed a creek fifteen yards wide on the south, called Pape's creek after a Spaniard of that
name, who killed himself there. At six miles we dined on an island called by the French Isle
de Salomon, or Solomon's island, opposite to which on the south is a beautiful plain covered
with grass, intermixed with wild rye and a kind of wild potatoe. After making ten miles we
stopped for the night on the northern side, opposite a cliff of yellow clay. The river has
neither risen nor fallen to day. On the north the low land is very extensive, and covered with
vines; on the south, the hills approach nearer the river, and back of them commence the plains.
There are a great many goslins along the banks.

Wednesday 11th. After three miles sailing we came to a willow island on the north side, behind
which enters a creek called by the Indians Tarkio. Above this creek on the north the low lands
are subject to overflow, and further back the undergrowth of vines particularly, is so abundant
that they can scarcely be passed. Three miles from the Tarkio we encamped on a large sand island
on the north, immediately opposite the river Nemahaw.

Thursday 12th. We remained here to day for the purpose of refreshing the party, and making
lunar observations. The Nemahaw empties itself into the Missouri from the south, and is eighty
yards wide at the confluence, which is in lat. 39° 55' 56". Capt. Clarke ascended it in the
perioque about two miles to the mouth of a small creek on the lower side. On going ashore he
found in the level plain several artificial mounds or graves, and on the adjoining hills others
of a larger size. This appearance indicates sufficiently the former population of this country;
the mounds being certainly intended as tombs; the Indians of the Missouri still preserving
the custom of interring the dead on high ground. From the top of the highest mound a delightful
prospect presented itself--the level and extensive meadows watered by the Nemahaw, and enlivened
by the few trees and shrubs skirting the borders of the river and its tributary streams--the
lowland of the Missouri covered with undulating grass, nearly five feet high, gradually rising
into a second plain, where rich weeds and flowers are interspersed with copses of the Osage
plum; further back are seen small groves of trees; an abundance of grapes; the wild cherry
of the Missouri, resembling our own, but larger, and growing on a small bush; and the chokecherry,
which we observed for the first time. Some of the grapes gathered to-day are nearly ripe. On
the south of the Nemahaw, and about a quarter of a mile from its mouth, is a cliff of freestone,
in which are various inscriptions and marks made by the Indians. The sand island where we are
encamped, is covered with the two species of willow, broad and narrow leaf.

July 13th. We proceeded at sunrise with a fair wind from the south, and at two miles, passed
the mouth of a small river on the north, called Big Tarkio. A channel from the bed of the Missouri
once ran into this river, and formed an island called St. Joseph's, but the channel is now
filled up, and the island is added to the northern shore. Further on to the south, is situated
an extensive plain, covered with a grass resembling timothy in its general appearance, except
the seed which is like flaxseed, and also a number of grapevines. At twelve miles, we passed
an island on the north, above which is a large sandbar covered with willows: and at twenty
and a half miles, stopped on a large sandbar, in the middle of the river opposite a high handsome
prairie, which extends to the hills four or five miles distant, though near the bank the land
is low, and subject to be overflowed. This day was exceedingly fine and pleasant, a storm of
wind and rain from north-northeast, last night, having cooled the air.

July 14. We had some hard showers of rain before seven o'clock, when we set out. We had just
reached the end of the sand island, and seen the opposite banks falling in, and so lined with
timber that we could not approach it without danger, when a sudden squall, from the northeast,
struck the boat on the starboard quarter, and would have certainly dashed her to pieces on
the sand island, if the party had not leaped into the river, and with the aid of the anchor
and cable kept her off: the waves dashing over her for the space of forty minutes; after which,
the river became almost instantaneously calm and smooth. The two periogues were ahead, in a
situation nearly similar, but fortunately no damage was done to the boats or the loading. The
wind having shifted to the southeast, we came at the distance of two miles, to an inland on
the north, where we dined. One mile above, on the same side of the river, is a small factory,
where a merchant of St. Louis traded with the Ottoes and Pawnees two years ago. Near this is
an extensive lowland, part of which is overflowed occasionally, the rest is rich and well timbered.
The wind again changed to northwest by north. At seven and a half miles, we reached lower point
of a large island, on the north side. A small distance above this point, is a river, called
by the Maha Indians, Nishnahbatona. This is a considerable creek, nearly as large as the Mine
river, and runs parallel to the Missouri the greater part of its course, being fifty yards
wide at the mouth. In the prairies or glades, we saw wild-timothy, lambsquarter, cuckleberries,
and on the edges of the river, summer-grapes, plums, and gooseberries. We also saw to-day,
for the first time, some elk, at which some of the party shot, but at too great a distance.
We encamped on the north side of the island, a little above Nishnahbatona, having made nine
miles. The river fell a little.

July 15. A thick fog prevented our leaving the encampment before seven. At about four miles,
we reached the extremity of the large island, and crossing to the south, at the distance of
seven miles, arrived at the Little Nemaha, a small river from the south, forty yards wide a
little above its mouth, but contracting, as do almost all the waters emptying into the Missouri,
at its confluence. At nine and three quarter miles, we encamped on a woody point, on the south.
Along the southern bank, is a rich lowland covered with peavine, and rich weeds, and watered
by small streams rising in the adjoining prairies. They too, are rich, and though with abundance
of grass, have no timber except what grows near the water; interspersed through both are grapevines,
plums of two kinds, two species of wild-cherries, hazlenuts, and gooseberries. On the south
there is one unbroken plain; on the north the river is skirted with some timber, behind which
the plain extends four or five miles to the hills, which seem to have little wood.

July 16. We continued our route between a large island opposite to our last night's encampment,
and an extensive prairie on the south. About six miles, we came to another large island, called
Fairsun island, on the same side; above which is a spot, where about twenty acres of the hill
have fallen into the river. Near this, is a cliff of sandstone for two miles, which is much
frequented by birds. At this place the river is about one mile wide, but not deep; as the timber,
or sawyers, may be seen, scattered across the whole of its bottom. At twenty miles distance,
we saw on the south, an island called by the French, l'Isle Chance, or Bald island, opposite
to a large prairie, which we called Baldpated prairie, from a ridge of naked hills which bound
it, running parallel with the river as far as we could see, and from three to six miles distance.
To the south the hills touch the river. We encamped a quarter of a mile beyond this, in a point
of woods on the north side. The river continues to fall.

Tuesday, July 17. We remained here this day, in order to make observations and correct the
chronometer, which ran down on Sunday. The latitude we found to be 40° 27' 5"4/10. The observation
of the time proved our chronometer too slow, by 6' 51"6/10. The highlands bear from our camp,
north 25° west, up the river. Captain Lewis rode up the country, and saw the Nishnahbatona,
about ten or twelve miles from its mouth, at a place not more than three hundred yards from
the Missouri, and a little above our camp. It then passes near the foot of the Baldhills, and
is at least six feet below the level of the Missouri. On its banks are the oak, walnut, and
mulberry. The common current of the Missouri, taken with the log, is 50 fathoms in 40", at
some places, and even 20".

Wednesday, July 18. The morning was fair, and a gentle wind from southeast by south, carried
us along between the prairie on the north, and Bald island to the south: opposite the middle
of which, the Nishnahbatona approaches the nearest to the Missouri. The current here ran fifty
fathoms in 41". At thirteen and a half miles, we reached an island on the north, near to which
the banks overflow; while on the south, the hills project over the river and form high cliffs.
At one point a part of the cliff, nearly three quarters of a mile in length, and about two
hundred feet in height, has fallen into the river. It is composed chiefly of sandstone intermixed
with an iron ore of bad quality; near the bottom is a soft slatestone with pebbles. We passed
several bad sandbars in the course of the day, and made eighteen miles, and encamped on the
south, opposite to the lower point of the Oven islands. The country around is generally divided
into prairies, with little timber, except on low points, islands, and near creeks, and that
consisting of cottonwood, mulberry, elm, and sycamore. The river falls fast. An Indian dog
came to the bank; he appeared to have been lost and was nearly starved: we gave him some food,
but he would not follow us.

Thursday, July 19. The Oven islands are small, and two in number; one near the south shore,
the other in the middle of the river. Opposite to them is the prairie, called Terrien's Oven,
from a trader of that name. At four and a half miles, we reached some high cliffs of a yellow
earth, on the south, near which are two beautiful runs of water, rising in the adjacent prairies,
and one of them with a deerlick, about two hundred yards from its mouth. In this neighbourhood
we observed some iron ore in the bank. At two and a half miles above the runs, a large portion
of the hill, for nearly three quarters of a mile, has fallen into the river. We encamped on
the western extremity of an island, in the middle of the river, having made ten and three quarter
miles. The river falls a little. The sandbars which we passed to-day, are more numerous, and
the rolling sands more frequent and dangerous, than any we have seen; these obstacles increasing
as we approach the river Platte. The Missouri here is wider also than below, where the timber
on the banks resists the current; while here the prairies which approach, are more easily washed
and undermined. The hunters have brought for the last few days, no quadruped, but deer: great
quantities of young geese are seen to-day: one of them brought calamus, which he had gathered
opposite our encampment, and a large quantity of sweet-flag.

Friday, July 20. There was a heavy dew last night, and this morning was foggy and cool. We
passed at about three miles distance, a small willow island to the north, and a creek on the
south, about twenty-five yards wide, called by the French, L'eau qui Pleure, or the Weeping
Water, and emptying itself just above a cliff of brown clay. Thence we made two and a half
miles to another island; three miles further to a third: six miles beyond which is a fourth
island; at the head of which we encamped on the southern shore; in all eighteen miles. The
party, who walked on the shore to-day, found the plains to the south, rich, but much parched
with frequent fires, and with no timber, except the scattering trees about the sources of the
runs, which are numerous and fine. On the north, is a similar prairie country. The river continues
to fall. A large yellow wolf was this day killed. For a month past the party have been troubled
with biles, and occasionally with the dysentery. These biles were large tumours which broke
out under the arms, on the legs, and, generally, in the parts most exposed to action, which
sometimes became too painful to permit the men to work. After remaining some days, they disappeared
without any assistance, except a poultice of the bark of the elm, or of Indian meal. This disorder,
which we ascribe to the muddiness of the river water, has not affected the general health of
the party, which is quite as good, if not better, than that of the same number of men in any
other situation.

Saturday, July 21. We had a breeze from the southeast, by the aid of which we passed, at about
ten miles, a willow island on the south, near high lands covered with timber, at the bank,
and formed of limestone with cemented shells: on the opposite side is a bad sandbar, and the
land near it is cut through at high water, by small channels forming a number of islands. The
wind lulled at seven o'clock, and we reached, in the rain, the mouth of the great river Platte,
at the distance of fourteen miles. The highlands which had accompanied us on the south, for
the last eight or ten miles, stopped at about three quarters of a mile from the entrance of
the Platte. Captains Lewis and Clarke ascended the river in a periogue, for about one mile,
and found the current very rapid; rolling over sands, and divided into a number of channels;
none of which are deeper than five or six feet. One of our Frenchmen, who spent two winters
on it, says that it spreads much more at some distance from the mouth; that its depth is generally
not more than five or six feet; that there are many small islands scattered through it, and
that from its rapidity and the quantity of its sand, it cannot be navigated by boats or periogues,
though the Indians pass it in small flat canoes made of hides. That the Saline or Salt river,
which in some seasons is too brackish to be drank, falls into it from the south about thirty
miles up, and a little above it Elkhorn river from the north, running nearly parallel with
the Missouri. The river is, in fact, much more rapid than the Missouri, the bed of which it
fills with moving sands, and drives the current on the northern shore, on which it is constantly
encroaching. At its junction the Platte is about six hundred yards wide, and the same number
of miles from the Mississippi. With much difficulty we worked round the sandbars near the mouth,
and came to above the point, having made fifteen miles. A number of wolves were seen and heard
around us in the evening.

July 22. The next morning we set sail, and having found at the distance of ten miles from the
Platte, a high and shaded situation on the north, we encamped there, intending to make the
requisite observations, and to send for the neighbouring tribes, for the purpose of making
known the recent change in the government, and the wish of the United States to cultivate their
friendship.

                               CHAP.

Our camp is by observation in latitude 41° 3' 11". Immediately behind it is a plain about five
miles wide, one half covered with wood, the other dry and elevated. The low grounds on the
south near the junction of the two rivers, are rich, but subject to be overflowed. Farther
up, the banks are higher, and opposite our camp the first hills approach the river, and are
covered with timber, such as oak, walnut, and elm. The intermediate country is watered by the
Papillon, or Butterfly creek, of about eighteen yards wide, and three miles from the Platte;
on the north are high open plains and prairies, and at nine miles from the Platte, the Musquitoe
creek, and two or three small willow islands. We stayed here several days, during which we
dried our provisions, made new oars, and prepared our despatches and maps of the country we
had passed, for the president of the United States, to whom we intend to send them by a periogue
from this place. The hunters have found game scarce in this neighbourhood; they have seen deer,
turkies, and grouse; we have also an abundance of ripe grapes; and one of our men caught a
white catfish, the eyes of which were small, and its tail resembling that of a dolphin. The
present season is that in which the Indians go out into the prairies to hunt the buffaloe;
but as we discovered some hunter's tracks, and observed the plains on fire in the direction
of their villages, we hoped that they might have returned to gather the green indian corn,
and therefore despatched two men to the Ottoes or Pawnee villages with a present of tobacco,
and an invitation to the chiefs to visit us. They returned after two days absence. Their first
course was through an open prairie to the south, in which they crossed Butterfly creek. They
then reached a small beautiful river, called Come de Cerf, or Elkhorn river, about one hundred
yards wide, with clear water and a gravelly channel. It empties a little below the Ottoe village
into the Platte, which they crossed, and arrived at the town about forty-five miles from our
camp. They found no Indians there, though they saw some fresh tracks of a small party. The
Ottoes were once a powerful nation, and lived about twenty miles above the Platte, on the southern
bank of the Missouri. Being reduced, they migrated to the neighborhood of the Pawnees, under
whose protection they now live. Their village is on the south side of the Platte, about thirty
miles from its mouth; and their number is two hundred men, including about thirty families
of Missouri Indians, who are incorporated with them. Five leagues above them, on the same side
of the river, resides the nation of Pawnees. This people were among the most numerous of the
Missouri Indians, but have gradually been dispersed and broken, and even since the year 1797,
have undergone some sensible changes. They now consist of four bands; the first is the one
just mentioned, of about five hundred men, to whom of late years have been added the second
band, who are called republican Pawnees, from their having lived on the republican branch of
the river Kanzas, whence they emigrated to join the principal band of Pawnees: the republican
Pawnees amount to nearly two hundred and fifty men. The third, are the Pawnees Loups, or Wolf
Pawnees, who reside on the Wolf fork of the Platte, about ninety miles from the principal Pawnees,
and number two hundred and eighty men. The fourth band originally resided on the Kanzas and
Arkansaw, but in their wars with the Osages, they were so often defeated, that they at last
retired to their present position on the Red river, where they form a tribe of four hundred
men. All these tribes live in villages, and raise corn; but during the intervals of culture
rove in the plains in quest of buffaloe.

Beyond them on the river, and westward of the Black mountains, are the Kaninaviesch, consisting
of about four hundred men. They are supposed to have emigrated originally from the Pawnees
nation; but they have degenerated from the improvements of the parent tribe, and no longer
live in villages, but rove through the plains.

Still further to the westward, are several tribes, who wander and hunt on the sources of the
river Platte, and thence to Rock Mountain. These tribes, of which little more is known than
the names and the population, are first, the Staitan, or Kite Indians, a small tribe of one
hundred men. They have acquired the name of Kites, from their flying; that is, their being
always on horseback; and the smallness of their numbers is to be attributed to their extreme
ferocity; they are the most warlike of all the western Indians; they never yield in battle;
they never spare their enemies; and the retaliation of this barbarity has almost extinguished
the nation. Then come the Wetapahato, and Kiawa tribes, associated together, and amounting
to two hundred men; the Castahana, of three hundred men, to which are to be added the Cataka
of seventy-five men, and the Dotami. These wandering tribes, are conjectured to be the remnants
of the Great Padouca nation, who occupied the country between the upper parts of the river
Platte, and the river Kanzas. They were visited by Bourgemont, in 1724, and then lived on the
Kanzas river. The seats, which he describes as their residence, are now occupied by the Kanzas
nation; and of the Padoucas, there does not now exist even the name.

July 27. Having completed the object of our stay, we set sail, with a pleasant breeze from
the N.W. The two horses swam over to the southern shore, along which we went, passing by an
island, at three and a half miles, formed by a pond, fed by springs: three miles further is
a large sand island, in the middle of the river; the land on the south being high, and covered
with timber; that on the north, a high prairie. At ten and a half miles from our encampment,
we saw and examined a curious collection of graves or mounds, on the south side of the river.
Not far from a low piece of land and a pond, is a tract of about two hundred acres in circumference,
which is covered with mounds of different heights, shapes, and sizes: some of sand, and some
of both earth and sand; the largest being nearest the river. These mounds indicate the position
of the ancient village of the Ottoes, before they retired to the protection of the Pawnees.
After making fifteen miles, we encamped on the south, on the bank of a high handsome prairie,
with lofty cottonwood in groves, near the river.

July 28. At one mile, this morning we reached a bluff, on the north, being the first highlands,
which approach the river on that side, since we left the Nadawa. Above this, is an island and
a creek, about fifteen yards wide, which, as it has no name, we called Indian Knob creek, from
a number of round knobs bare of timber, on the highlands, to the north. A little below the
bluff, on the north, is the spot where the Ayauway Indians formerly lived. They were a branch
of the Ottoes, and emigrated from this place to the river Desmoines. At ten and three quarter
miles, we encamped on the north, opposite an island, in the middle of the river. The land,
generally, on the north, consists of high prairie and hills, with timber: on the south, low
and covered with cottonwood. Our hunter brought to us in the evening, a Missouri Indian, whom
he had found, with two others, dressing an elk; they were perfectly friendly, gave him some
of the meat, and one of them agreed to accompany him to the boat. He is one of the few remaining
Missouris, who live with the Ottoes: he belongs to a small party, whose camp is four miles
from the river; and he says, that the body of the nation is now hunting buffaloe in the plains:
he appeared quite sprightly, and his language resembled that of the Osage, particularly in
his calling a chief, inca. We sent him back with one of our party next morning,

Sunday, July 29, with an invitation to the Indians, to meet us above on the river, and then
proceeded. We soon came to a northern bend in the river, which runs within twenty yards of
Indian Knob creek, the water of which is five feet higher than that of the Missouri. In less
than two miles, we passed Boyer's creek on the north, of twenty-five yards width. We stopped
to dine under a shade, near the highland on the south, and caught several large catfish, one
of them nearly white, and all very fat. Above this highland, we observed the traces of a great
hurricane, which passed the river obliquely from N.W. to S.E. and tore up large trees, some
of which perfectly sound, and four feet in diameter, were snapped off near the ground. We made
ten miles to a wood on the north, where we encamped. The Missouri is much more crooked, since
we passed the river Platte, though generally speaking, not so rapid; more of prairie, with
less timber, and cottonwood in the low grounds, and oak, black walnut, hickory, and elm.

July 30. We went early in the morning, three and a quarter miles, and encamped on the south,
in order to wait for the Ottoes. The land here consists of a plain, above the highwater level,
the soil of which is fertile, and covered with a grass from five to eight feet high, interspersed
with copses of large plums, and a currant, like those of the United States. It also furnishes
two species of honeysuckle; one growing to a kind of shrub, common about Harrodsburgh (Kentucky),
the other is not so high: the flowers grow in clusters, are short, and of a light pink colour;
the leaves too, are distinct, and do not surround the stalk, as do those of the common honeysuckle
of the United States. Back of this plain, is a woody ridge about seventy feet above it, at
the end of which we formed our camp. This ridge separates the lower from a higher prairie,
of a good quality, with grass, of ten or twelve inches in height, and extending back about
a mile, to another elevation of eighty or ninety feet, beyond which is one continued plain.
Near our camp, we enjoy from the bluffs a most beautiful view of the river, and the adjoining
country. At a distance, varying from four to ten miles, and of a height between seventy and
three hundred feet, two parallel ranges of highland affords a passage to the Missouri, which
enriches the low grounds between them. In its winding course, it nourishes the willow islands,
the scattered cottonwood, elm, sycamore, lynn, and ash, and the groves are interspersed with
hickory, walnut, coffeenut, and oak.

July 31. The meridian altitude of this day made the latitude of our camp 41° 18' 1-4/10". The
hunters supplied us with deer, turkies, geese, and beaver; one of the last was caught alive,
and in a very short time was perfectly tamed. Catfish are very abundant in the river, and we
have also seen a buffaloefish. One our men brought in yesterday an animal called, by the Pawnees,
chocartoosh, and, by the French, blaireau, or badger. The evening is cool, yet the musquitoes
are still very troublesome.

We waited with much anxiety the return of our messenger to the Ottoes. The men whom we despatched
to our last encampment, returned without having seen any appearance of its having been visited.
Our horses too had strayed; but we were so fortunate as to recover them at the distance of
twelve miles. Our apprehensions were at length relieved by the arrival of a party of about
fourteen Ottoe and Missouri Indians, who came at sunset, on the second of August, accompanied
by a Frenchman, who resided among them, and interpreted for us. Captains Lewis and Clarke went
out to meet them, and told them that we would hold a council in the morning. In the mean time
we sent them some roasted meat, pork, flour, and meal; in return for which they made us a present
of watermelons. We learnt that our man Liberte had set out from their camp a day before them:
we were in hopes that he had fatigued his horse, or lost himself in the woods, and would soon
return; but we never saw him again.

August 8. It is also central to the chief resorts of the Indians: one day's journey to the
Ottoes; one and a half to the great Pawnees; two days from the Mahas; two and a quarter from
the Pawnees Loups village; convenient to the hunting grounds of the Sioux; and twenty-five
days journey to Santa Fee.

The ceremonies of the council being concluded, we set sail in the afternoon, and encamped at
the distance of five miles, on the south side, where we found the musquitoes very troublesome.

August 4. A violent wind, accompanied by rain, purified and cooled the atmosphere last night;
we proceeded early, and reached a very narrow part of the river, where the channel is confined
within a space of two hundred yards, by a sand point on the north, and a bend on the south;
the banks in the neighbourhood washing away, the trees falling in, and the channel filled with
buried logs. Above this is a trading house, on the south, where one of our party passed two
years, trading with the Mahas. At nearly four miles, is a creek on the south, emptying opposite
a large island of sand; between this creek and our last night's encampment, the river has changed
its bed, and encroached on the southern shore. About two miles further, is another creek on
the south, which, like the former, is the outlet of three ponds, communicating with each other,
and forming a small lake, which is fed by streams from the highlands. At fifteen miles, we
encamped on the south. The hills on both sides of the river are nearly twelve or fifteen miles
from each other; those of the north containing some timber, while the hills of south are without
any covering, except some scattering wood in the ravines, and near where the creeks pass into
the hills; rich plains and prairies occupying the intermediate space, and partially covered,
near the water, with cottonwood. There has been a great deal of pumice stone on shore to-day.

August 5th. We set out early, and, by means of our oars, made twenty and a half miles, though
the river was crowded with sandbars. On both sides the prairies extend along the river; the
banks being covered with great quantities of grapes, of which three different species are now
ripe; one large and resembling the purple grape. We had some rain this morning, attended by
high wind; but generally speaking, have remarked that thunder storms are less frequent than
in the Atlantic states, at this season. Snakes too are less frequent, though we killed one
to-day of the shape and size of the rattlesnake, but of a lighter colour. We fixed our camp
on the north side. In the evening, captain Clarke, in pursuing some game, in an eastern direction,
found himself at the distance of three hundred and seventy yards from the camp, at a point
of the river whence we had come twelve miles. When the water is high, this peninsula is overflowed,
and judging from the customary and notorious changes in the river, a few years will be sufficient
to force the main current of the river across, and leave the great bend dry. The whole lowland
between the parallel range of hills seems formed of mud or ooze of the river, at some former
period, mixed with sand and clay. The sand of the neighbouring banks accumulates with the aid
of that brought down the stream, and forms sandbars, projecting into the river; these drive
the channel to the opposite banks, the loose texture of which it undermines, and at length
deserts its ancient bed for a new and shorter passage; it is thus that the banks of the Missouri
are constantly falling, and the river changing its bed.

August 6. In the morning, after a violent storm of wind and rain from N.W. we passed a large
island to the north. In the channel separating it from the shore, a creek called Soldier's
river enters; the island kept it from our view, but one of our men who had seen it, represents
it as about forty yards wide at its mouth. At five miles, we came to a bend of the river towards
the north, a sandbar, running in from the south, had turned its course so as to leave the old
channel quite dry. We again saw the same appearance at our encampment, twenty and a half miles
distant on the north side. Here the channel of the river had encroached south, and the old
bed was without water, except a few ponds. The sandbars are still very numerous.

August 7. We had another storm from the N.W. in the course of the last evening; in the morning
we proceeded, having the wind from the north, and encamped on the northern shore, having rowed
seventeen miles. The river is here encumbered with sandbars, but no islands, except two small
ones, called Detachment islands, and formed on the south side by a small stream.

We despatched four men back to the Ottoes village in quest of our man, Liberte, and to apprehend
one of the soldiers, who left us on the 4th, under pretence of recovering a knife which he
had dropped a short distance behind, and who we fear has deserted. We also sent small presents
to the Ottoes and Missouris, and requested that they would join us at the Maha village, where
a peace might be concluded between them.

August 8. At two miles distance, this morning we came to a part of the river, where there was
concealed timber difficult to pass. The wind was from the N.W. and we proceeded in safety.
At six miles, a river empties on the northern side, called by the Sioux Indians, Eaneahwadepon,
or Stone river; and by the French, Petite Riviere des Sioux, or Little Sioux river. At its
confluence it is eighty yards wide. Our interpreter, Mr. Durion, who has been to the sources
of it, and knows the adjoining country, says that it rises within about nine miles of the river
Desmoines; that within fifteen leagues of that river it passes through a large lake nearly
sixty miles in circumference, and divided into two parts by rocks which approach each other
very closely: its width is various: it contains many islands, and is known by the name of the
Lac d'Esprit: it is near the Dogplains, and within four days march of the Mahas. The country
watered by it, is open and undulating, and may be visited in boats up the river for some distance.
The Desmoines, he adds, is about eighty yards wide where the Little Sioux river approaches
it: it is shoaly, and one of its principal branches is called Cat river. Two miles beyond this
river is a long island which we called Pelican island, from the numbers of that animal which
were feeding on it: one of these being killed, we poured into his bag five gallons of water.
An elk, too, was shot, and we had again to remark that snakes are rare in this part of the
Missouri. A meridian altitude near the Little Sioux river made the latitude 41° 42' 34". We
encamped on the north, having come sixteen miles.

August 9. A thick fog detained us until past seven o'clock, after which we proceeded with a
gentle breeze from the southeast. After passing two sandbars we reached, at seven and a half
miles, a point of highland on the left, near which the river has forced itself a channel across
a peninsula, leaving on the right a circuit of twelve or eighteen miles, which is now recognised
by the ponds and islands it contains. At seventeen and a half miles, we reached a point on
the north, where we encamped. The hills are at a great distance from the river for the last
several days; the land, on both sides low, and covered with cottonwood and abundance of grape
vines. An elk was seen to-day, a turkey also shot, and near our camp is a beaver den: the musquitoes
have been more troublesome than ever for the two last days.

August 10. At two and a half miles, we came to a place, called Coupee a Jacques, where the
river has found a new bed, and abridged a circuit of several miles: at twelve and a half miles,
a cliff of yellow stone on the left. This is the first highland near the river above the Council-bluff.
After passing a number of sandbars we reached a willow island at the distance of twenty-two
and a half miles, which we were enabled to do with our oars and a wind from the S.W. and encamped
on the north side.

August 11. After a violent wind from the N.W. attended with rain, we sailed along the right
of the island. At nearly five miles, we halted on the south side for the purpose of examining
a spot where one of the great chiefs of the Mahas named Blackbird, who died about four years
ago of the smallpox, was buried. A hill of yellow soft sandstone rises from the river in bluffs
of various heights, till it ends in a knoll about three hundred feet above the water; on the
top of this a mound, of twelve feet diameter at the base and six feet high, is raised over
the body of the deceased king; a pole of about eight feet high is fixed in the centre; on which
we placed a white flag, bordered with red, blue, and white. The Blackbird seems to have been
a personage of great consideration; for ever since his death he is supplied with provisions,
from time to time, by the superstitious regard of the Mahas. We descended to the river and
passed a small creek on the south, called, by the Mahas, Waucandipeeche, (Great Spirit is bad.)
Near this creek and the adjoining hills the Mahas had a village, and lost four hundred of their
nation by the dreadful malady which destroyed the Blackbird. The meridian altitude made the
latitude 42° 1' 3-8/10" north. We encamped, at seventeen miles distance, on the north side
in a bend of the river. During our day's course it has been crooked; we observed a number of
places in it where the old channel is filled up, or gradually becoming covered with willow
and cottonwood; great numbers of herons are observed to-day, and the mosquitoes annoy us very much.

August 12. A gentle breeze from the south, carried us along about ten miles, when we stopped
to take meridian altitude, and sent a man across to our place of observation: yesterday he
stepped nine hundred and seventy-four yards, and the distance we had come round, was eighteen
miles and three quarters. The river is wider and shallower than usual. Four miles beyond this
bend a bluff begins, and continues several miles; on the south it rises from the water at different
heights, from twenty to one hundred and fifty feet, and higher as it recedes on the river:
it consists of yellow and brown clay, with soft sandstone imbeded in it, and is covered with
timber, among which may be observed some red cedar: the lands on the opposite side are low
and subject to inundation, but contain willows, cottonwood, and many grapes. A prairie-wolf
came near the bank and barked at us; we attempted unsuccessfully to take him. This part of
the river abounds in beaver. We encamped on a sand-island in a bend to the north, having made
twenty miles and a quarter.

August 13. Set out at daylight with a breeze from the southeast, and passed several sandbars.
Between ten and eleven miles, we came to a spot on the south, where a Mr. Mackay had a trading
establishment in the year 1795 and 1796, which he called Fort Charles. At fourteen miles, we
reached a creek on the south, on which the Mahas reside, and at seventeen miles and a quarter,
formed a camp on a sandbar, to the south side of the river, opposite the lower point of a large
island. From this place sergeant Ordway and four men were detached to the Maha village with
a flag and a present, in order to induce them to come and hold a council with us. They returned
at twelve o'clock the next day, August 14. After crossing a prairie covered with high grass,
they reached the Maha creek, along which they proceeded to its three forks, which join near
the village: they crossed the north branch and went along the south; the walk was very fatiguing,
as they were forced to break their way through grass, sunflowers and thistles, all above ten
feet high, and interspersed with wild pea. Five miles from our camp they reached the position
of the ancient Maha village: it had once consisted of three hundred cabins, but was burnt about
four years ago, soon after the smallpox had destroyed four hundred men, and a proportion of
women and children. On a hill, in the rear of the village, are the graves of the nation; to
the south of which runs the fork of the Maha creek: this they crossed where it was about ten
yards wide, and followed its course to the Missouri, passing along a ridge of hill for one
and a half mile, and a long pond between that and the Missouri: they then recrossed the Maha
creek, and arrived at the camp, having seen no tracks of Indians nor any sign of recent cultivation.

In the morning 15th, some men were sent to examine the cause of a large smoke from the northeast,
and which seemed to indicate that some Indians were near; but they found that a small party,
who had lately passed that way, had left some trees burning, and that the wind from that quarter
blew the smoke directly towards us. Our camp lies about three miles northeast from the old
Maha village, and is in latitude 42° 15' 41".

On the 16th, we still waited for the Indians: a party had gone out yesterday to the Maha creek,
which was damned up by the beaver between the camp and the village: a second went to-day. They
made a kind of drag with small willows and bark, and swept the creek: the first company brought
three hundred and eighteen, the second upwards of eight hundred, consisting of pike, bass,
fish resembling salmon, trout, redhorse, buffaloe, one rockfish, one flatback, perch, catfish,
a small species of perch called, on the Ohio, silverfish, a shrimp of the same size, shape
and flavour of those about Neworleans, and the lower part of the Mississippi. We also found
very fat muscles; and on the river as well as the creek, are different kinds of ducks and plover.
The wind, which in the morning had been from the northwest, shifted round in the evening to
the southeast, and as usual we had a breeze, which cooled the air and relieve us from the musquitoes,
who generally give us great trouble.

Friday 17. The wind continued from the southeast, and the morning was fair. We observe about
us a grass resembling wheat, except that the grain is like rye, also some similar to both rye
and barley, and a kind of timothy, the seed of which branches from the main stock, and is more
like a flaxseed than a timothy. In the evening, one of the party sent to the Ottoes, returned
with the information that the rest were coming on with the deserter: they had also caught Liberte,
but, by a trick, he made his escape: they were bringing three of the chiefs in order to engage
our assistance in making peace with the Mahas. This nation having left their village, that
desirable purpose cannot be effected; but in order to bring in any neighbouring tribes, we
set the surrounding prairies on fire. This is the customary signal made by traders to apprize
the Indians of their arrival: it is also used between different nations as an indication of
any event which they have previously agreed to announce in that way; and as soon as it is seen
collects the neighbouring tribes, unless they apprehend that it is made by their enemies.

August 18. In the afternoon the party arrived with the Indians, consisting of the Little Thief
and the Big Horse, whom we had seen on the third, together with six other chiefs, and a French
interpreter. These two tribes speak very nearly the same language: they all begged us to give
them whiskey.

The next morning, August 20, the Indians mounted their horses and left us, having received
a canister of whiskey at parting. We then set sail, and after passing two islands on the north,
came to on that side under some bluffs; the first near the river since we left the Ayauwa village.
Here we had the misfortune to lose one of our sergeants, Charles Floyd. He was yesterday seized
with a bilious cholic, and all our care and attention were ineffectual to relieve him: a little
before his death, he said to captain Clark, "I am going to leave you," his strength failed
him as he added "I want you to write me a letter," but he died with a composure which justified
the high opinion we had formed of his firmness and good conduct. He was buried on the top of
the bluff with the honours due to a brave soldier; and the place of his interment marked by
a cedar post, on which his name and the day of his death were inscribed. About a mile beyond
this place, to which we gave his name, is a small river about thirty yards wide, on the north,
which we called Floyd's river, where we encamped. We had a breeze from the southeast, and made
thirteen miles.

August 21. The same breeze from the southeast carried us by a small willow creek on the north,
about one mile and a half above Floyd's river. Here began a range of bluffs which continued
till near the mouth of the great Sioux river, three miles beyond Floyd's. This river comes
in from the north, and is about one hundred and ten yards wide. Mr. Durion, our Sioux interpreter,
who is well acquainted with it, says that it is navigable upwards of two hundred miles to the
falls, and even beyond them; that its sources are near those of the St. Peters. He also says,
that below the falls a creek falls in from the eastward, after passing through cliffs of red
rock: of this the Indians make their pipes; and the necessity of procuring that article, has
introduced a sort of law of nations, by which the banks of the creek are sacred, and even tribes
at war meet without hostility at these quarries, which possess a right of asylum. Thus we find
even among savages certain principles deemed sacred, by which the rigours of their merciless
system of warfare are mitigated. A sense of common danger, where stronger ties are wanting,
gives all the binding force of more solemn obligations. The importance of preserving the known
and settled rules of warfare among civilized nations, in all their integrity, becomes strikingly
evident; since even savages, with their few precarious wants, cannot exist in a state of peace
or war where this faith is once violated. The wind became southerly, and blew with such violence
that we took a reef in our sail: it also blew the sand from the bars in such quantities, that
we could not see the channel at any distance ahead. At four and a quarter miles, we came to
two willow islands, beyond which are several sandbars; and at twelve miles, a spot where the
Mahas once had a village, now no longer existing. We again passed a number of sandbars, and
encamped on the south; having come twenty-four and three quarter miles. The country through
which we passed has the same uniform appearance ever since we left the river Platte: rich low-grounds
near the river, succeeded by undulating prairies, with timber near the waters. Some wolves
were seen to-day on the sandbeaches to the south; we also procured an excellent fruit, resembling
a red currant, growing on a shrub like the privy, and about the height of a wild plum.

August 22. About three miles distance, we joined the men who had been sent from the Maha village
with our horses, and who brought us two deer. The bluffs or hills which reach the river at
this place, on the south, contain allum, copperas, cobalt which had the appearance of soft
isinglass, pyrites, and sandstone, the two first very pure. Above this bluff comes in a small
creek on the south, which we call Rologe creek. From this the river bends to the eastward,
and approaches the Sioux river within three or four miles. We sailed the greater part of the
day, and made nineteen miles to our camp on the north side. The sandbars are as usual numerous:
there are also considerable traces of elk; but none are yet seen. Captain Lewis in proving
the quality of some of the substances in the first cliff, was considerably injured by the fumes
and taste of the cobalt, and took some strong medicine to relieve him from its effects. The
appearance of these mineral substances enable us to account for disorders of the stomach, with
which the party had been affected since they left the river Sioux. We had been in the habit
of dipping up the water of the river inadvertently and making use of it, till, on examination,
the sickness was thought to proceed from a scum covering the surface of the water along the
southern shore, and which, as we now discovered, proceeded from these bluffs. The men had been
ordered, before we reached the bluffs, to agitate the water, so as to disperse the scum, and
take the water, not at the surface, but at some depth. The consequence was, that these disorders
ceased: the biles too which had afflicted the men, were not observed beyond the Sioux river.
In order to supply the place of sergeant Floyd, we permitted the men to name three persons,
and Patrick Gass having the greatest number of votes was made a sergeant.

August 23. We set out early, and at four miles came to a small run between cliffs of yellow
and blue earth: the wind, however, soon changed, and blew so hard from the west, that we proceeded
very slowly; the fine sand from the bar being driven in such clouds, that we could scarcely
see. Three and a quarter miles beyond this run, we came to a willow island, and a sand island
opposite, and encamped on the south side, at ten and a quarter miles. On the north side is
an extensive and delightful prairie, which we called Buffaloe prairie, from our having here
killed the first buffaloe. Two elk swam the river to-day and were fired at, but escaped: a
deer was killed from the boat; one beaver was killed; and several prairie wolves were seen.

August 24. It began to rain last night, and continued this morning: we proceeded, however,
two and a quarter miles, to the commencement of a bluff of blue clay, about one hundred and
eighty, or one hundred and ninety feet on the south side: it seems to have been lately on fire;
and even now the ground is so warm that we cannot keep our hands in it at any depth: there
are strong appearances of coal, and also great quantities of cobalt, or a crystalized substance
resembling it. There is a fruit now ripe which looks like a currant, except that it is double
the size, and grows on a bush like a privy, the size of a damson, and of a delicious flavour;
its Indian name means rabbit-berries. We then passed, at the distance of about seven miles,
the mouth of a creek on the north side, called by an Indian name, meaning Whitestone river.
The beautiful prairie of yesterday, has changed into one of greater height, and very smooth
and extensive. We encamped on the south side, at ten and a quarter miles, and found ourselves
much annoyed by the musquitoes.

                                CHAP.

August 25. Captains Lewis and Clarke, with ten men, went to see an object deemed very extraordinary
among all the neighbouring Indians. They dropped down to the mouth of Whitestone river, about
thirty yards wide, where they left the boat, and at the distance of two hundred yards, ascended
a rising ground, from which a plain extended itself as far as the eye could discern. After
walking four miles, they crossed the creek where it is twenty-three yards wide, and waters
an extensive valley. The heat was so oppressive that we were obliged to send back our dog to
the creek, as he was unable to bear the fatigue; and it was not till after four hours march
that we reached the object of our visit. This was a large mound in the midst of the plain about
N. 20° W. from the month of Whitestone river, from which it is nine miles distant. The base
of the mound is a regular parallelogram, the longest side being about three hundred yards,
the shorter sixty or seventy: from the longest side it rises with a steep ascent from the north
and south to the height of sixty-five or seventy feet, leaving on the top a level plain of
twelve feet in breadth and ninety in length. The north and south extremities are connected
by two oval borders which serve as new bases, and divide the whole side into three steep but
regular gradations from the plain. The only thing characteristic in this hill is its extreme
symmetry, and this, together with its being totally detached from the other hills which are
at the distance of eight or nine miles, would induce a belief that it was artificial; but,
as the earth and the loose pebbles which compose it, are arranged exactly like the steep grounds
on the borders of the creek, we concluded from this similarity of texture that it might be
natural. The soil of these plains is exceedingly fine; there is, however, no timber except
on the Missouri: all the wood of the Whitestone river not being sufficient to cover thickly
one hundred acres. The plain country which surrounds this mound has contributed not a little
to its bad reputation: the wind driving from every direction over the level ground obliges
the insects to seek shelter on its leeward side, or be driven against us by the wind. The small
birds, whose food they are, resort of course in great numbers in quest of subsistence; and
the Indians always seem to discover an unusual assemblage of birds as produced by some supernatural
cause: among them we observed the brown martin employed in looking for insects, and so gentle
that they did not fly until we got within a few feet of them. We have also distinguished among
numerous birds of the plain, the blackbird, the wren or prairie bird, and a species of lark
about the size of a partridge, with a short tail. The excessive heat and thirst forced us from
the hill, about one o'clock, to the nearest water, which we found in the creek, at three miles
distance, and remained an hour and a half. We then went down the creek, through a lowland about
one mile in width, and crossed it three times, to the spot where we first reached it in the
morning. Here we gathered some delicious plums, grapes and blue currants, and afterwards arrived
at the mouth of the river about sunset. To this place the course from the mound is S. twenty
miles, E. nine miles; we there resumed our periogue, and on reaching our encampment of last
night set the prairies on fire, to warn the Sioux of our approach. In the mean time, the boat
under serjeant Pryor had proceeded in the afternoon one mile, to a bluff of blue clay on the
south, and after passing a sandbar and two sand islands fixed their camp at the distance of
six miles on the south. In the evening some rain fell. We had killed a duck and several birds:
in the boat, they had caught some large catfish.

Sunday, August 26. We rejoined the boat at nine o'clock before she set out, and then passing
by an island, and under a cliff on the south, nearly two miles in extent and composed of white
and blue earth, encamped at nine miles distance, on a sandbar towards the north. Opposite to
this, on the south, is a small creek called Petit Arc or Little Bow, and a short distance above
it, an old village of the same name. This village, of which nothing remains but the mound of
earth about four feet high surrounding it, was built by a Maha chief named Little Bow, who
being displeased with Blackbird, the late king, seceded with two hundred followers and settled
at this spot, which is now abandoned, as the two villages have reunited since the death of
Blackbird. We have great quantities of grapes, and plums of three kinds; two of a yellow colour,
and distinguished by one of the species being longer than the other; and a third round and
red: all have an excellent flavour, particularly those of the yellow kind.

August 27. The morning star appeared much larger than usual. A gentle breeze from the southeast
carried us by some large sandbars, on both sides and in the middle of the river, to a bluff,
on the south side, at seven and a half miles distant; this bluff is of white clay or chalk,
under which is much stone, like lime, incrusted with a clear substance, supposed to be cobalt,
and some dark ore. Above this bluff we set the prairie on fire, to invite the Sioux. After
twelve and a half miles, we had passed several other sandbars, and now reached the mouth of
a river called by the French Jacques (James river) or Yankton, from the tribe which inhabits
its banks. It is about ninety yards wide at the confluence: the country which it waters is
rich prairie, with little timber: it becomes deeper and wider above its mouth, and may be navigated
a great distance; as its sources rise near those of St. Peter's, of the Mississippi, and the
red river of lake Winnipeg. As we came to the mouth of the river, an Indian swam to the boat;
and, on our landing, we were met by two others, who informed us that a large body of Sioux
were encamped near us: they accompanied three of our men, with an invitation to meet us at
a spot above the river: the third Indian remained with us: he is a Maha boy, and says that
his nation have gone to the Pawnees to make peace with them. At fourteen miles, we encamped
on a sandbar to the north. The air was cool, the evening pleasant, the wind from the southeast,
and light. The river has fallen gradually, and is now low.

Tuesday, 28th. We passed, with a stiff breeze from the south, several sandbars. On the south
is a prairie which rises gradually from the water to the height of a bluff, which is, at four
miles distance, of a whitish colour, and about seventy or eighty feet high. Further on is another
bluff, of a brownish colour, on the north side; and at the distance of eight and a half miles
is the beginning of Calumet bluff, on the south side, under which we formed our camp, in a
beautiful plain, to wait the arrival of the Sioux. At the first bluff the young Indian left
us and joined their camp. Before reaching Calumet bluff one of the periogues ran upon a log
in the river, and was rendered unfit for service; so that all our loading was put into the
second periogue. On both sides of the river are fine prairies, with cotton wood; and near the
bluff there is more timber in the points and valleys than we have been accustomed to see.

Wednesday, 29th. We had a violent storm of wind and rain last evening; and were engaged during
the day in repairing the periogue, and other necessary occupations; when, at four o'clock in
the afternoon, sergeant Pryor and his party arrived on the opposite side, attended by five
chiefs, and about seventy men and boys. We sent a boat for them, and they joined us, as did
also Mr. Durion, the son of our interpreter, who happened to be trading with the Sioux at this
time. He returned with sergeant Pryor to the Indians, with a present of tobacco, corn, and
a few kettles; and told them that we would speak to their chiefs in the morning. The lodges
contain from ten to fifteen persons, and the interior arrangement is compact and handsome,
each lodge having a place for cooking detached from it.

August 30th. Thursday. The fog was so thick that we could not see the Indian camp on the opposite
side, but it cleared off about eight o'clock. Their musical instruments were the drum, and
a sort of little bag made of buffaloe hide, dressed white, with small shot or pebbles in it,
and a bunch of hair tied to it. This produces a sort of rattling music, with which the party
was annoyed by four musicians during the council this morning.

August 31. In the evening they left us, and encamped on the opposite bank, accompanied by the
two Durions. During the evening and night we had much rain, and observed that the river rises
a little.

Whilst these Indians remained with us we made very minute inquiries relative to their situation
and numbers, and trade, and manners. This we did very satisfactorily, by means of two different
interpreters; and from their accounts, joined to our interviews with other bands of the same
nation, and much intelligence acquired since, we were enabled to understand, with some accuracy,
the condition of the Sioux hitherto so little known.

The Sioux, or Dacorta Indians, originally settled on the Mississippi, and called by Carver,
Madowesians, are now subdivided into tribes, as follow:

First, The Yanktons: this tribe inhabits the Sioux, Desmoines, and Jacques rivers, and number
about two hundred warriors.

Second, The Tetons of the burnt woods. This tribe numbers about three hundred men, who rove
on both sides of the Missouri, the White, and Teton rivers.

Third. The Tetons Okandandas, a tribe consisting of about one hundred and fifty men, who inhabit
both sides of the Missouri below the Chayenne river.

Fourth, Tetons Minnakenozzo, a nation inhabiting both sides of the Missouri, above the Chayenne
river, and containing about two hundred and fifty men.

Fifth, Tetons Saone; these inhabit both sides of the Missouri below the Warreconne river, and
consist of about three hundred men.

Sixth, Yanktons of the Plains, or Big Devils; who rove on the heads of the Sioux, Jacques,
and Red river; the most numerous of all the tribes, and number about five hundred men.

Seventh, Wahpatone; a nation residing on the St. Peter's, just above the mouth of that river,
and numbering two hundred men.

Eighth, Mindawarcarton, or proper Dacorta or Sioux Indians. These possess the original seat
of the Sioux, and are properly so denominated. They rove on both sides of the Mississippi,
about the falls of St. Anthony, and consist of three hundred men.

Ninth, The Wahpatoota, or Leaf Beds. This nation inhabits both sides of the river St. Peter's,
below Yellow-wood river, amounting to about one hundred and fifty men.

Tenth, Sistasoone: this nation numbers two hundred men, and reside at the head of the St. Peter's.
Of these several tribes, more particular notice will be taken hereafter.

Saturday, September 1, 1804. We proceeded this morning under a light southern breeze, and passed
the Calumet bluffs; these are composed of a yellowish red, and brownish clay as hard as chalk,
which it much resembles, and are one hundred and seventy, or one hundred and eighty feet high.
At this place the hills on each side come to the verge of the river, those on the south being
higher than on the north. Opposite the bluffs is a large island covered with timber; above
which the highlands form a cliff over the river on the north side, called White Bear cliff;
an animal of that kind being killed in one of the holes in it, which are numerous and apparently
deep. At six miles we came to a large sand island covered with cottonwood; the wind was high,
and the weather rainy and cloudy during the day. We made fifteen miles to a place on the north
side, at the lower point of a large island called Bonhomme, or Goodman's island. The country
on both sides has the same character of prairies, with no timber; with occasional lowlands
covered with cottonwood, elm and oak: our hunters had killed an elk and a beaver: the catfish
too are in great abundance.

September 2. It rained last night, and this morning we had a high wind from the N.W. We went
three miles to the lower part of an ancient fortification on the south side, and passed the
head of Bonhomme island, which is large and well timbered: after this the wind became so violent,
attended by a cold rain, that we were compelled to land at four miles on the northern side,
under a high bluff of yellow clay, about one hundred and ten feet in height. Our hunters supplied
us with four elk; and we had grapes and plums on the banks: we also saw the beargrass and rue,
on the side of the bluffs. At this place there are highlands on both sides of the river which
become more level at some distance back, and contain but few streams of water. On the southern
bank, during this day, the grounds have not been so elevated. Captain Clarke crossed the river
to examine the remains of the fortification we had just passed.

This interesting object is on the south side of the Missouri, opposite the upper extremity
of Bonhomme island, and in a low level plain, the hills being three miles from the river. It
begins by a wall composed of earth, rising immediately from the bank of the river and running
in a direct course S. 76°, W. ninety six yards; the base of this wall or mound is seventy-five
feet, and its height about eight. It then diverges in a course S. 84° W. and continues at the
same height and depth to the distance of fifty-three yards, the angle being formed by a sloping
descent; at the junction of these two is an appearance of a hornwork of the same height with
the first angle: the same wall then pursues a course N. 69° W. for three hundred yards: near
its western extremity is an opening or gateway at right angles to the wall, and projecting
inwards; this gateway is defended by two nearly semicircular walls placed before it, lower
than the large walls; and from the gateway there seems to have been a covered way communicating
with the interval between these two walls: westward of the gate, the wall becomes much larger,
being about one hundred and five feet at its base, and twelve feet high: at the end of this
high ground the wall extends for fifty-six yards on a course N. 32° W; it then turns N. 23°
W. for seventy-three yards: these two walls seems to have had a double or covered way; they
are from ten to fifteen feet eight inches in height, and from seventy-five to one hundred and
five feet in width at the base; the descent inwards being steep, whilst outwards it forms a
sort of glacis. At the distance of seventy-three yards, the wall ends abruptly at a large hollow
place much lower than the general level of the plain, and from which is some indication of
a covered way to the water. The space between them is occupied by several mounds scattered
promiscuously through the gorge, in the centre of which is a deep round hole. From the extremity
of the last wall, in a course N. 32° W. is a distance of ninety-six yards over the low ground,
where the wall recommences and crosses the plain in a course N. 81° W. for eighteen hundred
and thirty yards to the bank of the Missouri. In this course its height is about eight feet,
till it enters, at the distance of five hundred and thirty-three yards, a deep circular pond
of seventy-three yards diameter; after which it is gradually lower, towards the river: it touches
the river at a muddy bar, which bears every mark of being an encroachment of the water, for
a considerable distance; and a little above the junction, is a small circular redoubt. Along
the bank of the river, and at eleven hundred yards distance, in a straight line from this wall,
is a second, about six feet high, and of considerable width: it rises abruptly from the bank
of the Missouri, at a point where the river bends, and goes straight forward, forming an acute
angle with the last wall, till it enters the river again, not far from the mounds just described,
towards which it is obviously tending. At the bend the Missouri is five hundred yards wide;
the ground on the opposite side highlands, or low hills on the bank; and where the river passes
between this fort and Bonhomme island, all the distance from the bend, it is constantly washing
the banks into the stream, a large sandbank being already taken from the shore near the wall.
During the whole course of this wall, or glacis, it is covered with trees, among which are
many large cotton trees, two or three feet in diameter. Immediately opposite the citadel, or
the part most strongly fortified, on Bonhomme island, is a small work in a circular form, with
a wall surrounding it, about six feet in height. The young willows along the water, joined
to the general appearance of the two shores, induce a belief that the bank of the island is
encroaching, and the Missouri indemnifies itself by washing away the base of the fortification.
The citadel contains about twenty acres, but the parts between the long walls must embrace
nearly five hundred acres.

These are the first remains of the kind which we have had an opportunity of examining; but
our French interpreters assure us, that there are great numbers of them on the Platte, the
Kanzas, the Jacques, &c. and some of our party say, that they observed two of those fortresses
on the upper side of the Petit Arc creek, not far from its mouth; that the wall was about six
feet high, and the sides of the angles one hundred yards in length.

September 3. The morning was cold, and the wind from the northwest. We passed at sunrise, three
large sandbars, and at the distance of ten miles reached a small creek, about twelve yards
wide, coming in from the north, above a white bluff: this creek has obtained the name of Plum
creek, from the number of that fruit which are in the neighbourhood, and of a delightful quality.
Five miles further, we encamped on the south near the edge of a plain; the river is wide, and
covered with sandbars to-day: the banks are high and of a whitish colour; the timber scarce,
but an abundance of grapes. Beaver houses too have been observed in great numbers on the river,
but none of the animals themselves.

September 4. We set out early, with a very cold wind from S.S.E. and at one mile and a half,
reached a small creek, called Whitelime creek, on the south side. Just above this is a cliff,
covered with cedar trees, and at three miles a creek, called Whitepaint creek, of about thirty
yards wide: on the same side, and at four and a half miles distance from the Whitepaint creek,
is the Rapid river, or, as it is called by the French, la Riverequi Court; this river empties
into the Missouri, in a course S.W. by W. and is one hundred and fifty-two yards wide, and
four feet deep at the confluence. It rises in the Black mountains, and passes through a hilly
country, with a poor soil. Captain Clark ascended three miles to a beautiful plain, on the
upper side, where the Pawnees once had a village: he found that the river widened above its
mouth, and much divided by sands and islands, which, joined to the great rapidity of the current,
makes the navigation very difficult, even for small boats. Like the Platte its waters are of
a light colour; like that river too it throws out into the Missouri, great quantities of sand,
coarser even than that of the Platte, which form sandbars and shoals near its mouth.

We encamped just above it, on the south, having made only eight miles, as the wind shifted
to the south, and blew so hard that in the course of the day we broke our mast: we saw some
deer, a number of geese, and shot a turkey and a duck: the place in which we halted is a fine
low-ground, with much timber, such as red cedar, honeylocust, oak, arrowwood, elm and coffeenut.

September 5, Wednesday. The wind was again high from the south. At five miles, we came to a
large island, called Pawnee island, in the middle of the river; and stopped to breakfast at
a small creek on the north, which has the name of Goat creek, at eight and a half miles. Near
the mouth of this creek the beaver had made a dam across so as to form a large pond, in which
they built their houses. Above this island the river Poncara falls into the Missouri from the
south, and is thirty yards wide at the entrance. Two men whom we despatched to the village
of the same name, returned with information that they had found it on the lower side of the
creek; but as this is the hunting season, the town was so completely deserted that they had
killed a buffaloe in the village itself. This tribe of Poncaras, who are said to have once
numbered four hundred men, are now reduced to about fifty, and have associated for mutual protection
with the Mahas, who are about two hundred in number. These two nations are allied by a similarity
of misfortune; they were once both numerous, both resided in villages, and cultivated Indian
corn; their common enemies, the Sioux and small-pox, drove them from their towns, which they
visit only occasionally for the purposes of trade; and they now wander over the plains on the
sources of the Wolf and Quieurre rivers. Between the Pawnee island and Goat creek on the north,
is a cliff of blue earth, under which are several mineral springs, impregnated with salts:
near this we observed a number of goats, from which the creek derives its name. At three and
a half miles from the creek, we came to a large island on the south, along which we passed
to the head of it, and encamped about four o'clock. Here we replaced the mast we had lost,
with a new one of cedar: some bucks and an elk were procured to-day, and a black tailed deer
was seen near the Poncara's village.

Thursday, September 6. There was a storm this morning from the N.W. and though it moderated,
the wind was still high, and the weather very cold; the number of sandbars too, added to the
rapidity of the current, obliged us to have recourse to the towline: with all our exertions
we did not make more than eight and a half miles, and encamped on the north, after passing
high cliffs of soft, blue, and red coloured stone, on the southern shore. We saw some goats,
and great numbers of buffaloe, in addition to which the hunters furnished us with elk, deer,
turkies, geese, and one beaver: a large catfish too was caught in the evening. The ground near
the camp, was a low prarie, without timber, though just below is a grove of cottonwood.

Friday, September 7. The morning was very cold and the wind southeast. At five and a half miles,
we reached and encamped at the foot of a round mountain, on the south, having passed two small
islands. This mountain, which is about three hundred feet at the base, forms a cone at the
top, resembling a dome at a distance, and seventy feet or more above the surrounding highlands.

Saturday, September 8. The wind still continued from the southeast, but moderately. At seven
miles we reached a house on the north side, called the Pawnee house, where a trader, named
Trudeau, wintered in the year 1796-7: behind this, hills, much higher than usual, appear to
the north, about eight miles off. Before reaching this house, we came by three small islands,
on the north side, and a small creek on the south; and after leaving it, reached another, at
the end of seventeen miles, on which we encamped, and called it Boat island: we here saw herds
of buffaloe, and some elk, deer, turkies, beaver, a squirrel, and a prairie dog. The party
on the north represent the country through which they passed, as poor, rugged, and hilly, with
the appearance of having been lately burnt by the Indians; the broken hills, indeed, approach
the river on both sides, though each is bordered by a strip of woodland near the water.

Sunday, September 9. We coasted along the island on which we had encamped, and then passed
three sand and willow islands, and a number of smaller sandbars. The river is shallow, and
joined by two small creeks from the north, and one from the south. In the plains, to the south,
are great numbers of buffaloe, in herds of nearly five hundred; all the copses of timber appear
to contain elk or deer. We encamped on a sandbar, on the southern shore, at the distance of
fourteen and a quarter miles.

September 10, Monday. The next day we made twenty miles. The morning was cloudy and dark, but
a light breeze from the southeast carried us past two small islands on the south, and one on
the north; till, at the distance of ten and a half miles, we reached an island, extending for
two miles in the middle of the river, covered with red cedar, from which it derives its name
of Cedar island. On both sides of the river are high dark-coloured bluffs. About a mile and
a half from the island, on the southern shore, the party on that side discovered a large and
very strong impregnated spring of water; and another, not so strongly impregnated, half a mile
up the hill. Three miles beyond Cedar island is a large island on the north, and a number of
sandbars. After which is another, about a mile in length, lying in the middle of the river,
and separated by a small channel, at its extremity, from another above it, on which we encamped.
These two islands are called Mud islands. The river is shallow during this day's course, and
is falling a little. The elk and buffaloe are in great abundance, but the deer have become scarce.

September 11, Tuesday. At six and a half miles we passed the upper extremity of an island on
the south; four miles beyond which is another on the same side of the river; and about a quarter
of a mile distant we visited a large village of the barking-squirrel. It was situated on a
gentle declivity, and covered a space of nine hundred and seventy yards long, and eight hundred
yards wide; we killed four of them. We then resumed our course, and during five and a half
miles passed two islands on the north, and then encamped at the distance of sixteen miles,
on the south side of the river, and just above a small run. The morning had been cloudy, but
in the afternoon it began raining, with a high northwest wind, which continued during the greater
part of the night. The country seen to-day consists of narrow strips of lowland, rising into
uneven grounds, which are succeeded, at the distance of three miles, by rich and level plains,
but without any timber. The river itself is wide, and crowded with sandbars. Elk, deer, squirrels,
a pelican, and a very large porcupine, were our game this day; some foxes too were seen, but
not caught.

In the morning we observed a man riding on horseback down towards the boat, and we were much
pleased to find that it was George Shannon, one of our party, for whose safety we had been
very uneasy. Our two horses having strayed from us on the 26th of August, he was sent to search
for them. After he had found them he attempted to rejoin us, but seeing some other tracks,
which must have been those of Indians, and which he mistook for our own, he concluded that
we were ahead, and had been for sixteen days following the bank of the river above us. During
the first four days he exhausted his bullets, and was then nearly starved, being obliged to
subsist, for twelve days, on a few grapes, and a rabbit which he killed by making use of a
hard piece of stick for a ball. One of his horses gave out, and was left behind; the other
he kept as a last resource for food. Despairing of overtaking us, he was returning down the
river, in hopes of meeting some other boat; and was on the point of killing his horse, when
he was so fortunate as to join us.

Wednesday, September 12. The day was dark and cloudy; the wind from the northwest. At a short
distance we reached an island in the middle of the river, which is covered with timber, a rare
object now. We with great difficulty were enabled to struggle through the sandbars, the water
being very rapid and shallow, so that we were several hours in making a mile. Several times
the boat wheeled on the bar, and the men were obliged to jump out and prevent her from upsetting;
at others, after making a way up one channel, the shoalness of the water forced us back to
seek the deep channel. We advanced only four miles in the whole day and encamped on the south.
Along both sides of the river are high grounds; on the southern side particularly, they form
dark bluffs, in which may be observed slate and coal intermixed. We saw also several villages
of barking-squirrels; great numbers of growse, and three foxes.

September 13, Thursday. We made twelve miles to-day through a number of sandbars, which make
it difficult to find the proper channel. The hills on each side are high, and separated from
the river by a narrow plain on its borders. On the north, these lowlands are covered in part
with timber, and great quantities of grapes, which are now ripe: on the south we found plenty
of plums, but they are not yet ripe; and near the dark bluffs, a run tainted with allum and
copperas; the southern side being more strongly impregnated with minerals than the northern.
Last night four beaver were caught in the traps; a porcupine was shot as it was upon a cottontree,
feeding on its leaves and branches. We encamped on the north side, opposite to a small willow
island. At night the musquitoes were very troublesome, though the weather was cold and rainy
and the wind from the northwest.

Friday, September 14. At two miles we reached a round island on the northern side; at about
five, a run on the south; two and a half miles further, a small creek; and at nine miles encamped
near the month of a creek, on the same side. The sandbars are very numerous, and render the
river wide and shallow, and obliged the crew to get into the water and drag the boat over the
bars several times. During the whole day we searched along the southern shore, and at some
distance into the interior, to find an ancient volcano which we heard at St. Charles was somewhere
in this neighbourhood; but we could not discern the slightest appearance of any thing volcanic.
In the course of their search the party shot a buck-goat and a hare. The hills, particularly
on the south, continue high, but the timber is confined to the islands and banks of the river.
We had occasion here to observe the rapid undermining of these hills by the Missouri: the first
attacks seem to be on the hills which overhang the river; as soon as the violence of the current
destroys the grass at the foot of them, the whole texture appears loosened, and the ground
dissolves and mixes with the water: the muddy mixture is then forced over the low-grounds,
which it covers sometimes to the depth of three inches, and gradually destroys the herbage;
after which it can offer no resistance to the water, and becomes at last covered with sand.

Saturday, September 15. We passed, at an early hour, the creek near our last night's encampment;
and at two miles distance reached the mouth of White river, coming in from the south. We ascended
a short distance, and sent a sergeant and another man to examine it higher up. This river has
a bed of about three hundred yards, though the water is confined to one hundred and fifty:
in the mouth is a sand island, and several sandbars. The current is regular and swift, with
sandbars projecting from the points. It differs very much from the Platte, and Quieurre, in
throwing out, comparatively, little sand, but its general character is like that of the Missouri.
This resemblance was confirmed by the sergeant, who ascended about twelve miles; at which distance
it was about the same width as near the mouth, and the course, which was generally west, had
been interrupted by islands and sandbars. The timber consisted chiefly of elm; they saw pine
burrs, and sticks of birch were seen floating down the river; they had also met with goats,
such as we have heretofore seen; great quantities of buffaloe, near to which were wolves, some
deer, and villages of barking squirrels. At the confluence of White river with the Missouri
is an excellent position for a town; the land rising by three gradual ascents, and the neighbourhood
furnishing more timber than is usual in this country. After passing high dark bluffs on both
sides, we reached the lower point of an island towards the south, at the distance of six miles.
The island bears an abundance of grapes, and is covered with red cedar: it also contains a
number of rabbits. At the end of this island, which is small, a narrow channel separates it
from a large sand island, which we passed, and encamped, eight miles on the north, under a
high point of land opposite a large creek to the south, on which we observe an unusual quantity
of timber. The wind was from the northwest this afternoon, and high, the weather cold, and
its dreariness increased by the howlings of a number of wolves around us.

September 16, Sunday. Early this morning, having reached a convenient spot on the south side,
and at one mile and a quarter distance, we encamped just above a small creek, which we called
Corvus, having killed an animal of that genus near it. Finding that we could not proceed over
the sandbars, as fast as we desired, while the boat was so heavily loaded, we concluded not
to send back, as we originally intended, our third periogue, but to detain the soldiers until
spring, and in the mean time lighten the boat by loading the periogue: this operation, added
to that of drying all our wet articles, detained us during the day. Our camp is in a beautiful
plain, with timber thinly scattered for three quarters of a mile, and consisting chiefly of
elm, cottonwood, some ash of an indifferent quality, and a considerable quantity of a small
species of white oak: this tree seldom rises higher than thirty feet, and branches very much;
the bark is rough, thick and of a light colour; the leaves small, deeply indented, and of a
pale green; the cup which contains the acorn is fringed on the edges, and embraces it about
one half: the acorn itself, which grows in great profusion, is of an excellent flavour, and
has none of the roughness which most other acorns possess; they are now falling, and have probably
attracted the number of deer which we saw on this place, as all the animals we have seen are
fond of that food. The ground having been recently burnt by the Indians, is covered with young
green grass, and in the neighbourhood are great quantities of fine plums. We killed a few deer
for the sake of their skins, which we wanted to cover the periogues, the meat being too poor
for food: the cold season coming on, a flannel shirt was given to each man, and fresh powder
to those who had exhausted their supply.

Monday, September 16. Whilst some of the party were engaged in the same way as yesterday, others
were employed in examining the surrounding country. About a quarter of a mile behind our camp,
and at an elevation of twenty feet above it, a plain extends nearly three miles parallel to
the river, and about a mile back to the hills, towards which it gradually ascends. Here we
saw a grove of plum-trees loaded with fruit, now ripe, and differing in nothing from those
of the Atlantic states, except that the tree is smaller and more thickly set. The ground of
the plain is occupied by the burrows of multitudes of barking squirrels, who entice hither
the wolves of a small kind, hawks, and polecats, all of which animals we saw, and presumed
that they fed on the squirrel. This plain is intersected nearly in its whole extent by deep
ravines and steep irregular rising grounds from one to two hundred feet. On ascending the range
of hills which border the plain, we saw a second high level plain stretching to the south as
far as the eye could reach. To the westward, a high range of hills about twenty miles distant
runs nearly north and south, but not to any great extent, as their rise and termination is
embraced by one view, and they seemed covered with a verdure similar to that of the plains.
The same view extended over the irregular hills which border the northern side of the Missouri;
all around the country had been recently burnt, and a young green grass about four inches high
covered the ground, which was enlivened by herds of antelopes and buffaloe; the last of which
were in such multitudes, that we cannot exaggerate in saying that at a single glance we saw
three thousand of them before us.

Tuesday, September 18. Having everything in readiness we proceeded, with the boat much lightened,
but the wind being from the N.W. we made but little way. At one mile we reached an island in
the middle of the river, nearly a mile in length, and covered with red cedar; at its extremity
a small creek comes in from the north; we then met some sandbars, and the wind being very high
and ahead, we encamped on the south, having made only seven miles. In addition to the common
deer, which were in great abundance, we saw goats, elk, buffaloe, the black tailed deer; the
large wolves too are very numerous, and have long hair with coarse fur, and are of a light
colour. A small species of wolf about the size of a gray fox was also killed, and proved to
be the animal which we had hitherto mistaken for a fox: there are also many porcupines, rabbits,
and barking squirrels in the neighbourhood.

September 19. We this day enjoyed a cool clear morning, and a wind from the southeast. We reached
at three miles a bluff on the south, and four miles farther, the lower point of Prospect island,
about two and a half miles in length; opposite to this are high bluffs, about eighty feet above
the water, beyond which are beautiful plains gradually rising as they recede from the river:
these are watered by three streams which empty near each other; the first is about thirty-five
yards wide, the ground on its sides high and rich, with some timber; the second about twelve
yards wide, but with less timber; the third is nearly of the same size, and contains more water,
but it scatters its waters over the large timbered plain, and empties itself into the river
at three places. These rivers are called by the French Les trois rivieres des Sioux, the three
Sioux rivers; and as the Sioux generally cross the Missouri at this place, it is called the
Sioux pass of the three rivers. These streams have the same right of asylum, though in a less
degree than Pipestone creek already mentioned.

Two miles from the island we passed a creek fifteen yards wide; eight miles further, another
twenty yards wide; three miles beyond which, is a third of eighteen yards width, all on the
south side: the second which passes through a high plain we called Elm creek; to the third
we gave the name of Night creek, having reached it late at night. About a mile beyond this
is a small island on the north side of the river, and is called Lower island, as it is situated
at the commencement of what is known by the name of the Grand Detour, or Great Bend of the
Missouri. Opposite is a creek on the south about ten yards wide, which waters a plain where
there are great numbers of the prickley pear, which name we gave to the creek. We encamped
on the south, opposite the upper extremity of the island, having made an excellent day's sail
of twenty six and a quarter miles. Our game this day consisted chiefly of deer, of these four
were black tails, one a buck with two main prongs of horns on each side and forked equally.
Large herds of buffaloe, elk and goats, were also seen.

Thursday, September 20. Finding we had reached the Big Bend, we despatched two men with our
only horse across the neck, to hunt there and wait our arrival at the first creek beyond it.
We then set out with fair weather and the wind from S.E. to make the circuit of the bend. Near
the lower island the sandbars are numerous, and the river shallow. At nine and a half miles
is a sand island, on the southern side. About ten miles beyond it is a small island on the
south, opposite to a small creek on the north. This island, which is near the N.W. extremity
of the bend, is called Solitary island. At about eleven miles further, we encamped on a sandbar,
having made twenty-seven and a half miles. Captain Clarke, who early this morning had crossed
the neck of the bend, joined us in the evening. At the narrowest part, the gorge is composed
of high and irregular hills of about one hundred and eighty or one hundred and ninety feet
in elevation; from this descends an unbroken plain over the whole of the bend, and the country
is separated from it by this ridge. Great numbers of buffaloe, elk, and goats are wandering
over these plains, accompanied by grouse and larks. Captain Clarke saw a hare also, on the
Great Bend. Of the goats killed to-day, one is a female differing from the male in being smaller
in size; its horns too are smaller and straighter, having one short prong, and no black about
the neck: none of these goats have any beard, but are delicately formed, and very beautiful.

Friday, September 21. Between one and two o'clock the serjeant on guard alarmed us, by crying
that the sandbar on which we lay was sinking; we jumped up, and found that both above and below
our camp the sand was undermined and falling in very fast: we had scarcely got into the boats
and pushed off, when the bank under which they had been lying, fell in, and would certainly
have sunk the two periogues if they had remained there. By the time we reached the opposite
shore the ground of our encampment sunk also. We formed a second camp for the rest of the night;
and at daylight proceeded on to the gorge or throat of the Great Bend, where we breakfasted.
A man, whom we had despatched to step off the distance across the bend, made it two thousand
yards: the circuit is thirty miles. During the whole course, the land of the bend is low, with
occasional bluffs; that on the opposite side, high prairie ground, and long ridges of dark
bluffs. After breakfast, we passed through a high prairie on the north side, and a rich cedar
lowland and cedar bluff on the south, till we reached a willow island below the mouth of a
small creek. This creek, called Tyler's river, is about thirty-five yards wide, comes in on
the south, and is at the distance of six miles from the neck of the Great Bend. Here we found
a deer, and the skin of a white wolf, left us by our hunters ahead: large quantities of different
kinds of plover and brants are in this neighbourhood, and seen collecting and moving towards
the south; the catfish are small, and not in such plenty as we had found them below this place.
We passed several sandbars, which make the river very shallow and about a mile in width, and
encamped on the south, at the distance of eleven and a half miles. On each side the shore is
lined with hard rough gulleystones, rolled from the hills and small brooks. The most common
timber is the cedar, though, in the prairies, there are great quantities of the prickly pear.
At the distance of eleven and a half miles, we encamped on the north at the lower point of
an ancient island, which has since been connected with the main land by the filling up of the
northern channel, and is now covered with cottonwood. We here saw some tracks of Indians, but
they appeared three or four weeks old. This day was warm.

September 22. A thick fog detained us until seven o'clock; our course was through inclined
prairies on each side of the river, crowded with buffaloe. We halted at a point on the north
side, near a high bluff on the south, and took a meridian altitude, which gave us the latitude
of 44° 11' 33-3/10". On renewing our course, we reached first a small island on the south,
at the distance of four and a half miles, immediately above which is another island opposite
to a creek fifteen yards wide. This creek, and the two islands, one of which is half a mile
long, and the second three miles, are called the Three Sisters: a beautiful plain extending
on both sides of the river. This is followed by an island on the north, called Cedar island,
about one mile and a half in length and the same distance in breadth, and deriving its name
from the quality of the timber. On the south side of this island, is a fort and a large trading
house, built by a Mr. Loisel, who wintered here during the last year, in order to trade with
the Sioux, the remains of whose camps are in great numbers about this place. The establishment
is sixty or seventy feet square, built with red cedar and picketted in with the same materials.
The hunters who had been sent ahead joined us here. They mention that the hills are washed
in gullies, in passing over which, some mineral substances had rotted and destroyed their moccasins;
they had killed two deer and a beaver. At sixteen miles distance we came to on the north side
at the mouth of a small creek. The large stones which we saw yesterday on the shores are now
some distance in the river, and render the navigation dangerous. The musquitoes are still numerous
in the low grounds.

Sunday, September 23. We passed, with a light breeze from the southeast, a small island on
the north, called Goat island; above which is a small creek, called by the party Smoke creek,
as we observed a great smoke to the southwest on approaching it. At ten miles we came to the
lower point of a large island, having passed two small willow islands with sandbars projecting
from them. This island, which we called Elk island, is about two and a half miles long, and
three quarters of a mile wide, situated near the south, and covered with cottonwood, the red
currant, and grapes. The river is here almost straight for a considerable distance, wide and
shallow, with many sandbars. A small creek on the north, about sixteen yards wide, we called
Reuben's creek; as Reuben Fields, one of our men, was the first of the party who reached it.
At a short distance above this we encamped for the night, having made twenty miles. The country,
generally, consists of low, rich, timbered ground on the north, and high barren lands on the
south: on both sides great numbers of buffaloe are feeding. In the evening three boys of the
Sioux nation swam across the river, and informed us that two parties of Sioux were encamped
on the next river, one consisting of eighty, and the second of sixty lodges, at some distance
above. After treating them kindly we sent them back with a present of two carrots of tobacco
to their chiefs, whom we invited to a conference in the morning.

Monday, September 24. The wind was from the east, and the day fair; we soon passed a handsome
prairie on the north side, covered with ripe plums, and the mouth of a creek on the south,
called Highwater creek, a little above our encampment. At about five miles we reached an island
two and a half miles in length, and situated near the south. Here we were joined by one of
our hunters, who procured four elk, but whilst he was in pursuit of the game the Indians had
stolen his horse. We left the island, and soon overtook five Indians on the shore: we anchored
and told them from the boat we were friends and wished to continue so, but were not afraid
of any Indians; that some of their young men had stolen the horse which their great father
had sent for their great chief, and that we could not treat with them until he was restored.
They said that they knew nothing of the horse, but if he had been taken he should be given
up. We went on, and at eleven and a half miles, passed an island on the north, which we called
Good-humoured island; it is about one and a half miles long, and abounds in elk. At thirteen
and a half miles, we anchored one hundred yards off the mouth of a river on the south side,
where we were joined by both the periogues and encamped; two thirds of the party remained on
board, and the rest went as a guard on shore with the cooks and one periogue; we have seen
along the sides of the hills on the north a great deal of stone; besides the elk, we also observed
a hare; the five Indians whom we had seen followed us, and slept with the guard on shore. Finding
one of them was a chief we smoked with him, and made him a present of tobacco. This river is
about seventy yards wide, and has a considerable current. As the tribe of the Sioux which inhabit
it are called Teton, we gave it the name of Teton river.

                                CHAP. IV. The morning was fine, and the wind continued from the
southeast. We raised a flagstaff and an awning, under which we assembled
at twelve o'clock, with all the party parading under arms.

Wednesday, September 26. We eat and smoked for an hour, when it became dark: every thing was
then cleared away for the dance, a large fire being made in the centre of the house, giving
at once light and warmth to the ballroom. The orchestra was composed of about ten men, who
played on a sort of tambourin, formed of skin stretched across a hoop; and made a jingling
noise with a long stick to which the hoofs of deer and goats were hung; the third instrument
was a small skin bag with pebbles in it: these, with five or six young men for the vocal part,
made up the band. They have no step, but shuffle along the ground; nor does the music appear
to be any thing more than a confusion of noises, distinguished only by hard or gentle blows
upon the buffaloe skin: the song is perfectly extemporaneous. In the pauses of the dance, any
man of the company comes forward and recites, in a sort of low guttural tone, some little story
or incident, which is either martial or ludicrous; or, as was the case this evening, voluptuous
and indecent; this is taken up by the orchestra and the dancers, who repeat it in a higher
strain and dance to it. Sometimes they alternate; the orchestra first performing, and when
it ceases, the women raise their voices and make a music more agreeable, that is, less intolerable
than that of the musicians. The dances of the men, which are always separate from those of
the women, are conducted very nearly in the same way, except that the men jump up and down
instead of shuffling; and in the war dances the recitations are all of a military cast. The
harmony of the entertainment had nearly been disturbed by one of the musicians, who thinking
he had not received a due share of the tobacco we had distributed during the evening, put himself
into a passion, broke one of the drums, threw two of them into the fire, and left the band.
They were taken out of the fire: a buffaloe robe held in one hand and beaten with the other,
by several of the company, supplied the place of the lost drum or tambourin, and no notice
was taken of the offensive conduct of the man. We staid till twelve o'clock at night, when
we informed the chiefs that they must be fatigued with all these attempts to amuse us, and
retired accompanied by four chiefs, two of whom spent the night with us on board.

While on shore we saw twenty-five squaws, and about the same number of children, who had been
taken prisoners two weeks ago, in a battle with their countrymen the Mahas. In this engagement
the Sioux destroyed forty lodges, killed seventy-five men, of which we saw many of the scalps,
and took these prisoners; their appearance is wretched and dejected; the women too seem low
in stature, coarse and ugly; though their present condition may diminish their beauty. We gave
them a variety of small articles, such as awls and needles, and interceded for them with the
chiefs, to whom we recommended to follow the advice of their great father, to restore the prisoners
and live in peace with the Mahas, which they promised to do. Their moccasins are like those
of the men, as are also the leggings, which do not however reach beyond the knee, where it
is met by a long loose shift of skin which reaches nearly to the ancles: this is fastened over
the shoulders by a string and has no sleeves, but a few pieces of the skin hang a short distance
down the arm. Sometimes a girdle fastens this skin round the waist, and over all is thrown
a robe like that worn by the men. They seem fond of dress. Their lodges are very neatly constructed,
in the same form as those of the Yanktons; they consist of about one hundred cabins, made of
white buffaloe hide dressed, with a larger one in the centre for holding councils and dances.
They are built round with poles about fifteen or twenty feet high, covered with white skins;
these lodges may be taken to pieces, packed up, and carried with the nation wherever they go,
by dogs which bear great burdens. The women are chiefly employed in dressing buffaloe skins:
they seem perfectly well disposed, but are addicted to stealing any thing which they can take
without being observed. This nation, although it makes so many ravages among its neighbours,
is badly supplied with guns. The water which they carry with them is contained chiefly in the
paunches of deer and other animals, and they make use of wooden bowls. Some had their heads
shaved, which we found was a species of mourning for relations. Another usage, on these occasions,
is to run arrows through the flesh both above and below the elbow.

Thursday September 27. We rose early, and the two chiefs took off, as a matter of course and
according to their custom, the blanket on which they had slept. To this we added a peck of
corn as a present to each. Captain Lewis and the chiefs went on shore to see a part of the
nation that was expected, but did not come. He returned at two o'clock, with four of the chiefs
and a warrior of distinction, called Wadrapa, (or on his guard); they examined the boat and
admired whatever was strange, during half an hour, when they left it with great reluctance.
Captain Clarke accompanied them to the lodge of the grand chief, who invited them to a dance,
where, being joined by captain Lewis, they remained till a late hour. The dance was very similar
to that of yesterday. About twelve we left them, taking the second chief and one principal
warrior on board: as we came near the boat the man who steered the periogue, by mistake, brought
her broadside against the boat's cable, and broke it. We called up all hands to their oars;
but our noise alarmed the two Indians: they called out to their companions, and immediately
the whole camp crowded to the shore; but after half an hour they returned, leaving about sixty
men near us. The alarm given by the chiefs was said to be that the Mahas had attacked us, and
that they were desirous of assisting us to repel it; but we suspected that they were afraid
we meant to set sail, and intended to prevent us from doing so; for in the night the Maha prisoners
had told one of our men, who understood the language, that we were to be stopped. We therefore,
without giving any indication of our suspicion, prepared every thing for an attack, as the
loss of our anchor obliged to come to near a falling bank, very unfavourable for defence. We
were not mistaken in these opinions; for when in the morning,

Friday, September 28, after dragging unsuccessfully for the anchor, we wished to set sail,
it was with great difficulty that we could make the chiefs leave the boat. At length we got
rid of all except the great chief; when just as we were setting out, several of the chief's
soldiers sat on the rope which held the boat to the shore. Irritated at this we got every thing
ready to fire on them if they persisted, but the great chief said that these were his soldiers
and only wanted some tobacco. A little farther on we were joined by the son of the chief, who
came on board to see his father. On his return we sent a speech to the nation, explaining what
we had done, and advising them to peace; but if they persisted in their attempts to stop us,
we were willing and able to defend ourselves. After making six miles, during which we passed
a willow island on the south and one sandbar, we encamped on another in the middle of the river.
The country on the south-side was a low prairie, that on the north highland.

September 29. We set out early, but were again impeded by sandbars, which made the river shallow;
the weather was however fair; the land on the north side low and covered with timber contrasted
with the bluffs to the south. At nine o'clock we saw the second chief and two women and three
men on shore, who wished us to take two women offered by the second chief to make friends,
which was refused; he then requested us to take them to the other band of their nation, who
were on the river not far from us: this we declined; but in spite of our wishes they followed
us along shore. The chief asked us to give them some tobacco; this we did, and gave more as
a present for that part of the nation which we did not see. At seven and a half miles we came
to a small creek on the southern side, where we saw great numbers of elk, and which we called
Notimber creek from its bare appearance. Above the mouth of this stream, a Ricara band of Pawnees
had a village five years ago: but there are no remains of it except the mound which encircled
the town. Here the second chief went on shore. We then proceeded, and at the distance of eleven
miles encamped on the lower part of a willow island, in the middle of the river, being obliged
to substitute large stones in the place of the anchor which we lost.

September 30. The wind was this morning very high from the southeast, so that we were obliged
to proceed under a double-reefed mainsail, through the rain. The country presented a large
low prairie covered with timber on the north side; on the south, we first had high barren hills,
but after some miles it became of the same character as that on the opposite side. We had not
gone far when an Indian ran after us, and begged to be carried on board as far as the Ricaras,
which we refused: soon after, we discovered on the hills at a distance, a great number of Indians,
who came towards the river and encamped ahead of us. We stopped at a sandbar, at about eleven
miles, and after breakfasting proceeded on a short distance to their camp, which consisted
of about four hundred souls. We anchored one hundred yards from the shore, and discovering
that they were Tetons belonging to the band which we had just left: we told them that we took
them by the hand, and would make each chief a present of tobacco; that we had been badly treated
by some of their band, and that having waited for them two days below, we could not stop here,
but referred them to Mr. Durion for our talk and an explanation of our views: they then apologized
for what had past, assured us that they were friendly, and very desirous that we should land
and eat with them: this we refused, but sent the periogue on shore with the tobacco, which
was delivered to one of the soldiers of the chief, whom we had on board. Several of them now
ran along the shore after us, but the chief threw them a twist of tobacco, and told them to
go back and open their ears to our counsels; on which they immediately returned to their lodges.
We then proceeded past a continuation of the low prairie on the north, where we had large quantities
of grapes, and on the south saw a small creek and an island. Six miles above this, two Indians
came to the bank, looked at us about half an hour, and then went without speaking over the
hills to the southwest. After some time, the wind rose still higher, and the boat struck a
log, turned, and was very near taking in water. The chief became so much terrified at the danger,
that he hid himself in the boat, and as soon as we landed got his gun and told us that he wanted
to return, that we would now see no more Tetons, and that we might proceed unmolested: we repeated
the advice we had already given, presented him with a blanket, a knife, some tobacco, and after
smoking with him he set out. We then continued to a sandbar on the north side, where we encamped,
having come twenty and a half miles. In the course of the day we saw a number of sandbars which
impede the navigation. The only animal which we observed was the white gull, then in great
abundance.

October 1st, 1804. The weather was very cold and the wind high from the southeast during the
night, and continued so this morning. At three miles distance, we had passed a large island
in the middle of the river, opposite to the lower end of which the Ricaras once had a village
on the south side of the river: there are, however, no remnants of it now, except a circular
wall three or four feet in height, which encompassed the town. Two miles beyond this island
is a river coming in from the southwest, about four hundred yards wide; the current gentle,
and discharging not much water, and very little sand: it takes its rise in the second range
of the Cote Noire or Black mountains, and its general course is nearly east; this river has
been occasionally called Dog river, under a mistaken opinion that its French name was Chien,
but its true appellation is Chayenne, and it derives this title from the Chayenne Indians:
their history is the short and melancholy relation of the calamities of almost all the Indians.
They were a numerous people and lived on the Chayenne, a branch of the Red river of Lake Winnipeg.
The invasion of the Sioux drove them westward; in their progress they halted on the southern
side of the Missouri below the Warreconne, where their ancient fortifications still exist;
but the same impulse again drove them to the heads of the Chayenne, where they now rove, and
occasionally visit the Ricaras. They are now reduced, but still number three hundred men.

Although the river did not seem to throw out much sand, yet near and above its mouth we find
a great many sandbars difficult to pass. On both sides of the Missouri, near the Chayenne,
are rich thinly timbered lowlands, behind which are bare hills. As we proceeded, we found that
the sandbars made the river so shallow, and the wind was so high, that we could scarcely find
the channel, and at one place were forced to drag the boat over a sandbar, the Missouri being
very wide and falling a little. At seven and a half miles we came to at a point, and remained
three hours, during which time the wind abated: we then passed within four miles two creeks
on the south, one of which we called Centinel creek, and the other Lookout creek. This part
of the river has but little timber; the hills are not so high as we have hitherto seen, and
the number of sandbars extends the river to more than a mile in breadth. We continued about
four and a half miles further, to a sandbar in the middle of the river, where we spent the
night, our progress being sixteen miles. On the opposite shore, we saw a house among the willows
and a boy to whom we called, and brought him on board. He proved to be a young Frenchman in
the employ of a Mr. Valle a trader, who is now here pursuing his commerce with the Sioux.

Tuesday, October 2. There had been a violent wind from S.E. during the night, which having
moderated we set sail with Mr. Valle, who visited us this morning and accompanied us for two
miles. He is one of three French traders who have halted here, expecting the Sioux who are
coming down from the Ricaras, where they now are, for the purposes of traffic. Mr. Valle tells
us that he passed the last winter three hundred leagues up the Chayenne under the Black mountains.
That river he represents as very rapid, liable to sudden swells, the bed and shores formed
of course gravel, and difficult of ascent even for canoes. One hundred leagues from its mouth
it divides into two branches, one coming from the south, the other at forty leagues from the
junction enters the Black mountains. The land which it waters from the Missouri to the Black
mountains, resembles the country on the Missouri, except that the former has even less timber,
and of that the greater proportion is cedar. The Chayennes reside chiefly on the heads of the
river, and steal horses from the Spanish settlement, a plundering excursion which they perform
in a month's time. The Black mountains he observes are very high, covered with great quantities
of pine, and in some parts the snow remains during the summer.

At two and a half miles we had passed a willow island on the south, on the north side of the
river were dark bluffs, and on the south low rich prairies. We took a meridian altitude on
our arrival at the upper end of the isthmus of the bend, which we called the Lookout bend,
and found the latitude to be 44° 19' 36". This bend is nearly twenty miles round, and not more
than two miles across.

In the afternoon we heard a shot fired, and not long after observed some Indians on a hill:
one of them came to the shore and wished us to land, as there were twenty lodges of Yanktons
or Boisbrule there; we declined doing so, telling him that we had already seen his chiefs,
and that they might learn from Mr. Durion the nature of the talk we had delivered to them.
At nine miles we came to the lower point of a long island on the north, the banks of the south
side of the river being high, those of the north forming a low rich prairie. We coasted along
this island, which we called Caution island, and after passing a small creek on the south encamped
on a sandbar in the middle of the river, having made twelve miles. The wind changed to the
northwest, and became very high and cold. The current of the river is less rapid, and the water
though of the same colour contains less sediment than below the Chayenne, but its width continues
the same. We were not able to hunt to-day; for as there are so many Indians in the neighbourhood,
we were in constant expectation of being attacked, and were therefore forced to keep the party
together and be on our guard.

Wednesday, October 3. The wind continued so high from the northwest, that we could not set
out till after seven: we then proceeded till twelve o'clock, and landed on a bar towards the
south, where we examined the periogues, and the forecastle of the boat, and found that the
mice had cut several bags of corn, and spoiled some of our clothes: about one o'clock an Indian
came running to the shore with a turkey on his back: several others soon joined him, but we
had no intercourse with them. We then went on for three miles, but the ascent soon became so
obstructed by sandbars and shoal water, that after attempting in vain several channels, we
determined to rest for the night under some high bluffs on the south, and send out to examine
the best channel. We had made eight miles along high bluffs on each side. The birds we saw
were the white gulls and the brant which were flying to the southward in large flocks.

Thursday, 4th. On examination we found that there was no outlet practicable for us in this
channel, and that we must retread our steps. We therefore returned three miles, and attempted
another channel in which we were more fortunate. The Indians were in small numbers on the shore,
and seemed willing had they been more numerous to molest us. They called to desire that we
would land, and one of them gave three yells and fired a ball ahead of the boat: we however
took no notice of it, but landed on the south to breakfast. One of these Indians swam across
and begged for some powder, we gave him a piece of tobacco only. At eight and a half miles
we had passed an island in the middle of the river, which we called Goodhope island. At one
and a half mile we reached a creek on the south side about twelve yards wide, to which we gave
the name of Teal creek. A little above this is an island on the north side of the current,
about one and a half mile in length and three quarters of a mile in breadth. In the centre
of this island is an old village of the Ricaras, called Lahoocat; it was surrounded by a circular
wall, containing seventeen lodges. The Ricaras are known to have lived therein 1797, and the
village seems to have been deserted about five years since; it does not contain much timber.
We encamped on a sandbar making out from the upper end of this island; our journey to-day being
twelve miles.

Friday, October 5. The weather was very cold: yesterday evening and this morning there was
a white frost. We sailed along the highlands on the north side, passing a small creek on the
south, between three and four miles. At seven o'clock we heard some yells and saw three Indians
of the Teton band, who asked us to come on shore and begged for some tobacco, to all which
we gave the same answer as hitherto. At eight miles we reached a small creek on the north.
At fourteen we passed an island on the south, covered with wild rye, and at the head a large
creek comes in from the south, which we named Whitebrant creek, from seeing several white brants
among flocks of dark-coloured ones. At the distance of twenty miles we came to on a sandbar
towards the north side of the river, with a willow island opposite; the hills or bluffs come
to the banks of the river on both sides, but are not so high as they are below: the river itself
however continues of the same width, and the sandbars are quite as numerous. The soil of the
banks is dark coloured, and many of the bluffs have the appearance of being on fire. Our game
this day was a deer, a prairie wolf, and some goats out of a flock that was swimming across
the river.

Saturday, October 6. The morning was still cold, the wind being from the north. At eight miles
we came to a willow island on the north, opposite a point of timber, where there are many large
stones near the middle of the river, which seem to have been washed from the hills and high
plains on both sides, or driven from a distance down the stream. At twelve miles we halted
for dinner at a village which we suppose to have belonged to the Ricaras; it is situated in
a low plain on the river, and consists of about eighty lodges, of an octagon form, neatly covered
with earth, placed as close to each other as possible, and picketed round. The skin canoes,
mats, buckets, and articles of furniture found in the lodges, induce us to suppose that it
had been left in the spring. We found three different sorts of squashes growing in the village;
we also killed an elk near it, and saw two wolves. On leaving the village the river became
shallow, and after searching a long time for the main channel, which was concealed among sandbars,
we at last dragged the boat over one of them rather than go back three miles for the deepest
channel. At fourteen and a half miles we stopped for the night on a sandbar, opposite a creek
on the north, called Otter creek, twenty-two yards in width, and containing more water than
is common for creeks of that size. The sides of the river during the day are variegated with
high bluffs and low timbered grounds on the banks: the river is very much obstructed by sandbars.
We saw geese, swan, brants and ducks of different kinds on the sandbars, and on shore numbers
of the prairie hen; the magpie too is very common, but the gulls and plover, which we saw in
such numbers below, are now quite rare.

Sunday, October 7. There was frost again last evening, and this morning was cloudy and attended
with rain. At two miles we came to the mouth of a river; called by the Ricaras, Sawawkawna,
or Pork river; the party who examined it for about three miles up, say that its current is
gentle, and that it does not seem to throw out much sand. Its sources are in the first range
of the Black mountains, and though it has now only water of twenty yards width, yet when full
it occupies ninety. Just below the mouth is another village or wintering camp of the Ricaras,
composed of about sixty lodges, built in the same form as those passed yesterday, with willow
and straw mats, baskets and buffaloe-skin canoes remaining entire in the camp. We proceeded
under a gentle breeze from the southwest: at ten o'clock we saw two Indians on the north side,
who told us they were a part of the lodge of Tartongawaka, or Buffaloe Medicine, the Teton
chief whom we had seen on the twenty-fifth, that they were on the way to the Ricaras, and begged
us for something to eat, which we of course gave them. At seven and a half miles is a willow
island on the north, and another on the same side five miles beyond it, in the middle of the
river between highlands on both sides. At eighteen and a half miles is an island called Grouse
island, on which are the walls of an old village; the island has no timber, but is covered
with grass and wild rye, and owes its name to the number of grouse that frequent it. We then
went on till our journey for the day was twenty-two miles: the country presented the same appearance
as usual. In the low timbered ground near the mouth of the Sawawkawna, we saw the tracks of
large white bear, and on Grouse island killed a female blaireau, and a deer of the black-tailed
species, the largest we have ever seen.

Monday, October 8. We proceeded early with a cool northwest wind, and at two and a half miles
above Grouse island, reached the mouth of a creek on the south, then a small willow island,
which divides the current equally; and at four and a half miles came to a river on the southern
side where we halted. This river, which our meridian altitude fixes at 45° 39' 5" north latitude,
is called by the Ricaras Wetawhoo; it rises in the Black mountains, and its bed which flows
at the mouth over a low soft slate stone, is one hundred and twenty yards wide, but the water
is now confined within twenty yards, and is not very rapid, discharging mud with a small proportion
of sand: here as in every bend of the river, we again observe the red berries resembling currants,
which we mentioned before. Two miles above the Wetawhoo, and on the same side, is a small river
called Maropa by the Indians; it is twenty yards in width, but so dammed up by mud that the
stream creeps through a channel of not more than an inch in diameter, and discharges no sand.
One mile further we reached an island close to the southern shore, from which it is separated
by a deep channel of sixty yards. About half way a number of Ricara Indians came out to see
us. We stopped and took a Frenchman on board, who accompanied us past the island to our camp
on the north side of the river, which is at the distance of twelve miles from that of yesterday.
Captain Lewis then returned with four of the party to see the village; it is situated in the
centre of the island, near the southern shore, under the foot of some high, bald, uneven hills,
and contains about sixty lodges. The island itself is three miles long, and covered with fields
in which the Indians raise corn, beans, and potatoes. Several Frenchmen living among these
Indians as interpreters, or traders, came back with captain Lewis, and particularly a Mr. Gravelines,
a man who has acquired the language. On setting out we had a low prairie covered with timber
on the north, and on the south highlands, but at the mouth of the Wetawhoo the southern country
changes, and a low timbered plain extends along the south, while the north has a ridge of barren
hills during the rest of the day's course.

Tuesday, 9th. The wind was so cold and high last night and during all the day, that we could
not assemble the Indians in council; but some of the party went to the village. We received
the visits of the three principal chiefs with many others, to whom we gave some tobacco, and
told them that we would speak to them to-morrow. The names of these chiefs were first, Kakawissassa
or Lighting Crow; second chief Pocasse or Hay; third chief Piaheto or Eagle's Feather. Notwithstanding
the high waves, two or three squaws rowed to us in little canoes made of a single buffaloe
skin, stretched over a frame of boughs interwoven like a basket, and with the most perfect
composure. Opposite our camp is a small creek on the south, which we distinguished by the name
of the chief Kakawissassa.

Wednesday, 10th. The council being over they retired to consult on their answer, and the next
morning,

Thursday, 11th, at eleven o'clock we again met in council at our camp. The grand chief made
a short speech of thanks for the advice we had given, and promised to follow it; adding that
the door was now open and no one dare shut it, and that we might depart whenever we pleased,
alluding to the treatment we had received from the Sioux: they also brought us some corn, beans,
and dried squashes, and in return we gave them a steel mill with which they were much pleased.
At one o'clock we left our camp with the grand chief and his nephew on board, and at about
two miles anchored below a creek on the south, separating the second and third village of the
Ricaras, which are about half a mile distant from each other. We visited both the villages,
and sat conversing with the chiefs for some time, during which they presented us with a bread
made of corn and beans, also corn and beans boiled, and a large rich bean which they take from
the mice of the prairie, who discover and collect it. These two villages are placed near each
other in a high smooth prairie; a fine situation, except that having no wood the inhabitants
are obliged to go for it across the river to a timbered lowland opposite to them. We told them
that we would speak to them in the morning at their villages separately.

Thursday, 12th. Accordingly after breakfast we went on shore to the house of the chief of the
second village named Lassel, where we found his chiefs and warriors. They made us a present
of about seven bushels of corn, a pair of leggings, a twist of their tobacco, and the seeds
of two different species of tobacco. The chief then delivered a speech expressive of his gratitude
for the presents and the good counsels which we had given him; his intention of visiting his
great father but for fear of the Sioux; and requested us to take one of the Ricara chiefs up
to the Mandans and negociate a peace between the two nations. To this we replied in a suitable
way, and then repaired to the third village. Here we were addressed by the chief in nearly
the same terms as before, and entertained with a present of ten bushels of corn, some beans,
dried pumpkins, and squashes. After we had answered and explained the magnitude and power of
the United States, the three chiefs came with us to the boat. We gave them some sugar, a little
salt, and a sunglass. Two of them then left us, and the chief of the third, by name Ahketahnasha
or Chief of the Town, accompanied us to the Mandans. At two o'clock we left the Indians, who
crowded to the shore to take leave of us, and after making seven and a half miles landed on
the north side, and had a clear, cool, pleasant evening.

The three villages which we have just left, are the residence of a nation called the Ricaras.
They were originally colonies of Pawnees, who established themselves on the Missouri, below
the Chayenne, where the traders still remember that twenty years ago they occupied a number
of villages. From that situation a part of the Ricaras emigrated to the neighbourhood of the
Mandans, with whom they were then in alliance. The rest of the nation continued near the Chayenne
till the year 1797, in the course of which, distressed by their wars with the Sioux, they joined
their countrymen near the Mandans. Soon after a new war arose between the Ricaras and the Mandans,
in consequence of which the former came down the river to their present position. In this migration
those who had first gone to the Mandans kept together, and now live in the two lower villages,
which may thence be considered as the Ricaras proper. The third village was composed of such
remnants of the villages as had survived the wars, and as these were nine in number a difference
of pronunciation and some difference of language may be observed between them and the Ricaras
proper, who do not understand all the words of these wanderers. The villages are within the
distance of four miles of each other, the two lower ones consisting of between one hundred
and fifty and two hundred men each, the third of three hundred. The Ricaras are tall and well
proportioned, the women handsome and lively, and as among other savages to them falls all the
drudgery of the field and the labours of procuring subsistence, except that of hunting: both
sexes are poor, but kind and generous, and although they receive with thankfulness what is
given to them, do not beg as the Sioux did, though this praise should be qualified by mentioning
that an axe was stolen last night from our cooks. The dress of the men is a simple pair of
moccasins, legings, and a cloth round the middle, over which a buffaloe robe is occasionally
thrown, with their hair, arms and ears decorated with different ornaments. The women wear moccasins,
legings, a long shirt made of goats' skins, generally white and fringed, which is tied round
the waist; to those they add, like the men, a buffaloe robe without the hair, in summer. These
women are handsomer than the Sioux; both of them are however, disposed to be amorous, and our
men found no difficulty in procuring companions for the night by means of the interpreters.
These interviews were chiefly clandestine, and were of course to be kept a secret from the
husband or relations. The point of honour indeed, is completely reversed among the Ricaras;
that the wife or the sister should submit to a stranger's embraces without the consent of her
husband or brother, is a cause of great disgrace and offence, especially as for many purposes
of civility or gratitude the husband and brother will themselves present to a stranger these
females, and be gratified by attentions to them. The Sioux had offered us squaws, but while
we remained there having declined, they followed us with offers of females for two days. The
Ricaras had been equally accommodating; we had equally withstood their temptation; but such
was their desire to oblige that two very handsome young squaws were sent on board this evening,
and persecuted us with civilities. The black man York participated largely in these favours;
for instead of inspiring any prejudice, his colour seemed to procure him additional advantages
from the Indians, who desired to preserve among them some memorial of this wonderful stranger.
Among other instances of attention, a Ricara invited him into his house and presenting his
wife to him, retired to the outside of the door: while there one of York's comrades who was
looking for him came to the door, but the gallant husband would permit no interruption before
a reasonable time had elapsed. They are very warm and compact.

They cultivate maize or Indian corn, beans, pumpkins, watermelons, squashes, and a species
of tobacco peculiar to themselves.

Their commerce is chiefly with the traders who supply them with goods in return for peltries,
which they procure not only by their own hunting, but in exchange for corn from their less
civilized neighbours. The object chiefly in demand seemed to be red paint, but they would give
any thing they had to spare for the most trifling article. One of the men to-day gave an Indian
a hook made out of a pin, and he gave him in return a pair of moccasins.

They express a disposition to keep at peace with all nations, but they are well armed with
fusils, and being much under the influence of the Sioux, who exchanged the goods which they
get from the British for Ricara corn, their minds are sometimes poisoned and they cannot be
always depended on. At the present moment they are at war with the Mandans. We are informed
by Mr. Gravelines, who had passed through that country, that the Yankton or Jacques river rises
about forty miles to the east or northeast of this place, the Chayenne branch of the Red river
about twenty miles further, passing the Sioux, and the St. Peter's about eighty.

Saturday, 13th. In the morning our visitors left us, except the brother of the chief who accompanies
us and one of the squaws. We passed at an early hour a camp of Sioux on the north bank, who
merely looked at us without saying a word, and from the character of the tribe we did not solicit
a conversation. At ten and a half miles we reached the mouth of a creek on the north, which
takes its rise from some ponds a short distance to the northeast: to this stream we gave the
name of Stoneidol creek, for after passing a willow and sand island just above its mouth, we
discovered that a few miles back from the Missouri there are two stones resembling human figures,
and a third like a dog; all which are objects of great veneration among the Ricaras. Their
history would adorn the metamorphoses of Ovid. Above this is a small creek four and a half
miles from Stoneidol creek, which is fifteen yards wide, comes in from the south, and received
from us the name of Pocasse or Hay creek, in honour of the chief of the second village. Above
the Ricara island, the Missouri becomes narrow and deeper, the sandbars being generally confined
to the points; the current too is much more gentle; the timber on the lowlands is also in much
greater quantities, though the high grounds are still naked. We proceeded on under a fine breeze
from the southeast, and after making eighteen miles encamped on the north near a timbered low
plain, after which we had some rain and the evening was cold. The hunters killed one deer only.

Sunday, 14th. We set out in the rain which continued during the day. At five miles we came
to a creek on the south, about fifteen yards wide, and named by us Piaheto or Eagle's Feather,
in honour of the third chief of the Ricaras. After dinner we stopped on a sandbar, and executed
the sentence of a court martial which inflicted corporal punishment on one of the soldiers.
This operation affected the Indian chief very sensibly, for he cried aloud during the punishment:
we explained the offence and the reasons of it. After this we continued with the wind from
the northeast, and at the distance of twelve miles, encamped in a cove of the southern bank.
Immediately opposite our camp on the north side are the ruins of an ancient fortification,
the greater part of which is washed into the river: nor could we distinguish more than that
the walls were eight or ten feet high. The evening is wet and disagreeable, and the river which
is somewhat wider than yesterday, continues to have an unusual quantity of timber. The country
was level on both sides in the morning, but afterwards we passed some black bluffs on the south.

Monday, 15th. We stopped at three miles on the north a little above a camp of Ricaras who are
hunting, where we were visited by about thirty Indians. They came over in their skin canoes,
bringing us meat, for which we returned them beads and fishhooks. About a mile higher we found
another encampment of Ricaras on the south, consisting of eight lodges: here we again ate and
exchanged a few presents. As we went we discerned numbers of other Indians on both sides of
the river; and at about nine miles we came to a creek on the south, where we saw many high
hills resembling a house with a slanting roof; and a little below the creek an old village
of the Sharha or Chayenne Indians. The morning had been cloudy, but the evening became pleasant,
the wind from the northeast, and at sunset we halted, after coming ten miles over several sandbars
and points, above a camp of ten Ricara lodges on the north side. We visited their camp, and
smoked and eat with several of them; they all appeared kind and pleased with our attentions,
and the fair sex received our men with more than hospitality. York was here again an object
of astonishment; the children would follow him constantly, and if he chanced to turn towards
them, run with great terror. The country of to-day is generally low and covered with timber
on both sides, though in the morning we passed some barren hills on the south.

Tuesday, 16th. At this camp the squaw who accompanied the chief left us; two others were very
anxious to go on with us. Just above our camp we passed a circular work or fort where the Sharha
or Chayennes formerly lived: and a short distance beyond, a creek which we called Chayenne
creek. At two miles is a willow island with a large sandbar on both sides above it, and a creek,
both on the south, which we called Sohaweh, the Ricara name for girl; and two miles above a
second creek, to which we gave the name of Chapawt, which means woman in the same language.
Three miles further is an island situated in a bend to the north, about a mile and a half long,
and covered with cottonwood. At the lower end of this island comes in a small creek from the
north, called Keetooshsahawna or Place of Beaver. At the upper extremity of the island a river
empties itself from the north: it is called Warreconne, or Elk Shed their Horns, and is about
thirty-five yards wide: the island itself is named Carp island by Evans, a former traveller.
As we proceeded there were great numbers of goats on the banks of the river, and we soon after
saw large flocks of them in the water: they had been gradually driven into the river by the
Indians who now lined the shore so as to prevent their escape, and were firing on them, while
sometimes boys went into the river and killed them with sticks: they seemed to be very successful,
for we counted fifty-eight which they had killed. We ourselves killed some, and then passing
the lodges to which these Indians belonged, encamped at the distance of half a mile on the
south, having made fourteen and a half miles. We were soon visited by numbers of these Ricaras,
who crossed the river hallooing and singing: two of them then returned for some goats' flesh
and buffaloe meat dried and fresh, with which they made a feast that lasted till late at night,
and caused much music and merriment.

Wednesday 17th. The weather was pleasant: we passed a low ground covered with small timber
on the south, and barren hills on the north which come close to the river; the wind from the
northwest then become so strong that we could not move after ten o'clock, until late in the
afternoon, when we were forced to use the towline, and we therefore made only six miles. We
all went out hunting and examining the country. The goats, of which we see large flocks coming
to the north bank of the river, spend the summer, says Mr. Gravelines, in the plains east of
the Missouri, and at the present season are returning to the Black mountains, where they subsist
on leaves and shrubbery during the winter, and resume their migrations in the spring. We also
saw buffaloe, elk, and deer, and a number of snakes; a beaver house too was seen, and we caught
a whippoorwill of a small and uncommon kind: the leaves are fast falling; the river wider than
usual and full of sandbars: and on the sides of the hills are large stones, and some rock of
a brownish colour in the southern bend below us. Our latitude by observation was 46° 23' 57".

Thursday 18. After three miles we reached the mouth of Le Boulet or Cannonball river: this
stream rises in the Black mountains, and falls into the Missouri on the south; its channel
is about one hundred and forty yards wide, though the water is now confined within forty, and
its name is derived from the numbers of perfectly round large stones on the shore and in the
bluffs just above. We here met with two Frenchmen in the employ of Mr. Gravelines, who had
been robbed by the Mandans of their traps, furs, and other articles, and were descending the
river in a periogue, but they turned back with us in expectation of obtaining redress through
our means. At eight miles is a creek on the north, about twenty-eight yards wide, rising in
the northeast, and called Chewah or Fish river; one mile above this is another creek on the
south: we encamped on a sandbar to the south, at the distance of thirteen miles, all of which
we had made with oars and poles. Great numbers of goats are crossing the river and directing
their course to the westward; we also saw a herd of buffaloe and of elk; a pelican too was
killed, and six fallow deer, having found, as the Ricaras informed us, that there are none
of the black-tail species as high up as this place.

Friday 19. We set sail with a fine morning, and a southeast wind, and at two and a half miles
passed a creek on the north side: at eleven and a half miles we came to a lake or large pond
on the same side, in which were some swans. On both banks of the Missouri are low grounds which
have much more timber than lower down the river: the hills are at one or two miles distance
from the banks, and the streams which rise in them are brackish, and the mineral salts appear
on the sides of the hills and edges of the runs. In walking along the shore we counted fifty-two
herds of buffaloe, and three of elk, at a single view. Besides these we also observed elk,
deer, pelicans, and wolves. After seventeen and a half miles we encamped on the north, opposite
to the uppermost of a number of round hills, forming a cone at the top, one being about ninety,
another sixty feet in height, and some of less elevation. Our chief tells us that the calumet
bird lives in the holes formed by the filtration of the water from the top of these hills through
the sides. Near to one of these moles, on a point of a hill ninety feet above the plain, are
the remains of an old village which is high, strong, and has been fortified; this our chief
tells us is the remains of one of the Mandan villages, and are the first ruins which we have
seen of that nation in ascending the Missouri: opposite to our camp is a deep bend to the south,
at the extremity of which is a pond.

Saturday 30. We proceeded early with a southeast wind, which continued high all day, and came
to a creek on the north at two miles distance, twenty yards wide. At eight miles we reached
the lower point of an island in the middle of the river, though there is no current on the
south. This island is covered with willows and extends about two miles, there being a small
creek coming in from the south at its lower extremity. After making twelve miles we encamped
on the south, at the upper part of a bluff containing stone-coal of an inferior quality; immediately
below this bluff and on the declivity of a hill, are the remains of a village covering six
or eight acres, formerly occupied by the Mandans, who, says our Ricara chief, once lived in
a number of villages on each side of the river, till the Sioux forced them forty miles higher;
whence after a few years residence, they moved to their present position. The country through,
which we passed has wider bottoms and more timber than those we have been accustomed to see,
the hills rising at a distance and by gradual ascents. We have seen great numbers of elk, deer,
goats, and buffaloe, and the usual attendants of these last, the wolves, who follow their movements
and feed upon those who die by accident, or who are too poor to keep pace with the herd; we
also wounded a white bear, and saw some fresh tracks of those animals which are twice as large
as the track of a man.

Sunday 21. Last night the weather was cold, the wind high from the northeast, and the rain
which fell froze on the ground. At daylight it began to snow, and continued till the afternoon,
when it remained cloudy and the ground was covered with snow. We however, set out early, and
just above our camp came to a creek on the south, called Chisshetaw, about thirty yards wide
and with a considerable quantity of water. Our Ricara chief tells us, that at some distance
up this river is situated a large rock which is held in great veneration, and visited by parties
who go to consult it as to their own or their nations' destinies, all of which they discern
in some sort of figures or paintings with which it is covered. About two miles off from the
mouth of the river the party on shore saw another of the objects of Ricara superstition: it
is a large oak tree, standing alone in the open prairie, and as it alone has withstood the
fire which has consumed every thing around, the Indians naturally ascribe to it extraordinary
powers. One of their ceremonies is to make a hole in the skin of their necks through which
a string is passed and the other end tied to the body of the tree; and after remaining in this
way for some time they think they become braver. At two miles a from our encampment we came
to the ruins of a second Mandan village, which was in existence at the same time with that
just mentioned. It is situated on the north at the foot of a hill in a beautiful and extensive
plain, which is now covered with herds of buffaloe: nearly opposite are remains of a third
village on the south of the Missouri; and there is another also about two miles further on
the north, a little off the river. At the distance of seven miles we encamped on the south,
and spent a cold night. We procured to-day a buffaloe and an otter only. The river is wide
and the sandbars numerous, and a low island near our encampment.

Monday 22. In the morning we passed an old Mandan village on the south, near our camp; at four
miles another on the same side. About seven o'clock we came to at a camp of eleven Sioux of
the Teton tribe, who are almost perfectly naked, having only a piece of skin or cloth round
the middle, though we are suffering from the cold. From their appearance, which is warlike,
and from their giving two different accounts of themselves, we believe that they are either
going to or returning from the Mandans, to which nations the Sioux frequently make excursions
to steal horses. As their conduct displeased as, we gave them nothing. At six we reached an
island about one mile in length, at the head of which is a Mandan village on the north in ruins,
and two miles beyond a bad sandbar. At eight miles are remains of another Mandan village on
the south; and at twelve miles encamped on the south. The hunters brought in a buffaloe bull,
and mentioned that of about three hundred which they had seen, there was not a single female.
The beaver is here in plenty, and the two Frenchmen who are returning with us catch several
every night.

These villages which are nine in number are scattered along each side of the river within a
space of twenty miles; almost all that remains of them is the wall which surrounded them, the
fallen heaps of earth which covered the houses, and occasionally human skulls and the teeth
and bones of men, and different animals, which are scattered on the surface of the ground.

Tuesday 23. The weather was cloudy and we had some snow; we soon arrived at five lodges where
the two Frenchmen had been robbed, but the Indians had left it lately as we found the fires
still burning. The country consists as usual of timbered low grounds, with grapes, rushes,
and great quantities of a small red acid fruit, known among the Indians by a name signifying
rabbitberries, and called by the French graisse de buffle or buffaloe fat. The river too, is
obstructed by many sandbars. At twelve miles we passed an old village on the north, which was
the former residence of the Ahnahaways who now live between the Mandans and Minnetarees. After
making thirteen miles we encamped on the south.

Wednesday 24. The day was again dark and it snowed a little in the morning. At three miles
we came to a point on the south, where the river by forcing a channel across a former bend
has formed a large island on the north. On this island we found one of the grand chiefs of
the Mandans, who with five lodges was on a hunting excursion. He met his enemy the Ricara chief,
with great ceremony and apparent cordiality, and smoked with him. After visiting his lodges,
the grand chief and his brother came on board our boat for a short time; we then proceeded
and encamped on the north, at seven miles from our last night's station and below the old village
of the Mandans and Ricaras. Here four Mandans came down from a camp above, and our Ricara chief
returned with them to their camp, from which we auger favourably of their pacific views towards
each other. The land is low and beautiful, and covered with oak and cottonwood, but has been
too recently hunted to afford much game.

25th. The morning was cold and the wind gentle from the southeast: at three miles we passed
a handsome high prairie on the south, and on an eminence about forty feet above the water and
extending back for several miles in a beautiful plain, was situated an old village of the Mandan
nation which has been deserted for many years. A short distance above it, on the continuation
of the same rising ground are two old villages of Ricaras, one on the top of the hill, the
other in the level plain, which have been deserted only five years ago. Above these villages
is an extensive low ground for several miles, in which are situated, at three or four miles
from the Ricara villages, three old villages of Mandans near together. Here the Mandans lived
when the Ricaras came to them for protection, and from this they moved to their present situation
above. In the low ground the squaws raised their corn, and the timber, of which there was little
near the villages, was supplied from the opposite side of the river, where it was and still
is abundant.

As we proceeded several parties of Mandans both on foot and horseback came along the river
to view us, and were very desirous that we should land and talk to them: this we could not
do on account of the sandbreaks on the shore, but we sent our Ricara chief to them in a periogue.
The wind too having shifted to the southwest and being very high it required all our precautions
on board, for the river was full of sandbars which made it very difficult to find the channel.
We got aground several times, and passed a very bad point of rocks, after which we encamped
on a sandpoint to the north, above a handsome plain covered with timber, and opposite to a
high hill on the south side at the distance of eleven miles. Here we were joined by our Ricara
chief, who brought an Indian to the camp where he remained all night.

26th. We set out early with a southwest wind, and after putting the Ricara chief on shore to
join the Mandans who were in great numbers along it, we proceeded to the camp of the grand
chiefs four miles distant. Here we met a Mr. M'Cracken one of the northwest or Hudson Bay company,
who arrived with another person about nine days ago to trade for horses and buffaloe robes.
Two of the chiefs came on board with some of their household furniture, such as earthern pots
and a little corn and went on with us; the rest of the Indians following on shore. At one mile
beyond the camp we passed a small creek, and at three more a bluff of coal of an inferior quality
on the south. After making eleven miles we reached an old field where the Mandans had cultivated
grain last summer, and encamped for the night on the south side, about half a mile below the
first village of the Mandans. In the morning we had a willow low ground on the south and highland
on the north, which occasionally varied in the course of the day. There is but little wood
on this part of the river, which is here subdivided into many channels and obstructed by sandbars.
As soon as we arrived a crowd of men, women, and children came down to see us. Captain Lewis
returned with the principal chiefs to the village, while the others remained with us during
the evening; the object which seemed to surprise them most, was a cornmill fixed to the boat
which we had occasion to use, and delighted them by the ease with which it reduced the grain
to powder. Among others who visited us was the son of the grand chief of the Mandans, who had
his two little fingers cut off at the second joints. The wind blew very cold in the evening
from the southwest. Two of the party are affected with rheumatic complaints. At an early hour
we proceeded and anchored off the village. Captain Clarke went on shore, and after smoking
a pipe with the chiefs, was desired to remain and eat with them. He declined on account of
his being unwell; but his refusal gave great offence to the Indians, who considered it disrespectful
not to eat when invited, till the cause was explained to their satisfaction. We sent them some
tobacco, and then proceeded to the second village on the north, passing by a bank containing
coal, and a second village, and encamped at four miles on the north, opposite to a village
of Ahnahaways. We here met with a Frenchman, named Jesseaume, who lives among the Indians with
his wife and children, and who we take as an interpreter. The Indians had flocked to the bank
to see us as we passed, and they visited in great numbers the camp, where some of them remained
all night. We sent in the evening three young Indians with a present of tobacco for the chiefs
of the three upper villages, inviting them to come down in the morning to a council with us.
Accordingly the next day,

Sunday, October 28, we were joined by many of the Minnetarees and Ahnahaways from above, but
the wind was so violent from the southwest that the chiefs of the lower villages could not
come up, and the council was deferred till to-morrow. In the mean while we entertained our
visitors by showing them what was new to them in the boat; all which, as well our black servant,
they called Great Medicine, the meaning of which we afterwards learnt. We also consulted the
grand chief of the Mandans, Black Cat, and Mr. Jesseaume, as to the names, characters, &c.
of the chiefs with whom we are to hold the council. In the course of the day we received several
presents from the women, consisting of corn, boiled hominy, and garden stuffs: in our turn
we gratified the wife of the great chief with a gift of a glazed earthen jar. Our hunter brought
us two beaver. In the afternoon we sent the Minnetaree chiefs to smoke for us with the great
chief of the Mandans, and told them we would speak in the morning.

Finding that we shall be obliged to pass the winter at this place, we went up the river about
one and a half miles to-day, with a view of finding a convenient spot for a fort, but the timber
was too scarce and small for our purposes.

Monday, October 29. The morning was fine and we prepared our presents and speech for the council.
After breakfast we were visited by an old chief of the Ahnahaways, who finding himself growing
old and weak had transferred his power to his son, who is now at war against the Shoshonees.
At ten o'clock the chiefs were all assembled under an awning of our sails, stretched so as
to exclude the wind which had become high; that the impression might be the more forcible,
the men were all paraded, and the council opened by a discharge from the swivel of the boat.
We then delivered a speech, which like those we had already made intermingled advice with assurances
of friendship and trade: while we were speaking the old Ahnahaway chief grew very restless,
and observed that he could not wait long as his camp was exposed to the hostilities of the
Shoshonees; he was instantly rebuked with great dignity by one of the chiefs for this violation
of decorum at such a moment, and remained quiet during the rest of the council. Towards the
end of our speech we introduced the subject of our Ricara chief, with whom we recommended a
firm peace: to this they seemed well disposed, and all smoked with him very amicably. We all
mentioned the goods which had been taken from the Frenchmen, and expressed a wish that they
should he restored.

The chiefs who were made to-day are: Shahaka or Big White, a first chief, and Kagohami or Little
Raven, a second chief of the lower village of the Mandans, called Matootonha: the other chiefs
of an inferior quality who were recommended were, 1. Ohheenaw, or Big Man, a Chayenne taken
prisoner by the Mandans who adopted him, and he now enjoys great consideration among the tribe.
2. Shotahawrora, or Coal, of the second Mandan village which is called Rooptahee. We made Poscopsahe,
or Black Cat, the first chief of the village, and the grand chief of the whole Mandan nation:
his second chief is Kagonomokshe, or Raven man Chief; inferior chiefs of this village were,
Tawnuheo, and Bellahsara, of which we did not learn the translation.

In the third village which is called Mahawha, and where the Arwacahwas reside, we made one
first chief, Tetuckopinreha, or White Buffaloe robe unfolded, and recognized two of an inferior
order: Minnissurraree, or Neighing Horse, and Locongotiha, or Old woman at a distance.

Of the fourth village where the Minnetarees live, and which is called Metaharta, we made a
first chief, Ompsehara, or Black Moccasin: a second chief, Ohhaw, or Little Fox. Other distinguished
chiefs of this village were, Mahnotah, or Big Thief, a man whom we did not see as he is out
fighting, and was killed soon after; and Mahserassa, or Tail of the Calumet Bird. In the fifth
village we made a first chief Eapanopa, or Red Shield; a second chief Wankerassa, or Two Tailed
Calumet Bird, both young chiefs; other persons of distinction are, Shahakohopinnee, or Little
Wolf's Medicine; Ahrattanamoekshe, or Wolfman chief, who is now at war, and is the son of the
old chief we have mentioned, whose name is Caltahcota, or Cherry on a Bush.

The presents intended for the grand chief of the Minnetarees, who was not at the council, were
sent to him by the old chief Caltahcota; and we delivered to a young chief those intended for
the chief of the lower village. The council was concluded by a shot from our swivel, and after
firing the airgun for their amusement, they retired to deliberate on the answer which they
are to give to-morrow.

Tuesday 30.

Wednesday 31. A second chief arrived this morning with an invitation from the grand chief of
the Mandans, to come to his village where he wished to present some corn to us and to speak
with us. Captain Clarke walked down to his village; he was first seated with great ceremony
on a robe by the side of the chief, who then threw over his shoulders another robe handsomely
ornamented. The pipe was then smoked with several of the old men who were seated around the
chief; after some time he began his discourse, by observing that he believed what we had told
him, and that they should soon enjoy peace, which would gratify him as well as his people,
because they could then hunt without fear of being attacked, and the women might work in the
fields without looking every moment for the enemy, and at night put off their moccasins, a
phrase by which is conveyed the idea of security when the women could undress at night without
fear of attack. As to the Ricaras, he continued, in order to show you that we wish peace with
all men, that chief, pointing to his second chief, will go with some warriors back to the Ricaras
with their chief now here and smoke with that nation. When we heard of your coming all the
nations around returned from their hunting to see you, in hopes of receiving large presents;
all are disappointed and some discontented; for his part he was not much so, though his village
was. He added that he would go and see his great father the president. Two of the steel traps
stolen from the Frenchmen were then laid before captain Clarke, and the women brought about
twelve bushels of corn. After the chief had finished, captain Clarke made an answer to the
speech and then returned to the boat, where he found the chief of the third village and Kagohami
(the Little Raven) who smoked and talked about an hour. After they left the boat the grand
chief of the Mandans came dressed in the clothes we had given him, with his two children, and
begged to see the men dance, in which they willingly gratified him.

Thursday, November 1st. Mr. M'Cracken, the trader whom we found here, set out to-day on his
return to the British fort and factory on the Assiniboin river, about one hundred and fifty
miles from this place. He took a letter from captain Lewis to the northwest company, inclosing
a copy of the passport granted by the British minister in the United States. At ten o'clock
the chiefs of the lower village arrived; they requested that we would call at their village
for some corn, that they were willing to make peace with the Ricaras, that they had never provoked
the war between them, but as the Ricaras had killed some of their chiefs, they had retaliated
on them; that they had killed them like birds, till they were tired of killing them, so that
they would send a chief and some warriors to smoke with them. In the evening we dropped down
to the lower village where captain Lewis went on shore, and captain Clarke proceeded to a point
of wood on the north side.

Friday, November 2. He therefore went up to the village where eleven bushels of corn were presented
to him. In the meantime Captain Clarke went down with the boats three miles, and having found
a good position where there was plenty of timber, encamped and began to fell trees to build
our huts. Our Ricara chief set out with one Mandan chief and several Minnetaree and Mandan
warriors; the wind was from the southeast, and the weather being fine a crowd of Indians came
down to visit us.

Saturday 3. We now began the building of our cabins, and the Frenchmen who are to return to
St. Louis are building a periogue for the purpose. We sent six men in a periogue to hunt down
the river. We were also fortunate enough to engage in our service a Canadian Frenchmen, who
had been with the Chayenne Indians on the Black mountains, and last summer descended thence
by the Little Missouri. Mr. Jessaume our interpreter also came down with his squaw and children
to live at our camp. In the evening we received a visit from Kagohami or Little Raven, whose
wife accompanied him, bringing about sixty weight of dried meat, a robe and a pot of meal.
We gave him in return a piece of tobacco, to his wife an axe and a few small articles, and
both of them spent the night at our camp. Two beavers were caught in traps this morning.

Sunday 4. We continued our labours: the timber which we employ is large and heavy, and chiefly
consists of cottonwood and elm with some ash of an inferior size. Great numbers of the Indians
pass our camp on their hunting excursions: the day was clear and pleasant, but last night was
very cold and there was a white frost.

Monday 5. The Indians are all out on their hunting parties: a camp of Mandans caught within
two days one hundred goats a short distance below us: their mode of hunting them is to form
a large strong pen or fold, from which a fence made of bushes gradually widens on each side:
the animals are surrounded by the hunters and gently driven towards this pen, in which they
imperceptibly find themselves inclosed and are then at the mercy of the hunters. The weather
is cloudy and the wind moderate from the northwest. Late at night we were awaked by the sergeant
on guard to see the beautiful phenomenon called the northern light: along the northern sky
was a large space occupied by a light of a pale but brilliant white colour: which rising from
the horizon extended itself to nearly twenty degrees above it. It all faded away before the
morning. At daylight,

Tuesday 6, the clouds to the north were darkening and the wind rose high from the northwest
at eight o'clock, and continued cold during the day. Mr. Gravelines and four others who came
with us returned to the Ricaras in a small periogue, we gave him directions to accompany some
of the Ricara chiefs to the seat of government in the spring.

Wednesday 7. The day was temperate but cloudy and foggy, and we were enabled to go on with
our work with much expedition.

Thursday 8. The morning again cloudy; our huts advance very well, and we are visited by numbers
of Indians who come to let their horses graze near us: in the day the horses are let loose
in quest of grass, in the night they are collected and receive an armful of small boughs of
the cottonwood, which being very juicy, soft and brittle, form nutritious and agreeable food:
the frost this morning was very severe, the weather during the day cloudy and the wind from
the northwest. We procured from an Indian a weasel perfectly white except the extremity of
the tail which was black: great numbers of wild geese are passing to the south, but their flight
is too high for us to procure any of them.

November 10. We had again a raw day, a northwest wind, but rose early in hopes of finishing
our works before the extreme cold begins. A chief who is a half Pawnee came to us and brought
a present of half a buffaloe, in return for which we gave him some small presents and a few
articles to his wife and son: he then crossed the river in a buffaloe skin canoe; his wife
took the boat on her back and carried it to the village three miles off. Large flocks of geese
and brant, and also a few ducks are passing towards the south.

Sunday 11. The weather is cold. We received the visit of two squaws, prisoners from the Rock
mountains, and purchased by Chaboneau. The Mandans at this time are out hunting the buffaloe.

Monday 12. The last night had been cold and this morning we had a very hard frost: the wind
changeable during the day, and some ice appears on the edges of the rivers; swans too are passing
to the south. The Big White came down to us, having packed on the back of his squaw about one
hundred pounds of very fine meat: for which we gave him as well as the squaw some presents,
particularly an axe to the woman with which she was very much pleased.

Tuesday 13. We this morning unloaded the boat and stowed away the contents in a storehouse
which we have built. At half past ten ice began to float down the river for the first time:
in the course of the morning we were visited by the Black Cat, Poscapsahe, who brought an Assiniboin
chief and seven warriors to see us. This man, whose name is Chechawk, is a chief of one out
of three bands of Assiniboins who wander over the plains between the Missouri and Assiniboin
during the summer, and in the winter carry the spoils of their hunting to the traders on the
Assiniboin river, and occasionally come to this place: the whole three bands consist of about
eight hundred men. We gave him a twist of tobacco to smoke with his people, and a gold cord
for himself: the Sioux also asked for whiskey which we refused to give them. It snowed all
day and the air was very cold.

Wednesday 14. The river rose last night half an inch, and is now filled with floating ice.
This morning was cloudy with some snow: about seventy lodges of Assiniboins and some Knistenaux
are at the Mandan village, and this being the day of adoption and exchange of property between
them all, it is accompanied by a dance, which prevents our seeing more than two Indians to-day:
these Knistenaux are a band of Chippeways whose language they speak; they live on the Assiniboin
and Saskashawan rivers, and are about two hundred and forty men. We sent a man down on horseback
to see what had become of our hunters, and as we apprehend a failure of provisions we have
recourse to our pork this evening. Two Frenchmen who had been below returned with twenty beaver
which they had caught in traps.

Thursday 15. The morning again cloudy, and the ice running thicker than yesterday, the wind
variable. The man came back with information that our hunters were about thirty miles below,
and we immediately sent an order to them to make their way through the floating ice, to assist
them in which we sent some tin for the bow of the periogue and a towrope. The ceremony of yesterday
seem to continue still, for we were not visited by a single Indian. The swan are still passing
to the south.

Friday 16. We had a very hard white frost this morning, the trees are all covered with ice,
and the weather cloudy. The men this day moved into the huts, although they are not finished.
In the evening some horses were sent down to the woods near us in order to prevent their being
stolen by the Assiniboins, with whom some difficulty is now apprehended. An Indian came down
with four buffaloe robes and some corn, which he offered for a pistol, but was refused.

Saturday, November 17. Last night was very cold, and the ice in the river to-day is thicker
than hitherto. We are totally occupied with our huts, but received visits from several Indians.

Sunday, November 18. To-day we had a cold windy morning; the Black Cat came to see us, and
occupied us for a long time with questions on the usages of our country. He mentioned that
a council had been held yesterday to deliberate on the state of their affairs. It seems that
not long ago, a party of Sioux fell in with some horses belonging to the Minnetarees, and carried
them off; but in their flight they were met by some Assiniboins, who killed the Sioux and kept
the horses: a Frenchman too who had lived many years among the Mandans, was lately killed on
his route to the British factory on the Assiniboin; some smaller differences existed between
the two nations, all of which being discussed, the council decided that they would not resent
the recent insults from the Assiniboins and Knistenaux, until they had seen whether we had
deceived them or not in our promises of furnishing them with arms and ammunition. They had
been disappointed in their hopes of receiving them from Mr. Evans and were afraid that we too,
like him, might tell them what was not true. We advised them to continue at peace, that supplies
of every kind would no doubt arrive for them, but that time was necessary to organize the trade.
The fact is that the Assiniboins treat the Mandans as the Sioux do the Ricaras; by their vicinity
to the British they get all the supplies, which they withhold or give at pleasure to the remoter
Indians: the consequence is, that however badly treated, the Mandans and Ricaras are very slow
to retaliate lest they should* lose their trade altogether.

Monday 19. The ice continues to float in the river, the wind high from the northwest, and the
weather cold. Our hunters arrived from their excursion below, and bring a very fine supply
of thirty-two deer, eleven elk, and five buffaloe, all of which was hung in a smokehouse.

Tuesday 20. We this day moved into our huts which are now completed. The works consist of two
rows of huts or sheds, forming an angle where they joined each other; each row containing four
rooms, of fourteen feet square and seven feet high, with plank ceiling*, and the roof slanting
so as to form a loft above the rooms, the highest part of which is eighteen feet from the ground:
the backs of the huts formed a wall of that height, and opposite the angle the place of the
wall was supplied by picketing; in the area were two rooms for stores and provisions. The latitude
by observation is 47° 21' 47", and the computed distance from the mouth of the Missouri sixteen
hundred miles.

In the course of the day several Indians came down to partake of our fresh meat; among the
rest, three chiefs of the second Mandan village. They inform us that the Sioux on the Missouri
above the Chayenne river, threaten to attack them this winter; that these Sioux are much irritated
at the Ricaras for having made peace through our means with the Mandans, and have lately ill
treated three Ricaras who carried the pipe of peace to them, by beating them and taking away
their horses. We gave them assurances that we would protect them from all their enemies.

November 21st. The weather was this day fine: the river clear of ice and rising a little: we
are now settled in our new winter habitation, and shall wait with much anxiety the first return
of spring to continue our journey.

The villages near which we are established are five in number, and are the residence of three
distinct nations: the Mandans, the Ahnahaways, and the Minnetarees. The history of the Mandans,
as we received it from our interpreters and from the chiefs themselves, and as it is attested
by existing monuments, illustrates more than that of any other nation the unsteady movements
and the tottering fortunes of the American nations. Within the recollection of living witnesses,
the Mandans were settled forty years ago in nine villages, the ruins of which we passed about
eighty miles below, and situated seven on the west and two on the east side of the Missouri.
The two finding themselves wasting away before the small-pox and the Sioux, united into one
village, and moved up the river opposite to the Ricaras. The same causes reduced the remaining
seven to five villages, till at length they emigrated in a body to the Ricara nation, where
they formed themselves into two villages, and joined those of their countrymen who had gone
before them. In their new residence they were still insecure, and at length the three villages
ascended the Missouri to their present position. The two who had emigrated together still settled
in the two villages on the northwest side of the Missouri, while the single village took a
position on the southeast side. In this situation they were found by those who visited them
in 1796; since which the two villages have united into one. They are now in two villages, one
on the southeast of the Missouri, the other on the opposite side, and at the distance of three
miles across. The first, in an open plain, contains about forty or fifty lodges, built in the
same way as those of the Ricaras: the second, the same number, and both may raise about three
hundred and fifty men.

On the same side of the river, and at the distance of four miles from the lower Mandan village,
is another called Mahaha. It is situated in a high plain at the mouth of Knife river, and is
the residence of the Ahnahaways. This nation, whose name indicates that they were "people whose
village is on a hill," formerly resided on the Missouri, about thirty miles below where they
now live. The Assiniboins and Sioux forced them to a spot five miles higher, where the greatest
part of them were put to death, and the rest emigrated to their present situation, in order
to obtain an assylum near the Minnetarees. They are called by the French, Soulier Noir or Shoe
Indians; by the Mandans, Wattasoons, and their whole force is about fifty men.

On the south side of the same Knife river, half a mile above the Mahaha and in the same open
plain with it, is a village of Minnetarees surnamed Metaharta, who are about one hundred and
fifty men in number. On the opposite side of Knife river, and one and a half mile above this
village is a second of Minnetarees, who may be considered as the proper Minnetaree nation.
It is situated in a beautiful low plain, and contains four hundred and fifty warriors. The
accounts which we received of the Minnetarees were contradictory. The Mandans say that this
people came out of the water to the east, and settled near them in their former establishment
in nine villages; that they were very numerous, and fixed themselves in one village on the
southern side of the Missouri. A quarrel about a buffaloe divided the nation, of which two
bands went into the plains, and were known by the name of Crow and Paunch Indians, and the
rest moved to their present establishment. The Minnetarees proper assert, on the contrary,
that they grew where they now live, and will never emigrate from the spot; the great spirit
having declared that if they moved they would all die. They also say that the Minnetarees Metaharta,
that is Minnetarees of the Willows, whose language with very little variation is their own,
came many years ago from the plains and settled near them, and perhaps the two traditions may
be reconciled by the natural presumption that these Minnetarees were the tribe known to the
Mandans below, and that they ascended the river for the purpose of rejoining the Minnetarees
proper. These Minnetarees are part of the great nation called Fall Indians, who occupy the
intermediate country between the Missouri and the Saskaskawan, and who are known by the name
of Minnetarees of the Missouri, and Minnetarees of Fort de Prairie; that is, residing near
or rather frequenting the establishment in the prairie on the Saskaskawan. These Minnetarees
indeed, told us that they had relations on the Saskaskawan, whom they had never known till
they met them in war, and having engaged in the night were astonished at discovering that they
were fighting with men who spoke their own language. The name of Grosventres, or Bigbellies
is given to these Minnetarees, as well as to all the Fall Indians. The inhabitants of these
five villages, all of which are within the distance of six miles, live in harmony with each
other. The Ahnahaways understand in part the language of the Minnetarees: the dialect of the
Mandans differs widely from both; but their long residence together has insensibly blended
their manners, and occasioned some approximation in language, particularly as to objects of
daily occurrence and obvious to the senses.

November 22. The morning was fine, and the day warm. We purchased from the Mandans a quantity
of corn of a mixed colour, which they dug up in ears from holes made near the front of their
lodges, in which it is buried during the winter: this morning the sentinel informed us that
an Indian was about to kill his wife near the fort; we went down to the house of our interpreter
where we found the parties, and after forbidding any violence, inquired into the cause of his
intending to commit such as atrocity. It appeared that some days ago a quarrel had taken place
between him and his wife, in consequence of which she had taken refuge in the house where the
two squaws of our interpreter lived: by running away she forfeited her life, which might have
been lawfully taken by the husband. About two days ago she had returned to the village, but
the same evening came back to the fort much beaten and stabbed in three places, and the husband
now came for the purpose of completing his revenge. He observed that he had lent her to one
of our serjeants for a night, and that if he wanted her he would give her to him altogether:
we gave him a few presents and tried to persuade him to take his wife home; the grand chief
too happened to arrive at the same moment, and reproached him with his violence, till at length
they went off together, but by no means in a state of much apparent love.

November 23. Again we had a fair and warm day, with the wind from the southeast: the river
is now at a stand having risen four inches in the whole.

November 24. The wind continued from the same quarter and the weather was warm: we were occupied
in finishing our huts and making a large rope of elk-skin to draw our boat on the bank.

Sunday, November 25. The weather is still fine, warm and pleasant, and the river falls one
inch and a half. Captain Lewis went on an excursion to the villages accompanied by eight men.
A Minnetaree chief, the first who has visited us, came down to the fort: his name was Waukerassa,
but as both the interpreters had gone with captain Lewis we were obliged to confine our civilities
to some presents with which he was much pleased: we now completed our huts, and fortunately
too, for the next day,

Monday, November 26, before daylight the wind shifted to the northwest, and blew very hard,
with cloudy weather and a keen cold air, which confined us much and prevented us from working:
the night continued very cold, and,

Tuesday 27, the weather cloudy, the wind continuing from the northwest and the river crowded
with floating ice. Captain Lewis returned with two chiefs Mahnotah, an Ahnahaway, and Minnessurraree
a Minnetaree, and a third warrior: they explained to us that the reason of their not having
come to see us, was that the Mandans had told them that we meant to combine with the Sioux
and cut them off in the course of the winter: a suspicion increased by the strength of the
fort, and the circumstance of our interpreters having both removed there with their families:
these reports we did not fail to disprove to their entire satisfaction, and amused them by
every attention, particularly by the dancing of the men which diverted them highly. All the
Indians whom captain Lewis had visited were very well disposed, and received him with great
kindness, except a principal chief of one of the upper villages, named Mabpahpaparapassatoo
or Horned Weasel, who made use of the civilized indecorum of refusing to be seen, and when
captain Lewis called he was told the chief was not at home. In the course of the day seven
of the northwest company's traders arrived from the Assiniboin river, and one of their interpreters
having undertaken to circulate among the Indians unfavourable reports, it become necessary
to warn them of the consequences if they did not desist from such proceedings. The river fell
two inches to-day and the weather became very cold.

Wednesday 28. About eight o'clock last evening it began to snow and continued till daybreak,
after which it ceased till seven o'clock, but then resumed and continued during the day, the
weather being cold and the river full of floating ice: about eight o'clock Poscopsahe came
down to visit us, with some warriors; we gave them presents and entertained them with all that
might amuse their curiosity, and at parting we told them that we had heard of the British trader,
Mr. Laroche, having attempted to distribute medals and flags among them, but that those emblems
could not be received from any other than the American nation without incurring the displeasure
of their great father the president. They left us much pleased with their treatment. The river
fell one inch to-day.

Thursday 29. The wind is again from the northwest, the weather cold, and the snow which fell
yesterday and this night is thirteen inches in depth. The river closed during the night at
the village above, and fell two feet; but this afternoon it began to rise a little. Mr. Laroche,
the principal of the seven traders, came with one of his men to see us; we told him that we
should not permit him to give medals and flags to the Indians; he declared that he had no such
intention, and we then suffered him to make use of one of our interpreters, on his stipulating
not to touch any subject but that of his traffic with them. An unfortunate accident occurred
to sergeant Pryor, who in taking down the boat's mast dislocated his shoulder, nor was it till
after four trials that we replaced it.

Friday 30. About eight o'clock an Indian came to the opposite bank of the river, calling out
that he had something important to communicate, and on sending for him, he told us that five
Mandans had been met about eight leagues to the southwest by a party of Sioux, who had killed
one of them, wounded two, and taken nine horses; that four of the Wattasoons were missing,
and that the Mandans expected an attack. We thought this an excellent opportunity to discountenance
the injurious reports against us, and to fix the wavering confidence of the nation. Captain
Clarke therefore instantly crossed the river with twenty-three men strongly armed, and circling
the town approached it from behind. His unexpected appearance surprised and alarmed the chiefs,
who came out to meet him, and conducted him to the village. He then told them that having heard
of the outrage just committed, he had come to assist his dutiful children; that if they would
assemble their warriors and those of the nation, he would lead them against the Sioux and avenge
the blood of their countrymen. After some minutes conversation, Oheenaw the Chayenne arose;
"We now see," said he, "that what you have told us is true, since as soon as our enemies threaten
to attack us you come to protect us and are ready to chastise those who have spilt our blood.
We did indeed listen to your good talk, for when you told us that the other nations were inclined
to peace with us, we went out carelessly in small parties, and some have been killed by the
Sioux and Ricaras. But I knew that the Ricaras were liars, and I told their chief who accompanied
you, that his whole nation were liars and bad men; that we had several times made a peace with
them which they were the first to break; that whenever we pleased we might shoot them like
buffaloe, but that we had no wish to kill them; that we would not suffer them to kill us, nor
steal our horses; and that although we agreed to make peace with them, because our two fathers
desired it, yet we did not believe that they would be faithful long. Such, father, was my language
to them in your presence, and you see that instead of listening to your good counsels they
have spilt our blood. A few days ago two Ricaras came here and told us that two of their villages
were making moccasins, that the Sioux were stirring them up against us, and that we ought to
take care of our horses; yet these very Ricaras we sent home as soon as the news reached us
to-day, lest our people should kill them in the first moment of grief for their murdered relatives.
Four of the Wattasoons whom we expected back in sixteen days have been absent twenty-four,
and we fear have fallen. But father the snow is now deep, the weather cold, and our horses
cannot travel through the plains; the murderers have gone off: if you will conduct us in the
spring, when the snow has disappeared, we will assemble all the surrounding warriors and follow
you."

Captain Clarke replied that we were always willing and able to defend them; that he was sorry
that the snow prevented their marching to meet the Sioux, since he wished to show them that
the warriors of their great father would chastise the enemies of his obedient children who
opened their ears to his advice; that if some Ricaras had joined the Sioux, they should remember
that there were bad men in every nation, and that they should not be offended at the Ricaras
till they saw whether these ill-disposed men were countenanced by the whole tribe; that the
Sioux possessed great influence over the Ricaras, whom they supplied with military stores,
and sometimes led them astray, because they were afraid to oppose them: but that this should
be the less offensive since the Mandans themselves were under the same apprehensions from the
Assiniboins and Knistenaux, and that while they were thus dependant, both the Ricaras and Mandans
ought to keep on terms with their powerful neighbours, whom they may afterwards set at defiance,
when we shall supply them with arms, and take them under our protection.

After two hours conversation captain Clarke left the village. The chief repeatedly thanked
him for the fatherly protection he had given them, observing that the whole village had been
weeping all night and day for the brave young man who had been slain, but now they would wipe
their eyes and weep no more as they saw that their father would protect them. He then crossed
the river on the ice and returned on the north side to the fort. The day as well as the evening
was cold, and the river rose to its former height.

Saturday, December 1. The wind was from the northwest, and the whole party engaged in picketing
the fort. About ten o'clock the half-brother of the man who had been killed, came to inform
us that six Sharhas or Chayenne Indians had arrived, bringing a pipe of peace, and that their
nation was three days march behind them. Three Pawnees had accompanied the Sharhas, and the
Mandans being afraid of the Sharhas on account of their being at peace with the Sioux, wished
to put both them and the three Pawnees to death; but the chiefs had forbidden it as it would
be contrary to our wishes. We gave him a present of tobacco, and although from his connexion
with the sufferer, he was more embittered against the Pawnees than any other Mandan, yet he
seemed perfectly satisfied with our pacific counsels and advice. The Mandans, we observe, call
all the Ricaras by the name of Pawnees; the name of Ricaras being that by which the nation
distinguishes itself.

In the evening we were visited by a Mr. Henderson, who came from the Hudson bay company to
trade with the Minnetarees. He had been about eight days on his route in a direction nearly
south, and brought with him tobacco, beeds, and other merchandize to trade for furs, and a
few guns which are to be exchanged for horses.

Sunday, December 2. The latter part of the evening was warm, and a thaw continued till the
morning, when the wind shifted to the north. At eleven o'clock the chiefs of the lower village
brought down four of the Sharhas. We explained to them our intentions, and advised them to
remain at peace with each other: we also gave them a flag, some tobacco, and a speech for their
nation. These were accompanied by a letter to messrs. Tabeau and Gravelines at the Ricara village,
requesting them to preserve peace if possible, and to declare the part which we should be forced
to take if the Ricaras and Sioux made war on those whom we had adopted. After distributing
a few presents to the Sharhas and Mandans, and showing them our curiosities we dismissed them,
apparently well pleased at their reception.

Monday, December 3. The morning was fine, but in the afternoon the weather became cold with
the wind from the northwest. The father of the Mandan who was killed brought us a present of
dried pumpkins and some pemitigon, for which we gave him some small articles. Our offer of
assistance to avenge the death of his son seemed to have produced a grateful respect from him,
as well as from the brother of the deceased, which pleased us much.

Tuesday 4th. The wind continues from the northwest, the weather cloudy and raw, and the river
rose one inch, Oscapsahe and two young chiefs pass the day with us. Those who were left on
earth made a village below where we saw the nine villages; and when the Mandans die they expect
to return to the original seats of their forefathers; the good reaching the ancient village
by means of the lake, which the burden of the sins of the wicked will not enable them to cross.

Wednesday 5. The morning was cold and disagreeable, the wind from the southeast accompanied
with snow: in the evening there was snow again and the wind shifted to the northeast: we were
visited by several Indians with a present of pumpkins, and by two of the traders of the northwest
company.

Thursday 6. The wind was violent from the north northwest with some snow, the air keen and
cold. At eight o'clock A.M. the thermometer stood at ten degrees above 0, and the river rose
an inch and a half in the course of the day.

Friday, December 7. The river closed opposite the fort last night, an inch and a half in thickness.
In the morning the thermometer stood at one degree below 0. Three men were badly frostbitten
in consequence of their exposure.

Saturday 8. The thermometer stood at twelve degrees below 0, that is at forty-two degrees below
the freezing point: the wind was from the northwest. Captain Lewis with fifteen men went out
to hunt the buffaloe; great numbers of which darkened the prairies for a considerable distance:
they did not return till after dark, having killed eight buffaloe and one deer. The hunt was,
however, very fatiguing, as they were obliged to make a circuit at the distance of more than
seven miles; the cold too, was so excessive that the air was filled with icy particles resembling
a fog, and the snow generally six or eight inches deep and sometimes eighteen, in consequence
of which two of the party were hurt by falls, and several had their feet frostbitten.

Sunday 9. The wind was this day from the east, the thermometer at seven degrees above 0, and
the sun shone clear: two chiefs visited us, one in a sleigh drawn by a dog and loaded with meat.

Monday 10. Captain Clarke who had gone out yesterday with eighteen men to bring in the meat
we had killed the day before, and to continue the hunt, came in at twelve o'clock. After killing
nine buffaloe and preparing that already dead, he had spent a cold disagreeable night on the
snow, with no covering but a small blanket, sheltered by the hides of the buffaloe they had
killed. We observe large herds of buffaloe crossing the river on the ice, the men who were
frostbitten are recovering, but the weather is still exceedingly cold, the wind being from
the north, and the thermometer at ten and eleven degrees below 0: the rise of the river is
one inch and a half.

Tuesday 11. The weather became so intensely cold that we sent for all the hunters who had remained
out with captain Clarke's party, and they returned in the evening several of them frostbitten.
The river continues at a stand. Pocapsahe made us a visit to-day.

Wednesday, December 12. The wind is still from the north, the thermometer being at sunrise
thirty-eight degrees below 0. One of the Ahnahaways brought us down the half of an antelope
killed near the fort; we had been informed that all these animals return to the Black mountains,
but there are great numbers of them about us at this season which we might easily kill, but
are unwilling to venture out before our constitutions are hardened gradually to the climate.
We measured the river on the ice, and find it five hundred yards wide immediately opposite
the fort.

Thursday 13. Last night was clear and a very heavy frost covered the old snow, the thermometer
at sun rise being twenty degrees below 0, and followed by a fine day. The river falls.

Friday 14. The morning was fine, and the weather having moderated so far, that the mercury
stood at 0, captain Lewis went down with a party to hunt; they proceeded about eighteen miles,
but the buffaloe having left the banks of the river they saw only two, which were so poor as
not to be worth killing, and shot two deer. Notwithstanding the snow we were visited by a large
number of the Mandans.

Saturday 15. Captain Lewis finding no game returned to the fort hunting on both sides of the
river, but with no success. The wind being from the north, the mercury at sunrise eight degrees
below 0, and the snow of last night an inch and a half in depth. The Indian chiefs continue
to visit us to-day with presents of meat.

Sunday 16. The morning is clear and cold, the mercury at sunrise 22° below 0. A Mr. Haney with
two other persons from the British establishment on the Assiniboin, arrived in six days with
a letter from Mr. Charles Chabouilles, one of the company, who with much politeness offered
to render us any service in his power.

Monday 17. The weather to-day was colder than any we had yet experienced, the thermometer at
sunrise being 45° below 0, and about eight o'clock it fell to 74° below the freezing point.
From Mr. Haney, who is a very sensible intelligent man, we obtained much geographical information
with regard to the country between the Missouri and Mississippi, and the various tribes of
Sioux who inhabit it.

Tuesday 18. The thermometer at sunrise was 32° below 0. The Indians had invited us yesterday
to join their chace to-day, but the seven men whom we sent returned in consequence of the cold,
which was so severe last night that we were obliged to have the sentinel relieved every half
hour. The northwest traders however left us on their return home.

Wednesday 19. The weather moderated, and the river rose a little, so that we were enabled to
continue the picketing of the fort. Notwithstanding the extreme cold, we observe the Indians
at the village engaged out in the open air at a game which resembled billiards more than any
thing we had seen, and which we inclined to suspect may have been acquired by ancient intercourse
with the French of Canada. From the first to the second chief's lodge, a distance of about
fifty yards, was covered with timber smoothed and joined so as to be as level as the floor
of one of our houses, with a battery at the end to stop the rings: these rings were of clay-stone
and flat like the chequers for drafts, and the sticks were about four feet long, with two short
pieces at one end in the form of a mace, so fixed that the whole will slide along the board.
Two men fix themselves at one end, each provided with a stick, and one of them with a ring:
they then run along the board, and about half way slide the sticks after the ring.

Thursday 20. The wind was from the N.W. the weather moderate, the thermometer 24° above at
sunrise. We availed ourselves of this change to picket the fort near the river.

Friday 21. The day was fine and warm, the wind N.W. by W. The Indian who had been prevented
a few days ago from killing his wife, came with both his wives to the fort, and was very desirous
of reconciling our interpreter, a jealousy against whom on account of his wife's taking refuge
in his house, had been the cause of his animosity. A woman brought her child with an abscess
in the lower part of the back, and offered as much corn as she could carry for some medicine;
we administered to it of course very cheerfully.

Saturday, 22d. A number of squaws and men dressed like squaws brought corn to trade for small
articles with the men. Among other things we procured two horns of the animal called by the
French the Rock mountain sheep, and known to the Mandans by the name of ahsahta. The animal
itself is about the size of a small elk or large deer: the horns winding like those of a ram
which they resemble also in texture, though larger and thicker.

Sunday, 23d. The weather was fine and warm like that of yesterday: we were again visited by
crowds of Indians of all descriptions, who came either to trade or from mere curiosity. Among
the rest Kogahami, the Little Raven, brought his wife and son loaded with corn, and she then
entertained us with a favourite Mandan dish, a mixture of pumpkins, beans, corn, and chokecherries
with the stones, all boiled together in a kettle, and forming a composition by no means unpalatable.

Monday, 24th. The day continued warm and pleasant, and the number of visitors became troublesome.
As a present to three of the chiefs, we divided a fillet of sheepskin which we brought for
spunging into three pieces each of two inches in width; they were delighted at the gift, which
they deemed of equal value with a fine horse. We this day completed our fort, and the next
morning being Christmas,

Tuesday, 25th, we were awaked before day by a discharge of three platoons from the party. We
had told the Indians not to visit us as it was one of our great medicine days; so that the
men remained at home and amused themselves in various ways, particularly with dancing in which
they take great pleasure. The American flag was hoisted for the first time in the fort; the
best provisions we had were brought out, and this, with a little brandy, enabled them to pass
the day in great festivity.

Wednesday, 26th. The weather is again temperate, but no Indians have come to see us. One of
the northwest traders who came down to request the aid of our Minnetaree interpreter, informs
us that a party of Minnetarees who had gone in pursuit of the Assiniboins who lately stole
their horses had just returned. As is their custom, they came back in small detachments, the
last of which brought home eight horses which they had captured or stolen from an Assiniboin
camp on Mouse river.

