If metaphysics were really a separate and independent science upon which experts alone had
a right to speak, this remark would be a sufficient criticism of the Society. It called itself
metaphysical, and four out of five of its members knew nothing of metaphysics. A defence, however,
might be fairly set up. Some of the questions discussed were independent of purely metaphysical
inquiries. And it may be denied, as I should certainly deny, that experts in metaphysics have
any superiority to amateurs comparable to that which exists in the established sciences. Recent
philosophers have probably dispersed some fallacies and cleared the general issues; but they
are still virtually discussing the old problems. To read Plato, for example, is to wonder almost
equally at his entanglement in puerile fallacies and at his marvellous perception of the nature
of the ultimate and still involved problems. If we could call up Locke or Descartes from the
dead in their old state of mind, we might still be instructed by their conversation, though
they had never heard of the later developments of thought. And, for a similar reason, there
was a real interest in the discussion of great questions by political, or legal, or literary
luminaries, who had seen men and cities and mixed in real affairs and studied life elsewhere
than in books, even though as specialists they might be probably ignorant. The difference was
rather, perhaps, a difference of dialect than of substance. Their weapons were old-fashioned;
but the main lines of attack and defence were the same.

Another criticism, however, was obvious, and is, I think, sufficiently indicated in Mr. Hutton's
imaginary conversation. The so-called discussions were necessarily in the main a series of
assertions. Each disputant simply translated the admitted facts into his own language. The
argument came to saying, I say ditto to Hume, or to Comte, or to Thomas Aquinas. After a brief
encounter, one man declared that he believed in God, and his opponent replied, I don't. It
was impossible really to get further. It was not a difference between two advocates agreed
upon first principles and disputing only some minor corollary, but a manifestation of different
modes of thought, and of diverging conceptions of the world and of life, which had become thoroughly
imbedded in the very texture of the speaker's mind. When it is a question of principles, which
have been the battle-ground of generations; when every argument that can be used has been worked
out by the subtlest thinkers of all times, a dispute can really come to nothing but saying,
I am of this or that turn of mind. The real discussion of such questions is carried on by a
dialectical process which lasts through many generations, and is but little affected by any
particular champion. Thus the general effect necessarily was as of men each securely intrenched
in his own fastness, and, though they might make sallies for a little engagement in the open,
each could retreat to a position of impregnable security, which could be assaulted only by
long siege operations of secular duration.

It was, I fancy, a gradual perception of these difficulties which led to the decay of the Society.
Meanwhile there were many pleasant meetings, and, if the discussions came to be little more
than a mutual exhibition to each other of the various persons concerned, I hope and believe
that each tended to the conviction that his antagonist had neither horns nor hoofs. The discussions,
moreover, produced a considerable crop of Magazine articles; and helped to spread the impression
that certain very important problems were being debated, upon the decision of which immense
practical consequences might depend. It might be curious to inquire how far the real interest
in these arguments extended, and whether the real state of the popular mind is a vivid interest
in the war between scientific theories and traditional beliefs, or may more fitly be described
as a languid amusement in outworn problems. Fitzjames, at any rate, who always rejoiced, like
Cromwell's pikemen, when he heard the approach of battle, thought, as his letters show, that
the forces were gathering on both sides and that a deadly struggle was approaching. The hostility
between the antagonists was as keen as it had been in the sixteenth and seventeenth centuries,
though covered for the present by decent pretences of mutual toleration. He contributed during
this period a paper upon Newman's 'Grammar of Assent' to 'Fraser's Magazine'; and he wrote
several articles, partly the product of the Metaphysical Society, in the 'Contemporary Review'
and the 'Nineteenth Century,' both under the editorship of Mr. Knowles.

I shall speak of them so far as they illustrate what was, I think, his definite state of mind
upon the matters involved. His chief encounters were with Cardinal Manning ('Contemporary Review,'
March and May 1874), and with W. G. Ward ('Contemporary Review,' December 1874), and with Mr.
Gladstone ('Nineteenth Century,' April 1877). The controversy with Mr. Gladstone turned upon
certain points raised in Sir G. C. Lewis's book upon 'Authority in Matters of Opinion.' The
combatants were so polite, and their ultimate difference, which was serious enough, was so
mixed up with discussions of Lewis's meaning, that a consideration of the argument would be
superfluous. The articles directed against Manning, to which his antagonist replied in succeeding
numbers of the Review, were of more interest. The essence of Fitzjames's argument was a revival
of his old challenge to Newman. He took occasion of a pamphlet by Manning to ask once more
the very pertinent question: You claim to represent an infallible and supernatural authority
which has indefeasible rights to my allegiance; upon what grounds, then, is your claim based?
To establish it, you have first to prove that we have such a knowledge of God as will enable
us to draw special inferences as to particular institutions; next, that Christ was an incarnation
of that God; then, that Christ founded a particular institution; and, finally, that the institution
was identical with the Catholic Church. The argument covers a very wide ground; and I think
that Fitzjames never wrote with more concentrated vigour. I have a certain difficulty in speaking
of Manning's reply; because it has apparently come to be understood that we are bound to pay
insincere compliments to a good man's understanding when he disagrees with our views. Now I
am quite willing to admit that Manning was a most amiable and well-meaning person; but I am
unable to consider him seriously as a reasoner. The spectacle which he presented on this occasion,
at least, was that of a fluent popular preacher, clutched by a powerful logician, and put into
a witness-box to be thoroughly cross-examined. The one quality I can discover in his articles
is a certain dexterity in evading plain issues and covering inconsistencies by cheap rhetoric.
The best suggestion to be made on his side would be that he was so weak an advocate that he
could not do justice to the argument.

The controversy with W. G. Ward was of different character. Ward, with his usual courtesy to
intellectual antagonists, had corresponded with Fitzjames, in whose writings he was much interested.
He now challenged his opponent to republish a paper upon 'necessary truths,' which had been
read to the Metaphysical Society. Fitzjames accordingly reproduced it with a comment, and Ward
replied in the next number. Ward was undoubtedly a man of much dialectical ability, and, I
think, in some directions more familiar than his opponent with metaphysical subtleties. Fitzjames
considered himself to have had the best of the argument, and says that the 'Tablet' admitted
his superiority. I presume, however, that Ward would have returned the opposite verdict. I
am the less inclined to pronounce any opinion because I believe that most competent people
would now regard the whole discussion as turning upon a false issue. In fact, it was the old
question, so eagerly debated by J. S. Mill and Ward, as to the existence of intuitions and
'necessary truths.' Neither Mill's empiricism nor Ward's belief in intuitions 'in the sense
required' would, I fancy, be now regarded as satisfactory. I think that Fitzjames was greatly
superior in vigour of expression; but the argument is not one to be answered by a single Yes or No.

I cannot even touch such controversies here. My only desire is to indicate Fitzjames's intellectual
attitude. It is sufficiently manifest in these articles. He argues that Ward's position is
really suicidal. Certain things are pronounced by Ward to be impossible even for Omnipotence--as,
for example, to make a trilateral figure which shall not be also triangular. Carry out this
view, says Fitzjames, and you make our conceptions the measure of reality. Mysteries, therefore,
become nonsense, and miracles an impossibility. In fact, Ward's logic would lead to Spinoza,
not to the deity of Catholic belief. Ward might retort that Fitzjames's doctrines would lead
to absolute scepticism or atheism. Fitzjames, in fact, still accepts Mill's philosophy in the
fullest sense. All truth, he declares, may be reduced to the type, 'this piece of paper is
blue, and that is white.' In other words, it is purely empirical and contingent. The so-called
intuitive truths 'two and two make four' only differ from the truth, 'this paper is white'
in that they are confirmed by wider experience. All metaphysical verbiage, says Fitzjames,
whether Coleridge's or Ward's, is an attempt to convert ignorance into superior kind of knowledge,
by 'shaking up hard words in a bag.' Since all our knowledge is relative to our faculties,
it is all liable to error. All our words for other than material objects are metaphors, liable
to be misunderstood--a proposition which he confirms from Horne Tooke's nominalism. All our
knowledge, again, supposes memory which is fallible. All our anticipations assume the 'uniformity
of nature,' which cannot be proved. And, finally, all our anticipations also neglect the possibility
that new forces of which we know nothing may come into play.

Such convictions generally imply agnosticism as almost a necessary consequence. They might
seem to show that what I have called the utilitarian element in his thoughts had effectually
sapped the base of the Puritanic element. I certainly think that this was to some extent the
case. Fitzjames had given up the belief that the Gospel narrative could be proved after the
Paley method, and that was the only method which, according to him, was legitimate. He had,
therefore, ceased to believe in the historical truth of Christianity. After going to India
he did not take part in church services, and he would not, I am sure, have used such language
about his personal convictions as he used in all sincerity at the time of the 'Essays and Reviews'
controversy. In short, he had come to admit that no belief in a supernatural revelation could
be maintained in the face of modern criticism. He often read Renan with great interest; Renan,
indeed, seemed to him to be sentimental, and too favourable to the view that a religion might
have a certain artistic value independent of its truth. But he was as far as Renan or as the
most thorough-going of historical critics from believing in the divinity of Christ or the truth
of the Christian inspiration. But, in spite of this, he still held to his version of the doctrine
of probability. It is summed up in Pascal's famous il faut parier. We can neither put aside
the great religious questions nor give a positive answer to them. We must act on the hypothesis
that one answer or the other is true; but we must not allow any juggling to transmute a judgment
of probability into an undoubting conviction of truth. There are real arguments on both sides,
and we must not ignore the existence of either. In the attack upon Manning he indicates his
reasons for believing in a God. He accepts the argument from final causes, which is, of course,
the only argument open to a thorough empiricist, and holds that it is not invalidated, though
it is, perhaps, modified by recent scientific inquiries. It is probable, therefore, that there
is a God, though we cannot regard the point as proved in such a sense as to afford any basis
for expecting or not expecting a revelation. On the contrary, all analogy shows that in theological,
as in all other matters, the race has to feel its way gradually to truth through innumerable
errors. In writing to a friend about the Manning article he explains himself more fully. Such
articles, he says, give a disproportionate importance to the negative side of his views. His
positive opinions, if 'vague, are at least very deep.' He cannot believe that he is a machine;
he believes that the soul must survive the body; that this implies the existence of God; that
those two beliefs make 'the whole difference between the life of a man and the life of a beast.'
The various religions, including Christianity, try to express these beliefs, and so long as
they are honestly and simply believed are all good in various degrees. But when the creeds
are held on the ground of their beauty or utility, not on the ground of their demonstrable
truth, they become 'the most corrupt and poisonous objects in the world, eating away all force,
and truth, and honour so far as their influence extends.' To propose such beliefs on any ground
but the ground of truth, 'is like keeping a corpse above ground because it was the dearest
and most beloved of all objects when it was alive.' He does not object to authority as such.
He has no objection to follow a doctor's directions or to be loyal to an official superior,
and would equally honour and obey anyone whom he could trust in religious questions. But he
has never found such a guide. 'A guide is all very well if he knows the way, but if he does
not, he is the most fatal piece of luggage in the world.'

To use his favourite language, therefore, he still regarded a 'sanction' as absolutely necessary
to the efficacy of moral or religious teaching. His constant criticism upon positivists and
agnostics is that their creeds afford no satisfactory sanction. They cannot give to the bad
man a reason for being good. But he was equally opposed to sham sanctions and sham claims to
authority. As a matter of fact, his attack upon such claims led most people to classify him
with the agnostics. Nor was this without reason. He differed less in reality, I think, from
Professor Huxley or Mr. Harrison than from Ward or Cardinal Manning. In the arguments at the
'Metaphysical Society' he was on the left wing as against both Catholics and the more or less
liberal theologians, whose reasoning seemed to him hopelessly flimsy. His first principles
in philosophy were those of the agnostics, and in discussing such principles he necessarily
took their part. He once told Mr. Harrison that he did not wish to have any more controversies
with him, because dog should not fight dog. He sympathised as heartily as any man could do
in the general spirit of rationalism and the desire that every belief should be the outcome
of the fullest and freest discussions possible. Every attempt to erect a supernatural authority
roused his uncompromising antagonism. So long as people agreed with him upon that point, they
were at one upon the main issue. His feeling was apparently that expressed in the old phrase
that he would go with them as far as Hounslow though he did not feel bound to go to Windsor.

Writing a few months later to the same correspondent, he observes that the difference between
them is partly a difference of character. Circumstances have developed in him a 'harsh and
combative way of thinking and writing in these matters.' Yet he had felt at times that it required
so much 'effort of will to face dreary and unpleasant conclusions' that he could hardly keep
his mind in the direction, or what he thought the direction, of truth without much pain. He
could happily turn to neutral subjects, and had (I rather doubt the accuracy of the phrase)
'a peculiarly placid turn of mind.' He admits that a desire for knowledge is right and inevitable,
but all experience shows our fallibility and the narrow limits of our knowledge. We know, however,
that 'we are bound together by innumerable ties, and that almost every act of our lives deeply
affects our friends' happiness.' The belief again (in the sense always of belief of a probability)
in the fundamental doctrines of God and a future state imposes an 'obligation to be virtuous,
that is, to live so as to promote the happiness of the whole body of which I am a member. Is
there,' he asks, 'anything illogical or inconsistent in this view?'

At any rate, it explains his 'moral indignation' against Roman Catholicism. In the first place,
Catholicism claims 'miraculous knowledge' where there should be an honest confession of ignorance.
This original vice has made it 'to the last degree dishonest, unjust, and cruel to all real
knowledge.' It has been the enemy of government on rational principles, of physical science,
of progress in morals, of all knowledge which tends to expose its fundamental fallacies. Its
theological dogmas are not only silly but immoral. The doctrines of hell, purgatory, and so
forth, are not 'mysteries,' but perfectly unintelligible nonsense, first representing God as
cruel and arbitrary, and then trying to evade the consequence by qualifications which make
the whole 'a clumsy piece of patchwork.' God the Father becomes a 'stern tyrant,' and God the
Son a 'passionate philanthropist.' Practically his experience has confirmed this sentiment.
He does 'really and truly love, at all events, a large section of mankind, though pride and
a love of saying sharp things have made me, I am sorry to say, sometimes write as if I did
not,' and whatever he has tried to do, he has found the Roman Catholic Church 'lying straight
across his path.' Men who are intellectually his inferiors and morally 'nothing at all extraordinary,'
have ordered him to take for granted their views upon law, morals, and philosophy, and when
he challenges their claim can only answer that he is wicked for asking questions.

He fully admits the beauty of some of the types of character fostered by the Roman Catholic
Church, although they imply a false view of certain Cardinal points of morality, and argues
that to some temperaments they may have a legitimate charm. But that does not diminish the
strength of his convictions that the dogmas are radically absurd and immoral, or that the whole
claim to authority is opposed to all rational progress. In the Manning articles he ends by
accepting the issue as between the secular view and the claims of a priesthood to authority.
In the last resort it is a question whether State or Church shall rule. He prefers the State,
because it has more rational aims, uses more appropriate means, has abler rulers, produces
verifiable results, and has generally 'less nonsense about it.' The clergy are 'male old maids';
often very clever, charitable, and of good intentions, but totally devoid of real wisdom or
force of mind or character, and capable on occasions of any amount of spite, falsehood, and
'gentle cruelty.' It is impossible to accept the claims of the priesthood to supernatural authority.
If ultimately a division has to be made, human reason will have to decide in what shape the
legal sanction, 'or, in other words, disciplined and systematic physical force,' shall be used.
We shall then come to the ultima ratio, after all compromises have been tried. There may be
an inevitable conflict. The permanent principles of nature and society, which are beyond all
laws, will decide the issue. But Manning's is a mere quack remedy.

This represents one aspect of Fitzjames's character. The struggle which is going on is a struggle
between priest and layman, mysticism and common sense, claims to supernatural authority and
clear downright reasoning from experience, and upon all grounds of theory and practice he is
unequivocally on the side of reason. I need only add a remark or two. In the first place, I
think that he never materially altered this position, but he was rather less inclined after
a time to take up the cudgels. He never lost a conviction of the importance of his 'sanction.'
He always held to the necessity of some kind of religious belief, although the precise dogma
to be maintained became rather more shadowy. But, as the discussion went on, he saw that in
practice his own standing-ground was becoming weaker. The tendency of men who were philosophically
on his own side was to regard the whole doctrine of a future life as not only beyond proof
but beyond all legitimate speculation. Hence he felt the force of the dilemma to which he was
exposed. A genuine religion, as he says in a remarkable letter, must be founded, like all knowledge,
on facts. Now the religions which include a theology rest on no facts which can stand criticism.
They are, therefore, doomed to disappear. But the religions which exclude theology--he mentions
Buddhism and Positivism as examples--give no adequate sanction. Hence, if theology goes, the
moral tone of mankind will be lowered. We shall become fiercer, more brutal, more sensual.
This, he admits, is a painful and even a revolting conclusion, and he therefore does not care
to enlarge upon it. He is in the position of maintaining that a certain creed is at once necessary
to the higher interests of mankind, and incapable of being established, and he leaves the matter
there.

I may just add, that Fitzjames cared very little for what may be called the scientific argument.
He was indifferent to Darwinism and to theories of evolution. They might be of historical interest,
but did not affect the main argument. The facts are here; how they came to be here is altogether
a minor question. Oddly enough, I find him expressing this opinion before the 'Origin of Species'
had brought the question to the front. Reviewing General Jacob's 'Progress of Being' in the
'Saturday Review 'of May 22, 1858, he remarks that the argument from development is totally
irrelevant. 'What difference can it make,' he asks, 'whether millions of years ago our ancestors
were semi-rational baboons?' This, I may add, is also the old-fashioned empirical view. Mill,
six years later, speaks of Darwin's speculations, then familiar enough, with equal indifference.
In this, as in other important matters, Fitzjames substantially adhered to his old views. To
many of us on both sides theories of evolution in one form or other seem to mark the greatest
advance of modern thought, or its most lamentable divergence from the true line. To Fitzjames
such theories seemed to be simply unimportant or irrelevant to the great questions. Darwin
was to his mind an ingenious person spending immense labour upon the habits of worms, or in
speculating upon what may have happened millions of years ago. What does it matter? Here we
are--face to face with the same facts. Fitzjames, in fact, agreed, though I fancy unconsciously,
with Comte, who condemned such speculations as 'otiose.' To know what the world was a billion
years ago matters no more than to know what there is on the other side of the moon, or whether
there is oxygen in the remotest of the fixed stars. He looked with indifference, therefore,
upon the application of such theories to ethical or political problems. The indication is,
I think, worth giving; but I shall say nothing as to my own estimate of the importance of the
theories thus disregarded.

VI. THE CRIMINAL CODE

I return to the sphere upon which Fitzjames spent his main energies, and in which, as I think,
he did his most lasting work. Three months of the spring of 1874 had been spent in consolidating
the laws relating to the government of India. About the same time, I may observe parenthetically,
he had a scheme for publishing his speeches in the Legislative Council; and, at one period,
hoped that Maine's might be included in the volume. The publishers, however, declined to try
this experiment upon the strength of the English appetite for Indian matters; and the book
was dropped. He returned for a time to the Contract Law; but must soon have given up the plan.
He writes on September 23, 1874, that Macmillan has applied to him for a new edition of his
'Criminal Law'; and that he has been reading for some time with a view to it. He has been labouring
through 3,000 royal 8vo. pages of 'Russell on Crimes.' They are full of irrelevant illustrations;
and the arrangement is 'enough to make one go crazy.' The 'plea of autrefois acquit comes at
the end of a chapter upon burglary'--a fact to make even the ignorant shudder! He would like
to put into his book a penal code, a code of criminal procedure, and an evidence code. 'I could
do it too if it were not too much trouble, and if a large part of the law were not too foolish
to be codified.' He is, however, so convinced of the impracticability of parliamentary help
or of a commission that he is much inclined to try. A fortnight later (October 8) he has resolved
to convert his second edition into a draft penal code and code of criminal procedure.

The work grew upon his hands.[168] He found crudities in the earlier work and a difficulty
in stating the actual law from the absence of any adequate or tolerably arranged text-book.
Hence he resolved to make such a book for himself, and to this task he devoted nearly all of
what he humorously called his leisure during the later part of 1874 and the whole of 1875 and
1876. Moreover, he thought for a time that it would be desirable to add full historical notes
in order to explain various facts of the law. These, however, were ultimately set aside and
formed materials for his later history. Thus the book ultimately took the form simply of a
'Digest of the Criminal Law,' with an explanatory introduction and notes upon the history of
some of the legal doctrines involved. It was published in the spring of 1877,[169] and, as
he says in a letter, it represented the hardest work he had ever done.

It coincided in part with still another hard piece of work. In December 1875 he was appointed
Professor of Common Law at the Inns of Court. He chose for the subject of his first course
of lectures the law of evidence. His Indian Code and the bill introduced by Coleridge in 1873
had made him thoroughly familiar with the minutiæ of the subject. Here again he was encountered
by the same difficulty in a more palpable shape. A lecturer naturally wishes to refer his hearers
to a text-book. But the only books to which he could refer his hearers filled thousands of
pages, and referred to many thousands of cases. The knowledge obtained from such books and
from continual practice in court may ultimately lead a barrister to acquire comprehensive principles,
or at least an instinctive appreciation of their application in particular cases. But to refer
a student to such sources of information would be a mockery. He wants a general plan of a district,
and you turn him loose in the forest to learn its paths by himself. Fitzjames accordingly set
to work to supply the want by himself framing a 'digest' of the English Law of Evidence. Here
was another case of 'boiling down,' with the difficulty that he has to expound a law--and often
an irrational law--instead of making such a law as seems to him expedient. He undoubtedly boiled
his materials down to a small size. The 'Digest' in a fourth edition contains 143 articles
filling 155 moderate pages, followed by a modest apparatus of notes. I believe that it has
been found practically useful, and an eminent judge has told me that he always keeps it by him.

Fitzjames held his office of professor until he became a judge in 1879. He had certainly one
primary virtue in the position. He invariably began his lecture while the clock was striking
four and ceased while it was striking five. He finally took leave of his pupils in an impressive
address when they presented him with a mass of violets and an ornamental card from the students
of each inn, with a kindly letter by which he was unaffectedly gratified. His class certainly
had the advantage of listening to a teacher who had the closest practical familiarity with
the working of the law, who had laboured long and energetically to extract the general principles
embedded in a vast mass of precedents and technical formulas, and who was eminently qualified
to lay them down in the language of plain common sense, without needless subtlety or affectation
of antiquarian knowledge. I can fully believe in the truth of Sir C. P. Ilbert's remark that
whatever the value of the codes in other respects, their educational value must be considerable.
They may convince students that law is not a mere trackless jungle of arbitrary rules to be
picked up in detail, but that there is really somewhere to be discovered a foundation of reason
and common sense. It was one of Fitzjames's favourite topics that the law was capable of being
thus exhibited; and that fifty years hence it would be a commonplace that it would be treated
in a corresponding spirit, and made a beautiful and instructive branch of science.

The publication of these two books marked a rise in his general reputation. In the introduction
to the 'Digest of the Criminal Law' he refers to the rejection of his 'Homicide Bill.' The
objections then assigned were equivalent to a challenge to show the possibility of codifying.
He had resolved to show the possibility by actually codifying 'as a private enterprise.' The
book must therefore be regarded as 'an appeal to the public at large' against the judgment
passed upon his undertaking by Parliament and by many eminent lawyers. He does not make the
appeal 'in a complaining spirit.' The subject, he thinks, 'loses nothing by delay,' and he
hopes that he has improved in this book upon the definitions laid down in his previous attempts.
In connection with this I may mention an article which he contributed to the 'Nineteenth Century'
for September 1879 upon a scheme for 'improving the law by private enterprise.' He suggests
the formation of a Council of 'legal literature,' to co-operate with the Councils for law-reporting
and for legal education. He sketches various schemes, some of which have been since taken up,
for improving the law and legal knowledge. Digests of various departments of the law might
be of great service as preparing the way for codification and illustrating defects in the existing
state of the law. He also suggests the utility of a translation of the year-books, the first
sources of the legal antiquary; a continuation of the State Trials, and an authentic collection
of the various laws of the British Empire. Sir C. P. Ilbert has lately drawn attention to the
importance of the last; and the new State Trials are in course of publication. The Selden Society
has undertaken some of the antiquarian researches suggested.

Meanwhile his codification schemes were receiving a fresh impulse. When preparing the 'Digest,'
he reflected that it might be converted into a penal code. He communicated this view to the
Lord Chancellor (Cairns) and to Sir John Holker (afterwards Lord Justice Holker), then Attorney-General.
He rejoiced for once in securing at last one real convert. Sir John Holker, he says, appreciated
the scheme with 'extraordinary quickness.' On August 2, 1877, he writes that he has just received
instructions from the Lord Chancellor to draw bills for a penal code, to which he was soon
afterwards directed to add a code of criminal procedure. He set to work, and traversed once
more the familiar ground. The 'Digest,' indeed, only required to be recast to be converted
into a code. The measure was ready in June and was introduced into Parliament by Sir John Holker
in the session of 1878. It was received favourably, and he reports that the Chancellor and
the Solicitor-General, as well as the Attorney-General, have become 'enthusiastic' in their
approbation. The House of Commons could not spare from more exciting occupations the time necessary
for its discussion. A Commission, however, was appointed, consisting of Lord Blackburn, Mr.
Justice Barry, Lord Justice Lush, and himself to go into the subject. The Commission sat from
November 1878 to May 1879, and signed a report, written by Fitzjames, on June 12, 1879. They
met daily for over five months, discussed 'every line and nearly every word of every section,'
carefully examined all the authorities and tested elaborately the completeness of the code.
The discussions, I gather, were not so harmonious as those in the Indian Council, and his letters
show that they sometimes tried his temper. The ultimate bill, however, did not differ widely
from the draft produced by Fitzjames, and he was glad, he says,[170] that these thorough discussions
brought to light no serious defect in the 'Digest' upon which both draft-codes were founded.
The report was too late for any action to be taken in the session of 1879. Cockburn wrote some
observations, to which Fitzjames (now a judge) replied in the 'Nineteenth Century' of January
1880. He was studiously courteous to his critic, with whom he had some agreeable intercourse
when they went the next circuit together. I do not know whether the fate of the measure was
affected by Cockburn's opinion. In any case the change of ministry in 1880 put an end to the
prospects of the code for the time. In 1882, to finish the story, the part relating to procedure
was announced as a Government measure in the Queen's speech. That, however, was its last sign
of life. The measure vanished in the general vortex which swallows up such things, and with
it vanished any hopes which Fitzjames might still entertain of actually codifying a part of
English law.

VII. ECCLESIASTICAL CASES

Fitzjames's professional practice continued to be rather spasmodic; important cases occurring
at intervals, but no steady flow of profitable work setting in. He was, however, sufficiently
prosperous to be able to retire altogether from journalism. The 'Pall Mall Gazette' during
his absence had naturally got into different grooves; he had ceased to sympathise with some
of its political views; and as he had not time to throw himself so heartily into the work,
he could no longer exercise the old influence. A few articles in 1874 and 1875 were his last
contributions to the paper. He felt the unsatisfactory nature of the employment. He calculates
soon afterwards that his collected works would fill some fifty volumes of the size of 'Liberty,
Equality, Fraternity,' and he is anxious to apply his energy to less ephemeral tasks. His profession
and his codes gave him work enough.

His most remarkable professional employment arose out of certain ecclesiastical cases. Sir
Francis Jeune, who was concerned in some of them, has kindly described his impressions to me.
Fitzjames's connection with certain prosecutions directed against the ritualists arose from
a conversation between Sir F. Jeune, who was then junior counsel to the English Church Union,
and its secretary the late Sir Charles Young. A counsel was required who should unite 'plenty
of courage' to an intimate knowledge of the Criminal Law and power of appreciating the results
of historical research. Fitzjames 'combined these requirements in a wonderful way.' Sir F.
Jeune makes reservations similar to those which I have had to notice in other applications,
as to Fitzjames's want of the subtlety and closeness of reasoning characteristic of the greatest
lawyers. He saw things 'rather broadly,' and his literary habits tended to distract him from
the precise legal point. 'I always thought of his mind,' says Sir Francis, 'as of a very powerful
telescope pulled out just a little too much.' The sharp definitions, perceptible sometimes
to inferior minds, were in his a little blurred. These peculiarities, however, were even advantages
in this special class of business. The precedents and principles involved were rather vague,
and much of the work within the province rather of the historian than of the lawyer. It involved
questions as to the spirit in which the articles and rubrics had been composed by their authors.
The requirement of 'courage' was amply satisfied. 'I shall never forget,' says Sir Francis,
'one occasion' in which Fitzjames was urged to take a course which he thought improper, though
it was not unnaturally desired by irritated clients fighting against what they considered to
be harsh legal restraint. Fitzjames at once made it clear that no client should make him deviate
from the path of professional propriety. He had, in fact, indignantly refused, as I find from
one of his letters, to adopt a position which implied distrust of the impartiality of the judges.

Of the cases themselves I must say generally that they often provoked a grim smile from the
advocate. When, in earlier days, he had defended Dr. Williams he had spoken not merely as an
advocate, but as a man who had felt that he was vindicating the intellectual liberty of the
Church of which he was a member. The cases in which he was now concerned could appeal to him
only as an advocate. The first in which he appeared, February 16, 1876, was sufficiently grotesque.[171]
A clergyman had refused to administer the sacrament to a gentleman who had published a volume
of 'Selections' from the Bible--implying, it was suggested, that he did not approve of the
part not selected--and who had his doubts about the devil. The clergyman was reported to have
said, 'Let him sit down and write a calm letter, and say he believes in the devil, and I will
give him the sacrament.' The only legitimate causes in a legal sense for refusing the sacrament
would be that a man was an 'open and notorious evil liver,' or a 'common and notorious depraver
of the Book of Common Prayer.' The Court of Arches apparently held that the gentleman came
under this description; but the Judicial Committee of the Privy Council, after hearing Fitzjames,
decided that he did not. A man might disbelieve in the devil, without being a 'notorious evil
liver,' however irrational may be his scepticism.

The most important of his appearances was in the Folkestone case.[172] His 'opening argument,
and even more his reply' (upon the appeal), 'were masterpieces, and they obtained from the
Privy Council a judgment in very marked contrast to those which had preceded it.' His argument,
as Sir F. Jeune thinks, induced the Privy Council to some extent 'to retrace, or at least seem
to retrace, its steps.' The judgment sanctioned what is known as the 'Eastern position,' and
certain other ritualistic practices. In another case,[173] it was decided, in accordance with
Fitzjames's argument, that a sculptured representation of the Crucifixion, as opposed to the
exhibition of a crucifix, was lawful.

Fitzjames, in his letters at this time, gives his own view pretty emphatically. While you,
he says to Lord Lytton, (I shall speak of this correspondence directly) 'are fighting with
famine in India, I am struggling over albs and chasubles, and superstitions not more reasonable
than those about Vishnu and Shiva.' 'I have been passionately labouring for the last nine days'
(he says a little later in regard to the Folkestone case) 'for the liberty of the clergy to
dress themselves in certain garments and stand in particular attitudes. All my powers of mind
and body were devoted to these important objects, till I dreamed of chasubles and wafers.'
Some years ago, he remarks, certain natives of India, having an interest in an appeal to the
Privy Council, caught an idiot and slew him on a hill-top as a sacrifice to the deity who presides
over the deliberations of that body. A being capable of being propitiated in that fashion might
take an interest in squabbles over wafers and chasubles. 'It is a foolish subject to joke about,'
he adds, 'for beyond all manner of doubt my clients' real object is to get as much idolatry
as possible into the poor old Church of England, and I believe that they will sooner or later
succeed in making the whole thing look absurd and breaking it up.' Whether that would be a
good thing or not is a matter upon which he feels unable to make up his mind.

Amid these various occupations, Fitzjames, however fully occupied, showed no symptoms of being
over-worked or over-worried. He had, in a remarkable degree, the power of taking up and dismissing
from his mind the matters in each of which he was alternately absorbed. He could throw himself
into codifying, or speculating, or getting up briefs at any moment and in any surroundings,
and dismiss each occupation with equal readiness. He found time, too, for a good deal of such
society as he loved. He heartily enjoyed little holiday tours, going occasionally to the Continent,
and more frequently to some of the friends to whom he always adhered and to whom he could pour
out his opinions frankly and fully. Maine was almost his next-door neighbour, and frequently
consulted him upon Indian matters. He took his Sunday walks with Carlyle; and he went to stay
with Froude, in whose society he especially delighted, in a summer residence in Devonshire.
He frequently visited his old friend Venables in Wales, and occasionally spent a few days with
members of his own family. Although ready to take up a bit of work, literary or professional,
at any moment, he never appeared to be preoccupied; and could discourse with the utmost interest
upon his favourite topics, though he sometimes calls himself 'unsociable'--by which he apparently
means that he cared as little as might be for the unsociable kind of recreation. He was a member
of the 'Cosmopolitan'; he belonged also to 'The Club' and to the 'Literary Society,' and he
heartily enjoyed meeting distinguished contemporaries. In 1874 he paid a visit to his friends
the Stracheys, who had taken for the summer a house at Anaverna, near Ravensdale, Co. Louth,
in Ireland. He liked it so much that he resolved to become their successor. He took the house
accordingly, and there spent his holidays in the summer of 1875 and the succeeding years so
long as his strength lasted.

Anaverna is a village about five miles of Dundalk, at the foot of a range of grassy hills rising
to a height of some 1,700 feet, within a well-wooded country below. The house stood in grounds
of about sixty acres, including a wood and traversed by a mountain-stream. Fitzjames enjoyed
walks over the hills, and, in the last years, drives in the lower country. To this place, and
the quiet life there, Fitzjames and his family became most warmly attached. His letters abound
in enthusiastic remarks about the scenery, and describe his pleasure in the intercourse with
neighbours of all classes, and in the visits of old friends who came to stay with him. A good
deal of his later writing was done there.

VIII. CORRESPONDENCE WITH LORD LYTTON

I have now to speak of a new friendship which played a very important part in his life from
this time. In January 1876, Lord Lytton[174] was appointed Governor-General of India. In February,
Fitzjames dined in his company at Lord Arthur Russell's. They went afterwards to the 'Cosmopolitan,'
and by the end of the evening had formed a close friendship, which was only to end with their
lives. Some of Fitzjames's friends were surprised at the singular strength of attachment between
two men so conspicuously different in mind and character. Some contrasts, as everyone observes,
rather facilitate than impede friendship; but in this case the opposition might seem to be
too decided. The explanation is not, I think, difficult. Lord Lytton, in the first place, was
a singularly charming person. He was not only a delightful companion, but he was delightful
because obviously open-hearted, enthusiastic, and exceedingly affectionate. To such charms
Fitzjames was no more obdurate than his fellows. Lord Lytton, it is true, was essentially a
man of letters; he was a poet and a writer of facile and brilliant prose; and Fitzjames acknowledged,
or rather claimed, a comparative insensibility to excellence of that kind. Upon some faults,
often combined with a literary temperament, he was perhaps inclined to be rather too severe.
He could feel nothing but hearty contempt for a man who lapped himself in æsthetic indulgences,
and boasted of luxurious indifference to the great problems of the day. Such an excess of sensibility,
again, as makes a man nervously unwilling to reveal his real thoughts, or to take part in a
frank discussion of principles, would be an obstacle to intimacy. Fitzjames might not improbably
decline to take the trouble necessary to soothe the vanity, or thaw the shyness of such a person,
and might perhaps too hastily set him down for a coward or a 'poor creature.' But when, as
was often the case, the sensitive person was encouraged to openness by Fitzjames's downright
ways, the implied compliment would be fully recognised. Lord Lytton, as an accomplished man
of the world, was of course free from any awkward bashfulness; and at the very first interview
was ready to meet Fitzjames half-way. His enthusiasm accordingly met with a rapid return. One
of Fitzjames's favourite assertions was that nobody but a humbug could deny the pleasantness
of flattery; and, in fact, I think that we all like it till we discover it to be flattery.
What he really meant was that he liked downright, open-hearted and perfectly sincere praise;
and both parties to this alliance could praise each other both sincerely and heartily.

There was, however, another reason which helps to explain the great value which Fitzjames attached
from the first to this intercourse. It comes out in almost every letter in his part of their
correspondence. Fitzjames calls himself 'self-contained'; and the epithet is quite appropriate
if it is taken as not implying any connotation of real selfishness. He was, that is, sufficient
for himself; he was contented so long as he could feel, as he always had a right to feel, that
he was doing his work thoroughly to the very best of his abilities. He could dispense with
much appreciation from outside, though it was unaffectedly welcome when it came from competent
persons. He had too much self-reliance to be dependent upon any endorsement by others. But,
though this might be perfectly true, he was at bottom sensitive enough, and it was also true
that he felt keenly certain consequences of his position. His professional career, as I have
so often said, had been a series of tantalising half-successes; he was always being baffled
by cross winds at the harbour-mouth. Although his courage never failed for an instant, he could
not but have a certain sense of isolation or want of support. This was especially true of the
codification schemes which occupied so much of his thought. He had been crying in the market-place
and no man heeded him. Yet his voice was powerful enough morally as well as physically. He
had the warmest of friends. Some of them were devoted to pursuits which had nothing to do with
law and could only express a vague general sympathy. They admired his general vigour, but were
not specially interested in the ends to which it was applied. Others, on the contrary, were
politicians and lawyers who could have given him effectual help. But they almost unanimously
refused to take his plans seriously. The British barrister and member of Parliament looked
upon codification as at best a harmless fancy. 'A jurist,' Fitzjames sometimes remarks in a
joke, which was not all joking, is a 'fool who cannot get briefs.' That represents the view
generally taken of his own energy. It was possibly admirable, certainly unobjectionable, but
not to the purpose. The statesman saw little chance of gaining votes by offers of a code, and
the successful lawyer was too much immersed in his briefs to care about investigating general
principles of law. At last, as I have said, Fitzjames got a disciple or two in high places,
but even then his most telling argument seems to have been less that codification was good
in itself than that success in passing a code would be a feather in the Government cap. Up
to 1876 he had not even got so far. Russell Gurney, indeed, had helped him, and Coleridge had
shown an interest in his work; but the general answer to his appeals was even more provoking
than opposition; it was the reply of stolid indifference.

In India his hands had been free. There he had really done a genuine and big stroke of work.
The contrast to English methods, and the failure of his attempts to drive his ideas into the
heads of any capable allies, had strengthened his antipathy to the home system, though it had
not discouraged him from work. But now at last he had made a real and enthusiastic convert;
and that convert a Governor-General, who would be able to become an effective agent in applying
his ideas. The longing for real sympathy, scarcely perhaps admitted even to himself, had been
always in existence, and its full gratification stimulated his new friendship to a rapid growth.
Lord Lytton left for India on March 1, 1876. Before he left, Fitzjames had already written
for him an elaborate exposition of the Indian administrative system, which Lytton compared
to a 'policeman's bull's-eye.' It lighted up the mysteries of Indian administration. Fitzjames
writes to him on the day of his departure: 'You have no conception of the pleasure which a
man like me feels in meeting with one who really appreciates and is willing to make use of
the knowledge which he has gained with great labour and much thought. I have had compliments
of all sorts till I have become almost sick of them, but you have paid me the one compliment
which goes straight to my heart--the compliment of caring to hear what I have to say and seeing
the point of it.' 'You have managed,' he afterwards says, 'to draw me out of my shell as no
one else ever did.' Three years later he still dwells upon the same point. You, he says (January
27, 1879) 'are the only prominent public man who ever understood my way of looking at things,
or thought it in the least worth understanding.' 'Others have taken me for a clever fellow
with dangerous views.' 'You have not only understood me, but, in your warm-hearted, affectionate
way, exaggerated beyond all measure the value of my sayings and doings. You have not, however,
exaggerated in the least my regard for you, and my desire to be of service to you.'

These words give the key-note of the correspondence, and may help to explain the rapid growth
and singular strength of the friendship between two men whose personal intercourse had been
limited to less than a month. Fitzjames threatened, and the 'threat' was fully executed, to
become a voluminous correspondent. I cannot say, indeed, which correspondent wrote most frankly
and abundantly. The letter from which I have quoted the last passage is in answer to one from
Lord Lytton, filling thirty sheets, written, as he says, 'in a hurry,' but, as Fitzjames declares,
with 'only two slips of the pen, without an "erasure," in a handwriting which fills me with
helpless admiration,' and in a style which cannot be equalled by any journalist in England.
'And this you do by way of amusing yourself while you are governing an empire in war-time,'
and yet compliment me for writing at leisure moments during my vacations! Fitzjames, however,
does his best to keep pace with his correspondent. Some of his letters run to fourteen and
fifteen sheets; and he snatches intervals from worrying labours on his codes, or on the bench
or on commissions, or sitting up at nights, to pour out discourses which, though he wrote very
fast, must often have taken a couple of hours to set down. The correspondence was often very
confidential. Some of Lytton's letters had to be kept under lock and key or put in the fire
for safer guardianship. Lytton had a private press at which some of his correspondent's letters
were printed, and Fitzjames warns him against the wiles of editors of newspapers in a land
where subordinates are not inaccessible to corruption. It would, however, not be in my power,
even if I had the will, to reveal any secrets of state. Fitzjames's letters indeed (I have
not seen Lord Lytton's), so far as they are devoted to politics, deal mainly with general considerations.

It would be idle to go far into these matters now. It is indeed sad to turn over letters, glowing
with strong convictions as well as warm affection and showing the keenest interest in the affairs
of the time, and to feel how completely they belong to the past. Some of the questions discussed
might no doubt become interesting again at any moment; but for the present they belong to the
empire of Dryasdust. Historians will have to form judgments of the merits of Lord Lytton's
policy in regard to Afghanistan; but I cannot assume that my readers will be hankering for
information as to the special views taken at the time by a man who was, after all, a spectator
at some distance. I therefore give fair warning to historical inquirers that they will get
no help from me.

When the earlier letters were written the Afghan troubles had not become acute. Fitzjames deals
with a variety of matters, some of which, as he of course recognises, lie beyond his special
competence. He writes at considerable length, for example, upon the depreciation of the rupee,
though he does not profess to be an economist. He gives his views as to the right principles
not only of civil, but of military organisation; and discusses with great interest the introduction
of natives into the civil service. 'In the proper solution of that question,' he says, 'lies
the fate of the empire.' Our great danger is the introduction of a 'hidebound' and mechanical
administrative system worked by third-rate Europeans and denationalised natives. It is therefore
eminently desirable to find means of employing natives of a superior class, though the precise
means must be decided by men of greater special experience. He writes much, again, upon the
famine in Madras, in regard to which he had many communications with his brother-in-law, Cunningham,
then Advocate-General of the Presidency. He was strongly impressed by the vast importance of
wise precautions against the future occurrence of such calamities.

Naturally, however, he dilates most fully upon questions of codification, and upon this head
his letters tend to expand into small state-papers. Soon after Lord Lytton's departure there
was some talk of Fitzjames's resuming his old place upon the retirement of Lord Hobhouse, by
whom he had been succeeded. It went so far that Maine asked him to state his views for the
information of Lord Salisbury. Fitzjames felt all his old eagerness. 'The prospect,' he says,
'of helping you and John Strachey to govern an empire,' and to carry out schemes which will
leave a permanent mark upon history, is 'all but irresistibly attractive.' He knew, indeed,
in his heart that it was impossible. He could not again leave his family, the elder of whom
were growing beyond childhood, and accept a position which would leave him stranded after another
five years. He therefore returned a negative, though he tried for a time to leave just a loophole
for acceptance in case the terms of the tenure could be altered. In fact, however, there could
be no real possibility of return, and Mr. Whitley Stokes succeeded to the appointment. Towards
the end of Lord Lytton's governorship there was again some talk of his going out upon a special
mission in regard to the same subject. But this, too, was little more than a dream, though
he could not help 'playing with' the thought for a time.

Meanwhile he corresponded with Lord Lytton upon various measures. He elaborately annotated
the drafts of at least one important bill; he submitted remarks to be laid before the Council
at Lord Lytton's request, and finally he wrote an elaborate minute upon codification generally.
I need only say that, in accordance with what he had said in his last speeches at Calcutta,
he held that nearly enough had been done in the way of codifying for India. He insists, too,
upon the danger of dealing with certain branches of legislation, where the codification might
tend to introduce into India the subtleties and intricacies of some points of English law.
Part of this correspondence was taking place during the exciting events in Afghanistan; and
he then observes that after all codification is 'only a luxury,' and must for the present give
way to more important matters.

Fitzjames, of course, followed the development of the Government policy in regard to Russia
and the Afghans with extreme interest. He looked with contempt upon the various fluctuations
of popular sentiment at the period of the Bulgarian atrocities, and during the Russian war
with Turkey; and he expresses very scanty respect for the policy of the English Government
at that period. He was occasionally tempted to take to his old warfare in the press; but he
had resolved to give up anonymous journalism. He felt, too, that such articles would give the
impression that they were inspired by the Indian Government; and he thought it better to reserve
himself for occasions on which he could appear openly in his own person. Such occasions offered
themselves more than once, and he seized them with all his old vigour.

A speech made by Bright provoked the first noticeable utterance. Fitzjames wrote two letters
to the 'Times,' which appeared December 27, 1877, and January 4, 1878, with the heading 'Manchester
in India.' Bright represented the political school which he most detested. According to Bright
(or Fitzjames's version of Bright, which was, I dare say, accurate), the British rule in India
was the result of 'ambition, conquest, and crime.' We owed, therefore, a heavy debt to the
natives; and, instead of paying it, we kept up a cumbrous system of government, which provided
for members of the British upper classes, and failed to promote the material welfare of our
subjects. The special instance alleged was the want of proper irrigation. To this Fitzjames
replied in his first letter that we had, in fact, done as much as could be done, and possibly
more than was judicious; and he accuses his antagonist of gross ignorance of the facts. His
wrath, however, was really aroused by the moral assumptions involved. Bright, he thought, represented
the view of the commonplace shopkeeper, intensified by the prejudices of the Quaker. To him
ambition and conquest naturally represented simple crimes. Ambition, reports Fitzjames, is
the incentive to 'all manly virtues'; and conquest an essential factor in the building up of
all nations. We should be proud, not ashamed, to be the successors of Clive and Warren Hastings
and their like. They and we are joint architects of the bridge by which India has passed from
being a land of cruel wars, ghastly superstitions, and wasting plague and famine, to be at
least a land of peace, order, and vast possibilities. The supports of the bridge are force
and justice. Force without justice was the old scourge of India; but justice without force
means the pursuit of unattainable ideals. He speaks 'from the fulness of his heart,' and impressed
by the greatest sight he had ever seen.

Fitzjames kept silence for a time, though it was a grief to him, but he broke out again in
October 1878, during the first advance into Afghanistan. Party feeling was running high, and
Fitzjames had to encounter Lord Lawrence, Lord Northbrook, Sir W. Harcourt, and other able
antagonists. He mentions that he wrote his first letter, which fills more than two columns
of the 'Times,' four times over. I should doubt whether he ever wrote any other such paper
twice. The sense of responsibility shown by this excessive care led him also to confine himself
to a single issue, upon which he could speak most effectively, out of several that might be
raised. He will not trespass upon the ground of military experts, but, upon the grounds of
general policy, supports a thesis which goes to the root of the matter. The advance of the
Russian power in Central Asia makes it desirable for us to secure a satisfactory frontier.
The position of the Russians, he urges, is analogous to our own position in India in the days
of Wellesley. It is idle to denounce them for acting as we acted; but it is clear that the
two empires will ultimately become conterminous; and it is, therefore, essential for us that
the dividing line should be so drawn as to place us in perfect security. Though Fitzjames declined
to draw any specific moral, his antagonists insisted upon drawing one for him. He must be meaning
to insinuate that we were to disregard any rights of the Afghans which might conflict with
our alleged interests.

This point was touched in a letter by Lord Lawrence, to which Fitzjames felt bound to reply.
He was reluctant to do so, because he was on terms of personal friendship with Lawrence, whose
daughter had recently become the wife of Henry Cunningham. 'I have seldom,' says Fitzjames
(October 4, 1877), 'met a more cheery, vivacious, healthy-minded old hero.' Lawrence, he is
glad to think, took a fancy to him, and frequently poured himself out abundantly upon Indian
topics. Their friendship, happily, was not interrupted by the controversy, in which Fitzjames
was scrupulously respectful. This, again, raised the old question about International Law,
which Fitzjames, as a good Austinian, regarded mainly as a figment. The moral point, however,
is the only one of general interest. Are we bound to treat semi-barbarous nations on the same
terms as we consider to govern our relations with France or Germany? Or are we morally entitled
to take into account the fact that they are semi-barbarous? Fitzjames's view may be briefly
defined. He repudiates emphatically the charge of immorality. He does not hold the opinion
imputed to him by his antagonists that we may take what territory we please, regardless of
the interests of barbarous natives. He repeats his assertion that our rule rests upon justice
as well as force. He insists upon the same point, I may add, in his private letters to Lytton,
and declares that it is even more important to be straightforward and to keep our word sacredly
with Afghans than with civilised races. He writes very warmly upon the danger of exacting excessive
punishment for the murder of Cavagnari. We ought to prove to the natives that our rule is superior
to theirs, and that we are strong enough to keep our heads and be merciful even in the face
of insults. But then, we have to act upon our own conceptions of morality, and must not be
hampered by regarding nations as fictitious persons with indisputable rights. When we have
to do with semi-savages, we may have to enforce our own views upon them by the strong hand.
Some one, for example, had maintained that the eighth commandment forbade us to interfere with
independent tribes; Fitzjames observes (December 25, 1878) that they have just the same right
to be independent as the Algerine pirates to infest the Straits of Gibraltar. A parcel of thieves
and robbers who happen to have got hold of the main highway of the world have not, therefore,
a right to hold it against all comers. If we find it necessary to occupy the passes, we shall
have to give them a lesson on the eighth commandment. Nobody will ever persuade him that any
people, excepting 'a few strapping fellows between twenty and forty,' really prefer cruel anarchy
and a life of murder and plunder to peace and order. Nor will anyone persuade him that Englishmen,
backed by Sikhs and Ghoorkas, could not, if necessary, reduce the wild tribes to order, and
'sow the first seeds of civilisation' in the mountains.

To some people it may seem that the emphasis is laid too much upon force and too little upon
justice. I am only concerned to say that Fitzjames's whole theory is based upon the view--sufficiently
expounded already--that force, order, and justice require a firm basis of 'coercion'; and that,
while we must be strictly just, according to our own views of justice, we must not allow our
hands to be tied by hollow fictions about the 'rights' of races really unfit for the exercise
of the corresponding duties. On this ground, he holds it to be possible to have an imperial
'policy which shall yet be thoroughly unjingo-like.'

Upon this I need insist no further. I shall only say that he always regarded the British rule
in India as the greatest achievement of the race; that he held it to be the one thoroughly
satisfactory bit of work that we were now doing; and, further, that he held Lytton to be a
worthy representative of our true policy. A letter which strikingly illustrates his enthusiasm
was written in prospect of the great durbar at Delhi when the Queen was proclaimed Empress
of India (January 1, 1877). No man, he thinks (September 6, 1876), ever had before or ever
will have again so splendid an opportunity for making a great speech and compressing into a
few words a statement of the essential spirit of the English rule, satisfactory at once to
ourselves and to our subjects. 'I am no poet,' he says, 'as you are, but Delhi made my soul
burn within me, and I never heard "God save the Queen" or saw the Union Jack flying in the
heart of India without feeling the tears in my eyes, which are not much used to tears.' He
becomes poetical for once; he applies the lines of 'that feeble poem Maud' to the Englishmen
who are lying beneath the Cashmire Gate, and fancies that we could say of Hastings and Clive,
and many another old hero, that their hearts must 'start and tremble under our feet, though
they have lain for a century dead.' Then he turns to his favourite 'Christmas Hymn,' and shows
how, with certain easy emendations, Milton's announcement of the universal peace, when the
'Kings sate still with awful eye,' might be applied to the Pax Britannica in India. He afterwards
made various suggestions, and even wrote a kind of tentative draft, from which he was pleased
to find that Lytton accepted some suggestions. A rather quaint suggestion of a similar kind
is discussed in a later letter. Why should not a 'moral text-book' for Indian schools be issued
in the Queen's name? It might contain striking passages from the Bible, the Koran, and the
Vedas about the Divine Being; with parables and impressive precepts from various sources; and
would in time, he thinks, produce an enormous moral effect. In regard to Lytton himself, he
was never tired of expressing the warmest approbation. He sympathises with him even painfully
during the anxious times which followed the murder of Cavagnari. He remarks that, what with
famine and currency questions and Afghan troubles, Lytton has had as heavy a burthen to bear
as Lord Canning during the mutiny. He has borne it with extraordinary gallantry and cool judgment,
and will have a place beside Hastings and Wellesley and Dalhousie. He will come back with a
splendid reputation, both as a statesman and a man of genius, and it will be in his power to
occupy a unique position in the political world.

Fitzjames's letters abound with such assurances, which were fully as sincere as they were cordial.
I must also say that he shows his sincerity on occasions by frankly criticising some details
of Lytton's policy, and by discharging the still more painful duty of mentioning unfavourable
rumours as to his friend's conduct as Viceroy. The pain is obviously great, and the exultation
correspondingly marked, when Lytton's frank reply convinces him that the rumours were merely
the echo of utterly groundless slander. I will only add that the letters contain, as might
be expected, some downright expressions of disapproval of some persons, though never without
sufficient reason for speaking his mind; and that, on the other hand, there are equally warm
praises of the many friends whom he heartily admired. He can never speak warmly enough of Sir
John Strachey, Sir Robert Egerton, and others, in whom he believed with his usual fervour.
Fitzjames's belief in his friends and his estimate of their talents and virtues was always
of the most cordial. I will quote a few phrases from one of his letters, because they refer
to a friendship which I shall elsewhere have no opportunity of mentioning. Alfred Lyall, he
says, 'is one of the finest fellows I ever knew in my life. If you cultivate him a little you
will find him a man of more knowledge, more imagination (in the lofty and eminently complimentary
sense of the word), more intelligent interest in the wonders of India, than almost anyone else
in the country.' 'I talked to him last Sunday for nearly two hours incessantly on Indian matters
and on religion and morals, and left off at last only because I could not walk up and down
any longer in common duty to my wife, who was waiting dinner. It will be, as Byron says of
Pope, a sin and a shame and a damnation if you and he don't come together. He is the one man
(except Maine) I ever met who seemed to me to see the splendour of India, the things which
have made me feel what I have so often said to you about it, and which make me willing and
eager to do anything on earth to help you.'

I have dwelt at length upon these letters, because they seem to me eminently characteristic,
and partly also because they explain Fitzjames's feelings at the time. He was becoming more
and more conscious of his separation from the Liberal party. 'Why are you,' asked one of his
friends, who was a thorough partisan, 'such a devil in politics?' It was because he was becoming
more and more convinced that English political life was contemptible; that with some it was
like a 'cricket-match'--a mere game played without conviction for the sake of place or honour;
that even where there were real convictions, they were such as could be adapted to the petty
tastes of the vulgar and commonplace part of society; and that it was pitiable to see a body
of six or seven hundred of the ablest men in the country occupied mainly in thwarting each
other, making rational legislation impossible, and bowing more and more before the 'sons of
Zeruiah,' who would be too strong for them in the end. For behind all this was arising a social
and religious revolution, the end of which could be foreseen by no one. I dread, he says, the
spread of my own opinions. The whole of society seems to be exposed to disintegrating influences.
Young men have ceased to care for theology at all. He quotes a phrase which he has heard attributed
to a very clever and amiable undergraduate whose tutor had spoken to him about going to chapel.
If, said the pupil, there be really such a deity as you suppose, it appears to me that to praise
him would be impertinent and to pray to him superfluous. What is to happen when such opinions
are generally spread, and when the populace discovers that their superiors do not really hold
the creeds which they have declared to be essential to society?

IX. APPOINTMENT TO A JUDGESHIP

Meanwhile, Fitzjames had been receiving various proofs of rising reputation. In January 1877
he was made K.C.S.I. He expresses his pleasure at having the name of India thus 'stamped upon
him'; and speaks of the very friendly letter in which Lord Salisbury had announced the honour,
and of his gratitude for Lord Lytton's share in procuring it. The University of Oxford gave
him the honorary D.C.L. degree in 1878. He was member of a Commission upon fugitive slaves
in 1876, and of a Commission upon extradition in 1878.[175] He was also a member of the Copyright
Commission appointed in October 1875, which reported in 1878. He agreed with the majority and
contributed a digest of the law of copyright. He had occasional reasons to expect an elevation
to the bench; but was as often disappointed. Upon the death of Russell Gurney (May 31, 1878)
there was some talk of his becoming Recorder of London; but he did not much regret the speedy
disappearance of this prospect, though it had its attractions. He was three times (1873, 1877,
and 1878) appointed to act as judge upon circuit. When at last he was entrusted with the preparation
of the Criminal Code in 1877, the Attorney-General expressed the opinion that a satisfactory
execution of the task would entitle him to a judgeship, but could not give any definite pledge.
When, however, in July 1878, it was determined to appoint a Commission to prepare a code for
Parliament, Fitzjames said that he would be unable to undertake a laborious duty which would
make practice at the bar impossible for the time, without some assurance of a judgeship. The
Chancellor thereupon wrote a letter, which, though an explicit promise could not be made, virtually
amounted to a promise. In accordance with this he was appointed on January 3, 1879, to a judgeship
which had become vacant by the resignation of Sir Anthony Cleasby. A notorious journalist asserted
that the promise had been made on consideration of his writing in the papers on behalf of the
Indian Government. The statement is only worth notice as an ingenious inversion of the truth.
So far from requiring any external impulse to write on Lytton's behalf, Fitzjames could hardly
refrain from writing when its expediency was doubtful. When the occasion for a word in season
offered itself, hardly any threats or promises could have induced him to keep silence. 'Judge
or no judge,' he observes more than once, 'I shall be forced to write' if certain contingencies
present themselves.

I give the letter in which he announced his appointment to his sister-in-law (January 4, 1879):--'My
dearest Emily, I write to tell you that I am out of all my troubles. Cleasby has unexpectedly
resigned, and I am to succeed him. I know how this news will delight you, and I hasten to send
it, though I hope to see you to-morrow. It gives me a strange, satisfied, and yet half-pathetic
feeling. One great battle is won, and one great object obtained; and now I am free to turn
my mind to objects which have long occupied a great part of it, so far as my leisure will allow.
I hope I have not been anxious to any unworthy or unmanly extent about the various trials which
are now over.

'In such moments as this, one's heart turns to those one loves. Dearest Emily, may all good
attend you, and may I and mine be able to do our shares towards getting you the happiness you
so pre-eminently deserve. I don't know what to wish for; but I wish for all that is best and
most for your good in the widest sense which the word can have. Ever your loving brother, J. F. S.'

       *       *       *       *       *

In giving the news to Lord Lytton, he observes that he feels like a man who has got into a
comfortable carriage on a turnpike road after scrambling over pathless mountain ranges. His
business since his return has been too irregular and capricious to allow him to feel himself
at his ease. That being over, he is resolved to make the bench a 'base of operations' and 'not
a mere shelf.'

The hint about 'leisure' in the letter to Lady Egerton will be understood. Leisure in his mouth
meant an opportunity for doing more than his duties required. He calculated on a previous occasion
that, if he were a judge, he should have at his disposal three or, by good management, four
working hours at his own disposal. I find him, characteristically enough, observing in an article
of about the same date that the puisne judges have quite enough work without imposing any extra
labour whatever upon them. But he tacitly assumed that he was to carry a double burthen. How
he turned his time to account will appear directly. I need only say here that he unfeignedly
enjoyed his new position. He often said that he could imagine nothing more congenial to all
his wishes. He observes frequently that the judicial work is the only part of our administrative
system which is still in a thoroughly satisfactory state. He felt as one who had got into a
safe place of refuge, from which he could look out with pity upon those who were doomed to
toil and moil, in an unhealthy atmosphere, as politicians, public officials, and journalists.
He could learn to be philosophical even about the fate of his penal code.

NOTE

***My nephew, Sir Herbert Stephen, has kindly sent me the enclosed note in regard to my brother's
life in Ireland.

                                           L. S.

     In 1869 my father took for the long vacation a house called
     Dromquina, on the northern bank of the Kenmare River, about three
     miles from Kenmare. The 'river' is an arm of the sea, something
     like forty miles long, and at Dromquina, I suppose, not above half
     a mile wide. He had heard of the place by reason of his friend, Mr.
     Froude, living at that time at Lord Lansdowne's house, Derreen, in
     Killmakalogue Harbour, about fifteen miles lower down on the
     opposite shore. In a thickly populated country this would not
     constitute a near neighbourhood, but we made excursions to Derreen,
     either in a boat or in Mr. Froude's yacht, several times in the
     course of the summer. It is in the neighbourhood of the Kenmare
     River and Bantry Bay that Mr. Froude laid the scene of 'The Two
     Chiefs of Dunboy.'

     Dromquina stands close to the water's edge, and we had several
     boats and the services of some half-dozen fishermen at our command.
     My father had learnt to row at Eton, and during this summer he
     always took an oar--and did good service with it--upon our frequent
     excursions on the water. I remember, by the way, that many years
     later, after he had been for some time a judge, he was one day
     rowing in a boat with a party of friends on the Thames, and was
     much gratified by my telling him what hard work I had found it,
     while steering, to keep the boat straight, because he pulled so
     much harder than the man who was rowing bow, a sturdy athlete,
     twenty years his junior, but no waterman.

     He liked the life at Dromquina so much that in 1873, after his
     return from India, he took the Bishop of Limerick's house,
     Parknasilla, in Sneem Harbour, just opposite Derreen. That year, if
     I remember right, he took some shooting, to which we had to drive a
     considerable distance. In one year or the other I went out shooting
     with him two or three times. I do not think he ever had any
     shooting later: though, considering how little practice he can have
     had, he was a decidedly good shot. The country was rough, and the
     bags, though not heavy in quantity--we were lucky if we saw ten
     brace of grouse--presented a rather extensive variety of kind.
     During these two summers my father indulged himself freely in his
     favourite amusement of taking long walks, but also did a good deal
     of rowing and sailing. He had had my brothers and me taught to swim
     in a previous summer at the sea-side, and at Dromquina decided that
     we ought to be able to swim confidently in our clothes. In order to
     test our possession of this accomplishment, he one day took us out
     himself in a boat, and told me to sit on the gunwale, after which
     he artfully engaged me in conversation until he saw that I was not
     expecting my plunge, when he suddenly shoved me overboard. We all
     passed the ordeal with credit.

     In 1873 he meditated building a house on the Kenmare River, but in
     the course of that summer he went to visit Sir John Strachey, who
     was then living at Anaverna House, at Ravensdale in County Louth.
     The Stracheys left it not long after, and we went there for the
     first time in 1875. Some years later my father took a lease of it,
     and there he spent every long vacation till 1891 inclusive, and the
     greater part of 1892.

     For this place my father in particular, as well as his family
     generally, had from the first a strong affection. The house stands
     rather high, on the extreme southern slope of the Mourne Mountains,
     just within the border of the county of Louth and the province of
     Leinster. Behind and above the house to the north, the 'mountains'
     (moors varying in height from 1,000 to 2,700 feet) stretch for many
     miles, enclosing the natural harbour known as Carlingford Lough.
     Southwards there is a view across a comparatively level plain as
     far as the Wicklow Mountains, just beyond Dublin, and about sixty
     miles away. The sea is visible at no great distance on the east,
     and on fine days we could always see the Isle of Man, about eighty
     miles to the north-east, from any of several hill-tops within an
     hour's walk of the house. My father was therefore able to take to
     his heart's content the long walks that had always been his
     favourite amusement. He also devoted himself with the greatest
     enthusiasm to the improvement of the house and grounds. For many
     years before the Stracheys' short tenancy it had been unoccupied,
     and the grounds--of which there were about seventy acres--were at
     first very much overgrown, especially with laurels, which, when
     neglected, grow in that country in almost disgusting luxuriance. My
     father therefore occupied himself a good deal with amateur
     forestry, and became, considering that he first turned his
     attention to the subject at the age of forty-six, a rather expert
     woodsman. A good deal of tree-felling was necessary, both in the
     interest of the trees and for the improvement of the views from the
     house and its immediate neighbourhood. My father had a Canadian
     axe, given to him by Frederick Gibbs, of which he was extremely
     fond, and with which he did a great deal of work. He was never
     reduced to cutting down a tree merely for exercise, but always
     first satisfied himself with much care that its removal would be an
     improvement. Another point in his wood-cutting that I always
     admired was that, when the more amusing part of the
     operation--which is cutting the tree down--was over, he invariably
     took personally his full share of the comparatively uninteresting
     work of sawing up the trunk, and disposing in an orderly manner of
     the branches. He also took great pains to cut his trees as close to
     the ground as possible, so as not to sacrifice the good timber at
     the butt, or leave a tall or ragged stump to disfigure the ground
     afterwards.

     Another labour in which he took much interest was the making of
     paths through a little wood running up the hill-side behind the
     house, and the engineering of a stream which descended through it,
     and, being flooded two or three times every year, required a good
     deal of management, the more so as the house was supplied by it
     with water through an artificial streamlet made for the purpose. In
     these pursuits my father was always assisted by the village
     post-master, an old man named Morton, of picturesque appearance and
     conversation, and the consultations between the two used to be full
     of interest. Morton spoke with a strong brogue, and combined
     several other pursuits with that of post-master, the universality
     of his aptitudes making him an interesting companion, and my father
     had a great regard for him. He died a few months ago, being then, I
     believe, over eighty years of age.

     Another out-door amusement that my father enjoyed was shooting at a
     mark with a Snider rifle. The nature of the grounds made it easy to
     get a safe hundred yards' range within three minutes' walk of the
     front door, and three or four hundred yards by going a little
     farther. We practised in this way pretty often, and I think the
     judge was, on the whole, a better shot than any of his sons. In the
     year 1883 the household was increased, a good deal to my father's
     annoyance, by two policemen. At the Liverpool summer Assizes he had
     tried a gang of dynamiters, I think for treason-felony. They, or
     most of them, were convicted and sentenced to long terms of penal
     servitude. Some of my father's friends, not understanding that if
     anybody wanted to murder him it was quite as likely to be done, and
     quite as easy to do, in England as in Ireland, and perhaps
     entertaining the fantastic idea that the population of Louth had
     more regard for dynamiters than the population of London, suggested
     to the Irish Government that he was in some danger. The only thing
     that could be done was to order police protection, and this Sir
     George Trevelyan did. Accordingly two constables took up their
     abode in a room which happened to be available in the stable-yard,
     and mounted guard all day over the hall-door, following my father
     wherever he went during the day. Though their continued escort
     troubled him a good deal, there was no escape from it, and he got
     used to it to some extent. He made great friends with the men
     personally--like other people, he had the highest admiration for
     the force to which they belonged--and sometimes challenged them to
     a shooting match, either with their own rifles or with his, and was
     much gratified when he got the better of them.

     With the people generally he became after a time extremely popular.
     I say after a time, because the inhabitants of that country do not,
     any more than country people in most parts of England, take
     strongly to strangers before they know anything about them. They
     never showed the least disposition to incivility, but for the first
     year or two my father had not many acquaintances among them. Later
     he came to be well known, and when he was taking his walks in the
     fields or on the mountains, there was hardly a man for a good many
     miles round who did not hail him by name. I have known them shout
     across two fields, 'It's a fine evening, Sir James'; and when they
     did so he invariably stopped and entered into conversation about
     the crops and the weather, or other topics of universal interest.
     With some of them whom he had frequently met while walking, or whom
     he had helped with advice or small loans (about the repayment of
     which they were, to his great delight, singularly honest), he was
     on particularly friendly terms, and made a point of visiting them
     in their houses at least once every year. They have remarkably good
     manners, and attracted him particularly by their freedom from
     awkwardness, and their combination of perfect politeness with
     complete self-respect. I have reason to know that they have not
     forgotten him.

     He once made a short expedition with one of my sisters to Achill,
     Clifden, and Galway. They stayed two nights at Achill, which
     sufficed for him to make friends with Mr. Sheridan, the landlord of
     the inn there. They never met again, but there were communications
     between them afterwards which showed that my father retained as
     long as he lived a kindly recollection of the people he had met in
     that particular holiday.

     It was naturally during the summer holidays, and when one of us
     used to go circuit as his marshal, that my brothers and I saw most
     of him. I think that during the years of his judgeship I came to
     know all his opinions, and share most of them. One result of his
     strong memory, and the immense quantity of talking and reading that
     he had done in his life, was that he was never at a loss for
     conversation. But to attempt to give an idea of what his intimate
     talk was like when he conversed at his ease about all manner of men
     and things is not my business. It was, of course, impossible to
     live in the house with him without being impressed by his
     extraordinary industry. The mere bulk of the literary work he did
     at Anaverna would make it a surprising product of fifteen long
     vacations, and there was not a page of it which had not involved an
     amount of arduous labour which most men would regard as the
     antithesis of holiday-making. This, however, as the present
     biography will have shown, was his normal habit, and these notes
     are designed to indicate that it did not prevent him from enjoying,
     when away from books and pens and ink, a happy and vigorous life.

FOOTNOTES:

[Footnote 119: The first volume of his Civilization in Europe appeared in 1857.]

[Footnote 120: Mill elaborately argues that the social sciences are possible precisely because
the properties of the society are simply the sum of the properties of the individuals of which
it is composed. His view of the importance of this theory is given in his Autobiography (first
edition), p. 260. And see especially his Logic, Bk. vi. chap. vii.]

[Footnote 121: Liberty, Equality, Fraternity, p. 212. (My references are to the second edition.)]

[Footnote 122: P. 17.]

[Footnote 123: P. 10. This is almost literally from Bentham, who gives several similar classifications
of 'sanctions.']

[Footnote 124: P. 19.]

[Footnote 125: P. 183.]

[Footnote 126: P. 184.]

[Footnote 127: Pp. 32, 112.]

[Footnote 128: P. 244.]

[Footnote 129: Pp. 193, 195.]

[Footnote 130: P. 30.]

[Footnote 131: P. 239.]

[Footnote 132: P. 184.]

[Footnote 133: P. 96.]

[Footnote 134: P. 140.]

[Footnote 135: P. 139.]

[Footnote 136: P. 162.]

[Footnote 137: P. 177.]

[Footnote 138: P. 169.]

[Footnote 139: P. 58.]

[Footnote 140: P. 82.]

[Footnote 141: P. 84. The quotation is not quite accurate.]

[Footnote 142: Pp. 105-107.]

[Footnote 143: P. 109.]

[Footnote 144: P. 92. In the first edition the 'ignorant preacher' was a 'wretched little curate.'
A rougher but more graphic phrase.]

[Footnote 145: There is here a discussion as to the relations between 'justice' and 'utility'
upon which Fitzjames agreed with Mill. I dissent from both, and think that Fitzjames would
have been more consistent had he agreed with me. I cannot, however, here try to unravel a rather
knotty point.]

[Footnote 146: P. 232.]

[Footnote 147: P. 334.]

[Footnote 148: P. 125.]

[Footnote 149: P. 69.]

[Footnote 150: P. 370.]

[Footnote 151: P. 294.]

[Footnote 152: P. 300.]

[Footnote 153: P. 288.]

[Footnote 154: P. 300.]

[Footnote 155: I repeat that I do not ask whether his interpretation be correct.]

[Footnote 156: Pp. 49-60.]

[Footnote 157: P. 302.]

[Footnote 158: P. 287.]

[Footnote 159: P. 132.]

[Footnote 160: P. 75.]

[Footnote 161: P. 295.]

[Footnote 162: P. 343.]

[Footnote 163: P. 354.]

[Footnote 164: Bain's J. S. Mill, p. 111.]

[Footnote 165: Digest of Law of Evidence, preface.]

[Footnote 166: I have to thank Mr. A. H. Millar, of Dundee, for some papers and recollections
referring to this election.]

[Footnote 167: They were substantially republished in the Contemporary Review for December
1873 and January 1874.]

[Footnote 168: See prefaces to History of the Criminal Law and to the Digest of the Criminal Law.]

[Footnote 169: The introduction is dated April 1877.]

[Footnote 170: Preface to History of Criminal Law.]

[Footnote 171: 'Jenkins v. Cook,' Law Reports, Probate Division, i. 80-107.]

[Footnote 172: 'Clifton v. Ridsdale,' Law Reports, Probate Division, i. 316-367; and ii. 276-353.]

[Footnote 173: 'Hughes v. Edwards,' Law Reports, Probate Division, ii. 361-371.]

[Footnote 174: B. November 8, 1831. d. November 24, 1891.]

[Footnote 175: Some account of the reports of these Commissions is given in the History of
Criminal Law, ii. 45-58, 65-72. The Fugitive Slave Commission was appointed in consequence
of a case in which the commander of an English ship in a Mohammedan port was summoned to give
up a slave who had gone on board. A paper laid before the Committee by Fitzjames is reprinted
in the first passage cited. He thinks that international law prescribes the surrender of the
slave; and that we should not try to evade this 'revolting' consequence by a fiction as to
the 'exterritoriality' of a ship of war, which might lead to unforeseen and awkward results.
We ought to admit that we are deliberately breaking the law, because we hold it to be unjust
and desire its amendment. He signs the report of the Commission understanding that it sanctions
this view.]

CHAPTER VI

JUDICIAL CAREER

I. HISTORY OF CRIMINAL LAW

The Commission upon the Criminal Code occupied Fitzjames for some time after his appointment
to a judgeship. His first appearance in his new capacity was in April 1879 at the Central Criminal
Court, where he had held his first brief, and had made his first appearance after returning
from India. He had to pass sentence of death upon an atrocious scoundrel convicted of matricide.
A few months later he describes what was then a judge's business in chambers. It consists principally,
he says, in making a number of small orders, especially in regard to debtors against whom judgment
has been given. 'It is rather dismal, and shows one a great deal of the very seamy side of
life.... You cannot imagine how small are the matters often dealt with, nor how important they
often are to the parties. In this dingy little room, and under the most undignified circumstances,
I have continually to make orders which affect all manner of interests, and which it is very
hard to set right if I go wrong. It is the very oddest side of one's business. I am not quite
sure whether I like it or not. At any rate it is the very antithesis of "pomp and 'umbug."'

The last phrase alludes to a conversation overheard at the assizes between two workmen. One
of them described the judge, the late Lord Chief Justice Cockburn, as a 'cheery swine' who,
as he affirmed, had gone to church and preached a sermon an hour and a half long. The sheriff,
too, was there in a red coat, and had no doubt got his place by interest. 'Pomp and 'umbug
I calls it, and we poor chaps pays for it all.' Fitzjames heartily enjoyed good vernacular
embodiments of popular imagination. He admitted that he was not quite insensible to the pleasures
of pomp and humbug as represented by javelin men and trumpeters. His work, as my quotation
indicates, included some duties that were trivial and some that were repulsive. In spite of
all, however, he thoroughly enjoyed his position. He felt that he was discharging an important
function, and was conscious of discharging it efficiently. There are few greater pleasures,
certainly few were greater to him, than the exercise of a craft which one has so mastered as
to have lost all the embarrassment of a beginner. He felt that he was not only up to his duties
but had superfluous energy to direct elsewhere. The pleasantest hours of the day were those
before and after business hours, when he could devote himself to his literary plans.

In some of his letters to Lord Lytton about the time of his appointment, I find unusual confessions
of weariness. He admits that there is a difference between forty and fifty; and thinks he has
not quite the old elasticity. I believe, however, that this refers to the worry caused by his
work on the Commission, and the daily wrangle over the precise wording of the code, while the
judgeship was not yet a certainty. At any rate there is no more mention of such feelings after
a time; and in the course of the summer he was once more taking up an important literary scheme
which would have tasked the energies of the youngest and strongest. He seems to have contemplated
for a time a series of books which should cover almost the whole field of English law and be
a modern substitute for Blackstone. The only part of this actually executed--but that part
was no trifle--was another book upon the English Criminal Law. It was, in truth, as he ventured
to say, 'a remarkable achievement for a busy man to have written at spare moments.' We must,
of course, take into account his long previous familiarity with the law. The germ of the book
is to be found in the Essay of 1857; and in one way or other, as a writer, a barrister, a codifier,
and a judge, he had ever since had the subject in his mind. It involved, however, along with
much that was merely recapitulation of familiar topics, a great amount of laborious investigation
of new materials. He mentions towards the end of the time that he has been working at it for
eight hours a day during his holiday in Ireland. The whole was finished in the autumn of 1882,
and it was published in the following spring.

Fitzjames explains in his preface how the book had come to be written. He had, as I have said,
laid aside the new edition of the original 'View' in order to compile the 'Digest,' which he
had felt to be its necessary complement. I may add that he also wrote with the help of his
eldest son--now Sir Herbert Stephen--a 'Digest of the Law of Criminal Procedure,' which was
published contemporaneously with the 'History.' The 'Digest' had led to the code and to the
Commission. When the Commission was over, he returned to the proposed new edition of the 'View.'
But Fitzjames seems to have had an odd incapacity for producing a new edition. We, who call
ourselves authors by profession, are sometimes tempted, and we do not always resist the temptation,
to describe a book as 'revised and corrected' when, in point of fact, we have added a note
or two and struck out half a dozen obvious misprints. When Fitzjames said that his earlier
treatise might be described as 'in some sense a first edition' of the later, he meant that
he had written an entirely new book upon a different aspect of the old subject. The 'View'
is in one volume of about 500 pages, nearly a third of which (153 pages) consists of reports
of typical French and English trials. These are reprinted in the 'History.' Of the remainder,
over 100 pages are devoted to the Law of Evidence, which is not discussed in the 'History.'
Consequently the first 233 pages of the 'View' correspond to the whole of the three volumes
of the 'History,' which, omitting the reported trials given in both books, contain 4,440 pages.
That is, the book has swelled to six times the original size, and I do not think that a single
sentence of the original remains. With what propriety this can be called a 'new edition' I
will not try to decide.

The cause of this complete transformation of the book is significant. Fitzjames, in his preface,
observes that much has been said of the 'historical method' of late years. It has, he agrees,
'thrown great light upon the laws and institutions of remote antiquity.' Less, however, has
been done for modern times; although what is called 'constitutional history' has been 'investigated
with admirable skill and profound learning.' As I have noticed, his original adherence to the
theories of Bentham and Austin had tended to make him comparatively indifferent to the principles
accepted and illustrated by the writings of Maine. He had looked at first with some doubts
upon those performances and the brilliant generalisations of 'Ancient Law' and its successors.
He quotes somewhere a phrase of his friend Bowen, who had said that he read Maine's works with
the profoundest admiration for the genius of the author, but with just a faint suspicion somewhere
in the background of his mind that the results might turn out to be all nonsense. Fitzjames
had at any rate no prepossessions in favour of the method, and may be said to have been recruited,
almost in spite of himself, by the historical school. But it was impossible for anyone to discuss
the peculiarities of English Criminal Law without also being plunged into historical investigations.
At every point the system is determined by the circumstances of its growth; and you can no
more account for its oddities or its merits without considering its history than you can explain
the structure of a bat or a seal without going back to previous forms of life. The growth of
the criminal law, as Fitzjames remarks, is closely connected with the development of the moral
sentiments of the community: with all the great political and social revolutions and with the
changes of the ecclesiastical constitution and the religious beliefs of the nation. He was
accordingly drawn into writing a history which may be regarded as complementary to the great
constitutional histories of Hallam and Dr. Stubbs. He takes for granted many of their results,
and frankly acknowledges all his obligations. But he had also to go through many investigations
of his own special topics, and produced a history which, if I am not mistaken, is of the highest
interest as bringing out certain correlative processes in the legal development of our institutions,
which constitutional historians naturally left in the background.

His early work upon the similar book suggested by his father had made him more or less familiar
with some of the original sources. He now had to plunge into various legal antiquities, and
to study, for example, the six folio volumes called Rotuli Parliamentorum; to delve in year-books
and old reports and the crabbed treatises of ancient lawyers, and to consider the precise meaning
and effect of perplexed and obsolete statutes. He was not an antiquary by nature, for an antiquary,
I take it, is one who loves antiquity for its own sake, and enjoys a minute inquiry almost
in proportion to its minuteness. Fitzjames's instinct, on the contrary, was to care for things
old or new only so far as they had some distinct bearing upon living problems of importance.
I could not venture to pronounce upon the value of his researches; but I am happily able to
give the opinion of Professor Maitland, who can speak as one having authority. 'About the excellence
of your brother's History of English Criminal Law,' he writes to me, 'there can, I suppose,
be but one opinion among those who are competent to speak of such a matter. But I think that
he is scarcely likely to get all the credit that is due to him for certain parts of the work
which are especially interesting to me, and which I have often read--I mean those parts which
deal with the middle ages. They seem to me full of work which is both good and new. I take
it that he had no great love for the middle ages, and wrote the chapters of which I am speaking
as a disagreeable task. I do not think that he had from nature any great power of transferring
himself or his readers into a remote age, or of thinking the thoughts of a time very different
from that in which he lived: and yet I am struck every time I take up the book with the thoroughness
of his work, and the soundness of his judgments. I would not say the same of some of his predecessors,
great lawyers though they were, for in dealing with mediæval affairs they showed a wonderful
credulity. To me it seems that he has often gone right when they went wrong, and that his estimate
of historical evidence was very much sounder than theirs. The amount of uncongenial, if not
repulsive labour that he must have performed when he was studying the old law-books is marvellous.
He read many things that had not been used, at all events in an intelligent way, for a very
long time past; and--so I think, but it is impertinent in me to say it--he almost always got
hold of the true story.'

To write three thick volumes involving such inquiries within three years and a half; and to
do the work so well as to deserve this praise from an accomplished legal antiquary, was by
itself an achievement which would have contented the ambition of an average author. But when
it is remembered that the time devoted to it filled only the interstices of an occupation which
satisfies most appetites for work, and in which he laboured with conscientious industry, I
think that the performance may deserve Professor Maitland's epithet, 'marvellous.' He was greatly
interested in the success of the book, though his experience had not led him to anticipate
wide popularity. It was well received by competent judges, but a book upon such a topic, even
though not strictly a 'law-book,' can hardly be successful in the circulating-library sense
of the word. Fitzjames, indeed, had done his best to make his work intelligible to the educated
outsider. He avoided as much as possible all the technicalities which make the ordinary law-book
a hopeless bewilderment to the lay reader, and which he regarded on all grounds with natural
antipathy. The book can be read, as one outsider at least can testify, with strong and continuous
interest; though undoubtedly the reader must be prepared to endure a little strain upon his
attention.

There are, indeed, certain drawbacks. In spite of the abundant proofs of industry and knowledge,
there are indications that a little more literary polish might have been advantageous. Some
of the materials are so crabbed that hardly any skill could have divested them of their natural
stiffness. As Professor Maitland's remarks indicate, Fitzjames did not love the old period
for its own sake. He liked, as I have noticed, general histories, such as Gibbon's, which give
a bird's-eye view of long periods and, in a sense, codify a great mass of knowledge. But he
had not the imaginative power of reconstructing ancient states of society with all their picturesque
incidents which was first exemplified by Scott. He was always interested in books that reveal
human nature, and says in the 'History,' for example, that some of the State Trials are to
him 'much more impressive than poetry or fiction.'[176] But the incidents do not present themselves
to him, as they did to Scott or to Macaulay, as a series of vivid pictures with all their material
surroundings. He shrank, more advisedly, perhaps, from another tendency which has given popularity
to a different school. Though he gradually became an admirer of Maine's generalisations, founded
upon cautious inquiries and recommended by extraordinary literary skill, his own intellectual
aptitudes did not prompt him to become a rival. Briefly, his attitude of mind was in the strictest
sense judicial. He asks always for distinct proofs and definite issues. He applies his canons
of evidence to every statement that comes up, and, after examining it as carefully as he can,
pronounces his conclusions, unequivocally but cautiously. He will not be tempted to a single
step beyond the solid ground of verifiable fact. This undoubtedly gives confidence to the tolerably
patient reader, who learns to respect the sobriety and impartiality of his guide. But it also
fails to convince the hasty reader that he has seen the event precisely as it happened, or
that he is in possession of a philosophical key to open all historical problems. I do not wish
for a moment to underrate the value of work which has different qualities; but I do think that
Fitzjames's merits as a solid inquirer may be overlooked by readers who judge a writer by the
brilliance of his pictures and the neatness of his theories.

The book covers a very large field. A brief indication of its general plan will show how many
topics are more or less treated. He begins with a short account of the Roman Criminal Law;
and then of English law before the Conquest. He next takes up the history of all the criminal
courts, including the criminal jurisdiction of the extraordinary courts, such as Parliament
and the Privy Council. This is followed by a history of the procedure adopted in the courts,
tracing especially the development of trial by jury. The second volume opens a discussion of
certain principles applicable to crime in general, such as the theory of responsibility. Next
follows a history of the law relating to crime in general. He then takes up the history of
the principal classes of crime, considering in separate chapters offences against the state,
treason, sedition, and seditious libels; offences against religion, offences against the person
(this opens the third volume), especially homicide; offences against property, such as theft
and forgery; offences relating to trade and labour and 'miscellaneous offences.' This finishes
the history of the law in England, but he adds an account of the extension of the English criminal
law to India; and this naturally leads to an exposition of his views upon codification. The
exposition is mainly a reproduction of the report of the Commission of 1878-9, which was chiefly
his own composition. Finally, the old reports of trials, with a few alterations, are appended
by way of pointing the contrast between the English and the French methods, upon which he has
already introduced some observations.

Mr. Justice Stephen's book, said Sir F. Pollock in a review of the day, is 'the most extensive
and arduous' undertaken by any English lawyer since the days of Blackstone. So large a framework
necessarily includes many subjects interesting not only to the lawyer but to the antiquary,
the historian, and the moralist; and one effect of bringing them together under a new point
of view is to show how different branches of inquiry reciprocally illustrate each other. The
historian of the previous generation was content to denounce Scroggs and Jeffreys, or to lament
the frequency of capital offences in the eighteenth century, and his moral, especially if he
was a Whig, was our superiority to our great-grandfathers. There was plenty of room for virtuous
indignation. But less attention was generally paid to the really interesting problems, how
our ancestors came to adopt and to be content with these institutions; what precisely the institutions
were, and how they were connected with other parts of the social framework. When an advance
is made towards the solution of such problems, and when we see how closely they connect themselves
with other problems, social, ecclesiastical, and industrial, as well as political, we are making
also a step towards an intelligent appreciation of the real meaning of history. It is more
than a collection of anecdotes, or even, as Carlyle put it, than the essence of a multitude
of biographies; it becomes a study of the growth of an organic structure; and although Fitzjames
was reluctant, even to excess, to put forward any claim to be a philosophical historian, a
phrase too often applied to a dealer in 'vague generalities,' I think that such work as his
was of great service in providing the data for the truly philosophical historian who is always
just on the eve of appearing.

I venture to touch upon one or two points with the purpose of suggesting in how many ways the
history becomes involved in topics interesting to various classes of readers, from the antiquary
to the student of the development of thought. The history of trial by jury had, of course,
been already unravelled by previous historians. Fitzjames was able, however, to produce quaint
survivals of the old state of things, under which a man's neighbours were assumed to be capable
of deciding his guilt or innocence from their own knowledge. There was the Gibbet Law of Halifax,
which lasted till the seventeenth century. The jurors might catch a man 'handhabend, backbarend,
or confessand,' with stolen goods worth 13-1/2d. in his possession and cut off his head on
a primitive guillotine without troubling the judges. Even in 1880 there existed (and I presume
there still exists) a certain 'liberty of the Savoy,' under the shadow of the new courts of
justice, which can deal with keepers of disorderly houses after the same fashion.[177] From
this primitive institution Fitzjames has to grope his way by scanty records to show how, during
the middle ages, the jury ceased to be also witnesses and became judges of fact informed by
witnesses. Emerging into the period of the Tudors and the early Stuarts, he comes to trials
full of historic interest; to the dramatic scenes in which Sir Thomas More, and Throckmorton,
and Raleigh played their parts. He has to show how in a period of overpowering excitement,
when social organisation was far weaker, and the power of the rulers more dependent upon personal
vigour, the Government dealt out sharp and short justice, though juries still had to be cajoled
or bullied; how the system was influenced by the growth of the Star Chamber, with a mode of
procedure conforming to a different type; and how, when the tyranny of such courts had provoked
indignation, they were swept away and left to the jury its still undisputed supremacy. From
the time when honest John Lilburne wrangled successfully against Cromwell's judges, it began
to assume a special sanctity in popular belief. Then we come to the Popish plots and the brutalities
of Scroggs and Jeffreys, when the jury played a leading part, though often perverted by popular
or judicial influence, and without any sound theory of evidence. The revolution of 1688 swept
away the grosser abuses; the administration of justice became decorous and humane; a spirit
of fair play showed itself; the laws of evidence were gradually worked out; and, instead of
political tragedies, we have a number of picturesque cases throwing the strangest gleams of
light into all manner of odd dark social corners. Within the last century, finally, the mode
of investigating crime has become singularly dignified, impartial, and substantially just.
A survey of this long history, bringing out at every step picturesque incidents and curious
illustrations of social and political constitutions, lights up also the real merits and defects
of the existing system. Fitzjames, with much fuller knowledge and longer experience, adheres
substantially to his previous opinion. He has not, of course, the old-fashioned worship for
the 'palladium of our liberties'; jurors could be 'blind and cruel' under Charles II., and
as severe as the severest judge under George III. They are not more likely to do justice than
a single judge. But the supreme advantages of placing the judge in his proper position as mediator
and adviser, and of taking the public into confidence as to the perfect impartiality of the
proceedings, outweigh all objections.

Again we have the curious history of the 'benefit of clergy.' Before 1487, a man who could
read and write might commit murder as often as he pleased, subject to an indefinite chance
of imprisonment by the 'ordinary.' At a later period, he could still murder at the cost of
having M branded on the brawn of his thumb. But women and men who had married two wives or
one widow did not enjoy this remarkable privilege. The rule seems as queer and arbitrary as
any of the customs which excite our wonder among primitive tribes. The explanation, of course
throws a curious light upon the struggle between Church and State in the middle ages; and in
the other direction helps to explain the singularities of criminal legislation in the eighteenth
century. Our grandfathers seem to have thought that felony and misdemeanour were as much natural
classes as mammal and marsupial, and that all that they could do was to remove the benefit
of clergy when the corresponding class of crime happened to be specially annoying. They managed
to work out the strange system of brutality and laxity and technicality in which the impunity
of a good many criminals was set off against excessive severity to others.

The spiritual courts, again, give strange glimpses into the old ecclesiastical system. The
records show that from the time of the Conquest to that of the Stuarts a system prevailed which
was equivalent to the Spanish Inquisition, except that it did not use torture. It interfered
with all manner of moral offences such as that of Eleanor Dalok, a 'communis skandalizatrix,'
who 'utinizavit' (supposed to be a perfect of utinam) 'se fuisse in inferno quamdiu Deus erit
in cælo, ut potuisset uncis infernalibus vindicare se de quodam Johanne Gybbys mortuo.' The
wrath provoked by this and more vexatious interferences makes intelligible the sweeping away
of the whole system in 1640. With this is connected the long history of religious persecution,
from the time when (1382) the clergy forged an act of Parliament to give the bishops a freer
hand with heretics. Strange fragments and shadows of these old systems still remain; and according
to Fitzjames it would still in strict law be a penal offence to publish Renan's 'Life of Christ.'[178]
The attempt to explain the law as referring to the manner, not the matter, of the attack is,
he thinks, sophistical and the law should be simply repealed. A parallel case is that of seditious
libels; and there is a very curious history connected with the process by which we have got
rid of the simple, old doctrine that all attacks upon our rulers, reasonable or otherwise,
were criminal.

These are some of many cases in which Fitzjames has to give a side of history generally left
in comparative obscurity. Upon some matters, as, for example, upon the history of impeachments,
he thought that he had been able to correct or clear up previous statements. I have only wished
to show how many interesting topics come into his plan; and to me, I confess, the most interesting
of all is the illustration of the amazing nature of the so-called intellectual process involved.
People seem to begin by making the most cumbrous and unreasonable hypotheses possible, and
slowly and reluctantly wriggling out of them under actual compulsion. That is not peculiar
to lawyers, and may have a meaning even in philosophy.

Fitzjames's comments upon the actual state of the law brings him to many important ethical
problems. The discussion of the conditions of legal responsibility is connected with that of
moral responsibility. Fitzjames once more insists upon the close connection between morality
and law. 'The sentence of the law,' he says, 'is to the moral sentiment of the public what
a seal is to hot wax. It converts into a permanent final judgment what might otherwise be a
transient sentiment.' The criminal law assumes that 'it is right to hate criminals.' He regards
this hatred as a 'healthy natural feeling'; for which he again quotes the authority of Butler
and Bentham. The legal mode of expressing resentment directs it to proper applications in the
same way as the law of marriage gives the right direction to the passion of love. From his
point of view, as I have already indicated, this represents the necessary complement to the
purely utilitarian view, which would make deterrence the sole legitimate end of punishment.
The other, though generally consistent, end is the gratification of the passion of moral indignation.[179]

Hence arise some difficult questions. Fitzjames insists, in agreement with Bentham, and especially
with James Mill, that the criminal law is concerned with 'intentions,' not with 'motives.'
All manner of ambiguities result from neglecting this consideration. The question for the lawyer
is, did the prisoner mean to kill?--not, what were his motives for killing? The motives may,
in a sense, have been good; as, for example, when a persecutor acts from a sincere desire to
save souls. But the motive makes no difference to the sufferer. I am burnt equally, whether
I am burnt from the best of motives or the worst. A rebel is equally mischievous whether he
is at bottom a patriot or an enemy of society. The legislator cannot excuse a man because he
was rather misguided than malignant. It is easy to claim good motives for many classes of criminal
conduct, and impossible to test the truth of the excuse. We cannot judge motives with certainty.
The court can be sure that a man was killed; it can be sure that the killing was not accidental;
but it may be impossible to prove that the killer had not really admirable motives.

But if so, what becomes of the morality? The morality of an act is of course affected (if not
determined) by the motive.[180] We can secure, no doubt, a general correspondence. Crimes,
in nine cases out of ten, are also sins. But crimes clearly imply the most varying degrees
of immorality: we may loathe the killer as utterly vile, or be half inclined very much to applaud
what he has done. The difficulty is properly met, according to Fitzjames, by leaving a wide
discretion in the hands of the judge. The jury says the law has been broken; the judge must
consider the more delicate question of the degree of turpitude implied. Yet in some cases,
such as that of a patriotic rebel, it is impossible to take this view. It is desirable that
a man who attacks the Government should attack it at the risk of his life. Law and morality,
therefore, cannot be brought into perfect coincidence, although the moral influence of law
is of primary importance, and in the normal state of things no conflict occurs.

There are certain cases in which the difficulty presents itself conspicuously. The most interesting,
perhaps, is the case of insanity, which Fitzjames treats in one of the most elaborate chapters
of his book. It replaces a comparatively brief and crude discussion in the 'View,' and is conspicuously
candid as well as lucid. He read a great many medical treatises upon the subject, and accepts
many arguments from an opponent who had denounced English judges and lawyers with irritating
bitterness. There is no difficulty when the madman is under an illusion. Our ancestors seem
to have called nobody mad so long as he did not suppose himself to be made of glass or to be
the Devil. But madness has come to include far more delicate cases. The old lawyers were content
to ask whether a prisoner knew what he was doing and whether it was wrong. But we have learnt
that a man may be perfectly well aware that he is committing a murder, and know murders to
be forbidden in the Ten Commandments, and yet unable to refrain from murder. He has, say the
doctors, homicidal monomania, and it is monstrous to call in the hangman when you ought to
be sending for the doctor. The lawyer naturally objects to the introduction of this uncertain
element, which may be easily turned to account by 'experts' capable of finding symptoms of
all kinds of monomania. Fitzjames, however, after an elaborate discussion, decides that the
law ought to take account of mental disease which operates by destroying the power of self-control.
The jury, he thinks, should be allowed to say either 'guilty,' or 'not guilty on the ground
of insanity,' or 'guilty, but his power of self-control was diminished by insanity.'[181] I
need not go into further detail, into a question which seems to be curiously irritating to
both sides. I am content to observe that in the earlier book Fitzjames had been content with
the existing law, and that the change of opinion shows very careful and candid consideration
of the question, and, as I think, an advance to more moderate and satisfactory conclusions.

The moral view of the question comes out in other relations. He intimates now and then his
dissatisfaction with the modern sentimentalism, his belief in the value of capital and other
corporal punishments, and his doubt whether the toleration of which he has traced the growth
can represent more than a temporary compromise. But these represent mere obiter dicta which,
as he admits, are contrary to popular modes of thought. He is at least equally anxious to secure
fair play for the accused. He dwells, for example, upon the hardships inflicted upon prisoners
by the English system of abstinence from interrogation. The French plan, indeed, leads to cruelty,
and our own has the incidental advantage of stimulating to the search of independent evidence.
'It is much pleasanter,' as an Indian official remarked to him by way of explaining the practice
of extorting confessions in India, 'to sit comfortably in the shade rubbing red pepper into
a poor devil's eyes than to go about in the sun hunting up evidence.'[182] Fitzjames, however,
frequently remarked that poor and ignorant prisoners, unaccustomed to collect their ideas or
to understand the bearing of evidence, are placed at a great disadvantage by never having stated
their own cases. The proceedings must pass before them 'like a dream which they cannot grasp,'
and their counsel, if they have counsel, can only guess at the most obvious line of defence.
He gives instances of injustice inflicted in such cases, and suggests that the prisoners should
be made competent witnesses before both the magistrates and the judge. This would often enable
an innocent man to clear up the case; and would avoid the evils due to the French system.[183]

Without going further into this or other practical suggestions, I will quote his characteristic
conclusion. The Criminal Law, he says, may be regarded as an expression of the second table
of the Ten Commandments. It follows step by step the exposition of our duty to our neighbours
in the Catechism. There was never more urgent necessity for preaching such a sermon than there
is at present. There was never so much doubt as to other sanctions. The religious sanction,
in particular, has been 'immensely weakened, and people seem to believe that if they do not
happen to like morality, there is no reason why they should be moral.' It is, then, 'specially
necessary to those who do care for morality to make its one unquestionable indisputable sanction
as clear and strong and emphatic as acts and words can make it. A man may disbelieve in God,
heaven, and hell; he may care little for mankind, or society, or for the nation to which he
belongs--let him at least be plainly told what are the acts which will stamp him with infamy,
hold him up to public execration and bring him to the gallows, the gaol, or the lash.'[184]
That vigorous summary shows the connection between the 'Liberty, Equality, Fraternity,' the
various codifying enterprises, and his writings upon theology and ethics. The remarkable point,
if I am not mistaken, is that in spite of the strong feeling indicated by the passage just
quoted, the tone of the book is throughout that of sound common sense, impartiality, and love
of fair play. It is characteristic that in spite of his prejudice against the commonplaces
about progress, he does, in fact, show that the history of criminal law is in many most important
respects the history of a steady advance in humanity and justice. Nor, in spite of a reservation
or two against 'sentimentalism,' does he fail to show hearty sympathy with the process of improvement.

II. 'NUNCOMAR AND IMPEY'

In the summer (1883) which followed the publication of the 'History,' it began to appear that
Fitzjames's health was not quite so vigorous as it had hitherto been. He could not throw off
the effects of a trifling accident in June so rapidly as of old; and in the last months of
the year his condition caused for a time some anxiety to his wife. Considered by the light
of what afterwards happened, these symptoms probably showed that his unremitting labours had
inflicted a real though as yet not a severe injury upon his constitution. For the present,
however, it was natural to suppose that he was suffering from nothing more than a temporary
exhaustion, due, perhaps, to the prolonged wrestle with his great book. Rest, it was believed,
would fully restore him. He was, indeed, already at work again upon what turned out to be his
last considerable literary undertaking. The old project for a series of law-books probably
seemed rather appalling to a man just emerging from his recent labours; and those labours had
suggested another point to him. The close connection between our political history and our
criminal law had shown that a lawyer's technical knowledge might be useful in historical research.
He resolved, therefore, to study some of the great trials 'with a lawyer's eye'; and to give
accounts of them which might exhibit the importance of this application of special knowledge.[185]
He soon fixed upon the impeachment of Warren Hastings. This not only possessed great legal
and historical interest, but was especially connected with his favourite topics. It would enable
him to utter some of his thoughts about India, and to discuss some very interesting points
as to the application of morality to politics. He found that the materials were voluminous
and intricate. Many blue books had been filled by the labours of parliamentary committees upon
India; several folio volumes were filled with reports of the impeachment of Hastings, and with
official papers connected with the same proceeding. A mass of other materials, including a
collection of Sir Elijah Impey's papers in the British Museum, soon presented themselves. Finally,
Fitzjames resolved to make an experiment by writing a monograph upon 'Impey's Trial of Nuncomar,'
which is an episode in the great Warren Hastings story, compressible within moderate limits.
Impey, as Fitzjames remarks incidentally, had certain claims both upon him and upon Macaulay;
for he had been a Fellow of Trinity and had made the first attempt at a code in India. If this
first book succeeded Fitzjames would take up the larger subject. In the event he never proceeded
beyond the preliminary stage. His 'Story of Nuncomar and the Impeachment of Sir Elijah Impey,'
published in the spring of 1885, gives the result.

Fitzjames had been familiar from his boyhood with the famous article upon Warren Hastings,
in which Macaulay reached the very culminating point of his surpassing literary skill. It is
a skill which, whatever else may be said of it, makes his opponents despair. They may disprove
his statements; they can hardly hope to displace his versions of fact from their hold upon
popular belief. One secret of Macaulay's art is suggested by the account of his delight in
'castle-building.' His vast reading and his portentous memory enabled him to create whole galleries
of mental pictures of the past, and his vigorous style embodies his visions with admirable
precision and sharpness of outline. But, as those who have followed him in detail became painfully
aware, there is more than one deduction to be made from his merits. His imagination undoubtedly
worked upon a great mass of knowledge; but the very nature of the imaginative process was to
weave all the materials into a picture, and therefore to fill up gaps by conjecture. He often
unconsciously makes fancy do the work of logic. 'The real history' (of the famous quarrel between
Addison and Steele), says Macaulay, 'we have little doubt, was something like this': and he
proceeds to tell a story in minute detail as vividly as if he had been an eye-witness. To him,
the clearness of the picture was a sufficient guarantee of its truthfulness. It was only another
step to omit the 'doubt' and say simply 'The real history was.' Yet all the time the real history
according to the best evidence was entirely different. We can never be certain whether one
of Macaulay's brilliant pictures is--as it sometimes certainly is--a fair representation of
a vast quantity of evidence or an audacious inference from a few hints and indications. It
represents, in either case, the effect upon his mind; but the effect, if lively enough, is
taken to prove itself. He will not condescend to the prosaic consideration of evidence, or
to inserting the necessary 'ifs' and 'perhapses' which disturb so painfully the impression
of a vivid narrative. When his strong party feelings have coloured his beliefs from the first,
his beliefs acquire an intensity which enables them not only to dispense with but to override
evidence.

I insist upon this because Fitzjames's mental excellencies and defects exactly invert Macaulay's.
His imagination did not clothe the evidence with brilliant colours; and, on the other hand,
did not convert conjectures into irresistible illusions. The book upon 'Nuncomar and Impey'
shows the sound judgment of evidence in regard to a particular fact which Professor Maitland
perceives in his treatment of mediæval affairs. It is an exhaustive, passionless, and shrewd
inquiry into the facts. He speaks in one of his letters of the pleasure which he has discovered
in treating a bit of history 'microscopically'; in getting at the ultimate facts instead of
trusting to the superficial summaries of historians. In brief, he is applying to an historical
question the methods learnt in the practice of the courts of law. The book is both in form
and substance the careful summing up of a judge in a complicated criminal case. The disadvantage,
from a literary point of view, is obvious. If we were profoundly interested in a trial for
murder, we should also follow with profound interest the summing up of a clear-headed businesslike
judge. But, if we did not care two straws whether the man were guilty or innocent, we might
find the summing up too long for our patience. That, I fear, may be true in this case. Macaulay's
great triumph was to create an interest in matters which, in other hands, were repulsively
dry. Fitzjames could not create such an interest; though his account may be deeply interesting
to those who are interested antecedently. He observes himself that his 'book will be read by
hardly anyone, while Macaulay's paragraph will be read with delighted conviction by several
generations.' So long as he is remembered at all, poor Impey will stand in a posthumous pillory
as a corrupt judge and a judicial murderer.[186] One reason is, no doubt, that the effect of
a pungent paragraph is seldom obliterated by a painstaking exposure of its errors requiring
many pages of careful and guarded reasoning. Macaulay's narrative could be superseded in popular
esteem only by a writer who should condense a more correct but equally dogmatic statement into
language as terse and vivid as his own. Yet Fitzjames's book must be studied by all conscientious
historians in future, and will help, it is to be hoped, to spread a knowledge of the fact that
Macaulay was not possessed of plenary inspiration.

It will be enough to give one instance of Macaulay's audacity. 'Every schoolboy of fourteen'
knows by heart his vivid account of the reign of terror produced by Impey's exercise of the
powers of the supreme court, and of the bribe by which Hastings bought him off. A powerful
and gloomy picture is drawn in two or three expressive paragraphs. The objection to the story,
says Fitzjames, 'is that it is absolutely false from end to end, and in almost every particular.'[187]
Fitzjames proceeds not only to assert the absence of evidence, but to show what was the supposed
evidence out of which Macaulay's imagination conjured this vision of horror. Fitzjames remarks
in a letter that his investigations had given him a very low opinion of the way in which history
was written, and certainly, if

Macaulay's statement was a fair specimen, the estimate could hardly be too low.

I may admit that, to my mind, the purely judicial method followed by Fitzjames has its disadvantages.
It tends to the exclusion of considerations which, though rightly excluded from a criminal
inquiry, cannot be neglected by an historian. A jury would be properly directed to acquit Hastings
upon the charge of having instigated the prosecution of Nuncomar. Yet, after all, it is very
hard to resist the impression that he must have had some share, more or less direct, in producing
an event which occurred just at the right moment and had such fortunate results for him. It
would be very wrong to hang a man upon such presumptions; but it is impossible to deny that
they have a logical bearing upon the facts. However this may be, I think it is undeniable that
Fitzjames did good service to history in showing once for all the ruthlessness and extravagance
of Macaulay's audacious rhetoric. It is characteristic that while making mincemeat of Macaulay's
most famous essay, Fitzjames cannot get rid of his tenderness for the great 'Tom' of his boyish
days. Besides praising the literary skill, which indeed, is part of his case, he parts from
his opponent with the warm eulogy which I have previously noticed. He regards Macaulay as deluded
by James Mill and by the accepted Whig tradition. He condemns Mill, whose dryness and severity
have gained him an undeserved reputation for impartiality and accuracy; he speaks--certainly
not too strongly--of the malignity of Francis; and he is, I think, a little hard upon Burke,
Sheridan, and Elliot, who were misled by really generous feelings (as he fully admits) into
the sentimental rhetoric by which he was always irritated. He treats them as he would have
put down a barrister trying to introduce totally irrelevant eloquence. Macaulay escapes more
easily. Fitzjames felt that the essay when first published was merely intended as a summary
of the accepted version, making no pretensions to special research. The morality of this judgment
is questionable. Burke, believing sincerely that Hastings was a wicked and corrupt tyrant,
inferred logically that he should be punished. Macaulay, accepting Burke's view of the facts,
calmly asserts that Hastings was a great criminal, and yet with equal confidence invites his
readers to worship the man whose crimes were useful to the British empire. Fitzjames disbelieved
in the crimes, and could therefore admire Hastings without reserve as the greatest man of the
century. His sympathy with Macaulay's patriotism made him, I think, a little blind to the lax
morality with which it was in this case associated. There is yet another point upon which I
think that Macaulay deserves a severer sentence. 'It is to be regretted,' says Fitzjames, 'that
Macaulay should never have noticed the reply made to the essay by Impey's son.'[188] Unluckily
this is not a solitary instance. Macaulay, trusting to his immense popularity, took no notice
of replies which were too dull or too complicated to interest the public. Fitzjames would himself
have been utterly incapable of behaviour for which it is difficult to discover an appropriate
epithet, but which certainly is inconsistent with a sincere and generous love of fair play.
If he did not condemn Macaulay more severely, I attribute it to the difficulty which he always
felt in believing anything against a friend or one associated with his fondest memories. Had
I written the book myself, I should have felt bound to say something unpleasant: but I am hardly
sorry that Fitzjames tempered his justice with a little excess of mercy.

The scheme of continuing this book by an account of Warren Hastings was not at once dropped,
but its impracticability became obvious before many months had passed. Fitzjames was conducting
the Derby assizes in April 1885, when he had a very serious attack of illness. His wife was
fortunately with him, and, after consulting a doctor on the spot, he returned to London, where
he consulted Sir Andrew Clark. A passage from a letter to Lady Egerton explains his view of
what had happened. 'I suppose,' he says (April 29, 1885), 'that Mary has told you the dreadful
tale of my getting up in the morning and finding that my right hand had either forgot its cunning
or had turned so lazy that I could not write with it, and how I sent for a Derby doctor, and
how he ordered me up to London, and how Clark condemned me to three months' idleness and prison
diet--I must admit, of a sufficiently liberal kind. Fuller sees the sentence carried out in
detail. I have had about three days' experience of it, and I must own that I already feel decidedly
better. I think that after the long vacation I shall be thoroughly well again. In the meantime,
I feel heartily ashamed of myself. I always did consider any kind of illness or weakness highly
immoral, but one must not expect to be either better or stronger than one's neighbours; and
I suppose there is some degree of truth in what so many people say on Sundays about their being
miserable sinners.' He adds that he is having an exceedingly pleasant time, which would be
still more pleasant if he could write with his own hand (the letter is dictated). He has 'whole
libraries of books' into which he earnestly desires to look. He feels like a man who has exchanged
dusty boots for comfortable slippers; he is reading Spanish 'with enthusiasm'; longing to learn
Italian, to improve his German, and even to read up his classics. He compares himself to a
traveller in Siberia who, according to one of his favourite anecdotes, loved raspberries and
found himself in a desert entirely covered with his favourite fruit.

He took the blow gallantly; perhaps rather too lightly. He was, of course, alarmed at first
by the symptoms described. Clark ultimately decided that, while the loss of power showed the
presence of certain morbid conditions, a careful system of diet might keep at bay for an indefinite
time the danger of the development of a fatal disease. Fitzjames submitted to the medical directions
with perhaps a little grumbling. He was not, like his father, an ascetic in matters of food.
He had the hearty appetite natural to his vigorous constitution. He was quite as indifferent
as his father to what, in the old phrase, used to be called 'the pleasures of the table.' He
cared absolutely nothing for the refinements of cookery, and any two vintages were as indistinguishable
to him as two tunes--that is, practically identical. He cared only for simple food, and I used,
in old days, to argue with him that a contempt for delicacies was as fastidious as a contempt
for plain beef and mutton. However that may be, he liked the simplest fare, but he liked plenty
of it. To be restricted in that matter was, therefore, a real hardship. He submitted, however,
and his health improved decidedly for the time. Perhaps he dismissed too completely the thought
of the danger by which he was afterwards threatened. But, in spite of the improvement, he had
made a step downwards. He was allowed to go on circuit again in the summer, after his three
months' rest, and soon felt himself quite equal to his work. But, from this time, he did not
add to his burthens by undertaking any serious labours of supererogation.

III. JUDICIAL CHARACTERISTICS

I will here say what I can of his discharge of the judicial functions which were henceforth
almost his sole occupation. In the first place, he enjoyed the work, and felt himself to be
in the position most suitable to his powers. Independent observers took, I believe, the same
view. I have reported the criticisms made upon his work at the bar, and have tried to show
what were the impediments to his success. In many respects these impediments ceased to exist,
and even became advantages, when he was raised to the bench. The difficulty which he had felt
in adapting himself to other men's views, the contempt for fighting battles by any means except
fair arguments upon the substantial merits of the case, were congenial, at least, to high judicial
qualities. He despised chicanery of all kinds, and formed independent opinions upon broad grounds
instead of being at the mercy of ingenious sophistry. He was free from the foibles of petty
vanity upon which a dexterous counsel could play, and had the solid, downright force of mind
and character which gives weight to authority of all kinds. I need not labour to prove that
masculine common sense is a good judicial quality. Popular opinion, however, is apt to misconstrue
broad epithets and to confound vigour with harshness. Fitzjames acquired, among careless observers,
a certain reputation for severity. I have not the slightest wish to conceal whatever element
of truth there might be in such a statement. But I must begin by remarking a fact which, however
obvious, must be explicitly stated. If there was one thing hateful to Fitzjames, and sure to
call out his strongest indignation, it was oppression in any form. The bullying from which
he suffered at school had left, as I have said, a permanent hatred for bullies. It had not
encouraged him, as it encourages the baser natures, to become a bully in his turn, but rather
to hate and trample down the evil thing wherever he met it. His theories, as I have said, led
him to give a prominent place (too prominent, as I think) to what he called 'coercion.' Coercion
in some form was inevitable upon his view; but right coercion meant essentially the suppression
of arbitrary violence and the substitution for it of force regulated by justice. Coercion,
in the form of law, was identical with the protection of the weak against the strong and the
erection of an impregnable barrier against the tyrannous misuse of power. This doctrine exactly
expressed his own character, for, as he was strong, he was also one of the most magnanimous
of men. He was incapable of being overbearing in social intercourse. He had the fighting instinct
to the full. An encounter with a downright enemy was a delight to him. But the joy of battle
never deadened his instinct of fair play. He would speak his mind, sometimes even with startling
bluntness, but he never tried to silence an opponent by dogmatism or bluster. The keenest argument,
therefore, could not betray him into the least discourtesy. He might occasionally frighten
a nervous antagonist into reticence and be too apt to confound such reticence with cowardice.
But he did not take advantage of his opponent's weakness. He would only give him up as unsuited
to play the game in the proper temper. In short, he represented what is surely the normal case
of an alliance between manliness and a love of fair play. It is the weaker and more feminine,
or effeminate, nature that is generally tempted to resort to an unfair use of weapons.

When, therefore, Fitzjames found himself in a position of authority, he was keenly anxious
to use his power fairly. He became decidedly more popular on the bench than he had been at
the bar. His desire to be thoroughly fair could not be stronger; but it had a better opportunity
of displaying itself. The counsel who practised before him recognised his essential desire
to allow them the fullest hearing. He learnt to 'suffer fools' patiently, if not gladly. I
apologise, of course, for supposing that any barrister could be properly designated by such
a word; but even barristers can occasionally be bores. Some gentlemen, who are certainly neither
the one nor the other, have spoken warmly of his behaviour. The late Mr. Montagu Williams,
for example, tells with pleasant gratitude how Fitzjames courteously came down from the bench
to sit beside him and so enabled him to spare a voice which had been weakened by illness. His
comment is that Fitzjames concealed 'the gentleness of a woman' under a stern exterior. So
Mr. Henry Dickens tells me of an action for slander in which he was engaged when a young barrister.
Both slanderer and slandered were employed in Billingsgate. The counsel for the defence naturally
made a joke of sensibility to strong language in that region. Mr. Dickens was in despair when
he saw that the judge and jury were being carried away by the humorous view of the case. Knowing
the facts, he tried to bring out the serious injury which had been inflicted. Fitzjames followed
him closely, became more serious, and summed up in his favour. When a verdict had been returned
accordingly, he sent a note to this effect:--'Dear Dickens, I am very grateful to you for preventing
me from doing a great act of injustice.' 'He was,' says Mr. Dickens, 'one of the fairest-minded
men I ever knew.' His younger son has described to me the kindness with which he encouraged
a young barrister--the only one who happened to be present--to undertake the defence of a prisoner,
and helped him through a difficult case which ended by an acquittal upon a point of law. 'I
only once,' says my nephew, 'heard him interrupt counsel defending a prisoner,' except in correcting
statements of fact. The solitary exception was in a case when palpably improper matter was
being introduced.

In spite of his patience, he occasionally gave an impression of irritability, for a simple
reason. He was thoroughly determined to suppress both unfairness and want of courtesy or disrespect
to the court. When a witness or a lawyer, as might sometimes happen, was insolent, he could
speak his mind very curtly and sharply. A powerful voice and a countenance which could express
stern resentment very forcibly gave a weight to such rebukes, not likely to be forgotten by
the offender. He had one quaint fancy, which occasionally strengthened this impression. Witnesses
are often exhorted to 'watch his lordship's pen' in order that they may not outrun his speed
in taking notes. Now Fitzjames was proud of his power of rapid writing (which, I may remark,
did not include a power of writing legibly). He was therefore nervously irritable when a witness
received the customary exhortation: 'If you watch my pen,' he said to a witness, 'I will send
you to prison': which, as he then had to explain, was not meant seriously. It came to be understood
that, in his case, the formula was to be avoided on pain of being considered wantonly offensive.

He rigidly suppressed, at any rate, anything which could lower the dignity of the proceedings.
He never indulged in any of those jokes to which reporters append--sometimes rather to the
reader's bewilderment--the comment, 'loud laughter.' Nor would he stand any improper exhibitions
of feeling in the audience. When a spectator once laughed at a piece of evidence which ought
to have caused disgust, he ordered the man to be placed by the side of the prisoner in the
dock, and kept him there till the end of the trial. He disliked the promiscuous attendance
of ladies at trials, and gave offence on one occasion by speaking of some persons of that sex
who were struggling for admission as 'women.' He was, however, a jealous defender of the right
of the public to be present under proper conditions; and gave some trouble during a trial of
dynamiters, when the court-house had been carefully guarded, by ordering the police to admit
people as freely as they could. His sense of humour occasionally made itself evident in spite
of his dislike to levity. He liked to perform variations upon the famous sentence, 'God has,
in his mercy, given you a strong pair of legs and arms, instead of which you go about the country
stealing ducks'; and he would detail absurd or trifling stories with an excess of solemnity
which betrayed to the intelligent his perception of their comic side.

Fitzjames thought, and I believe correctly, that he was at his best when trying prisoners,
and was also perhaps conscious, with equal reason, I believe, that no one could do it better.
His long experience and thorough knowledge of the law of crime and of evidence were great qualifications.
His force of character combined with his hatred of mere technicalities, and his broad, vigorous
common sense, enabled him to go straight to the point and to keep a firm hand upon the whole
management of the case. No rambling or irrelevance was possible under him. His strong physique,
and the deep voice which, if not specially harmonious, was audible to the last syllable in
every corner of the court, contributed greatly to his impressiveness. He took advantage of
his strength to carry out his own ideal of a criminal court as a school of morality. 'It may
be truly said,' as he remarks, 'that to hear in their happiest moments the summing up of such
judges as Lord Campbell, Lord Chief Justice Erle, or Baron Parke, was like listening not only
(to use Hobbes's famous expression) to law living and armed, but to justice itself.'[189] He
tried successfully to follow in their steps.

Justice implies fair play to the accused. I have already noticed how strongly he insists upon
this in his writings. They show how deeply he had been impressed in his early years at the
bar by the piteous spectacle of poor ignorant wretches, bewildered by an unfamiliar scene,
unable to collect their thoughts, or understand the nature of the proceedings, and sometimes
prevented by the very rules intended for their protection from bringing out what might be a
real defence. Many stories have been told me of the extreme care with which he would try to
elicit the meaning of some muddled remonstrance from a bewildered prisoner, and sometimes go
very near to the verge of what is permitted to a judge by giving hints which virtually amounted
to questions, and so helping prisoners to show that they were innocent or had circumstances
to allege in mitigation. He always spoke to them in a friendly tone, so as to give them the
necessary confidence. A low bully, for example, was accused of combining with two women to
rob a man. A conviction seemed certain till the prisoners were asked for their defence; when
one of them made a confused and rambling statement. Fitzjames divined the meaning, and after
talking to them for twenty minutes, during which he would not directly ask questions, succeeded
in making it clear that the prosecutor was lying, and obtained an acquittal. One other incident
out of many will be enough. A man accused of stabbing a policeman to avoid arrest, pleaded
guilty and was sentenced to seven years' penal servitude. On being removed by the warders he
clung to the rail, screaming, 'You can't do it.

You don't know what you are doing!' Fitzjames shouted to the warders to put him back; discovered
by patient hearing that the man was meaning to refer to some circumstance in extenuation, and
after calling the witnesses found that the statement was confirmed. 'Now, you silly fellow,'
he said, 'if you had pleaded "not guilty," as I told you, all this would have come out. It
is true that I did not know what I was doing, but it was your own fault.' He then reduced the
sentence to nine months, saying, 'Does that satisfy you?' 'Thank you, my Lord,' replied the
man, 'that's quite right,' and left the court quite cheerfully. Fitzjames was touched by the
man's confidence in a judge, and by his accurate knowledge of the proper legal tariff of punishment.
Fitzjames was scrupulously anxious in other ways not to wrest the law, even if unsatisfactory
in itself, out of dislike to the immediate offender. One instance is given by the curious case
of the Queen v. Ashwell (in 1885). A man had borrowed a shilling from another, who gave him
a sovereign by mistake. The borrower discovered the mistake an hour afterwards, and appropriated
the sovereign. Morally, no doubt, he was as dishonest as a thief. But the question arose whether
he was in strict law guilty of larceny. Fitzjames delivered an elaborate judgment to show that
upon the accepted precedents of law, he was not guilty, inasmuch as the original act of taking
was innocent.

Another aspect of justice, upon which Fitzjames dwells in his books, was represented in his
practice. A judge, according to him, is not simply a logic machine working out intellectual
problems, but is the organ of the moral indignation of mankind. When, after a studiously fair
inquiry, a man had been proved to be a scoundrel, he became the proper object of wrath and
of the punishment by which such wrath is gratified. Fitzjames undeniably hated brutality, and
especially mean brutality; he thought that gross cruelty to women and children should be suppressed
by the lash, or, if necessary, by the gallows. His sentences, I am told, were not more severe
than those of other judges: though mention is made of one case in early days in which he was
thought to be too hard upon a ruffian who, on coming out of gaol, had robbed a little child
of a sixpence. But his mode of passing sentence showed that his hatred of brutality included
hatred of brutes. He did not affect to be reluctant to do his duty. He did not explain that
he was acting for the real good of the prisoner, or apologise for being himself an erring mortal.
He showed rather the stern satisfaction of a man suppressing a noxious human reptile. Thus,
though he carefully avoided anything savouring of the theatrical, the downright simplicity
with which he delivered sentence showed the strength of his feeling. He never preached to the
convicts, but spoke in plain words of their atrocities. The most impressive sentence I ever
heard, says one of his sons, was one upon a wife-murderer at Norwich, when he rigidly confined
himself to pointing out the facts and the conclusiveness of the evidence. Another man was convicted
at Manchester of an attempt to murder his wife. He had stabbed her several times in the neck,
but happened to miss a fatal spot; and he cross-examined her very brutally on the trial. Fitzjames,
in delivering sentence, told him that a man who had done the same thing, but with better aim,
'stood at the last assizes where you now stand, before the judge who is now sentencing you.
The sentence upon him was that he should be hanged by the neck till he was dead, and he was
hanged by the neck till he was dead.' The words emphatically pronounced produced a dead silence,
with sobs from the women in court. It was, he proceeded, by a mere accident that the result
of the prisoner's crime was different, and that, therefore, the gravest sentence was the only
proper sentence; and that is 'that you be kept in penal servitude for the term of your natural
life.' This again was spoken with extreme earnestness: and the 'life' sounded like a blow.
There was a scream from the women, and the prisoner dropped to the ground as if he had been
actually struck. Fitzjames spoke as if he were present at the crime, and uttering the feelings
roused by the ferocious treatment of a helpless woman.

Some of his letters record his sense of painful responsibility when the question arose as to
reprieving a prisoner. He mentions a case in which he had practically had to decide in favour
of carrying out a capital sentence. 'For a week before,' he writes, 'I had the horrible feeling
of watching the man sinking, and knowing that I had only to hold out my hand to save his life.
I felt as if I could see his face and hear him say, "Let me live; I am only thirty-five; see
what a strong, vigorous, active fellow I am, with perhaps fifty years before me: must I die?"
and I mentally answered, Yes, you must. I had no real doubts and I feel no remorse; but it
was a very horrible feeling--all the worse because when one has a strong theoretical opinion
in favour of capital punishment one is naturally afraid of being unduly hard upon a particular
wretch to whom it is one's lot to apply the theory.' On another occasion he describes a consultation
upon a similar case with Sir W. Harcourt, then Home Secretary. Both of them felt painfully
the contrast with their old free conversations, and discussed the matter with the punctilious
ceremony corresponding to the painfulness of the occasion. There was something, as they were
conscious, incongruous in settling a question of life and death in a talk between two old friends.

I must briefly mention two such cases which happened to excite public attention. On July 27
and 28, 1887, a man named Lipski was tried for a most brutal murder and convicted. His attorney
wrote a pamphlet disputing the sufficiency of the evidence.[190] Fitzjames was trying a difficult
patent case which took up the next fortnight (August 1 to 13). He saw the attorney on Monday,
the 8th, and passed that evening and the next morning in writing his opinion to the Home Secretary
(Mr. H. Matthews). On Thursday he had another interview with the attorney and a thorough discussion
of the whole matter with Mr. Matthews. Some points had not been properly brought out on the
trial; but the inquiry only strengthened the effect of the evidence. Mr. Matthews decided not
to interfere, and Fitzjames went to stay with Froude at Salcombe on the Saturday. Meanwhile
articles full of gross misstatements had appeared in certain newspapers. Fitzjames himself
reflected that his occupation with the patent case had perhaps prevented his giving a full
consideration to the case, and that an immediate execution of the sentence would at least have
an appearance of undue haste. He therefore telegraphed to suggest a week's respite, though
he felt that the action might look like yielding to the bullying of a journalist. Mr. Matthews
had independently granted a respite upon a statement that a new piece of evidence could be
produced. Fitzjames returned on the Monday, and spent a great part of the week in reading through
all the papers, reexamining a witness, and holding consultations with Mr. Matthews. The newspapers
were still writing, and 100 members of Parliament signed a request for a commutation of the
sentence. After the most careful consideration, however, Fitzjames could entertain no reasonable
doubt of the rightness of the verdict, and Mr. Matthews agreed with him. A petition from three
jurors was sent in upon Sunday, the 21st, but did not alter the case. Finally, upon the same
afternoon, Lipski confessed his guilt and the sentence was executed next day. 'I hope and believe
that I have kept the right path,' writes Fitzjames, 'but it has been a most dreadful affair.'
'I hardly ever remember so infamous and horrible a story.' He was proportionally relieved when
it was proved that he had acted rightly.

The other case, for obvious reasons, must be mentioned as briefly as possible. On August 7,
1889, Mrs. Maybrick was convicted of the murder of her husband. The sentence was afterwards
commuted with Fitzjames's approval, and, I believe, at his suggestion, to penal servitude for
life, upon the ground, as publicly stated, that although there was no doubt that she had administered
poison, it was possible that her husband had died from other causes. A great deal of feeling
was aroused: Fitzjames was bitterly attacked in the press, and received many anonymous letters
full of the vilest abuse. Hatred of women generally, and jealousy of the counsel for the defence
were among the causes of his infamous conduct suggested by these judicious correspondents.
I, of course, have nothing to say upon these points, nor would I say anything which would have
any bearing upon the correctness of the verdict. But as attacks were made in public organs
upon his behaviour as judge, I think it right to say that they were absolutely without foundation.
His letters show that he felt the responsibility deeply; and that he kept his mind open till
the last. From other evidence I have not the least doubt that his humanity and impartiality
were as conspicuous in this as in other cases, and I believe were not impugned by any competent
witnesses, even by those who might doubt the correctness of the verdict.

Fitzjames's powers were such as naturally gave him unsurpassed authority with juries in criminal
cases. A distinguished advocate was about to defend a prisoner upon two similar counts before
Fitzjames and another eminent judge. The man was really guilty: but, said the counsel, and
his prediction was verified, I shall obtain a verdict of 'not guilty' before the other judge,
but not before Stephen. In civil cases, I am told that an impartial estimate of his merits
would require more qualification. The aversion to technicality and over-subtlety, to which
I have so often referred, appears to have limited his powers. He did not enjoy for its own
sake the process of finding a clue through a labyrinth of refined distinctions, and would have
preferred a short cut to what seemed to him the substantial merits of the case. He might, for
example, regard with some impatience the necessity of interpreting the precise meaning of some
clause in a legal document which had been signed by the parties concerned as a matter of routine,
without their attention being drawn to the ambiguities latent in their agreement. His experience
had not made him familiar with the details of commercial business, and he had to acquire the
necessary information rather against the grain. To be a really great lawyer in the more technical
sense, a man must, I take it, have a mind full of such knowledge, and feel pleasure in exercising
the dialectical faculty by which it is applied to new cases. In that direction Fitzjames was
probably surpassed by some of his brethren; and he contributed nothing of importance to the
elaboration of the more technical parts of the law. I find, however, that his critics are agreed
in ascribing to him with remarkable unanimity the virtue of 'open-mindedness.' His trenchant
way of laying down his conclusions might give the impression that they corresponded to rooted
prejudices. Such prejudices might of course intrude themselves unconsciously into his mind,
as they intrude into the minds of most of us. But no one could be more anxious for fair play
in argument as in conduct. He would give up a view shown to be erroneous with a readiness which
often seemed surprising in so sturdy a combatant. He spared no pains in acquiring whatever
was relevant to a case; whether knowledge of unfamiliar facts or of legal niceties and previous
judicial decisions. Though his mind was not stored with great masses of cases, he never grudged
the labour of a long investigation. He aimed at seeing the case as a whole; and bringing out
distinctly the vital issues and their relation to broad principles. He used to put the issues
before the jury as distinctly as possible, and was then indifferent to their decision. In a
criminal case he would have been inexpressibly shocked by a wrongful conviction, and would
have felt that he had failed in his duty if a conviction had not taken place when the evidence
was sufficient. In a civil case, he felt that he had done his work when he had secured fair
play by a proper presentation of the question to the jury. His mastery of the laws of evidence
would give weight to his opinion upon facts; though how far he might be open to the charge
of cutting too summarily knots which might have been untied by more dexterity and a loving
handling of legal niceties, is a question upon which I cannot venture to speak positively.

I will only venture to refer to two judgments, which may be read with interest even by the
unprofessional, as vigorous pieces of argument and lucid summaries of fact. One is the case
(1880) of the 'Attorney-General v. the Edison Telephone Company,'[191] in which the question
arose whether a telephonic message was a telegram. If so, the Company were infringing the act
which gave to the Post Office the monopoly of transmitting telegrams. It was argued that the
telephone transmitted the voice itself, not a mere signal. Fitzjames pointed out that it might
be possible to hear both the voice transmitted through the air and the sound produced by the
vibrations of the wire. Could the two sounds, separated by an interval, be one sound? The legal
point becomes almost metaphysical. On this and other grounds Fitzjames decided that a telephone
was a kind of telegraph, and the decision has not been disturbed. The other case was that of
the Queen v. Price,[192] tried at Cardiff in 1883. William Price, who called himself a Druid,
was an old gentleman of singularly picturesque appearance who had burnt the body of his child
in conformity, I presume, with what he took to be the rites of the Druids. He was charged with
misdemeanour. Fitzjames gave a careful summary of the law relating to burials which includes
some curious history. He concluded that there was no positive law against burning bodies, unless
the mode of burning produced a nuisance. The general principle, therefore, applied that nothing
should be a crime which was not distinctly forbidden by law. The prisoner was acquitted, and
the decision has sanctioned the present practice of cremation. Fitzjames, as I gather from
letters, was much interested in the quaint old Druid, and was gratified by his escape from the law.

IV. MISCELLANEOUS OCCUPATIONS

I have now described the most important labours which Fitzjames undertook after his appointment
to a judgeship. Every minute of the first six years (1879-85) might seem to have been provided
with ample occupation. Even during this period, however, he made time for a few short excursions
into other matters, and though after 1885 he undertook no heavy task, he was often planning
the execution of the old projects, and now and then uttering his opinions through the accustomed
channels. He was also carrying on a correspondence, some of which has been kindly shown to
me. The correspondence with Lord Lytton continued, though it naturally slackened during Lytton's
stay in England, from 1880 to 1887. It revived, though not so full and elaborate as of old,
when, in 1887, Lytton became ambassador at Paris. Fitzjames's old friend, Grant Duff, was Governor
of Madras from 1881 to 1886, and during that period especially, Fitzjames wrote very fully
to Lady Grant Duff, who was also a correspondent both before and afterwards. If I had thought
it desirable to publish any number of these or the earlier letters, I might have easily swelled
this book to twice or three times its size. That is one good reason for abstaining. Other reasons
are suggested by the nature of the letters themselves. They are written with the utmost frankness,
generally poured out at full speed in intervals of business or some spare moments of his so-called
vacation. They made no pretensions to literary form, and approach much more to discursive conversations
than to anything that suggests deliberate composition. Much of them, of course, is concerned
with private matters which it would be improper to publish. A large part, again, discusses
in an unguarded fashion the same questions of which he had spoken more deliberately in his
books. There is no difference in the substance, and I have thought it only fair to him to take
his own published version of his opinions, using his letters here and there where they incidentally
make his views clearer or qualify sharp phrases used in controversy. I have, however, derived
certain impressions from the letters of this period and from the miscellaneous articles of
the same time; which I shall endeavour to describe before saying what remains to be said of
his own personal history.

One general remark is suggested by a perusal of the letters. Fitzjames says frequently and
emphatically that he had had one of the happiest of lives. In the last letter of his which
I have seen, written, indeed, when writing had become difficult for him, he says that he is
'as happy as any man can be,' and had nothing to complain of--except, indeed, his illegible
handwriting. This is only a repetition of previous statements at every period of his life.
When he speaks of the twenty-five years of long struggle, which had enabled him to rise from
the bar to the bench, he adds that they were most happy years, and that he only wishes that
they could come over again. It is difficult, of course, to compare our lot with that of our
neighbours. We can imagine ourselves surrounded by their circumstances, but we cannot so easily
adopt their feelings. Fitzjames very possibly made an erroneous estimate of the pains and pleasures
which require sensibilities unlike his own; and conversely it must be remembered that he took
delight in what would to many men be a weariness of the flesh. The obviously sincere belief,
however, in his own happiness proves at least one thing. He was thoroughly contented with his
own position. He was never brooding over vexations, or dreaming of what might have been. Could
he have been asked by Providence at any time, Where shall I place you? his answer would almost
always have been, Here. He gives, indeed, admirable reasons for being satisfied. He had superabundant
health and strength, he scarcely knew what it was to be tired, though he seemed always to be
courting fatigue, or, if tired, he was only tired enough to enjoy the speedy reaction. His
affections had a strength fully proportioned to his vigour of mind and body; his domestic happiness
was perfect; and he had a small circle of friends both appreciative and most warmly appreciated.
Finally, if the outside world was far from being all that he could wish, it was at least superabundantly
full of interest. Though indifferent to many matters which occupy men of different temperament,
he had quite enough not only to keep his mind actively engaged, but to suggest indefinite horizons
of future inquiry of intense interest. He was in no danger of being bored or suffering from
a famine of work. Under such conditions, he could not help being happy.

Yet Fitzjames's most decided convictions would have suited a thorough-going pessimist. Neither
Swift nor Carlyle could have gone much beyond him in condemning the actual state of the political
or religious condition of the world. Things, on the whole, were in many directions going from
bad to worse. The optimist is apt to regard these views as wicked, and I do not know whether
it will be considered as an aggravation or an extenuation of his offence that, holding such
opinions, Fitzjames could be steadily cheerful. I simply state the fact. His freedom from the
constitutional infirmities which embittered both the great men I have mentioned, and his incomparably
happier domestic circumstances, partly account for the difference. But, moreover, it was an
essential part of his character to despise all whining. There was no variety of person with
whom he had less sympathy than the pessimist whose lamentations suggest a disordered liver.
He would have fully accepted the doctrine upon which Mr. Herbert Spencer has insisted, that
it is a duty to be happy. Moreover, the way to be happy was to work. Work, I might almost say,
was his religion. 'Be strong and of a good courage' was the ultimate moral which he drew from
doubts and difficulties. Everything round you may be in a hideous mess and jumble. That cannot
be helped: take hold of your tools manfully; set to work upon the job that lies next to your
hand, and so long as you are working well and vigorously, you will not be troubled with the
vapours. Be content with being yourself, and leave the results to fate. Sometimes with his
odd facility for turning outwards the ugliest side of his opinions, he would call this selfishness.
It is a kind of selfishness which, if everyone practised it, would not be such a bad thing.

I must mention, though briefly, certain writings which represent his views upon religious matters:
I have sufficiently indicated his position, which was never materially changed. His thoughts
ran in the old grooves, though perhaps with a rather clearer perception of their direction.
In June 1884 he published an article upon the 'Unknown and the Unknowable' in the 'Nineteenth
Century,' declaring that Mr. Herbert Spencer's 'Unknowable' and Mr. Harrison's 'Humanity' were
mere shadowy figments. 'Religion,' he maintains, will not survive theology. To this, however,
he adds, with rather surprising calmness, that morality will survive religion. If the Agnostics
and Positivists triumph, it will be transformed, not abolished. The Christian admiration for
self-sacrifice, indeed, and the Christian mysticism will disappear, and it will turn out that
the respectable man of the world and the lukewarm believer were after all in the right. Considering
his own dislike to the mystic and the priestly view of things, this might almost seem to imply
a reconciliation with the sceptics. He observes, indeed, in a letter that there is really little
difference between himself and Mr. Harrison, except in Mr. Harrison's more enthusiastic view
of human nature. But he confesses also that the article has given pleasure to his enemies and
pain to his friends. Though his opinions, in short, are sceptical, the consequences seem to
him so disagreeable that he has no desire to insist upon them. In fact, he wrote little more
upon these topics. He was, indeed, afterwards roused to utterance by an ingenious attempt of
Mr. Mivart to show a coincidence between full submission to the authority of the Catholic Church
and an equal acceptance of the authority of reason. In a couple of articles in the 'Nineteenth
Century' (October 1887 and January 1888), he argued with his old vigour that Mr. Mivart was
in fact proposing to put a match in a powder barrel and expect half to explode and the other
half to remain unaffected. This was his last encounter upon the old question of authority.
In the same year (April and May 1888) he wrote two articles upon a book by which he was singularly
interested, Professor Max Müller's 'Science of Thought'; he expounds Professor Max Müller's
philology in the tone of an ardent disciple, but makes his own application to philosophy. I
do not suppose that the teacher would accept all the deductions of his follower. Fitzjames,
in fact, found in the 'Science of Thought' a scientific exposition of the nominalism which
he had more or less consciously accepted from Hobbes or Horne Tooke. Max Müller, he says, in
a letter, has been knocking out the bottom of all speculative theology and philosophy. Thought
and language, as he understands his teacher to maintain, are identical. Now language is made
up of about 120 roots combined in various ways. The words supposed to express more abstract
conceptions, some of them highly important in theology, are mere metaphors founded upon previous
metaphors, twisted and changed in meaning from century to century. Nothing remains but an almost
absolute scepticism, for on such terms no certainty can be obtained. In a letter he states
that the only problems which we can really solve are those of space and number; that even astronomy
involves assumptions to which there are 'unanswerable objections'; that what is loosely called
science, Darwinism, for example, is 'dubious in the extreme'; that theology and politics are
so conjectural as to be practically worthless; and judicial and historical evidence little
more than a makeshift. In short, his doctrine is 'scepticism directed more particularly against
modern science and philosophy.' I do not take these hasty utterances as expressing a settled
state of opinion. I only quote them as vehement expressions of an instinctive tendency. His
strong conviction of the fallacies and immoralities of the old theological dogmatism was combined
with an equally strong conviction of the necessity of some embodiment of the religious instincts
and of the impotence of the scientific dogmatism to supply it. He therefore was led to a peculiar
version of the not uncommon device of meeting the sceptic by a more thorough-going scepticism.
It is peculiar because he scorned to take the further step of accepting a dogmatic belief on
sceptical grounds; but it certainly left him in a position of which silence was, if I may say
so, the only obvious expression of his feeling.

One curious illustration of his feelings is given by an utterance at the beginning of this
period. Nobody had less tendency to indulge in versification. When a man has anything to say,
he observes to Lord Lytton on one occasion, as an excuse for not criticising his friend adequately,
'I am always tempted to ask why he cannot say it in plain prose.' I find now that he once wrote
some lines on circuit, putting a judgment into rhyme, and that they were read with applause
at a dinner before the judges. They have disappeared; but I can quote part of his only other
attempt at poetry. Tennyson's poem called 'Despair' had just appeared in the 'Nineteenth Century'
for November 1881. The hero, it will be remembered, maddened by sermons about hell and by 'know-nothing'
literature, throws himself into the sea with his wife and is saved by his preacher. The rescuer
only receives curses instead of thanks. Fitzjames supplies the preacher's retort.[193] I give
a part; omitting a few lines which, I think, verged too much on the personal:--

   So you're minded to curse me, are you, for not having let you be,
   And for taking the trouble to pull you out when your wife was drowned
     in the sea?
   I'm inclined to think you are right--there was not much sense in it;
   But there was no time to think--the thing was done in a minute.
   You had not gone very far in; you had fainted where you were found,
   You're the sort of fellow that likes to drown with his toe on the
     ground.
   However, you turn upon me and my creed with all sorts of abuse,
   As if any preaching of mine could possibly be of use
   To a man who refused to see what sort of a world he had got
   To live in and make the best of, whether he liked it or not.
   I am not sure what you mean; you seem to mean to say
   That believing in hell you were happy, but that one unfortunate day
   You found out you knew nothing about it, whereby the troubles of life
   Became at once too heavy to bear for yourself and your wife.
   That sounds silly; so, perhaps, you may mean that all is wrong all
     round,
   My creed and the know-nothing books, and that truth is not to be
     found--
   That's sillier still: for, if so, the know-nothing books are right,
   And you're a mere spiritless cur who can neither run nor fight,
   Too great a coward to live and too great a coward to die,
   Fit for nothing at all but just to sit down and cry.

   .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .

   Why, man, we're all in one boat, as everyone can see,
   Bishops, and priests, and deacons, and poor little ranters like me.
   There's hell in the Church of England and hell in the Church of Rome,
   And in all other Christian Churches, abroad as well as at home.
   The part of my creed you dislike may be too stern for you,
   Many brave men believe it--aye, and enjoy life, too.
   The know-nothing books may alarm you; but many a better man
   Knows he knows nothing and says so, and lives the best life he can.
   If there is a future state, face its hopes and terrors gravely;
   The best path to it must be to bear life's burthens bravely.
   And even if there be none, why should you not live like a man,
   Enjoying whatever you have as much and as long as you can?
   In the world in which we are living there's plenty to do and to know;
   And there's always something to hope for till it's time for us to go.
   'Despair' is the vilest of words, unfit to be said or thought,
   Whether there is a God and a future state or not.
   If you really are such a wretch, that you're quite unfit to live,
   And ask my advice, I'll give you the best that I have to give:
   Drown yourself by all means; I was wrong and you were right.
   I'll not pull you out any more; but be sure you drown yourself quite.

'Despair is the vilest of words.' That expresses Fitzjames's whole belief and character. Faiths
may be shaken and dogmas fade into meaningless jumbles of words: science may be unable to supply
any firm ground for conduct. Still we can quit ourselves like men. From doubt and darkness
he can still draw the practical conclusion, 'Be strong and of a good courage.' And, therefore,
Fitzjames could not be a pessimist in the proper sense; for the true pessimist is one who despairs
of the universe. Such a man can only preach resignation to inevitable evil, and his best hope
is extinction. Sir Alfred Lyall's fine poem describes the Hindoo ascetic sitting by the bank
of the sacred stream and watching the legions as they pass while cannon roar and bayonets gleam.
To him they are disturbing phantoms, and he longs for the time when they will flicker away
like the smoke of the guns on the windswept hill. He meanwhile sits 'musing and fasting and
hoping to die.' Fitzjames is the precise antithesis: his heart was with the trampling legions,
and for the ascetic he might feel pity, but certainly neither sympathy nor respect. He goes
out of his way more than once to declare that he sees nothing sublime in Buddhism. 'Nirvana,'
he says in a letter, 'always appeared to me to be at bottom a cowardly ideal. For my part I
like far better the Carlyle or Calvinist notion of the world as a mysterious hall of doom,
in which one must do one's fated part to the uttermost, acting and hoping for the best and
trusting' that somehow or other our admiration of the 'noblest human qualities' will be justified.
He had thus an instinctive dislike not only for Buddhism, but for the strain of similar sentiment
in ascetic versions of Christianity. He had a great respect for Mohammedanism, and remarks
that of all religious ceremonies at which he had been present, those which had most impressed
him had been a great Mohammedan feast in India and the service in a simple Scottish kirk. There,
as I interpret him, worshippers seem to be in the immediate presence of the awful and invisible
Power which rules the universe; and without condescending to blind themselves by delusive symbols
and images and incense and priestly magic, stand face to face with the inscrutable mystery.
The old Puritanism comes out in a new form. The Calvinist creed, he says in 'Liberty, Equality,
Fraternity,' was the 'grain on which the bravest, hardiest, and most vigorous race of men that
ever trod the earth were nourished.' That creed, stripped of its scholastic formulas, was sufficient
nourishment for him. He sympathises with it wherever he meets it. He is fond of quoting even
a rough blackguard, one Azy Smith, who, on being summoned to surrender to a policeman, replied
by sentencing 'Give up' to a fate which may be left to the imagination. Fitzjames applied the
sentiment to the British Empire in India. He was curiously impressed, too, by some verses which
he found in an Australian newspaper and was afterwards given to quoting. They turned out to
be written by Adam Lindsay Gordon (the 'Sick Stockrider').

I am perfectly well aware of the comments which that statement may suggest. The orthodox may,
if they please, draw a moral for their own tastes; and I could draw a moral which is not quite
orthodox. I only say that I have tried to describe his final position in the matter, without
reserve; and that, in my opinion, whatever else it shows, it reveals both the sincerity and
the manliness of a man who dared to look facts in the face.

I must speak, though briefly, of his political sympathies in this period, for they were exceedingly
deep and strong. His position as a judge gave him the solace of an employment which could divert
his mind from annoying reflections. It may be held that it should also have restrained him
more completely than it did from taking any part in party controversies. I confess that to
be my own opinion. He felt that he ought to keep within limits; but I cannot help thinking
that they might have been a little closer than he would quite acknowledge. The old journalistic
impulse, however, stirred within him when he saw certain political moves, and he found it impossible
quite to keep silence. The first occasion of his writing was upon the starting of the 'St.
James's Gazette,' under the editorship of his old friend Mr. Greenwood. Both personal and political
sympathy induced him, as he put it, 'to take Mr. Greenwood's shilling,' and I believe that
he also enlisted Maine. Besides the poem which I have quoted, he wrote a good many articles
upon legal and literary topics from 1881 to 1883, and some which came very close to contemporary
politics. The doctrine may be pretty well summed up in the phrase which he quotes more than
once--[Greek: Dêmos psêphizôn megalên archên dialysei.] I need not follow the applications
which he indicates both to Indian matters and to Mr. Gladstone's Irish policy.

He ceased to contribute after the beginning of 1883, but he wrote occasional letters under
his own name to the 'Times.' The chief of these (I believe that there were others) were reprinted,
and attracted some notice. In 1883 a question arose in which he had a special interest. In
passing the Criminal Procedure Bill he had accepted what was described as a compromise. Magistrates
were to receive powers of dealing summarily in trifling cases with Europeans who had previously
had a right to be tried by juries before the High Courts. Fitzjames accepted the proposal that
the power should be entrusted only to magistrates of European birth. The 'Ilbert Bill,' in
1883, proposed to remove this restriction, and so to confer a right of imprisoning Europeans
for three months upon native magistrates, of whom there were now a greater number. Fitzjames,
whose name had been mentioned in the controversy, wrote very earnestly against this proposal.[194]
He asserted the right of Englishmen to be tried by magistrates who could understand their ways
of thought, and approved the remark that if we were to remove all anomalies from India, our
first step should be to remove ourselves. This, however, was, to his mind, only one example
of the intrusion of an evil principle. A more serious case occurred upon Mr. Gladstone's introduction
of the first Home Rule Bill in 1886. Fitzjames wrote some elaborate letters upon the 'Irish
Question,' when the measure was anticipated, and wrote again upon the bill when the debates
upon Mr. Gladstone's proposals were in progress.[195] The letters begin by disavowing any 'party
politics'--a phrase which he does not consider to exclude an emphatic expression of opinion
both upon Home Rule and upon the Land Legislation. It is entirely superfluous to summarise
arguments which have been repeated till nobody can want to hear more of them. Briefly, I may
say that Fitzjames's teaching might be summarised by saying that Ireland ought to be governed
like India--justly, and in any case firmly. The demands both for Home Rule and for land legislation
are, according to him, simply corollaries from the general principles of Jacobinism and Socialism.
The empire will be destroyed and the landlords will be plundered. Virtually we are dealing
with a simple attempt at confiscation supported by an organised system of crime. The argument
is put with his usual downright force, and certainly shows no symptoms of any decline of intellectual
vigour. He speaks, he says, impelled by the 'shame and horror' which an Englishman must feel
at our feebleness, and asks whether we are cowards to be kicked with impunity? Sometimes he
hoped, though his hopes were not sanguine, that a point would yet be reached at which Englishmen
would be roused and would show their old qualities. But as a rule he turned, as his letters
show, from the contemplation of modern politics with simple disgust. He is glad that he is,
for the time at least, behind a safe breakwater, but no one can say how much longer it will
withstand the advancing deluge.

Three months' rest after the attack of 1885 enabled him to go the summer circuit, and during
the latter part of the year he was recovering strength. He became so much better that he was,
perhaps, encouraged to neglect desirable precautions, and early in 1886 he writes that he has
been able to dismiss from his mind a passing fear which had been vaguely present, that he might
have to resign. In the following September, Mr. W. H. Smith requested him to become chairman
of a Commission to inquire into the Ordnance Department. What he learnt in that capacity strengthened
his conviction as to the essential weakness of our administrative system; although the rumours
of corruption, to which, I believe, the Commission was owing, were disproved. He made, however,
such suggestions as seemed practicable under the circumstances. While the Commission lasted
he presided three days a week, and sat as judge upon the other three. He felt himself so competent
to do his duties as to confirm his belief that he had completely recovered. He did a certain
amount of literary work after this. He made one more attempt to produce a second edition of
the 'View of the Criminal Law.' Indeed, the title-page gives that name to his performance.
Once more, however, he found it impossible to refrain from re-writing. The so-called second
edition is more properly an abbreviated version of the 'History,' though the reports of trials
still keep their place; and, as the whole forms only one moderately thick volume, it represents
much less labour than its predecessors. It includes, however, the result of some later inquiries
and of his judicial experience. He abandons, for example, an opinion which he had previously
maintained in favour of a Court of Appeal in criminal cases, and is now satisfied with the
existing system. In this shape it is virtually a handbook for students, forming an accompaniment
to the 'Digest' and the 'History.' It was the last of his works upon legal topics.

Meanwhile, if he wrote little, he was still reading a great variety of books, and was deeply
interested in them. His letters are full of references to various authors, old and new. His
criticisms have the primary merits of frankness and independence. He says exactly what he feels,
not what the critics tell him that he ought to feel. No criticism can be really valuable which
does not fulfil those conditions. I must admit, however, that a collection of his remarks would
include a good many observations rather startling to believers in the conventional judgments.
Purely literary qualities impress him very little unless they are associated with some serious
purpose. He shows the same sort of independence which enabled him to accept a solitary position
in religious and political matters. In private letters, moreover, he does not think it necessary
to insist upon the fact, which he would have fully admitted, that the great object of criticism
is always the critic himself. A man who says that he can't see, generally proves that he is
blind, not that there is no light. If only for this reason, I would not quote phrases which
would sound unduly crude or even arrogant when taken as absolute judgments, instead of being,
as they often are, confessions of indifference in the form of condemnations. When a great writer
really appeals to him, he shows no want of enthusiasm. During the enforced rest in 1885 he
studied Spanish with great zeal; he calls it a 'glorious language,' and had the proverbial
reward of being enabled to read 'Don Quixote' in the original. 'Don Quixote,' he says, had
always attracted him, even in the translations, to a degree for which he cannot quite account.
His explanation, however, is apparently adequate, and certainly characteristic. He sees in
Cervantes a man of noble and really chivalrous nature, who looks kindly upon the extravagance
which caricatures his own qualities, but also sees clearly that the highest morality is that
which is in conformity with plain reason and common sense. Beneath the ridicule of the romances
there is the strongest sympathy with all that is really noble.

After Spanish and Cervantes, Fitzjames turned to Italian and Dante. Dante, too, roused his
enthusiasm, and he observes, quaintly enough, that he means to be as familiar with the 'Divina
Commedia' as he once was with Bentham--two authors rarely brought into contact. Dante conquered
him the more effectually by entering over the ruins of Milton. Some years before he had pronounced
the 'Paradise Lost' to be 'poor, contradictory, broken-down stuff, so far as the story goes.'
He inferred that 'poetry was too slight an affair to grapple with such an awful subject.' He
had, however, already read Dante in Cary's translation, and thereby recognised something far
greater. When he came to the original he was profoundly impressed. It is strange, he says,
that he has learnt for the first time at the age of sixty what a really great poem could be.
Poor Milton's adaptation of pagan mythology to the Hebrew legends, in order to expound Puritan
theology, results in a series of solecisms, which even the poet could not expect his readers
to take seriously. The story, taken for history, certainly breaks down sufficiently to justify
a severe remark. But Dante's poem, embodying a consistent imagery into which was worked the
whole contemporary philosophy and theology, is of absorbing interest even to those who are
comparatively indifferent to its more purely literary merits. Fitzjames does not make any detailed
criticisms, but fittingly expresses his astonishment and admiration upon Dante's revelation
of a new world of imagination. I think that it is possible to show fitting reverence for Dante
without deposing Milton from his much lower, though still very lofty place. But to one brought
up in the old English traditions it was difficult to avoid the rather superfluous contrast.

With the help of such studies and frequent visits to old friends, and minor literary tasks,
Fitzjames could find ample means of filling up any spaces left by his judicial duties. In spite
of the disgust with which he regarded the political world, he was happy in his own little world;
and his time passed in a peaceful round of satisfactory work. A few troublesome cases, those
especially of which I have spoken, gave him occasional worry; but he could adhere to his principle
of never fretting unnecessarily. But now was to begin the painful experience which comes to
the survivors when the ranks begin to thin. He felt such losses deeply, if with little display
of feeling. I find a remark in one of his letters which is, I think, characteristic. He says
that his first feeling upon a severe blow had been something like shame at not suffering more.
But in a few weeks the sense of loss had become deeper and stronger; and he had to remind himself
of the necessity of conquering his depression. I have no need, I hope, to dwell upon the strength
of his affections. I can never forget one occasion when his sympathies were deeply stirred;
and when his sense of a certain awkwardness in expressing himself, a relic of his old prejudice
against 'sentimentalism,' served only to bring out most pathetically the power of the emotions
with which he was struggling.

Two severe losses marked the year 1888. Maine died on February 3. The old friendship had lost
none of its warmth; and Fitzjames had frequently enjoyed visits to the lodge at Trinity Hall,
where Maine, as master, presided over the Christmas gatherings. Fitzjames commemorated his
friend by an article in the 'Saturday Review.[196] In a warm eulogy, he praises the 'clearness
and sobriety of Maine's generalisations as well as their intrinsic probability,' and declares
that the books were written 'as if by inspiration.' Maine, he says, was equally brilliant as
a journalist, as a statesman, and as a thinker. Fitzjames speaks, though a little restrained
by his usual reserve, of the 'brotherly intimacy of forty years, never interrupted by a passing
cloud'; and ends by saying that there are 'persons to whom the world can never have the same
aspect again as when Maine lived in it.' It had been a great pleasure, I may add, that he had
been able to appoint one of his friend's sons, who died soon after the father, to a clerkship
of assize on the South Wales circuit.

In the autumn Maine was followed by Venables. Fitzjames paid an annual visit to the house where
Venables lived with his brother at Llysdinam, on the border of Radnorshire. He often mentions
in his letters the filial affection with which he regarded Venables. In the previous year (1887)
he had an opportunity of expressing this more directly than usual. One of Venables' friends,
Mr. Pember, had suggested that they might show their affection by presenting a stained glass
window to a church which Venables had built. Fitzjames took up the plan warmly, and with the
help of a few other friends carried out the scheme. When it was made known to Venables, who
of course was much gratified, Fitzjames wrote to him a letter (August 1, 1887) of which I quote
the important part. 'I found your letter on my return from the country this morning. You are
quite right in thinking that I did say a great deal less than I meant. I feel shy in putting
into quite plain words what I feel about you; but I do not like such things to prevent me from
saying just once that I like you, honour you, and respect and admire you more than almost any
man I ever knew. For nearer forty than thirty years you have been to me a sort of spiritual
and intellectual uncle or elder brother, and my feelings about you have constantly grown and
strengthened as my own experience of men and books has ripened and deepened and brought me
into closer and closer sympathy with you and more complete conscious agreement with all your
opinions and sentiments. I can recall none of your words and writings which I have not cordially
approved of, and I shall always feel deeply grateful to Mrs. Lyster Venables (Venables' sister-in-law),
for whom also I feel the warmest friendship, and to Pember for suggesting to me a way of showing
my feelings about you, which would never have occurred to a person so abundantly gifted with
clumsy shyness as myself. However, I do not believe you will like me the worse for having the
greatest possible difficulty in writing to any man such a letter as this.'

The three lights of the window, representing Moses, Aaron, and Joshua, were intended as portraits
of Venables and his two brothers. Beneath was the inscription suggested by Mr. Pember, 'Conditori
hujus ecclesiæ amicissimi quidam.' Fitzjames adds that he had felt 'a passing wish' to add
his favourite words, 'Be strong and of a good courage,' which, at his suggestion, Dean Stanley
had taken as the text for a funeral sermon upon Lord Lawrence. I will only add that Fitzjames
had said in private letters substantially what he said to Venables himself. On October 8, 1888,
he heard of his old friend's death, and again wrote an article of warm appreciation in the
'Saturday Review.'

V. JAMES KENNETH STEPHEN

I have now to give a brief notice of events which had a saddening influence upon the later
years. Fitzjames, as I have remarked, had seen comparatively little of his elder children in
their infancy. As they grew up, however, they had been fully admitted to his intimacy and treated
on the footing of trusted and reasonable friends. The two younger daughters had been playthings
in their infancy, and grew up in an atmosphere of warm domestic affection. Just before Venables'
death Fitzjames made a little tour in the West of Ireland with his daughter Rosamond, who has
preserved a little account of it. I shall only say that it proves that she had a delightful
travelling companion; and that his straightforward ways enabled him to be on the friendliest
terms with the natives whom he encountered. Among the frequent declarations of the happiness
of his life, he constantly observes that one main condition was that his children had never
given him a moment's uneasiness. Two, indeed, had died in infancy; and Frances, a very promising
girl, had died of rheumatic fever July 27, 1880. Such troubles, however deeply felt, cannot
permanently lessen the happiness of a healthy and energetic life. His three sons grew into
manhood; they all became barristers, and had all acted at different times as his marshals.
I shall say nothing of the survivors; but I must speak briefly of the one who died before his
father.

James Kenneth Stephen was born on February 25, 1859.[197] His second name commemorates his
father's friendship for his godfather, Kenneth Macaulay. He was a healthy lad, big and strong,
and soon showed much intellectual promise. He was at the school of Mr. William Browning at
Thorpe Mandeville; and in 1871 won a foundation scholarship at Eton, where he became the pupil
of Mr. Oscar Browning, the brother of his former master. He already gave promise of unusual
physical strength, and of the good looks which in later years resulted from the singular combination
of power and sweetness in his features. The head of his division was H. C. Goodhart, afterwards
Professor of Latin at the University of Edinburgh.[198] Other boys in the division were George
Curzon and Cecil Spring Rice. James was surpassed in scholarship by several of his friends,
but enjoyed a high reputation for talent among his cleverest contemporaries. The school, it
appears, was not quite so much absorbed by the worship of athletics as was sometimes imagined.
James, however, rowed for two years in the boats, while his weight and strength made him especially
formidable at the peculiar Eton game of football 'at the wall.' The collegers, when supported
by his prowess, had the rare glory of defeating the Oppidans twice in succession. He was ever
afterwards fond of dilating with humorous enthusiasm upon the merits of that game, and delighted
in getting up an eleven of old Etonians to play his successors in the school. He was, however,
more remarkable for intellectual achievements. With Mr. Spring Rice and another friend he wrote
the 'Etonian,' which lasted from May 1875 to August 1876; and several of the little poems which
he then wrote were collected afterwards in his 'Lapsus Calami.'[199] They are, of course, chiefly
in the humorous vein, but they show sufficiently that Eton was to him very different from what
it had been to his father. He was a thoroughly loyal and even enthusiastic Etonian; he satirises
a caviller by putting into his mouth the abominable sentiment--

   Ye bigot spires, ye Tory towers,
   That crown the watery lea,
   Where grateful science still adores
         The aristocracy.

His genuine feeling is given in the lines on 'My old School':--

   And if sometimes I've laughed in my rhymes at Eton,
     Whose glory I never could jeopardise,
   Yet I'd never a joy that I could not sweeten,
     Or a sorrow I could not exorcise,

   By the thought of my school and the brood that's bred there,
     Her bright boy faces and keen young life;
   And the manly stress of the hours that sped there,
     And the stirring pulse of her daily strife.

To the last he cherished the memory of the school, and carefully maintained his connection
with it. One odd incident occurred in 1875, when James got up a 'constitutional opposition'
to the intrusion of the revivalist preachers Moody and Sankey. His father wrote him a judicial
letter of advice, approving his action so long as it was kept within due limits. He takes occasion
to draw the moral that the whole power of such people depends upon the badness of their hearers'
consciences. A man who has nothing to hide, who is 'just, benevolent, temperate and brave,'
can 'look at things coolly and rate such people at their value.' Those 'few words' (i.e. the
names of the virtues) 'are the summary of all that is worth having in life. Never forget any
one of them for one moment, though you need not talk about them any more than you talk about
your watch.' James had a marked influence in the college; he was a leading orator in the school
debating societies; and his good sayings were as familiarly quoted as those of Sydney Smith
or Luttrell in the larger world. Mr. Cornish, who was his tutor for a time, tells me of the
charm of James's talk with his elders, and says that, although he was careless on some matters
upon which schoolmasters set a high value, he always showed power and originality. He won an
English Essay prize in 1875, the History prize in 1876 and 1877, the Declamation prize in 1878,
and was one of the 'select' for the Newcastle in 1877.

James went to King's with a scholarship in 1878. He gave up classics and took to history. He
took a first class (bracketed first in the class) in the historical tripos, but was only in
the second class in the law tripos. Besides prizes for college essays, he won the 'Member's
Prize' for an essay upon Bolingbroke in 1880, and the Whewell Scholarship for International
Law in 1881. He succeeded in every competition for which he really exerted himself; although,
like his father, he was rather indifferent to the regular course of academical instruction.
Among his contemporaries, however, he enjoyed the kind of fame which is perhaps of still better
augury for future success. King's College in his day, says Mr. Browning, was only emerging
slowly from the effects of its close dependence upon Eton. It had been in former days chiefly
a little clique of older schoolboys. James helped much to change this, and distinctly raised
the intellectual tone of the place. He was a well-known speaker at the Union, of which he was
president in 1882. He was an 'Apostle' too; and in May 1881 his father visited him in Cambridge,
and attended a meeting of the Society where James read a paper. Although, therefore, he scarcely
won such a share of academical honours as might have been expected, James was regarded by his
friends as the man of his time who was most definitely marked out for distinction in later
years. His friends, indeed, were innumerable; and from all with whom I have communicated there
is a unanimous testimony not only to his intellectual promise, but to his influence in promoting
a high tone of thought and feeling. His father's letters frequently refer to him. James, he
says, is a 'splendid young fellow'; he will surpass his father in due time, and be the fourth
distinguished man of his name. James, he says once, using the epithet which in his mouth conveyed
the highest praise, is a 'sturdier' fellow in many ways than I was, and writes better than
I could at his age. One achievement of the son rather extorted than attracted his father's
praise. He appeared in a Greek play as Ajax, a part for which his massive frame and generally
noble appearance fitted him admirably. The father admitted that he had a certain dislike to
a man's exhibiting himself personally, but was reconciled by observing that James acted more
like a gentleman amusing himself than like a professional performer.

How far these anticipations of success would ever have been fulfilled must remain uncertain.
James may not have had his father's extraordinary vigour, but he undoubtedly had one quality
in which his father was defective. He had a surprising facility in making friendly alliances
with all sorts and conditions of men. His opinions partly resembled his father's. In politics
he was of the Conservative tendency, and he was certainly not of the orthodox persuasion in
theology. But he was equally at ease with Tories and Home Rulers, Roman Catholics and Agnostics;
and his cheery, cordial manners put him at once on the best understanding with everybody. There
was something contagious in the enthusiasm of a young man who seemed so heartily to appreciate
the simple joy of living. Perhaps his weakness was to be a little too versatile in his sympathies
and interests.

After taking his degree, James spent some time in Germany and France. He was elected to a fellowship
at King's College in 1885, and as a candidate wrote dissertations upon 'Political Science'
and 'International Law.'[200] He was elected, it is said, as much upon the strength of his
general ability as for any special performance.

He was called to the bar in 1884, and naturally employed his spare time upon journalism. He
wrote a good deal for Mr. Greenwood in the 'St. James's Gazette,' and had extraordinary facility
as a writer. Mr. Reginald Smith tells me how James once wrote a leading article in the train
between Paddington and Maidenhead. Many of the little poems which he contributed to periodicals
were improvised. He was famous for wit and readiness as an after-dinner speaker; and showed
an oratorical power in electioneering speeches which gave the highest hopes of parliamentary
success. Indeed, from all that I have heard, I think that his powers in this direction made
the greatest impression upon his friends, and convinced them that if he could once obtain an
opening, he would make a conspicuous mark in public life.

At the end of 1886 he had an accident, the effects of which were far more serious than appeared
at the time. He was staying at Felixstowe, and while looking (December 29, 1886) at an engine
employed in pumping water he received a terrible blow upon the head. He returned to his work
before long, but it was noticed that for some time he seemed to have lost his usual ease in
composition. He was supposed, however, to have recovered completely from the effects of the
blow. In the early part of 1888 he astonished his friends by producing a small weekly paper
called the 'Reflector.' It appeared from January 1 to April 21, 1888. He received help from
many friends, but wrote the chief part of it himself. The articles show the versatility of
his interests, and include many thoughtful discussions of politics and politicians, besides
excursions into literature. Perhaps its most remarkable quality was not favourable to success.
It was singularly candid and moderate in tone, and obviously the work of a thoughtful observer.
Probably the only chance of success for such a periodical would have been to make a scandal
by personality or impropriety. To expect a commercial success from a paper which relied only
upon being well written was chimerical, unless the author could have afforded to hold out in
a financial sense for a much longer period. The expense gave a sufficient reason for discontinuing
it; and it is now, I fear, to be inferred that the venture was one of the first signs of a
want of intellectual balance.

Meanwhile, it seemed to indicate that James had literary tastes which would interfere with
his devotion to the bar. Some months later (June 1888) his father appointed him to the clerkship
of assize on the South Wales circuit, which had become vacant by the death of Maine's son.

He now took comparatively little interest in his profession and spoke of taking more exclusively
to literature. Clearer symptoms showed themselves before long of the disease caused by the
accident. I have no wish to dwell upon that painful topic. It is necessary, however, to say
that it gradually became manifest that he was suffering from a terrible disease. He had painful
periods of excitement and depression. Eccentricities of behaviour caused growing anxiety to
his family; and especially to his father, whose own health was beginning to suffer from independent
causes. I will only say that exquisitely painful as the position necessarily was to all who
loved him, there was something strangely pathetic in his whole behaviour. It happened that
I saw him very frequently at the time; and I had the best reasons for remarking that, under
all the distressing incidents, the old most lovable nature remained absolutely unaffected.
No one could be a more charming companion, not only to his contemporaries but to his elders
and to children, for whose amusement he had a special gift. He would reason in the frankest
and most good-humoured way about himself and his own affairs, and no excitement prevented him
for a moment from being courteous and affectionate.

He resolved at last to settle at Cambridge in his own college in October 1890; resigning his
clerkship at the same time. At Cambridge he was known to everyone, and speedily made himself
beloved both in the University and the town. He spoke at the Union and gave lectures, which
were generally admired. And here, too, in 1891 he published two little volumes of verse: 'Lapsus
Calami' and 'Quo Musa Tendis?' Four editions of the first were published between April and
August.[201] It started with an address to Calverley, most felicitous of minor poets of Cambridge;
and the most skilful practisers of the art thought that James had inherited a considerable
share of his predecessor's gift. I, however, cannot criticise. No one can doubt that the playful
verses and the touches of genuine feeling show a very marked literary talent, if not true poetic
power. He seems, I may remark, to have had a special affinity for Browning, whom he parodied
in a way which really implied admiration. He took occasion to make a graceful apology in some
verses upon Browning's death.[202] But to me the little volume and its successor speak more
of the bright and affectionate nature which it indicates, and the delight, veiled by comic
humour, in his friendships and in all the school and college associations endeared by his friends'
society. The 'Quo Musa Tendis?' composed chiefly of poems contributed to various papers in
the interval, appeared in September 1891.

Mr. Oscar Browning quotes some phrases from one of James's letters in November, which dwell
with lively anticipation upon the coming term. For a time, in fact, he seemed to be in excellent
spirits and enjoying his old pursuits and amusements. But a change in his condition soon occurred.
He had to leave Cambridge at the end of November; and he died on February 3, 1892. Many bright
hopes were buried with him; but those who loved him best may find some solace in the thought
that few men have been so surrounded by the affection of their fellows, or have had, in spite
of the last sad troubles, so joyous or so blameless a life.

James's college friends have put up a brass to his memory in King's College Chapel. His family
erected a fountain near Anaverna. His father added a drinking-cup as his own special gift,
and took the first draught from it October 25, 1892, when about to take his final leave of
the place.

VI. CONCLUSION

What remains to be told of Fitzjames's life shall be given as briefly as may be. The death
of James had been preceded by the death of Lord Lytton, November 24, 1891, which was felt deeply
by the survivor. His own health gave fresh cause for anxiety during the latter part of 1889,
though happily he had little suffering at any time beyond some incidental inconvenience. On
March 17, 1890, he had an attack of illness during the assizes at Exeter resembling that which
he had previously had at Derby. He was again ordered to rest for three months. Sir A. Clark
allowed him to go on circuit in the summer. Lord Coleridge was his colleague, and Fitzjames
enjoyed his society. He afterwards went to Anaverna, and, though unable to walk far, took much
pleasure in long drives. Meanwhile it began to be noticed that his mind was less powerful than
it had hitherto been. It was an effort to him to collect his thoughts and conduct a case clearly.
A competent observer stated as his general view that Fitzjames was at intervals no longer what
he had been--a remarkably strong judge--but that he could still discharge his duties in a way
which would have caused no unfavourable comments had he been new to the work. Remarks, however,
began to be made in the press which may have been more or less exaggerated. I need only say
that Fitzjames himself was quite unconscious of any inability to do his duty, and for some
time heard nothing of any comments. In March 1891 he was on circuit at Exeter again with Lord
Coleridge. It was thought right that certain public remarks should be brought under his notice.
He immediately took the obviously right course. He consulted Sir Andrew Clark, who advised
resignation. Fitzjames did his last work as judge at Bristol, March 15 to 23, and finally resigned
on April 7, 1891, when he took leave of his colleagues at an impressive meeting. The Attorney-General,
Sir R. Webster, expressed the feelings of the bar; and the final 'God bless you all,' with
which he took leave of the members of his old profession, remains in the memory of his hearers.
He was created a baronet in recognition of his services, and received the usual pension.

I may here mention that he was elected a corresponding member of the 'Institut de France' in
1888 ('Académie des Sciences morales et politiques'). The election, I believe, was due to M.
de Franqueville, the distinguished French jurist, with whom he had formed a warm friendship
in later years. He also received the honorary degree of LL.D. from the University of Edinburgh
in 1884, and was an honorary member of the American Academy of Arts and Sciences.

After his retirement his health fluctuated. He visited Froude at Salcombe in June, and was
able to enjoy sailing. He afterwards went to Homburg, and in the autumn was able to walk as
well as drive about Anaverna. He wrote an article or two for the 'Nineteenth Century,' and
he afterwards amused himself by collecting the articles of which I have already spoken, published
in three small volumes (in 1892) as 'Horæ Sabbaticæ.' On the whole, however, he was gradually
declining. The intellect was becoming eclipsed, and he was less and less able to leave his
chair. Early in 1893 he became finally unable to walk up and down stairs, and in the summer
it was decided not to go to Anaverna. He was moved to Red House Park, Ipswich, in May, where
he remained to the end. It had the advantage of a pleasant garden, which he could enjoy during
fine weather. During this period he still preserved his love of books, and was constantly either
reading or listening to readers. His friends felt painfully that he was no longer quite with
them in mind. Yet it was touching to notice how scrupulously he tried, even when the effort
had become painful, to receive visitors with all due courtesy, and still more to observe how
his face lighted up with a tender smile whenever he received some little attention from those
dearest to him. It is needless to say that of such loving care there was no lack. I shall only
mention one trifling incident, which concerned me personally. I had been to see him at Ipswich.
He was chiefly employed with a book, and though he said a few words, I felt doubtful whether
he fully recognised my presence. I was just stepping into a carriage on my departure when I
became aware that he was following me to the door leaning upon his wife's arm. Once more his
face was beaming with the old hearty affection, and once more he grasped my hand with the old
characteristic vigour, and begged me to give his love to my wife. It was our last greeting.

I can say nothing of the intercourse with those still nearer to him. He had no serious suffering.
He became weaker and died peacefully at Ipswich, March 11, 1894. He was buried at Kensal Green
in the presence of a few friends, and laid by the side of his father and mother and the four
children who had gone before him. One other grave is close by, the grave of one not allied
to him by blood, but whom he loved with a brotherly affection that shall never be forgotten
by one survivor.

I have now told my story, and I leave reflections mainly to my readers. One thing I shall venture
to say. In writing these pages I have occasionally felt regret--regret that so much power should
have been used so lavishly as to disappoint the hopes of a long life, for I always looked to
my brother as to a tower of strength, calculated to outlast such comparative weaklings as myself;
and regret, too, that so much power was expended upon comparatively ephemeral objects or upon
aims destined to fail of complete fulfilment. Such regrets enable me to understand why the
work which he did in India made so deep an impression upon his mind. And yet I feel that the
regrets are unworthy of him. The cases are rare indeed where a man's abilities have been directed
precisely into the right channel from early life. Almost all men have to acknowledge that they
have spent a great portion of their energy upon tasks which have led to nothing, or led only
to experience of failure. A man who has succeeded in giving clear utterance to the thoughts
that were in him need care comparatively little whether they have been concentrated in some
great book or diffused through a number of miscellaneous articles. Fitzjames's various labours
came to a focus in his labours upon the Criminal Law. During his short stay in India he succeeded
in actually achieving a great work; and I hope that, if his hopes of achieving similar results
in England were disappointed, he will have successors who will find some help from the foundations
which he laid. But, as he said of his father, the opportunity of directing your powers vigorously
and in a worthy direction is its own reward. If to have taken advantage of such opportunities
be the true test of success, whatever opinions may be held of you by others, and to whatever
account they may turn your labours, Fitzjames may be called eminently successful. It often
appears to me, indeed, that a man does good less by his writings or by the mark which he may
make upon public affairs than by simply being himself. The impression made upon his contemporaries
by a man of strong and noble character is something which cannot be precisely estimated, but
which we often feel to be invaluable. The best justification of biography in general is that
it may strengthen and diffuse that impression. That, at any rate, is the spirit in which I
have written this book. I have sought to show my brother as he was. Little as he cared for
popularity (and, indeed, he often rather rejected than courted it), I hope that there will
not be wanting readers who will be attracted even by an indifference which is never too common.
And there is one thing which, as I venture to believe, no one can deny, or deny to be worth
considering. Whatever may be thought of Fitzjames's judgments of men and things, it must be
granted that he may be called, in the emphatical and lofty sense of the word, a true man. In
the dark and bewildering game of life he played his part with unfaltering courage and magnanimity.
He was a man not only in masculine vigour of mind and body, but in the masculine strength of
affection, which was animated and directed to work by strenuous moral convictions. If I have
failed to show that, I have made a failure indeed; but I hope that I cannot have altogether
failed to produce some likeness of a character so strongly marked and so well known to me from
my earliest infancy.

FOOTNOTES:

[Footnote 176: History of Criminal Law, i. 418.]

[Footnote 177: History of Criminal Law, i. 265-272.]

[Footnote 178: Fitzjames had given a slighter account of this curious subject in the Contemporary
Review for February 1871.]

[Footnote 179: History of Criminal Law, ii. 81-3.]

[Footnote 180: Ibid. iii. 84.]

[Footnote 181: History of Criminal Law, ii. 175.]

[Footnote 182: History of Criminal Law, i. 442.]

[Footnote 183: Fitzjames discussed this question for the last time in the Nineteenth Century
for October 1886. Recent changes had, he says, made the law hopelessly inconsistent; and he
points out certain difficulties, though generally adhering to the view given above.]

[Footnote 184: History of Criminal Law, iii. 367.]

[Footnote 185: Nuncomar and Impey, i. 1.]

[Footnote 186: Nuncomar and Impey, ii. 114.]

[Footnote 187: Ibid. ii. 247.]

[Footnote 188: Nuncomar and Impey, i. 7.]

[Footnote 189: History of Criminal Law, i. 456.]

[Footnote 190: Fitzjames kept a journal for a short time at this period, which gives the facts,
also noticed in his letters.]

[Footnote 191: Law Reports, 6 Queen's Bench Division, pp. 244-263.]

[Footnote 192: Law Reports, 12 Queen's Bench Division, pp. 247-256.]

[Footnote 193: The verses were published in the St. James's Gazette of Dec. 2, 1881.]

[Footnote 194: His letters appeared in the Times of March 1 and 2 and June 9, 1883, and were
afterwards collected.]

[Footnote 195: His letters appeared on January 1, 4, and 21, and on April 29 and May 1, 1886.]

[Footnote 196: February 11, 1888; reprinted in the biographical notice by Sir M. E. Grant Duff,
prefixed to the collection of Maine's speeches and minutes in 1892.]

[Footnote 197: I have used a notice in the Cambridge Review of February 11, 1892, and some
notes by Mr. Oscar Browning. I have also to thank several of James's friends for communications;
especially Mr. Cornish, now Vice-Provost of Eton College, Mr. Lowry, now an Eton master, Mr.
Reginald J. Smith, Q.C., and Mr. H. F. Wilson, of Lincoln's Inn.]

[Footnote 198: I deeply regret to say that Professor Goodhart died while these pages were going
through the press. The schoolboy affection had been maintained to the end; and Goodhart was
one of James's most intimate and valued friends.]

[Footnote 199: Mr. Lowry mentions some other ephemeral writings, the Salt Hill Papers and the
Sugar Loaf Papers.]

[Footnote 200: The last was published at the end of 1884.]

[Footnote 201: A bibliographical account of the changes in these editions is given in the fourth.]

[Footnote 202: A 'Parodist's Apology,' added in the later edition of the Lapsus.]

BIBLOGRAPHICAL NOTE

The independent books published by Sir J. F. Stephen were as follows:--

     1. Essays by a Barrister (reprinted from the Saturday Review).
     London, 1862, Smith, Elder & Co. 1 vol. 8vo. (Anonymous.) Pp. 335.

     2. Defence of the Rev. Rowland Williams, D.D., in the Arches Court
     of Canterbury, by James Fitzjames Stephen, M.A., of the Inner
     Temple, barrister-at-law, recorder of Newark-on-Trent. London,
     1862, Smith, Elder & Co. 1 vol. 8vo. Pp. xlviii. 335.

     3. 8vo. Pp. xii. 499.

     4. Liberty, Equality, Fraternity, by James Fitzjames Stephen,
     Q.C. London, 1873, Smith, Elder & Co. Pp. vi. 350. Second edition
     of the same (with new preface and additional notes), 1874. Pp.
     xlix. 370.

     5. A Digest of the Law of Evidence, by James Fitzjames Stephen,
     Q.C. London, 1874, Macmillan & Co. Pp. xlii. 198. Reprinted with
     slight alterations, September 1876, December 1876; with many
     alterations, 1877. Second edition, 1881. Third, 1887. Fourth, 1893.

     6. A Digest of the Criminal Law (Crimes and Punishments), by
     Sir James Fitzjames Stephen, K.C.S.I., Q.C. London, 1877, Macmillan
     & Co. Pp. lxxxii. 412. Second edition, 1879. Third, 1883. Fourth,
     1887. Fifth, 1894.

     7. A Digest of the Law of Criminal Procedure in Indictable
     Offences, by Sir James Fitzjames Stephen, K.C.S.I., D.C.L., a
     judge of the High Court of Justice, Queen's Bench Division, and
     Herbert Stephen, Esq., LL.M., of the Inner Temple,
     barrister-at-law. London, Macmillan &Co. 1883. Pp. xvi. 230.

     8. London, 1883, Macmillan & Co. 3
     vols. 8vo. Pp. xviii. 576; 497; 592.

     9. The Story of Nuncomar and the Impeachment of Sir Elijah Impey,
     by Sir James Fitzjames Stephen, K.C.S.I., one of the judges of the
     High Court of Justice, Queen's Bench Division. London, 1885,
     Macmillan & Co. 2 vols. 8vo. Pp. 267, 336.

     10. A General View of the Criminal Law of England, by Sir James
     Fitzjames Stephen, K.C.S.I., D.C.L., Honorary Fellow of Trinity
     College, Cambridge, a corresponding member of the French Institute,
     a judge of the Supreme Court, Queen's Bench Division. (Second
     edition.) London, 1890, Macmillan & Co. Pp. xii. 398.

     11. Horæ Sabbaticæ, Reprint of Articles contributed to the
     Saturday Review, by Sir James Fitzjames Stephen, Bart., K.C.S.I.
     London, 1892, Macmillan & Co. First, second and third series. Pp.
     347, 417, 376.

The following is a list of the chief contributions to quarterly and monthly periodicals.

Cambridge Essays

1. Oct. 1855. Relation of Novels to Life.

2. July 1857. Characteristics of English Criminal Law.

National Review

1. April 1856. Cambridge Reform.

2. Nov. 1864. The Public Schools Commission.

Edinburgh Review

1. July 1856. Cavallier.

2. July 1857. Novelists.

3. Jan. 1858. Tom Brown's Schooldays.

4. April 1858. Buckle's 'Civilisation.'

5. Oct. 1858. Guy Livingstone.

6. April 1859. Hodson.

7. Oct. 1861. Jurisprudence.

Cornhill Magazine

1. Sept. 1860. Luxury.

2. Dec. 1860. Criminal Law and the Detection of Crime.

3. April 1861. The Morality of Advocacy.

4. May 1861. Dignity.

5. June and July 1861. The Study of History.

6. Aug. 1861. The Dissolution of the Union.

7. Sept. 1861. Keeping up Appearances.

8. Nov. 1861. National Character.

9. Dec. 1861. Competitive Examinations.

10. Jan. 1862. Liberalism.

11. Feb. 1862. Commissions of Lunacy.

12. March 1862. Gentlemen.

13. May 1862. Superstition.

14. June 1862. Courts Martial.

15. July 1862. Journalism.

16. Sept. 1862. The State Trials.

17. Nov. 1862. Circumstantial Evidence.

18. Jan. 1863. Society.

19. Feb. 1863. The Punishment of Convicts.

20. April 1863. Oaths.

21. June 1863. Spiritualism.

22. July 1863. Commonplaces on England.

23. July 1863. Professional Etiquette.

24. Sept. 1863. Anti-respectability.

25. Oct. 1863. A Letter to a Saturday Reviewer.

26. Dec. 1863. Marriage Settlements.

27. Jan. 1864. Money and Money's Worth.

28. June 1864. The Church as a Profession.

29. July 1864. Sentimentalism.

30. Dec. 1864. The Bars of France and England.

31. Jan. 1867. The Law of Libel.

Fraser's Magazine

(A few earlier articles had appeared in this magazine.)

1. Dec. 1863. Women and Scepticism.

2. Jan. 1864. Japan.

3. Feb. 1864. Theodore Parker.

4. April 1864. Mr. Thackeray.

5. May 1864. The Privy Council.

6. June 1864. Capital Punishment.

7. Sept. 1864. Newman's 'Apologia.'

8. Nov. 1864. Dr. Pusey and the Court of Appeal.

9. Dec. 1864. Kaye's 'Indian Mutiny.'

10. Feb. 1865. Law of the Church of England.

11. March 1965. Merivale's 'Conversion of the Roman Empire.'

12. June and July 1865. English Ultramontanism.

13. Nov. 1865. Mr. Lecky's 'Rationalism.'

14. Feb. 1866. Capital Punishment.

15. June and July 1866. 'Ecce Homo.'

16. Nov. 1866. Voltaire.

17. Nov. 1869. Religious Controversy.

18. Jan. 1872. Certitude in Religious Assent.

19. July 1873. Froissart's 'Chronicles.'

Fortnightly Review

1. Dec. 1872. Codification in India and England.

2. March 1877. A Penal Code.

3. March 1884. Blasphemy and Seditious Libel.

Contemporary Review

1. Dec. 1873 and March 1874. Parliamentary Government.

2. March 1874. Cæsarism and Ultramontanism.

3. May 1874. Cæsarism and Ultramontanism: a Rejoinder.

4. Dec. 1874. Necessary Truth.

5. Feb. 1875. The Law of England as to the Expression of Religious Opinion.

Nineteenth Century

1. April 1877. Mr. Gladstone and Sir G. C. Lewis on Authority.

2. May 1877. Morality and Religious Belief.

3. Sept. 1877. Improvement of the Law by Private Enterprise.

4. Dec. 1877. Suggestions as to the Reform of the Criminal Law.

5. Jan. 1880. The Criminal Code (1879).

6. Jan. 1881. The High Court of Justice.

7. April 1882. A Sketch of the Criminal Law.

8. Oct. 1883. India; the Foundations of Government.

9. June 1884. The Unknowable and the Unknown.

10. May 1885. Variations in the Punishment of Crime.

11. Oct. 1886. Prisoners as Witnesses.

12. Dec. 1886. The Suppression of Boycotting.

13. Oct. 1887. Mr. Mivart's 'Modern Catholicism.'

14. Jan. 1888. A Rejoinder to Mr. Mivart.

15. April and May 1888. Max Müller's 'Science of Thought.'

16. June 1891. The Opium Resolution.

17. July 1891. Gambling and the Law.

INDEX

   Aberdare, Lord, 340

   Aberdeen in 1775-77, 11

   Achill, Sir J. F. Stephen at, 409

   Adams, Professor, 93

   Adams, Mr. Henry, 24n

   Addison, Joseph, 430

   Afghanistan, Lord Lytton's policy in, and the subjugation of its
       tribes,391-401

   Agency Committee, organised by George Stephen, 28

   Albert, Prince Consort, 95

   Allen, William, 309

   America, the Civil War in, 319

   American Academy of Arts and Sciences, Sir J. F. Stephen an honorary
       member of, 478

   Anaverna House, 386, 406-409, 477-479

   Annet, Peter, last Deist imprisoned for blasphemous libel, 8

   'Anti-Slavery Reporter,' the, 47

   'Apostles,' the, at Cambridge, 100-106, 300, 472

   Aquinas, Thomas, 60, 364

   Argyll, Duke of, 354

   Arnold, Matthew, 165

   Arnold, Rev. Dr., 76, 221

   Ashton, John, Jacobite conspirator, 34

   Ashton, Miss. See Venn, Rev. Richard

   Ashwell, R. v., 443

   Athenæum Club, the, 302

   Auerbach's 'Auf der Höhe,' 298

   Austen, Jane, 103

   Austerlitz, 60

   Austin, Charles, 123

   Austin, John, as a writer compared with Sir J. Stephen, 54;
     John and Mrs. Austin's associations with Sir J. Stephen, 60, 76;
     influence of Austin's works on Sir J. F. Stephen, 116, 204-206,
         220, 317, 396, 413;
     death, 172

   Austin, Miss Lucy. See Gordon, Lady Duff

   Bacon murder trial, 146-148, 173

   Bain, Professor, 339

   Balmat, Auguste, 143

   Balston, Mr., 80, 81, 86

   Balzac, Honoré, 156

   Barkley, Mr. D. G., 256

   Barry, Mr. Justice, 380

   Bate, Parson. See Dudley, Sir Henry Bate

   Bathurst, Earl, and Sir J. Stephen, 32

   Batten, Rev. Ellis, Master at Harrow, his wife (Miss Caroline Venn)
       and daughter, 36n., 39, 129

   Baxter and his writings, Sir J. Stephen on, 56, 57, 116

   Beaconsfield, Lord, 344, 349, 352

   Beattie, Dr., 11

   Beaumont, W. J., 85

   Bellingham, Henry, murderer of Mr. Perceval, 20

   Bentham, Jeremy, Sir J. F. Stephen
   and his writings, 71, 101, 116, 123-125, 159, 189, 204, 206-208, 210,
       211, 308, 309, 311, 312, 317, 321, 322, 325, 333, 413, 423, 424,
       464;
   his efforts on behalf of codification, 246, 247

   Bethell Sir Richard. See Westbury, Lord

   Blackburn, Lord, 353, 380

   Blackstone, Mr. Justice, 26, 412, 418

   Blakesley, Canon, 100

   Blomfield, Bishop, 37

   Blücher, Field-Marshal, 21

   Board of Trade, Sir J. Stephen's connection with the, 42, 49

   Bolingbroke, James Kenneth Stephen's essay on, 472

   Bonney, Professor, 4n

   Bowen, Lord Justice, 150, 232, 413

   Brahmos sect (India), 260-266

   Bramwell, Lord, 140, 353

   Brand, Lieut., his share in the execution of Gordon, 229

   Bright, John, 107, 160, 224, 304, 394

   Brontë, Charlotte, 103

   Brougham, Lord, 19, 20, 22, 24n

   Brown, Mary. See Stephen, Mr. James

   Browning, Mr. Oscar, 469, 472, 476

   Browning, Robert, 5, 476

   Browning, Mr. William, 469

   Bryce, Mr. James, 32n

   Buckle, T. H., 312, 320

   Buller, Mr. Charles, 46, 100

   Bunyan, John, 69

   Burke, Edmund, 433, 434

   Butler, Bishop, Sir James Stephen and his 'Analogy,' 18;
     Sir J. F. Stephen and Butler's works, 161, 196, 423

   Butler, Mr. Montague, 99n

   Buxton, Mr. Charles, his connection with the Jamaica Committee,
       228n

   Buxtn, Sir Thomas Fowell, his efforts to suppress the slave trade, 28

   Byron, Lord, 103, 400

   Cairns, Lord, 380

   Calcutta, work and life at, 241, 244, 304

   Calder, Mrs., daughter of Mr. James Stephen, 2

   Calverley, C. S., 476

   'Cambridge Essays,' 149, 155, 203, 206, 484

   'Cambridge Review,' the, 469n

   Cambridge University, John Venn at, 35;
     connection of Sir J. Stephen with, 56;
     Sir J. F Stephen at, 93-106;
     the 'Apostles,' 100;
     J. K. Stephen at, 472-3, 476-7

   Cameron, C. H., his share in codifying Indian Penal Laws, 247

   Campbell's Poems, 40, 68

   Campbell, Mr. J. Dykes, 33n

   Campbell, Lord, Chief Justice, 140, 441, 442

   Campbell, Sir George, 269

   Canning, Lord, 399

   Capital punishment, 426, 445

   Carlyle, Jane Welsh, 201

   Carlyle, Thomas, 50, 53, 54;
     his political and philosophic writings, 77, 104, 159, 180, 182,
         225, 230, 315, 453, 458;
     friendship with Sir J. F. Stephen, 201-203, 238, 245, 302, 305,
         309, 360, 385, 419

   Caroline, Queen, 27

   Cashmire Gate, the, 398

   Castlereagh, Lord, 22

   Cavagnari, Major, 397, 399

   Cavaignac and the French revolution of 1848, 108

   Cavallier, 162, 163

   Cayley, Professor, 93

   Cervantes, 464

   Chamberlain, Mr. Joseph, 231, 232

   Charlemagne, 319

   Charles II., criminal law in his day 241

   Charlotte, Princess, 21

   Chenery, Thomas, Editor of the 'Times,' 85

   Chillingworth, William, 186

   Chitty, Mr. Justice, 85

   'Christian Observer,' 127-130, 149

   Christie, W. D., 100n

   Church Missionary Society, 33, 35

   'Clapham Sect,' the, 24n, 32-35, 55-57, 83, 84, 127

   Clark, Sir Andrew, 435, 436, 477, 478

   Clarke, Mrs. See Stephen, Mr. James

   Cleasby, Baron, 402, 403

   Clifford, Professor W. K., 361

   Clifton v. Ridsdale, 384

   Club 'The,' 385

   Cobden, Richard, 107, 160

   Cockburn, Sir Alexander, Lord Chief Justice, his charge regarding the
         alleged murder of Gordon, 229;
     and the Homicide Bill, 353;
     on the Criminal Code Bill, 381

   Cockerell, Mr., 246n, 254

   Codification, in India, 233, 249, 303, 392, 393, 418;
     in England, 302, 305, 340, 341, 347, 351-358, 379-381, 388, 389,
         392, 393

   Colenso, Bishop, 219

   Coleridge, Mr. Arthur, 77, 78, 80, 85, 139-141

   Coleridge, Herbert, 82, 85

   Coleridge, Lord, Chief Justice, 165, 303, 305, 306, 340, 341, 343,
       351, 352, 377, 389, 477, 478

   Coleridge, Samuel Taylor, 58, 84, 105, 168, 221, 368

   Colonial Department and Office, 32, 42-45

   Colquhoun's 'Wilberforce' cited, 24n

   Comte, Auguste, 375

   Congreve, Mr., 161

   'Contemporary Review,' the, 350n, 365, 422n, 485

   Contracts, Sir J. F. Stephen and the law of, 276-278, 355, 376

   Conybeare and Philips, their work on Geology, cited, 4n

   Cook, John Douglas, 148, 149, 150, 153

   Copyright Commission, the, 402

   'Cornhill Magazine,' the, 139n, 175, 177, 178, 182-184, 208n,
       212, 214, 223, 484, 485

   Cornish, Mr., Vice-Provost of Eton, 469n, 471

   Cosmopolitan Club, the, 385, 386

   Courts-Martial, Sir J. F. Stephen on, 208

   Cowie, Mr., Advocate-General, 261

   Cowper, the poet, 34, 40

   Cremation, 450

   Criminal Law, 149;
     'General View' of, 203-212, 412, 413, 463, 483, 484;
     'Digest' of, 375-377, 412, 463, 483;
     the Criminal Code, 380, 381, 402, 418;
     'History' of, 410-428, 463, 483;
     Court of Criminal Appeal, 463

   Croker, John Wilson, 21

   Cumming, Dr., and the 'Saturday Review,' 154

   Cunningham, Sir Henry Stewart, 130, 234, 235, 237, 245, 246n, 249,
       275n, 295, 298, 304, 305

   Cunningham, Rev. J. W., 128-130

   Curzon, Hon. George, 470

   Cust, Mr. Robert, 257

   Dalgairns, Father, 361

   Dalhousie, Lord, 399

   Dante, 464, 465

   Darwinism, 374, 375, 456

   Davies, Rev. J. Llewelyn, 99, 106, 125, 126, 132

   Delhi, 237, 245; the great Durbar at (1877), 398

   De Maistre, 226, 330

   Denison, Archdeacon, 351

   Derby, Earl of (Edward Geoffrey), 47, 48, 53

   Derby, Earl of (Edward Henry), 102

   Descartes, 363

   De Vere, Aubrey, 59

   Dicey, Professor Albert Venn, Mr. Edward, Mr. Frank, and Mr. Henry,
       31

   Dicey, Mr. Thomas Edward, 29-31, 76, 85, 120

   Dickens, Charles, 155, 156, 158, 160, 180, 345

   Dickens, Mr., Q.C., 439

   Dove, trial of, 146

   Dowden, Professor, 55n

   Dromquina, Ireland, 235, 236, 405, 406

   Dudley, Sir Henry Bate ('Parson' Bate), 14

   Duff, James Grant, 171

   Duff, Sir Mountstuart Elphinstone Grant, and Lady, 119, 120, 139,
       140, 171, 190, 235, 303, 451, 466n

   Dundee, candidature for, 343-348, 352

   'Ecce Homo,' review of, 200, 221

   Ecclesiastical cases, 381-386

   Edinburgh, Duke of (Prince Alfred), 245

   'Edinburgh Review,' the, 55, 150, 153, 160, 162, 163, 172n, 175,
       204, 205, 484

   Education Commission (1859), 165-167, 172, 203

   Egerton, Lady, 130, 234, 245, 403, 404, 435

   Egerton, Sir Robert, 400

   Eldon, Earl of, 247

   Elliot, Gilbert (Earl Minto), 433

   Elliott, Miss Charlotte, 72, 73

   Elliott, E. B., 154

   Elliott, Rev. Henry Venn, 72, 73

   Ellis, Mr. Leslie, 93, 97

   Erie, Lord Chief Justice, 442

   'Essays and Reviews,' 184, 219, 369

   'Essays by a Barrister,' 170n, 172n, 177;
     character of its contents, 178-182, 412

   Estlin, John Prior, 31

   Eton, 76-86, 469-472

   'Etonian,' the, 470

   Evidence, Digest of the Law of, 483

   Evidence Act (India) and Bill (England), 277, 278, 291, 305, 306, 341

   Extradition Commission, the, 402

   Eyre, Governor, 227-230, 296

   Fane, Julian, 102, 104

   Farish, Professor William, 8n, 31, 36

   Fawcett, Professor Henry, 222

   Field, Lord, 118, 120, 212, 357

   Fielding, Sir John, 7

   Flowers, Mr. F., 138

   Forbes, Miss Mary. See Stephen, Mr. William

   Forster, the Rt. Hon. W. E., 167

   'Fortnightly Review,' the, 246n, 340, 485

   Francis, Sir Philip, 433

   Francis, Miss Elizabeth, 40

   Franqueville, M. de, 478

   'Fraser's Magazine,' 163, 184, 188, 190, 194, 200, 202, 225, 226,
       365, 485

   Freeman, Professor E. A., 150, 351

   Freshfield, Messrs., 27

   Froude, James Anthony, 151n, 200, 201, 236, 238, 300, 302, 304,
       385, 405, 446, 478

   Fuller, Mr., 435

   Galway, Ireland, 409

   Garratt, Rev. Samuel, 30n

   Garratt, Mr. W. A., 29, 30, 180

   George III., criminal law in his day, 421

   Gibbet Law of Halifax, 420

   Gibbon, Edward, 226, 358, 359, 416

   Gibbs, Mr. Frederick Waymouth, 42, 72, 82, 101, 346, 407

   Giffard, Mr. Hardinge (afterwards Lord Halsbury), 229

   Gisborne, Thomas, 18, 55

   Gladstone, Mr., his work on Church and State, 219;
     Irish Church Act and Irish University Bill, 225, 341;
     connection with the Metaphysical Society, 361, 365, 366;
     recent Irish and Indian policies, 460, 461

   Glenelg, Lord, 44

   Goodhart, Professor, 470

   Gordon, Adam Lindsay, 459

   Gordon, Lady Duff (née Austin), 60

   Gordon, Lord George, 14

   Gordon, hanged for his share in the Jamaica insurrection, 227-230

   Gorham case, the, 109

   Gower, Lord F. L., 68

   Grace, Miss. See Stephen, Rev. William

   Graham, Sir James, and the slave trade, 48n

   Gray, the poet, 39;
     his 'Elegy,' 170

   Great Grimsby Riots, 173

   Green, T. H., 362

   Greenwood, Mr. Frederick, editor of
   the 'Pall Mall Gazette 'and the 'St. James's Gazette,' 214-217, 300,
       307, 460, 474

   Greg, William Rathbone, 124, 212, 213

   Greville, Charles, the diarist, 60

   Grey, Earl. See Howick, Lord

   Guest, Rev. B., 73-76

   Gurney, Mr. Russell, recorder of London, 39, 73, 129, 228, 300, 304,
       305, 341, 353, 389, 402

   Haileybury, Sir J. Stephen at, 91

   Hallam, the historian, 182, 414

   Hallam, Henry Fitzmaurice, 100, 102

   Hamilton, the logician, anecdote concerning, 103

   Hamilton, Sir William, introduces German philosophy into England,
       105;
     Mill's examination of his philosophy, 182, 183

   Hampden, Bishop, 186

   Hannen, Mr. (afterwards Lord), counsel for General Nelson and Lieut.
       Brand, 229

   Harcourt, Sir William (4 Historicus'), contemporary of Sir J. F.
       Stephen at Cambridge, 99,102, 106;
     connection with the 'Saturday Review,' 150, 213, 302, 395, 445

   Harrison, Mr. Frederic, his controversies with Sir J. F. Stephen and
       connection with the Metaphysical Society, 213, 339, 340, 361,
       371, 454

   Harwich, candidature for, 222, 344

   Hastings, Warren, Sir J. F. Stephen's interest in the study of his
       works and impeachment, 233, 395, 398, 399, 429;
     character of Lord Macaulay's article on, 430-434

   Hazlitt, as an essayist, 178

   Helps, Sir Arthur, an 'Apostle' at Cambridge, 100;
     as an essayist, 178

   Henry, Sir Thomas, 229

   Hey, Rev. John, 35

   Hick, Mr., M.P., 232

   Higgins, Matthew James ('Jacob Omnium'), his connection with the
       'Pall Mall Gazette,' 212

   Hildebrand, Sir J. Stephen on, 56

   Hill, Rowland, and the Post Office, 159

   Himalayas, the, Sir J. F. Stephen's description of, 245

   Hindoo laws, remarriage of widows legalised, 260;
     alterations in the oaths and wills enactments, 277. See also
       India

   'Historicus.' See Harcourt, Sir William

   'History 'of the criminal law. See Criminal law

   Hobbes, Thomas, the study of his philosophy by Sir J. F. Stephen and
       its influence on his character, 116, 141, 220, 308, 317, 320,
       330, 442, 455

   Hobhouse, Lord, 304, 392

   Hodson, Archdeacon, 24;
     Indian reminiscences of Hodson of Hodson's Horse, 245

   Holker, Sir John, 380

   Holland, Canon, 102

   Holland House, society gatherings at, 60

   Home Rule, Sir J. F. Stephen's objections to, 460-462

   Homer, study of, 358

   Homicide Bill, 304, 340, 353, 379

   Hooghly, its aspect during State ceremonial after Lord Mayo's murder,
       293, 294

   Hooker, 186, 226

   'Horæ Sabbaticæ,' 225, 226, 479, 484

   Hort, Professor, 102, 149

   Howick, Lord (afterwards Earl Grey), and the slave trade, 47

   Hughes, Tom (Judge), his 'Tom Brown's School Days,' 95;
     mission work in the East End, 126

   Hughes v. Edwards, 384

   Hume, David, 58

   Hunter, Sir W. W., his 'Life of the Earl of Mayo,' 246n, 48,
       282-290, 342

   Hutton, Mr. R. H., 360, 361

   Huxley, Professor, 361, 371

   Hyde Park Riots, the, 224

   Ilbert, Sir C. P., on Sir J. F. Stephen's legislative work in India,
       246n, 279, 280, 378;
     advocates the collection of antiquarian laws, 379;
     his 'Indian' Bill proposals criticised by Sir J. F. Stephen, 461

   Impey, Sir Elijah, Sir J. F. Stephen's work on his 'Trial of
       Nuncomar,' 353, 429, 484;
     injustice of Lord Macaulay's treatment of Impey, 432

   India, Sir J. F. Stephen on James Grant Duff's administration of, 171;
     on British rule in, 223, 459;
     legal codes in, 225;
     Sir J. F. Stephen's interest in, 233;
     his appointment as Member of Council, 235;
     account of his duties and of the Indian Civil Servants, 242, 243;
     personal experiences there, 244-246;
     the India Company and the passage of the Penal Code, 247-249;
     constitution of the Legislative Council, 249;
     the executive, 249;
     the legislative department and its functions, 249;
     the committee, 250, 269, 270;
     process of preparing legislative measures, 250, 251;
     the Indian and English systems compared, 251, 252;
     varied character of its regulations, laws, and executive orders,
       and consequent irregularities, 252-254;
     British administration of the Punjab and the introduction of Codes,
       255-259;
     the difficulties of our position in India, 259;
     enumeration of legislative reforms in India, 259-278;
     criticisms and appreciations of Sir J. F. Stephen's work in India,
       278-282;
     summary of Sir J. F. Stephen's views on the principles of Indian
       legislation, 282-289;
     his Minute on the administration of justice in India, 289-291;
     the murder of Lord Mayo in, 291-296;
     riot and excesses of Kookas sect, 296, 297;
     Roman analogy of British rule, 297;
     Sir J. F. Stephen's last days in, 297;
     educational value of India to him, 299;
     his codification of the law in, 303;
     Evidence Act, 305;
     legislation in, compared with England, 304;
     contemplated work on, 353;
     his Acts relating to consolidation, 354, 355, 376, 377;
     correspondence with Lord Lytton concerning Indian affairs, 389-393,
       398;
     controversy with John Bright, Lord Lawrence, and other statesmen on
       Indian policy, 394-397;
     proclamation of Queen Victoria as Empress of, 398;
     proposed moral text-book for India, 399;
     Sir J. F. Stephen's study of Parliamentary Papers concerning, 429;
     his views on the 'Ilbert Bill,' 460, 461;
     work in, 480. See also Punjab

   Indian Law Commission, its share in Indian law reform, 248, 249, 260,
       266, 268, 271, 276

   Indian Mutiny, the, Sir J. F. Stephen's article on, 161;
     and legislation in India, 248

   Inns of Court, Sir J. F. Stephen Professor of Common Law at, 377

   Insanity and crime, 425, 426

   Institut de France, Sir J. F. Stephen elected a corresponding member
       of, 478

   International law, Austinian theory regarding, 396

   Ipswich, Sir J. F. Stephen's residence and death at, 479

   Ireland, Sir J. F. Stephen in, 235, 236, 405-409, 412, 477-479. See
       also Home Rule

   Irish Church, the, 224, 225

   Irish University Bill, the, defeat of, 341

   Italian, study of, 298, 299, 435, 464

   Jackson, Rev. William, 5;
     letter on James Stephen, 7

   Jacob, General, his 'Progress of Being,' Sir J. F. Stephen's review
       of, 375

   Jacob Omnium. See Higgins, Matthew James

   Jamaica, slave insurrection in (1831), 47;
     revolt in (1865), and its suppression, 227-231

   James, Mr. Edward, Q.C., 228

   James, Sir Henry, appointed Solicitor-General, 351

   Jeffrey, Lord, his conduct of the 'Edinburgh Review,' 162

   Jeffreys, Judge, 419, 420

   Jelf, Dr., the theologian, 88

   Jenkins, Mr. Edward, author of 'Ginx's Baby,' and the Dundee
       election, 345-349, 352

   Jenkins v. Cook, 383

   Jerrold, Douglas, 155

   Jessel, Sir George, Solicitor-General, 343

   Jeune, Sir Francis, 382, 384

   Johnson, Dr., and Sir J. F. Stephen: a comparison, 131, 133;
     character of his essays, 178

   Jowett, Rev. H., tutor of Sir J. Stephen, 31;
     and of the Rev. J. W. Cunningham, 129

   Jowett, Professor Joseph, an Evangelical, 31

   Jowett, Professor William, his writings on theology, 184, 185

   Judicature Act (1873), the, 343

   Jungfrau, ascent of the, 96

   Junius' letters, 5, 6

   Jurisprudence, Sir J. F. Stephen on, 204, 206

   Jury, the history of trial by, 419

   Justinian's 'Institutes,' 152

   Kane, E. K., 167

   Kant, 311, 333

   Kelly, Chief Baron, 342, 351

   Kelvin, Lord, 93

   Kenilworth Castle, 303

   Kenmare river, the, Ireland, 236, 405

   Kensington, the Stephens at, 22, 66, 235

   Kent, Chancellor, on Serjeant Stephen's first book, 26

   Killmakalogue Harbour, 405

   King, Miss Catherine. See Venn, Rev. John

   King's College, London, 86, 87

   Kingsley, Charles, 180

   Kitchin, Dean, 87, 109

   Knight, Rev. William, his work on the Rev. Henry Venn, D.D., 37

   Knowles, Mr. James, 360, 365

   Kooka sect, their religious fanaticisms and barbarities, 296

   Lahore, 237

   Lake, Dean, Education Commissioner (1858), 165

   Lamb, Charles, as an essayist, 178

   Lansdowne, Lord, his house in Ireland, 405

   'Lapsus Calami,' James Kenneth Stephen's, 476

   Lardner, his work on 'Gospel History' 124

   Las Casas, and his account of Napoleon at St. Helena, 359, 360

   Law, William, effect of his 'Serious Call' on Rev. Richard Venn, 34

   Law, definition of, 317, 320;
     considered in relation to Mill's theory, 322-324;
     its connection with morality, 423-428

   'Law Magazine,' the, 149

   'Law Quarterly Review,' Sir C. P. Ilbert's article in, on Sir J. F.
       Stephen, 246n

   Lawrence, Henry, assists in the administration of the Punjab, 255

   Lawrence, John (Lord), his legislative reforms in India and
       administration of the Punjab, 253, 255, 285;
     journalistic encounters and friendship with Sir J. F. Stephen, 395,
       396;
     text of Dean Stanley's sermon on, 468

   Lecky, W. E. H., his 'Rationalism,' 200

   Lewis, Sir George Cornewall, 244;
     his 'Authority 'discussed, 366

   'Liberty, Equality, Fraternity,' 170, 483;
     account of its inception, character of the work, 306-340, 428, 459;
     effect on the Dundee election, 345

   'Liberty of the Savoy,' 420

   Lightfoot, Dr., 97, 98

   Lilburne, John, 420

   Lincoln, General, 319

   Lipski, the murderer, 446, 447

   Literary Society, the, 385

   Liveing, Dr. Robert, 23

   Liverpool, invitation to contest, 340

   Locke, 104, 105, 363

   'London Review,' the, 177

   Louis Philippe, 108

   Lowe, Mr. Robert (Lord Sherbrooke), on public-school life at
       Winchester, 80;
     and the Revised Educational Code, 167;
     and the Evidence Bill, 306

   Lowry, Mr., of Eton, 469n, 470n

   Loyola, Ignatius, Sir J. Stephen on, 56, 57

   Lush, Mr. Justice, his trial of the Tichborne case, 342;
     Criminal Law Commissioner, 378

   Lushington, Mr. Franklin, 137-139, 143, 144, 229

   Luther, Sir J. Stephen on, 56

   Luttrell, 471

   Lyall, Sir Alfred, his works and character, 353, 400, 458

   Lyndhurst, Lord, and Serjeant Stephen, 27

   Lytton, Earl of, Governor-General of India, his correspondence and
       friendship with Sir J. F. Stephen, 333, 349, 384, 386, 390, 391,
       404, 411, 451, 456;
     characteristics of, 387-390;
     confidential nature of their correspondence, 391;
     Sir J. F. Stephen on Lord Lytton's Indian policy, 391-401, 403;
     Ambassador at Paris, 451;
     his death, 477

   Macaulay, Kenneth, leader of the Midland Circuit, 136, 140, 173, 176;
     godfather of James Kenneth Stephen, 469

   Macaulay, Thomas Babington (Lord), as a writer compared with Sir J.
       Stephen, 54, 55;
     on the meetings at Holland House, 60;
     his patriotism, 161;
     his literary style, 162, 163, 417;
     Sir J. F. Stephen's obituary notice of, 182;
     on Church and State, 219;
     impression of his Indian essays on Sir J. F. Stephen, 233;
     advised Sir J. Stephen to accept Indian appointment, 235;
     his share in preparing the Indian Code, 247, 248;
     personal claims of Impey on Macaulay, 429;
     character of his essay on Hastings, 430;
     Macaulay's imaginative process contrasted with Sir J. F. Stephen's
       judicial method, 430-432;
     examples of the former's audacious rhetoric, 432, 433;
     effect of Sir J. F. Stephen's regard for Macaulay on his
       criticisms, 433, 434

   Macaulay, Zachary, his share in the suppression of slavery, 17, 28,
       47;
     as a philanthropist, 309

   Mackintosh, 60

   'Macmillan's Magazine,' 177

   Madras, its administrative regulations anterior to 1834, 252;
     the famine in, 392

   Maine, Sir Henry Sumner, his career at Cambridge and his friendship
       with Sir J. F. Stephen, 93, 101, 102, 104, 110, 111, 153, 300,
       385;
     his journalistic work on the 'Morning Chronicle,' 'Cambridge
       Essays,' 'Saturday Review,' and 'St. James's Gazette,' 148-150,
       460;
     Stephen's review and criticisms of his 'Ancient Law,' 205, 413, 417;
     his work as legal member of the Council of India, 233, 234, 249,
       250, 253, 261-263, 267;
     revises Stephen's draft scheme for consolidating the Acts relating
       to India, 355;
     Stephen's and Maine's interest in Indian matters, 376, 392, 400;
     his death, and biographical notice by Stephen, 466, 467;
     the latter appoints Maine's son clerk of assize, 467, 475

   Maitland, Professor, on Sir J. F. Stephen's writings, 415, 416, 431

   Manchester School, the, 225, 310, 394

   Manning, Cardinal, 200, 365, 366, 369, 371, 373

   Mansel, Dean, introduces German philosophy into England, 105;
     Sir J. F. Stephen on his 'Metaphysics,' 182

   Mansel, Mr., assists Lord Lawrence in the administration of the
       Punjab, 255

   Mansfield, Lord, his relations with James Stephen, 5-7

   'Maria,' 12, 13, 15

   Marriage, Mill's theories concerning, 329, 330

   Martial Law, Sir J. F. Stephen on, 229

   Martineau, Dr., his connection with the Metaphysical Society, 361

   Martyn, Henry, 57

   Matthews, Mr. Henry, Home Secretary, and the Lipski trial, 446, 447

   Maule, Mr., member of the Jamaica Commission, 228

   Maurice, Professor F. D., of King's College, London, his influence on
       Sir J. F. Stephen, 88, 116, 124, 127;
     formerly an 'Apostle' at Cambridge, 100;
     his influence at Cambridge, 105;
     his style of preaching, 124, 125

   Mauritius, the, Sir George Stephen and the slave trade in, 28

   Max Müller, Professor, his 'Science of Thought' reviewed by Sir J. F.
       Stephen, 455

   Maxwell, Clerk, an 'Apostle' at Cambridge, 102;
     anecdote concerning, 103

   Maybrick, Mrs., her trial, 447

   Mayo, Earl of, Sir J. F. Stephen's contribution to his life, 246n,
       248, 282-290, 342;
     his hunting parties in India, 245;
     Sir J. F. Stephen on his character and work in India 291;
     account of his murder, 291;
     and the State ceremonial in Calcutta, 291-295;
     incident connected with the trial of his murderer, 292, 293;
     legislative work in India, 305

   Melbourne, Lord, on Sir J. Stephen at the Colonial Office, 49

   Merivale, Charles, an 'Apostle' at Cambridge, 100

   Merivale, Mr. Herman, and the consolidation of Acts relating to
       India, 354

   Metaphysical Society, the, its inception, 360;
     its first members, 361;
     Sir J. F. Stephen's connection with and contributions to, 361-375

   Metaphysics, Sir J. F. Stephen and, 104, 114

   Miall, Edward, Education Commissioner (1858), 165

   Middleton, Conyers, his quarrel with the Rev. Richard Venn, 33, 34

   Mill, James, his influence at Cambridge, 123;
     his advocacy of Codification, 246, 247;
     his share in the suppression of slavery, 309;
     as a political economist, 311;
     allusion to, 233;
     the effect of his writings on Macaulay, 433;
     Mill on Criminal Law, 424

   Mill, John Stuart, Sir James Stephen's acquaintance with, 60, 76;
     on hell and God, 74;
     Sir J. F. Stephen on his 'Political Economy,' 104;
     influence at Cambridge, 105, 123;
     and on Sir J. F. Stephen, 124, 182, 183, 193, 202, 205, 206, 275;
     Chairman of the Jamaica Committee, 228-230;
     estrangement from Sir J. F. Stephen, 230, 231;
     his theories concerning liberty, 299, 308-340;
     his controversy with W. G. Ward, 367;
     his indifference to evolution theories, 375

   Millar, Mr. A. H., his account of the Dundee election, 344n

   Milner, Miss Sibella. See Stephen, Mr. James

   Milner, Mr., of Poole, his kindness to James Stephen, 3

   Milner, Mr. George, 11, 13

   Milner, Mr. Isaac, Evangelical leader at Cambridge, 31, 35, 36

   Milner, Mr. Joseph, educates Rev. John Venn, 35

   Milner, Mr. William, merchant, his bankruptcy, 3;
     marries Miss Elizabeth Stephen, 8n

   Milnes, Monckton, an 'Apostle' at Cambridge, 100, 102

   Milton, John, 103, 359, 465

   Missionaries in India, 299

   Mister, hanged for attempted murder 77

   Mivart, Mr. St. George, 455

   Mohammedanism, 459

   Moltke, Field-Marshal von, 319

   Monteagle, Lord, on Sir J. Stephen as a talker, 53

   Moody and Sankey, James Kenneth Stephen's 'constitutional' opposition
       to, 471

   More, Sir Thomas, 420

   Morison, Miss Mary. See Stephen, Serjeant

   Morison, Mr. William Maxwell, 8n

   Morley, Mr. John, connection with the 'Saturday Review,' 150;
     invites Sir F. J. Stephen to write 'Carlyle' for his series, 203;
     replies to Stephen's criticisms of Mill, 339, 340

   'Morning Chronicle,' the, 148-150

   'Morning Herald,' the, 14

   'Morning Post,' the, Master James Stephen's connection with, 14

   Morton, Mr., village postmaster at Ravensdale, 407

   Mourne Mountains, 406

   Mozley, Rev. T., 49n

   Munro, Professor, 93

   Murder, curious punishment for, anterior to 1487, 421

   Napier, Macvey, his 'Correspondence' cited, 55n, 88

   Napoleon, Sir F. J. Stephen on his captivity, 359, 360

   'National Review,' the, 163, 484

   Navigation Act, its provisions enforced by Nelson, 16

   Nazim, Nawab, 254

   Nelson, General, his share in the execution of Gordon, 227-230

   Nelson, Horatio, captain of the 'Boreas,' enforces Navigation Act, 16

   Nettlefold and Chamberlain arbitration case, 231, 232

   Newark, Sir J. F. Stephen, Recorder of, 169, 236

   Newcastle, Duke of, his interest in J. D. Cook, 150, 165;
     chairman of Royal Commission on Education (1858), 165

   Newman, Cardinal, review of his 'Apologia' by Sir J. F. Stephen, 175,
       190, 192;
     their acquaintance
     and discussions on theology, 190-200, 366;
     Newman's ascetic and monastic views, 219, 338;
     his 'Grammar of Assent,' 365

   Newman's Rooms, Oxford, 105

   Newton, John, 34

   'Nineteenth Century,' the, its account of the Metaphysical Society,
       360;
     contributions to, 365, 366, 379, 381, 427n, 454, 455, 478, 486

   North, Christopher, wrestling bout with Ritson, 95

   'Northampton Mercury,' the, 30

   Northbrook, Lord, 395

   North-Western Provinces (India), executive orders for, 252, 254

   Novels, 109, 114, 123, 345, 484

   Nuccoll, Mrs., daughter of Mr. James Stephen, 2

   'Nuncomar and Impey,' Sir J. F. Stephen's book on, 428-434, 484

   O'Connell, Daniel, the Agitator, 28, 82

   Old Bailey, professional experiences at the, 302, 303

   Orange, Prince of, 21

   Ordnance Department Commission, Sir J. F. Stephen chairman of, 462,
       463

   Oudh, executive orders applicable to, 253

   Oxford, Newman's meetings at, 105

   'Oxford Essays,' 149

   Oxford movement, Sir J. Stephen and the, 57, 58

   Oxford University confers the D.C.L. degree on Sir J. F. Stephen, 402

   Paine, Thos., his 'Age of Reason,' Sir J. F. Stephen's impressions
       concerning, 84;
     allusion to, 125;
     and the 'Rights of Man,' 311

   Paley, William, his Utilitarian tendencies, 35;
     Sir J. F. Stephen on his writings and teachings, 105, 124, 126,
       193, 226, 368

   'Pall Mall Gazette,' the, Sir J. F. Stephen's connection with, and
       other particulars concerning, 169, 198n, 212-227, 232, 241,
       299, 306, 307, 340, 351, 381

   Palmer, trial of, 146, 156

   Palmerston, Lord, article on his death, 216-219;
     effect of his death on parties, 222

   Pantheism, Newman and, 192

   Parke, Baron, 442

   Parker, Theodore, 194, 195

   Parknasilla, residence at, 405

   Parliamentary Government, Sir J. F. Stephen on, 320, 350, 351

   Pascal, 226

   Pattison, Mark, on the meetings in Newman's Rooms at Oxford, 105;
     his connection with the 'Saturday Review,' 150;
     his share in the Education Commission (1858), 165;
     his connection with the Metaphysical Society, 361

   Peacock, Sir Barnes, Chief Justice of Calcutta, 235;
     his share in Indian law reforms, 248, 267

   Pearson, Charles Henry, 120

   Peel, Sir Robert, connection of his followers with the 'Morning
       Chronicle,' 148;
     his reform of the criminal law, 247

   Pember, Mr., 467, 468

   Perceval, Mr. Spencer, his Orders in Council, 19;
     murdered, 20

   Perry, Sir Erskine, and consolidation of Acts relating to India, 355

   'Peter Simple,' 168

   'Pilgrim's Progress,' the, 69

   Pitt, Wilberforce's antagonism toward, 18

   Place, Francis, and Zachary Macaulay, 309

   Plato, 97, 358, 363

   Politics, Sir J. F. Stephen's views on and interest in, 104,
       106-109, 113, 160, 161, 222-225, 453, 456, 460-462

   Pollock, Chief Baron, description of, 140;
     appoints Stephen revising barrister, 173;
     arbitrator in the Nettlefold and Chamberlain case, 232

   Pollock, Sir Frederick, on Sir J. F. Stephen's 'History of the
       Criminal Law,' 418

   Pontius Pilate, 326

   Poole, James Stephen's enterprise at, 4

   Pope, 34, 400

   Popish plots, Sir J. F. Stephen's account of, 420

   Positivism, Sir. J. F. Stephen's views on, 161, 335-339, 374, 454

   Price and the 'Rights of Man,' 311

   Price, William, the 'Druid,' 450

   Prize Appeal Court of the Privy Council, the, James Stephen's
       connection with, 17

   Protestantism, Newman on, 193;
     and Rationalism, 309, 310

   'Public Advertiser,' the, James Stephen's contributions to, 5

   Public Schools Commission, the, 81

   Punishment considered in its relation to revenge, 161, 162;
     and to Mill's theory, 322, 323

   Punjab, executive orders applicable to the, 253;
     administration of the province by Lord Lawrence, 255, 285;
     its 'Civil Code,' 255;
     regulations relating to the Punjab consolidated, 256;
     Land Revenue Act, 256-258, 277;
     Criminal Tribes Act and measure repressing kidnapping of children,
       258, 259, 283

   Purbeck Island, James Stephen shipwrecked on, 2

   Purgatory, the doctrine of, 372

   Puritanism, Sir J. F. Stephen and, 309, 336, 368

   'Quo Musa Tendis,' James Kenneth Stephen's, 476

   Raleigh, allusion to, 420

   Rapin's History, Master James Stephen's early acquaintance with, 9

   Rationalism, Sir J. Stephen and, 56;
     its exponents combine with Protestants against Sacerdotalism, 309;
     Sir J. F. Stephen and, 371

   Ravenscroft, Miss. See Stephen, Sir George

   Reade, Charles, Sir J. F. Stephen on his 'Never Too Late to Mend,'
       158

   'Reasoner,' the, attacked by the 'Saturday Review,' 155

   'Record,' the, criticised by the 'Saturday Review,' 155

   'Reflector,' the, James Kenneth Stephen's paper, 474, 475

   Reform Bill of 1832, Sir J. F. Stephen on the, 224, 247

   Renan, his writings, 369, 422

   Ricardo as a political economist, 205, 311, 312

   Richardson, Mr. Joseph, of the 'Morning Post,' 14

   Ritson, the wrestler, 95

   Roberts's 'Hannah More,' 24n

   Robespierre, Sir J. F. Stephen's reflections on, 180

   Robinson, Crabb, on James Stephen, 33

   'Robinson Crusoe,' 69, 155, 156

   Rogers, Rev. William, on the Education Commission (1858), 165-167

   Roman Catholicism, Sir George Stephen and, 29;
     Sir J. Stephen and, 56-58;
     Sir J. F. Stephen and, 191, 194, 219-222, 366-368, 372, 373, 455

   Roman rule in Syria, an analogy, 297;
     in Palestine, 326

   Romilly, Lord, and Sir J. Stephen, 22;
     his efforts to reform the criminal law, 247;
     retires from Mastership of the Rolls, 343

   'Rotuli Parliamentorum,' 414

   Roy, Ram Mohun, founder of the Brahmos sect, 260

   Rugby School, visit to, 76;
     contrasted with Eton, 81

   Rundle, Rev. Thomas, and the Rev. Richard Venn, 34

   Ruskin, Mr. John, an expositor of Carlyle's socialistic theories,
       202;
     his connection with the Metaphysical Society, 361

   Russell, Lord Arthur, 386

   'Russell on Crimes,' 376

   Russia, Bentham and codification in, 246;
     and the Eastern Question, 394, 395

   Ryan, Sir Edward, his position in the Privy Council, 89n

   St. Christopher's, West Indies, members of the Stephen family at, 2,
       11, 14, 16, 17

   'St. James's Gazette,' the, particulars concerning, 457n, 460, 474

   Sainte-Beuve, the writings of, 226, 298

   Salisbury, Sir J. F. Stephen at, 343

   Salisbury, Marquis of, 354, 355, 392, 401

   Sandars, Thomas Collett, 152, 178, 197

   'Sandford and Merton,' 72

   'Saturday Review,' the, Sir J. F. Stephen's connection with, 96, 147,
       148, 152-165, 167, 375, 466, 468;
     its first editor, 149, 150, 165;
     some of its noted contributors, 150-152;
     characteristics of the journal, 150, 153, 154;
     its arraignment of popular idols and contemporary journals,
       154-157, 160-162;
     secession from, 177;
     character of its 'Middles,' 178

   Savigny, John Austin and, 356

   Schiller, 68

   Scott, Dr., at Cambridge, 94

   Scott, Sir Walter, 40;
     his works quoted, 142, 319, 326;
     literary character of his 'History,' 417

   Scroggs, Sir William, 419, 420

   Seditious libels, 84, 423

   Seeley, Professor, and his 'Ecce Homo,' 200, 221

   Selborne, Lord, 343;
     his connection with the Metaphysical Society, 361

   Selden Society, the, its objects, 379

   Senior, Nassau, friendship with Sir J. Stephen, 60;
     Education Commissioner (1858), 165-167

   Sermon on the Mount, the, 126, 132, 213n

   Shakespeare's 'Henry the Fifth,' 68

   Sharpe, Granville, Sir J. Stephen's acquaintance with, 55

   Shelley, views on his essays, 103

   Sherbrooke, Lord. See Lowe, Mr. Robert

   Sheridan, Richard Brinsley, 21, 433

   Sheridan, Mr., innkeeper at Achill, 409

   Sidgwick, Professor, on Sir J. F. Stephen and the 'Apostles,' 103;
     his connection with the Metaphysical Society, 361, 362

   Simeon, Rev. Charles, founder of the 'Sims,' 35, 128

   Simla, Sir J. F. Stephen at, 237, 240, 243, 245, 304

   Singh, Ram, of the Kookas sect, 296, 297, 326

   Slave trade, the Stephen family and the 2, 15-17, 28, 46, 47, 402

   Smart, Christopher, the crazy poet, 4, 5, 9

   Smith, Adam, his political economy, 205

   Smith, Mr. Bullen, his share in the Indian Contract Act, 276

   Smith, Mr. George, Sir J. F. Stephen's connection with, 178, 183,
       212, 213

   Smith, Mr. Goldwin, connection with the 'Saturday Review,' 150;
     Education Commissioner (1858), 165

   Smith, Henry John Stephen (mathematician), 120, 185;
     memoir, 120n;
     estimate of his character and powers, 121;
     Stephen's account of their relations, 122

   Smith, Mr. Reginald J., 469n, 474

   Smith, Sydney, and the 'Clapham Sect,' 55n;
     as a clergyman, 118;
     and the Church of England, 471

   Smith, Mr. W. H., appoints Sir. J. F. Stephen chairman of Ordnance
       Commission, 462, 463

   Smith, Elder & Co., Messrs., publishers of the 'Cornhill Magazine,'
       177

   Smyth, Professor William, death of, 89

   Sneem Harbour, 405

   Snow, Captain Parker, arctic explorer, 167, 168, 173

   'Social Science Association,' the, Sir J. F. Stephen's address to,
       246n

   Socialism, Sir J. F. Stephen and, 104, 312, 462

   Socinianism, Newman and, 192

   Sortaine, Mr., anti-papist, 75

   Southey, Robert, his literary labours, 163

   Spain, Bentham and codification in, 246

   Spanish, Sir J. F. Stephen's study of the language, 435, 464

   Spanish Inquisition, 325, 326, 422

   Spedding, James, friendship with Sir J. Stephen, 59;
     and J. F. Stephen, 97;
     an 'Apostle' at Cambridge, 100, 102

   Spencer, Mr. Herbert, 311, 453, 454

   Spiritual Courts, history of the, 422

   Spring Rice, Mr. Cecil, and the 'Etonian,' 470

   Stafford election petition, 235

   Stanley, Dean, 185;
     his sermon on Lord Lawrence, 468

   Star Chamber, the, 420

   State trials, 146, 156, 379, 417

   Staubbach, the, 42

   Steele, Sir Richard, his quarrel with Addison, 430

   Stent, Mr., Mrs., Miss Anne and Thomas, 9, 12, 13. See also
       Stephen, Mr. James

   Stephen, Mr. Alexander, 2

   Stephen, Sir Alexander Condie, K.C.M.G., 1n

   Stephen, Sir Alfred, 24, 25;
     his pamphlets, 24n;
     descendants, 25

   Stephen, Miss Anne Mary. See Dicey, Mr. Thomas

   Stephen, Miss Caroline Emelia, 65n, 66

   Stephen, Miss Elizabeth. See Milner, Mr. William

   Stephen, Miss Frances Wilberforce, 42, 65

   Stephen, Sir George, 'Life' of his father James Stephen, 24n;
     characteristics of, 27;
     his career and writings, 28, 29, 113;
     marries Miss Ravenscroft, 29n;
     his children, 29n;
     his death, 29

   Stephen, Miss Hannah. See Farish, Professor William

   Stephen, Henry John, S. L., his life, writings, and family, 26, 27,
       120, 122

   Stephen Sir Herbert, 'Note' on Sir J. F. Stephen's life in Ireland,
       405-409

   Stephen, Mr. Herbert Venn, his birth, 42, 65;
     his army experiences, 38;
     discussions and relations with J. F. Stephen, 83;
     tour to Constantinople and death at Dresden, 88

   Stephen, Mr. James, of Ardenbraught, 1n

   Stephen, Mr. James, tenant farmer, and family, 1

   Stephen, Mr. James, writer on imprisonment for debt, 2;
     early history, 2;
     adventures on Purbeck Island, 2, 3;
     marriage to Miss Sibella Milner, 3, 5, 6;
     commercial failure, 3;
     manager of Sir John Webbe's estate, 4;
     imprisoned in King's Bench prison for debt, 4;
     efforts to prove illegality of imprisonment, 4;
     consequent popularity among fellow-prisoners, 4, 5;
     arguments and writings on the subject, 5, 6;
     removed to the 'New Jail,' 5, 6;
     'Blarney' Thompson's portrait of, 6;
     release of Stephen from prison, 6;
     connection with the legal profession, 6-8;
     his family, death of his wife, 8;
     his death, 8

   Stephen, Mr. James, Master in Chancery, at King's Bench Prison, 5, 9;
     education and early training, 8, 9;
     his relations with the Stents, 9-12;
     chequered career, 10;
     studies law at Aberdeen, 11;
     legal business in London, 11;
     his love affairs, 12-15;
     life as a journalist, 14;
     called to the Bar, 14;
     practice at St. Christopher's, 14;
     marriage to Miss Stent, 15;
     character, 15;
     speech against slavery, 15;
     attends trial of slaves for murder at Barbadoes, 16;
     prosecutes planter for ill-treating negro children, 16;
     flourishing law practice at St. Christopher's, 16, 17;
     returns to England, 17;
     employment in the Cockpit, 17;
     joins Wilberforce in his anti-slavery crusade, 17;
     death of his first wife, 17;
     second marriage, to Mrs. Clarke, 17;
     her eccentricities, 18; relations with Wilberforce, 18;
     his pamphlet on the slave trade, 18;
     his 'War in Disguise,' 19;
     the policy suggested therein adopted by the Government, 19;
     enters Parliament, 19, 20;
     Brougham's criticism of Stephen, 20;
     speech of Stephen in opposition to Benchers' petition, 20, 21;
     Parliamentary encounter with Whitbread, 21;
     resigns his seat as a protest against slackness of Government in
       suppressing the slave trade, 21, 22;
     Master in Chancery, 22, 32;
     death of his second wife, 22;
     town and country residences, 22, 23;
     his works on the slave trade, 22, 23, 32;
     example of his prowess, 23;
     his faith in the virtue of port wine, 23;
     death and burial, 23, 24;
     relatives, 24;
     authorities for his life, 24;
     his children, 25-33

   Stephen, His Honour Judge, son of Serjeant Stephen, 27n

   Stephen, Sir James, father of Sir James Fitzjames, 25;
     birth and early training, 31;
     the 'Clapham Sect,' 24n;
     college life, 31;
     official appointments, 32;
     character, 33;
     marriage to Miss Venn, 33, 130;
     influence of the Venns over, 36, 59;
     visit to the Continent, 41;
     birth of his eldest son, 42;
     illness, 42;
     Counsel to the Colonial Office and Board of Trade, 42;
     adopts F. W. Gibbs, 42;
     Sir F. J. Stephen's life of his father, 43;
     Sir James's 'Essays in Ecclesiastical Biography,' 43, 54;
     relations with Sir Henry Taylor, 43;
     duties and influence at the Colonial Office, 44-46;
     gluttony for work, 45, 50;
     nicknames, 46;
     interest in the suppression of slavery, 46, 48;
     appointed Assistant Under-Secretary, 48;
     resigns Board of Trade, 49;
     share in the establishment of responsible government in Canada, 49;
     sensitive and shy in disposition, 51, 52;
     tenacity of opinion, 52;
     perfection and richness of his conversational diction, 52-54;
     character of his essays and letters, 54, 55;
     religious creed and sympathies, 55-59;
     distinguished acquaintances and friends, 59, 60;
     distaste for general society and feasts, 60, 61;
     his ascetic temperament and systematic abstemiousness, 61;
     delight in family meetings, 61;
     evangelical character of his household, 61-63;
     as a father, 63, 64;
     physical and personal characteristics, 64;
     family, 65;
     talks with Fitzjames, 69, 75, 76, 82, 84, 89;
     concern for Fitzjames's health, 74-76;
     places his sons at Eton, 77, 78;
     anxiety concerning his son Herbert, 84;
     letter to Fitzjames, 85;
     effect of Herbert's death on, 88;
     illness and resignation of his post, 89;
     made a Privy Councillor and created K.C.B., 89;
     Regius Professor of Modern History at Cambridge, 89;
     delivery, reception and publication of his lectures, 89, 90;
     accepts professorship at Haileybury, 91;
     desires a clerical career for Fitzjames, 113, 118;
     and Fitzjames's views on theology, 124, 127, 128;
     Sir James satirised in 'Little Dorrit,' 159;
     his criticisms of Fitzjames's literary work, 162, 163;
     on the slavery of a journalistic career, 163, 164;
     suggestions to Fitzjames for a legal history, 164, 414;
     last days and death, 169, 170;
     inscription on his tombstone, 170

   Stephen, Lady, birth, 36n;
     marriage, 33;
     personal characteristics, 39, 40;
     love of the poets, 40;
     devotion to her husband and children, 40;
     serenity of disposition, 40, 41;
     religious convictions, 41;
     her reminiscences of Switzerland, 42;
     her diary, 66, 67;
     Sir F. J. Stephen's letters to, from India, 238, 291-296;
     last years and death, 300, 301

   Stephen, Sir James Fitzjames--Family History: James Stephen
       (great-grandfather), 1-8;
     Master James Stephen (grandfather) and his children, 9-33;
     the Venns, 33-41;
     Sir James Stephen (father), 41-65

   Stephen, Sir James Fitzjames--Early Life: Birth, 65n, 66;
     material for his biography, 66, 67;
     examples of a retentive memory, 67, 68;
     infantile greeting to Wilberforce, 67;
     acquaintance with the poets and other standard works, 68, 69;
     precocious views on religion and moral conduct, 69-72;
     love for his father, their talks on theology and other subjects,
       69, 71, 75, 76, 82, 84;
     home life and behaviour, 71, 72;
     school life at Brighton and the effect of an excess of Evangelical
       theology received there, 72-74, 76;
     visits Rugby, impression of Dr. Arnold, 76;
     at Eton, account of his public school life, 77-82;
     argument with Herbert Coleridge on the subject of Confirmation, 82;
     contempt for sentimental writers, 83;
     discussions with his brother Herbert on ethics, 83, 84;
     progress at Eton, his contemporaries and amusements, 84, 85;
     visit to the Beamonts, 85;
     leaves Eton, 86;
     enters King's College, London, 86;
     enters its debating society, 87;
     progress of his studies, 87;
     his opinion of Henry Venn, 87;
       and Dr. Jelf, 88;
     relations with F. D. Maurice, 88;
     death of his brother Herbert, 88;
     analysis of his character in his Cambridge days, 91, 92;
     dislike for mathematics and classics, 93, 94;
     Mr. Watson on his Cambridge career, 94, 95;
     distaste for athletics generally, 95;
     but fondness for walking as an exercise, 96;
     his Alpine ascents, 96;
     tutors and contemporaries at Cambridge, 97;
     his share in a scene during one of the debates, at the Union, 98,
       99;
     encounters with Sir William Harcourt, 99, 106;
     connection with the Cambridge Conversazione Society, 100-108;
     themes supported by him whilst an 'Apostle,' 103-106;
     theological opinions at this period, 106;
     interest in contemporary politics, the French Revolution, 107-109;
     and the Gorham case, 109;
     visits Paris, 109;
     his affection for Cambridge and reasons for his failure there,
       110-114;
     reading for the Bar, 114;
     autobiographical memoranda and criticisms dealing with the choice
       of a profession, 114-116;
     a clerical career suggested, 117;
     enters the Inner Temple, 118;
     early legal education and practice, 118, 119;
     introduction to journalism, 119;
     takes LL.B. degree, Lond., 119;
     relations with Grant Duff and Smith, 119-122;
     his readings of Stephen's Commentaries, Bentham, Greg, Lardner, and
       Paley, 123, 124;
     impressions of Maurice, 124, 125;
     recollections of his theology by Mr. Llewelyn Davies, 125, 126;
     the 'Christian Observer,' 127-129;
     autobiographical account of his courtship and marriage, 129, 130

   Stephen, Sir James Fitzjames--The Bar and Journalism: Manifestation
       of moral and mental qualities described, 131, 132;
     his powerful affections and lasting attachments, 133;
     the positions of journalism and the law as affecting his career,
       134-136;
     called to the Bar, 136;
     first brief, 136;
     joins the Midland Circuit, 136-138;
     his views on the English Bar, 139;
     contemporaries on Circuit, 139;
     on monastic life, 139, 140;
     at the Crown Court, 140;
     characteristics of judges with whom he had intercourse, 140;
     Mr. Justice Wills's recollections of Fitzjames, 141-144;
     method and manner as an advocate, 144, 145;
     distaste for professional technicalities, 145, 146;
     interest in criminal trials, 146;
     the Bacon case, 146-148, 173;
     work as a journalist, 148;
     contributes to the 'Morning Chronicle,' 'Christian Observer,' 'Law
       Magazine,' 149;
     'Saturday Review,' 152-155;
     criticisms on novels and novelists, 155-161;
     opposition to the policy of the Manchester School, 160, 161;
     his views on theology and denunciation of Positivism, 161;
     doctrine of revenge and punishment, 161;
     Sir James Stephen on Fitzjames's literary work, 162-164;
     a legal history attempted and abandoned, 164, 165;
     work on the Education Commission (1858), 165-167;
     literary work and interest in Arctic adventure, 167;
     the case of Captain Parker Snow, 167, 168, 173;
     Recorder of Newark (1859), 169;
     last days and death of his father, 169-171;
     his essay on the Wealth of Nature, 170;
     appreciation of James Grant Duff, 171;
     death of John Austin and Lord Macaulay (1859), 172;
     enumerating his labours during this period, 172;
     progress at the bar, 173;
     complimented by Mr. Justice Willes, 173;
     revising barrister for North Derby, 173;
     presented with a red bag, 173;
     Circuit successes in 1862-3, 173;
       reflections and performances during this period, 174, 175;
     the two principal cases, 175;
     his defence of a murderer, 176;
     character of his literary work: 'Essays by a Barrister,'
       contributions to the 'London Review,' 'Cornhill Magazine,' and
       'Fraser's,' 177-184;
     his conduct of Dr. Williams's trial, 184-187;
     his theological views at this time, 188-200;
     his acquaintance and discussion with Newman, 190-200;
     his articles in 'Fraser's Magazine' and intimacy with Froude, 200,
       201;
     friendship with the Carlyles, 201-203;
     his General 'View of the Criminal Law,' 203;
     aim and scope of the work, 203, 204;
     fundamental agreement with Bentham and Austin, 204;
     his article on Jurisprudence and criticism of Maine, 204-206;
     comparison of the English and French criminal systems, 206-210;
     divergence from Bentham, 207, 208, 210, 211;
     appreciation of the English system, 211;
     favourable reception of the work, 211;
     Mr. Justice Willes and the Press on his works and his ability and
       eloquence as an advocate, 211, 212;
     connection with the 'Pall Mall Gazette,' 212;
     his contemporaries and antagonists on the journal, 212, 213;
     number of articles appearing in its columns, 213, 214;
     character of his productions and method of procedure, 214-216;
     his article on Palmerston as an example of his style, 217, 218;
     reflections on his characteristics as a journalist, 218, 219;
     breadth of theological views, 218-222;
     political convictions, his liberalism defined, 222-225;
     summary of his literary activity at this time (1865-1878), 225,
       226;
     his literary tastes and aspirations, 226, 227;
     his share in the agitation against Governor Eyre, 227-230;
     estrangement from J. S. Mill, 230, 231;
     professional work: arbitration cases, Nettlefold & Chamberlain,
       231, 232;
     takes silk in 1868, and acts as judge, 232;
     Counsel in election petition cases, 232, 233, 235;
     early and continued interest in India, 233;
     stimulated by presence of friends leads him to accept appointment,
       234-236;
     short residence in Ireland previous to departure for India, 235,
       236

   Stephen, Sir James Fitzjames--Indian Appointment: length of his
       stay and details of his domestic experiences in India, 237, 238;
     as a letter-writer, 238;
     style of his correspondence, frankness, 239, 240;
     paternal affection, 240, 241;
     insatiable appetite for journalistic work, 241;
     personal account of his official duties, 242;
     his estimate of Indian Civil servants, 243;
     his description of life in Calcutta, 244;
     friendships formed, 245;
     personal nature of his Indian story, 241, 242;
     sources from which it has been culled, 246n;
     his official work in India, 246;
     his views on the Penal Code, 247;
     Fitzjames and the initiation and development of legislation in
       India, 249, 250;
     on the framing of a code, 250;
     nature of his task, 252;
     his Act consolidating the Bengal Criminal Law (1871), 254;
     the Punjab Civil Code, 255, 256;
     the Punjab Land Revenue Act (1871), 256-258, 277;
     the Criminal Tribes Act, 258, 259, 283;
     the Native Marriages Act (1872), 260-266, 277;
     his share in amending the Penal Code, 266, 267;
     interest in the law relating to Seditious Libels, 267;
     his share in amending the Code of Criminal Procedure, 268-270, 277;
     his views on the Penal Code and the Code of Criminal Procedure,
       270, 278;
     his treatment of the Evidence Act, 271-275;
     his appreciation of the Limitation of Suits Act, 275, 276, 278;
     revision of the Contract Act, 276, 277;
     his Bills on Hindoo wills and oaths, 277;
     summary of the results of his official labours, 277, 278;
     Sir C. P. Ilbert and other critics on his legislation, 279;
     his intellectual fitness for the work, 279-282;
     the special principles of Indian legislation, 282;
     as expounded in Lord Mayo's 'Life,' 282-289;
     as given in his 'Minute on the Administration of British India,'
       289-291;
     his account of Lord Mayo's work, his murder, State ceremonial, and
       trial of the murderer, 291-296;
     views on the prosecution and sentences of the Kookas sect, 296,
       297;
     last attendance at Legislative Council, 297

