Emil Strauss, the older of the two Swabian writers here represented (he was born at Pforzheim
in 1866), lived for a while in Brazil; from his experiences there he derived material for some
of his stories in The Ways of Men (1898), for his drama, unsuccessful from the point of view
of technique, Don Pedro (1899), and for his first novel Mine Host of the Angel (1900), the
tragi-comical history of a man who learns by experience, who deserts his wife and after a long
series of disappointments returns humbled to his home. The later narrative Mara, in the collection
entitled Hans and Grete (1909), is also the fruit of exotic experiences. This account of a
love in imagination has the same motif as one of the most original narratives of the Swiss
Spitteler, Imago, with the only difference that in Mara over-excitation of the brain is motivated
by tropical heat. Strauss is in all of his narratives an extremely acute psychologist, who
everywhere concentrates his attention upon the development of character, and whose work, as
appears in Mine Host of the Angel, is inclined toward a mild didacticism. This is especially
noticeable in the work that first made his name famous, the novel Death the Comforter (Freund
Hein, 1902), the story of a boy of musical disposition who is worried to death in school. Compared
with English and American literature, German literature has been said to be poor in stories
of childhood. This criticism hardly applies to the new century, which has been called the century
of the child. The fate of little Henry Lindner who is to be transformed by hook or by crook
from a dreamy musician into a circumspect efficient man, and who suffers shipwreck on the reefs
of mathematics, reminds us in many ways of the tragedy of the last Buddenbrook, Hanno, whose
delicate sensibility is crushed out by the discipline of the school. A few years later there,
appeared in Hermann Hesse's On the Rack (1906) another story of schoolboy martyrdom, and between
these two pessimistic works lay two sunshiny novels of childhood, Asmus Semper's Childhood
Land (1904), by Otto Ernst, and Gottfried Kämpfer (1904), by Hermann Anders Krüger. These were
the most successful novels of those years; Strauss' Death the Comforter is, next to the conclusion
of Buddenbrooks, the poetically most significant of these stories of childhood. The writer,
rich in comprehension of the vitality of the problems and in the delicacy of his treatment
of them, has not had to repeat himself: his novel Friction (1904) is a fine psychological study
in the form of a love story, in which life undertakes the education of two recalcitrant lovers;
and his latest work, The Naked Man (1912), is a powerful historical novel.

Hermann Hesse, who is often grouped with Strauss, is, in spite of his belonging to the same
stock, a different nature; he is more of a lyricist, and his lyrical poems, though less well
known, take perhaps a higher rank than his novels. Even in these the lyrical mood outweighs
the human action; he ponders the riddles of nature more earnestly than the riddles of humanity.
Among human beings, however, his favorite is the gentle St. Francis of Assisi, to whom he has
devoted a splendid little book.

Hesse was born in 1877 at Calw in Württemberg; it is his own youth that he describes in the
novel On the Rack. After fleeing from the Theological Seminary at Moulbronn he became a machinist;
then he worked in a bookstore at Basel, where he found opportunity to study at the University.
He spent a few years at Munich, and finally made Switzerland his home by establishing himself
in the neighborhood of Bern. In respect to literary relations he had even before this acquired
a certain right to be called a Swiss; for his work may be regarded as a continuation of the
line of development that runs from Jean Paul to Gottfried Keller. There is a kind of resurrection
of Jean Paul in the wonderful descriptions of nature, the dreams of universal love and natural
piety, which we find in Hesse's first great novel Peter Camenzind (1904); no writer since Jean
Paul has bestowed such eloquent praise upon the clouds:

Show me in all the wide world the man who knows the clouds better and loves them more than
I do! Or show me the thing in the world that is more splendid than the clouds! They are playthings
and balm for the eyes, they are a blessing and divine gift, they are wrath and omnipotent death.
They are frail, tender, and peaceful, like the souls of the newly born; they are beautiful,
opulent, and lavish, like good angels; they are dark, unescapable, and pitiless, like the messengers
of death. They hover in silvery thin expanse, they sail laughingly white with a golden rim,
they stand at rest in yellow, red, and bluish tints; they creep up slowly and darkly threatening
like murderers, they rush with a headlong roar like mad horsemen, they hang sad and pensive
at equal heights like melancholy hermits. They have the forms of blessed isles and the forms
of blessing angels; they are like threatening hands, fluttering sails, a flight of cranes.
They float between God's heaven and the poor earth as fair symbols of all human longings, akin
to both--dreams of the earth, in which her sullied soul flies to the embrace of the pure heaven.
They are the eternal symbol of all wandering, all seeking, desiring, all homesickness. And
as they hang timidly and yearningly and persistently between earth and heaven, so the souls
of men hang timidly and yearningly and persistently between time and eternity.

From Gottfried Keller, on the other hand, Hesse has derived the specific gravity of realism;
and so the romantic life of the peasant boy Peter Camenzind concludes, after protracted roving
through Italy and France, like that of Green Henry, with a weary, resigned return home. The
novel On the Rack, which represents a falling off after this brilliant beginning, was followed
by a new efflorescence in Hesse's artistry with the novels Gertrude (1910) and the latest work
Rosshalde, a story of matrimony which combines the former merits of poetic atmosphere with
the merit of a greater concentration upon action. Between the two lie the collections of short
stories On this Side (1907) and Neighbors (1908). From the second is taken the story here translated,
In the Old Sun, which as an idyll of the Poorhouse has something of the qualities of Gottfried
Keller, while the mystic setting is quite the property of the Swabian author.

From the half-Swiss author Hermann Hesse to the full-blooded Swiss novelists is but a short
step. Among these, Ernst Zahn is the most widely read and the most fruitful. A succession of
voluminous novels (Erni Beheim, 1898, God's Puppets [Herrgottsfäden], 1901, Albin Indergand,
1901, Claire Marie, 1904, Luke Hochstrasser's House, 1907, Solitude, 1909, The Women of Tannò,
1911, The Apothecary of Little Worldville, 1913) and an equal number of collections of short
stories (Heart Struggles, 1893, Echo, 1895, New Tales of the Mountains, 1898, Men and Women,
1900, The Shady Side, 1903, Heroes of Every Day, 1905, Those Who Come and Go, 1908, What Life
Destroys, 1912) have come thick and fast; and since they all deal with the everyday fortunes
of the simple Alpine villagers, it was inevitable that in course of time a certain satiety
dulled admiration of the sheer inexhaustible store of motifs--for nobody can say that Zahn
ever exactly repeats himself. In particular, his fellow-countrymen are no longer quite willing
to regard him as the Swiss novelist par excellence. And yet Zahn is himself the very incarnation
of a fundamental trait of Swiss character; namely, the peculiar blending of practical common
sense and esthetic culture. Where else than in this veritable democracy could one and the same
man day in and day out serve soup to thousands of travelers, sit down at his desk after the
day's work was done and gather about him the children of his imagination, and then on the morrow
as president of the diet guide the deliberations of representatives of his canton of Uri? His
three professions of public man, innkeeper, and author, Zahn upholds with undiscriminating pride.

Ernst Zahn was born at Zurich in 1867 in the Café Littéraire, of which his father was lessee,
and among whose habitués Gottfried Keller was reckoned. He took up the paternal business, beginning
at the bottom of the ladder as a waiter in Geneva, Genoa, and Hastings, and in 1883 joined
his father, who had meanwhile taken a lease of the railroad restaurant at Göschenen. At the
last stop before entrance into the darkness of the Gotthard tunnel many a traveler to Italy
has doubtless been struck by the classic features and the proud bearing of the restaurateur,
without knowing that he saw before him the most widely read story-writer in the German language.
As to his private life Zahn published a few years ago in the magazine The Literary Echo a few
details from which we quote the following:

Little room with the writing table, the tall book-cases, the few pictures on the wall, and
the immovable, grand, curious mountain always peering in at thy window--little room with the
great hubbub all about thee, of thee I am to speak, and of him who sits within thy coziness!
It is not difficult to speak of thee: thou art a home, peaceful and lost to the world, although
the life of the world surges around thee like the sea around an island. Behind thou hast the
rumble of carts going hither and thither all summer long over three mountain passes, and before,
the daily rattle and roar of the great railway trains of the Gotthard. And yet thou art peaceful
and hast taught me that it is better to dwell in thee than in the bustling world, and hast
taught me that I do not need many men to make me happy in thee.... From the writing table there
is every few minutes a call to the dining rooms on the ground floor, where the author is metamorphosed
into a victualler. Many persons shake their heads at this transformation. To me the profession
of my father is an object of affection; I owe it an assured livelihood. Who knows but that
the author in me also owes it much of the spontaneity and joy of working?

But a fertile source of the author's joy of working is situated in a little dwelling of which
I mean to speak last in this account of my houses. It stands in the valley of Göschenen, at
the edge of the village, in the midst of a meadow. Round about tower the mountains; the gleaming
glacier of Damma throws its light in through the window panes. The valley is filled with a
great stillness. In the house five children, my children, live their untroubled lives, and
my wife guards them well, with her gentle and skilful hand to lead, and her affectionate patience
to understand her husband. In this, my mountain home, my life has found its haven. I hope to
dwell there until I must move into the last resting place of my career; I hope to work, and
I hope to attain to high and beautiful things; for I hear the bells of poetry mightily reverberating
from my mountains, marvelous, richly harmonious voices; and perhaps I shall one day succeed
in catching these tones in their clearest purity. Perhaps! There is hope; and hope is life!

The strenuous effort alluded to in these words, the great all-conquering achievement, the master
chime which peals from the heights, has indeed not yet attained fulfillment. One might say
of the work of Zahn as of the bell of Gerhart Hauptmann's bell-founder, "In the valley it vibrates,
not on the heights." We find neither great problems of humanity and civilization nor real men
of the heights. On the contrary, these "heroes of every day" are dwellers in the valley, harsh
and hard as the walls of granite which narrow their horizon; and if the author puts into these
rude vessels something of his own delicacy of feeling, as he attributes to Stephen the Smith
appreciation of the little Roman bronze figures which the trader has brought up from Italy,
such ennobling ingredients can sometimes enter only at the expense of consistency of characterization.

A more primitive power is manifest in the other Swiss, Jakob Schaffner, who in still higher
degree than Zahn deserves to be called a self-made man. Schaffner, who was born in 1875 at
Basel, belongs with Hans Sachs and Jakob Böhme among the poetic shoemakers. His immature first
novel, Wanderings (1905), has its best scenes in the workshop, and his later masterpiece, Konrad
Pilater (1910), is another story of a fantastic journeyman shoemaker. As the author himself
worked his way up with iron energy to culture and independence, so all of his creations are
endowed with something of a vaulting ambition, which is not depreciated by being treated with
a slight measure of irony. His Jack Heaven-High (1909) is a philosophizing journeyman who from
every capital of Europe pours forth his lyrico-cosmic effusions, and the hero of his historical
novel The Messenger of God (1911) is a Swiss dominic who at the conclusion of the Thirty Years'
War collects a motley rabble about him for new works of peace and single-handed makes of himself
the restorer of a devastated community. But with all the scope of the theme there is a lack
of genuine historical color; and compared with the great historical novel of Ricarda Huch,
this anachronistic picture of the past seems like the story of another Robinson Crusoe. Schaffner's
forte is after all the ground upon which he stood at the beginning; it is seen in the little
idylls from the life of the laboring classes which make up the contents of his two collections,
The Lantern (1905) and The Golden Oddity (1912). In the first collection, the story of The
Blacksmiths is a gem of narration; and so is the story here reproduced, The Iron Idol, which
also serves to illustrate the pedagogical tendency of all of Schaffner's work. The huge machine
is a symbol for cooperative activity, to which the individual may not put himself in opposition;
and the restless spirit that essays opposition is transformed against his will from a disturber
of the peace into the founder of a happy wedlock.

The final couple of our choice are two authors who have departed from the ways of Heimatkunst.
Jakob Wassermann, born in 1873 at Fürth, begins at least as a delineator of the things of his
home; for his first product, The Jews of Zirndorf (1897) is in its first part a legendary picture
taken from the history of the Fürth ghetto, and in its second part there comes into the foreground
the figure of Agathon Geyer, a Jewish messiah of the present, whose deep-seated longing to
see God conquers the narrow spirit of the law, of slavery and asceticism. A pendant to this
work is Wassermann's second novel, The Story of Young Renate Fuchs (1900). The development
of the new woman is intended to be represented in this book, the woman who through all confusion
and filthiness keeps her adamantine soul unscathed, to the moment when she attains her destiny,
namely, to spend a night of love with the dying Agathon Geyer and to bear him the first child
of a better time, Beatus, the fortunate. Sultry sensuality and outrageous bombast characterize
the work, the action of which is not clearly set forth, but floats in a sea of nebulous somnambulistic
vagueness. Visionary representation and mythical creation are indeed the program which Wassermann
lays out for himself in a theoretical treatise, The Art of Narrative. Ernst von Wolzogen, the
discoverer of Wassermann, and a critic who has perhaps contributed to an over-estimate of him,
declares that this author, who stood, especially at first, under the influence of the most
Asiatic of all the Russian novelists, Dostojewski, is the sole Oriental among the present generation
of literary Jews. "A fancy which in its luxurious revelling in blood, splendor, and magnificence
seems to us as Oriental as his meditative dreaminess and the subtle satisfaction with which
he traces the subterranean, labyrinthine paths of the life of the soul"--these are the salient
features which Wolzogen finds in the work of Wassermann.

One side of this characterization is confirmed by the next two works, the novels Moloch (1903)
and Alexander in Babylon (1904). In the former, a rustic of uncorrupted feeling and fanatical
sense of justice loses his honesty and goes to ruin in the mendacity of urban ways of doing
business; and in the latter, the Grecian hero and man of action is dragged into the intoxication
of Oriental luxury, voluptous cruelty, and dazzling magnificence.

The other side expresses itself in the attempted psychological solution of the riddles of criminality.
It is characteristic of Wassermann's predilection for these matters that in his novel Kasper
Hauser or Sluggishness of Heart (1909) he seeks to interpret anew and on the basis of scrupulous
attention to all the documents in the case the oft-treated story of the mysterious foundling
who came to light in Nuremberg in 1828 and who was supposed to be a cast-off prince of Baden.
Moreover, of the three narratives in the volume entitled The Sisters (1906), two are fantastically
constructed criminal cases which endeavor suggestively to explain the unusual and the baffling
by reference to mysterious undercurrents in the soul. One of these two stories is the Clarissa
Mirabel here translated, and no word need be said of the technical virtuosity with which the
most exquisite climax is attained through the utmost economy of means.

Many critics regard Wassermann as the pioneer of a new epic style. Even those who do not share
this opinion cannot deny him tenacity of purpose and a clear conception of what it is that
he aims to accomplish. Wassermann has selected the Oriental softness of the air of Vienna for
his place of abode; it is possible that his quasi elective affinity with it will save him from
the danger of falling a victim to the Moloch of the metropolis. In the year 1911 he wrote in
an autobiographical sketch.

For ten years I have lived in the neighborhood of Vienna. There are German critics who cannot
forgive me this choice of a domicile. But I still ask them to approve it. On my part I promise
them never to give in to the Capuan lassitude which, I might add, is nothing but a legend among
the superficial. True, the productive man is here more isolated, the man resolved to reach
a goal is here left more to his own resources, than elsewhere; but many stormy winds blow,
and if the post which one has taken is rendered dangerous, one's vigilance is enhanced. I am
thirty-eight years old and have a feeling that I am standing at the beginning of my career.
But to reach the end one would need to be--immortal.

The virtuosity of the narrator Wassermann may have served as a model for his younger fellow-townsman
Bernhard Kellermann (born at Fürth in 1879). He too is a seeker after new forms of expression
for psychical reactions; but he presents himself to us from the very first as a purer nature
of greater delicacy and lucidity. He introduces himself as a troubadour of narrative art in
his first two novels Yester and Li, a Story of Longing (1904) and Ingeborg (1905). With unutterable
tenderness and richness of tone he depicts in each of these two novels the love-longing of
a solitary nature, the substance of which is trembling yearning, and the fulfilment of which
is a fading dream. A solitary figure is the hero of the third novel, The Fool (1909), as well.
It is a young clergyman who settles in a small Franconian town with the sole purpose of doing
good. He visits those who are weary and heavy-laden; with pathetic faith in the goodness of
humanity he sees in every man a brother, and finally he suffers the Saviour's fate of pining
away and dying unrecognized for what he was. This is Kellermann's profoundest and best work,
and it would deservedly be reproduced here if considerations of space did not compel the selection
of a shorter narrative. As such a narrative God's Beloved (1911) suggested itself, the work
of a later period. For about the year 1910 a clearly recognizable change takes place in Kellermann's
work; he goes forth into the world, and sojourn abroad causes the gentle dreamer to awaken
into an energetically aggressive, almost brutal man of action. The sentimental stories of the
heart are followed by works of keen intuition, in which with compelling suggestiveness strange
human communities are comprehended and presented in the characteristic atmosphere of their
milieu. What we find in the insane asylum of God's Beloved we find also in the lives of Breton
fisherfolk in the novel The Sea (1910); it is unadulterated primitive nature, which blends
the roar of billows and the instinctive ingenuousness of the islanders into a mighty harmony.

If Kellermann's development should be taken as pointing the way for the German novel of the
future, we should have to conclude that Heimatkunst has been supplanted by exotic art. Specialties
are being cultivated, like that of the promising Willy Seidel (The Garden of Shuhan, Sakîje's
Song) in Oriental themes. Interest is growing in the literature of travel, and the great publishers
are already paying the traveling expenses of their authors, in order that they may see something
of the world and write about it. This is the manner in which Hermann Hesse's Trip to India
came into existence, and Kellermann has similarly published two books on Japan (A Promenade
in Japan, 1911, Sassayo Yassal, 1913). The danger of this tendency lies in the confusion of
poetic invention and journalistic report. Kellermann's most recent novel The Tunnel (1913),
which sold inside of a few months to the number of a hundred thousand copies, cannot be regarded
as a genuine work of art. It is not "the epic of iron and electricity, the Odyssey of modern
engineering and capitalism" which it was perhaps intended to be, but a fantastic special article
spun out into a moving-picture series of impressions of America and the possibilities of technical
accomplishment. As such it is a great proof of talent. This we perhaps see most clearly if
we compare it with Hauptmann's Atlantis; for we then perceive how much sharper are Kellermann's
eyes and how much more takingly he knows how to reproduce the bustling confusion of the modern
mart. But it is rather a caricature of the present than a Utopia of the future, and the idea
of the novel is lost in the abundance of individual motifs. It is to be hoped that this alienation
is not symptomatic in the development either of the gifted author or of German literature as
a whole. National questions will in the coming years summon Germany from fantastic world problems
back to consciousness of herself.

