'Lady Aylmer, I must be in a hurry lest there should be any mistake about this. There is no
question here for lawyers. Frederic must have been misled by a word or two which I said to
him with quite another purpose. Everybody concerned knows that the Belton estate goes to my
cousin Will. My poor father was quite aware of it.'

'That is all very well; and pray remember, my dear, that you need not attack me in this way.
I am endeavouring, if possible, to arrange the accomplishment of your own wishes. It seems
that Mr Belton himself does not claim the property.'

'There is no question of claiming. Because he is a man more generous than any other person
in the world,--romantically generous he has offered to give me the property which was my father's
for his lifetime; but I do not suppose that you would wish, or that Captain Aylmer would wish,
that I should accept such an offer as that.' There was a tone in her voice as she said this,
and a glance in her eye as she turned her face full upon her companion, which almost prevailed
against Lady Aylmer's force of character.

'I really don't know, my dear,' said Lady Aylmer. 'You are so violent.'

'I certainly am eager about this. No consideration on earth would induce me to take my cousin's
property from him.'

'It always seemed to me that that entail was a most unfair proceeding.'

'What would it signify even if it were which it was not? Papa got certain advantages on those
conditions. But what can all that matter? It belongs to Will Belton.'

Then there was another pause, and Clara thought that that subject was over between them. But
Lady Aylmer had not as yet completed her purpose. Shall I tell you, my dear, what I think you
ought to do?'

'Certainly, Lady Aylmer; if you wish it.'

'I can at any rate tell you what it would become any young lady to do under such circumstances.
I suppose you will give me credit for knowing as much as that. Any young lady placed as you
are would be recommended by her friends if she had friends able and fit to give her advice
to put the whole matter into the hands of her natural friends and her lawyer together. Hear
me out, my dear, if you please. At least you can do that for me, as I am taking a great deal
of trouble on your behalf. You should let Frederic see Mr Green. I understand that Mr Green
was your father's lawyer. And then Mr Green can see Mr Belton. And so the matter can be arranged.
It seems to me, from what I hear, that in this way, and in this way only; something can be
done as to the proposed marriage. In no other way can anything be done.'

Then Lady Aylmer had finished her argument, and throwing herself back into the carriage, seemed
to intimate that she desired no reply. She had believed and did believe that her guest was
so intent upon marrying her son, that no struggle would be regarded as too great for the achievement
of that object. And such belief was natural on her part. Mothers always so think of girls engaged
to their sons, and so think especially when the girls are penniless and the sons are well-to-do
in the world. But such belief, though it is natural, is sometimes wrong and it was altogether
wrong in this instance. 'Then,' said Clara, speaking very plainly,' nothing can be done.'

'Very well, my dear.'

After that there was not a word said between them till the carriage was once more within the
park. Then Lady Aylmer spoke again. 'I presume you see, my dear, that under these circumstances
any thought of marriage between you and my son must be quite out of the question at any rate
for a great many years.'

'I will speak to Captain Aylmer about it, Lady Aylmer.'

'Very well, my dear. So do. Of course he is his own master. But he is my son as well, and I
cannot see him sacrificed without an effort to save him.'

When Clara came down to dinner on that day she was again Miss Amedroz, and she could perceive
from Belinda's manner quite as plainly as from that of her ladyship that she was to have no
more tit-bits of hashed chicken specially picked out for her by Lady Aylmer's own fork. That
evening and the two next days passed, just as had passed the two first days, and everything
was dull, cold, and uncomfortable. Twice she had walked out with Frederic, and on each occasion
had thought that he would refer to what his mother had said; but he did not venture to touch
upon the subject. Clara more than once thought that she would do so herself; but when the moment
came she found that it was impossible. She could not bring herself to say anything that should
have had the appearance of a desire on her part to hurry on a marriage. She could not say to
him, 'If you are too poor to be married or even if you mean to put forward that pretence say
so at once.' He still called her Clara, and still asked her to walk with him, and still talked,
when they were alone together, in a distant cold way, of the events of their future combined
life. Would they live at Perivale? Would it be necessary to refurnish the house? Should he
keep any of the land on his own hands? These are all interesting subjects of discussion between
an engaged man and the girl to whom he is engaged; but the man, if he wish to make them thoroughly
pleasant to the lady, should throw something of the urgency of a determined and immediate purpose
into the discussion. Something should be said as to the actual destination of the rooms. A
day should be fixed for choosing the furnishing. Or the gentleman should declare that he will
at once buy the cows for the farm. But with Frederic Aylmer all discussions seemed to point
to some cold, distant future, to which Clara might look forward as she did to the joys of heaven.
Will Belton would have bought the ring long since, and bespoken the priest, and arranged every
detail of the honeymoon, tour and very probably would have stood looking into a cradle shop
with longing eyes.

At last there came an absolute necessity for some plain speaking. Captain Aylmer declared his
intention of returning to London that he might resume his parliamentary duties. He had purposed
to remain till after Easter, but it was found to be impossible. 'I find I must go up tomorrow,'
he said at breakfast. 'They are going to make a stand about the poor-rates, and I must be in
the House in the evening.' Clara felt herself to be very cold and uncomfortable. As things
were at present arranged, she was to be left at Aylmer Park without a friend. And how long
was she to remain there? No definite ending had been proposed for her visit. Something must
be said and something settled before Captain Aylmer went away.

'You will come down for Easter, of course,' said his mother.

'Yes; I shall come down for Easter, I think or at any rate at Whitsuntide.'

'You must come at Easter, Frederic,' said his mother.

'I don't doubt but I shall,' said he.

'Miss Amedroz should lay her commands upon him,' said Sir Anthony gallantly.

'Nonsense,' said Lady Aylmer.

'I have commands to lay upon him all the same,' said Clara; 'and if he will give me half an
hour this morning he shall have them.' To this Captain Aylmer, of course, assented as how could
he escape from such assent and a regular appointment was made, Captain Aylmer and Miss Amedroz
were to be closeted together in the little back drawing-room immediately after breakfast. Clara
would willingly have avoided any such formality could she have done so compatibly with the
exigencies of the occasion. She had been obliged to assert herself when Lady Aylmer had rebuked
Sir Anthony, and then Lady Aylmer had determined that an air of business should be assumed.
Clara, as she was marched off into the back drawing-room followed by her lover with more sheep-like
gait even than her own, felt strongly the absurdity and the wretchedness of her position. But
she was determined to go through with her purpose.

'I am very sorry that I have to leave you so soon,' said Captain Aylmer, as soon as the door
was shut and they were alone together.

'Perhaps it may be better as it is, Frederic; as in this way we shall all come to understand
each other, and something will be settled.'

'Well, yes; perhaps that will be best.'

'Your mother has told me that she disapproves of our marriage.'

'No; not that, I think, I don't think she can have quite said that.'

'She says that you cannot marry while she is alive that is, that you cannot marry me because
your income would not be sufficient.'

'I certainly was speaking to her about my income.'

'Of course I have got nothing.' Here she paused. 'Not a penny-piece in the world that I can
call my own.'

'Oh yes, you have.'

'Nothing. Nothing!'

'You have your aunt's legacy?'

'No; I have not. She left me no legacy. But as that is between you and me, if we think of marrying
each other, that would make no difference.'

'None at all, of course.'

'But in truth I have got nothing. Your mother said something to me about the Belton estate;
as though there was some idea that possibly it might come to me.'

'Your cousin himself seemed to think so.'

'Frederic, do not let us deceive ourselves. There can be nothing of the kind. I could not accept
any portion of the property from my cousin even though our marriage were to depend upon it.'

'Of course it does not.'

'But if your means are not sufficient for your wants I am quite ready to accept that reason
as being sufficient for breaking our engagement.'

'There need be nothing of the kind.'

'As for waiting for the death of another person for your mother's death, I should think it
very wrong. Of course, if our engagement stands there need be no hurry; but some time should
be fixed.' Clara as she said this felt that her face and forehead were suffused with a blush;
but she was determined that it should be said, and the words were pronounced.

'I quite think so too,' said he.

'I am glad that we agree. Of course, I will leave it to you to fix the time.'

'You do not mean at this very moment?' said Captain Aylmer, almost aghast.

'No; I did not mean that.'

'I'll tell you what. I'll make a point of coming down at Easter. I wasn't sure about it before,
but now I will be. And then it shall be settled.'

Such was the interview; and on the next morning Captain Aylmer started for London. Clara felt,
aware that she had not done or said all that should have been done and said; but, nevertheless,
a step in the right direction had been taken.

CHAPTER XXVI

THE AYLMER PARK HASHED CHICKEN COMES TO AN END

