THE NEW WORLD OF ISLAM

                               BY

                LATHROP STODDARD, A.M., PH.D. (Harv.)

               AUTHOR OF: THE RISING TIDE OF COLOUR,
                      THE STAKES OF THE WAR,
         PRESENT DAY EUROPE: ITS NATIONAL STATES OF MIND,
            THE TRENCH REVOLUTION IN SAN DOMINGO, ETC.

                            WITH MAP

                       SECOND IMPRESSION

                             LONDON

                      CHAPMAN AND HALL, LTD.

                              1922
                    PRINTED IN GREAT BRITAIN BY
                    RICHARD CLAY & SONS LIMITED.
                         BUNGAY, SUFFOLK

PREFACE

The entire world of Islam is to-day in profound ferment. From Morocco to China and from Turkestan
to the Congo, the 250,000,000 followers of the Prophet Mohammed are stirring to new ideas,
new impulses, new aspirations. A gigantic transformation is taking place whose results must
affect all mankind.

This transformation was greatly stimulated by the late war. But it began long before. More
than a hundred years ago the seeds were sown, and ever since then it has been evolving; at
first slowly and obscurely; later more rapidly and perceptibly; until to-day, under the stimulus
of Armageddon, it has burst into sudden and startling bloom.

The story of that strange and dramatic evolution I have endeavoured to tell in the following
pages. Considering in turn its various aspects--religious, cultural, political, economic, social--I
have tried to portray their genesis and development, to analyse their character, and to appraise
their potency. While making due allowance for local differentiations, the intimate correlation
and underlying unity of the various movements have ever been kept in view.

Although the book deals primarily with the Moslem world, it necessarily includes the non-Moslem
Hindu elements of India. The field covered is thus virtually the entire Near and Middle East.
The Far East has not been directly considered, but parallel developments there have been noted
and should always be kept in mind.

                                                      LOTHROP STODDARD.

                             CONTENTS

CHAP                                                         PAGE

INTRODUCTION: THE DECLINE AND FALL OF THE OLD ISLAMIC WORLD     1

I.    THE MOHAMMEDAN REVIVAL                                   20

II.   PAN-ISLAMISM                                             37

III.  THE INFLUENCE OF THE WEST                                75

IV.   POLITICAL CHANGE                                        110

V.    NATIONALISM                                             132

VI.   NATIONALISM IN INDIA                                    201

VII.  ECONOMIC CHANGE                                         226

VIII. SOCIAL CHANGE                                           250

IX.   SOCIAL UNREST AND BOLSHEVISM                            273

      CONCLUSION                                              300

      INDEX                                                   301

                               MAP

      THE WORLD OF ISLAM                       at end of volume

THE NEW WORLD OF ISLAM

    "Das Alte stürzt, es ändert sich die Zeit,
    Und neues Leben blüht aus den Ruinen."

                    SCHILLER, Wilhelm Tell.

INTRODUCTION

THE DECLINE AND FALL OF THE OLD ISLAMIC WORLD

The rise of Islam is perhaps the most amazing event in human history. Springing from a land
and a people alike previously negligible, Islam spread within a century over half the earth,
shattering great empires, overthrowing long-established religions, remoulding the souls of
races, and building up a whole new world--the world of Islam.

The closer we examine this development the more extraordinary does it appear. The other great
religions won their way slowly, by painful struggle, and finally triumphed with the aid of
powerful monarchs converted to the new faith. Christianity had its Constantine, Buddhism its
Asoka, and Zoroastrianism its Cyrus, each lending to his chosen cult the mighty force of secular
authority. Not so Islam. Arising in a desert land sparsely inhabited by a nomad race previously
undistinguished in human annals, Islam sallied forth on its great adventure with the slenderest
human backing and against the heaviest material odds. Yet Islam triumphed with seemingly miraculous
ease, and a couple of generations saw the Fiery Crescent borne victorious from the Pyrenees
to the Himalayas and from the deserts of Central Asia to the deserts of Central Africa.

This amazing success was due to a number of contributing factors, chief among them being the
character of the Arab race, the nature of Mohammed's teaching, and the general state of the
contemporary Eastern world. Undistinguished though the Arabs had hitherto been, they were a
people of remarkable potentialities, which were at that moment patently seeking self-realization.
For several generations before Mohammed, Arabia had been astir with exuberant vitality. The
Arabs had outgrown their ancestral paganism and were instinctively yearning for better things.
Athwart this seething ferment of mind and spirit Islam rang like a trumpet-call. Mohammed,
an Arab of the Arabs, was the very incarnation of the soul of his race. Preaching a simple,
austere monotheism, free from priestcraft or elaborate doctrinal trappings, he tapped the well-springs
of religious zeal always present in the Semitic heart. Forgetting the chronic rivalries and
blood-feuds which had consumed their energies in internecine strife, and welded into a glowing
unity by the fire of their new-found faith, the Arabs poured forth from their deserts to conquer
the earth for Allah, the One True God.

Thus Islam, like the resistless breath of the sirocco, the desert wind, swept out of Arabia
and encountered--a spiritual vacuum. Those neighbouring Byzantine and Persian Empires, so imposing
to the casual eye, were mere dried husks, devoid of real vitality. Their religions were a mockery
and a sham. Persia's ancestral cult of Zoroaster had degenerated into "Magism"--a pompous priestcraft,
tyrannical and persecuting, hated and secretly despised. As for Eastern Christianity, bedizened
with the gewgaws of paganism and bedevilled by the maddening theological speculations of the
decadent Greek mind, it had become a repellent caricature of the teachings of Christ. Both
Magism and Byzantine Christendom were riven by great heresies which engendered savage persecutions
and furious hates. Furthermore, both the Byzantine and Persian Empires were harsh despotisms
which crushed their subjects to the dust and killed out all love of country or loyalty to the
state. Lastly, the two empires had just fought a terrible war from which they had emerged mutually
bled white and utterly exhausted.

Such was the world compelled to face the lava-flood of Islam. The result was inevitable. Once
the disciplined strength of the East Roman legions and the Persian cuirassiers had broken before
the fiery onslaught of the fanatic sons of the desert, it was all over. There was no patriotic
resistance. The down-trodden populations passively accepted new masters, while the numerous
heretics actually welcomed the overthrow of persecuting co-religionists whom they hated far
worse than their alien conquerors. In a short time most of the subject peoples accepted the
new faith, so refreshingly simple compared with their own degenerate cults. The Arabs, in their
turn, knew how to consolidate their rule. They were no bloodthirsty savages, bent solely on
loot and destruction. On the contrary, they were an innately gifted race, eager to learn and
appreciative of the cultural gifts which older civilizations had to bestow. Intermarrying freely
and professing a common belief, conquerors and conquered rapidly fused, and from this fusion
arose a new civilization--the Saracenic civilization, in which the ancient cultures of Greece,
Rome, and Persia were revitalized by Arab vigour and synthesized by the Arab genius and the
Islamic spirit. For the first three centuries of its existence (circ. A.D. 650-1000) the realm
of Islam was the most civilized and progressive portion of the world. Studded with splendid
cities, gracious mosques, and quiet universities where the wisdom of the ancient world was
preserved and appreciated, the Moslem East offered a striking contrast to the Christian West,
then sunk in the night of the Dark Ages.

However, by the tenth century the Saracenic civilization began to display unmistakable symptoms
of decline. This decline was at first gradual. Down to the terrible disasters of the thirteenth
century it still displayed vigour and remained ahead of the Christian West. Still, by the year
A.D. 1000 its golden age was over. For this there were several reasons. In the first place,
that inveterate spirit of faction which has always been the bane of the Arab race soon reappeared
once more. Rival clans strove for the headship of Islam, and their quarrels degenerated into
bloody civil wars. In this fratricidal strife the fervour of the first days cooled, and saintly
men like Abu Bekr and Omar, Islam's first standard-bearers, gave place to worldly minded leaders
who regarded their position of "Khalifa"[1] as a means to despotic power and self-glorification.
The seat of government was moved to Damascus in Syria, and afterward to Bagdad in Mesopotamia.
The reason for this was obvious. In Mecca despotism was impossible. The fierce, free-born Arabs
of the desert would tolerate no master, and their innate democracy had been sanctioned by the
Prophet, who had explicitly declared that all Believers were brothers. The Meccan caliphate
was a theocratic democracy. Abu Bekr and Omar were elected by the people, and held themselves
responsible to public opinion, subject to the divine law as revealed by Mohammed in the Koran.

But in Damascus, and still more in Bagdad, things were different. There the pure-blooded Arabs
were only a handful among swarms of Syrian and Persian converts and "Neo-Arab" mixed-bloods.
These people were filled with traditions of despotism and were quite ready to yield the caliphs
obsequious obedience. The caliphs, in their turn, leaned more and more upon these complaisant
subjects, drawing from their ranks courtiers, officials, and ultimately soldiers. Shocked and
angered, the proud Arabs gradually returned to the desert, while the government fell into the
well-worn ruts of traditional Oriental despotism. When the caliphate was moved to Bagdad after
the founding of the Abbaside dynasty (A.D. 750), Persian influence became preponderant. The
famous Caliph Haroun-al-Rashid, the hero of the Arabian Nights, was a typical Persian monarch,
a true successor of Xerxes and Chosroes, and as different from Abu Bekr or Omar as it is possible
to conceive. And, in Bagdad, as elsewhere, despotic power was fatal to its possessors. Under
its blight the "successors" of Mohammed became capricious tyrants or degenerate harem puppets,
whose nerveless hands were wholly incapable of guiding the great Moslem Empire.

The empire, in fact, gradually went to pieces. Shaken by the civil wars, bereft of strong leaders,
and deprived of the invigorating amalgam of the unspoiled desert Arabs, political unity could
not endure. Everywhere there occurred revivals of suppressed racial or particularist tendencies.
The very rapidity of Islam's expansion turned against it, now that the well-springs of that
expansion were dried up. Islam had made millions of converts, of many sects and races, but
it had digested them very imperfectly. Mohammed had really converted the Arabs, because he
merely voiced ideas which were obscurely germinating in Arab minds and appealed to impulses
innate in the Arab blood. When, however, Islam was accepted by non-Arab peoples, they instinctively
interpreted the Prophet's message according to their particular racial tendencies and cultural
backgrounds, the result being that primitive Islam was distorted or perverted. The most extreme
example of this was in Persia, where the austere monotheism of Mohammed was transmuted into
the elaborate mystical cult known as Shiism, which presently cut the Persians off from full
communion with the orthodox Moslem world. The same transmutive tendency appears, in lesser
degree, in the saint-worship of the North African Berbers and in the pantheism of the Hindu
Moslems--both developments which Mohammed would have unquestionably execrated.

These doctrinal fissures in Islam were paralleled by the disruption of political unity. The
first formal split occurred after the accession of the Abbasides. A member of the deposed Ommeyyad
family fled to Spain, where he set up a rival caliphate at Cordova, recognized as lawful not
only by the Spanish Moslems, but by the Berbers of North Africa. Later on another caliphate
was set up in Egypt--the Fatimite caliphate, resting its title on descent from Mohammed's daughter
Fatima. As for the Abbaside caliphs of Bagdad, they gradually declined in power, until they
became mere puppets in the hands of a new racial element, the Turks.

Before describing that shift of power from Neo-Arab to Turkish hands which was so momentous
for the history of the Islamic world, let us first consider the decline in cultural and intellectual
vigour that set in concurrently with the disruption of political and religious unity during
the later stages of the Neo-Arab period.

The Arabs of Mohammed's day were a fresh, unspoiled people in the full flush of pristine vigour,
eager for adventure and inspired by a high ideal. They had their full share of Semitic fanaticism,
but, though fanatical, they were not bigoted, that is to say, they possessed, not closed, but
open minds. They held firmly to the tenets of their religion, but this religion was extremely
simple. The core of Mohammed's teaching was theism plus certain practices. A strict belief
in the unity of God, an equally strict belief in the divine mission[2] of Mohammed as set forth
in the Koran, and certain clearly defined duties--prayer, ablutions, fasting, almsgiving, and
pilgrimage--these, and these alone, constituted the Islam of the Arab conquerors of the Eastern
world.

So simple a theology could not seriously fetter the Arab mind, alert, curious, eager to learn,
and ready to adjust itself to conditions ampler and more complex than those prevailing in the
parched environment of the desert. Now, not only did the Arabs relish the material advantages
and luxuries of the more developed societies which they had conquered; they also appreciated
the art, literature, science, and ideas of the older civilizations. The effect of these novel
stimuli was the remarkable cultural and intellectual flowering which is the glory of Saracenic
civilization. For a time thought was relatively free and produced a wealth of original ideas
and daring speculations. These were the work not only of Arabs but also of subject Christians,
Jews, and Persians, many of them being heretics previously depressed under the iron bands of
persecuting Byzantine orthodoxy and Magism.

Gradually, however, this enlightened era passed away. Reactionary forces appeared and gained
in strength. The liberals, who are usually known under the general title of "Motazelites,"
not only clung to the doctrinal simplicity of primitive Islam, but also contended that the
test of all things should be reason. On the other hand, the conservative schools of thought
asserted that the test should be precedent and authority. These men, many of them converted
Christians imbued with the traditions of Byzantine orthodoxy, undertook an immense work of
Koranic exegesis, combined with an equally elaborate codification and interpretation of the
reputed sayings or "traditions" of Mohammed, as handed down by his immediate disciples and
followers. As the result of these labours, there gradually arose a Moslem theology and scholastic
philosophy as rigid, elaborate, and dogmatic as that of the mediæval Christian West.

Naturally, the struggle between the fundamentally opposed tendencies of traditionalism and
rationalism was long and bitter. Yet the ultimate outcome was almost a foregone conclusion.
Everything conspired to favour the triumph of dogma over reason. The whole historic tradition
of the East (a tradition largely induced by racial and climatic factors[3]) was toward absolutism.
This tradition had been interrupted by the inrush of the wild libertarianism of the desert.
But the older tendency presently reasserted itself, stimulated as it was by the political transformation
of the caliphate from theocratic, democracy to despotism.

This triumph of absolutism in the field of government in fact assured its eventual triumph
in all other fields as well. For, in the long run, despotism can no more tolerate liberty of
thought than it can liberty of action. Some of the Damascus caliphs, to be sure, toyed with
Motazelism, the Ommeyyads being mainly secular-minded men to whom freethinking was intellectually
attractive. But presently the caliphs became aware of liberalism's political implications.
The Motazelites did not confine themselves to the realm of pure philosophic speculation. They
also trespassed on more dangerous ground. Motazelite voices were heard recalling the democratic
days of the Meccan caliphate, when the Commander of the Faithful, instead of being an hereditary
monarch, was elected by the people and responsible to public opinion. Some bold spirits even
entered into relations with the fierce fanatic sects of inner Arabia, like the Kharijites,
who, upholding the old desert freedom, refused to recognize the caliphate and proclaimed theories
of advanced republicanism.

The upshot was that the caliphs turned more and more toward the conservative theologians as
against the liberals, just as they favoured the monarchist Neo-Arabs in preference to the intractable
pure-blooded Arabs of the desert. Under the Abbasides the government came out frankly for religious
absolutism. Standards of dogmatic orthodoxy were established, Motazelites were persecuted and
put to death, and by the twelfth century A.D. the last vestiges of Saracenic liberalism were
extirpated. The canons of Moslem thought were fixed. All creative activity ceased. The very
memory of the great Motazelite doctors faded away. The Moslem mind was closed, not to be re-opened
until our own day.

By the beginning of the eleventh century the decline of Saracenic civilization had become so
pronounced that change was clearly in the air. Having lost their early vigour, the Neo-Arabs
were to see their political power pass into other hands. These political heirs of the Neo-Arabs
were the Turks. The Turks were a western branch of that congeries of nomadic tribes which,
from time immemorial, have roamed over the limitless steppes of eastern and central Asia, and
which are known collectively under the titles of "Uralo-Altaic" or "Turanian" peoples. The
Arabs had been in contact with the Turkish nomads ever since the Islamic conquest of Persia,
when the Moslem generals found the Turks beating restlessly against Persia's north-eastern
frontiers. In the caliphate's palmy days the Turks were not feared. In fact, they were presently
found to be very useful. A dull-witted folk with few ideas, the Turks could do two things superlatively
well--obey orders and fight like devils. In other words, they made ideal mercenary soldiers.
The caliphs were delighted, and enlisted ever larger numbers of them for their armies and their
body-guards.

This was all very well while the caliphate was strong, but when it grew weak the situation
altered. Rising everywhere to positions of authority, the Turkish mercenaries began to act
like masters. Opening the eastern frontiers, they let in fresh swarms of their countrymen,
who now came, not as individuals, but in tribes or "hordes" under their hereditary chiefs,
wandering about at their own sweet will, settling where they pleased, and despoiling or evicting
the local inhabitants.

The Turks soon renounced their ancestral paganism for Islam, but Islam made little change in
their natures. In judging these Turkish newcomers we must not consider them the same as the
present-day Ottoman Turks of Constantinople and Asia Minor. The modern Osmanli are so saturated
with European and Near Eastern blood, and have been so leavened by Western and Saracenic ideas,
they that are a very different people from their remote immigrant ancestors. Yet, even as it
is, the modern Osmanli display enough of those unlovely Turanian traits which characterize
the unmodified Turks of central Asia, often called "Turkomans," to distinguish them from their
Ottoman kinsfolk to the west.

Now, what was the primitive Turkish nature? First and foremost, it was that of the professional
soldier. Discipline was the Turk's watchword. No originality of thought, and but little curiosity.
Few ideas ever penetrated the Turk's slow mind, and the few that did penetrate were received
as military orders, to be obeyed without question and adhered to without reflection. Such was
the being who took over the leadership of Islam from the Saracen's failing grasp.

No greater misfortune could have occurred both for Islam and for the world at large. For Islam
it meant the rule of dull-witted bigots under which enlightened progress was impossible. Of
course Islam did gain a great accession of warlike strength, but this new power was so wantonly
misused as to bring down disastrous repercussions upon Islam itself. The first notable exploits
of the immigrant Turkish hordes were their conquest of Asia Minor and their capture of Jerusalem,
both events taking place toward the close of the eleventh century[4]. Up to this time Asia
Minor had remained part of the Christian world. The original Arab flood of the seventh century,
after overrunning Syria, had been stopped by the barrier of the Taurus Mountains; the Byzantine
Empire had pulled itself together; and thenceforth, despite border bickerings, the Byzantine-Saracen
frontier had remained substantially unaltered. Now, however, the Turks broke the Byzantine
barrier, overran Asia Minor, and threatened even Constantinople, the eastern bulwark of Christendom.
As for Jerusalem, it had, of course, been in Moslem hands since the Arab conquest of A.D. 637,
but the caliph Omar had carefully respected the Christian "Holy Places," and his successors
had neither persecuted the local Christians nor maltreated the numerous pilgrims who flocked
perennially to Jerusalem from every part of the Christian world. But the Turks changed all
this. Avid for loot, and filled with bigoted hatred of the "Misbelievers," they sacked the
holy places, persecuted the Christians, and rendered pilgrimage impossible.

The effect of these twin disasters upon Christendom, occurring as they did almost simultaneously,
was tremendous. The Christian West, then at the height of its religious fervour, quivered with
mingled fear and wrath. Myriads of zealots, like Peter the Hermit, roused all Europe to frenzy.
Fanaticism begat fanaticism, and the Christian West poured upon the Moslem East vast hosts
of warriors in those extraordinary expeditions, the Crusades.

The Turkish conquest of Islam and its counterblast, the Crusades, were an immense misfortune
for the world. They permanently worsened the relations between East and West. In the year A.D.
1000 Christian-Moslem relations were fairly good, and showed every prospect of becoming better.
The hatreds engendered by Islam's first irruption were dying away. The frontiers of Islam and
Christendom had become apparently fixed, and neither side showed much desire to encroach upon
the other. The only serious debatable ground was Spain, where Moslem and Christian were continually
at hand-grips; but, after all, Spain was mutually regarded as a frontier episode. Between Islam
and Christendom, as a whole, intercourse was becoming steadily more friendly and more frequent.
This friendly intercourse, if continued, might ultimately have produced momentous results for
human progress. The Moslem world was at that time still well ahead of western Europe in knowledge
and culture, but Saracenic civilization was ossifying, whereas the Christian West, despite
its ignorance, rudeness, and barbarism, was bursting with lusty life and patently aspiring
to better things. Had the nascent amity of East and West in the eleventh century continued
to develop, both would have greatly profited. In the West the influence of Saracenic culture,
containing, as it did, the ancient learning of Greece and Rome, might have awakened our Renaissance
much earlier, while in the East the influence of the mediæval West, with its abounding vigour,
might have saved Moslem civilization from the creeping paralysis which was overtaking it.

But it was not to be. In Islam the refined, easygoing Saracen gave place to the bigoted, brutal
Turk. Islam became once more aggressive--not, as in its early days, for an ideal, but for sheer
blood-lust, plunder, and destruction. Henceforth it was war to the knife between the only possible
civilization and the most brutal and hopeless barbarism. Furthermore, this war was destined
to last for centuries. The Crusades were merely Western counter-attacks against a Turkish assault
on Christendom which continued for six hundred years and was definitely broken only under the
walls of Vienna in 1683. Naturally, from these centuries of unrelenting strife furious hatreds
and fanaticisms were engendered which still envenom the relations of Islam and Christendom.
The atrocities of Mustapha Kemal's Turkish "Nationalists" and the atrocities of the Greek troops
in Asia Minor, of which we read in our morning papers, are in no small degree a "carrying on"
of the mutual atrocities of Turks and Crusaders in Palestine eight hundred years ago.

With the details of those old wars between Turks and Christians this book has no direct concern.
The wars themselves should simply be noted as a chronic barrier between East and West. As for
the Moslem East, with its declining Saracenic civilization bowed beneath the brutal Turkish
yoke, it was presently exposed to even more terrible misfortunes. These misfortunes were also
of Turanian origin. Toward the close of the twelfth century the eastern branches of the Turanian
race were welded into a temporary unity by the genius of a mighty chieftain named Jenghiz Khan.
Taking the sinister title of "The Inflexible Emperor," this arch-savage started out to loot
the world. He first overran northern China, which he hideously ravaged, then turned his devastating
course toward the west. Such was the rise of the terrible "Mongols," whose name still stinks
in the nostrils of civilized mankind. Carrying with them skilled Chinese engineers using gunpowder
for the reduction of fortified cities, Jenghiz Khan and his mounted hosts proved everywhere
irresistible. The Mongols were the most appalling barbarians whom the world has ever seen.
Their object was not conquest for settlement, not even loot, but in great part a sheer satanic
lust for blood and destruction. They revelled in butchering whole populations, destroying cities,
laying waste countrysides--and then passing on to fresh fields.

Jenghiz Khan died after a few years of his westward progress, but his successors continued
his work with unabated zeal. Both Christendom and Islam were smitten by the Mongol scourge.
All eastern Europe was ravaged and re-barbarized, the Russians showing ugly traces of the Mongol
imprint to this day. But the woes of Christendom were as nothing to the woes of Islam. The
Mongols never penetrated beyond Poland, and western Europe, the seat of Western civilization,
was left unscathed. Not so Islam. Pouring down from the north-east, the Mongol hosts whirled
like a cyclone over the Moslem world from India to Egypt, pillaging, murdering, and destroying.
The nascent civilization of mediæval Persia, just struggling into the light beneath the incubus
of Turkish harryings, was stamped flat under the Mongol hoofs, and the Mongols then proceeded
to deal with the Moslem culture-centre--Bagdad. Bagdad had declined considerably from the gorgeous
days of Haroun-al-Rashid, with its legendary million souls. However, it was still a great city,
the seat of the caliphate and the unquestioned centre of Saracenic civilization. The Mongols
stormed it (A.D. 1258), butchered its entire population, and literally wiped Bagdad off the
face of the earth. And even this was not the worst. Bagdad was the capital of Mesopotamia.
This "Land between the Rivers" had, in the very dawn of history, been reclaimed from swamp
and desert by the patient labours of half-forgotten peoples who, with infinite toil, built
up a marvellous system of irrigation that made Mesopotamia the perennial garden and granary
of the world. Ages had passed and Mesopotamia had known many masters, but all these conquerors
had respected, even cherished, the irrigation works which were the source of all prosperity.
These works the Mongols wantonly, methodically destroyed. The oldest civilization in the world,
the cradle of human culture, was hopelessly ruined; at least eight thousand years of continuous
human effort went for naught, and Mesopotamia became the noisome land it still remains to-day,
parched during the droughts of low water, soaked to fever-stricken marsh in the season of river-floods,
tenanted only by a few mongrel fellahs inhabiting wretched mud villages, and cowed by nomad
Bedouin browsing their flocks on the sites of ancient fields.

The destruction of Bagdad was a fatal blow to Saracenic civilization, especially in the East.
And even before that dreadful disaster it had received a terrible blow in the West. Traversing
North Africa in its early days, Islam had taken firm root in Spain, and had so flourished there
that Spanish Moslem culture was fully abreast of that in the Moslem East. The capital of Spanish
Islam was Cordova, the seat of the Western caliphate, a mighty city, perhaps more wonderful
than Bagdad itself. For centuries Spanish Islam lived secure, confining the Christians to the
mountainous regions of the north. As Saracen vigour declined, however, the Christians pressed
the Moslems southward. In 1213 Spanish Islam was hopelessly broken at the tremendous battle
of Las Navas de Tolosa. Thenceforth, for the victorious Christians it was a case of picking
up the pieces. Cordova itself soon fell, and with it the glory of Spanish Islam, for the fanatical
Christian Spaniards extirpated Saracenic civilization as effectually as the pagan Mongols were
at that time doing. To be sure, a remnant of the Spanish Moslems held their ground at Granada,
in the extreme south, until the year Columbus discovered America, but this was merely an episode.
The Saracen civilization of the West was virtually destroyed.

Meanwhile the Moslem East continued to bleed under the Mongol scourge. Wave after wave of Mongol
raiders passed over the land, the last notable invasion being that headed by the famous (or
rather infamous) Tamerlane, early in the fifteenth century. By this time the western Mongols
had accepted Islam, but that made little difference in their conduct. To show that Tamerlane
was a true scion of his ancestor Jenghiz Khan, it may be remarked that his foible was pyramids
of human skulls, his prize effort being one of 70,000 erected after the storming of the Persian
city of Ispahan. After the cessation of the Mongol incursions, the ravaged and depopulated
Moslem East fell under the sway of the Ottoman Turks.

The Ottoman Turks, or "Osmanli," were originally merely one of the many Turkish hordes which
entered Asia Minor after the downfall of Byzantine rule. They owed their greatness mainly to
a long line of able sultans, who gradually absorbed the neighbouring Turkish tribes and used
this consolidated strength for ambitious conquests both to east and west. In 1453 the Osmanli
extinguished the old Byzantine Empire by taking Constantinople, and within a century thereafter
they had conquered the Moslem East from Persia to Morocco, had subjugated the whole Balkan
Peninsula, and had advanced through Hungary to the walls of Vienna. Unlike their Mongol cousins,
the Ottoman Turks built up a durable empire. It was a barbarous sort of empire, for the Turks
understood very little about culture. The only things they could appreciate were military improvements.
These, however, they thoroughly appreciated and kept fully abreast of the times. In their palmy
days the Turks had the best artillery and the steadiest infantry in the world, and were the
terror of Europe.

Meantime Europe was awakening to true progress and higher civilization. While the Moslem East
was sinking under Mongol harryings and Turkish militarism, the Christian West was thrilling
to the Renaissance and the discoveries of America and the water route to India. The effect
of these discoveries simply cannot be over-estimated. When Columbus and Vasco da Gama made
their memorable voyages at the end of the fifteenth century, Western civilization was pent
up closely within the restricted bounds of west-central Europe, and was waging a defensive
and none-too-hopeful struggle with the forces of Turanian barbarism. Russia lay under the heel
of the Mongol Tartars, while the Turks, then in the full flush of their martial vigour, were
marching triumphantly up from the south-east and threatening Europe's very heart. So strong
were these Turanian barbarians, with Asia, North Africa, and eastern Europe in their grasp,
that Western civilization was hard put to it to hold its own. Western civilization was, in
fact, fighting with its back to the wall--the wall of a boundless ocean. We can hardly conceive
how our mediæval forefathers viewed the ocean. To them it was a numbing, constricting presence;
the abode of darkness and horror. No wonder mediæval Europe was static, since it faced on ruthless,
aggressive Asia, and backed on nowhere. Then, in the twinkling of an eye, the sea-wall became
a highway, and dead-end Europe became mistress of the ocean--and thereby mistress of the world.

The greatest strategic shift of fortune in all human history had taken place. Instead of fronting
hopelessly on the fiercest of Asiatics, against whom victory by direct attack seemed impossible,
the Europeans could now flank them at will. Furthermore, the balance of resources shifted in
Europe's favour. Whole new worlds were unmasked whence Europe could draw limitless wealth to
quicken its home life and initiate a progress that would soon place it immeasurably above its
once-dreaded Asiatic assailants. What were the resources of the stagnant Moslem East compared
with those of the Americas and the Indies? So Western civilization, quickened, energized, progressed
with giant strides, shook off its mediæval fetters, grasped the talisman of science, and strode
into the light of modern times.

Yet all this left Islam unmoved. Wrapping itself in the tatters of Saracenic civilization,
the Moslem East continued to fall behind. Even its military power presently vanished, for the
Turk sank into lethargy and ceased to cultivate the art of war. For a time the West, busied
with internal conflicts, hesitated to attack the East, so great was the prestige of the Ottoman
name. But the crushing defeat of the Turks in their rash attack upon Vienna in 1683 showed
the West that the Ottoman Empire was far gone in decrepitude. Thenceforth, the empire was harried
mercilessly by Western assaults and was saved from collapse only by the mutual jealousies of
Western Powers, quarrelling over the Turkish spoils.

However, not until the nineteenth century did the Moslem world, as a whole, feel the weight
of Western attack. Throughout the eighteenth century the West assailed the ends of the Moslem
battle-line in eastern Europe and the Indies, but the bulk of Islam, from Morocco to Central
Asia, remained almost immune. The Moslem world failed to profit by this respite. Plunged in
lethargy, contemptuous of the European "Misbelievers," and accepting defeats as the inscrutable
will of Allah, Islam continued to live its old life, neither knowing nor caring to know anything
about Western ideas or Western progress.

Such was the decrepit Moslem world which faced nineteenth-century Europe, energized by the
Industrial Revolution, armed as never before by modern science and invention which had unlocked
nature's secrets and placed hitherto-undreamed-of weapons in its aggressive hands. The result
was a foregone conclusion. One by one, the decrepit Moslem states fell before the Western attack,
and the whole Islamic world was rapidly partitioned among the European Powers. England took
India and Egypt, Russia crossed the Caucasus and mastered Central Asia, France conquered North
Africa, while other European nations grasped minor portions of the Moslem heritage. The Great
War witnessed the final stage in this process of subjugation. By the terms of the treaties
which marked its close, Turkey was extinguished and not a single Mohammedan state retained
genuine independence. The subjection of the Moslem world was complete--on paper.

On paper! For, in its very hour of apparent triumph, Western domination was challenged as never
before. During those hundred years of Western conquest a mighty internal change had been coming
over the Moslem world. The swelling tide of Western aggression had at last moved the "immovable"
East. At last Islam became conscious of its decrepitude, and with that consciousness a vast
ferment, obscure yet profound, began to leaven the 250,000,000 followers of the Prophet from
Morocco to China and from Turkestan to the Congo. The first spark was fittingly struck in the
Arabian desert, the cradle of Islam. Here at the opening of the nineteenth century, arose the
Wahabi movement for the reform of Islam, which presently kindled the far-flung "Mohammedan
Revival," which in its turn begat the movement known as "Pan-Islamism." Furthermore, athwart
these essentially internal movements there came pouring a flood of external stimuli from the
West--ideas such as parliamentary government, nationalism, scientific education, industrialism,
and even ultra-modern concepts like feminism, socialism, Bolshevism. Stirred by the interaction
of all these novel forces and spurred by the ceaseless pressure of European aggression, the
Moslem world roused more and more to life and action. The Great War was a shock of terrific
potency, and to-day Islam is seething with mighty forces fashioning a new Moslem world. What
are those forces moulding the Islam of the future? To their analysis and appraisal the body
of this book is devoted.

FOOTNOTES:

[1] I. e. "Successor"; anglicized into the word "Caliph."

[2] To be carefully distinguished from divinity. Mohammed not only did not make any pretensions
to divinity, but specifically disclaimed any such attributes. He regarded himself as the last
of a series of divinely inspired prophets, beginning with Adam and extending through Moses
and Jesus to himself, the mouthpiece of God's last and most perfect revelation.

[3] The influence of environment and heredity on human evolution in general and on the history
of the East in particular, though of great importance, cannot be treated in a summary such
as this. The influence of climatic and other environmental factors has been ably treated by
Prof. Ellsworth Huntington in his various works, such as The Pulse of Asia (Boston, 1907);
Civilization and Climate (Yale Univ. Press, 1915), and World-Power and Evolution (Yale Univ.
Press, 1919). See also Chap. III. in Arminius Vambéry--Der Islam im neunzehnten Jahrhundert.
Eine culturgeschichtliche Studie (Leipzig, 1875). For a summary of racial influences in Eastern
history, see Madison Grant--The Passing of the Great Race (N. Y., 1916).

[4] The Turkish overrunning of Asia Minor took place after the destruction of the Byzantine
army in the great battle of Manzikert, A.D. 1071. The Turks captured Jerusalem in 1076.

CHAPTER I

THE MOHAMMEDAN REVIVAL

By the eighteenth century the Moslem world had sunk to the lowest depth of its decrepitude.
Nowhere were there any signs of healthy vigour, everywhere were stagnation and decay. Manners
and morals were alike execrable. The last vestiges of Saracenic culture had vanished in a barbarous
luxury of the few and an equally barbarous degradation of the multitude. Learning was virtually
dead, the few universities which survived fallen into dreary decay and languishing in poverty
and neglect. Government had become despotism tempered by anarchy and assassination. Here and
there a major despot like the Sultan of Turkey or the Indian "Great Mogul" maintained some
semblance of state authority, albeit provincial pashas were for ever striving to erect independent
governments based, like their masters', on tyranny and extortion. The pashas, in turn, strove
ceaselessly against unruly local chiefs and swarms of brigands who infested the countryside.
Beneath this sinister hierarchy groaned the people, robbed, bullied, and ground into the dust.
Peasant and townsman had alike lost all incentive to labour or initiative, and both agriculture
and trade had fallen to the lowest level compatible with bare survival.

As for religion, it was as decadent as everything else. The austere monotheism of Mohammed
had become overlaid with a rank growth of superstition and puerile mysticism. The mosques stood
unfrequented and ruinous, deserted by the ignorant multitude, which, decked out in amulets,
charms, and rosaries, listened to squalid fakirs or ecstatic dervishes, and went on pilgrimages
to the tombs of "holy men," worshipped as saints and "intercessors" with that Allah who had
become too remote a being for the direct devotion of these benighted souls. As for the moral
precepts of the Koran, they were ignored or defied. Wine-drinking and opium-eating were well-nigh
universal, prostitution was rampant, and the most degrading vices flaunted naked and unashamed.
Even the holy cities, Mecca and Medina, were sink-holes of iniquity, while the "Hajj," or pilgrimage
ordained by the Prophet, had become a scandal through its abuses. In fine: the life had apparently
gone out of Islam, leaving naught but a dry husk of soulless ritual and degrading superstition
behind. Could Mohammed have returned to earth, he would unquestionably have anathematized his
followers as apostates and idolaters.

Yet, in this darkest hour, a voice came crying out of the vast Arabian desert, the cradle of
Islam, calling the faithful back to the true path. This puritan reformer, the famous Abd-el-Wahab,
kindled a fire which presently spread to the remotest corners of the Moslem world, purging
Islam of its sloth and reviving the fervour of olden days. The great Mohammedan Revival had begun.

Mahommed ibn Abd-el-Wahab was born about the year A.D. 1700 in the heart of the Arabian desert,
the region known as the Nejd. The Nejd was the one clean spot in the decadent Moslem world.
We have already seen how, with the transformation of the caliphate from a theocratic democracy
to an Oriental despotism, the free-spirited Arabs had returned scornfully to their deserts.
Here they had maintained their wild freedom. Neither caliph nor sultan dared venture far into
those vast solitudes of burning sand and choking thirst, where the rash invader was lured to
sudden death in a whirl of stabbing spears. The Arabs recognized no master, wandering at will
with their flocks and camels, or settled here and there in green oases hidden in the desert's
heart. And in the desert they retained their primitive political and religious virtues. The
nomad Bedouin lived under the sway of patriarchal "sheiks"; the settled dwellers in the oases
usually acknowledged the authority of some leading family. But these rulers possessed the slenderest
authority, narrowly circumscribed by well-established custom and a jealous public opinion which
they transgressed at their peril. The Turks, to be sure, had managed to acquire a precarious
authority over the holy cities and the Red Sea littoral, but the Nejd, the vast interior, was
free. And, in religion, as in politics, the desert Arabs kept the faith of their fathers. Scornfully
rejecting the corruptions of decadent Islam, they held fast to the simple theology of primitive
Islam, so congenial to their Arab natures.

Into this atmosphere of an older and better age, Abd-el-Wahab was born. Displaying from the
first a studious and religious bent, he soon acquired a reputation for learning and sanctity.
Making the Meccan pilgrimage while still a young man, he studied at Medina and travelled as
far as Persia, returning ultimately to the Nejd. He returned burning with holy wrath at what
he had seen, and determined to preach a puritan reformation. For years he wandered up and down
Arabia, and at last he converted Mahommed, head of the great clan of Saud, the most powerful
chieftain in all the Nejd. This gave Abd-el-Wahab both moral prestige and material strength,
and he made the most of his opportunities. Gradually, the desert Arabs were welded into a politico-religious
unity like that effected by the Prophet. Abd-el-Wahab was, in truth, a faithful counterpart
of the first caliphs, Abu Bekr and Omar. When he died in 1787 his disciple, Saud, proved a
worthy successor. The new Wahabi state was a close counterpart of the Meccan caliphate. Though
possessing great military power, Saud always considered himself responsible to public opinion
and never encroached upon the legitimate freedom of his subjects. Government, though stern,
was able and just. The Wahabi judges were competent and honest. Robbery, became almost unknown,
so well was the public peace maintained. Education was sedulously fostered. Every oasis had
its school, while teachers were sent to the Bedouin tribes.

Having consolidated the Nejd, Saud was now ready to undertake the greater task of subduing
and purifying the Moslem world. His first objective was of course the holy cities. This objective
was attained in the opening years of the nineteenth century. Nothing could stand against the
rush of the Wahabi hosts burning with fanatic hatred against the Turks, who were loathed both
as apostate Moslems and as usurpers of that supremacy in Islam which all Arabs believed should
rest in Arab hands. When Saud died in 1814 he was preparing to invade Syria. It looked for
a moment as though the Wahabis were to sweep the East and puritanize all Islam at a blow.

But it was not to be. Unable to stem the Wahabi flood, the Sultan of Turkey called on his powerful
vassal, the famous Mehemet Ali. This able Albanian adventurer had by that time made himself
master of Egypt. Frankly recognizing the superiority of the West, he had called in numerous
European officers who rapidly fashioned a formidable army, composed largely of hard-fighting
Albanian highlanders, and disciplined and equipped after European models. Mehemet Ali gladly
answered the Sultan's summons, and it soon became clear that even Wahabi fanaticism was no
match for European muskets and artillery handled by seasoned veterans. In a short time the
holy cities were recaptured and the Wahabis were driven back into the desert. The nascent Wahabi
empire had vanished like a mirage. Wahabism's political rôle was ended.[5]

However, Wahabism's spiritual rôle had only just begun. The Nejd remained a focus of puritan
zeal whence the new spirit radiated in all directions. Even in the holy cities Wahabism continued
to set the religious tone, and the numberless "Hajjis," or pilgrims, who came annually from
every part of the Moslem world returned to their homes zealous reformers. Soon the Wahabi leaven
began to produce profound disturbances in the most distant quarters. For example, in northern
India a Wahabi fanatic, Seyid Ahmed,[6] so roused the Punjabi Mohammedans that he actually
built up a theocratic state, and only his chance death prevented a possible Wahabi conquest
of northern India. This state was shattered by the Sikhs, about 1830, but when the English
conquered the country they had infinite trouble with the smouldering embers of Wahabi feeling,
which, in fact, lived on, contributed to the Indian mutiny, and permanently fanaticized Afghanistan
and the wild tribes of the Indian North-West Frontier.[7] It was during these years that the
famous Seyid Mahommed ben Sennussi came from his Algerian home to Mecca and there imbibed those
Wahabi principles which led to the founding of the great Pan-Islamic fraternity that bears
his name. Even the Babbist movement in Persia, far removed though it was doctrinally from Wahabi
teaching, was indubitably a secondary reflex of the Wahabi urge.[8] In fact, within a generation,
the strictly Wahabi movement had broadened into the larger development known as the Mohammedan
Revival, and this in turn was developing numerous phases, chief among them being the movement
usually termed Pan-Islamism. That movement, particularly on its political side, I shall treat
in the next chapter. At present let us examine the other aspects of the Mohammedan Revival,
with special reference to its religious and cultural phases.

The Wahabi movement was a strictly puritan reformation. Its aim was the reform of abuses, the
abolition of superstitious practices, and a return to primitive Islam. All later accretions--the
writings and interpretations of the mediæval theologians, ceremonial or mystical innovations,
saint worship, in fact every sort of change, were condemned. The austere monotheism of Mohammed
was preached in all its uncompromising simplicity, and the Koran, literally interpreted, was
taken as the sole guide for human action. This doctrinal simplification was accompanied by
a most rigid code of morals. The prayers, fastings, and other practices enjoined by Mohammed
were scrupulously observed. The most austere manner of living was enforced. Silken clothing,
rich food, wine, opium, tobacco, coffee, and all other indulgences were sternly proscribed.
Even religious architecture was practically tabooed, the Wahabis pulling down the Prophet's
tomb at Medina and demolishing the minarets of mosques as godless innovations. The Wahabis
were thus, despite their moral earnestness, excessively narrow-minded, and it was very fortunate
for Islam that they soon lost their political power and were compelled thenceforth to confine
their efforts to moral teaching.

Many critics of Islam point to the Wahabi movement as a proof that Islam is essentially retrograde
and innately incapable of evolutionary development. These criticisms, however, appear to be
unwarranted. The initial stage of every religious reformation is an uncritical return to the
primitive cult. To the religious reformer the only way of salvation is a denial of all subsequent
innovations, regardless of their character. Our own Protestant Reformation began in just this
way, and Humanists like Erasmus, repelled and disgusted by Protestantism's puritanical narrowness,
could see no good in the movement, declaring that it menaced all true culture and merely replaced
an infallible Pope by an infallible Bible.

As a matter of fact, the puritan beginnings of the Mohammedan Revival presently broadened along
more constructive lines, some of these becoming tinged with undoubted liberalism. The Moslem
reformers of the early nineteenth century had not dug very deeply into their religious past
before they discovered--Motazelism. We have already reviewed the great struggle which had raged
between reason and dogma in Islam's early days, in which dogma had triumphed so completely
that the very memory of Motazelism had faded away. Now, however, those memories were revived,
and the liberal-minded reformers were delighted to find such striking confirmation of their
ideas, both in the writings of the Motazelite doctors and in the sacred texts themselves. The
principle that reason and not blind prescription was to be the test opened the door to the
possibility of all those reforms which they had most at heart. For example, the reformers found
that in the traditional writings Mohammed was reported to have said: "I am no more than a man;
when I order you anything respecting religion, receive it; when I order you about the affairs
of the world, then I am nothing more than man." And, again, as though foreseeing the day when
sweeping changes would be necessary. "Ye are in an age in which, if ye abandon one-tenth of
that which is ordered, ye will be ruined. After this, a time will come when he who shall observe
one-tenth of what is now ordered will be redeemed."[9]

Before discussing the ideas and efforts of the modern Moslem reformers, it might be well to
examine the assertions made by numerous Western critics, that Islam is by its very nature incapable
of reform and progressive adaptation to the expansion of human knowledge. Such is the contention
not only of Christian polemicists,[10] but also of rationalists like Renan and European administrators
of Moslem populations like Lord Cromer. Lord Cromer, in fact, pithily summarizes this critical
attitude in his statement: "Islam cannot be reformed; that is to say, reformed Islam is Islam
no longer; it is something else."[11]

Now these criticisms, coming as they do from close students of Islam often possessing intimate
personal acquaintance with Moslems, deserve respectful consideration. And yet an historical
survey of religions, and especially a survey of the thoughts and accomplishments of Moslem
reformers during the past century, seem to refute these pessimistic charges.

In the first place, it should be remembered that Islam to-day stands just about where Christendom
stood in the fifteenth century, at the beginning of the Reformation. There is the same supremacy
of dogma over reason, the same blind adherence to prescription and authority, the same suspicion
and hostility to freedom of thought or scientific knowledge. There is no doubt that a study
of the Mohammedan sacred texts, particularly of the "sheriat" or canon law, together with a
glance over Moslem history for the last thousand years, reveal an attitude on the whole quite
incompatible with modern progress and civilization. But was not precisely the same thing true
of Christendom at the beginning of the fifteenth century? Compare the sheriat with the Christian
canon law. The spirit is the same. Take, for example, the sheriat's prohibition on the lending
of money at interest; a prohibition which, if obeyed, renders impossible anything like business
or industry in the modern sense. This is the example oftenest cited to prove Islam's innate
incompatibility with modern civilization. But the Christian canon law equally forbade interest,
and enforced that prohibition so strictly, that for centuries the Jews had a monopoly of business
in Europe, while the first Christians who dared to lend money (the Lombards) were regarded
almost as heretics, were universally hated, and were frequently persecuted. Again, take the
matter of Moslem hostility to freedom of thought and scientific investigation. Can Islam show
anything more revolting than that scene in Christian history when, less than three hundred
years ago,[12] the great Galileo was haled before the Papal Inquisition and forced, under threat
of torture, to recant the damnable heresy that the earth went round the sun?

As a matter of fact, Mohammed reverenced knowledge. His own words are eloquent testimony to
that. Here are some of his sayings:

"Seek knowledge, even, if need be, on the borders of China."

"Seek knowledge from the cradle to the grave."

"One word of knowledge is of more value than the reciting of a hundred prayers."

"The ink of sages is more precious than the blood of martyrs."

"One word of wisdom, learned and communicated to a Moslem brother, outweighs the prayers of
a whole year."

"Wise men are the successors of the Prophet."

"God has created nothing better than reason."

"In truth, a man may have prayed, fasted, given alms, made pilgrimage, and all other good works;
nevertheless, he shall be rewarded only in the measure that he has used his common sense."

These citations (and there are others of the same tenor) prove that the modern Moslem reformers
have good scriptural backing for their liberal attitude. Of course I do not imply that the
reform movement in Islam, just because it is liberal and progressive, is thereby ipso facto
assured of success. History reveals too many melancholy instances to the contrary. Indeed,
we have already seen how, in Islam itself, the promising liberal movement of its early days
passed utterly away. What history does show, however, is that when the times favour progress,
religions are adapted to that progress by being reformed and liberalized. No human society
once fairly on the march was ever turned back by a creed. Halted it may be, but if the progressive
urge persists, the doctrinal barrier is either surmounted, undermined, flanked, or swept aside.
Now there is no possibility that the Moslem world will henceforth lack progressive influences.
It is in close contact with Western civilization, and is being increasingly permeated with
Western ideas. Islam cannot break away and isolate itself if it would. Everything therefore
portends its profound modification. Of course critics like Lord Cromer contend that this modified
Islam will be Islam no longer. But why not? If the people continue to call themselves Mohammedans
and continue to draw spiritual sustenance from the message of Mohammed, why should they be
denied the name? Modern Christianity is certainly vastly different from mediæval Christianity,
while among the various Christian churches there exist the widest doctrinal variations. Yet
all who consider themselves Christians are considered Christians by all except bigots out of
step with the times.

Let us now scrutinize the Moslem reformers, judging them, not by texts and chronicles, but
by their words and deeds; since, as one of their number, an Algerian, very pertinently remarks,
"men should be judged, not by the letter of their sacred books, but by what they actually do."[13]

Modern Moslem liberalism, as we have seen, received its first encouragement from the discovery
of the old Motazelite literature of nearly a thousand years before. To be sure, Islam had never
been quite destitute of liberal minds. Even in its darkest days a few voices had been raised
against the prevailing obscurantism. For example, in the sixteenth century the celebrated El-Gharani
had written: "It is not at all impossible that God may hold in reserve for men of the future
perceptions that have not been vouchsafed to the men of the past. Divine munificence never
ceases to pour benefits and enlightenment into the hearts of wise men of every age."[14] These
isolated voices from Islam's Dark Time helped to encourage the modern reformers, and by the
middle of the nineteenth century every Moslem land had its group of forward-looking men. At
first their numbers were, of course, insignificant, and of course they drew down upon themselves
the anathemas of the fanatic Mollahs[15] and the hatred of the ignorant multitude. The first
country where the reformers made their influence definitely felt was in India. Here a group
headed by the famous Sir Syed Ahmed Khan started an important liberal movement, founding associations,
publishing books and newspapers, and establishing the well-known college of Aligarh. Sir Syed
Ahmed is a good type of the early liberal reformers. Conservative in temperament and perfectly
orthodox in his theology, he yet denounced the current decadence of Islam with truly Wahabi
fervour. He also was frankly appreciative of Western ideas and eager to assimilate the many
good things which the West had to offer. As he wrote in 1867: "We must study European scientific
works, even though they are not written by Moslems and though we may find in them things contrary
to the teachings of the Koran. We should imitate the Arabs of olden days, who did not fear
to shake their faith by studying Pythagoras."[16]

This nucleus of Indian Moslem liberals rapidly grew in strength, producing able leaders like
Moulvie Cheragh Ali and Syed Amir Ali, whose scholarly works in faultless English are known
throughout the world.[17] These men called themselves "Neo-Motazelites" and boldly advocated
reforms such as a thorough overhauling of the sheriat and a general modernization of Islam.
Their view-point is well set forth by another of their leading figures, S. Khuda Bukhsh. "Nothing
was more distant from the Prophet's thought," he writes, "than to fetter the mind or to lay
down fixed, immutable, unchanging laws for his followers. The Quran is a book of guidance to
the faithful, and not an obstacle in the path, of their social, moral, legal, and intellectual
progress." He laments Islam's present backwardness, for he continues: "Modern Islam, with its
hierarchy of priesthood, gross fanaticism, appalling ignorance, and superstitious practices
is, indeed, a discredit to the Islam of the Prophet Mohammed." He concludes with the following
liberal confession of faith: "Is Islam hostile to progress? I will emphatically answer this
question in the negative. Islam, stripped of its theology, is a perfectly simple religion.
Its cardinal principle is belief in one God and belief in Mohammed as his apostle. The rest
is mere accretion, superfluity."[18]

Meanwhile, the liberals were making themselves felt in other parts of the Moslem world. In
Turkey liberals actually headed the government during much of the generation between the Crimean
War and the despotism of Abdul Hamid,[19] and Turkish liberal ministers like Reshid Pasha and
Midhat Pasha made earnest though unavailing efforts to liberalize and modernize the Ottoman
Empire. Even the dreadful Hamidian tyranny could not kill Turkish liberalism. It went underground
or into exile, and in 1908 put through the revolution which deposed the tyrant and brought
the "Young Turks" to power. In Egypt liberalism took firm root, represented by men like Sheikh
Mohammed Abdou, Rector of El Azhar University and respected friend of Lord Cromer. Even outlying
fragments of Islam like the Russian Tartars awoke to the new spirit and produced liberal-minded,
forward-looking men.[20]

The liberal reformers, whom I have been describing, of course form the part of evolutionary
progress in Islam. They are in the best sense of the word conservatives, receptive to healthy
change, yet maintaining their hereditary poise. Sincerely religious men, they have faith in
Islam as a living, moral force, and from it they continue to draw their spiritual sustenance.

There are, however, other groups in the Moslem world who have so far succumbed to Western influences
that they have more or less lost touch with both their spiritual and cultural pasts. In all
the more civilized portions of the Moslem world, especially in countries long under European
control like India, Egypt, and Algeria, there are many Moslems, Western educated and Western
culture-veneered, who have drifted into an attitude varying from easygoing religious indifference
to avowed agnosticism. From their minds the old Moslem zeal has entirely departed. The Algerian
Ismael Hamet well describes the attitude of this class of his fellow-countrymen when he writes:
"European scepticism is not without influence upon the Algerian Moslems, who, if they have
kept some attachment for the external forms of their religion, usually ignore the unhealthy
excesses of the religious sentiment. They do not give up their religion, but they no longer
dream of converting all those who do not practise it; they want to hand it on to their children,
but they do not worry about other men's salvation. This is not belief; it is not even free
thought; but it is lukewarmness."[21]

Beyond these tepid latitudinarians are still other groups of a very different character. Here
we find combined the most contradictory sentiments: young men whose brains are seething with
radical Western ideas--atheism, socialism, Bolshevism, and what not. Yet, curiously enough,
these fanatic radicals tend to join hands with the fanatic reactionaries of Islam in a common
hatred of the West. Considering themselves the born leaders (and exploiters) of the ignorant
masses, the radicals hunger for political power and rage against that Western domination which
vetoes their ambitious pretensions. Hence, they are mostly extreme "Nationalists," while they
are also deep in Pan-Islamic reactionary schemes. Indeed, we often witness the strange spectacle
of atheists posing as Moslem fanatics and affecting a truly dervish zeal. Mr. Bukhsh well describes
this type when he writes: "I know a gentleman, a Mohammedan by profession, who owes his success
in life to his faith. Though, outwardly, he conforms to all the precepts of Islam and occasionally
stands up in public as the champion and spokesman of his co-religionists; yet, to my utter
horror, I found that he held opinions about his religion and its founder which even Voltaire
would have rejected with indignation and Gibbon with commiserating contempt."[22]

Later on we shall examine more fully the activities of these gentry in the chapters devoted
to Pan-Islamism and Nationalism. What I desire to emphasize here is their pernicious influence
on the prospects of a genuine Mohammedan reformation as visualized by the true reformers whom
I have described. Their malevolent desire to stir up the fanatic passions of the ignorant masses
and their equally malevolent hatred of everything Western except military improvements are
revealed by outbursts like the following from the pen of a prominent "Young Turk." "Yes, the
Mohammedan religion is in open hostility to all your world of progress. Learn, ye European
observers, that a Christian, whatever his position, by the mere fact that he is a Christian,
is in our eyes a being devoid of all human dignity. Our reasoning is simple and definitive.
We say: the man whose judgment is so perverted as to deny the evidence of the One God and to
fabricate gods of different kinds, cannot be other than the most ignoble expression of human
stupidity. To speak to him would be a humiliation to our reason and an offence to the grandeur
of the Master of the Universe. The worshipper of false gods is a monster of ingratitude; he
is the execration of the universe; to combat him, convert him, or annihilate him is the holiest
task of the Faithful. These are the eternal commands of our One God. For us there are in this
world only Believers and Misbelievers; love, charity, fraternity to Believers; disgust, hatred,
and war to Misbelievers. Among Misbelievers, the most odious and criminal are those who, while
recognizing God, create Him of earthly parents, give Him a son, a mother; so monstrous an aberration
surpasses, in our eyes, all bounds of iniquity; the presence of such miscreants among us is
the bane of our existence; their doctrine is a direct insult to the purity of our faith; their
contact a pollution for our bodies; any relation with them a torture for our souls.

"While detesting you, we have been studying your political institutions and your military organizations.
Besides the new arms which Providence procures for us by your own means, you yourselves have
rekindled the inextinguishable faith of our heroic martyrs. Our Young Turks, our Babis, our
new fraternities, all are sects in their varied forms, are inspired by the same thought, the
same purpose. Toward what end? Christian civilization? Never!"[23]

Such harangues unfortunately find ready hearers among the Moslem masses. Although the liberal
reformers are a growing power in Islam, it must not be forgotten that they are as yet only
a minority, an élite, below whom lie the ignorant masses, still suffering from the blight of
age-long obscurantism, wrapped in admiration of their own world, which they regard as the highest
ideal of human existence, and fanatically hating everything outside as wicked, despicable,
and deceptive. Even when compelled to admit the superior power of the West, they hate it none
the less. They rebel blindly against the spirit of change which is forcing them out of their
old ruts, and their anger is still further heightened by that ubiquitous Western domination
which is pressing upon them from all sides. Such persons are as clay in the hands of the Pan-Islamic
and Nationalist leaders who mould the multitude to their own sinister ends.

Islam is, in fact, to-day torn between the forces of liberal reform and chauvinistic reaction.
The liberals are not only the hope of an evolutionary reformation, they are also favoured by
the trend of the times, since the Moslem world is being continually permeated by Western progress
and must continue to be thus permeated unless Western civilization itself collapses in ruin.
Yet, though the ultimate triumph of the liberals appears probable, what delays, what setbacks,
what fresh barriers of warfare and fanaticism may not the chauvinist reactionaries bring about!
Neither the reform of Islam nor the relations between East and West are free from perils whose
ominous possibilities we shall later discuss.

Meanwhile, there remains the hopeful fact that throughout the Moslem world a numerous and powerful
minority, composed not merely of Westernized persons but also of orthodox conservatives, are
aware of Islam's decadence and are convinced that a thoroughgoing reformation along liberal,
progressive lines is at once a practical necessity and a sacred duty. Exactly how this reformation
shall be legally effected has not yet been determined, nor is a detailed discussion of technical
machinery necessary for our consideration.[24] History teaches us that where the will to reform
is vitally present, reformation will somehow or other be accomplished.

One thing is certain: the reforming spirit, in its various manifestations, has already produced
profound changes throughout Islam. The Moslem world of to-day is vastly different from the
Moslem world of a century ago. The Wahabi leaven has destroyed abuses and has rekindled a purer
religious faith. Even its fanatical zeal has not been without moral compensations. The spread
of liberal principles and Western progress goes on apace. If there is much to fear for the
future, there is also much to hope.

FOOTNOTES:

[5] On the Wahabi movement, see A. Le Chatelier, L'Islam au dix-neuvième Siècle (Paris, 1888);
W. G. Palgrave, Essays on Eastern Questions (London, 1872); D. B. Macdonald, Muslim Theology
(London, 1903); J. L. Burckhardt, Notes on the Bedouins and Wahabys (2 vols., London, 1831);
A. Chodzko, "Le Déisme des Wahhabis," Journal Asiatique, IV., Vol. II., pp. 168 et seq.

[6] Not to be confused with Sir Syed Ahmed of Aligarh, the Indian Moslem liberal of the mid-nineteenth
century.

[7] For English alarm at the latent fanaticism of the North Indian Moslems, down through the
middle of the nineteenth century, see Sir W. W. Hunter, The Indian Musalmans (London, 1872).

[8] For the Babbist movement, see Clément Huart, La Réligion de Bab (Paris, 1889); Comte Arthur
de Gobineau, Trois Ans en Perse (Paris, 1867). A good summary of all these early movements
of the Mohammedan revival is found in Le Chatelier, op. cit.

[9] Mishkat-el-Masabih, I., 46, 51.

[10] The best recent examples of this polemical literature are the writings of the Rev. S.
M. Zwemer, the well known missionary to the Arabs; especially his Arabia, the Cradle of Islam
(Edinburgh, 1900), and The Reproach of Islam (London, 1915). Also see volume entitled The Mohammedan
World of To-day, being a collection of the papers read at the Protestant Missionary Conference
held at Cairo, Egypt, in 1906.

[11] Cromer, Modern Egypt, Vol. II., p. 229 (London, 1908). For Renan's attitude, see his L'Islamisme
et la Science (Paris, 1883).

[12] In the year 1633.

[13] Ismael Hamet, Les Musulmans français du Nord de l'Afrique (Paris, 1906).

[14] Quoted by Dr. Perron in his work L'Islamisme (Paris, 1877).

[15] The Mollahs are the Moslem clergy, though they do not exactly correspond to the clergy
of Christendom. Mohammed was averse to anything like a priesthood, and Islam makes no legal
provision for an ordained priestly class or caste, as is the case in Christianity, Judaism,
Brahmanism, and other religions. Theoretically any Moslem can conduct religious services. As
time passed, however, a class of men developed who were learned in Moslem theology and law.
These ultimately became practically priests, though theoretically they should be regarded as
theological lawyers. There also developed religious orders of dervishes, etc.; but primitive
Islam knew nothing of them.

[16] From the article by Léon Cahun in Lavisse et Rambeaud, Histoire Générale, Vol. XII., p.
498. This article gives an excellent general survey of the intellectual development of the
Moslem world in the nineteenth century.

[17] Especially his best-known book, The Spirit of Islam (London, 1891).

[18] S. Khuda Bukhsh, Essays: Indian and Islamic, pp. 20, 24, 284. (London, 1912).

[19] 1856 to 1878.

[20] For the liberal movement among the Russian Tartars, see Arminius Vambéry, Western Culture
in Eastern Lands (London, 1906).

[22] S. Khuda Bukhsh, op. cit., p. 241.

[23] Sheikh Abd-ul-Haak, in Sherif Pasha's organ, Mecheroutiette, of August, 1921. Quoted from
A. Servier, Le Nationalisme musulman, Constantine, Algeria, 1913. The Nineteenth Century and
After, October, 1908; M. Pickthall, "La Morale islamique," Revue Politique Internationale,
July, 1916; XX, "L'Islam après la Guerre," Revue de Paris, 15 January, 1916.

CHAPTER II

PAN-ISLAMISM

Like all great movements, the Mohammedan Revival is highly complex. Starting with the simple,
puritan protest of Wahabism, it has developed many phases, widely diverse and sometimes almost
antithetical. In the previous chapter we examined the phase looking toward an evolutionary
reformation of Islam and a genuine assimilation of the progressive spirit as well as the external
forms of Western civilization. At the same time we saw that these liberal reformers are as
yet only a minority, an élite; while the Moslem masses, still plunged in ignorance and imperfectly
awakened from their age-long torpor, are influenced by other leaders of a very different character--men
inclined to militant rather than pacific courses, and hostile rather than receptive to the
West. These militant forces are, in their turn, complex. They may be grouped roughly under
the general concepts known as "Pan-Islamism" and "Nationalism." It is to a consideration of
the first of these two concepts, to Pan-Islamism, that this chapter is devoted.

Pan-Islamism, which in its broadest sense is the feeling of solidarity between all "True Believers,"
is as old as the Prophet, when Mohammed and his few followers were bound together by the tie
of faith against their pagan compatriots who sought their destruction. To Mohammed the principle
of fraternal solidarity among Moslems was of transcendent importance, and he succeeded in implanting
this so deeply in Moslem hearts that thirteen centuries have not sensibly weakened it. The
bond between Moslem and Moslem is to-day much stronger than that between Christian and Christian.
Of course Moslems fight bitterly among themselves, but these conflicts never quite lose the
aspect of family quarrels and tend to be adjourned in presence of infidel aggression. Islam's
profound sense of solidarity probably explains in large part its extraordinary hold upon its
followers. No other religion has such a grip on its votaries. Islam has won vast territories
from Christianity and Brahmanism,[25] and has driven Magism from the face of the earth;[26]
yet there has been no single instance where a people, once become Moslem, has ever abandoned
the faith. Extirpated they may have been, like the Moors of Spain, but extirpation is not apostasy.

Islam's solidarity is powerfully buttressed by two of its fundamental institutions: the "Hajj,"
or pilgrimage to Mecca, and the caliphate. Contrary to the general opinion in the West, it
is the Hajj rather than the caliphate which has exerted the more consistently unifying influence.
Mohammed ordained the Hajj as a supreme act of faith, and every year fully 100,000 pilgrims
arrive, drawn from every quarter of the Moslem world. There, before the sacred Kaaba of Mecca,
men of all races, tongues, and cultures meet and mingle in an ecstasy of common devotion, returning
to their homes bearing the proud title of "Hajjis," or Pilgrims--a title which insures them
the reverent homage of their fellow Moslems for all the rest of their days. The political implications
of the Hajj are obvious. It is in reality a perennial Pan-Islamic congress, where all the interests
of the faith are discussed by delegates from every part of the Mohammedan world, and where
plans are elaborated for Islam's defence and propagation. Here nearly all the militant leaders
of the Mohammedan Revival (Abd-el-Wahab, Mahommed ben Sennussi, Djemal-ed-Din el-Afghani, and
many more) felt the imperious summons to their task.[27]

As for the caliphate, it has played a great historic rôle, especially in its early days, and
we have already studied its varying fortunes. Reduced to a mere shadow after the Mongol destruction
of Bagdad, it was revived by the Turkish sultans, who assumed the title and were recognized
as caliphs by the orthodox Moslem world.[28] However, these sultan-caliphs of Stambul[29] never
succeeded in winning the religious homage accorded their predecessors of Mecca and Bagdad.
In Arab eyes, especially, the spectacle of Turkish caliphs was an anachronism to which they
could never be truly reconciled. Sultan Abdul Hamid, to be sure, made an ambitious attempt
to revive the caliphate's pristine greatness, but such success as he attained was due more
to the general tide of Pan-Islamic feeling than to the inherent potency of the caliphal name.
The real leaders of modern Pan-Islamism either gave Abdul Hamid a merely qualified allegiance
or were, like El Sennussi, definitely hostile. This was not realized in Europe, which came
to fear Abdul Hamid as a sort of Mohammedan pope. Even to-day most Western observers seem to
think that Pan-Islamism centres in the caliphate, and we see European publicists hopefully
discussing whether the caliphate's retention by the discredited Turkish sultans, its transference
to the Shereef of Mecca, or its total suppression, will best clip Pan-Islam's wings. This,
however, is a distinctly short-sighted view. The caliphal institution is still undoubtedly
venerated in Islam. But the shrewd leaders of the modern Pan-Islamic movement have long been
working on a much broader basis. They realize that Pan-Islamism's real driving-power to-day
lies not in the caliphate but in institutions like the Hajj and the great Pan-Islamic fraternities
such as the Sennussiya, of which I shall presently speak.[30]

Let us now trace the fortunes of modern Pan-Islamism. Its first stage was of course the Wahabi
movement. The Wahabi state founded by Abd-el-Wahab in the Nejd was modelled on the theocratic
democracy of the Meccan caliphs, and when Abd-el-Wahab's princely disciple, Saud, loosed his
fanatic hosts upon the holy cities, he dreamed that this was but the first step in a puritan
conquest and consolidation of the whole Moslem world. Foiled in this grandiose design, Wahabism,
nevertheless, soon produced profound political disturbances in distant regions like northern
India and Afghanistan, as I have already narrated. They were, however, all integral parts of
the Wahabi phase, being essentially protests against the political decadence of Moslem states
and the moral decadence of Moslem rulers. These outbreaks were not inspired by any special
fear or hatred of the West, since Europe was not yet seriously assailing Islam except in outlying
regions like European Turkey or the Indies, and the impending peril was consequently not appreciated.

By the middle of the nineteenth century, however, the situation had radically altered. The
French conquest of Algeria, the Russian acquisition of Transcaucasia, and the English mastery
of virtually all India, convinced thoughtful Moslems everywhere that Islam was in deadly peril
of falling under Western domination. It was at this time that Pan-Islamism assumed that essentially
anti-Western character which it has ever since retained. At first resistance to Western encroachment
was sporadic and unco-ordinated. Here and there heroic figures like Abd-el-Kader in Algeria
and Shamyl in the Caucasus fought brilliantly against the European invaders. But though these
paladins of the faith were accorded widespread sympathy from Moslems, they received no tangible
assistance and, unaided, fell.

Fear and hatred of the West, however, steadily grew in intensity, and the seventies saw the
Moslem world swept from end to end by a wave of militant fanaticism. In Algeria there was the
Kabyle insurrection of 1871, while all over North Africa arose fanatical "Holy Men" preaching
holy wars, the greatest of these being the Mahdist insurrection in the Egyptian Sudan, which
maintained itself against England's best efforts down to Kitchener's capture of Khartum at
the very end of the century. In Afghanistan there was an intense exacerbation of fanaticism
awakening sympathetic echoes among the Indian Moslems, both of which gave the British much
trouble. In Central Asia there was a similar access of fanaticism, centring in the powerful
Nakechabendiya fraternity, spreading eastward into Chinese territory and culminating in the
great revolts of the Chinese Mohammedans both in Chinese Turkestan and Yunnan. In the Dutch
East Indies there was a whole series of revolts, the most serious of these being the Atchin
War, which dragged on interminably, not being quite stamped out even to-day.

The salient characteristic of this period of militant unrest is its lack of co-ordination.
These risings were all spontaneous outbursts of local populations; animated, to be sure, by
the same spirit of fear and hatred, and inflamed by the same fanatical hopes, but with no evidence
of a central authority laying settled plans and moving in accordance with a definite programme.
The risings were inspired largely by the mystical doctrine known as "Mahdism." Mahdism was
unknown to primitive Islam, no trace of it occurring in the Koran. But in the "traditions,"
or reputed sayings of Mohammed, there occurs the statement that the Prophet predicted the coming
of one bearing the title of "El Mahdi"[31] who would fill the earth with equity and justice.
From this arose the widespread mystical hope in the appearance of a divinely inspired personage
who would effect the universal triumph of Islam, purge the world of infidels, and assure the
lasting happiness of all Moslems. This doctrine has profoundly influenced Moslem history. At
various times fanatic leaders have arisen claiming to be El Mahdi, "The Master of the Hour,"
and have won the frenzied devotion of the Moslem masses; just as certain "Messiahs" have similarly
excited the Jews. It was thus natural that, in their growing apprehension and impotent rage
at Western aggression, the Moslem masses should turn to the messianic hope of Mahdism. Yet
Mahdism, by its very nature, could effect nothing constructive or permanent. It was a mere
straw fire; flaring up fiercely here and there, then dying down, leaving the disillusioned
masses more discouraged and apathetic than before.

Now all this was recognized by the wiser supporters of the Pan-Islamic idea. The impotence
of the wildest outbursts of local fanaticism against the methodical might of Europe convinced
thinking Moslems that long preparation and complete co-ordination of effort were necessary
if Islam was to have any chance of throwing off the European yoke. Such men also realized that
they must study Western methods and adopt much of the Western technique of power. Above all,
they felt that the political liberation of Islam from Western domination must be preceded by
a profound spiritual regeneration, thereby engendering the moral forces necessary both for
the war of liberation and for the fruitful reconstruction which should follow thereafter. At
this point the ideals of Pan-Islamists and liberals approach each other. Both recognize Islam's
present decadence; both desire its spiritual regeneration. It is on the nature of that regeneration
that the two parties are opposed. The liberals believe that Islam should really assimilate
Western ideas. The Pan-Islamists, on the other hand, believe that primitive Islam contains
all that is necessary for regeneration, and contend that only Western methods and material
achievements should be adopted by the Moslem world.

The beginnings of self-conscious, systematic Pan-Islamism date from about the middle of the
nineteenth century. The movement crystallizes about two foci: the new-type religious fraternities
like the Sennussiya, and the propaganda of the group of thinkers headed by Djemal-ed-Din. Let
us first consider the fraternities.

Religious fraternities have existed in Islam for centuries. They all possess the same general
type of organization, being divided into lodges ("Zawias") headed by Masters known as "Mokaddem,"
who exercise a more or less extensive authority over the "Khouan" or Brethren. Until the foundation
of the new-type organizations like the Sennussi, however, the fraternities exerted little practical
influence upon mundane affairs. Their interests were almost wholly religious, of a mystical,
devotional nature, often characterized by great austerities or by fanatical excesses like those
practised by the whirling and howling dervishes. Such political influence as they did exert
was casual and local. Anything like joint action was impossible, owing to their mutual rivalries
and jealousies. These old-type fraternities still exist in great numbers, but they are without
political importance except as they have been leavened by the new-type fraternities.

The new-type organizations date from about the middle of the nineteenth century, the most important
in every way being the Sennussiya. Its founder, Seyid Mahommed ben Sennussi, was born near
Mostaganem, Algeria, about the year 1800. As his title "Seyid" indicates, he was a descendant
of the Prophet, and was thus born to a position of honour and importance.[32] He early displayed
a strong bent for learning and piety, studying theology at the Moorish University of Fez and
afterwards travelling widely over North Africa preaching a reform of the prevailing religious
abuses. He then made the pilgrimage to Mecca, and there his reformist zeal was still further
quickened by the Wahabi teachers. It was at that time that he appears to have definitely formulated
his plan of a great puritan order, and in 1843 he returned to North Africa, settling in Tripoli,
where he built his first Zawia, known as the "Zawia Baida," or White Monastery, in the mountains
near Derna. So impressive was his personality and so great his organizing ability that converts
flocked to him from all over North Africa. Indeed, his power soon alarmed the Turkish authorities
in Tripoli, and relations became so strained that Seyid Mahommed presently moved his headquarters
to the oasis of Jarabub, far to the south in the Lybian desert. When he died in 1859, his organization
had spread over the greater part of North Africa.

Seyid Mahommed's work was carried on uninterruptedly by his son, usually known as Sennussi-el-Mahdi.
The manner in which this son gained his succession typifies the Sennussi spirit. Seyid Mahommed
had two sons, El Mahdi being the younger. While they were still mere lads, their father determined
to put them to a test, to discover which of them had the stronger faith. In presence of the
entire Zawia he bade both sons climb a tall palm-tree, and then adjured them by Allah and his
Prophet to leap to the ground. The younger lad leaped at once and reached the ground unharmed;
the elder boy refused to spring. To El Mahdi, "who feared not to commit himself to the will
of God," passed the right to rule. Throughout his long life Sennussi-el-Mahdi justified his
father's choice, displaying wisdom and piety of a high order, and further extending the power
of the fraternity. During the latter part of his reign he removed his headquarters to the oasis
of Jowf, still farther into the Lybian desert, where he died in 1902, and was succeeded by
his nephew, Ahmed-el-Sherif, the present head of the Order, who also appears to possess marked
ability.

With nearly eighty years of successful activity behind it, the Sennussi Order is to-day one
of the vital factors in Islam. It counts its adherents in every quarter of the Moslem world.
In Arabia its followers are very numerous, and it profoundly influences the spiritual life
of the holy cities, Mecca and Medina. North Africa, however, still remains the focus of Sennussism.
The whole of northern Africa, from Morocco to Somaliland, is dotted with its Zawias, or lodges,
all absolutely dependent upon the Grand Lodge, headed by The Master, El Sennussi. The Sennussi
stronghold of Jowf lies in the very heart of the Lybian Sahara. Only one European eye[33] has
ever seen this mysterious spot. Surrounded by absolute desert, with wells many leagues apart,
and the routes of approach known only to experienced Sennussi guides, every one of whom would
suffer a thousand deaths rather than betray him, El Sennussi, The Master, sits serenely apart,
sending his orders throughout North Africa.

The influence exerted by the Sennussiya is profound. The local Zawias are more than mere "lodges."
Besides the Mokaddem, or Master, there is also a "Wekil," or civil governor, and these officers
have discretionary authority not merely over the Zawia members but also over the community
at large--at least, so great is the awe inspired by the Sennussiya throughout North Africa,
that a word from Wekil or Mokaddem is always listened to and obeyed. Thus, besides the various
European colonial authorities, British, French, or Italian, as the case may be, there exists
an occult government with which the colonial authorities are careful not to come into conflict.

On their part, the Sennussi are equally careful to avoid a downright breach with the European
Powers. Their long-headed, cautious policy is truly astonishing. For more than half a century
the order has been a great force, yet it has never risked the supreme adventure. In many of
the fanatic risings which have occurred in various parts of Africa, local Sennussi have undoubtedly
taken part, and the same was true during the Italian campaign in Tripoli and in the late war,
but the order itself has never officially entered the lists.

In fact, this attitude of mingled cautious reserve and haughty aloofness is maintained not
only towards Christians but also towards the other powers that be in Islam. The Sennussiya
has always kept its absolute freedom of action. Its relations with the Turks have never been
cordial. Even the wily Abdul Hamid, at the height of his prestige as the champion of Pan-Islamism,
could never get from El Sennussi more than coldly platonic expressions of approval, and one
of Sennussi-el-Mahdi's favourite remarks was said to have been: "Turks and Christians: I will
break both of them with one and the same stroke." Equally characteristic was his attitude toward
Mahommed Ahmed, the leader of the "Mahdist" uprising in the Egyptian Sudan. Flushed with victory,
Mahommed Ahmed sent emissaries to El Sennussi, asking his aid. El Sennussi refused, remarking
haughtily: "What have I to do with this fakir from Dongola? Am I not myself Mahdi if I choose?"

These Fabian tactics do not mean that the Sennussi are idle. Far from it. On the contrary,
they are ceaselessly at work with the spiritual arms of teaching, discipline, and conversion.
The Sennussi programme is the welding, first, of Moslem Africa and, later, of the whole Moslem
world into the revived "Imâmât" of Islam's early days; into a great theocracy, embracing all
True Believers--in other words, Pan-Islamism. But they believe that the political liberation
of Islam from Christian domination must be preceded by a profound spiritual regeneration. Toward
this end they strive ceaselessly to improve the manners and morals of the populations under
their influence, while they also strive to improve material conditions by encouraging the better
cultivation of oases, digging new wells, building rest-houses along the caravan routes, and
promoting trade. The slaughter and rapine practised by the Sudanese Mahdists disgusted the
Sennussi and drew from their chief words of scathing condemnation.

All this explains the Order's unprecedented self-restraint. This is the reason why, year after
year and decade after decade, the Sennussi advance slowly, calmly, coldly; gathering great
latent power, but avoiding the temptation to expend it one instant before the proper time.
Meanwhile they are covering North Africa with their lodges and schools, disciplining the people
to the voice of their Mokaddems and Wekils; and, to the southward, converting millions of pagan
negroes to the faith of Islam.[34]

Nothing better shows modern Islam's quickened vitality than the revival of missionary fervour
during the past hundred years. Of course Islam has always displayed strong proselytizing power.
Its missionary successes in its early days were extraordinary, and even in its period of decline
it never wholly lost its propagating vigour. Throughout the Middle Ages Islam continued to
gain ground in India and China; the Turks planted it firmly in the Balkans; while between the
fourteenth and sixteenth centuries Moslem missionaries won notable triumphs in such distant
regions as West Africa, the Dutch Indies, and the Philippines. Nevertheless, taking the Moslem
world as a whole, religious zeal undoubtedly declined, reaching low-water mark during the eighteenth
century.

The first breath of the Mohammedan Revival, however, blew the smouldering embers of proselytism
into a new flame, and everywhere except in Europe Islam began once more advancing portentously
along all its far-flung frontiers. Every Moslem is, to some extent, a born missionary and instinctively
propagates his faith among his non-Moslem neighbours, so the work was carried on not only by
priestly specialists but also by multitudes of travellers, traders, and humble migratory workers.[35]
Of course numerous zealots consecrated their lives to the task. This was particularly true
of the religious fraternities. The Sennussi have especially distinguished themselves by their
apostolic fervour, and from those natural monasteries, the oases of the Sahara, thousands of
"Marabouts" have gone forth with flashing eyes and swelling breasts to preach the marvels of
Islam, devoured with a zeal like that of the Christian mendicant friars of the Middle Ages.
Islam's missionary triumphs among the negroes of West and Central Africa during the past century
have been extraordinary. Every candid European observer tells the same story. As an Englishman
very justly remarked some twenty years ago: "Mohammedanism is making marvellous progress in
the interior of Africa. It is crushing paganism out. Against it the Christian propaganda is
a myth."[36] And a French Protestant missionary remarks in similar vein: "We see Islam on its
march, sometimes slowed down but never stopped, towards the heart of Africa. Despite all obstacles
encountered, it tirelessly pursues its way. It fears nothing. Even Christianity, its most serious
rival, Islam regards without hate, so sure is it of victory. While Christians dream of the
conquest of Africa, the Mohammedans do it."[37]

The way in which Islam is marching southward is dramatically shown by a recent incident. A
few years ago the British authorities suddenly discovered that Mohammedanism was pervading
Nyassaland. An investigation brought out the fact that it was the work of Zanzibar Arabs. They
began their propaganda about 1900. Ten years later almost every village in southern Nyassaland
had its Moslem teacher and its mosque hut. Although the movement was frankly anti-European,
the British authorities did not dare to check it for fear of repercussions elsewhere. Many
European observers fear that it is only a question of time when Islam will cross the Zambezi
and enter South Africa.

And these gains are not made solely against paganism. They are being won at the expense of
African Christianity as well. In West Africa the European missions lose many of their converts
to Islam, while across the continent the ancient Abyssinian Church, so long an outpost against
Islam, seems in danger of submersion by the rising Moslem tide. Not by warlike incursions,
but by peaceful penetration, the Abyssinians are being Islamized. "Tribes which, fifty or sixty
years ago, counted hardly a Mohammedan among them, to-day live partly or wholly according to
the precepts of Islam."[38]

Islam's triumphs in Africa are perhaps its most noteworthy missionary victories, but they by
no means tell the whole story, as a few instances drawn from other quarters of the Moslem world
will show. In the previous chapter I mentioned the liberal movement among the Russian Tartars.
That, however, was only one phase of the Mohammedan Revival in that region, another phase being
a marked resurgence of proselyting zeal. These Tartars had long been under Russian rule, and
the Orthodox Church had made persistent efforts to convert them, in some instances with apparent
success. But when the Mohammedan Revival reached the Tartars early in the nineteenth century,
they immediately began labouring with their christianized brethren, and in a short time most
of these reverted to Islam despite the best efforts of the Orthodox Church and the punitive
measures of the Russian governmental authorities. Tartar missionaries also began converting
the heathen Turko-Finnish tribes to the northward, in defiance of every hindrance from their
Russian masters.[39]

In China, likewise, the nineteenth century witnessed an extraordinary development of Moslem
energy. Islam had reached China in very early times, brought in by Arab traders and bands of
Arab mercenary soldiers. Despite centuries of intermarriage with Chinese women, their descendants
still differ perceptibly from the general Chinese population, and regard themselves as a separate
and superior people. The Chinese Mohammedans are mainly concentrated in the southern province
of Yunnan and the inland provinces beyond. Besides these racially Chinese Moslems, another
centre of Mohammedan population is found in the Chinese dependency of Eastern or Chinese Turkestan,
inhabited by Turkish stocks and conquered by the Chinese only in the eighteenth century. Until
comparatively recent times the Chinese Moslems were well treated, but gradually their proud-spirited
attitude alarmed the Chinese Government, which withdrew their privileges and persecuted them.
Early in the nineteenth century the breath of the Mohammedan Revival reached China, as it did
every other part of the Moslem world, and the Chinese Mohammedans, inflamed by resurgent fanaticism,
began a series of revolts culminating in the great rebellions which took place about the year
1870, both in Yunnan and in Eastern Turkestan. As usual, these fanaticized Moslems displayed
fierce fighting power. The Turkestan rebels found an able leader, one Yakub Beg, and for some
years both Turkestan and Yunnan were virtually independent. To many European observers at that
time it looked as though the rebels might join hands, erect a permanent Mohammedan state in
western China, and even overrun the whole empire. The fame of Yakub Beg spread through the
Moslem world, the Sultan of Turkey honouring him with the high title of Commander of the Faithful.
After years of bitter fighting, accompanied by frightful massacres, the Chinese Government
subdued the rebels. The Chinese Moslems, greatly reduced in numbers, have not yet recovered
their former strength; but their spirit is still unbroken, and to-day they number fully 10,000,000.
Thus, Chinese Islam, despite its setbacks, is a factor to be reckoned with in the future.[40]

The above instances do not exhaust the list of Islam's activities during the past century.
In India, for example, Islam has continued to gain ground rapidly, while in the Dutch Indies
it is the same story.[41] European domination actually favours rather than retards the spread
of Islam, for the Moslem finds in Western improvements, like the railroad, the post-office,
and the printing-press, useful adjuncts to Islamic propaganda.

Let us now consider the second originating centre of modern Pan-Islamism--the movement especially
associated with the personality of Djemal-ed-Din.

Seyid Djemal-ed-Din el-Afghani was born early in the nineteenth century at Asadabad, near Hamadan,
in Persia, albeit, as his name shows, he was of Afghan rather than Iranian descent, while his
title "Seyid," meaning descendant of the Prophet, implies a strain of Arab blood. Endowed with
a keen intelligence, great personal magnetism, and abounding vigour, Djemal-ed-Din had a stormy
and chequered career. He was a great traveller, knowing intimately not only most of the Moslem
world but western Europe as well. From these travels, supplemented by wide reading, he gained
a notable fund of information which he employed effectively in his manifold activities. A born
propagandist, Djemal-ed-Din attracted wide attention, and wherever he went in Islam his strong
personality started an intellectual ferment. Unlike El Sennussi, he concerned himself very
little with theology, devoting himself to politics. Djemal-ed-Din was the first Mohammedan
who fully grasped the impending peril of Western domination, and he devoted his life to warning
the Islamic world of the danger and attempting to elaborate measures of defence. By European
colonial authorities he was soon singled out as a dangerous agitator. The English, in particular,
feared and persecuted him. Imprisoned for a while in India, he went to Egypt about 1880, and
had a hand in the anti-European movement of Arabi Pasha. When the English occupied Egypt in
1882 they promptly expelled Djemal, who continued his wanderings, finally reaching Constantinople.
Here he found a generous patron in Abdul-Hamid, then evolving his Pan-Islamic policy. Naturally,
the Sultan was enchanted with Djemal, and promptly made him the head of his Pan-Islamic propaganda
bureau. In fact, it is probable that the success of the Sultan's Pan-Islamic policy was largely
due to Djemal's ability and zeal. Djemal died in 1896 at an advanced age, active to the last.

Djemal-ed-Din's teachings may be summarized as follows:

"The Christian world, despite its internal differences of race and nationality, is, as against
the East and especially as against Islam, united for the destruction of all Mohammedan states.

"The Crusades still subsist, as well as the fanatical spirit of Peter the Hermit. At heart,
Christendom still regards Islam with fanatical hatred and contempt. This is shown in many ways,
as in international law, before which Moslem nations are not treated as the equals of Christian
nations.

"Christian governments excuse the attacks and humiliations inflicted upon Moslem states by
citing the latter's backward and barbarous condition; yet these same governments stifle by
a thousand means, even by war, every attempted effort of reform and revival in Moslem lands.

"Hatred of Islam is common to all Christian peoples, not merely to some of them, and the result
of this spirit is a tacit, persistent effort for Islam's destruction.

"Every Moslem feeling and aspiration is caricatured and calumniated by Christendom. 'The Europeans
call in the Orient "fanaticism" what at home they call "nationalism" and "patriotism." And
what in the West they call "self-respect," "pride," "national honour," in the East they call
"chauvinism." What in the West they esteem as national sentiment, in the East they consider
xenophobia.'[42]

"From all this, it is plain that the whole Moslem world must unite in a great defensive alliance,
to preserve itself from destruction; and, to do this, it must acquire the technique of Western
progress and learn the secrets of European power."

Such, in brief, are the teachings of Djemal-ed-Din, propagated with eloquence and authority
for many years. Given the state of mingled fear and hatred of Western encroachment that was
steadily spreading throughout the Moslem world, it is easy to see how great Djemal's influence
must have been. And of course Djemal was not alone in his preaching. Other influential Moslems
were agitating along much the same lines as early as the middle of the nineteenth century.
One of these pioneers was the Turkish notable Aali Pasha, who was said to remark: "What we
want is rather an increase of fanaticism than a diminution of it."[43] Arminius Vambéry, the
eminent Hungarian Oriental scholar, states that shortly after the Crimean War he was present
at a militant Pan-Islamic gathering, attended by emissaries from far parts of the Moslem world,
held at Aali Pasha's palace.[44]

Such were the foundations upon which Sultan Abdul Hamid built his ambitious Pan-Islamic structure.
Abdul Hamid is one of the strangest personalities of modern times. A man of unusual intelligence,
his mind was yet warped by strange twists which went to the verge of insanity. Nursing ambitious,
grandiose projects, he tried to carry them out by dark and tortuous methods which, though often
cleverly Macchiavellian, were sometimes absurdly puerile. An autocrat by nature, he strove
to keep the smallest decisions dependent on his arbitrary will, albeit he was frequently guided
by clever sycophants who knew how to play upon his superstitions and his prejudices.

Abdul Hamid ascended the throne in 1876 under very difficult circumstances. The country was
on the verge of a disastrous Russian war, while the government was in the hands of statesmen
who were endeavouring to transform Turkey into a modern state and who had introduced all sorts
of Western political innovations, including a parliament. Abdul Hamid, however, soon changed
all this. Taking advantage of the confusion which marked the close of the Russian war, he abolished
parliament and made himself as absolute a despot as any of his ancestors had ever been. Secure
in his autocratic power, Abdul Hamid now began to evolve his own peculiar policy, which, from
the first, had a distinctly Pan-Islamic trend[45]. Unlike his immediate predecessors, Abdul
Hamid determined to use his position as caliph for far-reaching political ends. Emphasizing
his spiritual headship of the Mohammedan world rather than his political headship of the Turkish
state, he endeavoured to win the active support of all Moslems and, by that support, to intimidate
European Powers who might be formulating aggressive measures against the Ottoman Empire. Before
long Abdul Hamid had built up an elaborate Pan-Islamic propaganda organization, working mainly
by secretive, tortuous methods. Constantinople became the Mecca of all the fanatics and anti-Western
agitators like Djemal-ed-Din. And from Constantinople there went forth swarms of picked emissaries,
bearing to the most distant parts of Islam the Caliph's message of hope and impending deliverance
from the menace of infidel rule.

Abdul Hamid's Pan-Islamic propaganda went on uninterruptedly for nearly thirty years. Precisely
what this propaganda accomplished is very difficult to estimate. In the first place, it was
cut short, and to some extent reversed, by the Young-Turk resolution of 1908 which drove Abdul
Hamid from the throne. It certainly was never put to the test of a war between Turkey and a
first-class European Power. This is what renders any theoretical appraisal so inconclusive.
Abdul Hamid did succeed in gaining the respectful acknowledgment of his spiritual authority
by most Moslem princes and notables, and he certainly won the pious veneration of the Moslem
masses. In the most distant regions men came to regard the mighty Caliph in Stambul as, in
very truth, the Defender of the Faith, and to consider his empire as the bulwark of Islam.
On the other hand, it is a far cry from pious enthusiasm to practical performance. Furthermore,
Abdul Hamid did not succeed in winning over powerful Pan-Islamic leaders like El Sennussi,
who suspected his motives and questioned his judgment; while Moslem liberals everywhere disliked
him for his despotic, reactionary, inefficient rule. It is thus a very debatable question whether,
if Abdul Hamid had ever called upon the Moslem world for armed assistance in a "holy war,"
he would have been generally supported.

Yet Abdul Hamid undoubtedly furthered the general spread of Pan-Islamic sentiment throughout
the Moslem world. In this larger sense he succeeded; albeit not so much from his position as
caliph as because he incarnated the growing fear and hatred of the West. Thus we may conclude
that Abdul Hamid's Pan-Islamic propaganda did produce profound and lasting effects which will
have to be seriously reckoned with.

The Young-Turk revolution of 1908 greatly complicated the situation. It was soon followed by
the Persian revolution and by kindred symptoms in other parts of the East. These events brought
into sudden prominence new forces, such as constitutionalism, nationalism, and even social
unrest, which had long been obscurely germinating in Islam but which had been previously denied
expression. We shall later consider these new forces in detail. The point to be here noted
is their complicating effect on the Pan-Islamic movement. Pan-Islamism was, in fact, cross-cut
and deflected from its previous course, and a period of confusion and mental uncertainty supervened.

This interim period was short. By 1912 Pan-Islamism had recovered its poise and was moving
forward once more. The reason was renewed pressure from the West. In 1911 came Italy's barefaced
raid on Turkey's African dependency of Tripoli, while in 1912 the allied Christian Balkan states
attacked Turkey in the Balkan War, which sheared away Turkey's European provinces to the very
walls of Constantinople and left her crippled and discredited. Moreover, in those same fateful
years Russia and England strangled the Persian revolution, while France, as a result of the
Agadir crisis, closed her grip on Morocco. Thus, in a scant two years, the Moslem world had
suffered at European hands assaults not only unprecedented in gravity but, in Moslem eyes,
quite without provocation.

The effect upon Islam was tremendous. A flood of mingled despair and rage swept the Moslem
world from end to end. And, of course, the Pan-Islamic implication was obvious. This was precisely
what Pan-Islam's agitators had been preaching for fifty years--the Crusade of the West for
Islam's destruction. What could be better confirmation of the warnings of Djemal-ed-Din?

The results were soon seen. In Tripoli, where Turks and Arabs had been on the worst of terms,
both races clasped hands in a sudden access of Pan-Islamic fervour, and the Italian invaders
were met with a fanatical fury that roused Islam to wild applause and inspired Western observers
with grave disquietude. "Why has Italy found 'defenceless' Tripoli such a hornets' nest?" queried
Gabriel Hanotaux, a former French minister of foreign affairs. "It is because she has to do,
not merely with Turkey, but with Islam as well. Italy has set the ball rolling--so much the
worse for her--and for us all."[46] The Anglo-Russian man-handling of Persia likewise roused
much wrathful comment throughout Islam,[47] while the impending extinction of Moroccan independence
at French hands was discussed with mournful indignation.

But with the coming of the Balkan War the wrath of Islam knew no bounds. From China to the
Congo, pious Moslems watched with bated breath the swaying battle-lines in the far-off Balkans,
and when the news of Turkish disaster came, Islam's cry of wrathful anguish rose hoarse and
high. A prominent Indian Mohammedan well expressed the feelings of his co-religionists everywhere
when he wrote: "The King of Greece orders a new Crusade. From the London Chancelleries rise
calls to Christian fanaticism, and Saint Petersburg already speaks of the planting of the Cross
on the dome of Sant' Sophia. To-day they speak thus; to-morrow they will thus speak of Jerusalem
and the Mosque of Omar. Brothers! Be ye of one mind, that it is the duty of every True Believer
to hasten beneath the Khalifa's banner and to sacrifice his life for the safety of the faith."[48]
And another Indian Moslem leader thus adjured the British authorities: "I appeal to the present
government to change its anti-Turkish attitude before the fury of millions of Moslem fellow-subjects
is kindled to a blaze and brings disaster."[49]

Most significant of all were the appeals made at this time by Moslems to non-Mohammedan Asiatics
for sympathy and solidarity against the hated West. This was a development as unprecedented
as it was startling. Mohammed, revering as he did the Old and New Testaments, and regarding
himself as the successor of the divinely inspired prophets Moses and Jesus, had enjoined upon
his followers relative respect for Christians and Jews ("Peoples of the Book") in contrast
with other non-Moslems, whom he stigmatized as "Idolaters." These injunctions of the Prophet
had always been heeded, and down to our own days the hatred of Moslems for Christians, however
bitter, had been as nothing compared with their loathing and contempt for "Idolaters" like
the Brahmanist Hindus or the Buddhists and Confucianists of the Far East.

The first symptom of a change in attitude appeared during the Russo-Japanese War of 1904. So
great had Islam's fear and hatred of the Christian West then become, that the triumph of an
Asiatic people over Europeans was enthusiastically hailed by many Moslems, even though the
victors were "Idolaters." It was quite in keeping with Pan-Islamism's strong missionary bent
that many pious Moslems should have dreamed of bringing these heroes within the Islamic fold.
Efforts to get in touch with Japan were made. Propagandist papers were founded, missionaries
were selected, and the Sultan sent a warship to Japan with a Pan-Islamic delegation aboard.
Throughout Islam the projected conversion of Japan was widely discussed. Said an Egyptian journal
in the year 1906: "England, with her sixty million Indian Moslems, dreads this conversion.
With a Mohammedan Japan, Mussulman policy would change entirely."[50] And, at the other end
of the Moslem world, a Chinese Mohammedan sheikh wrote: "If Japan thinks of becoming some day
a very great power and making Asia the dominator of the other continents, it will be only by
adopting the blessed religion of Islam."[51]

Of course it soon became plain to these enthusiasts that while Japan received Islam's emissaries
with smiling courtesy, she had not the faintest intention of turning Mohammedan. Nevertheless,
the first step had been taken towards friendly relations with non-Moslem Asia, and the Balkan
War drove Moslems much further in this direction. The change in Moslem sentiment can be gauged
by the numerous appeals made by the Indian Mohammedans at this time to Hindus, as may be seen
from the following sample entitled significantly "The Message of the East." "Spirit of the
East," reads this noteworthy document, "arise and repel the swelling flood of Western aggression!
Children of Hindustan, aid us with your wisdom, culture, and wealth; lend us your power, the
birthright and heritage of the Hindu! Let the Spirit Powers hidden in the Himalayan mountain-peaks
arise. Let prayers to the god of battles float upward; prayers that right may triumph over
might; and call to your myriad gods to annihilate the armies of the foe!"[52]

To any one who realizes the traditional Moslem attitude towards "Idolaters" such words are
simply amazing. They betoken a veritable revolution in outlook. And such sentiments were not
confined to Indian Moslems; they were equally evident among Chinese Moslems as well. Said a
Mohammedan newspaper of Chinese Turkestan, advocating a fraternal union of all Chinese against
Western aggression: "Europe has grown too presumptuous. It will deprive us of our liberty;
it will destroy us altogether if we do not bestir ourselves promptly and prepare for a powerful
resistance."[53] During the troublous first stages of the Chinese revolution, the Mohammedans,
emerging from their sulky aloofness, co-operated so loyally with their Buddhist and Confucian
fellow-patriots that Dr. Sun-Yat-Sen, the Republican leader, announced gratefully: "The Chinese
will never forget the assistance which their Moslem fellow-countrymen have rendered in the
interest of order and liberty."[54]

The Great War thus found Islam everywhere deeply stirred against European aggression, keenly
conscious of its own solidarity, and frankly reaching out for Asiatic allies in the projected
struggle against European domination.

Under these circumstances it may at first sight appear strange that no general Islamic explosion
occurred when Turkey entered the lists at the close of 1914 and the Sultan Caliph issued a
formal summons to the Holy War. Of course this summons was not the flat failure which Allied
reports led the West to believe at the time. As a matter of fact, there was trouble in practically
every Mohammedan land under Allied control. To name only a few of many instances: Egypt broke
into a tumult smothered only by overwhelming British reinforcements, Tripoli burst into a flame
of insurrection that drove the Italians headlong to the coast, Persia was prevented from joining
Turkey only by prompt Russo-British intervention, while the Indian North-West Frontier was
the scene of fighting that required the presence of a quarter of a million Anglo-Indian troops.
The British Government has officially admitted that during 1915 the Allies' Asiatic and African
possessions stood within a hand's breadth of a cataclysmic insurrection.

That insurrection would certainly have taken place if Islam's leaders had everywhere spoken
the fateful word. But the word was not spoken. Instead, influential Moslems outside of Turkey
generally condemned the latter's action and did all in their power to calm the passions of
the fanatic multitude.

The attitude of these leaders does credit to their discernment. They recognized that this was
neither the time nor the occasion for a decisive struggle with the West. They were not yet
materially prepared, and they had not perfected their understandings either among themselves
or with their prospective non-Moslem allies. Above all, the moral urge was lacking. They knew
that athwart the Khalifa's writ was stencilled "Made in Germany." They knew that the "Young-Turk"
clique which had engineered the coup was made up of Europeanized renegades, many of them not
even nominal Moslems, but atheistic Jews. Far-sighted Moslems had no intention of pulling Germany's
chestnuts out of the fire, nor did they wish to further Prussian schemes of world-dominion
which for themselves would have meant a mere change of masters. Far better to let the West
fight out its desperate feud, weaken itself, and reveal fully its future intentions. Meanwhile
Islam could bide its time, grow in strength, and await the morrow.

The Versailles peace conference was just such a revelation of European intentions as the Pan-Islamic
leaders had been waiting for in order to perfect their programmes and enlist the moral solidarity
of their followers. At Versailles the European Powers showed unequivocally that they had no
intention of relaxing their hold upon the Near and Middle East. By a number of secret treaties
negotiated during the war, the Ottoman Empire had been virtually partitioned between the victorious
Allies, and these secret treaties formed the basis of the Versailles settlement. Furthermore,
Egypt had been declared a British protectorate at the very beginning of the war, while the
Versailles conference had scarcely adjourned before England announced an "agreement" with Persia
which made that country another British protectorate in fact if not in name. The upshot was,
as already stated, that the Near and Middle East were subjected to European political domination
as never before.

But there was another side to the shield. During the war years the Allied statesmen had officially
proclaimed times without number that the war was being fought to establish a new world-order
based on such principles as the rights of small nations and the liberty of all peoples. These
pronouncements had been treasured and memorized throughout the East. When, therefore, the East
saw a peace settlement based, not upon these high professions, but upon the imperialistic secret
treaties, it was fired with a moral indignation and sense of outraged justice never known before.
A tide of impassioned determination began rising which has set already the entire East in tumultuous
ferment, and which seems merely the premonitory ground-swell of a greater storm. So ominous
were the portents that even before the Versailles conference had adjourned many European students
of Eastern affairs expressed grave alarm. Here, for example, is the judgment of Leone Caetani,
Duke of Sermoneta, an Italian authority on Mohammedan questions. Speaking in the spring of
1919 on the war's effect on the East, he said: "The convulsion has shaken Islamic and Oriental
civilization to its foundations. The entire Oriental world, from China to the Mediterranean,
is in ferment. Everywhere the hidden fire of anti-European hatred is burning. Riots in Morocco,
risings in Algiers, discontent in Tripoli, so-called Nationalist attempts in Egypt, Arabia,
and Lybia are all different manifestations of the same deep sentiment, and have as their object
the rebellion of the Oriental world against European civilization."[55]

Those words are a prophetic forecast of what has since occurred in the Moslem world. Because
recent events are perhaps even more involved with the nationalistic aspirations of the Moslem
peoples than they are with the strictly Pan-Islamic movement, I propose to defer their detailed
discussion till the chapter on Nationalism. We should, however, remember that Moslem nationalism
and Pan-Islamism, whatever their internal differences, tend to unite against the external pressure
of European domination and equally desire Islam's liberation from European political control.
Remembering these facts, let us survey the present condition of the Pan-Islamic movement.

Pan-Islamism has been tremendously stimulated by Western pressure, especially by the late war
and the recent peace settlements. However, Pan-Islamism must not be considered as merely a
defensive political reaction against external aggression. It springs primarily from that deep
sentiment of unity which links Moslem to Moslem by bonds much stronger than those which unite
the members of the Christian world. These bonds are not merely religious, in the technical
sense; they are social and cultural as well. Throughout the Moslem world, despite wide differences
in local customs and regulations, the basic laws of family and social conduct are everywhere
the same. "The truth is that Islam is more than a creed, it is a complete social system; it
is a civilization with a philosophy, a culture, and an art of its own; in its long struggle
against the rival civilization of Christendom it has become an organic unit conscious of itself."[56]

To this Islamic civilization all Moslems are deeply attached. In this larger sense, Pan-Islamism
is universal. Even the most liberal-minded Moslems, however much they may welcome Western ideas,
and however strongly they may condemn the fanatical, reactionary aspects of the political Pan-Islamic
movement, believe fervently in Islam's essential solidarity. As a leading Indian Moslem liberal,
The Aga Khan, remarks: "There is a right and legitimate Pan-Islamism to which every sincere
and believing Mohammedan belongs--that is, the theory of the spiritual brotherhood and unity
of the children of the Prophet. The real spiritual and cultural unity of Islam must ever grow,
for to the follower of the Prophet it is the foundation of the life and the soul."[57]

If such is the attitude of Moslem liberals, thoroughly conversant with Western culture and
receptive to Western progress, what must be the feelings of the Moslem masses, ignorant, reactionary,
and fanatical? Besides perfectly understandable fear and hatred due to Western aggression,
there is, among the Moslem masses, a great deal of genuine fanaticism caused, not by European
political domination, but by religious bigotry and blind hatred of Western civilization.[58]
But this fanaticism has, of course, been greatly inflamed by the political events of the past
decade, until to-day religious, cultural, and political hatred of the West have coalesced in
a state of mind decidedly ominous for the peace of the world. We should not delude ourselves
into minimizing the dangerous possibilities of the present situation. Just because the fake
"Holy War" proclaimed by the Young-Turks at German instigation in 1914 did not come off is
no reason for believing that a real holy war is impossible. As a German staff-officer in Turkish
service during the late struggle very candidly says: "The Holy War was an absolute fiasco just
because it was not a Holy War."[59] I have already explained how most Moslems saw through the
trick and refused to budge.

However, the long series of European aggressions, culminating in the recent peace settlements
which subjected virtually the entire Moslem world to European domination, have been steadily
rousing in Moslem hearts a spirit of despairing rage that may have disastrous consequences.
Certainly, the materials for a holy war have long been heaping high. More than twenty years
ago Arminius Vambéry, who knew the Moslem world as few Europeans have ever known it, warned
the West of the perils engendered by recklessly imperialistic policies. "As time passes," he
wrote in 1898, "the danger of a general war becomes ever greater. We should not forget that
time has considerably augmented the adversary's force of resistance. I mean by this the sentiment
of solidarity which is becoming livelier of late years among the peoples of Islam, and which
in our age of rapid communication is no longer a negligible quantity, as it was even ten or
twenty years ago.

"It may not be superfluous to draw the attention of our nineteenth-century Crusaders to the
importance of the Moslem press, whose ramifications extend all over Asia and Africa, and whose
exhortations sink more profoundly than they do with us into the souls of their readers. In
Turkey, India, Persia, Central Asia, Java, Egypt, and Algeria, native organs, daily and periodical,
begin to exert a profound influence. Everything that Europe thinks, decides, and executes against
Islam spreads through those countries with the rapidity of lightning. Caravans carry the news
to the heart of China and to the equator, where the tidings are commented upon in very singular
fashion. Certain sparks struck at our meetings and banquets kindle, little by little, menacing
flames. Hence, it would be an unpardonable legerity to close our eyes to the dangers lurking
beneath an apparent passivity. What the Terdjuman of Crimea says between the lines is repeated
by the Constantinople Ikdam, and is commented on and exaggerated at Calcutta by The Moslem
Chronicle.

"Of course, at present, the bond of Pan-Islamism is composed of tenuous and dispersed strands.
But Western aggression might easily unite those strands into a solid whole, bringing about
a general war".[60]

In the decades which have elapsed since Vambéry wrote those lines the situation has become
much more tense. Moslem resentment at European dominance has increased, has been reinforced
by nationalistic aspirations almost unknown during the last century, and possesses methods
of highly efficient propaganda. For example, the Pan-Islamic press, to which Vambéry refers,
has developed in truly extraordinary fashion. In 1900 there were in the whole Islamic world
not more than 200 propagandist journals. By 1906 there were 500, while in 1914 there were well
over 1000.[61] Moslems fully appreciate the post-office, the railroad, and other modern methods
of rapidly interchanging ideas. "Every Moslem country is in communication with every other
Moslem country: directly, by means of special emissaries, pilgrims, travellers, traders, and
postal exchanges; indirectly, by means of Mohammedan newspapers, books, pamphlets, leaflets,
and periodicals. I have met with Cairo newspapers in Bagdad, Teheran, and Peshawar; Constantinople
newspapers in Basra and Bombay; Calcutta newspapers in Mohammerah, Kerbela, and Port Said."[62]
As for the professional Pan-Islamic propagandists, more particularly those of the religious
fraternities, they swarm everywhere, rousing the fanaticism of the people: "Travelling under
a thousand disguises--as merchants, preachers, students, doctors, workmen, beggars, fakirs,
mountebanks, pretended fools or rhapsodists, these emissaries are everywhere well received
by the Faithful and are efficaciously protected against the suspicious investigations of the
European colonial authorities."[63]

Furthermore, there is to-day in the Moslem world a widespread conviction, held by liberals
and chauvinists alike (albeit for very different reasons), that Islam is entering on a period
of Renaissance and renewed glory. Says Sir Theodore Morison: "No Mohammedan believes that Islamic
civilization is dead or incapable of further development. They recognize that it has fallen
on evil days; that it has suffered from an excessive veneration of the past, from prejudice
and bigotry and narrow scholasticism not unlike that which obscured European thought in the
Middle Ages; but they believe that Islam too is about to have its Renaissance, that it is receiving
from Western learning a stimulus which will quicken it into fresh activity, and that the evidences
of this new life are everywhere manifest."[64]

Sir Theodore Morison describes the attitude of Moslem liberals. How Pan-Islamists with anti-Western
sentiments feel is well set forth by an Egyptian, Yahya Siddyk, in his well-known book, The
Awakening of the Islamic Peoples in the Fourteenth Century of the Hegira.[65] The book is doubly
interesting because the author has a thorough Western education, holding a law degree from
the French university of Toulouse, and is a judge on the Egyptian bench. Although, writing
nearly a decade before the cataclysm, Yahya Siddyk clearly foresaw the imminence of the European
War. "Behold," he writes, "these Great Powers ruining themselves in terrifying armaments; measuring
each other's strength with defiant glances; menacing each other; contracting alliances which
continually break and which presage those terrible shocks which overturn the world and cover
it with ruins, fire, and blood! The future is God's, and nothing is lasting save His Will."

Yahya Siddyk considers the Western world degenerate. "Does this mean," he asks, "that Europe,
our 'enlightened guide,' has already reached the summit of its evolution? Has it already exhausted
its vital force by two or three centuries of hyperexertion? In other words: is it already stricken
with senility, and will it see itself soon obliged to yield its civilizing rôle to other peoples
less degenerate, less neurasthenic, that is to say, younger, more robust, more healthy, than
itself? In my opinion, the present marks Europe's apogee, and its immoderate colonial expansion
means, not strength, but weakness. Despite the aureole of so much grandeur, power, and glory,
Europe is to-day more divided and more fragile than ever, and ill conceals its malaise, its
sufferings, and its anguish. Its destiny is inexorably working out!...

"The contact of Europe on the East has caused us both much good and much evil: good, in the
material and intellectual sense; evil, from the moral and political point of view. Exhausted
by long struggles, enervated by a brilliant civilization, the Moslem peoples inevitably fell
into a malaise; but they are not stricken, they are not dead! These peoples, conquered by the
force of cannon, have not in the least lost their unity, even under the oppressive régimes
to which the Europeans have long subjected them....

"I have said that the European contact has been salutary to us from both the material and intellectual
point of view. What reforming Moslem princes wished to impose by force on their Moslem subjects
is to-day realized a hundredfold. So great has been our progress in the last twenty-five years
in science, letters, and art that we may well hope to be in all these things the equals of
Europe in less than half a century....

"A new era opens for us with the fourteenth century of the Hegira, and this happy century will
mark our Renaissance and our great future! A new breath animates the Mohammedan peoples of
all races; all Moslems are penetrated with the necessity of work and instruction! We all wish
to travel, do business, tempt fortune, brave dangers. There is in the East, among the Mohammedans,
a surprising activity, an animation, unknown twenty-five years ago. There is to-day a real
public opinion throughout the East."

The author concludes: "Let us hold firm, each for all, and let us hope, hope, hope! We are
fairly launched on the path of progress: let us profit by it! It is Europe's very tyranny which
has wrought our transformation! It is our continued contact with Europe that favours our evolution
and inevitably hastens our revival! It is simply history repeating itself; the Will of God
fulfilling itself despite all opposition and all resistance.... Europe's tutelage over Asiatics
is becoming more and more nominal--the gates of Asia are closing against the European! Surely
we glimpse before us a revolution without parallel in the world's annals. A new age is at hand!"

If this was the way Pan-Islamists were thinking in the opening years of the century, it is
clear that their views must have been confirmed and intensified by the Great War.[66] The material
power of the West was thereby greatly reduced, while its prestige was equally sapped by the
character of the peace settlement and by the attendant disputes which broke out among the victors.
The mutual rivalries and jealousies of England, France, Italy, and their satellites in the
East have given Moslems much food for hopeful thought, and have caused corresponding disquietude
in European minds. A French publicist recently admonished his fellow Europeans that "Islam
does not recognize our colonial frontiers," and added warningly, "the great movement of Islamic
union inaugurated by Djemal-ed-Din el-Afghani is going on."[67]

The menacing temper of Islam is shown by the furious agitation which has been going on for
the last three years among India's 70,000,000 Moslems against the dismemberment of the Ottoman
Empire. This agitation is not confined to India. It is general throughout Islam, and Sir Theodore
Morison does not overstate the case when he says: "It is time the British public realized the
gravity of what is happening in the East. The Mohammedan world is ablaze with anger from end
to end at the partition of Turkey. The outbreaks of violence in centres so far remote as Kabul
and Cairo are symptoms only of this widespread resentment. I have been in close touch with
Mohammedans of India for close upon thirty years and I think it is my duty to warn the British
public of the passionate resentment which Moslems feel at the proposed dismemberment of the
Turkish Empire. The diplomats at Versailles apparently thought that outside the Turkish homelands
there is no sympathy for Turkey. This is a disastrous blunder. You have but to meet the Mohammedan
now in London to realize the white heat to which their anger is rising. In India itself the
whole of the Mohammedan community from Peshawar to Arcot is seething with passion upon this
subject. Women inside the Zenanas are weeping over it. Merchants who usually take no interest
in public affairs are leaving their shops and counting-houses to organize remonstrances and
petitions; even the mediæval theologians of Deoband and the Nadwatul-Ulama, whose detachment
from the modern world is proverbial, are coming from their cloisters to protest against the
destruction of Islam."[68]

Possibly the most serious aspect of the situation is that the Moslem liberals are being driven
into the camp of political Pan-Islamism. Receptive though the liberals are to Western ideas,
and averse though they are to Pan-Islamism's chauvinistic, reactionary tendencies, Europe's
intransigeance is forcing them to make at least a temporary alliance with the Pan-Islamic and
Nationalist groups, even though the liberals know that anything like a holy war would dig a
gulf between East and West, stop the influx of Western stimuli, favour reactionary fanaticism,
and perhaps postpone for generations a modernist reformation of Islam.

Perhaps it is symptomatic of a more bellicose temper in Islam that the last few years have
witnessed the rapid spread of two new puritan, fanatic movements--the Ikhwan and the Salafîya.
The Ikhwan movement began obscurely about ten years ago in inner Arabia--the Nejd. It is a
direct outgrowth of Wahabism, from which it differs in no essential respect. So rapid has been
Ikhwanism's progress that it to-day absolutely dominates the entire Nejd, and it is headed
by desert Arabia's most powerful chieftain, Bin Saud, a descendant of the Saud who headed the
Wahabi movement a hundred years ago. The fanaticism of the Ikhwans is said to be extraordinary,
while their programme is the old Wahabi dream of a puritan conversion of the whole Islamic
world.[69] As for the Salafî movement, it started in India even more obscurely than Ikhwanism
did in Arabia, but during the past few years it has spread widely through Islam. Like Ikhwanism,
it is puritanical and fanatical in spirit, its adherents being found especially among dervish
organizations.[70] Such phenomena, taken with everything else, do not augur well for the peace
of the East.

So much for Pan-Islamism's religious and political sides. Now let us glance at its commercial
and industrial aspects--at what may be called economic Pan-Islamism.

Economic Pan-Islamism is the direct result of the permeation of Western ideas. Half a century
ago the Moslem world was economically still in the Middle Ages. The provisions of the sheriat,
or Moslem canon law, such as the prohibition of interest rendered economic life in the modern
sense impossible. What little trade and industry did exist was largely in the hands of native
Christians or Jews. Furthermore, the whole economic life of the East was being disorganized
by the aggressive competition of the West. Europe's political conquest of the Moslem world
was, in fact, paralleled by an economic conquest even more complete. Everywhere percolated
the flood of cheap, abundant European machine-made goods, while close behind came European
capital, temptingly offering itself in return for loans and concessions which, once granted,
paved the way for European political domination.

Yet in economics as in politics the very completeness of Europe's triumph provoked resistance.
Angered and alarmed by Western exploitation, Islam frankly recognized its economic inferiority
and sought to escape from its subjection. Far-sighted Moslems began casting about for a modus
vivendi with modern life that would put Islam economically abreast of the times. Western methods
were studied and copied. The prohibitions of the sheriat were evaded or quietly ignored.

The upshot has been a marked evolution toward Western economic standards. This evolution is
of course still in its early stages, and is most noticeable in lands most exposed to Western
influences like India, Egypt, and Algeria. Yet everywhere in the Moslem world the trend is
the same. The details of this economic transformation will be discussed in the chapter devoted
to economic change. What we are here concerned with is its Pan-Islamic aspect. And that aspect
is very strong. Nowhere does Islam's innate solidarity come out better than in the economic
field. The religious, cultural, and customary ties which bind Moslem to Moslem enable Mohammedans
to feel more or less at home in every part of the Islamic world, while Western methods of transit
and communication enable Mohammedans to travel and keep in touch as they never could before.
New types of Moslems--wholesale merchants, steamship owners, business men, bankers, even factory
industrialists and brokers--are rapidly evolving; types which would have been simply unthinkable
a century, or even half a century, ago.

And these new men understand each other perfectly. Bound together both by the ties of Islamic
fraternity and by the pressure of Western competition, they co-ordinate their efforts much
more easily than politicals have succeeded in doing. Here liberals, Pan-Islamists, and nationalists
can meet on common ground. Here is no question of political conspiracies, revolts, or holy
wars, challenging the armed might of Europe and risking bloody repression or blind reaction.
On the contrary, here is merely a working together of fellow Moslems for economic ends by business
methods which the West cannot declare unlawful and dare not repress.

What, then, is the specific programme of economic Pan-Islamism? It is easily stated: the wealth
of Islam for Moslems. The profits of trade and industry for Moslem instead of Christian hands.
The eviction of Western capital by Moslem capital. Above all, the breaking of Europe's grip
on Islam's natural resources by the termination of concessions in lands, mines, forests, railways,
custom-houses, by which the wealth of Islamic lands is to-day drained away to foreign shores.

Such are the aspirations of economic Pan-Islamism. They are wholly modern concepts, the outgrowth
of those Western ideas whose influence upon the Moslem world I shall now discuss.[71]

FOOTNOTES:

[25] Islam has not only won much ground in India, Brahmanism's homeland, but has also converted
virtually the entire populations of the great islands of Java and Sumatra, where Brahmanism
was formerly ascendant.

[26] The small Parsi communities of India, centring in Bombay, are the sole surviving representatives
of Zoroastrianism. They were founded by Zoroastrian refugees after the Mohammedan conquest
of Persia in the seventh century A.D.

[27] Though Mecca is forbidden to non-Moslems, a few Europeans have managed to make the Hajj
in disguise, and have written their impressions. Of these, Snouck Hurgronje's Mekka (2 vols.,
The Hague, 1888) and Het Mekkaansche Feest (Leiden, 1889) are the most recent good works. Also
see Burton and Burckhardt. A recent account of value from the pen of a Mohammedan liberal is:
Gazanfar Ali Khan, With the Pilgrims to Mecca; The Great Pilgrimage of A. H. 1319 (A.D. 1902),
with an Introduction by Arminius Vambéry (London, 1905).

[28] The Shiite Persians of course refused to recognize any Sunnite or orthodox caliphate;
while the Moors pay spiritual allegiance to their own Shereefian sultans.

[29] The Turkish name for Constantinople.

[31] Literally, "he who is guided aright."

[32] "Seyid" means "Lord." This title is borne only by descendants of the Prophet.

[33] The explorer Dr. Nachtigal.

[34] On the Islamic fraternities in general and the Sennussiya in particular see W. S. Blunt,
The Future of Islam (London, 1882); O. Depont and X. Coppolani, Les Confréries réligieuses
musulmanes (Paris, 1897); H. Duveyrier, La Confrérie musulmane de Sidi Mohammed ben Ali es
Sénoussi (Paris, 1884); A. Le Chatelier, Les Confréries musulmanes du Hedjaz (Paris, 1887);
L. Petit, Confréries musulmanes (Paris, 1899); L. Rinn, Marabouts et Khouan (Algiers, 1884);
A. Servier, Le Nationalisme musulman (Constantine, Algeria, 1913); Simian, Les Confréries islamiques
en Algérie (Algiers, 1910); Achmed Abdullah (himself a Sennussi), "The Sennussiyehs," The Forum,
May, 1914; A. R. Colquhoun, "Pan-Islam," North American Review, June, 1906; T. R. Threlfall,
"Senussi and His Threatened Holy War," Nineteenth Century, March, 1900; Captain H. A. Wilson,
"The Moslem Menace," Nineteenth Century and After, September, 1907; ... "La Puissance de l'Islam:
Ses Confréries Réligieuses," Le Correspondant, 25 November and 10 December, 1909. The above
judgments, particularly regarding the Sennussiya, vary greatly, some being highly alarmist,
others minimizing its importance. A full balancing of the entire subject is that of Commandant
Binger, "Le Péril de l'Islam," Bulletin du Comité de l'Afrique française, 1902. Personal interviews
of educated Moslems with El Sennussi are Si Mohammed el Hechaish, "Chez les Senoussia et les
Touareg," L'Expansion Coloniale française, 1900; Muhammad ibn Utman, Voyage au Pays des Sénoussia
à travers la Tripolitaine (translated from the Arabic), Paris, 1903.

[37] D. A. Forget, L'Islam et le Christianisme dans l'Afrique centrale, p. 65 (Paris, 1900).
For other statements regarding Moslem missionary activity in Africa, see G. Bonet-Maury, L'Islamisme
et le Christianisme en Afrique (Paris, 1906); E. W. Blyden, Christianity, Islam, and the Negro
Race (London, 1887); Forget, op. cit.

[38] A. Guérinot, "L'Islam et l'Abyssinie," Revue du Monde musulman, 1918. Also see similar
opinion of the Protestant missionary K. Cederquist, "Islam and Christianity in Abyssinia,"
The Moslem World, April, 1921.

[39] S. Brobovnikov, "Moslems in Russia," The Moslem World, January, 1911.

[40] Broomhall, Islam in China (London, 1910); Nigârèndé, "Notes sur les Musulmans Chinois,"
Revue du Monde musulman, January, 1907; paper on Islam in China in The Mohammedan World To-day
(London, 1906).

[41] See papers on Islam in Java and Sumatra in The Mohammedan World To-day (London, 1906);
A. Cabaton, Java, Sumatra, and the Dutch East Indies (translated from the Dutch), New York, 1916.

[42] Quoted from article by "X," "Le Pan-Islamisme et le Pan-Turquisme," Revue du Monde musulman,
March, 1913. This authoritative article is, so the editor informs us, from the pen of an eminent
Mohammedan--"un homme d'étât musulman." For other activities of Djemal-ed-Din, see A. Servier,
Le Nationalisme musulman, pp. 10-13.

[43] Quoted from W. G. Palgrave, Essays on Eastern Questions, p. 111 (London, 1872).

[44] A. Vambéry, Western Culture in Eastern Lands, p. 351 (London, 1906).

[45] Abdul Hamid's Pan-Islamic schemes were first clearly discerned by the French publicist
Gabriel Charmes as early as 1881, and his warnings were published in his prophetic book L'Avenir
de la Turquie--Le Panislamisme (Paris, 1883).

[46] Gabriel Hanotaux, "La Crise méditerranéenne et l'Islam," Revue Hebdomadaire, April 13, 1912.

[47] See "X," "La Situation politique de la Perse," Revue du Monde musulman, June, 1914; B.
Temple, "The Place of Persia in World-Politics," Proceedings of the Central Asian Society,
May 4, 1910; W. M. Shuster, The Strangling of Persia (New York, 1912).

[48] Quoted from A. Vambéry, "Die türkische Katastrophe und die Islamwelt," Deutsche Revue,
July, 1913.

[49] Shah Mohammed Naimatullah, "Recent Turkish Events and Moslem India," Asiatic Review, October,
1913.

[50] Quoted by F. Farjanel, "Le Japon et l'Islam," Revue du Monde musulman, November, 1906.

[51] Farjanel, supra.

[52] Quoted by Vambéry, supra.

[53] Vambéry, "An Approach between Moslems and Buddhists," Nineteenth Century and After, April,
1912.

[55] Special cable to the New York Times, dated Rome, May 28, 1919.

[56] Sir T. Morison, "England and Islam," Nineteenth Century and After, July, 1919.

[57] H. H. The Aga Khan, India in Transition, p. 158 (London, 1918).

[58] This hatred of Western civilization, as such, will be discussed in the next chapter.

[59] Ernst Paraquin, formerly Ottoman lieutenant-colonel and chief of general staff, in the
Berliner Tageblatt, January 24, 1920.

[60] A. Vambéry, La Turquie d'aujourd'hui et d'avant Quarante Ans, pp. 71, 72 (Paris, 1898).

[61] A. Servier, Le Nationalisme musulman, p. 182.

[63] L. Rinn, Marabouts et Khouan, p. vi.

[64] Sir T. Morison, "England and Islam," op. cit.

[65] Yahya Siddyk, Le Reveil des Peuples islamiques au quatorzième Siècle de l'Hégire (Cairo,
1907). Also published in Arabic.

[66] For a full discussion of the effect of the Great War upon Asiatic and African peoples,
see my book The Rising Tide of Colour against White World-Supremacy (New York and London, 1920).

[67] L. Massignon, "L'Islam et la Politique des Alliés," Revue des Sciences politiques, June, 1920.

[68] Sir T. Morison, "England and Islam," op. cit.

[69] For the Ikhwan movement, see P. W. Harrison, "The Situation in Arabia," Atlantic Monthly,
December, 1920; S. Mylrea, "The Politico-Religious Situation in Arabia," The Moslem World,
July, 1919.

[70] For the Salafî movement, see "Wahhabisme--Son Avenir sociale et le Mouvement salafî,"
Revue du Monde musulman, 1919.

CHAPTER III

THE INFLUENCE OF THE WEST

The influence of the West is the great dynamic in the modern transformation of the East. The
ubiquitous impact of Westernism is modifying not merely the Islamic world but all non-Moslem
Asia and Africa,[72] and in subsequent pages we shall examine the effects of Western influence
upon the non-Moslem elements of India. Of course Western influence does not entirely account
for Islam's recent evolution. We have already seen that, for the last hundred years, Islam
itself has been engendering forces which, however quickened by external Western stimuli, are
essentially internal in their nature, arising spontaneously and working toward distinctive,
original goals. It is not a mere copying of the West that is to-day going on in the Moslem
world, but an attempt at a new synthesis--an assimilation of Western methods to Eastern ends.
We must always remember that the Asiatic stocks which constitute the bulk of Islam's followers
are not primitive savages like the African negroes or the Australoids, but are mainly peoples
with genuine civilizations built up by their own efforts from the remote past. In view of their
historic achievements, therefore, it seems safe to conclude that in the great ferment now stirring
the Moslem world we behold a real Renaissance, whose genuineness is best attested by the fact
that there have been similar movements in former times.

The modern influence of the West on the East is quite unprecedented in both intensity and scope.
The far more local, partial influence of Greece and Rome cannot be compared to it. Another
point to be noted is that this modern influence of the West upon the East is a very recent
thing. The full impact of Westernism upon the Orient as a whole dates only from about the middle
of the nineteenth century. Since then, however, the process has been going on by leaps and
bounds. Roads and railways, posts and telegraphs, books and papers, methods and ideas, have
penetrated, or are in process of penetrating, every nook and cranny of the East. Steamships
sail the remotest seas. Commerce drives forth and scatters the multitudinous products of Western
industry among the remotest peoples. Nations which only half a century ago lived the life of
thirty centuries ago, to-day read newspapers and go to business in electric tram-cars. Both
the habits and thoughts of Orientals are being revolutionized. To a discussion of the influence
of the West upon the Moslem world the remainder of this book will be devoted. The chief elements
will be separately analysed in subsequent chapters, the present chapter being a general survey
of an introductory character.

The permeation of Westernism is naturally most advanced in those parts of Islam which have
been longest under Western political control. The penetration of the British "Raj" into the
remotest Indian jungles, for example, is an extraordinary phenomenon. By the coinage, the post-office,
the railroads, the administration of justice, the encouragement of education, the relief of
famine, and a thousand other ways, the great organization has penetrated all India. But even
in regions where European control is still nominal, the permeation of Westernism has gone on
apace. The customs and habits of the people have been distinctly modified. Western material
improvements and comforts like the kerosene-oil lamp and the sewing-machine are to-day part
and parcel of the daily life of the people. New economic wants have been created; standards
of living have been raised; canons of taste have been altered.[73]

In the intellectual and spiritual fields, likewise, the leaven of Westernism is clearly apparent.
We have already seen how profoundly Moslem liberal reformers have been influenced by Western
ideas and the spirit of Western progress. Of course in these fields Westernism has progressed
more slowly and has awakened much stronger opposition than it has on the material plane. Material
innovations, especially mechanical improvements, comforts, and luxuries, make their way much
faster than novel customs or ideas, which usually shock established beliefs or ancestral prejudices.
Tobacco was taken up with extraordinary rapidity by every race and clime, and the kerosene-lamp
has in half a century penetrated the recesses of Central Asia and of China; whereas customs
like Western dress and ideas like Western education encounter many setbacks and are often adopted
with such modifications that their original spirit is denatured or perverted. The superior
strength and skill of the West are to-day generally admitted throughout the East, but in many
quarters the first receptivity to Western progress and zeal for Western ideas have cooled or
have actually given place to a reactionary hatred of the very spirit of Western civilization.[74]

Western influences are most apparent in the upper and middle classes, especially in the Western-educated
intelligentsia which to-day exists in every Eastern land. These élites of course vary greatly
in numbers and influence, but they all possess a more or less definite grasp of Western ideas.
In their reactions to Westernism they are sharply differentiated. Some, while retaining the
fundamentals of their ancestral philosophy of life, attempt a genuine assimilation of Western
ideals and envisage a higher synthesis of the spirits of East and West. Others break with their
traditional pasts, steep themselves in Westernism, and become more or less genuinely Westernized.
Still others conceal behind their Western veneer disillusionment and detestation.[75]

Of course it is in externals that Westernization is most pronounced. The Indian or Turkish
"intellectual," holding Western university degrees and speaking fluently several European languages,
and the wealthy prince or pasha, with his motor-cars, his racing-stables, and his annual "cure"
at European watering-places, appear very Occidental to the casual eye. Such men wear European
clothes, eat European food, and live in houses partly or wholly furnished in European style.
Behind this façade exists every possible variation of inner life, from earnest enthusiasm for
Western ideals to inveterate reaction.

These varied attitudes toward Westernism are not parked off by groups or localities, they co-exist
among the individuals of every class and every land in the East. The entire Orient is, in fact,
undergoing a prodigious transformation, far more sudden and intense than anything the West
has ever known. Our civilization is mainly self-evolved; a natural growth developing by normal,
logical, and relatively gradual stages. The East, on the contrary, is undergoing a concentrated
process of adaptation which, with us, was spread over centuries, and the result is not so much
evolution as revolution--political, economic, social, idealistic, religious, and much more
besides. The upshot is confusion, uncertainty, grotesque anachronism, and glaring contradiction.
Single generations are sundered by unbridgeable mental and spiritual gulfs. Fathers do not
understand sons; sons despise their fathers. Everywhere the old and the new struggle fiercely,
often within the brain or spirit of the same individual. The infinite complexity of this struggle
as it appears in India is well summarized by Sir Valentine Chirol when he speaks of the many
"currents and cross-currents of the confused movement which is stirring the stagnant waters
of Indian life--the steady impact of alien ideas on an ancient and obsolescent civilization;
the more or less imperfect assimilation of those ideas by the few; the dread and resentment
of them by those whose traditional ascendancy they threaten; the disintegration of old beliefs,
and then again their aggressive revival; the careless diffusion of an artificial system of
education, based none too firmly on mere intellectualism, and bereft of all moral or religious
sanction; the application of Western theories of administration and of jurisprudence to a social
formation stratified on lines of singular rigidity; the play of modern economic forces upon
primitive conditions of industry and trade; the constant and unconscious but inevitable friction
between subject races and their alien rulers; the reverberation of distant wars and distant
racial conflicts; the exaltation of an Oriental people in the Far East."[76] These lines, though
written about India, apply with fair exactitude to every other portion of the Near and Middle
East to-day. As a French writer remarks with special reference to the Levant: "The truth is
that the Orient is in transformation, and the Mohammedan mentality as well--though not perhaps
exactly as we might wish. It is undergoing a period of crisis, wherein the past struggles everywhere
against the present; where ancient customs, impaired by modern innovations, present a hybrid
and disconcerting spectacle."[77]

To this is largely due the unlovely traits displayed by most of the so-called "Westernized"
Orientals; the "stucco civilization"[78] of the Indian Babu, and the boulevardier "culture"
of the Turkish "Effendi"--syphilized rather than civilized. Any profound transformation must
engender many worthless by-products, and the contemporary Westernization of the Orient has
its dark as well as its bright side. The very process of reform, however necessary and inevitable,
lends fresh virulence to old ills and imports new evils previously unknown. As Lord Cromer
says: "It is doubtful whether the price which is being paid for introducing European civilization
into these backward Eastern societies is always recognized as fully as it should be. The material
benefits derived from European civilization are unquestionably great, but as regards the ultimate
effect on public and private morality the future is altogether uncertain."[79]

The good and the evil of Westernization are alike mostly clearly evident among the ranks of
the educated élites. Some of these men show the happiest effects of the Western spirit, but
an even larger number fall into the gulf between old and new, and there miserably perish. Lord
Cromer characterized many of the "Europeanized" Egyptians as "at the same time de-Moslemized
Moslems and invertebrate Europeans";[80] while another British writer thus pessimistically
describes the superficial Europeanism prevalent in India: "Beautiful Mogul palaces furnished
with cracked furniture from Tottenham Court Road. That is what we have done to the Indian mind.
We have not only made it despise its own culture and throw it out; we have asked it to fill
up the vacant spaces with furniture which will not stand the climate. The mental Eurasianism
of India is appalling. Such minds are nomad. They belong to no civilization, no country, and
no history. They create a craving that cannot be satisfied, and ideals that are unreal. They
falsify life. They deprive men of the nourishment of their cultural past, and the substitutes
they supply are unsubstantial.... We sought to give the Eastern mind a Western content and
environment; we have succeeded too well in establishing intellectual and moral anarchy in both."[81]

These patent evils of Westernization are a prime cause of that implacable hatred of everything
Western which animates so many Orientals, including some well acquainted with the West. Such
persons are precious auxiliaries to the ignorant reactionaries and to the rebels against Western
political domination.

The political predominance of the West over the East is, indeed, the outstanding factor in
the whole question of Western influence upon the Orient. We have already surveyed Europe's
conquest of the Near and Middle East during the past century, and we have seen how helpless
the backward, decrepit Moslem world was in face of the twofold tide of political and economic
subjugation. In fact, the economic phase was perhaps the more important factor in the rapidity
and completeness of Europe's success. To be sure, some Eastern lands were subjugated at a stroke
by naked military force, as in the French expedition to Algiers, the Russian conquest of central
Asia, and the Italian descent upon Tripoli. Much oftener, however, subjection began by the
essentially economic process known as "pacific penetration"--the acquirement of a financial
grip upon a hitherto independent Oriental country by Western capital in the form of loans and
concessions, until the assumption of Western political control became little more than a formal
registration of what already existed in fact. Such is the story of the subjection of Egypt,
Morocco, and Persia, while England's Indian Empire started in a purely trading venture--the
East India Company. The tremendous potency of "pacific penetration" is often not fully appreciated.
Take the significance of one item alone--railway concessions. Says that keen student of Weltpolitik,
Doctor Dillon: "Railways are the iron tentacles of latter-day expanding Powers. They are stretched
out caressingly at first. But once the iron has, so to say, entered the soul of the weaker
nation, the tentacles swell to the dimensions of brawny arms, and the embrace tightens to a
crushing grip."[82]

On the question of the abstract rightness or wrongness of this subjection of the East by the
West, I do not propose to enter. It has been exhaustively discussed, pro and con, and every
reader of these pages is undoubtedly familiar with the stock arguments on both sides. The one
thing certain is that this process of subjugation was, broadly speaking, inevitable. Given
two worlds at such different levels as East and West at the beginning of the nineteenth century--the
West overflowing with vitality and striding at the forefront of human progress, the East sunk
in lethargy and decrepitude--and it was a foregone conclusion that the former would encroach
upon the latter.

What does concern us in our present discussion is the effect of European political control
upon the general process of Westernization in Eastern lands. And there can be no doubt that
such Westernization was thereby greatly furthered. Once in control of an Oriental country,
the European rulers were bound to favour its Westernization for a variety of reasons. Mere
self-interest impelled them to make the country peaceful and prosperous, in order to extract
profit for themselves and reconcile the inhabitants to their rule. This meant the replacement
of inefficient and sanguinary native despotisms inhibiting progress and engendering anarchy
by stable colonial governments, maintaining order, encouraging industry, and introducing improvements
like the railway, the post, sanitation, and much more besides. In addition to these material
innovations, practically all the Western governments endeavoured to better the social, intellectual,
and spiritual condition of the peoples that had come under their control. The European Powers
who built up colonial empires during the nineteenth century were actuated by a spirit far more
enlightened than that of former times, when the early colonial empires of Spain, Portugal,
Holland, and the English East India Company had been run on the brutal and short-sighted doctrine
of sheer exploitation. In the nineteenth century all Western rule in the Orient was more or
less impregnated with the ideal of "The White Man's Burden." The great empire-builders of the
nineteenth century, actuated as they were not merely by self-interest and patriotic ambition
but also by a profound sense of obligation to improve the populations which they had brought
under their country's sway, felt themselves bearers of Western enlightenment and laboured to
diffuse all the benefits of Western civilization. They honestly believed that the extension
of Western political control was the best and quickest, perhaps the only, means of modernizing
the backward portions of the world.

That standpoint is ably presented by a British "liberal imperialist," Professor Ramsay Muir,
who writes: "It is an undeniable fact that the imperialism of the European peoples has been
the means whereby European civilization has been in some degree extended to the whole world,
so that to-day the whole world has become a single economic unit, and all its members are parts
of a single political system. And this achievement brings us in sight of the creation of a
world-order such as the wildest dreamers of the past could never have anticipated. Without
the imperialism of the European peoples North and South America, Australia, South Africa, must
have remained wildernesses, peopled by scattered bands of savages. Without it India and other
lands of ancient civilization must have remained, for all we can see, externally subject to
that endless succession of wars and arbitrary despotisms which have formed the substance of
their history through untold centuries, and under which neither rational and equal law nor
political liberty, as we conceive them, were practicable conceptions. Without it the backward
peoples of the earth must have continued to stagnate under the dominance of an unchanging primitive
customary régime, which has been their state throughout recorded time. If to-day the most fruitful
political ideas of the West--the ideas of nationality and self-government--which are purely
products of Western civilization, are beginning to produce a healthy fermentation in many parts
of the non-European world, that result is due to European Imperialism."[83]

The ethics of modern imperialism have nowhere been better formulated than in an essay by Lord
Cromer. "An imperial policy," he writes, "must, of course, be carried out with reasonable prudence,
and the principles of government which guide our relations with whatsoever races are brought
under our control must be politically and economically sound and morally defensible. This is,
in fact, the keystone of the imperial arch. The main justification of imperialism is to be
found in the use which is made of imperial power. If we make good use of our power, we may
face the future without fear that we shall be overtaken by the Nemesis which attended Roman
misrule. If the reverse is the case, the British Empire will deserve to fall, and of a surety
it will ultimately fall."[84]

Such are the basic sanctions of Western imperialism as evolved during the nineteenth century.
Whether or not it is destined to endure, there can be no question that this prodigious extension
of European political control greatly favoured the spread of Western influences of every kind.
It is, of course, arguable that the East would have voluntarily adopted Western methods and
ideas even if no sort of Western pressure had been applied. But they would have been adopted
much more slowly, and this vital element of time renders such arguments mere academic speculation.
For the vital, expanding nineteenth-century West to have deliberately restrained itself while
the backward East blunderingly experimented with Westernism, accepting and rejecting, buying
goods and refusing to pay for them, negotiating loans and then squandering and repudiating
them, inviting in Europeans and then expelling or massacring them, would have been against
all history and human nature.

As a matter of fact, Western pressure was applied, as it was bound to be applied; and this
constant, ubiquitous, unrelenting pressure, broke down the barriers of Oriental conservatism
and inertia as nothing else could have done, forced the East out of its old ruts, and compelled
it to take stock of things as they are in a world of hard facts instead of reminiscent dreams.
In subsequent chapters we shall examine the manifold results of this process which has so profoundly
transformed the Orient during the past hundred years. Here we will continue our general survey
by examining the more recent aspects of Western control over the East and the reactions of
the East thereto.

In my opinion, the chief fallacy involved in criticisms of Western control over Eastern lands
arises from failure to discriminate between nineteenth-century and twentieth-century imperialism.
Nineteenth-century imperialism was certainly inevitable, and was apparently beneficial in the
main. Twentieth-century imperialism cannot be so favourably judged. By the year 1900 the Oriental
peoples were no longer mere fanatical obscurantists neither knowing nor caring to know anything
outside the closed circle of their ossified, decadent civilizations. The East had been going
to school, and wanted to begin to apply what it had been taught by the West. It should have
been obvious that these peoples, whose past history proved them capable of achievement and
who were now showing an apparently genuine desire for new progress, needed to be treated differently
from what they had been. In other words, a more liberal attitude on the part of the West had
become advisable.

But no such change was made. On the contrary, in the West itself, the liberal idealism which
had prevailed during most of the nineteenth century was giving way to that spirit of fierce
political and economic rivalry which culminated in the Great War.[85] Never had Europe been
so avid for colonies, for "spheres of influence," for concessions and preferential markets;
in fine, so "imperialistic," in the unfavourable sense of the term. The result was that with
the beginning of the twentieth century Western pressure on the East, instead of being relaxed,
was redoubled; and the awakening Orient, far from being met with sympathetic consideration,
was treated more ruthlessly than it had been for two hundred years. The way in which Eastern
countries like Turkey and Persia, striving to reform themselves and protect their independence,
were treated by Europe's new Realpolitik would have scandalized the liberal imperialists of
a generation before. It certainly scandalized present-day liberals, as witness these scathing
lines written in 1912 by the well-known British publicist Sidney Low:

"The conduct of the Most Christian Powers during the past few years has borne a striking resemblance
to that of robber-bands descending upon an unarmed and helpless population of peasants. So
far from respecting the rights of other nations, they have exhibited the most complete and
cynical disregard for them. They have, in fact, asserted the claim of the strong to prey upon
the weak, and the utter impotence of all ethical considerations in the face of armed force,
with a crude nakedness which few Eastern military conquerors could well have surpassed.

"The great cosmic event in the history of the last quarter of a century has been the awakening
of Asia after centuries of somnolence. The East has suddenly sprung to life, and endeavoured
to throw itself vigorously into the full current of Western progress. Japan started the enterprise;
and, fortunately for herself, she entered upon it before the new Western policy had fully developed
itself, and while certain archaic ideals about the rights of peoples and the sanctity of treaties
still prevailed. When the new era was inaugurated by the great Japanese statesmen of the nineteenth
century, Europe did not feel called upon to interfere. We regarded the Japanese renaissance
with interest and admiration, and left the people of Nippon to work out the difficulties of
their own salvation, unobstructed. If that revolution had taken place thirty years later, there
would probably have been a different story to tell; and New Japan, in the throes of her travail,
would have found the armed Great Powers at her bedside, each stretching forth a mailed fist
to grab something worth taking. Other Eastern countries which have endeavoured to follow the
example of Japan during the present century have had worse luck. During the past ten years
a wave of sheer materialism and absolute contempt for international morality has swept across
the Foreign Offices of Europe, and has reacted disastrously upon the various Eastern nations
in their desperate struggles to reform a constitutional system. They have been attempting to
carry out the suggestions made to them for generations by benevolent advisers in Christendom.

"Now, when they take these counsels to heart, and endeavour, with halting steps, and in the
face of immense obstacles, to pursue the path of reform, one might suppose that their efforts
would be regarded with sympathetic attention by the Governments of the West; and that, even
if these offered no direct aid, they would at least allow a fair trial." But, on the contrary,
"one Great Power after another has used the opportunity presented by the internal difficulties
of the Eastern countries to set out upon a career of annexation."[86]

We have already seen how rapid was this career of annexation, extinguishing the independence
of the last remaining Mohammedan states at the close of the Great War. We have also seen how
it exacerbated Moslem fear and hatred of the West. And the West was already feared and hated
for many reasons. In the preceding chapter we traced the growth of the Pan-Islamic movement,
and in subsequent chapters we shall trace the development of Oriental nationalism. These politico-religious
movements, however, by no means exhaust the list of Oriental reactions to Westernism. There
are others, economic, social, racial in character. In view of the complex nature of the Orient's
reaction against Westernism, let us briefly analyse the problem in its various constituent
elements.

Anti-Western feeling has been waning in some quarters and waxing in others during the past
hundred years. By temperamental reactionaries and fanatics things Western have, of course,
always been abhorred. But, leaving aside this intransigeant minority, the attitude of other
categories of Orientals has varied greatly according to times and circumstances. By liberal-minded
persons Western influences were at first hailed with cordiality and even with enthusiasm. In
the opening chapter we saw how the liberal reformers welcomed the Western concept of progress
and made it one of the bases of their projected religious reformation. And the liberals displayed
the same attitude in secular matters. The liberal statesmen who governed Turkey during the
third quarter of the nineteenth century made earnest efforts to reform the Ottoman State, and
it was the same in other parts of the Moslem world. An interesting example is the attempt made
by General Kheir-ed-Din to modernize Tunis. This man, a Circassian by birth, had won the confidence
of his master, the Bey, who made him vizier. In 1860 he toured Europe and returned greatly
impressed with its civilization. Convinced of Europe's infinite superiority, he desired passionately
to transplant Western ideas and methods to Tunis. This he believed quite feasible, and the
result would, so he thought, be Tunis's rapid regeneration. Kheir-ed-Din was not in the least
a hater of the West. He merely recognized clearly the Moslem world's peril of speedy subjection
to the West if it did not set its house rapidly in order, and he therefore desired, in a perfectly
legitimate feeling of patriotism, to press his country along the road of progress, that it
might be able to stand alone and preserve its independence.

So greatly was the Bey impressed by Kheir-ed-Din's report that he gave him a free hand in his
reforming endeavours. For a short time Kheir-ed-Din displayed great activity, though he encountered
stubborn opposition from reactionary officials. His work was cut short by his untimely death,
and Tunis, still unmodernized, fell twenty years later under the power of France. Kheir-ed-Din,
however, worked for posterity. In order to rouse his compatriots to the realities of their
situation he published a remarkable book, The Surest Means of Knowing the State of Nations.
This book has profoundly influenced both liberals and nationalists throughout the Near East,
especially in North Africa, where it has become the bible of Tunisian and Algerian nationalism.
In his book Kheir-ed-Din shows his co-religionists the necessity of breaking with their attitude
of blind admiration for the past and proud indifference to everything else, and of studying
what is going on in the outer world. Europe's present prosperity is due, he asserts, not to
natural advantages or to religion, but "to progress in the arts and sciences, which facilitate
the circulation of wealth and exploit the treasures of the earth by an enlightened protection
constantly given to agriculture, industry, and commerce: all natural consequences of justice
and liberty--two things which, for Europeans, have become second nature." In past ages the
Moslem world was great and progressive, because it was then liberal and open to progress. It
declined through bigotry and obscurantism. But it can revive by reviving the spirit of its
early days.

I have stressed the example of the Tunisian Kheir-ed-Din rather than the better-known Turkish
instances because it illustrates the general receptivity of mid-nineteenth-century Moslem liberals
to Western ideas and their freedom from anti-Western feeling.[87] As time passed, however,
many of these erstwhile liberals, disillusioned with the West for various reasons, notably
European aggression, became the bitterest enemies of the West, hating the very spirit of Western
civilization.[88]

This anti-Western feeling has, of course, been greatly exacerbated since the beginning of the
present century. As an influential Mohammedan wrote just before the Great War: "The events
of these last ten years and the disasters which have stricken the Mohammedan world have awakened
in its bosom a sentiment of mutual cordiality and devotion hitherto unknown, and a unanimous
hatred against all its oppressors has been the ferment which to-day stirs the hearts of all
Moslems."[89] The bitter rancour seething in many Moslem hearts shows in outbursts like the
following, from the pen of a popular Turkish writer at the close of the Balkan Wars: "We have
been defeated, we have been shown hostility by the outside world, because we have become too
deliberative, too cultured, too refined in our conceptions of right and wrong, of humanity
and civilization. The example of the Bulgarian army has taught us that every soldier facing
the enemy must return to the days of barbarism, must have a thirst of blood, must be merciless
in slaughtering children and women, old and weak, must disregard others' property, life, and
honour. Let us spread blood, suffering, wrong, and mourning. Thus only may we become the favourites
of the civilized world like King Ferdinand's army."[90]

The Great War itself was hailed by multitudes of Moslems as a well-merited Nemesis on Western
arrogance and greed. Here is how a leading Turkish newspaper characterized the European Powers:
"They would not look at the evils in their own countries or elsewhere, but interfered at the
slightest incident in our borders; every day they would gnaw at some part of our rights and
our sovereignty; they would perform vivisection on our quivering flesh and cut off great pieces
of it. And we, with a forcibly controlled spirit of rebellion in our hearts and with clinched
but powerless fists, silent and depressed, would murmur as the fire burned within: 'Oh, that
they might fall out with one another! Oh, that they might eat one another up!' And lo! to-day
they are eating each other up, just as the Turk wished they would."[91]

Such anti-Western sentiments are not confined to journalists or politicians, they are shared
by all classes, from princes to peasants. Each class has its special reasons for hating European
political control. The native princes, even when maintained upon their thrones and confirmed
in their dignities and emoluments, bitterly resent their state of vassalage and their loss
of limitless, despotic power. "Do you know, I can hardly buy a pen or a sword for myself without
asking the Resident for permission?" remarked an Indian rajah bitterly. His attitude was precisely
that of Khedive Tewfik Pasha, who, in the early days of the British occupation of Egypt, while
watching a review of British troops, said to one of his ministers: "Do you suppose I like this?
I tell you, I never see an English sentinel in my streets without longing to jump out of my
carriage and strangle him with my own hands."[92] The upper classes feel much the same as their
sovereigns. They regret their former monopoly of privilege and office. This is especially true
of the Western-educated intelligentsia, who believe that they should hold all government posts
and resent bitterly the reservation of high-salaried directive positions for Europeans. Of
course many intelligent liberals realize so fully the educative effect of European control
that they acquiesce in a temporary loss of independence in order to complete their modernization
and ultimately be able to stand alone without fear of reaction or anarchy. However, these liberals
are only a small minority, hated by their upper-class fellows as time-servers and renegades,
and sundered by an immense gulf from the ignorant masses.

At first sight we might think that the masses would, on the whole, be favourably disposed toward
European political control. Despite certain economic disadvantages that Westernization has
imposed, the masses have unquestionably gained most by European rule. Formerly exploited ruthlessly
by both princes and upper classes, the peasants and town workers are to-day assured peace,
order, justice, and security for their landholdings and the fruits of their toil. Now it would
be a mistake to think that the masses are insensible to all this. The fact is, they do recognize
the benefits of European rule. Nevertheless, the new rulers, while tolerated and even respected,
are never beloved. Furthermore, as the generation which knew the old régime dies off, its evils
are forgotten, and the younger generation, taking present benefits for granted, murmurs at
the flaws in the existing order, and lends a readier ear to native agitators extolling the
glories of independence and idealizing the "good old times."

The truth of the matter is that, despite all its shortcomings, the average Oriental hankers
after the old way of life. Even when he recognizes the good points of the new, he nevertheless
yearns irrationally for the old. "A Moslem ruler though he oppress me and not a kafir[93] though
he work me weal" is a Moslem proverb of long standing. Every colonial administration, no matter
how enlightened, runs counter to this ineradicable aversion of Moslems for Christian rule.
A Russian administrator in Central Asia voices the sentiments of European officials generally
when he states: "Pious Moslems cannot accommodate themselves to the government of Giaours."[94]

Furthermore, it must be remembered that most Orientals either do not recognize much benefit
in European rule, or, even though they do recognize considerable benefits, consider these more
than offset by many points which, in their eyes, are maddening annoyances or burdens. The very
things which we most pride ourselves on having given to the Orient--peace, order, justice,
security--are not valued by the Oriental anywhere near as highly as we might expect. Of course
he likes these things, but he would prefer to get less of them if what he did get was given
by native rulers, sharing his prejudices and point of view. Take the single factor of justice.
As an English writer remarks: "The Asiatic is not delighted with justice per se; indeed, the
Asiatic really cares but little about it if he can get sympathy in the sense in which he understands
that misunderstood word.... This is the real reason why every Asiatic in his heart of hearts
prefers the rule of his own nationality, bad though it be, to the most ideal rule of aliens.
For when he is ruled by his own countrymen, he is dealt with by people who understand his frailties,
and who, though they may savagely punish him, are at least in sympathy with the motives which
prompt his delinquencies."[95]

Take again the matter of order. The average Oriental not only does not appreciate, but detests,
our well-regulated, systematic manner of life. Accustomed as he has been for centuries to a
slipshod, easygoing existence, in which, if there was much injustice, there was also much favouritism,
he instinctively hates things like sanitary measures and police regulations. Accustomed to
a wide "personal liberty" in the anarchic sense, he is not willing to limit this liberty for
the common weal. He wants his own way, even though it involves possible dangers to himself--dangers
which may always be averted by bribery, favouritism, or violence. Said an American who had
listened to a Filipino's glowing words on independence: "What could you do, if you were independent,
that you cannot do now?" "I could build my house there in the middle of the street, if I wanted
to." "But suppose your neighbour objected and interfered?" "I would 'get' him." "But suppose
he 'got' you?" A shrug of the shoulders was the only answer.[96]

The fact is that the majority of Orientals, despite the considerable penetration of Western
ideas and methods that has been going on for the last century, still love their old ruts and
hate to be budged out of them. They realize that Western rule furthers more than anything else
the Westernization of their social system, their traditional manner of life, and they therefore
tend to react fanatically against it. Every innovation imposed by the colonial authorities
is apt to rouse the most purblind resistance. For example, compulsory vaccination was bitterly
opposed for years by the natives of Algeria. The French officials pointed out that smallpox,
hitherto rampant, was being rapidly extirpated. The natives replied that, in their opinion,
it was merely a crafty scheme for sterilizing them sexually and thus make room for French colonists.
The officials thereupon pointed to the census figures, which showed that the natives were increasing
at an unprecedented rate. The natives merely shrugged their shoulders and continued to inveigh
against the innovation.

This whole matter has been well summarized by a French writer with a wide knowledge of Mohammedan
lands. Says Louis Bertrand:

"In reality, all these peoples, indisposed as they are by their traditions, customs, and climates
to live according to our social ideal, hate to endure the constraint of our police, of our
administration--in a word, of any sort of regulated government, no matter how just and honest.
Delivered from the most anarchic and vexatious of tyrannies, they remain in spirit more or
less like our vagabonds, always hoping to escape from the gendarmes. In vain do we point out
to the Arabs of North Africa that, thanks to the protection of France, they are no longer pillaged
by Turkish despots nor massacred and tortured by rival tribes. They see only one thing: the
necessity of paying taxes for matters that they do not understand. We shall never realize the
rage, the fury, aroused in our Algerian towns by the simple health department ordinance requiring
the emptying of a garbage-can at a fixed hour. At Cairo and elsewhere I have observed the same
rebellious feelings among the donkey-boys and cab-drivers subjected to the regulations of the
English policeman.

"But it is not merely our municipal and administrative regulations which they find insupportable;
it is all our habits, taken en bloc--in a word, the order which regulates our civilized life.
For instance: on the railway-line from Jaffa to Jerusalem the train stops at a station beside
which stands the tomb of a holy man. The schedule calls for a stop of a minute at most. But
no sooner had we arrived than what was my stupefaction to see all the Mohammedans on the train
get off, spread their prayer-rugs, and tranquilly begin their devotions. The station-master
blew his whistle, the conductor yelled at them that he was going to leave them behind; nobody
budged. A squad of railway employees had to be mobilized, who, with blows and curses, finally
bundled these pious persons back into the train again. The business lasted a good quarter of
an hour, and was not easy. The more vigorous of the worshippers put up an energetic resistance.

"The above is only a casual instance, chosen at random. What is certain is that these peoples
do not yet understand what we mean by exactitude, and that the concept of a well-regulated
existence has not yet penetrated their heads."[97]

What has just been written of course applies primarily to the ignorant masses. But this attitude
of mind is more or less common to all classes of Oriental peoples. The habits of centuries
are not easily transformed. In fact, it must not be forgotten that the upper classes were able
to enjoy most fully the capricious personal liberty of the unmodified East, and that, therefore,
though they may be better able to understand the value of Westernization, they have in one
sense the most to lose.[98]

In fact, for all Orientals, high and low alike, the "good old times" had charms which they
mournfully regret. For the prince, the pasha, the courtier, existence was truly an Oriental
paradise. To be sure, the prince might at any moment be defeated and slain by a rival monarch;
the pasha strangled at his master's order; the courtier tortured through a superior's whim.
But, meanwhile, it was "life," rich and full. "Each of these men had his own character and
his own renown among his countrymen, and each enjoyed a position such as is now unattainable
in Europe, in which he was released from laws, could indulge his own fancies, bad or good,
and was fed every day and all day with the special flattery of Asia--that willing submissiveness
to mere volition which is so like adoration, and which is to its recipients the most intoxicating
of delights. Each, too, had his court of followers, and every courtier shared in the power,
the luxury, and the adulation accruing to his lord. The power was that of life and death; the
luxury included possession of every woman he desired; the adulation was, as I have said, almost
religious worship."[99]

But, it may be asked, what about the poor man, exploited by this hierarchy of capricious despots?
What had he to gain from all this? Well, in most cases, he got nothing at all; but he might
gain a great deal. Life in the old Orient was a gigantic lottery. Any one, however humble,
who chanced to please a great man, might rise to fame and fortune at a bound. And this is just
what pleases the Eastern temperament; for in the East, "luck" and caprice are more prized than
the "security" cherished in the West. In the Orient the favourite stories are those narrating
sudden and amazing shifts of fortune--beggars become viziers or viziers become beggars, and
all in a single night. To the majority of Orientals it is still the uncertainties of life,
and the capricious favour of the powerful, which make it most worth living; not the sure reward
of honesty and well-regulated labour. All these things made the life of the Orient infinitely
interesting to all. And it is precisely this gambler's interest which Westernization has more
or less destroyed. As an English writer very justly remarks à propos of modern Egypt: "Our
rule may be perfect, but the East finds it dull. The old order was a ragged garment, but it
was gay. Its very vicissitude had a charm. 'Ah! yes,' said an Egyptian to a champion of English
rule, 'but in the old days a beggar might sit at the gate, and if he were found pleasing in
the eyes of a great lady, he might be a great man on the morrow.' There is a natural and inevitable
regret for the gorgeous and perilous past, when favour took the place of justice, and life
had great heights and depths--for the Egypt of Joseph, Haroun-al-Rashid, and Ismail Pasha.
We have spread the coat of broadcloth over the radiant garment."[100]

Saddened and irritated by the threatened loss of so much that they hold dear, it is not strange
that many Eastern conservatives glorify the past as a sort of Golden Age, infinitely superior
to anything the West can produce, and in this they are joined by many quondam liberals, disillusioned
with Westernism and flying into the arms of reaction. The result is a spirit of hatred against
everything Western, which sometimes assumes the most extravagant forms. Says Louis Bertrand:
"During a lecture that I attended at Cairo the speaker contended that France owed Islam (1)
its civilization and sciences; (2) half of its vocabulary; (3) all that was best in the character
and mentality of its population, seeing that, from the Middle Ages to the Revolution of 1789,
all the reformers who laboured for its enfranchisement--Albigensians, Vaudois, Calvinists,
and Camisards--were probably descendants of the Saracens. It was nothing less than the total
annexation of France to Morocco." Meanwhile, "it has become the fashion for fervent (Egyptian)
nationalists to go to Spain and meditate in the gardens of the Alcazar of Seville or in the
patios of the Alhambra of Granada on the defunct splendours of western Islam."[101]

Even more grotesque are the rhapsodies of the Hindu wing of this Golden Age school. These Hindu
enthusiasts far outdo the wildest flights of their Moslem fellows. They solemnly assert that
Hindustan is the nursery and home of all true religion, philosophy, culture, civilization,
science, invention, and everything else; and they aver that when India's present regrettable
eclipse is past (an eclipse of course caused entirely by English rule) she is again to shine
forth in her glory for the salvation of the whole world. Employing to the full the old adage
that there is nothing new under the sun, they have "discovered" in the Vedas and other Hindu
sacred texts "irrefutable" evidence that the ancient Hindu sages anticipated all our modern
ideas, including such up-to-date matters as bomb-dropping aeroplanes and the League of Nations.[102]

All this rhapsodical laudation of the past will, in the long run, prove futile. The East, like
the West, has its peculiar virtues; but the East also has its special faults, and it is the
faults which, for the last thousand years, have been gaining on the virtues, resulting in backwardness,
stagnation, and inferiority. To-day the East is being penetrated--and quickened--by the West.
The outcome will never be complete Westernization in the sense of a mere wholesale copying
and absolute transformation; the East will always remain fundamentally itself. But it will
be a new self, the result of a true assimilation of Western ideas. The reactionaries can only
delay this process, and thereby prolong the Orient's inferiority and weakness.

Nevertheless, the reactionary attitude, though unintelligent, is intelligible. Westernization
hurts too many cherished prejudices and vested interests not to arouse chronic resistance.
This resistance would occur even if Western influences were all good and Westerners all angels
of light. But of course Westernization has its dark side, while our Western culture-bearers
are animated not merely by altruism, but also by far less worthy motives. This strengthens
the hand of the Oriental reactionaries and lends them the cover of moral sanctions. In addition
to the extremely painful nature of any transformative process, especially in economic and social
matters, there are many incidental factors of an extremely irritating nature.

To begin with, the mere presence of the European, with his patent superiority of power and
progress, is a constant annoyance and humiliation. This physical presence of the European is
probably as necessary to the Orient's regeneration as it is inevitable in view of the Orient's
present inferiority. But, however beneficial, it is none the less a source of profound irritation.
These Europeans disturb everything, modify customs, raise living standards, erect separate
"quarters" in the cities, where they form "extraterritorial" colonies exempt from native law
and customary regulation. An English town rises in the heart of Cairo, a "Little Paris" eats
into Arabesque Algiers, while European Pera flaunts itself opposite Turkish Stambul.

As for India, it is dotted with British "enclaves". "The great Presidency towns, Calcutta,
Bombay, Madras, are European cities planted on Indian soil. All the prominent buildings are
European, though in some of the more recent ones an endeavour has been made to adopt what is
known as the 'Indo-Saracenic' style of architecture. For the rest, the streets are called by
English names, generally the names of bygone viceroys and governors, or of the soldiers who
conquered the land and quelled the mutiny--heroes whose effigies meet you at every turn. The
shops are English shops, where English or Eurasian assistants traffic in English goods. English
carriages and motors bowl along the macadamized or tarred roads of Old England. On every hand
there is evidence of the instinctive effort to reproduce, as nearly as the climate will permit,
English conditions of life.... Almost the whole life of the people of India is relegated to
the back streets, not to say the slums--frankly called in Madras the Black Town. There are
a few points--clubs and gymkhanas specially established to that end--where Englishmen, and
even women, meet Indian men, and even women, of the wealthier classes, on a basis of social
equality. But few indeed are the points of contact between the Asian town and the European
city which has been superimposed upon it. The missionary, the Salvation Army outpost, perhaps
the curiosity-hunting tourist, may go forth into the bazaars; but the European community as
a whole cares no more for the swarming brown multitudes around it than the dwellers on an island
care for the fishes in the circumambient sea."[103] And what is true of the great towns holds
good for scores of provincial centres, "stations," and cantonments. The scale may be smaller,
but the type is the same.

The European in the Orient is thus everywhere profoundly an alien, living apart from the native
life. And the European is not merely an aloof alien; he is a ruling alien as well. Always his
attitude is that of the superior, the master. This attitude is not due to brutality or snobbery;
it is inherent in the very essence of the situation. Of course many Europeans have bad manners,
but that does not change the basic reality of the case. And this reality is that, whatever
the future may bring, the European first established himself in the Orient because the West
was then infinitely ahead of the East; and he is still there to-day because, despite all recent
changes, the East is still behind the West. Therefore the European in the Orient is still the
ruler, and so long as he stays there must continue to rule--justly, temperately, with politic
regard for Eastern progress and liberal devolution of power as the East becomes ripe for its
liberal exercise--but, nevertheless, rule. Wherever the Occidental has established his political
control, there are but two alternatives: govern or go. Furthermore, in his governing, the Occidental
must rule according to his own lights; despite all concessions to local feeling, he must, in
the last analysis, act as a Western, not as an Eastern, ruler. Lord Cromer voices the heart
of all true colonial government when he says: "In governing Oriental races the first thought
must be what is good for them, but not necessarily what they think is good for them."[104]

Now all this is inevitable, and should be self-evident. Nevertheless, the fact remains that
even the most enlightened Oriental can hardly regard it as other than a bitter though salutary
medicine, while most Orientals feel it to be humiliating or intolerable. The very virtues of
the European are prime causes of his unpopularity. For, as Meredith Townsend well says: "The
European is, in Asia, the man who will insist on his neighbour doing business just after dinner,
and being exact when he is half-asleep, and being 'prompt' just when he wants to enjoy,--and
he rules in Asia and is loved in Asia accordingly."[105]

Furthermore, the European in the Orient is disliked not merely as a ruler and a disturber,
but also as a man of widely different race. This matter of race is very complicated,[106] but
it cuts deep and is of fundamental importance. Most of the peoples of the Near and Middle East
with which our present discussion is concerned belong to what is known as the "brown" category
of the human species. Of course, in strict anthropology, the term is inexact. Anthropologically,
we cannot set off a sharply differentiated group of "brown" types as a "brown race," as we
can set off the "white" types of Europe as a "white race" or the "yellow" Mongoloid types of
the Far East as a "yellow race." This is because the Near and Middle East have been racially
a vast melting-pot, or series of melting-pots, wherein conquest and migration have continually
poured new heterogeneous elements, producing the most diverse ethnic amalgamations. Thus to-day
some of the Near and Middle Eastern peoples are largely white, like the Persians and Ottoman
Turks; others, like the southern Indians and Yemenite Arabs, are largely black; while still
others, like the Himalayan and Central Asian peoples, have much yellow blood. Again, as there
is no brown racial type-norm, as there are white and yellow type-norms, so there is no generalized
brown culture like those possessed by yellows and whites. The great brown spiritual bond is
Islam, yet in India, the chief seat of brown population, Islam is professed by only one-fifth
of the inhabitants. Lastly, while the spiritual frontiers of the Moslem world coincide mainly
with the ethnic frontiers of the brown world, Islam overlaps at several points, including some
pure whites in eastern Europe, many true yellows in the Far East, and multitudes of negroes
in Africa.

Nevertheless, despite these partial modifications, the terms "brown race" and "brown world"
do connote genuine realities which science and politics alike recognize to be essentially true.
There certainly is a fundamental comity between the brown peoples. This comity is subtle and
intangible in character; yet it exists, and under certain circumstances it is capable of momentous
manifestations. Its salient feature is the instinctive recognition by all Near and Middle Eastern
peoples that they are fellow "Asiatics," however bitter may be their internecine feuds. This
instinctive "Asiatic" feeling has been noted by historians for more than two thousand years,
and it is true to-day as in the past.

The great racial divisions of mankind are the most fundamental, the most permanent, the most
ineradicable things in human experience. They are not mere diverse colorations of skin. Matters
like complexion, stature, and hair-formation are merely the outward, visible symbols of correlative
mental and spiritual differences which reveal themselves in sharply contrasted temperaments
and view-points, and which translate themselves into the infinite phenomena of divergent group-life.

Now it is one of these basic racial lines of cleavage which runs between "East" and "West."
Broadly speaking, the Near and Middle East is the "brown world," and this differentiates it
from the "white world" of the West in a way which never can be really obliterated. Indeed,
to attempt to obliterate the difference by racial fusion would be the maddest of follies. East
and West can mutually quicken each other by a mutual exchange of ideas and ideals. They can
only harm each other by transfusions of blood. To unite physically would be the greatest of
disasters. East and West have both given much to the world in the past, and promise to give
more in the future. But whatever of true value they are to give can be given only on condition
that they remain essentially themselves. Ethnic fusion would destroy both their race-souls
and would result in a dreary mongrelization from which would issue nothing but degeneration
and decay.

Both East and West instinctively recognize the truth of this, and show it by their common contempt
for the "Eurasian"--the mongrel offspring of unions between the two races. As Meredith Townsend
well says: "The chasm between the brown man and the white is unfathomable, has existed in all
ages, and exists still everywhere. No white man marries a brown wife, no brown man marries
a white wife, without an inner sense of having been false to some unintelligible but irresistible
command."[107]

The above summary of the political, economic, social, and racial differences between East and
West gives us a fair idea of the numerous cross-currents which complicate the relations of
the two worlds and which hinder Westernization. The Westernizing process is assuredly going
on, and in subsequent chapters we shall see how far-reaching is its scope. But the factors
just considered will indicate the possibilities of reaction and will roughly assign the limits
to which Westernization may ultimately extend.

One thing is certain: Western political control in the Orient, however prolonged and however
imposing in appearance, must ever rest on essentially fragile foundations. The Western rulers
will always remain an alien caste; tolerated, even respected, perhaps, but never loved and
never regarded as anything but foreigners. Furthermore, Western rule must necessarily become
more precarious with the increasing enlightenment of the subject peoples, so that the acquiescence
of one generation may be followed by the hostile protest of the next. It is indeed an unstable
equilibrium, hard to maintain and easily upset.

The latent instability of European political control over the Near and Middle East was dramatically
shown by the moral effect of the Russo-Japanese War. Down to that time the Orient had been
so helpless in face of European aggression that most Orientals had come to regard Western supremacy
with fatalistic resignation. But the defeat of a first-class European Power by an Asiatic people
instantly broke the spell, and all Asia and Africa thrilled with a wild intoxication which
we can scarcely conceive. A Scotch missionary thus describes the effect of the Japanese victories
on northern India, where he was stationed at the time: "A stir of excitement passed over the
north of India. Even the remote villagers talked over the victories of Japan as they sat in
their circles and passed round the huqqa at night. One of the older men said to me, 'There
has been nothing like it since the mutiny'. A Turkish consul of long experience in Western
Asia told me that in the interior you could see everywhere the most ignorant peasants 'tingling'
with the news. Asia was moved from end to end, and the sleep of the centuries was finally broken.
It was a time when it was 'good to be alive,' for a new chapter was being written in the book
of the world's history."[108]

Of course the Russo-Japanese War did not create this new spirit, whose roots lay in the previous
epoch of subtle changes that had been going on. The Russo-Japanese War was thus rather the
occasion than the cause of the wave of exultant self-confidence which swept over Asia and Africa
in the year 1904. But it did dramatize and clarify ideas that had been germinating half-unconsciously
in millions of Oriental minds, and was thus the sign manual of the whole nexus of forces making
for a revivified Orient.

Furthermore, this new temper profoundly influenced the Orient's attitude toward the series
of fresh European aggressions which then began. It is a curious fact that just when the Far
East had successfully resisted European encroachment, the Near and Middle East should have
been subjected to European aggressions of unparalleled severity. We have already noted the
furious protests and the unwonted moral solidarity of the Moslem world at these manifestations
of Western Realpolitik. It would be interesting to know exactly how much of this defiant temper
was due to the heartening example of Japan. Certainly our ultra-imperialists of the West were
playing a dangerous game during the decade between 1904 and 1914. As Arminius Vambéry remarked
after the Italian raid on Tripoli: "The more the power and authority of the West gains ground
in the Old World, the stronger becomes the bond of unity and mutual interest between the separate
factions of Asiatics, and the deeper burns the fanatical hatred of Europe. Is it wise or expedient
by useless provocation and unnecessary attacks to increase the feeling of animosity, to hurry
on the struggle between the two worlds, and to nip in the bud the work of modern culture which
is now going on in Asia?"[109]

The Great War of course immensely aggravated an already critical situation. The Orient suddenly
saw the European peoples, who, in racial matters, had hitherto maintained something like solidarity,
locked in an internecine death-grapple of unparalleled ferocity; it saw those same peoples
put one another furiously to the ban as irreconcilable foes; it saw white race-unity cleft
by moral and political gulfs which white men themselves continuously iterated would never be
filled. The one redeeming feature of the struggle, in Oriental eyes, was the liberal programme
which the Allied statesmen inscribed upon their banners. But when the war was over and the
Allies had won, it promptly leaked out that at the very time when the Allied leaders were making
their liberal speeches they had been negotiating a series of secret treaties partitioning the
Near East between them in a spirit of the most cynical imperialism; and in the peace conferences
that closed the war it was these secret treaties, not the liberal speeches, which determined
the Oriental settlement, resulting (on paper at least) in the total subjugation of the Near
and Middle East to European political control.

The wave of wrath which thereupon rolled over the East was not confined to furious remonstrance
like the protests of pre-war days. There was a note of immediate resistance and rebellion not
audible before. This rebellious temper has translated itself into warlike action which has
already forced the European Powers to abate some of their extreme pretensions and which will
undoubtedly make them abate others in the near future. The details of this post-war unrest
will be discussed in later chapters. Suffice it to say here that the Great War has shattered
European prestige in the East and has opened the eyes of Orientals to the weaknesses of the
West. To the Orient the war was a gigantic course of education. For one thing, millions of
Orientals and negroes were taken from the remotest jungles of Asia and Africa to serve as soldiers
and labourers in the White Man's War. Though the bulk of these auxiliaries were used in colonial
operations, more than a million of them were brought to Europe itself. Here they killed white
men, raped white women, tasted white luxuries, learned white weaknesses--and went home to tell
their people the whole story.[110] Asia and Africa to-day know Europe as they never knew it
before, and we may be sure that they will make use of their knowledge. The most serious factor
in the situation is that the Orient realizes that the famous Versailles "Peace" which purports
to have pacified Europe is no peace, but rather an unconstructive, unstatesmanlike futility
that left old sores unhealed and even dealt fresh wounds. Europe to-day lies debilitated and
uncured, while Asia and Africa see in this a standing incitement to rash dreams and violent action.

Such is the situation to-day: an East, torn by the conflict between new and old, facing a West
riven with dissension and sick from its mad follies. Probably never before have the relations
between the two worlds contained so many incalculable, even cataclysmic, possibilities. The
point to be here noted is that this strange new East which now faces us is mainly the result
of Western influences permeating it in unprecedented fashion for the past hundred years. To
the chief elements in that permeation let us now turn.

[74] For the effect of the West intellectually and spiritually, see Vambéry, op. cit.; Sir
Valentine Chirol, Indian Unrest (London, 1910); J. N. Farquhar, Modern Religious Movements
in India (New York, 1915); Rev. J. Morrison, New Ideas in India: A Study of Social, Political,
and Religious Developments (Edinburgh, 1906); the Earl of Cromer, Modern Egypt, especially
Vol. II., pp. 228-243 (London, 1908).

[76] Chirol, op. cit., pp 321-322.

[77] Bertrand, op. cit., p 39. See also Bukhsh, op. cit.; Farquhar, op. cit.; Morrison, op.
cit.; R. Mukerjee, The Foundations of Indian Economics (London, 1916); D. H. Dodwell, "Economic
Transition in India," Economic Journal, December, 1910.

[78] W. S. Lilly, India and Its Problems, p. 243 (London, 1902).

[79] Cromer, op. cit., Vol. II., p. 231.

[80] Ibid., p. 228.

[81] J. Ramsay Macdonald, The Government of India, pp. 171-172 (London, 1920). On the evils
of Westernization, see further: Bukhsh, Cromer, Dodwell, Mukerjee, already cited; Sir W. M.
Ramsay, "The Turkish Peasantry of Anatolia," Quarterly Review, January, 1918; H. M. Hyndman,
The Awakening of Asia (New York, 1919); T. Rothstein, Egypt's Ruin (London, 1910); Captain
P. Azan, Recherche d'une Solution de la Question indigène en Algérie (Paris, 1903).

[82] E. J. Dillon, "Persia," Contemporary Review, June, 1910.

[83] Ramsay Muir, "Europe and the Non-European World," The New Europe, June 28, 1917.

[84] The Earl of Cromer, Political and Literary Essays, p. 5 (London, 1913).

[85] For a full discussion of these changes in Western ideas, see my Rising Tide of Colour
against White World-Supremacy, especially chaps. vi. and vii.

[86] Sidney Low, "The Most Christian Powers," Fortnightly Review, March, 1912.

[87] On this point see also A. Vambéry, Western Culture in Eastern Lands (London, 1906); W.
S. Blunt, The Future of Islam (London, 1882); also the two articles by Léon Cahun on intellectual
and social developments in the Islamic world during the nineteenth century in Lavisse et Rambaud,
Histoire Générale, Vol. XI., chap. xv.; Vol. XII., chap. xiv.

[88] See A. Vambéry, Der Islam im neunzehnten Jahrhundert, chap. vi. (Leipzig, 1875). As already
stated, the editor vouches for this anonymous writer as a distinguished Mohammedan official--"un
homme d'étât musulman."

[90] Ahmed Emin, The Development of Modern Turkey as Measured by Its Press, p. 108 (Columbia
University Ph.D. Thesis, New York, 1914).

[91] The Constantinople Tanine. Quoted from The Literary Digest, October 24, 1914, p. 784.
This attitude toward the Great War and the European Powers was not confined to Mohammedan peoples;
it was common to non-white peoples everywhere. For a survey of this feeling throughout the
world, see my Rising Tide of Colour against White World-Supremacy, pp. 13-16.

[92] Both the above instances are taken from C. S. Cooper, The Modernizing of the Orient, pp.
339-340 (New York, 1914).

[93] An "Unbeliever"--in other words, a Christian.

[94] Quoted by A. Woeikof, Le Turkestan russe (Paris, 1914).

[95] B. L. Putnam Weale, The Conflict of Colour, p. 193 (London, 1910).

[96] Quoted from H. H. Powers, The Great Peace, p. 82 (New York, 1918).

[97] L. Bertrand, Le Mirage oriental, pp. 441-442 (Paris, 1910).

[98] On this point see the very interesting essay by Meredith Townsend entitled "The Charm
of Asia for Asiatics," in his book Asia and Europe, pp. 120-128.

[99] Townsend, op. cit., p. 104.

[100] H. Spender, "England, Egypt, and Turkey," Contemporary Review, October, 1906.

[101] Bertrand, pp. 209, 210.

[102] For discussion of this Hindu attitude see W. Archer, India and the Future (London, 1918);
Young and Ferrers, India in Conflict (London, 1920). Also see Hindu writings of this nature:
H. Maitra, Hinduism: The World-Ideal (London, 1916); A. Coomaraswamy, The Dance of Siva (New
York, 1918); M. N. Chatterjee, "The World and the Next War," Journal of Race Development, April,
1916.

[103] Archer, pp. 11, 12.

[104] Cromer, Political and Literary Essays, p. 25.

[105] Townsend, Asia and Europe, p. 128.

[106] I have dealt with it at length in my Rising Tide of Colour against White World-Supremacy.

[107] Townsend, p. 97.

[108] Rev. C. F. Andrews, The Renaissance in India, p. 4 (London, 1911).

[110] For the effect of the war on Asia and Africa, see A. Demangeon, Le Déclin de l'Europe
(Paris, 1920); H. M. Hyndman, The Awakening of Asia (New York, 1919); E. D. Morel, The Black
Man's Burden (New York, 1920); F. B. Fisher, India's Silent Revolution (New York, 1919); also,
my Rising Tide of Color against White World-Supremacy.

CHAPTER IV

POLITICAL CHANGE

The Orient's chief handicap has been its vicious political tradition. From earliest times the
typical form of government in the East has been despotism--the arbitrary rule of an absolute
monarch, whose subjects are slaves, holding their goods, their honours, their very lives, at
his will and pleasure. The sole consistent check upon Oriental despotism has been religion.
Some critics may add "custom"; but it amounts to the same thing, for in the East custom always
acquires a religious sanction. The mantle of religion of course covers its ministers, the priests
forming a privileged caste. But, with these exceptions, Oriental despotism has usually known
no bounds; and the despot, so long as he respected religion and the priesthood, has been able
to act pretty much as he chose. In the very dawn of history we see Pharaoh exhausting all Egypt
to gratify his whim for a colossal pyramid tomb, and throughout history Oriental life has been
cursed by this fatal political simplicity.

Now manifold human experience has conclusively proved that despotism is a bad form of government
in the long run. Of course there is the legendary "benevolent despot"--the "father of his people,"
surrounded by wise counsellors and abolishing evils by a nod or a stroke of the pen. That is
all very well in a fairy-tale. But in real life the "benevolent despot" rarely happens and
still more rarely succeeds himself. The "father of his people" usually has a pompous son and
a vicious grandson, who bring the people to ruin. The melancholy trinity--David, Solomon, Rehoboam--has
reappeared with depressing regularity throughout history.

Furthermore, even the benevolent despot has his limitations. The trouble with all despots,
good or bad, is that their rule is entirely personal. Everything, in the last analysis, depends
on the despot's personal will. Nothing is fixed or certain. The benevolent despot himself may
discard his benevolence overnight, and the fate of an empire may be jeopardized by the monarch's
infatuation for a woman or by an upset in his digestion.

We Occidentals have, in fact, never known "despotism," in its Simon Pure, Oriental sense; not
even under the Roman Empire. Indeed, we can hardly conceive what it means. When we speak of
a benevolent despot we usually think of the "enlightened autocrats" of eighteenth-century Europe,
such as Frederick the Great. But these monarchs were not "despots" as Orientals understand
it. Take Frederick, for example. He was regarded as absolute. But his subjects were not slaves.
Those proud Prussian officers, starched bureaucrats, stiff-necked burghers, and stubborn peasants
each had his sense of personal dignity and legal status. The unquestioning obedience which
they gave Frederick was given not merely because he was their king, but also because they knew
that he was the hardest-working man in Prussia and tireless in his devotion to the state. If
Frederick had suddenly changed into a lazy, depraved, capricious tyrant, his "obedient" Prussians
would have soon showed him that there were limits to his power.

In the Orient it is quite otherwise. In the East "there lies upon the eyes and foreheads of
all men a law which is not found in the European decalogue; and this law runs: 'Thou shalt
honour and worship the man whom God shall set above thee for thy King: if he cherish thee,
thou shalt love him; and if he plunder and oppress thee thou shalt still love him, for thou
art his slave and his chattel.'"[111] The Eastern monarch may immure himself in his harem,
casting the burdens of state upon the shoulders of a grand vizier. This vizier has thenceforth
limitless power; the life of every subject is in his hands. Yet, any evening, at the pout of
a dancing-girl, the monarch may send from his harem to the vizier's palace a negro "mute,"
armed with the bowstring. And when that black mute arrives, the vizier, doffing his robe of
office, and with neither question nor remonstrance, will bare his neck to be strangled. That
is real despotism--the despotism that the East has known.

Such is the political tradition of the Orient. And it is surely obvious that under such a tradition
neither ordered government nor consistent progress is possible. Eastern history is, in fact,
largely a record of sudden flowerings and equally sudden declines. A strong, able man cuts
his way to power in a period of confusion and decay. He must be strong and able, or he would
not win over other men of similar nature struggling for the coveted prize. His energy and ability
soon work wonders. He knows the rough-and-ready way of getting things done. His vigour and
resolution supply the driving-power required to compel his subordinates to act with reasonable
efficiency, especially since incompetence or dishonesty are punished with the terrible severity
of the Persian king who flayed an unjust satrap alive and made the skin into the seat of the
official chair on which the new satrap sat to administer justice.

While the master lives, things may go well. But the master dies, and is succeeded by his son.
This son, even assuming that he has inherited much of his father's ability, has had the worst
possible upbringing. Raised in the harem, surrounded by obsequious slaves and designing women,
neither his pride nor his passions have been effectively restrained, and he grows up a pompous
tyrant and probably precociously depraved. Such a man will not be apt to look after things
as his father did. And as soon as the master's eye shifts, things begin to go to pieces. How
can it be otherwise? His father built up no governmental machine, functioning almost automatically,
as in the West. His officers worked from fear or personal loyalty; not out of a patriotic sense
of duty or impersonal esprit de corps. Under the grandson, matters get even worse, power slips
from his incompetent hands and is parcelled out among many local despots, of whom the strongest
cuts his way to power, assuming that the decadent state is not overrun by some foreign conqueror.
In either eventuality, the old cycle--David, Solomon, Rehoboam--is finished, and a new cycle
begins--with the same destined end.

That, in a nutshell, is the political history of the East. It has, however, been modified or
temporarily interrupted by the impact of more liberal political influences, exerted sometimes
from special Eastern regions and sometimes from the West. Not all the Orient has been given
over to unrelieved despotism. Here and there have been peoples (mostly mountain or pastoral
peoples) who abhorred despotism. Such a people have always been the Arabs. We have already
seen how the Arabs, fired by Islam, established a mighty caliphate which, in its early days,
was a theocratic democracy. Of course we have also seen how the older tradition of despotism
reasserted itself over most of the Moslem world, how the democratic caliphate turned into a
despotic sultanate, and how the liberty-loving Arabs retired sullenly to their deserts. Political
liberalism, like religious liberalism, was crushed and almost forgotten. Almost--not quite;
for memories of the Meccan caliphate, like memories of Motazelism, remained in the back of
men's minds, ready to come forth again with better days. After all, free Arabia still stood,
with every Arab tribesman armed to the teeth to see that it kept free. And then, there was
Islam. No court theologian could entirely explain away the fact that Mohammed had said things
like "All Believers are brothers" and "All Moslems are free." No court chronicler could entirely
expunge from Moslem annals the story of Islam's early days, known as the Wakti-Seadet, or "Age
of Blessedness." Even in the darkest times Moslems of liberal tendencies must have been greatly
interested to read that the first caliph, Abu Bekr, after his election by the people, said:
"Oh nation! you have chosen me, the most unworthy among you, for your caliph. Support me as
long as my actions are just. If otherwise, admonish me, rouse me to a sense of my duty. Truth
alone is desirable, and lies are despicable.... As I am the guardian of the weak, obey me only
so long as I obey the Sheriat [Divine Law]. But if you see that I deviate but in the minutest
details from this law, you need obey me no more."[112]

In fine, no subsequent distortions could entirely obliterate the fact that primitive Islam
was the supreme expression of a freedom-loving folk whose religion must necessarily contain
many liberal tendencies. Even the sheriat, or canon law, is, as Professor Lybyer states, "fundamentally
democratic and opposed in essence to absolutism."[113] Vambéry well summarizes this matter
when he writes: "It is not Islam and its doctrines which have devastated the western portion
of Asia and brought about the present sad state of things; but it is the tyranny of the Moslem
princes, who have wilfully perverted the doctrines of the Prophet, and sought and found maxims
in the Koran as a basis for their despotic rule. They have not allowed the faintest suspicion
of doubt in matters of religion, and, efficaciously distorting and crushing all liberal principles,
they have prevented the dawn of a Moslem Renaissance."[114]

In the opening chapter we saw how Oriental despotism reached its evil maximum in the eighteenth
century, and how the Mohammedan Revival was not merely a puritan reformation of religion, but
was also in part a political protest against the vicious and contemptible tyrants who misruled
the Moslem world. This internal movement of political liberalism was soon cross-cut by another
political current coming in from the West. Comparing the miserable decrepitude of the Moslem
East with Europe's prosperity and vigour, thinking Moslems were beginning to recognize their
shortcomings, and they could not avoid the conclusion that their woes were in large part due
to their wretched governments. Indeed, a few even of the Moslem princes came to realize that
there must be some adoption of Western political methods if their countries were to be saved
from destruction. The most notable examples of this new type of Oriental sovereign were Sultan
Mahmud II of Turkey and Mehemet Ali of Egypt, both of whom came to power about the beginning
of the nineteenth century.

Of course none of these reforming princes had the slightest idea of granting their subjects
constitutional liberties or of transforming themselves into limited monarchs. They intended
to remain absolute, but absolute more in the sense of the "enlightened autocrat" of Europe
and less in the sense of the purely Oriental despot. What they wanted were true organs of government--army,
civil service, judiciary, etc.--which would function efficiently and semi-automatically as
governmental machinery, and not as mere amorphous masses of individuals who had to be continuously
prodded and punished by the sovereign in order to get anything done.

Mahmud II, Mehemet Ali, and their princely colleagues persisted in their new policies, but
the outcome of these "reforms from above" was, on the whole, disappointing. The monarchs might
build barracks and bureaux on European models and fill them with soldiers and bureaucrats in
European clothes, but they did not get European results. Most of these "Western-type" officials
knew almost nothing about the West, and were therefore incapable of doing things in Western
fashion. In fact, they had small heart for the business. Devoid of any sort of enthusiasm for
ideas and institutions which they did not comprehend, they applied themselves to the work of
reform with secret ill-will and repugnance, moved only by blind obedience to their sovereign's
command. As time passed, the military branches did gain some modern efficiency, but the civil
services made little progress, adopting many Western bureaucratic vices but few or none of
the virtues.

Meanwhile reformers of quite a different sort began to appear: men demanding Western innovations
like constitutions, parliaments, and other phenomena of modern political life. Their numbers
were constantly recruited from the widening circles of men acquainted with Western ideas through
the books, pamphlets, and newspapers which were being increasingly published, and through the
education given by schools on the Western model which were springing up. The third quarter
of the nineteenth century saw the formation of genuine political parties in Turkey, and in
1876 the liberal groups actually wrung from a weak sultan the grant of a parliament.

These early successes of Moslem political liberalism were, however, followed by a period of
reaction. The Moslem princes had become increasingly alarmed at the growth of liberal agitation
among their subjects and were determined to maintain their despotic authority. The new Sultan
of Turkey, Abdul Hamid, promptly suppressed his parliament, savagely persecuted the liberals,
and restored the most uncompromising despotism. In Persia the Shah repressed a nascent liberal
movement with equal severity, while in Egypt the spendthrift rule of Khedive Ismail ended all
native political life by provoking European intervention and the imposition of British rule.
Down to the Young-Turk revolution of 1908 there were few overt signs of liberal agitation in
those Moslem countries which still retained their independence. Nevertheless, the agitation
was there, working underground. Hundreds of youthful patriots fled abroad, both to obtain an
education and to conduct their liberal propaganda, and from havens of refuge like Switzerland
these "Young-Turks," "Young-Persians," and others issued manifestoes and published revolutionary
literature which was smuggled into their homelands and eagerly read by their oppressed brethren.[115]

As the years passed, the cry for liberty grew steadily in strength. A young Turkish poet wrote
at this time: "All that we admire in European culture as the fruit of science and art is simply
the outcome of liberty. Everything derives its light from the bright star of liberty. Without
liberty a nation has no power, no prosperity; without liberty there is no happiness; and without
happiness, existence, true life, eternal life, is impossible. Everlasting praise and glory
to the shining light of freedom!"[116] By the close of the nineteenth century keen-sighted
European observers noted the working of the liberal ferment under the surface calm of absolutist
repression. Thus, Arminius Vambéry, revisiting Constantinople in 1896, was astounded by the
liberal evolution that had taken place since his first sojourn in Turkey forty years before.
Although Constantinople was subjected to the severest phase of Hamidian despotism, Vambéry
wrote, "The old attachment of Turkey for the absolute régime is done for. We hear much in Europe
of the 'Young-Turk' Party; we hear even of a constitutional movement, political emigrés, revolutionary
pamphlets. But what we do not realize is the ferment which exists in the different social classes,
and which gives us the conviction that the Turk is in progress and is no longer clay in the
hands of his despotic potter. In Turkey, therefore, it is not a question of a Young-Turk Party,
because every civilized Ottoman belongs to this party."[117]

In this connection we should note the stirrings of unrest that were now rapidly developing
in the Eastern lands subject to European political control. By the close of the nineteenth
century only four considerable Moslem states--Turkey, Persia, Morocco, and Afghanistan--retained
anything like independence from European domination. Since Afghanistan and Morocco were so
backward that they could hardly be reckoned as civilized countries, it was only in Turkey and
Persia that genuine liberal movements against native despotism could arise. But in European-ruled
countries like India, Egypt, and Algeria, the cultural level of the inhabitants was high enough
to engender liberal political aspirations as well as that mere dislike of foreign rule which
may be felt by savages as well as by civilized peoples.

These liberal aspirations were of course stimulated by the movements against native despotism
in Turkey and Persia. Nevertheless, the two sets of phenomena must be sharply distinguished
from each other. The Turkish and Persian agitations were essentially movements of liberal reform.
The Indian, Egyptian, Algerian, and kindred agitations were essentially movements for independence,
with no settled programme as to how that independence should be used after it had been attained.
These latter movements are, in fact, "nationalist" rather than liberal in character, and it
is in the chapters devoted to nationalism that they will be discussed. The point to be noted
here is that they are really coalitions, against the foreign ruler, of men holding very diverse
political ideas, embracing as these "nationalist" coalitions do not merely genuine liberals
but also self-seeking demagogues and even stark reactionaries who would like to fasten upon
their liberated countries the yoke of the blackest despotism. Of course all the nationalist
groups use the familiar slogans "freedom" and "liberty"; nevertheless, what many of them mean
is merely freedom and liberty from foreign tutelage--in other words, independence. We must
always remember that patriotism has no essential connection with liberalism. The Spanish peasants,
who shouted "liberty" as they rose against Napoleon's armies, greeted their contemptible tyrant-king
with delirious enthusiasm and welcomed his glorification of absolutism with cries of "Long
live chains!"

The period of despotic reaction which had afflicted Turkey and Persia since the beginning of
the last quarter of the nineteenth century came dramatically to an end in the year 1908. Both
countries exploded into revolution, the Turks deposing the tyrant Abdul Hamid, the Persians
rising against their infamous ruler Muhammad Ali Shah, "perhaps the most perverted, cowardly,
and vice-sodden monster that had disgraced the throne of Persia in many generations."[118]
These revolutions released the pent-up liberal forces which had been slowly gathering strength
under the repression of the previous generation, and the upshot was that Turkey and Persia
alike blossomed out with constitutions, parliaments, and all the other political machinery
of the West.

How the new régimes would have worked in normal times it is profitless to speculate, because,
as a matter of fact, the times were abnormal to the highest degree. Unfortunately for the Turks
and Persians, they had made their revolutions just when the world was entering that profound
malaise which culminated in the Great War. Neither Turkey nor Persia were allowed time to attempt
the difficult process of political transformation. Lynx-eyed Western chancelleries noted every
blunder and, in the inevitable weakness of transition, pounced upon them to their undoing.
The Great War merely completed a process of Western aggression and intervention which had begun
some years before.

This virtual absence of specific fact-data renders largely academic any discussion of the much-debated
question whether or not the peoples of the Near and Middle East are capable of "self-government";
that is, of establishing and maintaining ordered, constitutional political life. Opinions on
this point are at absolute variance. Personally, I have not been able to make up my mind on
the matter, so I shall content myself with stating the various arguments without attempting
to draw any general conclusion. Before stating these contrasted view-points, however, I would
draw attention to the distinction which should be made between the Mohammedan peoples and the
non-Mohammedan Hindus of India. Moslems everywhere possess the democratic political example
of Arabia as well as a religion which, as regards its own followers at least, contains many
liberal tendencies. The Hindus have nothing like this. Their political tradition has been practically
that of unrelieved Oriental despotism, the only exceptions being a few primitive self-governing
communities in very early times, which never exerted any widespread influence and quickly faded
away. As for Brahminism, the Hindu religion, it is perhaps the most illiberal cult which ever
afflicted mankind, dividing society as it does into an infinity of rigid castes between which
no real intercourse is possible; each caste regarding all those of lesser rank as unclean,
polluting creatures, scarcely to be distinguished from animals. It is obvious that with such
handicaps the establishment of true self-government will be apt to be more difficult for Hindus
than for Mohammedans, and the reader should keep this point in mind in the discussion which
follows.

Considering first the attitude of those who do not believe the peoples of the Near and Middle
East capable of real self-government in the Western sense either now or in the immediate future,
we find this thesis both ably and emphatically stated by Lord Cromer. Lord Cromer believed
that the ancient tradition of despotism was far too strong to be overcome, at least in our
time. "From the dawn of history," he asserts, "Eastern politics have been stricken with a fatal
simplicity. Do not let us for one moment imagine that the fatally simple idea of despotic rule
will readily give way to the far more complex conception of ordered liberty. The transformation,
if it ever takes place at all, will probably be the work, not of generations, but of centuries....
Our primary duty, therefore, is, not to introduce a system which, under the specious cloak
of free institutions, will enable a small minority of natives to misgovern their countrymen,
but to establish one which will enable the mass of the population to be governed according
to the code of Christian morality. A freely elected Egyptian parliament, supposing such a thing
to be possible, would not improbably legislate for the protection of the slave-owner, if not
the slave-dealer, and no assurance can be felt that the electors of Rajputana, if they had
their own way, would not re-establish suttee. Good government has the merit of presenting a
more or less attainable ideal. Before Orientals can attain anything approaching to the British
ideal of self-government, they will have to undergo very numerous transmigrations of political
thought." And Lord Cromer concludes pessimistically: "It will probably never be possible to
make a Western silk purse out of an Eastern sow's ear."[119]

In similar vein, the veteran English publicist Doctor Dillon, writing after the Turkish and
Persian revolutions, had little hope in their success, and ridiculed the current "faith in
the sacramental virtue of constitutional government." For, he continues: "No parchment yet
manufactured, and no constitution drafted by the sons of men, can do away with the foundations
of national character. Flashy phrases and elegant declamations may persuade people that they
have been transmuted; but they alter no facts, and in Persia's case the facts point to utter
incapacity for self-government." Referring to the Persian revolution, Doctor Dillon continues:
"At bottom, only names of persons and things have been altered; men may come and men may go,
but anarchy goes on for ever.... Financial support of the new government is impossible. For
foreign capitalists will not give money to be squandered by filibusters and irresponsible agitators
who, like bubbles in boiling water, appear on the surface and disappear at once."[120]

A high French colonial official thus characterizes the Algerians and other Moslem populations
of French North Africa: "Our natives need to be governed. They are big children, incapable
of going alone. We should guide them firmly, stand no nonsense from them, and crush intriguers
and agents of sedition. At the same time, we should protect them, direct them paternally, and
especially obtain influence over them by the constant example of our moral superiority. Above
all: no vain humanitarian illusions, both in the interest of France and of the natives themselves."[121]

Many observers, particularly colonial officials, have been disappointed with the way Orientals
have used experimental first steps in self-government like Advisory Councils granted by the
European rulers; have used them, that is, to play politics and grasp for more power, instead
of devoting themselves to the duties assigned. As Lord Kitchener said in his 1913 report on
the state of Egypt: "Representative bodies can only be safely developed when it is shown that
they are capable of performing adequately their present functions, and that there is good hope
that they could undertake still more important and arduous responsibilities. If representative
government, in its simplest form, is found to be unworkable, there is little prospect of its
becoming more useful when its scope is extended. No government would be insane enough to consider
that, because an Advisory Council had proved itself unable to carry out its functions in a
reasonable and satisfactory manner, it should therefore be given a larger measure of power
and control."[122]

These nationalist agitations arise primarily among the native upper classes and Western-educated
élites, however successful they may be in inflaming the ignorant masses, who are often quite
contented with the material benefits of enlightened European rule. This point is well brought
out by a leading American missionary in India, with a lifetime of experience in that country,
who wrote some years ago: "The common people of India are, now, on the whole, more contented
with their government than they ever were before. It is the classes, rather, who reveal the
real spirit of discontent.... If the common people were let alone by the agitators, there would
not be a more loyal people on earth than the people of India. But the educated classes are
certainly possessed of a new ambition, politically, and will no longer remain satisfied with
inferior places of responsibility and lower posts of emolument.... These people have little
or no sympathy with the kind of government which is gradually being extended to them. Ultimately
they do not ask for representative institutions, which will give them a share in the government
of their own land. What they really seek is absolute control. The Brahmin (only five per cent.
of the community) believes that he has been divinely appointed to rule the country and would
withhold the franchise from all others. The Sudra--the Bourgeois of India--would no more think
of giving the ballot to the fifty million Pariahs of the land than he would give it to his
dog. It is the British power that has introduced, and now maintains, the equality of rights
and privileges for all the people of the land."[123]

The apprehension that India, if liberated from British control, might be exploited by a tyrannical
Brahmin oligarchy is shared not only by Western observers but also by multitudes of low-caste
Hindus, known collectively as the "Depressed Classes". These people oppose the Indian nationalist
agitation for fear of losing their present protection under the British "Raj." They believe
that India still needs generations of education and social reform before it is fit for "home
rule," much less independence, and they have organized into a powerful association the "Namasudra,"
which is loyalist and anti-nationalist in character.

The Namasudra view-point is well expressed by its leader, Doctor Nair. "Democracy as a catchword,"
he says, "has already reached India and is widely used. But the spirit of democracy still pauses
east of Suez, and will find it hard to secure a footing in a country where caste is strongly
intrenched.... I do not want to lay the charge of oppressing the lower castes at the door of
any particular caste. All the higher castes take a hand in the game. The Brahmin oppresses
all the non-Brahmin castes. The high-caste non-Brahmin oppresses all the castes below him....
We want a real democracy and not an oligarchy, however camouflaged by many high-sounding words.
Moreover, if an oligarchy is established now, it will be a perpetual oligarchy. We further
say that we should prefer a delayed democracy to an immediate oligarchy, having more trust
in a sympathetic British bureaucracy than in an unsympathetic oligarchy of the so-called high
castes who have been oppressing us in the past and will do so again but for the British Government.
Our attitude is based, not on 'faith' alone, but on the instinct of self-preservation."[124]

Many Mohammedans as well as Hindus feel that India is not ripe for self-government, and that
the relaxing of British authority now, or in the immediate future, would be a grave disaster
for India itself. The Moslem loyalists reprobate the nationalist agitation for the reasons
expressed by one of their representative men, S. Khuda Bukhsh, who remarks: "Rightly or wrongly,
I have always kept aloof from modern Indian politics, and I have always held that we should
devote more attention to social problems and intellectual advancement and less to politics,
which, in our present condition, is an unmixed evil. I am firmly persuaded that we would consult
our interest better by leaving politics severely alone.... It is not a handful of men armed
with the learning and culture of the West, but it is the masses that must feel, understand,
and take an intelligent interest in their own affairs. The infinitesimal educated minority
do not constitute the population of India. It is the masses, therefore, that must be trained,
educated, brought to the level of unassailable uprightness and devotion to their country. This
goal is yet far beyond measurable reach, but until we attain it our hopes will be a chimera,
and our efforts futile and illusory. Even the educated minority have scarcely cast off the
swaddling-clothes of political infancy, or have risen above the illusions of power and the
ambitions of fortune. We have yet to learn austerity of principle and rectitude of conduct.
Nor can we hope to raise the standard of private and public morality so long as we continue
to subordinate the interest of our community and country to our own."[125]

Such pronouncements as these from considerable portions of the native population give pause
even to those liberal English students of Indian affairs who are convinced of the theoretical
desirability of Indian home rule. As one of these, Edwyn Bevan, says: "When Indian Nationalists
ask for freedom, they mean autonomy; they want to get rid of the foreigner. Our answer as given
in the reforms is:[126] 'Yes, autonomy you shall have, but on one condition--that you have
democracy as well. We will give up the control as soon as there is an Indian people which can
control its native rulers; we will not give up the control to an Indian oligarchy.' This is
the root of the disagreement between those who say that India might have self-government immediately
and those who say that India can only become capable of self-government with time. For the
former, by 'self-government', mean autonomy, and it is perfectly true that India might be made
autonomous immediately. If the foreign control were withdrawn to-day, some sort of indigenous
government or group of governments would, no doubt, after a period of confusion, come into
being in India. But it would not be democratic government; it would be the despotic rule of
the stronger or more cunning."[127]

The citations just quoted portray the standpoint of those critics, both Western and Oriental,
who maintain that the peoples of the Near and Middle East are incapable of self-government
in our sense, at least to-day or in the immediate future. Let us now examine the views of those
who hold a more optimistic attitude. Some observers stress strongly Islam's liberal tendencies
as a foundation on which to erect political structures in the modern sense. Vambéry says, "Islam
is still the most democratic religion in the world, a religion favouring both liberty and equality.
If there ever was a constitutional government, it was that of the first Caliphs."[128] A close
English student of the Near East declares: "Tribal Arabia has the only true form of democratic
government, and the Arab tribesman goes armed to make sure that it continues democratic--as
many a would-be despot knows to his cost."[129] Regarding the Young-Turk revolution of 1908,
Professor Lybyer remarks: "Turkey was not so unprepared for parliamentary institutions as might
at first sight appear. There lay hidden some precedent, much preparation, and a strong desire,
for parliamentary government. Both the religious and the secular institutions of Turkey involve
precedents for a parliament. Mohammed himself conferred with the wisest of his companions.
The Ulema[130] have taken counsel together up to the present time. The Sacred Law (Sheriat)
is fundamentally democratic and opposed in essence to absolutism. The habit of regarding it
as fundamental law enables even the most ignorant of Mohammedans to grasp the idea of a Constitution."
He points out that the early sultans had their "Divan," or assemblage of high officials, meeting
regularly to give the sultan information and advice, while more recently there have been a
Council of State and a Council of Ministers. Also, there were the parliaments of 1877 and 1878.
Abortive though these were and followed by Hamidian absolutism, they were legal precedents,
never forgotten. From all this Professor Lybyer concludes: "The Turkish Parliament may therefore
be regarded, not as a complete innovation, but as an enlargement and improvement of familiar
institutions."[131]

Regarding Persia, the American W. Morgan Shuster, whom the Persian Revolutionary Government
called in to organize the country's finances, and who was ousted in less than a year by Russo-British
pressure, expresses an optimistic regard for the political capacities of the Persian people.

"I believe," he says, "that there has never been in the history of the world an instance where
a people changed suddenly from an absolute monarchy to a constitutional or representative form
of government and at once succeeded in displaying a high standard of political wisdom and knowledge
of legislative procedure. Such a thing is inconceivable and not to be expected by any reasonable
person. The members of the first Medjlis[132] were compelled to fight for their very existence
from the day that the Parliament was constituted.... They had no time for serious legislative
work, and but little hope that any measures which they might enact would be put into effect.

"The second and last Medjlis, practically all of whose members I knew personally, was doubtless
incompetent if it were to be judged by the standards of the British Parliament or the American
Congress. It would be strange indeed if an absolutely new and untried government in a land
filled with the decay of ages should, from the outset, be able to conduct its business as well
as governments with generations and even centuries of experience behind them. We should make
allowances for lack of technical knowledge; for the important question, of course, is that
the Medjlis in the main represented the new and just ideals and aspirations of the Persian
people. Its members were men of more than average education; some displayed remarkable talent,
character, and courage.... They responded enthusiastically to any patriotic suggestion which
was put before them. They themselves lacked any great knowledge of governmental finances, but
they realized the situation and were both willing and anxious to put their full confidence
in any foreign advisers who showed themselves capable of resisting political intrigues and
bribery and working for the welfare of the Persian people.

"No Parliament can rightly be termed incompetent when it has the support of an entire people,
when it recognizes its own limitations, and when its members are willing to undergo great sacrifices
for their nation's dignity and sovereign rights....

"As to the Persian people themselves, it is difficult to generalize. The great mass of the
population is composed of peasants and tribesmen, all densely ignorant. On the other hand,
many thousands have been educated abroad, or have travelled after completing their education
at home. They, or at least certain elements among them which had had the support of the masses,
proved their capacity to assimilate Western civilization and ideals. They changed despotism
into democracy in the face of untold obstacles. Opportunities were equalized to such a degree
that any man of ability could occupy the highest official posts. As a race they showed during
the past five years an unparalleled eagerness for education. Hundreds of schools were established
during the Constitutional régime. A remarkable free press sprang up overnight, and fearless
writers came forward to denounce injustice and tyranny whether from within their country or
without. The Persians were anxious to adopt wholesale the political, ethical, and business
codes of the most modern and progressive nations. They burned with that same spirit of Asiatic
unrest which pervades India, which produced the 'Young-Turk' movement, and which has more recently
manifested itself in the establishment of the Chinese Republic."[133]

Mr. Shuster concludes: "Kipling has intimated that you cannot hustle the East. This includes
a warning and a reflection. Western men and Western ideals can hustle the East, provided the
Orientals realize that they are being carried along lines reasonably beneficial to themselves.
As a matter of fact, the moral appeal and the appeal of race-pride and patriotism, are as strong
in the East as in the West, though it does not lie so near the surface, and naturally the Oriental
displays no great desire to be hustled when it is along lines beneficial only to the Westerner."[134]

Indeed, many Western liberals believe that European rule, however benevolent and efficient,
will never prepare the Eastern peoples for true self-government; and that the only way they
will learn is by trying it out themselves. This view-point is admirably stated by the well-known
British publicist Lionel Curtis. Speaking of India, Mr. Curtis says that education and kindred
benefits conferred by British rule will not, of themselves, "avail to prepare Indians for the
task of responsible government. On the contrary, education will prove a danger and positive
mischief, unless accompanied by a definite instalment of political responsibility. It is in
the workshops of actual experience alone that electorates will acquire the art of self-government,
however highly educated they may be.

"There must, I urge, be a devolution of definite powers on electorates. The officers of Government[135]
must give every possible help and advice to the new authorities, for which those authorities
may ask. They must act as their foster-mothers, not as stepmothers. But if the new authorities
are to learn the art of responsible government, they must be free from control from above.
Not otherwise will they learn to feel themselves responsible to the electorate below. Nor will
the electorates themselves learn that the remedy for their sufferings rests in their own hands.
Suffering there will be, and it is only by suffering, self-inflicted and perhaps long endured,
that a people will learn the faculty of self-help, and genuine electorates be brought into
being....

"I am proud to think that England has conferred immeasurable good on India by creating order
and showing Indians what orderly government means. But, this having been done, I do not believe
the system can now be continued as it is, without positive damage to the character of the people.
The burden of trusteeship must be transferred, piece by piece, from the shoulders of Englishmen
to those of Indians in some sort able to bear it. Their strength and numbers must be developed.
But that can be done by the exercise of actual responsibility steadily increased as they can
bear it. It cannot be done by any system of school-teaching, though such teaching is an essential
concomitant of the process.

"The goal now set by the recent announcement of the Secretary of State[136] will only be reached
through trouble. Yet troublous as the times before us may be, we have at last reached that
stage of our work in India which is truly consonant with our own traditions. The task is one
worthy of this epoch in our history, if only because it calls for the effacement of ourselves."[137]

Mr. Curtis's concluding words foreshadow a process which is to-day actually going on, not only
in India but in other parts of the East as well. The Great War has so strengthened Eastern
nationalist aspirations and has so weakened European power and prestige that a widespread relaxing
of Europe's hold over the Orient is taking place. This process may make for good or for ill,
but it is apparently inevitable; and a generation (perhaps a decade) hence may see most of
the Near and Middle East autonomous or even independent. Whether the liberated peoples will
misuse their opportunities and fall into despotism or anarchy, or whether they succeed in establishing
orderly, progressive, constitutional governments, remains to be seen. We have examined the
factors, pro and con. Let us leave the problem in the only way in which to-day it can scientifically
be left--on a note of interrogation.

FOOTNOTES:

[111] T. Morison, Imperial Rule in India, p. 43 (London, 1899).

[112] Quoted from Arminius Vambéry, Western Culture in Eastern Lands, pp. 305-306 (London, 1906).

[113] A. H. Lybyer, "The Turkish Parliament," Proceedings of the American Political Science
Association, Vol. VII., p. 67 (1910).

[114] Vambéry, op. cit., p. 307.

[115] A good account of these liberal movements during the nineteenth century is found in Vambéry,
"Freiheitliche Bestrebungen im moslimischen Asien," Deutsche Rundschau, October, 1893; a shorter
summary of Vambéry's views is found in his Western Culture in Eastern Lands, especially chap.
v. Also, see articles by Léon Cahun, previously noted, in Lavisse et Rambaud, Histoire Générale,
Vols. XI. and XII.

[116] Vambéry, supra, p. 332.

[118] W. Morgan Shuster, The Strangling of Persia, p. xxi (New York, 1912).

[119] Cromer, Political and Literary Essays, pp. 25-28.

[120] E. J. Dillon, "Persia not Ripe for Self-Government," Contemporary Review, April, 1910.

[121] E. Mercier, La Question indigène, p. 220 (Paris, 1901).

[122] "Egypt," No. 1 (1914), p. 6.

[123] Rev. J. P. Jones, "The Present Situation in India," Journal of Race Development, July, 1910.

[124] Dr. T. Madavan Nair, "Caste and Democracy," Edinburgh Review, October, 1918.

[125] Bukhsh, Essays: Indian and Islamic, pp. 213-214 (London, 1912).

[126] I. e., the increase of self-government granted India by Britain as a result of the Montagu-Chelmsford
Report.

[127] E. Bevan, "The Reforms in India," The New Europe, January 29, 1920.

[129] G. W. Bury, Pan-Islam, pp. 202-203 (London, 1919).

[130] The assembly of religious notables.

[132] The name of the Persian Parliament.

[133] Shuster, The Strangling of Persia, pp. 240-246.

[134] Ibid., p. 333.

[135] I. e., the British Government of India.

[136] I. e., the Montagu-Chelmsford reforms, previously noted.

[137] Lionel Curtis, Letters to the People of India on Responsible Government, pp. 159-160
(London, 1918).

CHAPTER V

NATIONALISM

The spirit of nationality is one of the great dynamics of modern times. In Europe, where it
first attained self-conscious maturity, it radically altered the face of things during the
nineteenth century, so that that century is often called the Age of Nationalities. But nationalism
is not merely a European phenomenon. It has spread to the remotest corners of the earth, and
is apparently still destined to effect momentous transformations.

Given a phenomenon of so vital a character, the question at once arises: What is nationalism?
Curiously enough, this question has been endlessly debated. Many theories have been advanced,
seeking variously to identify nationalism with language, culture, race, politics, geography,
economics, or religion. Now these, and even other, matters may be factors predisposing or contributing
to the formation of national consciousness. But, in the last analysis, nationalism is something
over and above all its constituent elements, which it works into a new and higher synthesis.
There is really nothing recondite or mysterious about nationalism, despite all the arguments
that have raged concerning its exact meaning. As a matter of fact, nationalism is a state of
mind. Nationalism is a belief, held by a fairly large number of individuals, that they constitute
a "Nationality"; it is a sense of belonging together as a "Nation." This "Nation," as visualized
in the minds of its believers, is a people or community associated together and organized under
one government, and dwelling together in a distinct territory. When the nationalist ideal is
realized, we have what is known as a body-politic or "State." But we must not forget that this
"State" is the material manifestation of an ideal, which may have pre-existed for generations
as a mere pious aspiration with no tangible attributes like state sovereignty or physical frontiers.
Conversely, we must remember that a state need not be a nation. Witness the defunct Hapsburg
Empire of Austria-Hungary, an assemblage of discordant nationalities which flew to pieces under
the shock of war.

The late war was a liberal education regarding nationalistic phenomena, especially as applied
to Europe, and most of the fallacies regarding nationality were vividly disclosed. It is enough
to cite Switzerland--a country whose very existence flagrantly violates "tests" like language,
culture, religion, or geography, and where nevertheless a lively sense of nationality emerged
triumphant from the ordeal of Armageddon.

So familiar are these matters to the general public that only one point need here be stressed:
the difference between nationality and race. Unfortunately the two terms have been used very
loosely, if not interchangeably, and are still much confused in current thinking. As a matter
of fact, they connote utterly different things. Nationality is a psychological concept or state
of mind. Race is a physiological fact, which may be accurately determined by scientific tests
such as skull-measurement, hair-formation, and colour of eyes and skin. In other words, race
is what people anthropologically really are; nationality is what people politically think they are.

Right here we encounter a most curious paradox. There can be no question that, as between race
and nationality, race is the more fundamental, and, in the long run, the more important. A
man's innate capacity is obviously dependent upon his heredity, and no matter how stimulating
may be his environment, the potential limits of his reaction to that environment are fixed
at his birth. Nevertheless, the fact remains that men pay scant attention to race, while nationalism
stirs them to their very souls. The main reason for this seems to be because it is only about
half a century since even savants realized the true nature and importance of race. Even after
an idea is scientifically established, it takes a long time for it to be genuinely accepted
by the public, and only after it has been thus accepted will it form the basis of practical
conduct. Meanwhile the far older idea of nationality has permeated the popular consciousness,
and has thereby been able to produce tangible effects. In fine, our political life is still
dominated by nationalism rather than race, and practical politics are thus conditioned, not
by what men really are, but by what they think they are.

The late war is a striking case in point. That war is very generally regarded as having been
one of "race." The idea certainly lent to the struggle much of its bitterness and uncompromising
fury. And yet, from the genuine racial standpoint, it was nothing of the kind. Ethnologists
have proved conclusively that, apart from certain palæolithic survivals and a few historically
recent Asiatic intruders, Europe is inhabited by only three stocks: (1) The blond, long-headed
"Nordic" race, (2) the medium-complexioned, round-headed "Alpine" race, (3) the brunet, long-headed
"Mediterranean" race. These races are so dispersed and intermingled that every European nation
is built of at least two of these stocks, while most are compounded of all three. Strictly
speaking, therefore, the European War was not a race-war at all, but a domestic struggle between
closely knit blood-relatives.

Now all this was known to most well-educated Europeans long before 1914. And yet it did not
make the slightest difference. The reason is that, in spite of everything, the vast majority
of Europeans still believe that they fit into an entirely different race-category. They think
they belong to the "Teutonic" race, the "Latin" race, the "Slav" race, or the "Anglo-Saxon"
race. The fact that these so-called "races" simply do not exist but are really historical differentiations,
based on language and culture, which cut sublimely across genuine race-lines--all that is quite
beside the point. Your European may apprehend this intellectually, but so long as it remains
an intellectual novelty it will have no appreciable effect upon his conduct. In his heart of
hearts he will still believe himself a Latin, a Teuton, an Anglo-Saxon, or a Slav. For his
blood-race he will not stir; for his thought-race he will die. For the glory of the dolichocephalic
"Nordic" or the brachycephalic "Alpine" he will not prick his finger or wager a groat; for
the triumph of the "Teuton" or the "Slav" he will give his last farthing and shed his heart's
blood. In other words: Not what men really are, but what they think they are.

At first it may seem strange that in contemporary Europe thought-race should be all-powerful
while blood-race is impotent. Yet there are very good reasons. Not only has modern Europe's
great dynamic been nationalism, but also nationalism has seized upon the nascent racial concept
and has perverted it to its own ends. Until quite recent times "Nationality" was a distinctly
intensive concept, connoting approximate identity of culture, language, and historic past.
It was the logical product of a relatively narrow European outlook. Indeed, it grew out of
a still narrower outlook which had contented itself with the regional, feudal, and dialectic
loyalties of the Middle Ages. But the first half of the nineteenth century saw a still further
widening of the European outlook to a continental or even to a world horizon. At once the early
concept of nationality ceased to satisfy. Nationalism became extensive. It tended to embrace
all those of kindred speech, culture, and historic tradition, however distant such persons
might be. Obviously a new terminology was required. The keyword was presently discovered--"Race."
Hence we get that whole series of pseudo "race" phrases--"Pan-Germanism," "Pan-Slavism," "Pan-Angleism,"
"Pan-Latinism," and the rest. Of course these are not racial at all. They merely signify nationalism
brought up to date. But the European peoples, with all the fervour of the nationalist faith
that is in them, believe and proclaim them to be racial. Hence, so far as practical politics
are concerned, they are racial and will so continue while the nationalist dynamic endures.

This new development of nationalism (the "racial" stage, as we may call it) was at first confined
to the older centres of European civilization, but with the spread of Western ideas it presently
appeared in the most unexpected quarters. Its advent in the Balkans, for example, quickly engendered
those fanatical propagandas, "Pan-Hellenism," "Pan-Serbism," etc., which turned that unhappy
region first into a bear-garden and latterly into a witches' sabbath.

Meanwhile, by the closing decades of the nineteenth century, the first phase of nationalism
had patently passed into Asia. The "Young-Turk" and "Young-Egyptian" movements, and the "Nationalist"
stirrings in regions so far remote from each other as Algeria, Persia, and India, were unmistakable
signs that Asia was gripped by the initial throes of nationalist self-consciousness. Furthermore,
with the opening years of the twentieth century, numerous symptoms proclaimed the fact that
in Asia, as in the Balkans, the second or "racial" stage of nationalism had begun. These years
saw the definite emergence of far-flung "Pan-" movements: "Pan-Turanism," "Pan-Arabism," and
(most amazing of apparent paradoxes) "Pan-Islamic Nationalism."

                                   I

Let us now trace the genesis and growth of nationalism in the Near and Middle East, devoting
the present chapter to nationalist developments in the Moslem world with the exception of India.
India requires special treatment, because there nationalist activity has been mainly the work
of the non-Moslem Hindu element. Indian nationalism has followed a course differing distinctly
from that of Islam, and will therefore be considered in the following chapter.

Before it received the Western impact of the nineteenth century, the Islamic world was virtually
devoid of self-conscious nationalism. There were, to be sure, strong local and tribal loyalties.
There was intense dynastic sentiment like the Turks' devotion to their "Padishas," the Ottoman
sultans. There was also marked pride of race such as the Arabs' conviction that they were the
"Chosen People." Here, obviously, were potential nationalist elements. But these elements were
as yet dispersed and unco-ordinated. They were not yet fused into the new synthesis of self-conscious
nationalism. The only Moslem people which could be said to possess anything like true nationalist
feeling were the Persians, with their traditional devotion to their plateau-land of "Iran."
The various peoples of the Moslem world had thus, at most, a rudimentary, inchoate nationalist
consciousness: a dull, inert unitary spirit; capable of development, perhaps, but as yet scarcely
perceptible even to outsiders and certainly unperceived by themselves.

Furthermore, Islam itself was in many respects hostile to nationalism. Islam's insistence upon
the brotherhood of all True Believers, and the Islamic political ideal of the "Imâmât," or
universal theocratic democracy, naturally tended to inhibit the formation of sovereign, mutually
exclusive national units; just as the nascent nationalities of Renaissance Europe conflicted
with the mediæval ideals of universal papacy and "Holy Roman Empire."

Given such an unfavourable environment, it is not strange to see Moslem nationalist tendencies
germinating obscurely and confusedly throughout the first half of the nineteenth century. Not
until the second half of the century is there any clear conception of "Nationalism" in the
Western sense. There are distinct nationalist tendencies in the teachings of Djemal-ed-Din
el-Afghani (who is philosophically the connecting link between Pan-Islamism and Moslem nationalism),
while the Turkish reformers of the mid-nineteenth century were patently influenced by nationalism
as they were by other Western ideas. It was, in fact, in Turkey that a true nationalist consciousness
first appeared. Working upon the Turks' traditional devotion to their dynasty and pride in
themselves as a ruling race lording it over many subject peoples both Christian and Moslem,
the Turkish nationalist movement made rapid progress.

Precisely as in Europe, the nationalist movement in Turkey began with a revival of historic
memories and a purification of the language. Half a century ago the Ottoman Turks knew almost
nothing about their origins or their history. The martial deeds of their ancestors and the
stirring annals of their empire were remembered only in a vague, legendary fashion, the study
of the national history being completely neglected. Religious discussions and details of the
life of Mohammed or the early days of Islam interested men more than the spread of Ottoman
power in three continents. The nationalist pioneers taught their fellow-countrymen their historic
glories and awakened both pride of past and confidence in the future.

Similarly with the Turkish language; the early nationalists found it virtually cleft in twain.
On the one hand was "official" Turkish--a clumsy hotchpotch, overloaded with flowers of rhetoric
and cryptic expressions borrowed from Arabic and Persian. This extraordinary jargon, couched
in a bombastic style, was virtually unintelligible to the masses. The masses, on the other
hand, spoke "popular" Turkish--a primitive, limited idiom, divided into many dialects and despised
as uncouth and boorish by "educated" persons. The nationalists changed all this. Appreciating
the simple, direct strength of the Turkish tongue, nationalist enthusiasts trained in European
principles of grammar and philology proceeded to build up a real Turkish language in the Western
sense. So well did they succeed that in less than a generation they produced a simplified,
flexible Turkish which was used effectively by both journalists and men of letters, was intelligible
to all classes, and became the unquestioned vehicle for thought and the canon of style.[138]

Of course the chief stimulus to Turkish nationalism was Western political pressure. The more
men came to love their country and aspire to its future, the more European assaults on Turkish
territorial integrity spurred them to defend their threatened independence. The nationalist
ideal was "Ottomanism"--the welding of a real "nation" in which all citizens, whatever their
origin or creed, should be "Ottomans," speaking the Turkish language and inspired by Ottoman
patriotism. This, however, conflicted sharply with the rival (and prior) nationalisms of the
Christian peoples of the empire, to say nothing of the new Arab nationalism which was taking
shape at just this same time. Turkish nationalism was also frowned on by Sultan Abdul Hamid.
Abdul Hamid had an instinctive aversion to all nationalist movements, both as limitations to
his personal absolutism and as conflicting with that universal Pan-Islamic ideal on which he
based his policy. Accordingly, even those Turkish nationalists who proclaimed complete loyalty
were suspect, while those with liberal tendencies were persecuted and driven into exile.

The revolution of 1908, however, brought nationalism to power. Whatever their differences on
other matters, the Young-Turks were all ardent nationalists. In fact, the very ardour of their
nationalism was a prime cause of their subsequent misfortunes. With the rashness of fanatics
the Young-Turks tried to "Ottomanize" the whole empire at once. This enraged all the other
nationalities, alienated them from the revolution, and gave the Christian Balkan states their
opportunity to attack disorganized Turkey in 1912.

The truth of the matter was that Turkish nationalism was evolving in a direction which could
only mean heightened antagonism between the Turkish element on the one side and the non-Turkish
elements, Christian or Moslem, on the other. Turkish nationalism had, in fact, now reached
the second or "racial" stage. Passing the bounds of the limited, mainly territorial, idea connoted
by the term "Ottomanism," it had embraced the far-flung and essentially racial concepts known
as "Pan-Turkism" and "Pan-Turanism." These wider developments we shall consider later on in
this chapter. Before so doing let us examine the beginnings of nationalism's "first stage"
in other portions of the Moslem world.

Shortly after the Ottoman Turks showed signs of a nationalistic awakening, kindred symptoms
began to appear among the Arabs. As in all self-conscious nationalist movements, it was largely
a protest against some other group. In the case of the Arabs this protest was naturally directed
against their Turkish rulers. We have already seen how Desert Arabia (the Nejd) had always
maintained its freedom, and we have also seen how those Arab lands like Syria, Mesopotamia,
and the Hedjaz which fell under Turkish control nevertheless continued to feel an ineradicable
repugnance at seeing themselves, Islam's "Chosen People," beneath the yoke of a folk which,
in Arab eyes, were mere upstart barbarians. Despite a thousand years of Turkish domination
the two races never got on well together, their racial temperaments being too incompatible
for really cordial relations. The profound temperamental incompatibility of Turk and Arab has
been well summarized by a French writer. Says Victor Bérard: "Such are the two languages and
such the two peoples: in the latitude of Rome and in the latitude of Algiers, the Turk of Adrianople,
like the Turk of Adalia, remains a man of the north and of the extreme north; in all climates
the Arab remains a man of the south and of the extreme south. To the Arab's suppleness, mobility,
imagination, artistic feeling, democratic tendencies, and anarchic individualism, the Turk
opposes his slowness, gravity, sense of discipline and regularity, innate militarism. The Turkish
master has always felt disdain for the 'artistic canaille,' whose pose, gesticulations, and
indiscipline, shock him profoundly. On their side, the Arabs see in the Turk only a blockhead;
in his placidity and taciturnity only stupidity and ignorance; in his respect for law only
slavishness; and in his love of material well-being only gross bestiality. Especially do the
Arabs jeer at the Turk's artistic incapacity: after having gone to school to the Chinese, Persians,
Arabs, and Greeks, the Turk remains, in Arab eyes, just a big booby of barrack and barnyard."[139]

Add to this the fact that the Arabs regard the Turks as perverters of the Islamic faith, and
we need not be surprised to find that Turkey's Arab subjects have ever displayed symptoms of
rebellious unrest. We have seen how the Wahabi movement was specifically directed against Turkish
control of the holy cities, and despite the Wahabi defeat, Arab discontent lived on. About
1820 the German explorer Burckhardt wrote of Arabia: "When Turkish power in the Hedjaz declines,
the Arabs will avenge themselves for their subjection."[140] And some twenty years later the
Shereef of Mecca remarked to a French traveller: "We, the direct descendants of the Prophet,
have to bow our heads before miserable Pashas, most of them former Christian slaves come to
power by the most shameful courses."[141] Throughout the nineteenth century every Turkish defeat
in Europe was followed by a seditious outburst in its Arab provinces.

Down to the middle of the nineteenth century these seditious stirrings remained sporadic, unco-ordinated
outbursts of religious, regional, or tribal feeling, with no genuinely "Nationalistic" programme
of action or ideal. But in the later sixties a real nationalist agitation appeared. Its birthplace
was Syria. That was what might have been expected, since Syria was the part of Turkey's Arab
dominions most open to Western influences. This first Arab nationalist movement, however, did
not amount to much. Directed by a small group of noisy agitators devoid of real ability, the
Turkish Government suppressed it without much difficulty.

The disastrous Russian war of 1877, however, blew the scattered embers into a fresh flame.
For several years Turkey's Arab provinces were in full ferment. The nationalists spoke openly
of throwing off the Turkish yoke and welding the Arab lands into a loose-knit confederation
headed by a religious potentate, probably the Shereef of Mecca. This was obviously an adaptation
of Western nationalism to the traditional Arab ideal of a theocratic democracy already realized
in the Meccan caliphate and the Wahabi government of the Nejd.

This second stirring of Arab nationalism was likewise of short duration. Turkey was now ruled
by Sultan Abdul Hamid, and Abdul Hamid's Pan-Islamic policy looked toward good relations with
his Arab subjects. Accordingly, Arabs were welcomed at Constantinople, favours were heaped
upon Arab chiefs and notables, while efforts were made to promote the contentment of the empire's
Arab populations. At the same time the construction of strategic railways in Syria and the
Hedjaz gave the Turkish Government a stronger grip over its Arab provinces than ever before,
and conversely rendered successful Arab revolts a far more remote possibility. Furthermore,
Abdul Hamid's Pan-Islamic propaganda was specially directed toward awakening a sense of Moslem
solidarity between Arabs and Turks as against the Christian West. These efforts achieved a
measure of success. Certainly, every European aggression in the Near East was an object-lesson
to Turks and Arabs to forget, or at least adjourn, their domestic quarrels in face of the common
foe.

Despite the partial successes of Abdul Hamid's efforts, a considerable section of his Arab
subjects remained unreconciled, and toward the close of the nineteenth century a fresh stirring
of Arab nationalist discontent made its appearance. Relentlessly persecuted by the Turkish
authorities, the Arab nationalist agitators, mostly Syrians, went into exile. Gathering in
near-by Egypt (now of course under British governance) and in western Europe, these exiles
organized a revolutionary propaganda. Their formal organization dates from the year 1895, when
the "Arabian National Committee" was created at Paris. For a decade their propaganda went on
obscurely, but evidently with effect, for in 1905 the Arab provinces of Hedjaz and Yemen burst
into armed insurrection. This insurrection, despite the best efforts of the Turkish Government,
was never wholly suppressed, but dragged on year after year, draining Turkey of troops and
treasure, and contributing materially to her Tripolitan and Balkan disasters in 1911-12.

The Arab revolt of 1905 focussed the world's attention upon "The Arab Question," and the nationalist
exiles made the most of their opportunity by redoubling their propaganda, not only at home
but in the West as well. Europe was fully informed of "Young Arabia's" wrongs and aspirations,
notably by an extremely clever book by one of the nationalist leaders, entitled The Awakening
of the Arab Nation,[142] which made a distinct sensation. The aims of the Arab nationalists
are clearly set forth in the manifesto of the Arabian National Committee, addressed to the
Great Powers and published early in 1906. Says this manifesto: "A great pacific change is on
the eve of occurring in Turkey. The Arabs, whom the Turks tyrannized over only by keeping them
divided on insignificant questions of ritual and religion, have become conscious of their national,
historic, and racial homogeneity, and wish to detach themselves from the worm-eaten Ottoman
trunk in order to form themselves into an independent state. This new Arab Empire will extend
to its natural frontiers, from the valleys of the Tigris and Euphrates to the Isthmus of Suez,
and from the Mediterranean to the Sea of Oman. It will be governed by the constitutional and
liberal monarchy of an Arabian sultan. The present Vilayet of the Hedjaz, together with the
territory of Medina, will form an independent empire whose sovereign will be at the same time
the religious Khalif of all the Mohammedans. Thus, one great difficulty, the separation of
the civil and the religious powers in Islam, will have been solved for the greater good of all."

To their fellow Arabs the committee issued the following proclamation: "Dear Compatriots! All
of us know how vile and despicable the glorious and illustrious title of Arabian Citizen has
become in the mouths of all foreigners, especially Turks. All of us see to what depths of misery
and ignorance we have fallen under the tyranny of these barbarians sprung from Central Asia.
Our land, the richest and finest on earth, is to-day an arid waste. When we were free, we conquered
the world in a hundred years; we spread everywhere sciences, arts, and letters; for centuries
we led world-civilization. But, since the spawn of Ertogrul[143] usurped the caliphate of Islam,
they have brutalized us so as to exploit us to such a degree that we have become the poorest
people on earth." The proclamation then goes on to declare Arabia's independence.[144]

Of course "Young Arabia" did not then attain its independence. The revolt was kept localized
and Turkey maintained its hold over most of its Arab dominions. Nevertheless, there was constant
unrest. During the remainder of Abdul Hamid's reign his Arab provinces were in a sort of unstable
equilibrium, torn between the forces of nationalist sedition on the one hand and Pan-Islamic,
anti-European feeling on the other.

The Young-Turk revolution of 1908 caused a new shift in the situation. The Arab provinces,
like the other parts of the empire, rejoiced in the downfall of despotism and hoped great things
for the future. In the Turkish Parliament the Arab provinces were well represented, and their
deputies asked for a measure of federal autonomy. This the Young-Turks, bent upon "Ottomanization,"
curtly refused. The result was profound disillusionment in the Arab provinces and a revival
of separatist agitation. It is interesting to note that the new independence agitation had
a much more ambitious programme than that of a few years before. The Arab nationalists of Turkey
were by this time definitely linking up with the nationalists of Egypt and French North Africa--Arabic-speaking
lands where the populations were at least partly Arab in blood. Arab nationalism was beginning
to speak aloud what it had previously whispered--the programme of a great "Pan-Arab" empire
stretching right across North Africa and southern Asia from the Atlantic to the Indian Oceans.
Thus, Arab nationalism, like Turkish nationalism, was evolving into the "second," or racial, stage.

Deferring discussion of this broader development, let us follow a trifle further the course
of the more restricted Arab nationalism within the Turkish Empire. Despite the Pan-Islamic
sentiment evoked by the European aggressions of 1911-12, nationalist feeling was continually
aroused by the Ottomanizing measures of the Young-Turk government, and the independence agitation
was presently in full swing once more. In 1913 an Arabian nationalist congress convened in
Paris and revolutionary propaganda was inaugurated on an increased scale. When the Great War
broke out next year, Turkey's Arab provinces were seething with seditious unrest.[145] The
Turkish authorities took stern measures against possible trouble, imprisoning and executing
all prominent nationalists upon whom they could lay their hands, while the proclamation of
the "Holy War" rallied a certain portion of Arab public opinion to the Turkish side, especially
since the conquest of Egypt was a possibility. But as the war dragged on the forces of discontent
once more raised their heads. In 1916 the revolt of the Shereef of Mecca gave the signal for
the downfall of Turkish rule. This revolt, liberally backed by England, gained the active or
passive support of the Arab elements throughout the Turkish Empire. Inspired by Allied promises
of national independence of a most alluring character, the Arabs fought strenuously against
the Turks and were a prime factor in the débâcle of Ottoman military power in the autumn of
1918.[146]

Before discussing the momentous events which have occurred in the Arab provinces of the former
Ottoman Empire since 1918, let us consider nationalist developments in the Arabized regions
of North Africa lying to the westward. Of these developments the most important is that of
Egypt. The mass of the Egyptian people is to-day, as in Pharaoh's time, of the old "Nilotic"
stock. A slow, self-contained peasant folk, the Egyptian "fellaheen" have submitted passively
to a long series of conquerors, albeit this passivity has been occasionally broken by outbursts
of volcanic fury presently dying away into passivity once more. Above the Nilotic masses stands
a relatively small upper class descended chiefly from Egypt's more recent Asiatic conquerors--Arabs,
Kurds, Circassians, Albanians, and Turks. In addition to this upper class, which until the
English occupation monopolized all political power, there are large European "colonies" with
"extraterritorial" rights, while a further complication is added by the persistence of a considerable
native Christian element, the "Copts," who refused to turn Mohammedan at the Arab conquest
and who to-day number fully one-tenth of the total population.

With such a medley of races, creeds, and cultures, and with so prolonged a tradition of foreign
domination, Egypt might seem a most unlikely milieu for the growth of nationalism. On the other
hand, Egypt has been more exposed to Western influences than any other part of the Near East.
Bonaparte's invasion at the close of the eighteenth century profoundly affected Egyptian life,
and though the French were soon expelled, European influences continued to permeate the valley
of the Nile. Mehemet Ali, the able Albanian adventurer who made himself master of Egypt after
the downfall of French rule, realized the superiority of European methods and fostered a process
of Europeanization which, however superficial, resulted in a wide dissemination of Western
ideas. Mehemet Ali's policy was continued by his successors. That magnificent spendthrift Khedive
Ismail, whose reckless contraction of European loans was the primary cause of European intervention,
prided himself on his "Europeanism" and surrounded himself with Europeans.

Indeed, the first stirrings of Egyptian nationalism took the form of a protest against the
noxious, parasitical "Europeanism" of Khedive Ismail and his courtiers. Sober-minded Egyptians
became increasingly alarmed at the way Ismail was mortgaging Egypt's independence by huge European
loans and sucking its life-blood by merciless taxation. Inspired consciously or unconsciously
by the Western concepts of "nation" and "patriotism," these men desired to stay Ismail's destructive
course and to safeguard Egypt's future. In fact, their efforts were directed not merely against
the motley crew of European adventurers and concessionaires who were luring the Khedive into
fresh extravagances, but also against the complaisant Turkish and Circassian pashas, and the
Armenian and Syrian usurers, who were the instruments of Ismail's will. The nascent movement
was thus basically a "patriotic" protest against all those, both foreigners and native-born,
who were endangering the country. This showed clearly in the motto adopted by the agitators--the
hitherto unheard-of slogan: "Egypt for the Egyptians!"

Into this incipient ferment there was presently injected the dynamic personality of Djemal-ed-Din.
Nowhere else did this extraordinary man exert so profound and lasting an influence as in Egypt.
It is not too much to say that he is the father of every shade of Egyptian nationalism. He
influenced not merely violent agitators like Arabi Pasha but also conservative reformers like
Sheikh Mohammed Abdou, who realized Egypt's weakness and were content to labour patiently by
evolutionary methods for distant goals.

For the moment the apostles of violent action had the stage. In 1882 a revolutionary agitation
broke out headed by Arabi Pasha, an army officer, who, significantly enough, was of fellah
origin, the first man of Nilotic stock to sway Egypt's destinies in modern times. Raising their
slogan, "Egypt for the Egyptians," the revolutionists sought to drive all "foreigners," both
Europeans and Asiatics, from the country. Their attempt was of course foredoomed to failure.
A massacre of Europeans in the port-city of Alexandria at once precipitated European intervention.
An English army crushed the revolutionists at the battle of Tel-el-Kebir, and after this one
battle, disorganized, bankrupt Egypt submitted to British rule, personified by Evelyn Baring,
Lord Cromer. The khedivial dynasty was, to be sure, retained, and the native forms of government
respected, but all real power centred in the hands of the British "Financial Adviser," the
representative of Britain's imperial will.

For twenty-five years Lord Cromer ruled Egypt, and the record of this able proconsul will place
him for ever in the front rank of the world's great administrators. His strong hand drew Egypt
from hopeless bankruptcy into abounding prosperity. Material well-being, however, did not kill
Egyptian nationalism. Scattered to the winds before the British bayonet charges, the seeds
of unrest slowly germinated beneath the fertile Nilotic soil. Almost imperceptible at first
under the numbing shock of Tel-el-Kebir, nationalist sentiment grew steadily as the years wore
on, and by the closing decade of the nineteenth century it had become distinctly perceptible
to keen-sighted European observers. Passing through Egypt in 1895, the well-known African explorer
Schweinfurth was struck with the psychological change which had occurred since his earlier
visits to the valley of the Nile. "A true national self-consciousness is slowly beginning to
awaken," he wrote. "The Egyptians are still very far from being a true Nationality, but the
beginning has been made."[147]

With the opening years of the twentieth century what had previously been visible only to discerning
eyes burst into sudden and startling bloom. In the main, however, the movement was an impatient
and violent protest against British rule and an intransigeant demand for immediate independence.
Perhaps the most significant point was that virtually all Egyptians were nationalists at heart,
conservatives as well as radicals declining to consider Egypt as a permanent part of the British
Empire. The nationalists had a sound legal basis for this attitude, owing to the fact that
British rule rested upon insecure diplomatic foundations. England had intervened in Egypt as
a self-constituted "Mandatory" of European financial interests. Its action had roused much
opposition in Europe, particularly in France, and to allay this opposition the British Government
had repeatedly announced that its occupation of Egypt was of a temporary nature. In fact, Egyptian
discontent was deliberately fanned by France right down to the conclusion of the Entente Cordiale
in 1904. This French sympathy for Egyptian aspirations was of capital importance in the development
of the nationalist movement. In Egypt, France's cultural prestige was predominant. In Egyptian
eyes a European education was synonymous with a French education, so the rising generation
inevitably sat under French teachers, either in Egypt or in France, and these French preceptors,
being usually Anglophobes, rarely lost an opportunity for instilling dislike of England and
aversion to British rule.

The radical nationalists were headed by a young man named Mustapha Kamel. He was a very prince
of agitators; ardent, magnetic, enthusiastic, and possessed of a fiery eloquence which fairly
swept away both his hearers and his readers. An indefatigable propagandist, he edited a whole
chain of newspapers and periodicals, and as fast as one organ was suppressed by the British
authorities he started another. His uncompromising nationalism may be gauged from the following
examples from his writings. Taking for his motto the phrase "The Egyptians for Egypt; Egypt
for the Egyptians," he wrote as early as 1896: "Egyptian civilization cannot endure in the
future unless it is founded by the people itself; unless the fellah, the merchant, the teacher,
the pupil, in fine, every single Egyptian, knows that man has sacred, intangible rights; that
he is not created to be a tool, but to lead an intelligent and worthy life; that love of country
is the most beautiful sentiment which can ennoble a soul; and that a nation without independence
is a nation without existence! It is by patriotism that backward peoples come quickly to civilization,
to greatness, and to power. It is patriotism that forms the blood which courses in the veins
of virile nations, and it is patriotism that gives life to every living being."

The English, of course, were bitterly denounced. Here is a typical editorial from his organ
El Lewa: "We are the despoiled. The English are the despoilers. We demand a sacred right. The
English are the usurpers of that right. This is why we are sure of success sooner or later.
When one is in the right, it is only a question of time."

Despite his ardent aspirations, Mustapha Kamel had a sense of realities, and recognized that,
for the moment at least, British power could not be forcibly overthrown. He did not, therefore,
attempt any open violence which he knew would merely ruin himself and his followers. Early
in 1908 he died, only thirty-four years of age. His mantle fell upon his leading disciple,
Mohammed Farid Bey. This man, who was not of equal calibre, tried to make up for his deficiency
in true eloquence by the violence of his invective. The difference between the two leaders
can be gauged by the editorial columns of El Lewa. Here is an editorial of September, 1909:
"This land was polluted by the English, putrefied with their atrocities as they suppressed
our beloved dustour [constitution], tied our tongues, burned our people alive and hanged our
innocent relatives, and perpetrated other horrors at which the heavens are about to tremble,
the earth to split, and the mountains to fall down. Let us take a new step. Let our lives be
cheap while we seek our independence. Death is far better than life for you if you remain in
your present condition."

Mohammed Farid's fanatical impatience of all opposition led him into tactical blunders like
alienating the native Christian Copts, whom Mustapha Kamel had been careful to conciliate.
The following diatribe (which, by the way, reveals a grotesque jumble of Western and Eastern
ideas) is an answer to Coptic protests at the increasing violence of his propaganda: "The Copts
should be kicked to death. They still have faces and bodies similar to those of demons and
monkeys, which is a proof that they hide poisonous spirits within their souls. The fact that
they exist in the world confirms Darwin's theory that human beings are generated from monkeys.
You sons of adulterous women! You descendants of the bearers of trays! You tails of camels
with your monkey faces! You bones of bodies!"

In this more violent attitude the nationalists were encouraged by several reasons. For one
thing, Lord Cromer had laid down his proconsulate in 1907 and had been succeeded by Sir Eldon
Gorst. The new ruler represented the ideas of British Liberalism, now in power, which wished
to appease Egyptian unrest by conciliation instead of by Lord Cromer's autocratic indifference.
In the second place, the Young-Turk revolution of 1908 gave an enormous impetus to the Egyptian
cry for constitutional self-government. Lastly, France's growing intimacy with England dashed
the nationalist's cherished hope that Britain would be forced by outside pressure to redeem
her diplomatic pledges and evacuate the Nile valley, thus driving the nationalists to rely
more on their own exertions.

Given this nationalist temper, conciliatory attempt was foredoomed to failure. For, however
conciliatory Sir Eldon Gorst might be in details, he could not promise the one thing which
the nationalists supremely desired--independence. This demand England refused even to consider.
Practically all Englishmen had become convinced that Egypt with the Suez Canal was a vital
link between the eastern and western halves of the British Empire, and that permanent control
of Egypt was thus an absolute necessity. There was thus a fundamental deadlock between British
imperial and Egyptian national convictions. Accordingly, the British Liberal policy of conciliation
proved a fiasco. Even Sir Eldon Gorst admitted in his official reports that concessions were
simply regarded as signs of weakness.

Before long seditious agitation and attendant violence grew to such proportions that the British
Government became convinced that only strong measures would save the situation. Therefore,
in 1911, Sir Eldon Gorst was replaced by Lord Kitchener--a patent warning to the nationalists
that sedition would be given short shrift by the iron hand which had crushed the Khalifa and
his Dervish hordes at Omdurman. Kitchener arrived in Egypt with the express mandate to restore
order, and this he did with thoroughness and exactitude. The Egyptians were told plainly that
England neither intended to evacuate the Nile valley nor considered its inhabitants fit for
self-government within any discernible future. They were admonished to turn their thoughts
from politics, at which they were so bad, to agriculture, at which they were so good. As for
seditious propaganda, new legislation enabled Lord Kitchener to deal with it in summary fashion.
Practically all the nationalist papers were suppressed, while the nationalist leaders were
imprisoned, interned, or exiled. In fact, the British Government did its best to distract attention
everywhere from Egypt, the British press co-operating loyally by labelling the subject taboo.
The upshot was that Egypt became quieter than it had been for a generation.

However, it was only a surface calm. Driven underground, Egyptian unrest even attained new
virulence which alarmed close observers. In 1913 the well-known English publicist Sidney Low,
after a careful investigation of the Egyptian situation, wrote: "We are not popular in Egypt.
Feared we may be by some; respected I doubt not by many others; but really liked, I am sure,
by very few."[148] Still more outspoken was an article significantly entitled "The Darkness
over Egypt," which appeared on the eve of the Great War.[149] Its publication in a semi-scientific
periodical for specialists in Oriental problems rendered it worthy of serious attention. "The
long-continued absence of practically all discussion or even mention of Egyptian internal affairs
from the British press," asserted this article, "is not indicative of a healthy condition.
In Egypt the superficial quiet is that of suppressed discontent--of a sullen, hopeless mistrust
toward the Government of the Occupation. Certain recent happenings have strengthened in Egyptian
minds the conviction that the Government is making preparations for the complete annexation
of the country.... We are not concerned to question how far the motives attributed to the Government
are true. The essential fact is that the Government of the Occupation has not yet succeeded
in endearing, or even recommending, itself to the Egyptian people, but is, on the contrary,
an object of suspicion, an occasion of enmity." The article expresses grave doubt whether Lord
Kitchener's repressive measures have done more than drive discontent underground, and shows
"how strong is the Nationalist feeling in Egypt to-day in spite of the determined attempts
to stamp out all freedom of political opinion. As might be expected, this wholesale muzzling
of the press has not only reduced the Mohammedan majority to a condition of internal ferment,
but has seriously alienated the hitherto loyal Copts. It may be that the Government can discover
no better means of recommending itself to the confidence and good-will of the Egyptian people;
it may be that only by the instant repression of every outward sign of discontent can it feel
secure in its occupation; but if such be the case, it is an admission of extreme weakness,
or recognized insecurity of tenure." The article concludes with the following warning as to
the problem's wider implications: "Egypt, though a subject of profound indifference to the
English voter, is being feverishly watched by the Indian Mohammedans, and by the whole of our
West and Central African subjects--themselves strongly Moslem in sympathy, and at the present
time jealously suspicious of the political activities of Christian Imperialism."

Such being the state of Egyptian feeling in 1914, the outbreak of the Great War was bound to
produce intensified unrest. England's position in Egypt was, in truth, very difficult. Although
in fact England exercised complete control, in law Egypt was still a dependency of the Ottoman
Empire, Britain merely exercising a temporary occupation. Now it soon became evident that Turkey
was going to join England's enemies, the Teutonic empires, while it was equally evident that
the Egyptians sympathized with the Turks, even the Khedive Abbas Hilmi making no secret of
his pro-Turkish views. During the first months of the European War, while Turkey was still
nominally neutral, the Egyptian native press, despite the British censorship, was full of veiled
seditious statements, while the unruly attitude of the Egyptian populace and the stirrings
among the Egyptian native regiments left no doubt as to how the wind was blowing. England was
seriously alarmed. Accordingly, when Turkey entered the war in November, 1914, England took
the decisive plunge, deposed Abbas Hilmi, nominated his cousin Hussein Kamel "Sultan," and
declared Egypt a protectorate of the British Empire.

This stung the nationalists to fury. Anything like formal rebellion was rendered impossible
by the heavy masses of British and colonial troops which had been poured into the country.
Nevertheless, there was a good deal of sporadic violence, suppressed only by a stern application
of the "State of Siege." A French observer thus vividly describes these critical days: "The
Jehadd is rousing the anti-Christian fanaticism which always stirs in the soul of every good
Moslem. Since the end of October one could read in the eyes of the low-class Mohammedan natives
their hope--the massacre of the Christians. In the streets of Cairo they stared insolently
at the European passers-by. Some even danced for joy on learning that the Sultan had declared
the Holy War. Denounced to the police for this, they were incontinently bastinadoed at the
nearest police-station. The same state of mind reigned at El Azhar, and I am told that Europeans
who visit the celebrated Mohammedan University have their ears filled with the strongest epithets
of the Arab repertory--that best-furnished language in the world."[150]

The nationalist exiles vehemently expressed abroad what their fellows could not say at home.
Their leader, Mohammed Farid Bey, issued from Geneva an official protest against "the new illegal
régime proclaimed by England the 18th of last December. England, which pretends to make war
on Germany to defend Belgium, ought not to trample underfoot the rights of Egypt, nor consider
the treaties relative thereto as 'scraps of paper.'"[151] These exiles threw themselves vehemently
into the arms of Germany, as may be gauged from the following remarks of Abd-el-Malek Hamsa,
secretary of the nationalist party, in a German periodical: "There is hardly an Egyptian who
does not pray that England may be beaten and her Empire fall in ruins. During the early days
of the war, while I was still in Egypt, I was a witness of this popular feeling. In cities
and villages, from sage to simple peasant, all are convinced in the Kaiser's love for Islam
and friendship for its caliph, and they are hoping and praying for Germany's victory."[152]

Of course, in face of the overwhelming British garrison in Egypt, such pronouncements were
as idle as the wind. The hoped-for Turkish attacks were beaten back from the Suez Canal, the
"State of Siege" functioned with stern efficiency, and Egypt, flooded with British troops,
lapsed into sullen silence, not to be broken until the end of the war.

Turning back at this point to consider nationalist developments in the rest of North Africa,
we do not, as in Egypt, find a well-marked territorial patriotism. Anti-European hatred there
is in plenty, but such "patriotic" sentiments as exist belong rather to those more diffused
types of nationalist feeling known as "Pan-Arabism" and "Pan-Islamic Nationalism," which we
shall presently discuss.

The basic reason for this North African lack of national feeling, in its restricted sense,
is that nowhere outside of Egypt is there a land which ever has been, or which shows distinct
signs of becoming, a true "nation." The mass of the populations inhabiting the vast band of
territory between the Mediterranean Sea and the Sahara desert are "Berbers"--an ancient stock,
racially European rather than Asiatic or negroid, and closely akin to the "Latin" peoples across
the Mediterranean. The Berbers remind one of the Balkan Albanians: they are extremely tenacious
of their language and customs, and they have an instinctive racial feeling; but they are inveterate
particularists, having always been split up into many tribes, sometimes combining into partial
confederations but never developing true national patriotism.[153]

Alongside the Berbers we find everywhere a varying proportion of Arabs. The Arabs have colonized
North Africa ever since the Moslem conquest twelve centuries ago. They converted the Berbers
to Islam and Arab culture, but they never made North Africa part of the Arab world as they
did Syria and Mesopotamia, and in somewhat lesser degree Egypt. The two races have never really
fused. Despite more than a thousand years of Arab tutelage, the Berbers' manner of life remains
distinct. They have largely kept their language, and there has been comparatively little intermarriage.
Pure-blooded Arabs abound, often in large tribal groups, but they are still, in a way, foreigners.[154]

With such elements of discord, North Africa's political life has always been troubled. The
most stable region has been Morocco, though even there the sultan's authority has never really
extended to the mountain tribes. As for the so-called "Barbary States" (Algiers, Tunis, and
Tripoli), they were little more than port-cities along the coast, the hinterland enjoying practically
complete tribal independence. Over this confused turmoil spread the tide of French conquest,
beginning with Algiers in 1830 and ending with Morocco to-day.[155] France brought peace, order,
and material prosperity, but here, as in other Eastern lands, these very benefits of European
tutelage created a new sort of unity among the natives in their common dislike of the European
conqueror and their common aspiration toward independence. Accordingly, the past generation
has witnessed the appearance of "Young Algerian" and "Young Tunisian" political groups, led
by French-educated men who have imbibed Western ideas of "self-government" and "liberty."[156]
However, as we have already remarked, their goal is not so much the erection of distinct Algerian
and Tunisian "Nations" as it is creation of a larger North African, perhaps Pan-Islamic, unity.
It must not be forgotten that they are in close touch with the Sennussi and kindred influences
which we have already examined in the chapter on Pan-Islamism.

So much for "first-stage" nationalist developments in the Arab or Arabized lands. There is,
however, one more important centre of nationalist sentiment in the Moslem world to be considered--Persia.
Persia is, in fact, the land where a genuine nationalist movement would have been most logically
expected, because the Persians have for ages possessed a stronger feeling of "country" than
any other Near Eastern people.

In the nineteenth century Persia had sunk into such deep decrepitude that its patent weakness
excited the imperialistic appetites of Czarist Russia and, in somewhat lesser degree, of England.
Persia's decadence and external perils were, however, appreciated by thinking Persians, and
a series of reformist agitations took place, beginning with the religious movement of the Bab
early in the nineteenth century and culminating with the revolution of 1908.[157] That revolution
was largely precipitated by the Anglo-Russian Agreement of 1907 by which England and Russia
virtually partitioned Persia; the country being divided into a Russian "sphere of influence"
in the north and a British "sphere of influence" in the south, with a "neutral zone" between.
The revolution was thus in great part a desperate attempt of the Persian patriots to set their
house in order and avert, at the eleventh hour, the shadow of European domination which was
creeping over the land. But the revolution was not merely a protest against European aggression.
It was also aimed at the alien Khadjar dynasty which had so long misruled Persia. These Khadjar
sovereigns were of Turkoman origin. They had never become really Persianized, as shown by the
fact that the intimate court language was Turki, not Persian. They occupied a position somewhat
analogous to that of the Manchus before the Chinese revolution. The Persian revolution was
thus basically an Iranian patriotic outburst against all alien influences, whether from East
or West.

We have already seen how this patriotic movement was crushed by the forcible intervention of
European imperialism.[158] By 1912 Russia and England were in full control of the situation,
the patriots were proscribed and persecuted, and Persia sank into despairing silence. As a
British writer then remarked: "For such broken spirit and shattered hopes, as for the 'anarchy'
now existing in Persia, Russia and Great Britain are directly responsible, and if there be
a Reckoning, will one day be held to account. It is idle to talk of any improvement in the
situation, when the only Government in Persia consists of a Cabinet which does not command
the confidence of the people, terrorized by Russia, financially starved by both Russia and
England, allowed only miserable doles of money on usurious terms, and forbidden to employ honest
and efficient foreign experts like Mr. Shuster; when the King is a boy, the Regent an absentee,
the Parliament permanently suspended, and the best, bravest, and most honest patriots either
killed or driven into exile, while the wolf-pack of financiers, concession-hunters and land-grabbers
presses ever harder on the exhausted victim, whose struggles grow fainter and fainter. Little
less than a miracle can now save Persia."[159]

So ends our survey of the main "first-stage" nationalist movements in the Moslem world. We
should of course remember that a nationalist movement was developing concurrently in India,
albeit following an eccentric orbit of its own. We should also remember that, in addition to
the main movements just discussed, there were minor nationalist stirrings among other Moslem
peoples such as the Russian Tartars, the Chinese Mohammedans, and even the Javanese of the
Dutch Indies. Lastly, we should remember that these nationalist movements were more or less
interwoven with the non-national movement of Pan-Islamism, and with those "second-stage," "racial"
nationalist movements which we shall now consider.

                                  II

Earlier in this chapter we have already remarked that the opening years of the twentieth century
witnessed the appearance in Asia of nationalism's second or racial stage, especially among
the Turkish and Arab peoples. This wider stage of nationalism has attained its highest development
among the Turks; where, indeed, it has gone through two distinct phases, describable respectively
by the terms "Pan-Turkism" and "Pan-Turanism." We have described the primary phase of Turkish
nationalism in its restricted "Ottoman" sense down to the close of the Balkan wars of 1912-13.
It is at that time that the secondary or "racial" aspects of Turkish nationalism first come
prominently to the fore.

By this time the Ottoman Turks had begun to realize that they did not stand alone in the world;
that they were, in fact, the westernmost branch of a vast band of peoples extending right across
eastern Europe and Asia, from the Baltic to the Pacific and from the Mediterranean to the Arctic
Ocean, to whom ethnologists have assigned the name of "Uralo-Altaic race," but who are more
generally termed "Turanians." This group embraces the most widely scattered folk--the Ottoman
Turks of Constantinople and Anatolia, the Turkomans of Persia and Central Asia, the Tartars
of South Russia and Transcaucasia, the Magyars of Hungary, the Finns of Finland and the Baltic
provinces, the aboriginal tribes of Siberia, and even the distant Mongols and Manchus. Diverse
though they are in culture, tradition, and even personal appearance, these people nevertheless
possess certain well-marked traits in common. Their languages are all similar, while their
physical and mental make-up displays undoubted affinities. They are all noted for great physical
vitality combined with unusual toughness of nerve-fibre. Though somewhat deficient in imagination
and creative artistic sense, they are richly endowed with patience, tenacity, and dogged energy.
Above all, they have usually displayed extraordinary military capacity, together with a no
less remarkable aptitude for the masterful handling of subject peoples. The Turanians have
certainly been the greatest conquerors that the world has ever seen. Attila and his Huns, Arpad
and his Magyars, Isperich and his Bulgars, Alp Arslan and his Seljuks, Ertogrul and his Ottomans,
Jenghiz Khan and Tamerlane with their "inflexible" Mongol hordes, Baber in India, even Kubilai
Khan and Nurhachu in far-off Cathay: the type is ever the same. The hoof-print of the Turanian
"man on horseback" is stamped deep all over the palimpsest of history.

Glorious or sinister according to the point of view, Turan's is certainly a stirring past.
Of course one may query whether these diverse peoples actually do form one genuine race. But,
as we have already seen, so far as practical politics go, that makes no difference. Possessed
of kindred tongues and temperaments, and dowered with such a wealth of soul-stirring tradition,
it would suffice for them to think themselves racially one to form a nationalist dynamic of
truly appalling potency.

Until about a generation ago, to be sure, no signs of such a movement were visible. Not only
were distant stocks like Finns and Manchus quite unaware of any common Turanian bond, but even
obvious kindred like Ottoman Turks and Central Asian Turkomans regarded one another with indifference
or contempt. Certainly the Ottoman Turks were almost as devoid of racial as they were of national
feeling. Arminius Vambéry tells how, when he first visited Constantinople in 1856, "the word
Turkluk (i. e., 'Turk') was considered an opprobrious synonym of grossness and savagery, and
when I used to call people's attention to the racial importance of the Turkish stock (stretching
from Adrianople to the Pacific) they answered: 'But you are surely not classing us with Kirghiz
and with the gross nomads of Tartary.' ... With a few exceptions, I found no one in Constantinople
who was seriously interested in the questions of Turkish nationality or language."[160]

It was, in fact, the labours of Western ethnologists like the Hungarian Vambéry and the Frenchman
Léon Cahun that first cleared away the mists which enshrouded Turan. These labours disclosed
the unexpected vastness of the Turanian world. And this presently acquired a most unacademic
significance. The writings of Vambéry and his colleagues spread far and wide through Turan
and were there devoured by receptive minds already stirring to the obscure promptings of a
new time. The normality of the Turanian movement is shown by its simultaneous appearance at
such widely sundered points as Turkish Constantinople and the Tartar centres along the Russian
Volga. Indeed, if anything, the leaven began its working on the Volga sooner than on the Bosphorus.
This Tartar revival, though little known, is one of the most extraordinary phenomena in all
nationalist history. The Tartars, once masters of Russia, though long since fallen from their
high estate, have never vanished in the Slav ocean. Although many of them have been for four
centuries under Russian rule, they have stubbornly maintained their religious, racial, and
cultural identity. Clustered thickly along the Volga, especially at Kazan and Astrakhan, retaining
much of the Crimea, and forming a considerable minority in Transcaucasia, the Tartars remained
distinct "enclaves" in the Slav Empire, widely scattered but indomitable.

The first stirrings of nationalist self-consciousness among the Russian Tartars appeared as
far back as 1895, and from then on the movement grew with astonishing rapidity. The removal
of governmental restrictions at the time of the Russian revolution of 1904 was followed by
a regular literary florescence. Streams of books and pamphlets, numerous newspapers, and a
solid periodical press, all attested the vigour and fecundity of the Tartar revival. The high
economic level of the Russian Tartars assured the material sinews of war. The Tartar oil millionaires
of Baku here played a conspicuous rôle, freely opening their capacious purses for the good
of the cause. The Russian Tartars also showed distinct political ability and soon gained the
confidence of their Turkoman cousins of Russian Central Asia, who were also stirring to the
breath of nationalism. The first Russian Duma contained a large Mohammedan group so enterprising
in spirit and so skilfully led that Russian public opinion became genuinely uneasy and encouraged
the government to diminish Tartar influence in Russian parliamentary life by summary curtailments
of Mohammedan representation.[161]

Of course the Russian Mohammedans were careful to proclaim their political loyalty to the Russian
Empire. Nevertheless, many earnest spirits revealed their secret aspirations by seeking a freer
and more fruitful field of labour in Turkish Stambul, where the Russian Tartars played a prominent
part in the Pan-Turk and Pan-Turanian movements within the Ottoman Empire. In fact, it was
a Volga Tartar, Yusuf Bey Akchura Oglu, who was the real founder of the first Pan-Turanian
society at Constantinople, and his well-known book, Three Political Systems, became the text
on which most subsequent Pan-Turanian writings have been based.[162]

Down to the Young-Turk revolution of 1908, Pan-Turanism was somewhat under a cloud at Stambul.
Sultan Abdul Hamid, as already remarked, was a Pan-Islamist and had a rooted aversion to all
nationalist movements. Accordingly, the Pan-Turanians, while not actually persecuted, were
never in the Sultan's favour. With the advent of Young-Turk nationalism to power, however,
all was changed. The "Ottomanizing" leaders of the new government listened eagerly to Pan-Turanian
preaching, and most of them became affiliated with the movement. It is interesting to note
that Russian Tartars continued to play a prominent part. The chief Pan-Turanian propagandist
was the able publicist Ahmed Bey Agayeff, a Volga Tartar. His well-edited organ, Turk Yurdu
(Turkish Home), penetrated to every corner of the Turko-Tartar world and exercised great influence
on the development of its public opinion.

Although leaders like Ahmed Bey Agayeff clearly visualized the entire Turanian world from Finland
to Manchuria as a potential whole, and were thus full-fledged "Pan-Turanians," their practical
efforts were at first confined to the closely related Turko-Tartar segment; that is, to the
Ottomans of Turkey, the Tartars of Russia, and the Turkomans of central Asia and Persia. Since
all these peoples were also Mohammedans, it follows that this propaganda had a religious as
well as a racial complexion, trending in many respects toward Pan-Islamism. Indeed, even disregarding
the religious factor, we may say that, though Pan-Turanian in theory, the movement was at that
time in practice little more than "Pan-Turkism."

It was the Balkan wars of 1912-13 which really precipitated full-fledged Pan-Turanism. Those
wars not merely expelled the Turks from the Balkans and turned their eyes increasingly toward
Asia, but also roused such hatred of the victorious Serbs in the breasts of Hungarians and
Bulgarians that both these peoples proclaimed their "Turanian" origins and toyed with ideas
of "Pan-Turanian" solidarity against the menace of Serbo-Russian "Pan-Slavism."[163] The Pan-Turanian
thinkers were assuredly evolving a body of doctrine grandiose enough to satisfy the most ambitious
hopes. Emphasizing the great virility and nerve-force everywhere patent in the Turanian stocks,
these thinkers saw in Turan the dominant race of the morrow. Zealous students of Western evolutionism
and ethnology, they were evolving their own special theory of race grandeur and decadence.
According to Pan-Turanian teaching, the historic peoples of southern Asia--Arabs, Persians,
and Hindus--are hopelessly degenerate. As for the Europeans, they have recently passed their
apogee, and, exhausted by the consuming fires of modern industrialism, are already entering
upon their decline. It is the Turanians, with their inherent virility and steady nerves unspoiled
by the wear and tear of Western civilization, who must be the great dynamic of the future.
Indeed, some Pan-Turanian thinkers go so far as to proclaim that it is the sacred mission of
their race to revitalize a whole senescent, worn-out world by the saving infusion of regenerative
Turanian blood.[164]

Of course the Pan-Turanians recognized that anything like a realization of their ambitious
dreams was dependent upon the virtual destruction of the Russian Empire. In fact, Russia, with
its Tartars, Turkomans, Kirghiz, Finns, and numerous kindred tribes, was in Pan-Turanian eyes
merely a Slav alluvium laid with varying thickness over a Turanian subsoil. This turning of
Russia into a vast "Turania irredenta" was certainly an ambitious order. Nevertheless, the
Pan-Turanians counted on powerful Western backing. They realized that Germany and Austria-Hungary
were fast drifting toward war with Russia, and they felt that such a cataclysm, however perilous,
would also offer most glorious possibilities.

These Pan-Turanian aspirations undoubtedly had a great deal to do with driving Turkey into
the Great War on the side of the Central Empires. Certainly, Enver Pasha and most of the other
leaders of the governing group had long been more or less affiliated with the Pan-Turanian
movement. Of course the Turkish Government had more than one string to its bow. It tried to
drive Pan-Turanism and Pan-Islamism in double harness, using the "Holy War" agitation for pious
Moslems everywhere, while it redoubled Pan-Turanian propaganda among the Turko-Tartar peoples.
A good statement of Pan-Turanian ambitions in the early years of the war is that of the publicist
Tekin Alp in his book, The Turkish and Pan-Turkish Ideal, published in 1915. Says Tekin Alp:
"With the crushing of Russian despotism by the brave German, Austrian, and Turkish armies,
30,000,000 to 40,000,000 Turanians will receive their independence. With the 10,000,000 Ottoman
Turks, this will form a nation of 50,000,000, advancing toward a great civilization which may
perhaps be compared with that of Germany, in that it will have the strength and energy to rise
even higher. In some ways it will be superior to the degenerate French and English civilizations."

With the collapse of Russia after the Bolshevik revolution at the end of 1917, Pan-Turanian
hopes knew no bounds. So certain were they of triumph that they began to flout even their German
allies, thus revealing that hatred of all Europeans which had always lurked at the back of
their minds. A German staff-officer thus describes the table-talk of Halil Pasha, the Turkish
commander of the Mesopotamian front and uncle of Enver: "First of all, every tribe with a Turkish
mother-tongue must be forged into a single nation. The national principle was supreme; so it
was the design to conquer Turkestan, the cradle of Turkish power and glory. That was the first
task. From that base connections must be established with the Yakutes of Siberia, who were
considered, on account of their linguistic kinship, the remotest outposts of the Turkish blood
to the eastward. The closely related Tartar tribes of the Caucasus must naturally join this
union. Armenians and Georgians, who form minority nationalities in that territory, must either
submit voluntarily or be subjugated.... Such a great compact Turkish Empire, exercising hegemony
over all the Islamic world, would exert a powerful attraction upon Afghanistan and Persia....
In December, 1917, when the Turkish front in Mesopotamia threatened to yield, Halil Pasha said
to me, half vexed, half jokingly: 'Supposing we let the English have this cursed desert hole
and go to Turkestan, where I will erect a new empire for my little boy.' He had named his youngest
son after the great conqueror and destroyer, Jenghiz Khan."[165]

As a matter of fact, the summer of 1918 saw Transcaucasia and northern Persia overrun by Turkish
armies headed for Central Asia. Then came the German collapse in the West and the end of the
war, apparently dooming Turkey to destruction. For the moment the Pan-Turanians were stunned.
Nevertheless, their hopes were soon destined to revive, as we shall presently see.

Before describing the course of events in the Near East since 1918, which need to be treated
as a unit, let us go back to consider the earlier developments of the other "second-stage"
nationalist movements in the Moslem world. We have already seen how, concurrently with Turkish
nationalism, Arab nationalism was likewise evolving into the "racial" stage, the ideal being
a great "Pan-Arab" empire, embracing not merely the ethnically Arab peninsula-homeland, Syria,
and Mesopotamia, but also the Arabized regions of Egypt, Tripoli, French North Africa, and
the Sudan.

Pan-Arabism has not been as intellectually developed as Pan-Turanism, though its general trend
is so similar that its doctrines need not be discussed in detail. One important difference
between the two movements is that Pan-Arabism is much more religious and Pan-Islamic in character,
the Arabs regarding themselves as "The Chosen People" divinely predestined to dominate the
whole Islamic world. Pan-Arabism also lacks Pan-Turanism's unity of direction. There have been
two distinct intellectual centres--Syria and Egypt. In fact, it is in Egypt that Pan-Arab schemes
have been most concretely elaborated, the Egyptian programme looking toward a reunion of the
Arab-speaking lands under the Khedive--perhaps at first subject to British tutelage, though
ultimately throwing off British control by concerted Pan-Arab action. The late Khedive Abbas
Hilmi, deposed by the British in 1914, is supposed to have encouraged this movement.[166]

The Great War undoubtedly stimulated Pan-Arabism, especially by its creation of an independent
Arab kingdom in the Hedjaz with claims on Syria and Mesopotamia. However, the various Arab
peoples are so engrossed with local independence agitations looking toward the elimination
of British, French, and Italian control from specific regions like Egypt, Syria, Mesopotamia,
and Tripoli, that the larger concept of Pan-Arabism, while undoubtedly an underlying factor,
is not to-day in the foreground of Arab nationalist programmes.

Furthermore, as I have already said, Pan-Arabism is interwoven with the non-racial concepts
of Pan-Islamism and "Pan-Islamic Nationalism." This latter concept may seem a rather grotesque
contradiction of terms. So it may be to us Westerners. But it is not necessarily so to Eastern
minds. However eagerly the East may have seized upon our ideas of nationality and patriotism,
those ideas have entered minds already full of concepts like Islamic solidarity and the brotherhood
of all True Believers. The result has been a subtle coloration of the new by the old, so that
even when Moslems use our exact words, "nationality," "race," etc., their conception of what
those words mean is distinctly different from ours. These differences in fact extend to all
political concepts. Take the word "State," for example. The typical Mohammedan state is not,
like the typical Western state, a sharply defined unit, with fixed boundaries and full sovereignty
exercised everywhere within its frontiers. It is more or less an amorphous mass, with a central
nucleus, the seat of an authority which shades off into ill-defined, anarchic independence.
Of course, in the past half-century, most Mohammedan states have tried to remodel themselves
on Western lines, but the traditional tendency is typified by Afghanistan, where the tribes
of the Indian north-west frontier, though nominally Afghan, enjoy practical independence and
have frequently conducted private wars of their own against the British which the Ameer has
disavowed and for which the British have not held him responsible.

Similarly with the term "Nationality." In Moslem eyes, a man need not be born or formally naturalized
to be a member of a certain Moslem "Nationality." Every Moslem is more or less at home in every
part of Islam, so a man may just happen into a particular country and thereby become at once,
if he wishes, a national in good standing. For example: "Egypt for the Egyptians" does not
mean precisely what we think. Let a Mohammedan of Algiers or Damascus settle in Cairo. Nothing
prevents him from acting, and being considered as, an "Egyptian Nationalist" in the full sense
of the term. This is because Islam has always had a distinct idea of territorial as well as
spiritual unity. All predominantly Mohammedan lands are believed by Moslems to constitute "Dar-ul-Islam,"[167]
which is in a sense the joint possession of all Moslems and which all Moslems are jointly obligated
to defend. That is the reason why alien encroachments on any Moslem land are instantly resented
by Moslems at the opposite end of the Moslem world, who could have no possible material interest
in the matter.

We are now better able to understand how many Moslem thinkers, combining the Western concept
of nationality with the traditional idea of Dar-ul-Islam, have evolved a new synthesis of the
two, expressed by the term "Pan-Islamic Nationalism." This trend of thought is well set forth
by an Indian Moslem, who writes: "In the West, the whole science of government rests on the
axiom that the essential divisions of humanity are determined by considerations of race and
geography; but for Orientals these ideas are very far from being axioms. For them, humanity
divides according to religious beliefs. The unity is no longer the nation or the State, but
the 'Millah.'[168] Europeans see in this a counterpart to their Middle Ages--a stage which
Islam should pass through on its way to modernity in the Western sense. How badly they understand
how religion looks to a Mohammedan! They forget that Islam is not only a religion, but also
a social organization, a form of culture, and a nationality.... The principle of Islamic fraternity--of
Pan-Islamism, if you prefer the word--is analogous to patriotism, but with this difference:
this Islamic fraternity, though resulting in identity of laws and customs, has not (like Western
Nationality) been brought about by community of race, country, or history, but has been received,
as we believe, directly from God."[169]

Pan-Islamic nationalism is a relatively recent phenomenon and has not been doctrinally worked
out. Nevertheless it is visible throughout the Moslem world and is gaining in strength, particularly
in regions like North Africa and India, where strong territorial patriotism has, for one reason
or another, not developed. As a French writer remarks: "Mohammedan Nationalism is not an isolated
or sporadic agitation. It is a broad tide, which is flowing over the whole Islamic world of
Asia, India, and Africa. Nationalism is a new form of the Mohammedan faith, which, far from
being undermined by contact with European civilization, seems to have discovered a surplus
of religious fervour, and which, in its desire for expansion and proselytism, tends to realize
its unity by rousing the fanaticism of the masses, by directing the political tendencies of
the élites, and by sowing everywhere the seeds of a dangerous agitation."[170] Pan-Islamic
nationalism may thus, in the future, become a major factor which will have to be seriously
reckoned with.[171]

                                 III

So ends our survey of nationalist movements in the Moslem world. Given such a tangled complex
of aspirations, enormously stimulated by Armageddon, it was only natural that the close of
the Great War should have left the Orient a veritable welter of unrest. Obviously, anything
like a constructive settlement could have been effected only by the exercise of true statesmanship
of the highest order. Unfortunately, the Versailles peace conference was devoid of true statesmanship,
and the resulting "settlement" not only failed to give peace to Europe but disclosed an attitude
toward the East inspired by the pre-war spirit of predatory imperialism and cynical Realpolitik.
Apparently oblivious of the mighty psychological changes which the war had wrought, and of
the consequent changes of attitude and policy required, the victorious Allies proceeded to
treat the Orient as though Armageddon were a skirmish and Asia the sleeping giant of a century ago.

In fact, disregarding both the general pronouncements of liberal principles and the specific
promises of self-determination for Near Eastern peoples which they had made during the war,
the Allies now paraded a series of secret treaties (negotiated between themselves during those
same war-years when they had been so unctuously orating), and these secret treaties clearly
divided up the Ottoman Empire among the victors, in absolute disregard of the wishes of the
inhabitants. The purposes of the Allies were further revealed by the way in which the Versailles
conference refused to receive the representatives of Persia (theoretically still independent),
but kept them cooling their heels in Paris while British pressure at Teheran forced the Shah's
government to enter into an "agreement" that made Persia a virtual protectorate of the British
Empire. As for the Egyptians, who had always protested against the protectorate proclaimed
by England solely on its own initiative in 1914, the conference refused to pay any attention
to their delegates, and they were given to understand that the conference regarded the British
protectorate over Egypt as a fait accompli. The upshot was that, as a result of the war, European
domination over the Near and Middle East was riveted rather than relaxed.

But the strangest feature of this strange business remains to be told. One might imagine that
the Allied leaders would have realized that they were playing a dangerous game, which could
succeed only by close team-work and quick action. As a matter of fact, the very reverse was
the case. After showing their hand, and thereby filling the East with disillusionment, despair,
and fury, the Allies proceeded to quarrel over the spoils. Nearly two years passed before England,
France, and Italy were able to come to an even superficial agreement as to the partition of
the Ottoman Empire, and meanwhile they had been bickering and intriguing against each other
all over the Near East. This was sheer madness. The destined victims were thereby informed
that European domination rested not only on disregard of the moral "imponderables" but on diplomatic
bankruptcy as well. The obvious reflection was that a domination resting on such rotten foundations
might well be overthrown.

That, at any rate, is the way multitudes of Orientals read the situation, and their rebellious
feelings were stimulated not merely by consciousness of their own strength and Western disunion,
but also by the active encouragement of a new ally--Bolshevik Russia. Russian Bolshevism had
thrown down the gauntlet to Western civilization, and in the desperate struggle which was now
on, the Bolshevik leaders saw with terrible glee the golden opportunities vouchsafed them in
the East. The details of Bolshevik activity in the Orient will be considered in the chapter
on Social Unrest. Suffice it to remember here that Bolshevik propaganda is an important element
in that profound ferment which extends over the whole Near and Middle East; a ferment which
has reduced some regions to the verge of chaos and which threatens to increase rather than
diminish in the immediate future.

To relate all the details of contemporary Eastern unrest would fill a book in itself. Let us
here content ourselves with considering the chief centres of this unrest, remembering always
that it exists throughout the Moslem world from French North Africa to Central Asia and the
Dutch Indies. The centres to be here surveyed will be Egypt, Persia, and the Turkish and Arab
regions of the former Ottoman Empire. A fifth main centre of unrest--India--will be discussed
in the next chapter.

The gathering storm first broke in Egypt. During the war Egypt, flooded with British troops
and subjected to the most stringent martial law, had remained quiet, but it was the quiet of
repression, not of passivity. We have seen how, with the opening years of the twentieth century,
virtually all educated Egyptians had become more or less impregnated with nationalist ideas,
albeit a large proportion of them believed in evolutionary rather than revolutionary methods.
The chief hope of the moderates had been the provisional character of English rule. So long
as England declared herself merely in "temporary occupation" of Egypt, anything was possible.
But the proclamation of the protectorate in 1914, which declared Egypt part of the British
Empire, entirely changed the situation. Even the most moderate nationalists felt that the future
was definitely prejudged against them and that the door had been irrevocably closed upon their
ultimate aspirations. The result was that the moderates were driven over to the extremists
and were ready to join the latter in violent action as soon as opportunity might offer.

The extreme nationalists had of course protested bitterly against the protectorate from the
first, and the close of the war saw a delegation composed of both nationalist wings proceed
to Paris to lay their claims before the Versailles conference. Rebuffed by the conference,
which recognized the British protectorate over Egypt as part of the peace settlement, the Egyptian
delegation issued a formal protest warning of trouble. This protest read:

"We have knocked at door after door, but have received no answer. In spite of the definite
pledges given by the statesmen at the head of the nations which won the war, to the effect
that their victory would mean the triumph of Right over Might and the establishment of the
principle of self-determination for small nations, the British protectorate over Egypt was
written into the treaties of Versailles and Saint Germain without the people of Egypt being
consulted as to their political status.

"This crime against our nation, a breach of good faith on the part of the Powers who have declared
that they are forming in the same Treaty a Society of Nations, will not be consummated without
a solemn warning that the people of Egypt consider the decision taken at Paris null and void....
If our voice is not heard, it will be only because the blood already shed has not been enough
to overthrow the old world-order and give birth to a new world-order."[172]

Before these lines had appeared in type, trouble in Egypt had begun. Simultaneously with the
arrival of the Egyptian delegation at Paris, the nationalists in Egypt laid their demands before
the British authorities. The nationalist programme demanded complete self-government for Egypt,
leaving England only a right of supervision over the public debt and the Suez Canal. The nationalists'
strength was shown by the fact that these proposals were indorsed by the Egyptian cabinet recently
appointed by the Khedive at British suggestion. In fact, the Egyptian Premier, Roushdi Pasha,
asked to be allowed to go to London with some of his colleagues for a hearing. This placed
the British authorities in Egypt in a distinctly trying position. However, they determined
to stand firm, and accordingly answered that England could not abandon its responsibility for
the continuance of order and good government in Egypt, now a British protectorate and an integral
part of the empire, and that no useful purpose would be served by allowing the Egyptian leaders
to go to London and there advance immoderate demands which could not possibly be entertained.

The English attitude was firm. The Egyptian attitude was no less firm. The cabinet at once
resigned, no new cabinet could be formed, and the British High Commissioner, General Allenby,
was forced to assume unveiled control. Meanwhile the nationalists announced that they were
going to hold a plebiscite to determine the attitude of the Egyptian people. Forbidden by the
British authorities, the plebiscite was nevertheless illegally held, and resulted, according
to the nationalists, in an overwhelming popular indorsement of their demands. This defiant
attitude determined the British on strong action. Accordingly, in the spring of 1919, most
of the nationalist leaders were seized and deported to Malta.

Egypt's answer was an explosion. From one end of the country to the other, Egypt flamed into
rebellion. Everywhere it was the same story. Railways and telegraph lines were systematically
cut. Trains were stalled and looted. Isolated British officers and soldiers were murdered.
In Cairo alone, thousands of houses were sacked by the mob. Soon the danger was rendered more
acute by the irruption out of the desert of swarms of Bedouin Arabs bent on plunder. For a
few days Egypt trembled on the verge of anarchy, and the British Government admitted in Parliament
that all Egypt was in a state of insurrection.

The British authorities met the crisis with vigour and determination. The number of British
troops in Egypt was large, trusty black regiments were hurried up from the Sudan, and the well-disciplined
Egyptian native police generally obeyed orders. After several weeks of sharp fighting and heavy
loss of life, Egypt was again gotten under control.

Order was restored, but the outlook was ominous in the extreme. Only the presence of massed
British and Sudanese troops enabled order to be maintained. Even the application of stern martial
law could not prevent continuous nationalist demonstrations, sometimes ending in riots, fighting,
and heavy loss of life. The most serious aspect of the situation was that not only were the
upper classes solidly nationalist, but they had behind them the hitherto passive fellah millions.
The war-years had borne hard on the fellaheen. Military exigencies had compelled Britain to
conscript fully a million of them for forced labour in the Near East and even in Europe, while
there had also been wholesale requisitions of grain, fodder, and other supplies. These things
had caused profound discontent and had roused among the fellaheen not merely passive dislike
but active hatred of British rule. Authoritative English experts on Egypt were seriously alarmed.
Shortly after the riots Sir William Willcocks, the noted engineer, said in a public statement:
"The keystone of the British occupation of Egypt was the fact that the fellaheen were for it.
The Sheikhs, Omdehs, governing classes, and high religious heads might or might not be hostile,
but nothing counted for much while the millions of fellaheen were solid for the occupation.
The British have undoubtedly to-day lost the friendship and confidence of the fellaheen." And
Sir Valentine Chirol stated in the London Times: "We are now admittedly face to face with the
ominous fact that for the first time since the British occupation large numbers of the Egyptian
fellaheen, who owe far more to us than does any other class of Egyptians, have been worked
up into a fever of bitter discontent and hatred. Very few people at home, even in responsible
quarters, have, I think, the slightest conception of the very dangerous degree of tension which
has now been reached out here."

All foreign observers were impressed by the nationalist feeling which united all creeds and
classes. Regarding the monster demonstrations held during the summer of 1919, an Italian publicist
wrote: "For the first time in history, the banners flown showed the Crescent interwoven with
the Cross. Until a short time ago the two elements were as distinct from each other as each
of them was from the Jews. To-day, precisely as has happened in India among the Mussulmans
and the Hindus, every trace of religious division has departed. All Egyptians are enrolled
under a single banner. Every one behind his mask of silence is burning with the same faith,
and confident that his cause will ultimately triumph."[173] And a Frenchwoman, a lifelong resident
of Egypt, wrote: "We have seen surprising things in this country, so often divided by party
and religious struggles: Coptic priests preaching in mosques, ulemas preaching in Christian
churches; Syrian, Maronite, or Mohammedan students; women, whether of Turkish or Egyptian blood,
united in the same fervour, the same ardent desire to see break over their ancient land the
radiant dawn of independence. For those who, like myself, have known the Egypt of Tewfik, the
attitude of the women these last few years is the most surprising transformation that has happened
in the valley of the Nile. One should have seen the nonchalant life, the almost complete indifference
to anything savouring of politics, to appreciate the enormous steps taken in the last few months.
For example: last summer a procession of women demonstrators was surrounded by British soldiers
with fixed bayonets. One of the women, threatened by a soldier, turned on him, baring her breast,
and cried: 'Kill me, then, so that there may be another Miss Cavell.'"[174]

Faced by this unprecedented nationalist fervour, Englishmen on the spot were of two opinions.
Some, like Sir William Willcocks and Sir Valentine Chirol, stated that extensive concessions
must be made.[175] Other qualified observers asserted that concessions would be weakness and
would spell disaster. Said Sir M. McIlwraith: "Five years of a Nationalist régime would lead
to hopeless chaos and disorder.... If Egypt is not to fall back into the morass of bankruptcy
and anarchy from which we rescued her in 1882, with the still greater horrors of Bolshevism,
of which there are already sinister indications, superadded, Britain must not loosen her control."[176]
In England the Egyptian situation caused grave disquietude, and in the summer of 1919 the British
Government announced the appointment of a commission of inquiry headed by Lord Milner to investigate
fully into Egyptian affairs.

The appointment was a wise one. Lord Milner was one of the ablest figures in British political
life, a man of long experience with imperial problems, including that of Egypt, and possessed
of a temperament equally remote from the doctrinaire liberal or the hidebound conservative.
In short, Lord Milner was a realist, in the true sense of the word, as his action soon proved.
Arriving in Egypt at the beginning of 1920, Lord Milner and his colleagues found themselves
confronted with a most difficult situation. In Egypt the word had gone forth to boycott the
commission, and not merely nationalist politicians but also religious leaders like the Grand
Mufti refused even to discuss matters unless the commissioners would first agree to Egyptian
independence. This looked like a deadlock. Nevertheless, by infinite tact and patience, Lord
Milner finally got into free and frank discussion with Zagloul Pasha and the other responsible
nationalist leaders.

His efforts were undoubtedly helped by certain developments within Egypt itself. In Egypt,
as elsewhere in the East, there were appearing symptoms not merely of political but also of
social unrest. New types of agitators were springing up, preaching to the populace the most
extreme revolutionary doctrines. These youthful agitators disquieted the regular nationalist
leaders, who felt themselves threatened both as party chiefs and as men of social standing
and property. The upshot was that, by the autumn of 1920, Lord Milner and Zagloul Pasha had
agreed upon the basis of what looked like a genuine compromise. According to the intimations
then given out to the press, and later confirmed by the nature of Lord Milner's official report,
the lines of the tentative agreement ran as follows: England was to withdraw her protectorate
and was to declare Egypt independent. This independence was qualified to about the same extent
that Cuba's is toward the United States. Egypt was to have complete self-government, both the
British garrison and British civilian officials being withdrawn. Egypt was, however, to make
a perpetual treaty of alliance with Great Britain, was to agree not to make treaties with other
Powers save with Britain's consent, and was to grant Britain a military and naval station for
the protection of the Suez Canal and of Egypt itself in case of sudden attack by foreign enemies.
The vexed question of the Sudan was left temporarily open.

These proposals bore the earmarks of genuinely constructive compromise. Unfortunately, they
were not at once acted upon.[177] Both in England and in Egypt they roused strong opposition.
In England adverse official influences held up the commission's report till February, 1921.
In Egypt the extreme nationalists denounced Zagloul Pasha as a traitor, though moderate opinion
seemed substantially satisfied. The commission's report, as finally published, declared that
the grant of self-government to Egypt could not be safely postponed; that the nationalist spirit
could not be extinguished; that an attempt to govern Egypt in the teeth of a hostile people
would be "a difficult and disgraceful task"; and that it would be a great misfortune if the
present opportunity for a settlement were lost. However, the report was not indorsed by the
British Government in its entirety, and Lord Milner forthwith resigned. As for Zagloul Pasha,
he still maintains his position as nationalist leader, but his authority has been gravely shaken.
Such is the situation of Egypt at this present writing: a situation frankly not so encouraging
as it was last year.

Meanwhile the storm which had begun in Egypt had long since spread to other parts of the Near
East. In fact, by the opening months of 1920, the storm-centre had shifted to the Ottoman Empire.
For this the Allies themselves were largely to blame. Of course a constructive settlement of
these troubled regions would have been very difficult. Still, it might not have proved impossible
if Allied policy had been fair and above-board. The close of the war found the various peoples
of the Ottoman Empire hopeful that the liberal war-aims professed by the Allied spokesmen would
be redeemed. The Arab elements were notably hopeful, because they had been given a whole series
of Allied promises (shortly to be repudiated, as we shall presently see), while even the beaten
Turks were not entirely bereft of hope in the future. Besides the general pronouncements of
liberal treatment as formulated in the "Fourteen Points" programme of President Wilson and
indorsed by the Allies, the Turks had pledges of a more specific character, notably by Premier
Lloyd George, who, on January 5, 1918, had said: "Nor are we fighting to deprive Turkey of
its capital or of the rich and renowned lands of Asia Minor and Thrace, which are predominantly
Turkish in race." In other words, the Turks were given unequivocally to understand that, while
their rule over non-Turkish regions like the Arab provinces must cease, the Turkish regions
of the empire were not to pass under alien rule, but were to form a Turkish national state.
The Turks did not know about a series of secret treaties between the Allies, begun in 1915,
which partitioned practically the whole of Asia Minor between the Allied Powers. These were
to come out a little later. For the moment the Turks might hope.

In the case of the Arabs there were far brighter grounds for nationalist hopes--and far darker
depths of Allied duplicity. We have already mentioned the Arab revolt of 1916, which, beginning
in the Hedjaz under the leadership of the Shereef of Mecca, presently spread through all the
Arab provinces of the Ottoman Empire and contributed so largely to the collapse of Turkish
resistance. This revolt was, however, not a sudden, unpremeditated thing. It had been carefully
planned, and was due largely to Allied backing--and Allied promises. From the very beginning
of the war Arab nationalist malcontents had been in touch with the British authorities in Egypt.
They were warmly welcomed and encouraged in their separatist schemes, because an Arab rebellion
would obviously be of invaluable assistance to the British in safeguarding Egypt and the Suez
Canal, to say nothing of an advance into Turkish territory.

The Arabs, however, asked not merely material aid but also definite promises that their rebellion
should be rewarded by the formation of an Arab state embracing the Arab provinces of the Ottoman
Empire. Unfortunately for Arab nationalist aspirations, the British and French Governments
had their own ideas as to the future of Turkey's Arab provinces. Both England and France had
long possessed "spheres of influence" in those regions. The English sphere was in southern
Mesopotamia at the head of the Persian Gulf. The French sphere was the Lebanon, a mountainous
district in northern Syria just inland from the Mediterranean coast, where the population,
known as Maronites, were Roman Catholics, over whom France had long extended her diplomatic
protection. Of course both these districts were legally Turkish territory. Also, both were
small in area. But "spheres of influence" are elastic things. Under favourable circumstances
they are capable of sudden expansion to an extraordinary degree. Such a circumstance was the
Great War. Accordingly the British and French Foreign Offices put their heads together and
on March 5, 1915, the two governments signed a secret treaty by the terms of which France was
given a "predominant position" in Syria and Britain a predominant position in Mesopotamia.
No definite boundaries were then assigned, but the intent was to stake out claims which would
partition Turkey's Arab provinces between England and France.

Naturally the existence of this secret treaty was an embarrassment to the British officials
in Egypt in their negotiations with the Arabs. However, an Arab rebellion was too valuable
an asset to be lost, and the British negotiators finally evolved a formula which satisfied
the Arab leaders. On October 25, 1915, the Shereef of Mecca's representative at Cairo was given
a document by the Governor-General of Egypt, Sir Henry McMahon, in which Great Britain undertook,
conditional upon an Arab revolt, to recognize the independence of the Arabs of the Ottoman
Empire except in southern Mesopotamia, where British interests required special measures of
administrative control, and also except areas where Great Britain was "not free to act without
detriment to the interests of France." This last clause was of course a "joker." However, it
achieved its purpose. The Arabs, knowing nothing about the secret treaty, supposed it referred
merely to the restricted district of the Lebanon. They went home jubilant, to prepare the revolt
which broke out next year.

The revolt began in November, 1916. It might not have begun at all had the Arabs known what
had happened the preceding May. In that month England and France signed another secret treaty,
the celebrated Sykes-Picot Agreement. This agreement definitely partitioned Turkey's Arab provinces
along the lines suggested in the initial secret treaty of the year before. By the Sykes-Picot
Agreement most of Mesopotamia was to be definitely British, while the Syrian coast from Tyre
to Alexandretta was to be definitely French, together with extensive Armenian and Asia Minor
regions to the northward. Palestine was to be "international," albeit its chief seaport, Haifa,
was to be British, and the implication was that Palestine fell within the English sphere. As
to the great hinterland lying between Mesopotamia and the Syrian coast, it was to be "independent
Arab under two spheres of influence," British and French; the French sphere embracing all the
rest of Syria from Aleppo to Damascus, the English sphere embracing all the rest of Mesopotamia--the
region about Mosul. In other words, the independence promised the Arabs by Sir Henry McMahon
had vanished into thin air.

This little shift behind the scenes was of course not communicated to the Arabs. On the contrary,
the British did everything possible to stimulate Arab nationalist hopes--this being the best
way to extract their fighting zeal against the Turks. The British Government sent the Arabs
a number of picked intelligence officers, notably a certain Colonel Lawrence, an extraordinary
young man who soon gained unbounded influence over the Arab chiefs and became known as "The
Soul of the Arabian Revolution."[178] These men, chosen for their knowledge of, and sympathy
for, the Arabs, were not informed about the secret treaties, so that their encouragement of
Arab zeal might not be marred by any lack of sincerity. Similarly, the British generals were
prodigal of promises in their proclamations.[179] The climax of this blessed comedy occurred
at the very close of the war, when the British and French Governments issued the following
joint declaration which was posted throughout the Arab provinces: "The aim which France and
Great Britain have in view in waging in the East the war let loose upon the world by German
ambition, is to insure the complete and final emancipation of all those peoples, so long oppressed
by Turks, and to establish national governments and administrations which shall derive their
authority from the initiative and free will of the people themselves."

This climax was, however, followed by a swift dénouement. The war was over, the enemy was beaten,
the comedy was ended, the curtain was rung down, and on that curtain the Arabs read--the inner
truth of things. French troops appeared to occupy the Syrian coast, the secret treaties came
out, and the Arabs learned how they had been tricked. Black and bitter was their wrath. Probably
they would have exploded at once had it not been for their cool-headed chiefs, especially Prince
Feisal, the son of the Shereef of Mecca, who had proved himself a real leader of men during
the war and who had now attained a position of unquestioned authority. Feisal knew the Allies'
military strength and realized how hazardous war would be, especially at that time. Feeling
the moral strength of the Arab position, he besought his countrymen to let him plead Arabia's
cause before the impending peace conference, and he had his way. During the year 1919 the Arab
lands were quiet, though it was the quiet of suspense.

Prince Feisal pleaded his case before the peace conference with eloquence and dignity. But
Feisal failed. Lloyd George might utter felicitous phrases such as "Arab forces have redeemed
the pledges given to Great Britain, and we should redeem our pledges."[181] The Arabs had read
the secret treaties. "In vain is the net spread in the sight of any bird." The game no longer
worked. The Arabs knew that they must rely on their own efforts, either in diplomacy or war.

Feisal still counselled peace. He was probably influenced to this not merely by the risks of
armed resistance but also by the fact that the Allies were now quarrelling among themselves.
These quarrels of course extended all over the Near East, but there was none more bitter than
the quarrel which had broken out between England and France over the division of the Arab spoils.
This dispute originated in French dissatisfaction with the secret treaties. No sooner had the
Sykes-Picot Agreement been published than large and influential sections of French opinion
began shouting that they had been duped. For generations French imperialists had had their
eye on Syria,[182] and since the beginning of the war the imperialist press had been conducting
an ardent propaganda for wholesale annexations in the Near East. "La Syrie intégrale!" "All
Syria!" was the cry. And this "all" included not merely the coast-strip assigned France by
the Sykes-Picot Agreement, but also Palestine and the vast Aleppo-Damascus hinterland right
across to the rich oil-fields of Mosul. To this entire region, often termed in French expansionist
circles "La France du Levant," the imperialists asserted that France had "imprescriptible historic
rights running back to the Crusades and even to Charlemagne." Syria was a "second Alsace,"
which held out its arms to France and would not be denied. It was also the indispensable fulcrum
of French world-policy. These imperialist aspirations had powerful backing in French Government
circles. For example, early in 1915, M. Leygues had said in the Chamber of Deputies: "The axis
of French policy is in the Mediterranean. One of its poles is in the West, at Algiers, Tunis,
and Morocco. The other must lie in the East, with Syria, Lebanon, Palestine."[183]

