FOLK-TALES OF NAPOLEON

NAPOLEONDER
  From the Russian

THE NAPOLEON OF THE PEOPLE
  From the French of Honoré de Balzac

Translated With Introduction By GEORGE KENNAN

1902

CONTENTS

NAPOLEONDER THE NAPOLEON OF THE PEOPLE

INTRODUCTION

Most of the literature that has its origin in the life and career of a great man may be grouped
and classified under two heads: history and biography. The part that relates to the man's actions,
and to the influence that such actions have had in shaping the destinies of peoples and states,
belongs in the one class; while the part that derives its interest mainly from the man's personality,
and deals chiefly with the mental and moral characteristics of which his actions were the outcome,
goes properly into the other. The value of the literature included in these two classes depends
almost wholly upon truth; that is, upon the precise correspondence of the statements made with
the real facts of the man's life and career. History is worse than useless if it does not accurately
chronicle and describe events; and biography is valueless and misleading if it does not truly
set forth individual character.

There is, however, a kind of great-man literature in which truth is comparatively unimportant,
and that is the literature of popular legend and tradition. Whether it purports to be historical
or biographical, or both, it derives its interest and value from the light that it throws upon
the temperament and character of the people who originate it, rather than from the amount of
truth contained in the statements that it makes about the man.

The folk-tales of Napoleon Bonaparte herewith presented, if judged from the viewpoint of the
historian or the biographer, are absurdly and grotesquely untrue; but to the anthropologist
and the student of human nature they are extremely valuable as self-revelations of national
character; and even to the historian and the biographer they have some interest as evidences
of the profoundly deep impression made by Napoleon's personality upon two great peoples--the
Russians and the French.

The first story, which is entitled "Napoleonder," is of Russian origin, and was put into literary
form, or edited, by Alexander Amphiteatrof of St. Petersburg. It originally appeared as a feuilleton
in the St. Petersburg "Gazette" of December 13, 1901. As a characteristic specimen of Russian
peasant folk-lore, it seems to me to have more than ordinary interest and value. The treatment
of the supernatural may seem, to Occidental readers, rather daring and irreverent, but it is
perfectly in harmony with the Russian peasant's anthropomorphic conception of Deity, and should
be taken with due allowance for the educational limitations of the story-teller and his auditors.
The Russian muzhik often brings God and the angels into his folk-tales, and does so without
the least idea of treating them disrespectfully. He makes them talk in his own language because
he has no other language; and if the talk seems a little grotesque and irreverent, it is due
to the low level of the narrator's literary culture, and not to any intention, on his part,
of treating God and the angels with levity. The whole aim of the story is a moral and religious
one. The narrator is trying to show that sympathy and mercy are better than selfish ambition,
and that war is not only immoral but irrational. The conversation between God, the angels,
and the Devil is a mere prologue, intended to bring Napoleon and Ivan-angel on the stage and
lay the foundation of the plot. The story-teller's keen sense of fun and humor is shown in
many little touches, but he never means to be irreverent. The whole legend is set forth in
the racy, idiomatic, highly elliptical language of the common Russian muzhik, and is therefore
extremely difficult of translation; but I have tried to preserve, as far as possible, the spirit
and flavor of the original.

The French story was first reduced to writing--or at least put into literary form--by Honoré
de Balzac, and appeared under the title of "The Napoleon of the People" in the third chapter
of Balzac's "Country Doctor." It purports to be the story of Napoleon's life and career as
related to a group of French peasants by one of his old soldiers--a man named Goguelat. It
covers more time chronologically than the Russian story does, and deals much more fully and
circumstantially with historical incidents and events: but it seems to me to be distinctly
inferior to the Russian tale in power of creative imagination, unity of conception, skill of
artistic treatment, and depth of human interest. The French peasant regards Napoleon merely
as a great leader and conqueror, "created to be the father of soldiers," and aided, if not
directly sent, by God, to show forth the power and the glory of France. The Russian peasant,
more thoughtful by nature as well as less excitable and combative in temperament, admits that
Napoleon was sent on earth by God, but connects him with one of the deep problems of life by
using him to show the divine nature of sympathy and pity, and the cruelty, immorality, and
unreasonableness of aggressive war. The only feature that the two tales have in common is the
recognition of the supernatural as a controlling factor in Napoleon's life. The French peasant
believes that he had a guiding star; that he was advised and directed by a familiar spirit
in the shape of a "Red Man"; and that he was saved from dangers and death by virtue of a secret
compact with the Supreme Being. The Russian peasant asserts that he was created by the Devil,
and that God, after having given him a soul by accident, first used him as a means of punishing
the Russian people for their sins, and then made him really a man by inspiring him with the
human feelings of sympathy and compassion. In the French story Napoleon appears as a great
military leader, whose life and career reflect honor and glory upon France. In the Russian
story he is merely the leading actor in a sort of moral drama, or historical mystery-play,
intended to show the divine nature of sympathy and compassion, the immorality of war, and the
essential solidarity and brotherhood of all mankind.

GEORGE KENNAN.

       *       *       *       *       *

NAPOLEONDER[1]

[Footnote 1: The Russian peasant's name for Napoleon Bonaparte. The final syllable "der" has
perhaps been added because to the ear of the peasant "Napoleon" sounds clipped and incomplete,
as "Alexan" would sound to us without the "der."]

Long ago--but not so very long ago; our grandfathers remember it--the Lord God wanted to punish
the people of the world for their wickedness. So he began to think how and by what means he
could punish them, and he called a council of his angels and archangels to talk about it. Says
the archangel Michael to the Lord God: "Shake them up, the recreants, with an earthquake."

"We've tried that," says the Lord God. "Once upon a time we jolted to pieces Sodom and Gomorrah,
but it didn't teach them anything. Since then pretty much all the towns have become Sodoms
and Gomorrahs."

"How about famine?" says the archangel Gabriel.

"It would be too bad for the babies," replies the Lord God. "Famine would kill the babies.
And, besides that, the cattle must have food--they're not to blame."

"Drown them with a flood," suggests Raphael.

"Clean impossible!" says the Lord God. "Because, in the first place, I took an oath once that
there should be no more floods, and I set the rainbow in the sky for an assurance. In the second
place, the rascally sinners have become cunning; they'll get on steamboats and sail all over
the flood."

