~The difference between oxygen and ozone.~ Experiments show that in changing oxygen into ozone
no other kind of matter is either added to the oxygen or withdrawn from it. The question arises
then, How can we account for the difference in their properties? It must be remembered that
in all changes we have to take into account energy as well as matter. By changing the amount
of energy in a substance we change its properties. That oxygen and ozone contain different
amounts of energy may be shown in a number of ways; for example, by the fact that the conversion
of ozone into oxygen is attended by the liberation of heat. The passage of the electric sparks
through oxygen has in some way changed the energy content of the element and thus it has acquired
new properties. Oxygen and ozone must, therefore, be regarded as identical so far as the kind
of matter of which they are composed is concerned. Their different properties are due to their
different energy contents.

~Allotropic states or forms of matter.~ Other elements besides oxygen may exist in more than
one form. These different forms of the same element are called allotropic states or forms of
the element. These forms differ not only in physical properties but also in their energy contents.
Elements often exist in a variety of forms which look quite different. These differences may
be due to accidental causes, such as the size or shape of the particles or the way in which
the element was prepared. Only such forms, however, as have different energy contents are properly
called allotropic forms.

MEASUREMENT OF GAS VOLUMES

~Standard conditions.~ It is a well-known fact that the volume occupied by a definite weight
of any gas can be altered by changing the temperature of the gas or the pressure to which it
is subjected. In measuring the volume of gases it is therefore necessary, for the sake of accuracy,
to adopt some standard conditions of temperature and pressure. The conditions agreed upon are
(1) a temperature of 0°, and (2) a pressure equal to the average pressure exerted by the atmosphere
at the sea level, that is, 1033.3 g. per square centimeter. These conditions of temperature
and pressure are known as the standard conditions, and when the volume of a gas is given it
is understood that the measurement was made under these conditions, unless it is expressly
stated otherwise. For example, the weight of a liter of oxygen has been given as 1.4285 g.
This means that one liter of oxygen, measured at a temperature of 0° and under a pressure of
1033.3 g. per square centimeter, weighs 1.4285 g.

The conditions which prevail in the laboratory are never the standard conditions. It becomes
necessary, therefore, to find a way to calculate the volume which a gas will occupy under standard
conditions from the volume which it occupies under any other conditions. This may be done in
accordance with the following laws.

~Law of Charles.~ This law expresses the effect which a change in the temperature of a gas
has upon its volume. It may be stated as follows: For every degree the temperature of a gas
rises above zero the volume of the gas is increased by 1/273 of the volume which it occupies
at zero; likewise for every degree the temperature of the gas falls below zero the volume of
the gas is decreased by 1/273 of the volume which it occupies at zero, provided in both cases
that the pressure to which the gas is subjected remains constant.

If V represents the volume of gas at 0°, then the volume at 1° will be V + 1/273 V; at 2° it
will be V + 2/273 V; or, in general, the volume v, at the temperature t, will be expressed
by the formula

    (1) v = V + t/273 V,

    or (2) v = V(1 + (t/273)).

Since 1/273 = 0.00366, the formula may be written

    (3) v = V(1 + 0.00366t).

Since the value of V (volume under standard conditions) is the one usually sought, it is convenient
to transpose the equation to the following form:

    (4) V = v/(1 + 0.00366t).

The following problem will serve as an illustration of the application of this equation.

The volume of a gas at 20° is 750 cc.; find the volume it will occupy at 0°, the pressure remaining
constant.

In this case, v = 750 cc. and t = 20. By substituting these values, equation (4) becomes

    V = 750/(1 + 0.00366 × 20) = 698.9 cc.

~Law of Boyle.~ This law expresses the relation between the volume occupied by a gas and the
pressure to which it is subjected. It may be stated as follows: The volume of a gas is inversely
proportional to the pressure under which it is measured, provided the temperature of the gas
remains constant.

If V represents the volume when subjected to a pressure P and v represents its volume when
the pressure is changed to p, then, in accordance with the above law, V : v :: p : P, or VP
= vp. In other words, for a given weight of a gas the product of the numbers representing its
volume and the pressure to which it is subjected is a constant.

Since the pressure of the atmosphere at any point is indicated by the barometric reading, it
is convenient in the solution of the problems to substitute the latter for the pressure measured
in grams per square centimeter. The average reading of the barometer at the sea level is 760
mm., which corresponds to a pressure of 1033.3 g. per square centimeter. The following problem
will serve as an illustration of the application of Boyle's law.

A gas occupies a volume of 500 cc. in a laboratory where the barometric reading is 740 mm.
What volume would it occupy if the atmospheric pressure changed so that the reading became 750 mm.?

Substituting the values in the equation VP = vp, we have 500 × 740 = v × 750, or v = 493.3 cc.

~Variations in the volume of a gas due to changes both in temperature and pressure.~ Inasmuch
as corrections must be made as a rule for both temperature and pressure, it is convenient to
combine the equations given above for the corrections for each, so that the two corrections
may be made in one operation. The following equation is thus obtained:

    (5) V{s} = vp/(760(1 + 0.00366t)),

in which V{s} represents the volume of a gas under standard conditions and v, p, and t the
volume, pressure, and temperature respectively at which the gas was actually measured.

The following problem will serve to illustrate the application of this equation.

A gas having a temperature of 20° occupies a volume of 500 cc. when subjected to a pressure
indicated by a barometric reading of 740 mm. What volume would this gas occupy under standard
conditions?

In this problem v = 500, p = 740, and t = 20. Substituting these values in the above equation,
we get

    V{s} = (500 × 740)/(760 (1 + 0.00366 × 20)) = 453.6 cc.

~Variations in the volume of a gas due to the pressure of aqueous vapor.~ In many cases gases
are collected over water, as explained under the preparation of oxygen. In such cases there
is present in the gas a certain amount of water vapor. This vapor exerts a definite pressure,
which acts in opposition to the atmospheric pressure and which therefore must be subtracted
from the latter in determining the effective pressure upon the gas. Thus, suppose we wish to
determine the pressure to which the gas in tube A (Fig. 8) is subjected. The tube is raised
or lowered until the level of the water inside and outside the tube is the same. The atmosphere
presses down upon the surface of the water (as indicated by the arrows), thus forcing the water
upward within the tube with a pressure equal to the atmospheric pressure. The full force of
this upward pressure, however, is not spent in compressing the gas within the tube, for since
it is collected over water it contains a certain amount of water vapor. This water vapor exerts
a pressure (as indicated by the arrow within the tube) in opposition to the upward pressure.
It is plain, therefore, that the effective pressure upon the gas is equal to the atmospheric
pressure less the pressure exerted by the aqueous vapor. The pressure exerted by the aqueous
vapor increases with the temperature. The figures representing the extent of this pressure
(often called the tension of aqueous vapor) are given in the Appendix. They express the pressure
or tension in millimeters of mercury, just as the atmospheric pressure is expressed in millimeters
of mercury. Representing the pressure of the aqueous vapor by a, formula (5) becomes

    (6) V{s} = v(p - a)/(760(1 + 0.00366t)).

The following problem will serve to illustrate the method of applying the correction for the
pressure of the aqueous vapor.

The volume of a gas measured over water in a laboratory where the temperature is 20° and the
barometric reading is 740 mm. is 500 cc. What volume would this occupy under standard conditions?

The pressure exerted by the aqueous vapor at 20° (see table in Appendix) is equal to the pressure
exerted by a column of mercury 17.4 mm. in height. Substituting the values of v, t, p, and
a in formula (6), we have

    (6) V{s} = 500(740 - 17.4)/(760(1 + 0.00366 × 20)) = 442.9 cc.

~Adjustment of tubes before reading gas volumes.~ In measuring the volumes of gases collected
in graduated tubes or other receivers, over a liquid as illustrated in Fig. 8, the reading
should be taken after raising or lowering the tube containing the gas until the level of the
liquid inside and outside the tube is the same; for it is only under these conditions that
the upward pressure within the tube is the same as the atmospheric pressure.

EXERCISES

1. What is the meaning of the following words? phlogiston, ozone, phosphorus. (Consult dictionary.)

2. Can combustion take place without the emission of light?

3. Is the evolution of light always produced by combustion?

4. (a) What weight of oxygen can be obtained from 100 g. of water? (b) What volume would this
occupy under standard conditions?

5. (a) What weight of oxygen can be obtained from 500g. of mercuric oxide? (b) What volume
would this occupy under standard conditions?

6. What weight of each of the following compounds is necessary to prepare 50 l. of oxygen?
(a) water; (b) mercuric oxide; (c) potassium chlorate.

7. Reduce the following volumes to 0°, the pressure remaining constant: (a) 150 cc. at 10°;
(b) 840 cc. at 273°.

8. A certain volume of gas is measured when the temperature is 20°. At what temperature will
its volume be doubled?

9. Reduce the following volumes to standard conditions of pressure, the temperature remaining
constant: (a) 200 cc. at 740 mm.; (b) 500 l. at 380 mm.

10. What is the weight of 1 l. of oxygen when the pressure is 750 mm. and the temperature 0°?

11. Reduce the following volumes to standard conditions of temperature and pressure: (a) 340
cc. at 12° and 753 mm; (b) 500 cc. at 15° and 740 mm.

12. What weight of potassium chlorate is necessary to prepare 250 l. of oxygen at 20° and 750 mm.?

13. Assuming the cost of potassium chlorate and mercuric oxide to be respectively $0.50 and
$1.50 per kilogram, calculate the cost of materials necessary for the preparation of 50 l.
of oxygen from each of the above compounds.

14. 100 g. of potassium chlorate and 25 g. of manganese dioxide were heated in the preparation
of oxygen. What products were left in the flask, and how much of each was present?

CHAPTER III

HYDROGEN

~Historical.~ The element hydrogen was first clearly recognized as a distinct substance by
the English investigator Cavendish, who in 1766 obtained it in a pure state, and showed it
to be different from the other inflammable airs or gases which had long been known. Lavoisier
gave it the name hydrogen, signifying water former, since it had been found to be a constituent
of water.

~Occurrence.~ In the free state hydrogen is found in the atmosphere, but only in traces. In
the combined state it is widely distributed, being a constituent of water as well as of all
living organisms, and the products derived from them, such as starch and sugar. About 10% of
the human body is hydrogen. Combined with carbon, it forms the substances which constitute
petroleum and natural gas.

     It is an interesting fact that while hydrogen in the free state
     occurs only in traces on the earth, it occurs in enormous
     quantities in the gaseous matter surrounding the sun and
     certain other stars.

~Preparation from water.~ Hydrogen can be prepared from water by several methods, the most
important of which are the following.

1. By the electric current. As has been indicated in the preparation of oxygen, water is easily
separated into its constituents, hydrogen and oxygen, by passing an electric current through
it under certain conditions.

2. By the action of certain metals. When brought into contact with certain metals under appropriate
conditions, water gives up a portion or the whole of its hydrogen, its place being taken by
the metal. In the case of a few of the metals this change occurs at ordinary temperatures.
Thus, if a bit of sodium is thrown on water, an action is seen to take place at once, sufficient
heat being generated to melt the sodium, which runs about on the surface of the water. The
change which takes place consists in the displacement of one half of the hydrogen of the water
by the sodium, and may be represented as follows:

         | hydrogen |          | sodium   |
sodium + | hydrogen |(water) = | hydrogen |(sodium hydroxide) + hydrogen
         |oxygen  |          |oxygen  |

The sodium hydroxide formed is a white solid which remains dissolved in the undecomposed water,
and may be obtained by evaporating the solution to dryness. The hydrogen is evolved as a gas
and may be collected by suitable apparatus.

Other metals, such as magnesium and iron, decompose water rapidly, but only at higher temperatures.
When steam is passed over hot iron, for example, the iron combines with the oxygen of the steam,
thus displacing the hydrogen. Experiments show that the change may be represented as follows:

       | hydrogen |                                           
iron + | hydrogen |(water) = | iron    |(iron oxide) + | hydrogen |
       |oxygen  |          |oxygen |               |hydrogen|

The iron oxide formed is a reddish-black compound, identical with that obtained by the combustion
of iron in oxygen.

     ~Directions for preparing hydrogen by the action of steam on
     iron.~ The apparatus used in the preparation of hydrogen from
     iron and steam is shown in Fig. 9. A porcelain or iron tube
     B, about 50 cm. in length and 2 cm. or 3 cm. in diameter, is
     partially filled with fine iron wire or tacks and connected as
     shown in the figure. The tube B is heated, slowly at first,
     until the iron is red-hot. Steam is then conducted through the
     tube by boiling the water in the flask A. The hot iron
     combines with the oxygen in the steam, setting free the
     hydrogen, which is collected over water. The gas which first
     passes over is mixed with the air previously contained in the
     flask and tube, and is allowed to escape, since a mixture of
     hydrogen with oxygen or air explodes violently when brought in
     contact with a flame. It is evident that the flask A must be
     disconnected from the tube before the heat is withdrawn.

     That the gas obtained is different from air and oxygen may be
     shown by holding a bottle of it mouth downward and bringing a
     lighted splint into it. The hydrogen is ignited and burns with
     an almost colorless flame.

~Preparation from acids~ (usual laboratory method). While hydrogen can be prepared from water,
either by the action of the electric current or by the action of certain metals, these methods
are not economical and are therefore but little used. In the laboratory hydrogen is generally
prepared from compounds known as acids, all of which contain hydrogen. When acids are brought
in contact with certain metals, the metals dissolve and set free the hydrogen of the acid.
Although this reaction is a quite general one, it has been found most convenient in preparing
hydrogen by this method to use either zinc or iron as the metal and either hydrochloric or
sulphuric acid as the acid. Hydrochloric acid is a compound consisting of 2.77% hydrogen and
97.23% chlorine, while sulphuric acid consists of 2.05% hydrogen, 32.70% sulphur, and 65.25%
oxygen.

The changes which take place in the preparation of hydrogen from zinc and sulphuric acid (diluted
with water) may be represented as follows:

       | hydrogen |(sulphuric   | zinc    |(zinc
zinc + | sulphur  | acid)     = | sulphur | sulphate) + hydrogen
       |oxygen  |             |oxygen |

In other words, the zinc has taken the place of the hydrogen in sulphuric acid. The resulting
compound contains zinc, sulphur, and oxygen, and is known as zinc sulphate. This remains dissolved
in the water present in the acid. It may be obtained in the form of a white solid by evaporating
the liquid left after the metal has passed into solution.

When zinc and hydrochloric acid are used the following changes take place:

       | hydrogen |(hydrochloric   | zinc     |(zinc
zinc + |chlorine| acid)        = |chlorine| chloride) + hydrogen

When iron is used the changes which take place are exactly similar to those just given for zinc.

     ~Directions for preparing hydrogen from acids.~ The preparation
     of hydrogen from acids is carried out in the laboratory as
     follows: The metal is placed in a flask or wide-mouthed bottle
     A (Fig. 10) and the acid is added slowly through the funnel
     tube B. The metal dissolves in the acid, while the hydrogen
     which is liberated escapes through the exit tube C and is
     collected over water. It is evident that the hydrogen which
     passes over first is mixed with the air from the bottle A.
     Hence care must be taken not to bring a flame near the exit
     tube, since, as has been stated previously, such a mixture
     explodes with great violence when brought in contact with a
     flame.

     ~Precautions.~ Both sulphuric acid and zinc, if impure, are
     likely to contain small amounts of arsenic. Such materials
     should not be used in preparing hydrogen, since the arsenic
     present combines with a portion of the hydrogen to form a very
     poisonous gas known as arsine. On the other hand, chemically
     pure sulphuric acid, i.e. sulphuric acid that is entirely free
     from impurities, will not act upon chemically pure zinc. The
     reaction may be started, however, by the addition of a few
     drops of a solution of copper sulphate or platinum
     tetrachloride.

~Physical properties.~ Hydrogen is similar to oxygen in that it is a colorless, tasteless,
odorless gas. It is characterized by its extreme lightness, being the lightest of all known
substances. One liter of the gas weighs only 0.08984 g. On comparing this weight with that
of an equal volume of oxygen, viz., 1.4285 g., the latter is found to be 15.88 times as heavy
as hydrogen. Similarly, air is found to be 14.38 times as heavy as hydrogen. Soap bubbles blown
with hydrogen rapidly rise in the air. On account of its lightness it is possible to pour it
upward from one bottle into another. Thus, if the bottle A (Fig. 11) is filled with hydrogen,
placed mouth downward by the side of bottle B, filled with air, and is then gradually inverted
under B as indicated in the figure, the hydrogen will flow upward into bottle B, displacing
the air. Its presence in bottle B may then be shown by bringing a lighted splint to the mouth
of the bottle, when the hydrogen will be ignited by the flame. It is evident, from this experiment,
that in order to retain the gas in an open bottle the bottle must be placed mouth downward.

Hydrogen is far more difficult to liquefy than any other gas, with the exception of helium,
a rare element recently found to exist in the atmosphere. The English scientist Dewar, however,
in 1898 succeeded not only in obtaining hydrogen in liquid state but also as a solid. Liquid
hydrogen is colorless and has a density of only 0.07. Its boiling point under atmospheric pressure
is -252°. Under diminished pressure the temperature has been reduced to -262°. The solubility
of hydrogen in water is very slight, being still less than that of oxygen.

Pure hydrogen produces no injurious results when inhaled. Of course one could not live in an
atmosphere of the gas, since oxygen is essential to respiration.

~Chemical properties.~ At ordinary temperatures hydrogen is not an active element. A mixture
of hydrogen and chlorine, however, will combine with explosive violence at ordinary temperature
if exposed to the sunlight. The union can be brought about also by heating. The product formed
in either case is hydrochloric acid. Under suitable conditions hydrogen combines with nitrogen
to form ammonia, and with sulphur to form the foul-smelling gas, hydrogen sulphide. The affinity
of hydrogen for oxygen is so great that a mixture of hydrogen and oxygen or hydrogen and air
explodes with great violence when heated to the kindling temperature (about 612°). Nevertheless
under proper conditions hydrogen may be made to burn quietly in either oxygen or air. The resulting
hydrogen flame is almost colorless and is very hot. The combustion of the hydrogen is, of course,
due to its union with oxygen. The product of the combustion is therefore a compound of hydrogen
and oxygen. That this compound is water may be shown easily by experiment.

     ~Directions for burning hydrogen in air.~ The combustion of
     hydrogen in air may be carried out safely as follows: The
     hydrogen is generated in the bottle A (Fig. 12), is dried by
     conducting it through the tube X, filled with some substance
     (generally calcium chloride) which has a great attraction for
     moisture, and escapes through the tube T, the end of which is
     drawn out to a jet. The hydrogen first liberated mixes with the
     air contained in the generator. If a flame is brought near the
     jet before this mixture has all escaped, a violent and very
     dangerous explosion results, since the entire apparatus is
     filled with the explosive mixture. On the other hand, if the
     flame is not applied until all the air has been expelled, the
     hydrogen is ignited and burns quietly, since only the small
     amount of it which escapes from the jet can come in contact
     with the oxygen of the air at any one time. By holding a cold,
     dry bell jar or bottle over the flame, in the manner shown in
     the figure, the steam formed by the combustion of the hydrogen
     is condensed, the water collecting in drops on the sides of the
     jar.

