It is therefore not to be wondered at that juries give but little consideration to the knowledge
or professional standing of expert witnesses. It is, in fact, notorious that the medical autocrat
of the village, who has superintended the entrance of the majority of the jurymen into this
troublous world, is a more important witness than the most renowned special student of the
branch: indeed, the chief value of the real expert often rests on his ability to influence
the local physician.[14] At the late Wharton-Van Ness trial the defence desired to show that
the work of the chemist employed by the prosecution was unreliable, because the analyses made
by him in a previous case had "been condemned by the united voice of the whole scientific world."
The court was not able to see the relevancy of this, and refused to allow the professional
ability or standing of an expert to be called in question. The witness thus adjudged competent
brought no results into court; had kept no laboratory notes; relied solely on a memory so deficient
that although he had been teaching for thirty-five years, he could not tell the shape of a
crystal of tartar emetic, the poison in question; and upon the stand made a statement different
from one which he had furnished officially to the district attorney of Baltimore fourteen months
before.

There are principles of toxicology which ought to have legal force and recognition, and ought
to govern expert testimony in the same way that the principles of evidence govern ordinary
testimony. Without presuming to enumerate these, I will cite two or three for illustration.
Certain substances, the so-called irritant poisons, such as arsenic, tartar emetic and the
like, induce their toxic effects by causing irritation and inflammation of the alimentary canal.
All authorities agree that poisoning by these substances cannot be proved, or even rendered,
very probable, by symptoms alone--that chemical evidence, the discovery of the poison in the
food, dejections, or in case of death the body, is absolutely essential for making out a case.
Irritation and inflammation of the alimentary canal occur so often and so suddenly from natural
causes, which are sometimes apparent, but often hidden, that no especial weight can be attached
to them.

In the case of the so-called neurotic poisons, those which act upon the nervous system, the
symptoms are so closely simulated by natural disease that even when they agree in the most
absolute manner with those usually developed by any such poison they only render poisoning
highly probable, not certain.[15] When in any case the symptoms diverge from the typical array,
poisoning becomes improbable just in proportion to the amount of divergence.

All toxicological authorities also agree that in the case of the metallic poisons, such as
tartar emetic and arsenic, the metal must be brought into court, and that the so-called "color
tests" are not to be relied on. When sulphuretted hydrogen is passed through solutions of these
metallic substances colored precipitates are thrown down, which at one time were thought to
be absolute proof of the existence of the poison in the original solution. But in the celebrated
Donnal case, tried at Falmouth, England, in 1817, Dr. Neale saved the accused by showing that
a decoction of onions, of which the deceased had eaten a short time before death, yielded similar
precipitates to those relied upon by the prosecution as establishing the presence of arsenic
in the stomach. In regard to tartar emetic, Dr. Taylor, in his work on medical jurisprudence,
says: "Antimony in the metallic state is so easily procured from a small quantity of material
that on no account should this be omitted. A reliance on a small quantity of a colored precipitate
would be most unsatisfactory as chemical evidence." In defiance of all the authorities the
prosecution, on the trial of Mrs. Wharton for the murder of General Ketchum, rested its proof
of poison upon these color tests and their sequences. The defence, however, found that the
counterparts of three out of the four so-called characteristic reactions were readily performed
with the substances known to have been in the stomach of General Ketchum at the time of his death.

Several cases of poisoning which have been tried recently in this State and Maryland have attracted
much attention, and I propose now briefly to outline these, and show that the disgraceful scenes
which have taken place were not due to deficiencies of toxicological science, but to the causes
already spoken of.

First in time among these causes célèbres was the Schoeppe case, the facts of which may be
briefly summed up as follows: Dr. Schoeppe, a young German practicing medicine in Carlisle,
Pennsylvania, became engaged to be married to a Miss Stennecke, a maiden lady of sixty years
of age. Miss Stennecke was somewhat of an invalid, not often actually sick, but habitually
distressed by dyspeptic symptoms, etc. On the morning of the 27th of January, 1869, feeling
unwell, she sent for Dr. Schoeppe, who gave her an emetic. In the afternoon, according to the
testimony of her maid, she was weak, but apparently not ill. Between 7 and 8 P.M., however,
she became much worse, and her servant noticed that she was very drowsy, so that if left alone
she would immediately fall asleep whilst sitting in her chair. Shortly after this she was put
to bed, and was not seen again until the next morning about six o'clock, when she was found
comatose, with contracted pupils, irregular respiration and complete muscular relaxation. Late
in the afternoon of the same day she died quietly.

Nothing was said about poisoning until some days afterward, when, a will having been produced
in favor of Dr. Schoeppe, an accusation was made against him. The body of Miss Stennecke was
exhumed, and underwent a post-mortem examination, which, for culpable carelessness and inexcusable
omissions, stands unrivaled. Not a single organ in the whole body was thoroughly examined,
and many of the more important parts were not looked at. Death, preceded by the symptoms exhibited
in the case of Miss Stennecke, occurs not infrequently from insidious disease of the kidneys,
yet these organs were not taken out of the body. The stomach was examined chemically by Professor
Aiken of the University of Maryland, who reported that he had found prussic acid, and who testified
on the trial that Miss Stennecke had received a fatal dose of that poison. When, however, his
evidence was sifted, it was discovered that he had only obtained traces of the poison by the
distillation of the stomach with sulphuric acid. As saliva contains ferrocyanide of potassium,
out of which sulphuric acid generates prussic acid, the latter substance will always be obtained
by the process adopted by Professor Aiken from any stomach which has in it the least particle
of saliva. If, then, the professor did really get prussic acid, without doubt he manufactured it.

Dr. Hermann, however, testified that Miss Stennecke, whom he saw on the morning of her death,
must have died of a compound poison, because her eye looked like that of a hawk killed by himself
some years before with a dose of all the poisons he had in his apothecary's shop. Dr. Conrad
confirmed the assertion of Dr. Hermann, that Miss Stennecke could not have died from a natural
cause, and testified that as the liver was healthy, therefore the kidneys must have been so
too--a conclusion which could only have been evolved from his inner consciousness.

In vain Professor Wormley protested, declaring that it was impossible Miss Stennecke could
have been killed by prussic acid, because that poison always does its work in a few minutes,
if at all, whereas Miss Stennecke lived nearly twenty-four hours after the alleged poisoning.
What did it matter that Dr. Conrad had shown himself by his post-mortem examination ignorant
of the first rudiments of legal medicine, and that Dr. Hermann was a village doctor of the
olden type dragged into court from a mediæval contest with the diseases of simple country-folk,
while Professor Wormley had devoted his life to toxicology and achieved a world-wide reputation?
What did it matter that the written words of all authorities upon such subjects in every land
were in absolute accord with Dr. Wormley? Under the ruling--which has been reaffirmed at Annapolis--the
settled principles of science were overborne by ignorant conjecture, and to the mockery of
justice, to the deep disgrace of our commonwealth, Dr. Schoeppe was condemned to death upon
evidence which, from the same bench, was subsequently stigmatized as being insufficient to
warrant his commitment for trial.

Three years of close confinement under the shadow of death followed. The governor refused a
pardon, and Dr. Schoeppe heard the hammer driving the nails into his scaffold beneath the prison-window.
He was measured for his coffin, but at the last moment was reprieved, and listened to the heavy
thud as the drop fell and a man whose companion he was to have been on the scaffold was launched
into eternity. Finally, moved by the incessant pleadings of Mr. Hepburn, the junior counsel,
by the urgings of the public press, led by the Philadelphia Evening Bulletin, and by the protests
of numerous scientific bodies, the legislature passed a special act granting Dr. Schoeppe a
new trial. On this occasion the judge allowed the weakness of the expert testimony for the
prosecution to be demonstrated, and chiefly as a result of this demonstration--of what has
been called the "coarse brutality" of showing Dr. Conrad's ignorance--Dr. Schoeppe was acquitted.

If the principles contended for in this article had been acknowledged, the processes and results
in the case of Dr. Schoeppe would have been far different. In the first place, the post mortem
would have been entrusted to some one qualified to make it--an expert in legal medicine--and
very probably a natural cause for the death of Miss Stennecke would have been found. Such post
mortem not having been made, the case, after Professor Aiken's analysis, would have been dropped,
because it was impossible that prussic acid could have caused the death. Had, however, capable
experts failed to detect a natural cause of death, a very serious case might have been made
out against Dr. Schoeppe, even though the analyst had not found morphia in the stomach. The
prosecution might have affirmed that the poison had been absorbed, and therefore was not in
the stomach, and, for the support of the charge, relied upon the resemblance of the symptoms
to those produced by morphia, and upon the absence of natural cause of death.

A case which has acquired even more celebrity than the last is that of Mrs. Wharton of Baltimore.
The chief facts, as developed at the first trial at Annapolis, are as follows: General Ketchum,
a man of over middle age and usually in good health, was very much engaged in attending to
matters of business at Washington throughout the entire day of the 24th of June, 1871. The
weather was very hot, yet he walked about hurriedly and steadily, getting no dinner, and returning
in the evening to Mrs. Wharton's at Baltimore about 9 P.M., where he ate a very hearty meal,
consisting partly of raspberries. During the night he was heard to go down stairs several times.
The next day he complained of feeling unwell, but took at bed-time a glass of lemonade with
brandy, and during the night had some slight vomiting and purging. In the morning he complained
of sick stomach and giddiness, and at Mrs. Wharton's earnest request[16] Dr. Williams was finally
sent for, and on arriving at 4 P.M. found him sitting up and vomiting, and prescribed as for
a slight attack of cholera morbus. The next morning General Ketchum thought himself so much
better that he discharged his physician. He was, however, very drowsy during the day, and the
evidence at the trial rendered it probable that he took laudanum on this day upon his own responsibility.
In the evening he was found sleeping heavily upon the lounge, and again at Mrs. Wharton's request
Dr. Williams was sent for, but did not think it worth while to come. The next morning Mrs.
Wharton again sent for Dr. Williams, as General Ketchum was found still lying upon the lounge
in a stupor. He remained in this state until his death, which took place in a convulsion at
3 P.M. He had had during the intervening period repeated convulsions, and about one o'clock
had become very uneasy, uttering incoherent cries, but did not recover true consciousness.
At the examination of the body, made the following morning, the spinal cord was not looked
at: the inner membranes of the brain were found congested, and the brain-substance presented
throughout "those dark points of blood which indicate passive congestion." No other lesions
were found, and the stomach was handed for analysis to Professor Aiken, who in due time reported
that he had "satisfied himself" of the existence of at least twenty grains of tartar emetic in it.

It is highly probable that this official announcement had much influence upon the minds of
Drs. Williams and Chew, with their colleagues, and it is very certain that by it and their
representations was created the public belief in Baltimore that General Ketchum had been poisoned.
The false analysis remained for months uncontradicted, and backed up as it was by the whole
intellectual and moral force of the University of Maryland, it could scarcely happen otherwise
than that public opinion should become so set and hardened that no testimony at the trial could
affect it, especially as local pride and local prejudice came to its support when experts from
other cities questioned the work of the Baltimore physicians.

Mrs. Wharton's servants were first accused, but after a few days she was arrested, and with
her daughter--who has clung throughout to her faith in her mother's purity and goodness--was
thrust into a common felon's cell, with only the grated bars between her and the lowest of
men in every stage of drunkenness and delirium. After nearly two weeks her lawyers obtained
her removal to one of the better rooms of the jail, but it was months before anything was said
in her favor.

The trial opened on December 4, 1871, at Annapolis, and lasted nearly two months. The circumstantial
evidence certainly went no farther than to render it probable that if General Ketchum died
of poison it was administered by Mrs. Wharton. The State attempted to prove as a motive that
Mrs. Wharton owed the deceased money. They were signally unsuccessful in this, however; so
that a very intelligent member of the jury said to the writer since the trial, "Whether Mrs.
Wharton did or did not poison General Ketchum, certainly the State completely failed to prove
a motive." The defence admitted that Mrs. Wharton had bought tartar emetic near the time of
the alleged poisoning, but proved that she was in the habit of using it externally as a counter-irritant,
and that it was purchased in the most open manner, through a third party, not with the secresy
that marks the steps of the poisoner.

Thus the whole case centred in a rather remarkable degree upon the expert testimony, and the
very point of it all was the chemical analysis. This is not the place to follow out in detail
the scientific testimony, but only to point out some peculiarities of it. Almost all the medical
witnesses for the prosecution were colleagues of Professor Aiken, none of them men of eminence
in toxicological science--surgeons, physiologists, obstetricians, the whole faculty, trying
apparently to hide the nakedness of their colleague. Never was strong language more justifiable
than that of Mr. Hagner, when he said, "It seemed that the University of Maryland was on trial,
and that blood was demanded to support it."

After all, the testimony of most of these gentlemen amounted only to this: that they did not
believe the death of General Ketchum could have occurred from natural causes. On the other
hand, the numerous medical witnesses for the defence, unconnected by any bond of common interest,
testified that natural causes, were sufficient to account for the death; many of them asserting
that the case in all its symptoms and post-mortem appearances tallied precisely with the so-called
fulminating form of cerebro-spinal meningitis, which was prevalent in Baltimore at the time
of General Ketchum's death.[17]

The medical witnesses for the defence further called attention to the fact that the symptoms
of General Ketchum's illness were wholly different from those produced by tartar emetic, and
some denied that the latter could have caused the sickness. The chemical evidence for the prosecution
was triumphantly refuted. It was shown that antimony did not conform in its reactions with
at least one of the tests, which Professor Aiken said his precipitates did; that almost all
the other reactions could be closely simulated with ordinary organic bodies; that the processes
used were those universally condemned by authorities; and that carelessness was everywhere
so manifest in their conduction as to entirely vitiate any results. It was also proved that
Professor Aiken had simply estimated the amount of tartar emetic in General Ketchum's stomach
by the ocular comparison of the bulk of precipitates, neither of which could have been pure,
and in neither of which was the existence of antimony really proved. To weigh a precipitate
was a labor not to be thought of when nothing more important than the life of a woman was involved:
guessing was all that such a trifling issue demanded!

The most extraordinary event of this most extraordinary trial occurred when the chemists for
the defence had completely broken down the testimony of Professor Aiken. With the knowledge,
it is said, of at least one of the judges, without the presence of a representative of the
defence, or even of a legal officer, the body of General Ketchum was secretly exhumed by the
doctors who had shown themselves so eager for the execution of Mrs. Wharton. The viscera, which
they removed, were put into the hands not of a chemist of national reputation, but of an individual
who had been advanced from the position of hospital steward at Washington to that of professor
of chemistry in a small local institute at Baltimore. This professor, when on the witness-stand,
was singularly confused as to his weights and measures, and finally shared the ignominy of
his predecessor. The defence had several chemists at Annapolis of world-wide reputation and
unspotted integrity. If the prosecution really believed that General Ketchum had been poisoned,
if they really did expect tartar emetic to be found, why did they not allow the presence of
these gentlemen at the analysis, and thereby ensure the condemnation of Mrs. Wharton? The conviction
is irresistible that they were afraid of the truth--that they were simply determined to procure
the desired verdict at all hazards and by any means. Yet this was the procedure for the completion
of which the court suspended the trial for two days, because, as Chief-Justice Miller stated
from the bench, "it thought the ends of justice demanded it"! Is any further evidence needed
of the strange ideas, of the perversion of truth and justice, which have grown out of the American
method of using expert testimony?

Before leaving this trial I desire to quote from advanced sheets of the edition of Dr. Taylor's
great work on medical jurisprudence, now passing through the press. Reviewing the trial in
London with that freedom from bias which the isolation of distance produces, he says: "The
trial lasted fifty-two days, and an astonishing amount of evidence was brought forward by the
defence and prosecution, apparently owing to the high social position of the parties, for there
is nothing, medically speaking, which might not have been settled in forty-eight hours. The
general died after a short illness, but the symptoms, taken as a whole, bore no resemblance
to those observed in poisoning with antimony; and but for the alleged discovery after death
of tartar emetic in the stomach, no suspicion of poisoning would probably have arisen.... The
chemical evidence," he adds, "does not conflict with the pathological evidence, for it failed
to show with clearness and distinctness the presence and proportion of poison said to have
been found. The evidence that antimony was really there was not satisfactory, and that twenty
grains were in the stomach wholly unproven."[18]

What would have been the course of this trial if expert testimony were established upon proper
principles? Professor Aiken having shown his complete incompetency in the Schoeppe case, the
analysis would have been entrusted to some skillful chemist, who by failing to discover poison
would have established the innocence of Mrs. Wharton, or by bringing positive results into
court have ensured conviction; or, Dr. Aiken having made the analysis, and having broken all
the laws of toxicological evidence, his testimony would have been ruled out, and the case dismissed
because the bungling of the State's witness had destroyed the evidences of guilt or of innocence.

In January, 1873, Mrs. Wharton was tried at Annapolis for attempting to poison Eugene Van Ness.
The facts of the case are briefly as follows: Mr. Van Ness, whose relations with the Wharton
family had been extremely intimate for many years, was a bank-clerk, but during the spring
and early summer of 1871, besides attending to his regular duties, was employed in settling
a large estate. He habitually rose early, often at 5 A.M., and generally worked until eleven
o'clock at night. During this period he suffered from severe nervous headaches, and probably
from other symptoms of an overworked nervous system, but on this point the testimony disagreed.
His stomach is at all times so sensitive that brandy nauseates him. On the 19th of June, after
taking some claret on an empty stomach at Mrs. Wharton's, he felt very badly, suffering from
lightness of the head or giddiness and general wretchedness, with stiffness and numbness in
the back of his neck. On the 20th he stopped at Mrs. Wharton's about 4 P.M., having eaten nothing
for seven or eight hours, and took raspberries with cream, and drank claret. This claret, he
stated, "had a taste like peach leaves."[19] Directly after this he had an attack similar to,
but much more violent than, that of the day before. Some little time after this, whilst in
a condition of profound relaxation, he took some brandy, and at once emptied his stomach by
a single spasmodic effort of vomiting, with immediate relief. The weather was extremely hot
during the whole time in which the various attacks here narrated took place.

On the 24th of June, Mr. Van Ness rose at 5 A.M., but was forced to return to bed by a severe
headache. At 9 A.M., after dressing, he said to his wife that he would not eat at home, but
would stop at Mrs. Wharton's on his way to the office, to get a cup of her "nice black tea."
A piece of toast was all he ate before his return to Mrs. Wharton's from the banking-house
at 4 P.M. Mrs. Wharton then offered him some lager beer, and, partly at his own suggestion,
put into it something out of a bottle labeled "Gentian Bitters." He found the liquid so bitter
that he took but a part of it.[20]

Shortly afterward Mr. Van Ness became partially blind, and was "seized with the same feeling
of giddiness" as on the day before. After this he had convulsions, with unconsciousness, for
which large doses of chloroform and chloral were given. During the attack the patient repeatedly
said it was of the same character as the preceding ones, and referred the trouble to the pit
of the stomach and to indigestion.

The next morning (Sunday), about an hour after waking, he took some tea and toast, and in ten
minutes was seized with nausea, followed by heartburn and retching, which lasted all day. On
Monday morning some beef tea--two-thirds of a cupful--was given him, and in less than an hour
as much more, which induced nausea with heartburn. In the evening he was roused, and more beef
tea offered him, which he refused because the last dose had made him sick, and he was afraid
this would have the same effect. He was, however, prevailed on to take it. After this he fell
asleep, but in a short time woke up with violent nausea, burning at the pit of the stomach,
and finally vomiting. Not until this occurred did he discover anything wrong with the beef
tea: as he vomited it he found it had an acrid metallic taste.[21]

The circumstantial evidence in the case did not amount to any more than, or indeed as much
as, in the previous trial. It was distinctly admitted that no motive could be found, Mr. Van
Ness testifying that the relations between himself and Mrs. Wharton were most friendly; that
he held four thousand dollars of her government bonds, for which she had not even a receipt;
that she depended upon him for the completion of her pecuniary arrangements for a contemplated
trip to Europe; or, in other words, that she had nothing to gain and much to lose by his death,
and that there was no conceivable emotional motive, such as hate, revenge or envy.[22]

No attempt was made to prove that Mrs. Wharton had at any time in her possession strychnia,
the poison alleged to have been used by her. As on the previous trial, the case centred upon
the expert testimony, but there was no direct chemical evidence, neither the food, the matters
vomited nor the bodily secretions having been examined. Some sediment found in a tumbler of
punch was asserted by Dr. Aiken to consist largely of tartar emetic. This tumbler was not connected
with Mrs. Wharton, except by being found at her house in a position where, in the language
of one of the State's witnesses, "hundreds of persons" had access to it. It was carried about
in the pocket of a lady inimical to Mrs. Wharton, and into at least one drug-store, before
it reached Professor Aiken, whose analysis was as faulty as before. Any tartar emetic present
in the sediment might have been procured in a pure form by the simple process of dialysis.
The only apparatus necessary for this would have been a glass vessel divided into two compartments
by a piece of hog's bladder stretched across it. These chambers having been partially filled
with distilled water, and the sediment of the tumbler put into one of them, the tartar emetic
would have left the other ingredients and passed into the second compartment. By taking the
water out of this and evaporating it, the poison would have been obtained in a pure crystalline
state, and might have been brought into court. But Dr. Aiken thought it sufficient for him
to "satisfy himself:" as he stated on the witness-stand, he did not consider it his business
whether other people were or were not satisfied. Consequently, the court was only favored with
a memorized report of the color tests used by him, exactly as in the previous trial. One of
the reactions which he said he obtained antimony does not conform to.

Drs. Williams and Chew unhesitatingly stated on the witness-stand that they recognized poisoning
as early as the Saturday of Mr. Van Ness's illness.[23] Yet they gave no antidote. They employed
on Monday and Tuesday a treatment which, although well adapted to a case of natural disease
presenting such symptoms, would in a case of poisoning have materially increased the risk to
life. They did not save the matters vomited: they did not save the secretions, which would
certainly have contained antimony if Mr. Van Ness had been poisoned as alleged. According to
their testimony, Mr. Van Ness received six doses of poison on as many different days, four
of the doses administered under their eyes; yet they gave no warning to the unfortunate victim
or to his friends. If the theory they upheld be correct, that Mrs. Wharton poisoned both General
Ketchum and Mr. Van Ness, the extraordinary spectacle was presented of one man lying dead in
the house from the effect of poison, of another receiving day after day the fatal dose with
the knowledge of the attending physician, yet no antidote given, no warning word put forth,
no saving of the evidences of guilt! It would seem as though silence at a trial would best
become gentlemen with such a record, yet they were the only experts who asserted that strychnia
was the sole possible cause for the attack of the 24th of June, and tartar emetic of the subsequent
attacks.

The experts for the defence asserted that the convulsion of Saturday could not have been caused
by strychnia or other known poison; that although the symptoms of the later attacks resembled
those of tartar emetic poisoning, they were not identical with those usually produced by that
drug; and that it was exceedingly improbable that these attacks were due to the poison named,
because obvious natural causes for them existed.[24]

The impropriety and total insufficiency of our methods of criminal prosecutions were very strongly
shown by this trial. One member of the jury could barely write his name, and not more than
one or two of them were in the lowest sense of the term educated; no record of the testimony
was kept by the court, and none, except in the very beginning, by the jury, who must therefore
have been guided chiefly by impressions, lawyers' speeches or newspaper records; the feeling
amongst the populace, with whom the jurymen freely mingled, was so bitter that one of the experts
was barred out of his lodgings at ten o'clock at night, openly because he was for the defence
of Mrs. Wharton; the newspaper which circulated most largely in the place misrepresented the
testimony, and devoted its columns to scurrilous attacks upon the integrity and professional
ability of the medical witnesses for the defence. Yet under these influences, mazed and confused
by the subtleties and partial statements of the lawyers, these twelve honest but ignorant men
were called upon to decide between physicians offering precisely opposite opinions. It is well
when this so-called administration of justice ends as a monstrous farce and not as a tragedy.

The conduct of the Wharton-Van Ness trial would have been far different if the expert testimony
had been what it ought to have been. If the excretions of Mr. Van Ness had been put in the
hands of a properly-qualified chemist, by finding the metal antimony or by proving its absence
he would at once have settled the case. As it is, there is no proper evidence of the guilt
of Mrs. Wharton. The probabilities are in favor of her innocence, because the symptoms were
certainly widely divergent from those induced by poison, if not, as I believe, absolutely incompatible
with poisoning. The medical gentlemen who attended Mr. Van Ness, by destroying all the evidence,
have made a just conviction and an absolute proving of innocence equally impossible.

If it were necessary, further illustrations of the deficiencies of our criminal processes could
be detailed. Some little time since, upon the chemical evidence of Professor Aiken, a poor
colored woman was hung in Anne Arundel county, Maryland. She died protesting her innocence,
and the general impression appears to be now that she did not commit the crime. A prominent
member of the Maryland Bar told me recently of a case tried in that State, in which the accused,
as he stated, certainly did kill the deceased with arsenic, yet in which, by showing the insufficiency
of Professor Aiken's analysis of the stomach, he obtained the acquittal of the prisoner.

It cannot be stated too strongly that the trouble is not in the science of toxicology, nor
in the real students of it. So far as mineral poisons are concerned, any qualified expert will
determine the question of poisoning with the unwavering step of a mathematical demonstration.

The legal recognition of the true character and position of the expert, and of certain principles
of medical jurisprudence, would probably improve the present status, but it is doubtful whether
some other method of reform may not be more available. Professor Henry Hartshorne, at the last
meeting of the American Medical Association, suggested that the court should appoint in poisoning
cases a commission to collect the scientific testimony and make report on the same. This seems
at first sight practicable, but suppose the court had appointed, as is not at all improbable
they would have done, Professors Aiken and Chew and Dr. Williams as the commission in Mrs.
Wharton's case? The result would certainly have been an unjust conviction.

In Spain and some other countries of Europe the custom is to refer the case to the local medical
society. If the opinion afterward given is unanimous, the court is bound by it; if any member
object to the opinion, the case is referred to the medical society of the province; if the
disagreement continue, the matter is brought before the chief society of the capital. Evidently,
this plan would not work well here. In Prussia it was formerly, and may still be, the custom
for an expert holding a fixed appointment under the government to investigate the case, and
to send his report to the Royal Medical College of Prussia. A standing committee of this body,
after investigating the matter, sent the original report, with their comments, to the ministry,
by whom it was referred to a permanent commission of experts. The report of the latter body,
with all the other papers, was finally sent to the criminal court. This method seems complicated,
but it resulted in giving to Prussia the best corps of experts the world has ever seen, as
well as the most eminent individual medical jurists.

It is not, however, the object of the present paper to urge any especial method of reform,
but to call attention to the need of it, and to show that the present evils do not grow out
of the imperfections of medical jurisprudence, but out of the methods of our criminal procedures.
Certainly, the matter needs investigation, and it is hardly possible but that some practicable
means of relief could be devised by the deliberations of a mixed commission of lawyers and
medical jurists of eminence.

H.C. WOOD, JR., M.D.

[Footnote 13: The utter absurdity of Dr. Williams's assertion is shown by the fact that on
the first and second trials of Mrs. Wharton he affirmed that the violent convulsions, the extreme
muscular rigidity, the retentive stomach, seen in the last day of General Ketchum's life were
due to tartar emetic, and that to tartar emetic were due the excessive vomiting, the motionless
prostration and muscular relaxation of Mr. Van Ness on the Sunday and Monday of his illness.
Tartar emetic the sole possible cause of precisely opposite symptoms!]

[Footnote 14: The parsimony of many legal authorities is an indication of their want of appreciation
of the differences in men. Not rarely medical experts are forced to sue a borough or county
for compensation, even when the fee has been agreed on beforehand. In Huntingdon county, Pennsylvania,
some time ago a woman was arrested on the charge of poisoning her mother-in-law, and the stomach
of the deceased was sent to Professor Reese of this city for analysis. Warned by previous experience,
he refused to make the analysis without a written agreement as to the fees. Nearly three months
were spent by the authorities in vainly trying to get him to do it without such arrangement,
and finally the stomach was returned unopened. During the whole of this time the poor woman,
very probably innocent, was lying in prison with the dreadful charge hanging over her.]

[Footnote 15: A very forcible illustration occurs to me from my own experience. I was once
summoned to see a woman in the Philadelphia Hospital to whom an assistant nurse of bad character
had been seen to administer laudanum. At the time of my arrival she was apparently suffering
from the advanced stages of opium poisoning. I spent about five hours in trying to restore
her. The nurse protested that she had given only the medicinal dose ordered by the doctor,
but was not believed. After death we found thrombosis of the brain--a rare affection, leaving
such minute traces behind it that a careless examination will always fail to detect them. This
was one of the affections which, as I had stated on the witness-stand some months before the
occurrence just narrated, might have caused the death of Miss Stennecke with symptoms resembling
those of opium poisoning.]

[Footnote 16: According to the testimony in both the cases of alleged poisoning by Mrs. Wharton,
professional advice was called in at her request.]

[Footnote 17: I think the general opinion of the profession has endorsed the position of the
defence. It is very probable that General Ketchum did die of the disease named, but there are
other affections of which he I may have died; and certainly there were no sufficient grounds
for asserting that the facts of his case were inconsistent with natural disease. The truth
is, disease is often so hidden, its manifestations so obscure, its stamp upon the tissues so
faint, that rarely is a physician justified in asserting from the symptoms and a partial negative
post mortem, such as was performed on General Ketchum, that any given death could not have
been due to a natural cause. Numerous cases of death from natural causes have occurred in which
science has been apparently baffled. I have myself seen at least one sudden death in which
a careful post mortem failed entirely to detect the cause.]

[Footnote 18: Since writing the present paper I have been shown a private letter of Judge Pierce,
written last April in regard to the first trial of Mrs. Wharton. After considerable solicitation
the judge has allowed the publication of an extract from it, which I insert here as the words
of one of our most eminent criminal jurists, He says: "I had made up my mind, when Dr. Williams's
first testimony was concluded, that the case would fail. When Professor Aiken's examination
was concluded it was beyond recovery. All efforts to secure a conviction after that were a
waste of time and money. The case could have been safely for the defendant given to the jury
on the testimony of the prosecution alone. If I had been sitting as a judge in the case, I
would have instructed the jury at the close of the case for the State, if there had been no
other testimony, that the evidence would not warrant a conviction. And I would have set aside
the verdict if the jury had found the defendant guilty. I do not know the lady who was so wantonly
charged with this crime, and I do not know of any case in the annals of criminal jurisprudence
which, from the evidence submitted in the case, had so baseless a foundation for so grave a
charge."]

[Footnote 19: It is proper to state that Miss Wharton, in his presence, partook of the same
claret, but perceived nothing peculiar either in its taste, as she told him at the time, or
in its effects upon her afterward. According to Miss Wharton's testimony, Mrs. Wharton actually
drank the claret left in the glass of Mr. Van Ness directly after he left the room.]

[Footnote 20: This bottle was found in the house after the arrest of Mrs. Wharton, with compound
tincture of gentian in it.

I have outlined the circumstances as Mr. Van Ness told them. A peculiarity of this trial was
the direct contradiction of witnesses. Mr. Van Ness for a long time refused to entertain the
idea that Mrs. Wharton had poisoned him. Whilst he was being persuaded into this belief he
sent for Mrs. Neilson, a prominent lady of Baltimore, with whom both he and Mrs. Wharton were
very intimate, and dismissing his wife from the room had a private conversation with her. During
this, according to Mrs. Neilson's testimony, he stated that Mrs. Wharton could not have poisoned
him on the Saturday, because they had exchanged glasses when he complained of the bitterness
of the one into which she had put the gentian. On the stand Mr. Van Ness flatly denied ever
having said anything of the sort. In a point of such vital importance it is impossible to account
for the contradiction by "failure of memory."

Miss Neilson also contradicted Mr. Van Ness, and the act was in this case especially impressive
from the manner in which it was done. Miss Neilson being on the stand, a dispute arose as to
whether Mr. Van Ness had or had not previously made a sufficient denial for contradiction.
To settle this, Miss Neilson left the stand: Mr. Van Ness went up and took the oath. Then the
question was put, "Did you say so and so?" He answered, "I certainly did not." Miss Neilson
returning to the stand immediately after this, the question was put to her. The court-room
was in the deepest silence while in a low but audible voice she replied, "He did say it." The
testimony of these ladies was in no degree shaken by a severe cross-examination.]

[Footnote 21: An essential symptom of tartar emetic poisoning is purging as well as vomiting.
Dr. Williams of course knows this. It is a singular circumstance that whilst Mr. Van Ness stated
that his bowels were scarcely affected at all, Dr. Williams testified that there was frequent
purging. No remedies calculated to arrest purging were employed by Dr. Williams, however, during
the illness of Mr. Van Ness.]

[Footnote 22: Mrs. Wharton's trip to Europe had been arranged and her passage engaged months
before the occurrence of these events. If the theory of the State of Maryland, that she poisoned
General Ketchum, be true, by poisoning Mr. Van Ness she placed herself in the position of the
criminal who voluntarily and without motive destroys his means of escape. Either she was insane,
or the asserted crimes were not committed.]

[Footnote 23: It is well worthy of mention in this connection that Mr. I.G. Moale of Baltimore
testified that he went for Dr. Chew on Sunday morning, on account of the sick stomach of Mr.
Van Ness, and that Dr. Chew told him that the vomiting was the almost necessary result of the
remedies used the day before--a truth which, previous to Mr. Moale's appearance in Annapolis,
the experts for the defence had insisted upon. H. Clay Dallam also testified that Dr. Williams
had told him on Saturday that the indisposition of Mr. Van Ness the day before had been a nervous
attack from overwork. This opinion also was in absolute agreement with the opinion expressed
by the experts for the defence.]

[Footnote 24: The detailed reasons for this opinion will be given in a medical journal at the
proper time. It is allowable here to state, however, that not one of the symptoms laid down
by authorities as characteristic of strychnia poisoning was present in the attack of the 24th
of June, and that not one of the symptoms which characterizes the natural convulsion was absent.
Further, there is a connection between the various portions of Mr. Van Ness's illness which
is inconsistent with the theory advanced by the prosecution. Mr. Van Ness stated very positively
that the attacks of the 19th, 20th and 24th of June commenced in the same way, with the same
symptoms. Yet, according to the theory alluded to, they were the result of poisons which act
in precisely opposite methods. On the other hand, the very simple natural explanation of the
illness of Mr. Van Ness which was offered by the defence at the trial accounts for the unity
and the diversity of the attacks, the basis of which, according to it, was over-susceptibility
of the nervous system and of the stomach, produced by overwork and heat.]

THE SWEET WATERS.

The denizens of great cities, whose weary eyes are doomed to rest eternally on long rows of
buildings, unrelieved by anything softer or fresher than brownstone or marble fronts, thirst
for an occasional glimpse of Nature, so healing to jaded mind and wearied body. So universal
is this sentiment that provision for gratifying it is not confined to the cities which our
modern civilization has reared, nor do the capitals of Christendom alone boast of their parks
and similar places of resort. In effete and uncivilized Turkey the "institution" has long been
established, and still flourishes; and the "Sweet Waters of Constantinople" draw quite as well,
as regards both male and female visitors, as either Fairmount, Central or Hyde Park, or even
the Bois de Boulogne, to which far-famed resort of all that is wise, wicked or witty in Paris
these Turkish parks most nearly assimilate.

One of the two "Valleys of the Sweet Waters" is on the European, the other on the Asiatic,
side of the Bosphorus. The former is more frequented by the Greek and other Christian populations,
while the latter is chiefly resorted to by the higher classes among the Turks and the veiled
ladies of their hareems, and is often visited by the sultan himself.

To the Asiatic Sweet Waters you must go by boat, or rather by caique, a peculiar little frail
cockle-shell of a conveyance, rowed by the most truculent-looking and unmitigated ruffians,
Turkish or Grecian, to be found on any waters or in any land, Christian or heathen. Picturesque
in costume and exceedingly ragged and dirty, with the most cut-throat expression of face possible
to conceive of, when you entrust your person and purse to their tender mercies you involuntarily
remember with satisfaction that you insured your life for a good round sum before leaving your
native country, and that this is one of the risks it covers.

To the European Sweet Waters you may go by carriage, but if wise will go there also by caique;
for even the corduroy roads of our Southern country, so famous for their dislocating qualities,
can be paralleled by the so-called road over which once (and once only), for our sins, we suffered
ourselves to be shaken, not driven. It is the fashion at Constantinople to visit the Asiatic
Sweet Waters only on Friday (the Mussulman Sabbath), and the European Sweet Waters on Sunday;
and on those days all that may be seen of Turkish ladies is on full exhibition.

If you select the Asiatic Sweet Waters for your visit, you go down to the wharf at Tophane,
where the rival boatmen (caiquejees) raise as loud a din and make as fierce a fight for your
person and piastres as you ever encountered on your arrival at New York in a European steamer
from rival hack-drivers or hotel "touters." Pulled, pushed and shoved about in all directions
as fiercely as ever was the body of Patroclus in the Iliad, when Greek and Trojan contended
for possession of it, you are at last hustled into a caique, and deposited in the bottom on
soft cushions, your back supported by the end of the boat, your face to the two boatmen. The
caique is gayly ornamented and pretty to look at, but it is the crankiest and tickliest of
all nautical inventions--more resembling a Canadian birch-bark canoe than any other craft you
are acquainted with. Admiring the view, you partially rise up and lean your elbow on the side
of the boat. A warning cry from your boatmen and a sudden dip of your frail bark, which almost
upsets you head-foremost to feed the fishes of the Bosphorus, admonish you to sit quietly,
and you can scarcely venture to stir again during the long row. The caique is long and very
narrow, and sharp at both ends--pointed, in fact. It is boarded over at these ends to prevent
shipping seas. These planks are prettily varnished, with gilded rails, which give the boat
a gay look.

The men row vigorously, and the frail skiff skims along the water at a rate of speed equal
to an express-train. But the rushing of the rippling waters past the boat is the chief indication
of the rapidity of our progress, so smoothly do we glide along. One peculiarity of the caique
is that there are no rowlocks for the oars, which are held by a loop of leather fastened on
the boat.

All the senses are soothed and steeped in Elysium during this rapid transit. The eye lazily
runs over the squat-looking red houses with flat roofs which line the shore, to rest on the
dark cypress trees which fill the intervening spaces, with the gilded balconies of some pleasure-palace
of sultan or high Turk catching the sight occasionally. Caiques similar to your own are darting
about in all directions, following, passing or meeting you, until at length you reach your
destination, indicated by the crowd of caiques tied up there, like cabs on a grand-opera night
waiting for their customers. Those of high Turkish functionaries or foreign ambassadors are
very different from yours--as different as a coach-and-four from a common cab. Many of these
have twelve rowers, all in fancy uniforms--red fezzes and jackets embroidered with gold--while
the larger caiques are profusely and expensively ornamented.

Stepping ashore, you see a long line of carriages drawn up in several rows, and of every conceivable
variety--from the Turkish araba to the most coquettish-looking Parisian coupé--gilded and adorned
in a style to make a French lorette stare with amazement at a lavishness of expenditure exceeding
her own.

The fair ones to whom these carriages belong may be seen in the distance squatting down on
rugs spread out beneath the trees, and sipping coffee or sherbert while listening to musicians
or story-tellers. You stroll toward them as near as their attendant guardians--grim-looking
black eunuchs armed to the teeth, and quite ready to use those arms with very little provocation
on the persons of any "dogs of infidels" who may interfere or seem to interfere with their
fair charges--will permit. You see bundles of the gayest colored silks worn by women whose
veils are thin as gossamer, and generally permit a very fair view of their charms, not only
of face, but of bust as well. The bold black eyes of the caged birds flash out unshrinkingly
on the strangers, who inspire curiosity, and not always aversion, if the language of those
eyes be interpreted according to the Western code. In fact, the women seem to take a malicious
pleasure in annoying their guards by encouraging such advances as can be made by the mute language
of looks and signs.

Every Friday in the year the same pantomime is performed. The women go to the Sweet Waters
to sit and stare at men whom they do not and never will know or speak to, and the men go to
walk or waddle about and stare back at the women in the same way. This monotonous and melancholy
pastime is varied by much stuffing of sweetmeats and cakes and sipping of colored beverages
by the fair ones, and endless smoking by the men. There are strolling jugglers and musicians
plying their trades for the amusement and paras of the public, and they are liberally patronized
in the dreary dearth of amusement on these pleasure-grounds.

To the foreigner, after the sight has been seen a few times and divested of its novelty, the
whole thing becomes tedious in the extreme; but we must remember that in his tastes the Turk
is the very opposite of the Western man, and what would be death to us is fun to him. His idea
of true enjoyment is that it should be passive, not active: his highest happiness is in "keff,"
a perfect repose of mind and body--an exaggeration of the Italian dolce far niente. This keff
he enjoys at these weekly meetings, and the women in their way enjoy it too as the only public
exposition of themselves they are permitted to make, and as a break in the monotony of their
dreary and secluded lives.

But there is another mode of killing time there, evidently borrowed, as are the carriages,
from Europe. The conveyances at intervals are driven round a circular road in two long files,
going and coming, to permit people to stare at each other, just as in London, Paris or New
York, minus the salutations to friends or conversation. As the poet says of the stars--

                     In silence all
  Move round this dark terrestrial ball,

though the women, while sitting under the trees, chatter like magpies to one another. The etiquette
is to recline languidly back in the carriage and speak through the eyes alone to the mounted
cavaliers, who prance as near the carriages containing veiled inmates as the sable guards will
permit, to the infinite amusement of Fatima and Zuleika, and boundless wrath and disgust of
Hassan or Mustapha, "with his long sword, saddle, bridle, etc."

Two of these carriages are so peculiar to the place and people as to merit description. One
of these, the "araba," is an heirloom from their old Tartar ancestry, and is only an exaggerated
ox-cart with seats, and a scaffolding of poles around it. Over these poles there hangs a canopy
of red to keep off the sun, and the seats are well-stuffed cushions, making a kind of bed of
the bottom of the wagon. Into this curious conveyance are piled promiscuously the mother, children
and slaves of the establishment--packed in as tightly as possible; and the contrast of costumes,
faces, colors and ages between its occupants may be imagined, but cannot be described. For
a genuine old-fashioned family carriage commend us to the araba.

This curious conveyance is drawn not by horses, but by white oxen, whose broad fronts are pleasingly
painted between the eyes bright red with henna, the dye with which the Turkish ladies tinge
their own fair hands and the soles of their feet. The oxen bear high wooden yokes covered with
fringes and tassels, and their tails are often looped up with bright cords. Their pace, bearing
their heavy burden of wood and flesh, is slow and stately, and the jolting of the springless
wagon over the rough roads seemingly very severe. But the inmates seem used to their discomforts,
and sit placidly and contentedly on their uneasy seats, apparently proud of their turn-out
and the effect they are producing. These cumbrous vehicles are much affected by the elder ladies
of the sultan's court, who constitute the Faubourg-Saint-Germain portion of society. True old-school
Turks these, who look down with scorn on the new fashions, both in costume and carriage, stolen
or adopted from the despised Franks.

Chief and most conspicuous of these latter is the small imitation brougham or coupé, termed
a "teleki," and generally built at Paris regardless of cost, and resembling a Christian carriage
about as nearly as the Turk resembles a European when he puts on a similar dress. The teleki
is pumpkin-shaped, almost round, painted and gilded in the gayest colors, with large bunches
of the brightest flowers painted on panels and on the glasses which shut it in all round. It
is the most dazzling carriage the imagination of carriage-makers ever devised, and well adapted
to the taste of the grown-up children it is intended for, who, clad in raiments of rose-color,
pink, bright blue or scarlet, seem a fit lining for the gorgeous exterior. Unlike the French
carriage, the teleki has no springs; so the exercise these fair ladies get is about equal to
that of a ride on a hard-trotting horse.

Another peculiarity consists in the driver's dismounting from his box and walking gravely alongside
the carriage, holding in his hands the colored silken reins to guide the well-bred horses.

On horseback alongside prance the ill-favored eunuchs, ready to swear at or smite the insolent
Frank venturing too near the moon-eyed beauties in the teleki.

At these Sweet Waters the sultan has his own kiosk, a gilded monstrosity of architecture, and
at its window, worn, pallid, haggard, gazing out with lacklustre and indifferent eye upon the
scene below, this shadow of the Prophet might frequently be seen a few years since. It was
etiquette for him to come sometimes, so he did it as a duty, not a pleasure; for the poor man
had no pleasures, being the most utterly blasé man in this wide world. The drawback on all
his pomp and power is the condition annexed to it, that no one is worthy of his society, and
he must be ever alone, in public as in private. A representative of the faith as well as of
the loyalty of his people, no one can be supposed to meet or associate with him on terms approaching
equality, and hence his isolation from human sympathy or society.[25]

The fountain is covered by a square roof, and all around it are marble slabs with Turkish inscriptions
in gilt letters praising the virtues of the water. In that scriptural phraseology so common
in the East you are notified that "These waters are as sweet as those of the well of Zemzem,
of which Abraham drank, and like unto those of the rivers of Paradise to the hot and thirsty
who come here to taste them." The water was really very good water, but its praises struck
us as rather hyperbolical, possibly because the Frank at Constantinople generally drinks and
prefers other and more potent beverages.

But drinking the water is the least part of the performance here, and, unlike Saratoga, "flirtation
around the spring" is a thing undreamed of where the sexes, at peril of life and limb, dare
not even approximate, much less exchange courtesies over the draught.

There is a narrow road which leads you away from this busy spot to the sources of the fountains
of these Sweet Waters. But road-making is not one of the triumphs of Turkish skill, and this
is a very dirty and dusty road, full of holes which would smash the springs of any conveyances
less primitive and strong than those in use. It is hedged in by fig trees growing to a size
which would astonish those who have only seen the dwarf trees of the species which we possess.
Passing along this road, we reach the inner valley. Here we find fewer people, but the same
astonishing variety of race and costume which makes the other so curious and characteristic.
The richness of the silk and satin dresses, all of the brightest colors, which adorn the women,
and the gayly-embroidered jackets of the men, make the eyes ache which gaze upon them. Almost
every specimen of the Eastern races may be seen here--all taking their pleasure in the same
indolent way which distinguishes Eastern enjoyment. The Circassian and Georgian women are certainly
very beautiful, as far as regularity of features, bold flashing eyes and great symmetry of
form can make them; but they lack expression, the highest feminine charm, and softness is alien
to those bold beauties. They remind you of Jezebel, and like her they "paint their faces" before
going into public. Not only do they smear their faces freely with white and red, but they also
join together their eyebrows by a thick black band of kohl, and with the same pigment blacken
the lower lids of the eyes, giving a wicked and peculiar expression to the eyes. The tips of
the fingers are stained red with henna; and without these appliances no Eastern woman deems
her toilette complete. Many of them would doubtless be exceedingly lovely were they to let
themselves alone, but Turkish taste requires these appliances, and an unpainted woman is a rarity.

It is an Eastern saying that a woman should be a load for a camel, and in deference to this
taste they fatten themselves up until they become mountains of flesh. Where obesity is considered
a charm, delicacy of outline ceases to be regarded, and a woman who has not rotundity is regarded
as an unfortunate being. They are decidedly the greatest collection of well-fed females to
be seen in the world.

The task of the black guards who accompany these houris is anything but a sinecure, and "nods
and becks and wreathed smiles" are freely bestowed on the male passers-by in spite of etiquette
and eunuchs. If the scandalous chronicles of the coffee-shops and bazaars are to be relied
upon, "Love laughs at locksmiths" here as well as in more civilized lands, and Danger and Opportunity
wink at each other. There is far less decorum and outward reserve of manner here than in our
parks, but this freedom is all confined to looks and gestures, access and converse being both
forbidden.

Frequently, however, the bad-tempered guardians of the hareem commit outrages on the persons
of real or supposed aggressors in this way, and from these even members of the foreign embassies
have not always been exempt. The difficulty of identifying the offender in such cases enhances
the impunity of these wretches, for to arrest one on the spot would be impossible in the midst
of a crowd which sympathizes with the offender, instead of the sufferer, and looks upon it
as a proper punishment for the insolent Giaour. A private person unconnected with an embassy
has still less chance for satisfaction, but must pocket the affront, even if smitten by whip
or flat of sabre, considering himself fortunate to have escaped maiming or mutilation should
he incautiously give a pretext for Ethiopian or Nubian intervention.

Few persons of foreign birth and training would go more than twice to visit the Sweet Waters
of Asia, whose peculiarities and amusements have been thus briefly sketched. The spectacle
at the European Sweet Waters differs somewhat from the routine already described. There, although
you also meet the Turks, the greater proportion of the visitors are either Greeks or native
Christians of different races. You see fewer arabas and telekis, and more carriages, or rather
hacks, and men galloping along on raw-boned horses in a kind of imitation "Rotten-Row" style.
The men wear the European dress, often surmounted by the red fez: the women dress in an insane
imitation of French fashions, and glitter with jewelry--a passion with Eastern women of all
races and creeds. Frequently a woman carries her whole fortune and her husband's in these ornaments,
which, in a country where the difference between meum and tuum is so little observed by persons
in authority, is regarded as the safest mode of investment.

The European Sweet Waters are rather more dull and less interesting than the Asiatic, owing
to the causes already described, nor is compensation to be found in the superior beauty of
the women; for, as a general rule, the Greek men are better looking than the women; and the
intercourse between the sexes is regulated on the Eastern plan to a very great extent, though
there is not the same absolute prohibition, nor the same peril attendant on the attempt to
open an acquaintance. In all Eastern countries, however, the position and treatment of woman
are modified by the prevailing prejudice, which places her on a much lower level than the man,
and deprives her of most of the cherished privileges of her more favored Western sisters. If
the Turk has failed in forcing his religious faith on his Christian vassals, he has succeeded
in fixing the social status of their women on much the same basis as his own.

The day selected for visiting the European Sweet Waters by the native or Greek population is
either Sunday or on the festival of some one of the many saints whose names are legion in the
Greek calendar. Never was there a people so fond of holidays, or who take them oftener under
religious pretexts. Yet they celebrate them in anything but a pious manner. Their fasts are
much fewer and not so punctiliously observed.

As the restriction on intoxicating beverages is not such a cardinal article of faith at the
European as at the Asiatic Sweet Waters, that element enters into the diversions at the former
place, to the frequent scandal of the decorous and abstemious Turks. The fiery wines of Sicily
and the Greek islands are freely indulged in, and tipsy cavaliers, caracoling on the hacks
of Pera and Galata, are not infrequent accessories, aggravating the danger and discomfort to
the stranger of the return in carriage or on horseback. The roughness of the road, its heat
and dust, are bad enough; but to aggravate these discomforts you have a crowd of hacks and
a swarm of cavaliers pursuing the same route, with all the collisions inevitable from unskillful
coachmen and tipsy riders. It is a long, dreary drive too, with no scenery worth looking at
on the route, even could you discern it through the dense clouds of dust which envelop you
from its commencement to its close. When you reach your hotel you take a bath to refresh yourself,
and go down to supper, exclaiming with a sigh of relief, "Well, thank Heaven! I have seen the
Sweet Waters!"

EDWIN DE LEON.

[Footnote 25: This rule was observed by Abdul Medjid, the late sultan, of whom I speak. It
is said that his successor has broken through this restriction to a considerable extent, and
is a social being.]

MADEMOISELLE STYLITES.

I.

The discussion between Mr. John Woodstock and his sister was becoming animated, and their aunt,
who never could understand the difference between a discussion and a quarrel, was listening
anxiously, expecting every moment to see Marjory flounce out of the room at one door, and John
at the other, in their respective furies. It began in this way: John had just read a notice
of an extraordinary concert to come off the next week, and had pushed the paper over to Marjory,
with the remark, "Like to go, Peg?"

She. Of course I should like to go! You don't mean to say you have tickets for it? (Excitedly.)

He. No, of course I don't: I am not a thief.

She. No, you are only the next thing to it--a shabby fellow. Why did you ask me in that way
when you knew we couldn't go?

He. How you do jump at lame and impotent conclusions! Who said we could not go? I am sure I
did not.

She. John Woodstock, if you don't stop this, and tell me what you mean, I will never make you
another shirt!

He. Small loss! Of all mean things, a homemade shirt is the meanest; and why a man of my native
nobility of character should be condemned to wear them--

Their aunt (distressedly). Children! children!--

He (soothingly). Never mind, aunty: she did not mean it. She would not put it out of her power
to say that she had made every shirt I ever wore for all the mines of Golconda.

She. What a small potato you are!

He. Now, my dear Marjory, how often must I tell you that calling a fellow names is not arguing?
If you could keep from being abusive for five minutes, you might hear of something to your
advantage. I have a little money, for a wonder, but it is like the turkey--too much for one,
and not enough for two. You cannot go by yourself, for it is an evening affair; but if you
were not so frightfully vain about your personal appearance, I think we could manage it. I
heard you say yesterday that you had the money for a new pair of gloves: if you will sacrifice
them, we can go, and in two weeks I can give you the gloves besides. I can't before, for my
princely income is at present heavily mortgaged. Can you furbish up your old ones till then,
and thereby prove yourself sensible for once?

She. You are a pretty good boy, after all; but really I have not a decent pair to my name:
that last pair of light ones got lemonade all over them, and it took the color out, of course.

He. Now I'll tell you what! I can take them for you on my way down town, and leave them to
be dyed, and then you can do some fancy-work on their backs; and what more do you want?

She (doubtfully). But would black gloves do?

He (conclusively). Of course they would for a thing like that. Fetch them out, and be quick
about it; and bring your money too, for I had better buy the tickets this morning, and then
we shall have some choice as to seats.

So it was arranged. Marjory's lofty mind did wince a little at the idea of dyed gloves, but
she tried not to think of it. John brought the objectionable kids home in time for elaborate
decoration "on their backs;" but, as he watched her in the pauses of his reading aloud, they
both observed with anxiety that the black "came off a little," and Marjory asked him to warn
her if he saw her let them go anywhere near her face.

Two children never enjoyed a holiday more than these two enjoyed that concert. Dyed gloves
and all other sublunary trials were forgotten: Marjory did not touch her face once; and when
the happy evening was over, the gloves were put away with a loving pat on their backs, and
John had risen ten degrees in Marjory's respect.

If those gloves had but rested on their laurels! But if people of genius will not do that,
can you expect it of dyed gloves? Few are the authors who have not followed up a brilliant
success with something very like a failure, and Marjory's gloves seemed to catch the spirit
of the times.

Before the two weeks were up which were to restore John to comparatively easy circumstances,
and Marjory to respectability so far as her hands went, John asked her to go with him to hear
a lecture. Just about that time he was rather wild concerning natural history, for which, I
am sorry to say, Marjory did not care a pin. She indignantly repelled the idea of a gorilla
somewhere toward the top of her family tree, asserting that she preferred to believe that she
had descended from so mean a man as Adam, and so curious a woman as Eve, to that: furthermore,
she was indifferent upon the subject. But there was not much she would not do to please John;
so when he asked her to go with him to hear a lecture about the gorilla, she made a face to
herself, and said certainly she would.

She consented with rather better grace from the fact that Mr. Pradamite--such was the lecturer's
euphonious name--undertook to prove conclusively that man was not descended from the gorilla;
but when the little old gentleman walked briskly upon the stage, she whispered John that he
would have been a valuable advocate of the theory held by the other side: he wanted nothing
but a little pointed felt hat, with a feather in it, to look very much like a small edition
of the original gorilla reduced to earning his living by assisting a hand-organist.

The lecture, to John, was delightful--so clear, so logical, went so far back, and so deep down,
and so high up. "Walked all around that fellow I heard last week on the other side," John said.
But Marjory, who had herself taken a long walk that afternoon, thought the whole thing unutterably
stupid: her eyelids would drop, her neck felt double-jointed and would not stay erect. Fortunately,
their seats were far back, not very brilliantly lighted, and Marjory's had the advantage of
being next a pillar. John, however, considered this fact unfortunate, for he could not obtain
a good view of the remarkable figures with which the old gentleman was illustrating his lecture,
talking in spasmodic jerks as he drew, and when John saw a dear and scientific friend on a
front seat, with a vacant place beside him, he could not resist the temptation to take it.
He looked at Marjory: she was half asleep, but still contending bravely for the other half.
He surveyed their immediate neighbors--three strong-minded-looking women just behind them;
a fatherly-looking old gentleman in the seat next his own; a pillar protecting Marjory on the
other side, and two highly respectable-looking young men in the row of seats before them, who
appeared to be listening intently and occasionally taking notes; at least, one of them was,
and he submitted his note-book to the criticism of the other, who smiled approvingly. The seats
immediately in front of his own and Marjory's were vacant.

"Would you mind, Peggy," said John, deprecatingly, "if I left you for a few minutes? I can't
half see what he is drawing, and there is a vacant front seat. I'll only stay five minutes."

"Certainly, dear," said Marjory with sleepy amiability: "stay up there till he has finished,
and then come back for me. I am not at all afraid."

"Oh no: I will not do that," answered John, considerately, "but I do want to go for a few minutes."
So away he went, and, once up there, he of course "took no note of time," and Marjory was left
to her own devices. These were few and simple, but small causes sometimes produce great effects.
She had on those gloves, of course.

She never could recall that part of the evening very distinctly. A confused recollection that
she found the pillar very comfortable for a while; that finally the ridges in it hurt her cheek;
that she had one or two lucid intervals between her naps, in one of which she concluded that
it would be better to take those gloves off for fear of marking her face; and that while she
was doing so she caught a sentence or two of the lecture--something like this: "This one essential
point of difference is in itself convincing proof of the theory which I hold. The difference
in the formation of the hands is a difficulty which no theory of development can overcome."
These few insignificant items were all which remained in her memory: then the little gentleman's
voice gradually took to her ears the form of a chant: his "theory," as the simple rustic said
about a matter less abstruse, "might be wrong, but it was awful soothin'," and pleasant dreams
of having four hands, all available, and not of the objectionable sort whose bones the professor
was dangling, beguiled the time for Marjory--how long she knew not.

What woke her? Surely somebody laughed? She started up: the lecture was over at last; John,
with a penitent face, was hastening back to her; the people who had sat nearest her were gone,
and so were her gloves!

"What, in thunder--" said John forcibly, looking at her face in blank amazement.

"Oh, I didn't mind," she answered mildly, thinking he was apologizing. "I believe I have had
a little nap, Jack, but I can't find my gloves: will you look under the next seat, please?"

"My dear child," said John, shaking with suppressed laughter, "your face has 'found your gloves'
with a vengeance! It's as black as--anything. Can't you put your veil down till we get out
of this?"

Obediently hiding her countenance, Marjory, bewildered and still not quite awake, followed
John after a few minutes' further and fruitless search for the missing gloves.

The brisk walk home through the frosty air restored her consciousness, and when John led her
up to the looking-glass, kindly removing her veil at the same time, consciousness took the
form of wrath.

"I never could have done all that myself," she exclaimed indignantly. "Why, I took those hateful
gloves off, and put them on the cushion; and it is just my belief that one of those dreadful
boys in front of us--"

"Boys!" interrupted John. "Those fellows were enough older than you--or I either, for that matter."

"I don't care," said Marjory, with tears of vexation in her brown eyes. "They behaved like
boys, for when I woke--I mean just before you came for me--I thought I heard somebody laugh,
and then they were gone, and my gloves were gone too; and I just believe they managed to blacken
my face somehow, and then stole my gloves."

"If I thought that--" exclaimed John savagely; and then added in a puzzled tone, "But how could
they have done it, Peg, unless you were sleeping like a rock?"

"Well, I believe I was," answered the young woman candidly, "for I was tired to death, and
couldn't understand half the gorilla said."

"It was all my fault for dragging you there, and then leaving you," said John, his penitence
making him overlook this glaring disrespect to his hobby and its rider. "But those fellows
looked like gentlemen; and besides, I know who that old man was who sat next me, and I am sure
he would not have let any such trick be played right under his nose without stopping it."

"You can think what you please," said Marjory, a little crossly, for her naturally good temper
had been severely tried, "but nothing will ever make me believe it was not those boys."

II.

Some weeks had elapsed since that sorrowful result of praiseworthy economy. Marjory's feelings
had been soothed by a pair of tan-colored kids, three-buttoned, stitched on the backs, accompanied
by a glove-buttoner and a hug from John. The mention of dyed gloves still raised a flush on
her round cheeks and painful recollections in her heart, but she was beginning to banish the
sore subject from her mind, and to half smile to herself when she did think of it; for, in
spite of the enormity of the supposed offence, the vision of her remarkable appearance when
John raised her veil before the glass was too much for her risibles as it grew more and more
retrospective. For she was one of those happy mortals who cannot help seeing a joke, even when
it points their way.

She came down stairs one evening arrayed in her best bib and tucker, and was speedily joined
by John, whose appearance likewise indicated some approaching festivity--all but his face,
which wore a rather disgusted expression. "What a bore parties are!" said that world-weary
individual from the height of his twenty-third year.

"That depends," answered Marjory with the superior wisdom of eighteen. "If one meets bright
people, they are not a bore. And I'll give you some advice, Jack: don't always take it for
granted that the girls can only talk gossip and fashions. Take it for granted that they have
at least as much sense as you have, and talk about something worth while."

"The descent of man, for instance?" suggested John, somewhat mischievously. "From the interest
you take in that, I've no doubt the rest of the girls would be charmed."

"What is that thing somebody said about the man of one book?" asked Marjory, looking abstracted.

"Don't know," replied John--"never met him."

The party was about as lively and about as stupid as parties generally are. There was a little
pleasant music, a little innocent "square dancing," a very well-ordered supper, and a good
deal of conversation.

Toward the close of the evening the hostess came to Marjory. "My dear," she said, "I have a
young friend here whom I wish to introduce to you and your brother: he told me he had heard
of John's interest in scientific matters, and as he has just come to live in the city, he has
not many acquaintances. He is a very nice fellow. I know all about him, and I want him to have
a few pleasant visiting-places: I always feel so sorry for a young man away from his family
in a large city. May I bring him and introduce him to you?"

"Certainly, if he is not stupid," said Marjory, smiling. "There is John: I will make him come
here before you have captured your young man, and then we can be introduced together.".

John, however, was talking biology or protoplasm or something else to an interested listener
on the other side of the room, and was blind to all Marjory's "nods and becks and wreathèd
smiles." So, when the amiable old lady returned with her prize, whom she appeared to have "captured"
without either difficulty or delay, Marjory had the introduction all to herself. She was not
one of those wonderful inventions, a girl who can meet a man's eyes with a steady stare, and
for the first few minutes after their hostess left them she only noticed that her new acquaintance
looked and spoke like a gentleman, that he had a very pleasant voice, and that, without being
pedantic, he was not talking nonsense. Imagine the sensation which took place in her head when,
at some bright speech from her antagonist--for they had immediately fallen into an argument--she
raised her laughing eyes to his face, and saw--one of the youths who had fallen under her righteous
indignation on the memorable night of the gorilla lecture! Marjory had what are called "speaking
eyes." It afflicted her greatly that, no matter what the emergency, her feelings would appear
in her face; so--although she struggled hard to go on as if nothing had happened, resolving,
after a hasty mental review of the situation, to behave as if she had never seen him before,
and upon better acquaintance demand the truth if she liked him, and let him severely alone
if she did not--anybody could have seen her countenance change, and to her intense chagrin
she felt herself blushing. To make matters worse, he blushed too, and over his intelligent
face flitted just the shadow of a smile.

This was too much! Marjory fanned herself vigorously, and hazarded an original observation
in a constrained voice. "Don't you think it is very warm here?" she said.

"Very!" replied the student of nature. "Shall we walk in the hall for a few minutes?" and he
offered her his arm. She rested the tips of her fingers on his sleeve, and they proceeded to
walk up and down the hall, she being saved only by her escort from collision with various other
couples similarly employed. This interesting exercise lasted for some minutes, varied by attempts
at conversation which were about as natural as spasms. Marjory took a desperate resolution.
This absurd state of things should not last much longer, if she could help it. "I never could
act as if nothing was the matter when something was," she began, "and I can't help it if this
is not polite; but I think, from what Mrs. Grove said about you, that you will tell me the
truth if I ask you something. Will you?" and she looked up once more.

"Certainly I will," he answered gravely, meeting her glance with steady, honest eyes, and somehow,
short as their acquaintance had been, she believed him.

She had meant to ask him deliberately if he or his companion, or both, had stolen her gloves
and decorated her face, but she felt unable to do that with those eyes on hers; so she changed
her tactics, and said, rather meekly, considering what her former feelings had been: "Will
you please tell me exactly what happened the evening that man lectured about the gorilla, and
you sat nearly in front of my brother and me?"

"That was your brother, then?" he said quickly, and then stopped, looking a little foolish.

"Yes," she answered, with a surprised glance at his face; "but you said you would answer."

"I beg your pardon," he replied. "I will, of course, and I know you will believe me. After
your brother left you, you leaned your head against the pillar, and then, as if the grooving
hurt your face, you put your hand between; and then--I must apologize for my apparent impoliteness,
but I promised to tell the truth;" and he smiled a little--"then you seemed to fall fast asleep.
A mosquito lit on your nose, and woke you. When you raised your head, your cheek was quite
black from your glove; you rubbed your nose and made that black too; then you went to sleep
again, and directly a curl of your hair fell over your other cheek, and woke you again, and
you gave your cheek a little slap, thinking, I suppose, that the mosquito had come back: that
left the mark of your fingers, and you rubbed it a little and made it yet blacker. Then you
took your gloves off and fell asleep again; and then--you will believe now that I am telling
you 'the truth, the whole truth, and nothing but the truth,' for I am risking your displeasure
by telling what came next;" and he flushed up to his hair--"I made up my mind that it was my
duty to secure those gloves, and prevent thereby the possibility of such an accident in the
future. So I put my arm over the back of the seat carelessly, and when nobody was looking I
picked them up and pocketed them. It was not I who laughed, but my brother, who did not notice
your face--after you had blackened it, that is--until he rose to go, when he laughed involuntarily,
and I collared him and took him off. Now you know all about it, and I await my sentence. Can
you forgive me for stealing your gloves? The motive at least was good."

Marjory's face had cleared as this highly circumstantial narrative progressed, and when it
was finished she looked up smiling. "Yes," she said, "I quite forgive you: the motive is everything.
But do please tell me, were you really so interested in what that little gorilla said as you
seemed to be? You were taking notes, you know--I saw that before I went to sleep. Now what
was there that was worth making a note of? I am sure I heard nothing."

"Would you like to see my notes?" he asked, drawing a little book from his waistcoat pocket.

"Yes, if they are not long," she answered doubtfully; "but Jack will tell you how stupid I
am on all such subjects as that."

He placed the book in her hand, open, and she saw a clever sketch of herself and the pillar:
underneath was written, "Mademoiselle Stylites."

"Did you draw that?" she asked, smiling in spite of herself.

"Yes," he replied, answering her smile. "I am fond of sketching from nature." Then, as he glanced
at the picture, he added hastily, "I forgot that absurd inscription: George, my brother, did that."

Marjory did not look deeply offended, even at the "absurd inscription;" and the conversation
continued, upon different and indifferent subjects, until John bethought himself of his duty,
and came to find her. She introduced her squire to him, and after a few minutes more of pleasant
conversation they separated, Mr. Owen--such was the natural philosopher's name--having received
John's assurance of a speedy call upon him, and given his address with an alacrity which proved,
John thought, that they were kindred spirits.

As they walked home, John suddenly exclaimed, "You know I never remember faces, Peg, but somehow
I feel as if I had seen that fellow before. He's an uncommonly good fellow, and Mrs. Grove
says he is very fond of my hobby, as you call it, so I shall go to see him soon."

Of course Marjory gave him an outline of her evening's adventure "upon this hint," and he laughed
heartily at the whole thing, assuring her that he had never believed for a moment in such an
absurd possibility as she had fancied.

Well, what of it all? Nothing particular. Mr. Owen and John are fast friends by this time.
Marjory is beginning to take an interest in natural history. Also, she has lost all faith in
conviction upon circumstantial evidence. She is "o'er young to marry yet," her aunt thinks,
and so do I of course, for this is not a love-story: I wish that to be distinctly understood.

MARGARET VANDEGRIFT.

THE MYSTERY OF MASSABIELLE.

It was a mild and pleasant day in the middle of February, and the bright sunlight streamed
through the windows of the poor little room where Madame Soubirons sat alone. The table, with
its dishes neatly arranged for the noonday meal, stood in the middle of the room. A pot hung
in the large fireplace, and a skillet sat upon the few remaining coals. There was nothing with
which to replenish the fire, and Madame Soubirons sat gazing at the flickering embers with
a rueful face. "A cold hearth is more chilling than the mountains," she said; and she rose
and went out of the poor little apartment, which, with all its poverty, would not have been
cheerless had a bright fire glowed upon the neatly-kept hearth, and sat down upon the doorstep,
where the sunlight fell warmly.

From this position was afforded a view of a picturesque and romantic landscape, presenting
in the foreground a portion of the quaint village of Lourdes, with the cross of the old church
brightly gleaming in the sunlight above the thickly-clustered cottage roofs. Farther away stood
the great mill, and grimly from its rocky seat frowned the ancient castle, of which the people
of Lourdes never wearied of telling that it had been besieged by Charlemagne centuries ago.
In the distance glanced the river Gave, fighting its rock-riven way to the sea. The prospect,
growing continually more grand as it receded, was finally hedged about by the majestic Pyrenees,
which lifted their glimmering snows against the pale winter sky.

But Madame Soubirons was familiar with these scenes, and had no eyes for them. She sat leaning
her cheek upon her hand, and as she glanced down the crooked walk she murmured, "They have
had time to get back, if they hurried as I charged them." Presently a cheery whistle rang out
upon the air, and looking up she saw a man in miller's dress approaching. It was Jean Soubirons,
her husband, coming home to dinner. She waited until he arrived, and they then went into the
house together.

"Can you eat a cold dinner to-day, Jean?" she asked. "I have only bread and milk to give you."

"Yes, with thanks, Louise," he replied; "but where are Bernadette and Marie?"

"They went with Jeanne Abadie to gather fagots, but they should have been back long since.
You might then have had a warm dinner."

"All is well if they come to no harm, but it is somewhat chilly for our Bernadette."

"I gave her a pair of stockings to wear. She can't go like Marie, poor child! who can hardly
endure her sabots, even in winter. But I do not see what detains them."

They sat down and ate in silence, the two vacant places seeming to fill them with a feeling
of desolation.

"I am sorry," said Jean Soubirons as he rose from the table, "that I am so poor a man that
my little girls must bring the wood for the pot."

"Perhaps we shall be richer some day, Jean," said Louise, as if she had hope.

"Perhaps so--in heaven," said he sadly, "where there are no poor;" and he went back to his work.

Meantime the three girls had been wandering. Of the two sisters, Marie was rosy and strong,
but Bernadette pale and delicate, being afflicted with asthma. Bernadette appeared to be only
ten years old, but was fourteen. Previous to this time almost all her life had been passed
away from home, she having lived at Bastres with a friend of her mother, where she had been
provided with a home for the small sum of five francs a month and her service in tending the
sheep: she was not strong enough for more laborious work. Here Bernadette lived a calm and
uneventful life, her duties causing her to be much in solitude, which she whiled away in petting
her lambs. Very often the time had been set when she was to return home, but it was as often
postponed. Her friends at Bastres could not bear to give her up, and year after year she had
lingered with them. She had been at home only two weeks upon that day when she went with Jeanne
and Marie to gather sticks.

The three girls, dressed in their black woolen frocks, white capulets and wooden shoes--Bernadette
alone having stockings, in consideration of her health--trudged on, enjoying the pure air.
They crossed the bridge of the Gave, passed the mill and went on through the meadow, turning
their steps toward the grotto of Massabielle, which was not far distant. There are, properly
speaking, several grottoes in the rocks of Massabielle, which consist of numerous excavations
formed by Nature in the great crags. One of these, however, is usually referred to as "The
Grotto," and is a cavern of quite extensive dimensions, being about thirteen feet high by fifty
wide. There are two other excavations in the rock above this cavern, one of which rudely resembles
the broken window of a ruined church--suggesting that idea the more forcibly perhaps from the
fact that it admits light into the lower cavern.

Before reaching the entrance of the grotto, however, there was a small stream to be crossed.
There was no bridge, but this was only a slight hindrance to Jeanne and Marie, who took off
their shoes, and, springing from stone to stone, were soon over. They were in advance of Bernadette,
who stopped frequently to cough, and when she came up to the stream they were putting on their
wooden shoes.

"How cold the water is!" she heard one say, and she hesitated to step into the cold stream.
Jeanne saw her pausing upon the brink, and called out, "Cross as we did: give long leaps and
come over." She called to them then to throw stones in for her to step upon, but they were
busily engaged piling up sticks, and paid no attention to her, so she began to pull off her
shoes and stockings. When she bent down she heard a great rushing sound, as of the water and
the wind. It seemed as if a great storm were breaking, but when she looked up all was calm.
The leaves scarcely stirred in the breeze, and the trails of ivy that hung over the rocky windows
of the grotto swayed gently to and fro. So she proceeded to pull off her stockings unalarmed.
After a few seconds the noise increased, and when Bernadette again looked up she saw a beautiful
vision standing in the window or upper entrance of the grotto, which was filled with the lustre
of its halo. The apparition was dressed in pure white, and bore a chaplet upon its arm, and
had no resemblance to Bernadette's ideal of the Virgin. The child was filled with awe, but
felt no fear, and reverently kneeling she continued to gaze at the vision, which smiled upon
her and made the sign of the cross. Bernadette did likewise. The appearance then vanished,
and for some time Bernadette remained spell-bound and still kneeling and gazing abstractedly
into the grotto, from which the luminous quality had faded. After a short time she recovered
from her transport, and looking around her found the appearance of nothing changed. The stream
rushed on, the trees were the same, and in the hollow of the grotto the wild brier grew in
its accustomed place, and the clinging moss and the ivy trails were unchanged.

Bernadette made her way across the stream as quickly as she could, and hastening onward soon
overtook Marie and Jeanne, who looked up in surprise at her haste. When she had reached them
their surprise deepened into wonder as they observed the emotion depicted in her face.

"Have you seen nothing?" inquired Bernadette, her eyes all aglow with excitement.

"No: what is it?" said Marie.

"It is something strange," said Bernadette.

"It could not have been stranger than you look now, with your staring eyes and your flying
hair," said Jeanne.

"What have you seen, Bernadette?" asked Marie.

"Some one in white, bright and gleaming," said Bernadette.

"What did it do? Describe it," exclaimed Jeanne.

"I cannot describe it. If you haven't seen it, I can't tell you what it was like," she said.

The two other girls were frightened. "Will it hurt us?" asked Marie.

"I am afraid of such things," said Jeanne: "let us hurry home as fast as we can."

Bernadette was not afraid, but, habitually passive, she hurried with them without protest.
When they arrived at home she told her mother her experience, and Madame Soubirons, being incredulous,
attempted to convince Bernadette that her vision was only a creature of her fancy; but with
no avail. The child was silenced, but not convinced. Madame Soubirons said she would not allow
her daughter to go to the grotto any more, as it filled her with such ideas; and she expected
to hear no more about the matter. But the next day Bernadette talked incessantly of her "Dame,"
and on the following day, when some one inquired what her vision was like, she replied that
she had seen such a face at church; and on the third day, which was Sunday, she prevailed upon
her mother to allow her to go to the grotto again.

Marie and Jeanne accompanied her as before. Having arrived at the grotto, Bernadette knelt
before the aperture: Marie and Jeanne followed her example, and when they turned to look at
her they were amazed at her appearance. She seemed to be transfigured. Her face was radiant.
With her eyes fixed, her lips partly open and her hands clasped, she appeared to listen with
the greatest attention. Her companions were frightened by her strange behavior, and implored
her to rise and go home with them.

"Bernadette, get up! Come: we are afraid of you when you look so strange."

She seemed to hear them no more than if she had been a statue, and for a few moments the group
remained silent and motionless. There was no sound except the swirling of the stream and the
rustling of the leaves, and to Marie and Jeanne the very silence seemed to be a spell of enchantment.
Presently the rapturous light died out of the face of Bernadette, and she appeared as usual,
much to the relief of the others.

Upon their arrival at home the same story was told by Bernadette as before, and again it was
disbelieved. No restriction was placed upon her going to the grotto, however, and she continued
to visit it, when her vision arose before her again and again. In course of time the singular
event became much talked about, especially among the peasantry of that vicinity, who believed
implicitly that the Virgin Mary appeared to the child.

People began to accompany Bernadette upon her visits to the grotto, and the number and interest
of her observers daily increased. Many who were entirely skeptical went for the purpose of
gratifying their curiosity. Among this class were Madame Millet and Mademoiselle Antoinette
Peyret, who accompanied the little girl one day with the intention of questioning her after
they had studied her conduct. On this occasion she excited their suspicions by leading them
by an unaccustomed route down a steep and rocky path, where they had great difficulty in following
her. They finally arrived at the grotto, and were astounded to observe the change that came
over her. She seemed to be in a state of ecstatic awe.

The ladies were so solemnly impressed by her appearance that they felt deep regret for having
intruded upon so reverent a scene.

"It is a profanation for us to be here," said one.

"You must remain," said Bernadette immediately, as if she had been directed to stop them.

"Ask who she is," exclaimed Madame Millet, greatly excited. "Here, take this card and pencil,
and beg of her that she will write down her wishes."

Bernadette took them, and the ladies heard her repeat the request as she approached the excavation
and the divine radiance lighted up her face. She paused, and for several moments remained in
an apparent state of rapture: then she returned to them, and in reply to their inquiries said
that her "Dame" had said that she saw no necessity to write her wishes, for she knew Bernadette
would obey.

"Obey what?" asked Mademoiselle Peyret. "What did she command you to do?"

"To come to meet her at the grotto every day for fifteen days."

"Why?"

"I don't know why."

"But did she not say anything more?"

"Yes, madame."

"What?"

"She promised that if I did so I should be happy in a future world."

Madame Millet and Mademoiselle Peyret went home mystified. The story of their futile attempt
to discover deception in Bernadette got abroad, "and still the wonder grew." The interest in
the visions intensified, and vast crowds, numbered not by tens, but by hundreds, assembled
to watch Bernadette during the appointed fifteen days. The entire population of Lourdes appeared
to be included in the crowd. The presence of this observing multitude exerted no influence
whatever upon Bernadette, who passed among them as they made way for her without looking to
the right or to the left, as if she had too great thoughts on her mind to give any heed to
the people. Day after day she repeated her visits, kneeling in her accustomed place and giving
herself up to a state of ecstasy.

About this time, so great had become the popular excitement over the child, the attention of
the authorities was attracted by it. Accordingly, M. Massy, prefect of the commune, and M.
Jacomet, commissaire de police, conferred together, and decided to arrest Bernadette as an
impostor. It was on the 11th of February, 1858, when the girl had her first vision, and about
ten days thereafter, in the presence of a great crowd, a police-officer approached her, and
laying his hand upon her shoulder took her to the commissaire for examination.

Imagine this simple and artless child boldly confronting the commissaire, who must have been,
in her eyes, a person of high dignity! M. Jacomet plied her with questions and cross-questions,
and used all his power to implicate her in some inconsistency or contradiction; but his efforts
were futile, and he was obliged to confess that he could not make out any case against the
child, whom he allowed to go home. Still, his dignity required some show of authority; so he
commanded Jean Soubirons that he should not permit Bernadette to go to the grotto of Massabielle,
under penalty of imprisonment. Then he wrote to M. Rouland, minister of public instruction,
for advice.

Soubirons kept his daughter at home for a day or two: then, observing her to grieve under the
restraint, decided to risk the wrath of M. Jacomet, and allowed her to go where she wished.
The people upheld Soubirons, and the crowds at the grotto assembled again. It was then proposed
by some to consult Peyramale, the curé, who was known to discredit the stories of Bernadette,
and it was thought might disabuse her mind of its illusions or detect her imposture, as the
case might be; but Peyramale would not make any efforts in that direction. However, Bernadette,
of her own accord, came to him one day, saying she wished to speak to him.

"Are you the daughter of the miller Soubirons?" asked Peyramale.

"Yes, monsieur le curé," she said.

"What is it you wish?"

"I came to say that the Lady who appears to me in the grotto of Massabielle--"

"Hush, child!" interrupted Peyramale. "Do not repeat this foolish tale to me. You have stirred
the whole country round with the story of your vision, but do not bring such tales to me. What
do you mean by this? I tell you, child, the Virgin sees you now, and if you practice imposture
the door of heaven will be for ever shut against you."

Bernadette was in no wise disturbed, and resumed her narrative without faltering.

"What, then, is the name of your vision?" asked Peyramale when she had told him the story of
her experience.

"I don't know," she replied.

"Was it the Virgin?"

"I do not say that it was the Virgin," said Bernadette, "but I know that I see her as plainly
as I see you now, and she speaks to me distinctly; and she commanded me to say to you that
she wishes a church to be built on the rock of Massabielle."

Peyramale was astonished at the strange language and the firmness of the child, and replied:
"Your story, Bernadette, is beyond reason: still, your manner is honest. Do not give yourself
up, I pray you, to an illusion of your mind. You have some fancy, it may be, that deceives
you. The Virgin could command me as well as yourself. You say there is a brier growing in the
grotto: if your vision wants me to build a church on the cliff, tell her she must first cause
that brier to bring forth roses in this winter season."

Having received this reply, Bernadette withdrew. When she next saw her vision she delivered
the message of Peyramale, but it was not regarded. The apparition commanded her to go as far
as she could on her hands and knees, and when Bernadette had done so, to the great wonder of
her observers she was commanded to drink. She rose, and was about to go to the stream, when
the vision called her back and told her to drink of the fountain, not of the stream. Now, there
was no fountain, but Bernadette instinctively dug a small hole in the earth with her hands,
and a very small stream of water flowed forth from the earth and filled it. She dipped some
up with her hands and drank. This little stream continued to flow, and increased in size. On
the following day it was many times its original size. Travelers are to this day shown the
stream near the grotto of Massabielle, which, it is declared, thus sprang from a miraculous
source. Three hundred people are declared to have seen this miracle, and in different regions
of France many people may still be found who declare that they were present upon that occasion.

After this, still greater crowds flocked to the grotto of Massabielle, and again the authorities
interfered. MM. Massy and Jacomet for a long time waged their war with the people until the
emperor telegraphed, ordering that all interference should be stopped. Thus the people were
left in peaceful possession of their fountain, and reports of its marvelous cures filled all
the papers, and visitors came from far and near, bringing cans and bottles to fill at the wondrous
stream.

It will be remembered that Peyramale had demanded that the brier should blossom before a church
should be built. In spite of his decision there now stands not far from the grotto a church
that has already cost two and a half millions of francs, though not completed, and numerous
convents are projected to occupy sites in the vicinity. A statue of the Virgin stands in the
grotto where the vision appeared, and on the rock are hung numerous crutches and staffs, which
it is claimed were left there by those cripples whom the waters of the spring have healed.

Bernadette became day by day an object of still greater interest--in some cases of reverence.
Many offers were made to provide for herself and her family, but they were declined, and both
her parents died poor, her mother so late as December 18, 1866. Marie Soubirons and a brother,
it is said, still live at Lourdes, but Bernadette became a Sister of Charity, and is now an
inmate of the Hospice of Nevers, under the name of Sister Marie Bernard. At this institution
she took the veil, and she occupies herself, when health admits, in tending the sick. She lives
a life of great seclusion, and is almost utterly ignorant of all that occurs outside the hospice
walls. From the letter of a graphic writer I quote as follows: "She is now twenty-five. She
is not beautiful in feature, but in expression. Her look has a soft, melting attraction. She
is a great sufferer, and is tried by cruel pains in her chest, which she bears very patiently,
saying the Virgin told her she should be happy in heaven."

Early in October, 1872, a cable despatch from Paris appeared in all the dailies, announcing
that fifty thousand pilgrims were then journeying through France toward Lourdes. Their object
was to assemble at the grotto of Massabielle to pray for the salvation and regeneration of
France, so lately desolated by war. A large proportion of the pilgrims came from Paris, where
their journey had been inaugurated by services at Notre Dame des Victoires. Indeed, it may
be said that their entire journey was one long religious service, for litanies were chanted
unceasingly upon the route. The grand service at the grotto took place October 6th, when five
bishops conducted mass and vespers at five altars reared among the rocks; and other services
were conducted at numerous chapels and shrines among the mountains for miles around by various
pilgrim priests. A sermon was delivered to the great host by the bishop of Tarbes, the subject
being the disasters of the nation. He closed by exhorting them to patriotism. Raising his arms
to the multitude, he asked, "Will you promise to serve and love your country as I mean?"

"Yes! yes! yes!" answered the vast host in thunderous response.

"Will you cry 'Vive la France!' as children should who have been nurtured from the breast of
a cherishing mother?"

"Vive la France!" resounded from rock and valley.

Then turning toward the statue of the Virgin, the bishop cried, "Vive the Church, the Rock
of Ages!" Again the mighty voice of the crowd responded, and with the final cry of "Vive the
Holy Father, Pius IX.!" the assemblage broke up.

Probably there were no scenes incidental to the pilgrimage more imposing than its processions,
formed in the public square of Lourdes. One of them was a mile long, and the van had entered
the meadow before the rear had left the square. It was composed of people of all classes, who
sang hymns as with one mighty voice. It bore banners of violet, green, rose, blue and other
colors, magnificently decorated with gilding, paintings and embroidery. These banners numbered
nearly three hundred, and came from various parts of the country. Even far-off Algeria was
represented. The banner of Alsace and Lorraine was in mourning, and was borne by girls in white.
As it passed many persons pressed forward to kiss its hanging tassels. The banner from Nantes
was so profusedly embellished with gold and other decorations that six strong men labored to
support it; and those from Paris, Bordeaux, Rheims, Lille, etc. were not greatly inferior to
it in elegance. The sun shone brightly, and with the grandeur of the banners and the pomp of
the prelates in their rich sacerdotal robes formed a scene of indescribable splendor.

At the farther end of the meadow or valley an altar had been erected. Here the banners drew
up in a vast semicircle enclosing the great audience, and vespers were sung, after which the
fifty thousand worshipers knelt and received the benediction, which was pronounced by eight
bishops simultaneously. The services before the altar being thus concluded, the bearers of
the banners again formed in procession for the purpose of carrying them to the church upon
the rock, in which they were to be placed. At this time the sun was sinking behind the blue
Pyrenean peaks, and as it threw its last red gleams upon the splendid train that wound in and
out along the craggy mountain-path it lighted up a picture of resplendent glory. As fast as
the banners arrived at the church they were placed upon its walls, which were soon completely
covered with their gorgeous hangings. Owing to the length of the procession, it was after sunset
when the last banner had been placed in the church, which, with its brilliant adornments flashing
in the blaze of wax tapers, was one grand glow of glittering splendor. After a brief service
of thanksgiving the congregation withdrew, and descended the mountain in the light of bonfires
that burned upon numerous cliffs.

A spectacle of equal brilliancy, though less pompous, was presented by the grand torchlight
procession which formed one evening in the square of Lourdes, where all were provided with
candles. Thirty thousand persons were in this procession. They marched to the grotto of Massabielle
and to the church upon the rock, moving slowly and singing hymns. As they moved they formed
a great stream of glittering light, which rolled on and on and up and up, across the meadow
and up the sinuous mountain-path. This impressive display lasted until midnight, when the greater
number of the lights had died out and their bearers retired. But a goodly company still remained
in the crypt of the church at prayer, in some instances fighting off sleep by marching up and
down in companies, chanting night-prayers.

Thus a nation's ardent worshipers assembled in devotion at the spot sanctified by the visions
of Bernadette Soubirons. And what shall we say of her? Her professed visions cannot be set
aside as impostures against the voice of thousands whose skepticism, as great as ours, has
been abashed. It could not have been in the nature of this artless child, unencouraged and
alone, to have been an impostor. Such would have been a rôle thoroughly foreign to her character.
Perhaps there may have been illusion, a self-nourished fancy, evoked from the silent reveries
of those solitary days at Bastres, when her mind was for long periods given up to undisturbed
imaginings. Who can say?

WILLIAM D. WOOD.

BENEDICTION.

  Good-bye, good-bye, my dearest!
  My bravest and my fairest!
  I bless thee with a blessing meet
    For all thy manly worth.
  Good-bye, good-bye, my treasure!
  My only pride and pleasure!
  I bless thee with the strength of love
    Before I send thee forth.

  Mine own! I fear to bless thee,
  I hardly dare caress thee,
  Because I love thee with a love
    That overgrows my life;
  And as the time gets longer
  Its tender throbs grow stronger:
  My maiden troth but waits to be
    The fondness of the wife.

  Alas! alas! my dearest,
  The look of pain thou wearest!
  The kisses thou dost bend to give
    Are parting ones to-day!
  Thy sheltering arms are round me,
  But the cruel pain hath found me.
  What shall I do with all this love
    When thou art gone away?

  Ah well! One poor endeavor
  Shall nerve me while we sever:
  I will not fret my hero's heart
    With piteous sobs and tears.
  I send thee forth, my dearest,
  My truest and my rarest,
  And yield thee to the keep of Him
    Who blessed our happier years.

  Once more good-bye! and bless thee!
  My faltering lips caress thee.
  When shall I feel thy hand again
    Go kindly o'er my hair?
  Let the dear arms that fold me
  One last sweet moment hold me:
  In life or death our love shall be
    No weaker for the wear!

HOWARD GLYNDON.

A NIGHT IN BEDFORD, VIRGINIA.

"The general has been sending his ambulance"--Bless these ambulances! they are as common in
Virginia as hen-nest grass or clumps of sassafras--"to the dépôt every morning for three or
four days for you."

"The deuce he has! Then why didn't he let me know by letter, as I asked him to do?"

"Can't say, really."

This conversation took place in the main street of the extraordinary city of Lugston--a city
so very peculiar that I must give it an entire article some day.

Repairing forthwith to a newspaper office, I wrote to the general how sorry I was that he had
been put to so much trouble--I had not received the letter which he must have written--obliged
to go home in the morning--hoped at some future time to have the pleasure, etc., etc. Then
I went to my lodgings on Federal Hill, and, behold! there was the letter. "Although the ambulance"--ever
blessed!--"had been so often to the dépôt, it would be there on Monday morning, and again on
Tuesday evening. Don't fail to," etc. Whereupon I called for paper and wrote the general that,
in spite of the necessity for my returning home the next day, I would be at Blank Station on
Tuesday evening and meet that ambulance--blessed ambulance!--or die in the struggle. Go I would,
and go I went--if that is grammar.

A newspaper editor--there is no end of editors in Virginia: wherever there is a tank, a tan-yard
or a wood-pile, there you find one--a learned professor who had a flourishing school a few
miles up the road (public instruction is playing hob with most of the private schools in Virginia),
and a judge on a lecturing-tour (how is a Virginia judge to support his family without lecturing,
wood-sawing or other supplementary business?) entertained me most agreeably on my way to the
station.

A cadet from Annapolis was the first object that met my eye when I got out.

"'S death! a Virginian in that hated uniform?"

I said no such thing, felt no such thing, but was inwardly pleased that Uncle Sam's money (he
gets ten millions a year out of Virginia tobacco, and then brags about what he does for our
children, the sly old dog!) was educating some of our boys who otherwise might not be educated
half so well, if at all. Moreover, the broad shoulders, the trim flanks, the aquiline nose,
brown hair and ruddy cheeks of the young fellow recalled the best specimens of British lads
whom I had seen in Canada and elsewhere. In truth, I could hardly persuade myself that he was
not English.

Albion was in the air, for on the other side of the dépôt there was a lot of trunks and other
baggage, the make of which could not be mistaken. I soon learned that one of the best estates
in the neighborhood had been sold to an Englishman, who had arrived that very day.

"Furies! the sacred soil of Virginia again passing into the hands of the blarsted Hinglish,
from whom it was wrested a century ago by the blood and treasure of George Washington's hatchet!
A Federal cadet on one side and an Englishman on the other of Blank Dépôt, away off here in
Bedford! What are we coming to?"

I did not say or think this either, but was delighted to find John Bull pervading the Old Dominion.

Another and a bitterer pill, had I been as disloyal as I was five years ago, and ought to be
now, awaited me, as you shall hear.

But where is that ambulance? The blessed vehicle was there, and, after so long and painful
a separation, we should have met face to face if it had not been backed up to the platform
to receive--whom? me? No, a parcel of ladies, who filled every seat. My inflammable Southside
soul would have burst into a high blaze at this if a gentleman had not immediately stepped
forward with a snug jug of whisky. Whisky in any vessel I love, but whisky in a jug not too
big to handle easily I adore. My viznomy relaxed, a beam of joy began to irradiate my features,
when to my extreme surprise the benevolent jug-gentleman said, "Take a glass of claret punch"--he
had the glass as well as the jug--"won't you, sir?"

Amazement! claret punch in a jug at a dépôt in the heart, or at any rate the pericardium, of
Bedford county! Where was I? who was I? what was my name? and where was I going to? In my life
I was never more nonplussed.

The ambulance drove off, and I was consigned to a spring wagon with a white boy for a driver.

"How far is it to the general's?" I ventured to ask as I stepped in.

"Eight miles."

"Whew!"

"Never mind, sir: we shall be there in an hour and a half."

And off we went like the wind. He drove very boldly and at the same time very cautiously, avoiding
the numerous stumps, stones and ruts with admirable dexterity. I began to suspect that the
boy was not a Virginia boy. When at length we reached the smooth stage-road I began to question
him: "Are you the general's son?"

"No, sir: that was my father at the station"--he of the jug.

"How do you like this country?"

My habit from childhood had been to take the life of any stranger who had the audacity to tell
me that he did not like any and every part of Virginia, but of late I have contented myself
with slicing off his ears.

"The longer I live here the better I like it."

Smart boy! he had saved his auditory organs. But as yet his accent had not been sufficiently
defined to enable me to tell his nationality. "You are not from England, are you?"

"No, indeed, sir--from New Hampshire."

The appalling truth was out. First, a Yankee uniform; second, an Englishman; third, a whole
raft, a "hull lot," of New Hampshire Yankees; and yet they call this Virginia!

No wonder I was silent. Night had fallen, we had entered a dark forest, there was an unreconstructed
penknife (somehow or other, I always forget my bowie-knife and Derringers now-a-days) recently
sharpened in my pocket. Why did I not cut the throat of this little Oppressor and fatten the
soil of my native land with the blood of the small ruthless Yankee Invader?

It was just because at this moment we caught up with the ambulance. The two vehicles halted,
a young girl and a little boy left the ambulance and took seats by the side of my driver, and
the greeting of the brother and sister--the latter having just returned from a visit to her
native granite hills--was actually as affectionate, beautiful and sweet as if they had been
born in the middle of the Mother of States and of Statesmen. And as the ambulance drove on
there came floating back to us ever and anon on the night wind a still sweeter voice. It came
from a young lady--a young Yankee lady at that--and it sounded sweet to me--to me myself, my
own dear, unadulterated, real Old Virginia self.

Turning from the main road, we wound around among the rocky ravines in a fashion truly bewildering
to a body with weak eyes, but my little Yankee driver seemed so much at home that I felt no
shadow of fear. Arriving safely at the general's capacious mansion, I bade my Northern friends
good-night, and sat down to a supper without fried chickens or coffee. In lieu of the latter
we had cold tea, with a slice of lemon in each goblet. After a long talk on matters of no concern
to the reader, during which the general related a number of capital war-anecdotes, I contrived,
as is my wont, to turn the conversation upon agricultural topics, with the view of imparting
to him a modicum of that consummate farming wisdom which appertains to every thoroughly conceited
scribbler.

"Fine country you have, general."

"Yes: from Lugston to the Tennessee line, two hundred good miles, the country is as fine as
the sun ever shone upon."

"Appears to be thinly settled."

"You may well say so. Between my house and the station there are eight or nine thousand acres,
most of it excellent land, belonging to only five or six owners."

"Indeed! What are such immense tracts good for now-a-days?"

"Good for grass."

"But they seem to pay little attention to grass."

"True. It is a splendid cheese country, as I have proved, but our people are not up to that
as yet."

"They will grow tobacco. I saw some fine timber sacrificed for the sake of new-ground tobacco."

"And why not? A man gets tired of paying taxes for twenty or thirty years on timber which yields
him nothing."

I smiled an invisible smile, reverting in my thoughts to an assault I had made the week before
upon my kinsman in Buckingham. "William," said I, "why will you Southside people continue to
exhaust your land with tobacco?"

"Dick," he replied, "you are the doggonedest fool out of jail. You, raised in Virginia, and
ask a question like that! Wheat is uncertain, corn doesn't pay, we are too far from market
for vegetables, too poor to put our lands in grass, and tobacco is the only thing that will
fetch money. As for exhausting land, plenty of tobacco is raised in Ohio and Connecticut, and
you never hear anybody talk about exhausting land there."

"Yes, but there they manure heavily, giving back to the land as much as they take, or more."

"Well, old-field pine is good enough manure for a man who has plenty of land and can take his
time."

Thus in two instances my anti-tobacco wisdom turned out to be about as profitable as King James's
memorable Counterblast against the beloved weed of Virginia.

"But, general," said I, "surely your neighbors don't want to retain such vast tracts of land."

"Certainly not. Men do not like to part with good land, and if my friends could set their farms
well in grass, so that a few hands could attend to them, they would only sell at very high
figures; but being unable to do this, they are willing, and many of them anxious, to sell on
most reasonable terms."

"What is the trouble, then?"

"The trouble is about houses."

"Explain."

"Wealthy people seldom emigrate. The men who leave home have generally but limited means, and
coming here they find just the soil and climate they desire, but no place to lay their heads;
and few if any of them can afford to buy land and build houses at the same time. This, I am
satisfied, is the main difficulty in the way of the speedy filling up of Virginia with the
best class of yeoman settlers."

"A difficulty not easily remedied."

"No, for our people, rich in land, are even poorer in money than the immigrants themselves."

"How on earth, then, did you manage to sell to the New Hampshire gentleman who came with me
this evening, and who, as I learn, bought a part of your farm?"

"Why, I had a roomy house, and I just opened my doors to him and his family, and kept them
here free of charge till their own house was finished."

"Well, general," dropping my voice to the Secesh conspirator level, "how do you like him?"

The general, known by the antique name of Jones (though the Sixth Pennsylvania and other Northern
cavalry were acquainted with him under another cognomen), like all the strapping sons of thunder
who went actively into the field instead of staying at home and abusing Jeff. Davis, does not
regard his late enemies with that intense hatred which is so gratifying to myself and some
other people.

He spoke out aloud: "I like him first rate. He is an admirable neighbor--a man of sense, practical,
sagacious and industrious; and his family, wife, sons and daughters, are in all respects worthy
of him. I wish the county had a thousand of just such people."

This was a crusher for me. Drawing myself up to my full height--which ought to be but is not
six feet--I seized a kerosene lamp with my right hand, and looking the unfortunate man full
in the eye, I said very respectfully, "General, good-night."

Undismayed, he eyed me back, and, in a tone of what I took to be cordiality, replied, "Maybe
you'd like a little whisky-and-water before going to bed?"

I thanked him "No," mounted the lofty staircase, divested myself of sundry sartorial cerements
and plunged my earthly tabernacle into the centre of a big delicious bed. There, while the
thunder rolled among the mountains, the rain plashed upon the window-shutters and the wind
blew like the very devil, I muttered to myself, "Here is a man bearing worthily one of the
most honored names in the Commonwealth--a member, in fact, of one of the first--the first--first
fam--families in Vir--gin--ia, actually pr--prais--praising Yan--Yank--Yankees in--in's own
hou--" I was asleep.

On the morrow, when I returned to the station and saw how very lovely the country was, how
fertile--the rounded mountains, when cleared of their royal forests, arable to their very summits,
the air like Olympian nectar, the sunshine a divine balm, the whole scene a Sabbath-land of
peace and of boundless plenty, awaiting only the cohorts of the North and of the white-cliffed
isle--I would fain have cried, "Come, ye moderately pecunious Bulls, and you, ye hyperborean
Vandals from the far Lake of Winnipiseogee and the uttermost Cape of Cod--come to this Canaan,
not like carpet-bagging spies to steal our big bunch of grapes and tote it off on a stick between
two of you (as per authentic pictures in Sunday-school books), but with your shekels, your
deniers, your pence, pounds sterling and crisp greenbacks: come to this beauteous land, take
it, own it, possess it, buy freely, and be sure you reserve enough cash to build a house with;
or, better still, bring your houses ready made, in nests like buckets or painted pails (I am
sure you have them in your inventive realm). Come, I say, and oust these mutton-headed Virginians,
or sit down beside them, work with them, teach them to work (you are so certain you can), and
make this American republic the Storehouse of the nations, the Cornucopia of all creation!"

I got to the station just three hours after the train I intended to take had left, and had
to wait only two hours for the next train; which was doing pretty well for Virginia. Possessing
my Southside soul in patience, I bought two not very bad cigars for ten cents, and fell to
contemplating some eight or nine of the Down-Trodden who were hanging around. I must say that
the Down-Trodden did not appear to have been much flattened by the heel of the Oppressor.

The relevancy of this utterly absurd thing did not then strike me. I see it now. A certain
people--whom I do love with my whole heart, not in spite of their faults, but because of them:
are they not my own?--have been dancing the Haul-back for many generations, and now, under
my own eye and quite perceptibly in the rural parts of Virginia, the dance is coming to an
end. Slowly but surely we are lapsing into Bullo-doodledom, with a momentary preponderance
of Bull. Tempora--do, I entreat you, allow me the use of my solitary dear delightful old bit
of Latin--mutantur; ay! and we mutate with them. The world moves, and no amount of Haul-back
will stay it.

RICHARD B. ELDER.

OUR MONTHLY GOSSIP.

THE WELLESLEY-POLES.

The death was announced a few weeks ago of a lady whose name will awaken a train of recollection
in the minds of all who take an interest in English family history. This was Miss Tylney-Long,
sister to the ill-fated Mrs. Tylney-Long-Wellesley-Pole.

The duke of Wellington's second brother, William, succeeded in 1778 to the large Irish estates
of a kinsman, Mr. Pole, and assumed that name in addition to his own. Mr. Wellesley-Pole, who
was eventually created a peer as Lord Maryborough, had a son, who became, on the death of his
uncle, the marquis Wellesley, earl of Mornington. Never had the peerage a more unworthy member.
Starting in life with every advantage, Mr. Wellesley-Pole seemed bent upon showing how effectually
he could foil the efforts of Fortune to serve him. When he reached an age for marriage the
greatest heiress of the time was Miss Tylney-Long. By a succession of failures of male heirs
the vast wealth of the family of Child had devolved on this lady, and Mr. Wellesley-Pole became
the successful suitor for her hand. One of her seats was Wanstead in Essex, some fifteen miles
from London. Originally a royal manor, Wanstead was granted by Edward VI. to Lord Rich, who
sold it to Elizabeth's favorite, Leicester. Subsequently, on its reverting to the Crown, James
I. gave it to Sir Henry Mildmay, but, he having been one of Charles I.'s judges, it became
forfeited, and once more returned to the sovereign. Charles II. gave it to his brother James,
who sold it to Sir Robert Brooke, and he in turn sold it to Sir Joshua Child.

The Childs were the greatest mercantile family of their time. Sir Joshua founded the banking-house
of the name which still flourishes (the oldest in London), and of which the young earl of Jersey
is, through his great-grandmother, also a Child heiress, the principal partner. Sir Joshua's
son was raised to a peerage as Earl Tylney, and about 1715 employed a celebrated architect
of the day, Colin Campbell, to build a magnificent mansion. Wanstead was deemed on its completion
in many respects the most magnificent house in England. It was of Portland stone, two hundred
feet in length and seventy deep. The great hall was fifty-three by forty-five feet, the ball-room
seventy-five by twenty-seven. This abode was furnished in a style of the most lavish splendor,
and Mr. Wellesley-Pole's income was more than adequate to maintain it in befitting style. But
no income is adequate to meet the expenses of a gambler and spendthrift, and such was Mr. Wellesley-Pole.

Some of his wife's property was happily settled on her and her heirs, and could not be got
hold of by her rascally husband; but Wanstead, after being leased for some time to the duc
de Bourbon--who here received intelligence of the death of his unfortunate son, the duc d'Enghien--came
to the hammer. The sale of the effects in 1822 exceeded anything of the kind which had been
known in England up to that date. The catalogue consisted of four hundred quarto pages, published
in three parts, at five shillings each, and it is said that not less than twenty thousand copies
were sold. It is not a little remarkable that the contents of Fonthill Abbey (the celebrated
seat of the author of Vathek), which teemed with even greater riches, were sold almost at the
same time. Nor were the contents of the mansion only disposed of. The fabric itself, which
had cost three hundred and sixty thousand pounds, was sold for eight thousand pounds, it being
a condition of the sale that it should be razed and the materials removed within a definite
number of months.

Had Tylney-Long-Wellesley-Pole (for such was the polysyllabic name he bore after his marriage)
been only a spendthrift and a gambler, his case might not have seemed remarkable. But he showed
himself in every way a heartless scoundrel as regarded his wife and his children, who had to
seek legal protection against him. About a year after the sale of her splendid home his wife
died, and the event is thus spoken of in a leading journal of the time: "The premature death
of an amiable and accomplished lady born to large possessions, and against whom the voice of
calumny never so much as breathed a slander, calls, we think, for a passing comment, as illustrating
and furnishing, we trust, a lasting and useful lesson to the heartlessness of too many men
of the present day. With a fortune that made her a prize for princes, this amiable woman gave
her hand and heart to the man of her choice, and with them all that unbounded wealth could
bestow. What her fate has been all the world knows: what it ought to have been the world is
equally well aware. To her, riches have been worse than poverty; and her life seems to have
been scarified and her heart broken through the very means that should have cherished and maintained
her in the happiness and splendor which her fortune and disposition were alike qualified to
produce. Let her fate be a warning to all of her sex who, blessed with affluence, think the
buzzing throng which surrounds them have hearts, when in fact they have none; and if there
be such a feeling as remorse accessible in the quarter where it is most called for, let the
world witness, by a future life of contrition, something like atonement for the past."

So far, however, as the world could discover, the atonement never came. Lord Mornington, as
he became, actually found another woman to marry him: he ill-used her, and having sunk into
narrow circumstances, neglected to provide her with the barest necessaries, so that the applications
of the countess of Mornington to the London police magistrates for assistance became of frequent
occurrence. It may seem strange that the Wellesley family should not have stepped in to prevent
such a scandal. Probably they thought that the woman who in the teeth of his evil reputation
had chosen to marry him should take the consequences. He died in 1857. His son, whose life
his father's conduct had sadly embittered, did not long survive him, and bequeathed the remnant
of his estates, including Draycot, a large mansion (which had been strictly entailed) in Wiltshire,
to his cousin, Lord Cowley, then ambassador at Paris. His title passed to the duke of Wellington.

THE FATE OF DANGAN CASTLE.

Lord Cowley, on being created an earl, selected for his second title that of Viscount Dangan,
thus perpetuating the memory of the old seat of the Wellesleys in Ireland. It is a somewhat
remarkable circumstance that although no family in the United Kingdom has within the last century
acquired such fame and honors as the Wellesleys, they have long since ceased to own a rood
of ground in the country whence they derived the affluence and rank which were to the famous
sons of Garrett, earl of Mornington, the first stepping-stones to fame.

The Wellesleys are only Wellesleys--or Wesleys, as the name was formerly spelt--in the female
line. Richard Colley, son of Henry Colley, of Castle Carbery, county Cork, succeeded on the
23d of September, 1728, to the estates of his cousin, Garrett Wesley, Esq., of Dangan, county
Meath, assumed the name and arms of "Wesley," and was created baron of Mornington July 9, 1746.
He married, December 23, 1819, Elizabeth, eldest daughter of Doctor John Sale, M.P. for Carysfort,
and died January 31, 1758, when he was succeeded by his only son, Garrett, father of the duke
of Wellington, who was created in 1760 Viscount Wellesley and earl of Mornington.

In October, 1748, Mrs. Delany writes: "Last Monday we set out for Dangan, Lord Mornington's.
He is the same good-humored, agreeable man he was seventeen years ago. My godson, Master Wesley
[Wellington's father] is a most extraordinary boy: he was thirteen last month, is a very good
scholar, and whatever study he undertakes masters it most surprisingly. He began with the riddle
last year, and now plays everything at sight." [In after years Lord Mornington acquired considerable
distinction as a composer.]

"This place, Dangan Castle, is really magnificent: the old house that was burnt down is rebuilding.
They live at present in the offices: the garden (or rather improvements and parks, for it is
too extensive to be called a garden) consists of six hundred Irish acres, between eight and
nine hundred English. There is a gravel-walk fifty-two feet broad and six hundred yards long
from the house to the great lake. The lake contains twenty-six acres, is of an irregular shape,
with a fort built in all its forms. My godson is governor of the fort. He hoisted all his colors,
and was not a little mortified that I declined the compliment of being saluted from the fort
and ship. The ground, so far as you can see every way, is waving in hills and dales."

Dangan stands about seven miles from Trim and twenty from Dublin. The Marquis Wellesley (husband
of Miss Caton of Maryland), who succeeded his father as second earl of Mornington, sold it
to a Mr. Burroughs, who, after greatly improving it, let it to Mr. Roger O'Connor, a near relative
of the Chartist agitator of the name. Whilst in his possession the house and demesne were stripped
of everything that could be turned into money; the timber, which was remarkable both for quantity
and quality, was cut down; and the gardens were permitted to run to waste. At length the house--being
heavily insured--was found to be on fire, and was burnt before assistance could be obtained.
One part of the building, of which the walls were extraordinarily thick, is now inhabited by
a farmer who superintends the property.

The present duke of Wellington (whose wife, formerly well known as Lady Douro, is a daughter
of Lord Tweeddale, and sister of the wife of Sir Robert Peel) is childless. His only brother,
Lord Charles Wellesley, left two sons, but if these should die issueless the dukedom will be
extinct, and the Irish earldom of Mornington will pass to Lord Cowley.

INTERVIEWING CAPTAIN KIDD.

Mr. Editor: The following, which I cut from the New York Herald of July 17, 1699 (accidentally
in my possession), may interest some of your readers. I was not before aware that the Herald's
files went back so far, but it was a greater surprise to discover that interviewing flourished
at so early a date.

Yours, SARSFIELD YOUNG.

CAPTAIN KIDD!

THE PIRATE CHIEF IN A BOSTON JAIL!

BOUQUETS AND BAKED BEANS vs. PURITAN THEOLOGY!

CALUMNIATIONS OF THE PRESS!

DON'T CALL ME PET NAMES--WILLIAM vs. ROBERT!

ALL A MISTAKE ABOUT THAT CHISEL!

SARAH'S MUGS AND PORRINGERS!

"HOW IS MY FRIEND, COL. LIVINGSTONE?"

EAST INDIA RING vs. INNOCENCE!

CAN ADAMS AND CHOATE CLEAR HIM? etc. etc.

[From Herald Special Correspondent.]

BOSTON, 16th July, 1699.

Your correspondent arrived here last evening, and found (as already telegraphed) that the arrest
and imprisonment of Captain Kidd, the champion pirate of the world, continues to form the all-absorbing
topic of conversation. Little Boston has got a sensation at last, and is determined to keep
it. Merchants and brokers talk Kidd on 'Change. Groups at the hotels discuss the nautical hero.
Badly-executed pictures of him stare at you from the shop-windows. Cotton Mather, the great
gun of the clergy here, blazes away at this "child of iniquity" from the pulpit; and it is
understood that a prominent publishing-house has already arranged to bring out The Autobiography
of a Buccaneer. On dit, that certain parties are negotiating to have him appear next season
as a lecturer in case he isn't wanted on another platform.

The first paroxysm of excitement, which looked to nothing short of hanging him from the steeple
of the Old South Church, has given place to a conviction that the law had better be suffered
to take its course, inasmuch as the unfortunate captain will surely drift among the breakers
when he is tossed about on the sea of criminal jurisprudence.

By the politeness of the colonial authorities, your correspondent obtained a permit to visit
the noted son of Neptune at the Stone Prison. Sending in his card, he was at once invited into
the small but comfortable apartment where the "scourge of the seas" is confined.

Captain Kidd graciously extended his hand and bade your correspondent welcome. He is a short,
broad-shouldered, powerfully-built man, of perhaps forty-five or forty-seven years of age.
His hair, which is of dark chestnut and inclined to curl, was combed back from a medium forehead,
and his face was sun-burnt into a rich mahogany hue. His cold gray eyes were deep set under
thick brows that arched and met. His manner was courteous and dignified. He was dressed in
light gray trowsers of perfect cut, patent-leather boots and a red-and-black spotted shirt,
which displayed in its front a set of superb diamond studs. From under a Byron collar, parfaitement
starched, peeped the ends of a pale lilac scarf. A magnificent seal-ring decorated the third
finger of his left hand.

The day being excessively warm, his coat and vest had been laid aside. The room was plainly
furnished. The table was littered with charts and papers, while on a stand were flowers sent
to the prisoner by ladies of Boston.

With the instinct of a true gentleman, he proceeded to put on his coat and vest, when the following
conversation ensued:

Rep. "Pray, captain, keep your coat off."

Capt. K. "Thank you, if the same to you?"

Rep. "Quite the same, I assure you. My visit is informal." (Handing him a cigar.)

Capt. K. "Thanks: I take things coolly--waive ceremony. You know that's a habit I acquired
at sea. You are a reporter?"

Rep. "Yes, for the New York Herald. I call to ascertain your views of the situation. The public
are anxious to hear your defence; and, if proper, I would like to ask you a few questions."

Capt. K. "Certainly" (lighting his cigar). "You newspaper men haven't given me a fair show.
There's a heap of lying going on about me. They are hounding me--that's a fact. I've got the
evidence to prove that I'm an injured man. I have a clear conscience, that's one comfort."

Rep. "A great comfort, no doubt. May I ask, captain, what particular falsehood has gained currency?"

Capt. K. "Yes, sir. I will name one that is an unmitigated slander. They say that when I came
across Moore and corrected him with a bucket for his impertinence, he was grinding a chisel.
Now, sir, that is as false as ----!"

Rep. "Indeed?"

Capt. K. "Yes, sir, 'twas a screwdriver."

Rep. "That shall be corrected, captain. Anything else?"

Capt. K. "Yes, sir--a bigger lie still. There is a scurrilous broadside circulating all over
the country. Here it is." (He handed me a copy of verses printed in the Herald of last Tuesday.)
"Read that, if you please, sir: 'My name is Robert Kidd, as I sailed, as I sailed.' Now, sir,
that is a villainous falsehood."

Rep. "You didn't sail under that name, then, captain?"

Capt. K. "Never. Why, bless your innocent heart, my baptismal name is William. It is of a piece
with all their malignant lying, this persisting in calling me Robert."

Rep. "It is hard." (Pause.) "Pray, captain, permit me to ask if the story is true that Mrs.
Kidd's trunk was seized by the authorities, and kept with its contents of gold-dust and diamonds?"

Capt. K. "In part true, sir. A perfect outrage, sir. Mrs. Kidd came on from New York post-haste
when she heard that the Antonio had arrived, and no sooner had she set foot in Boston than
the authorities gobbled up her trunk, leaving her in a strange community with nothing but a
band-box. The public have exaggerated the contents. They were silver mugs, porringers and plate
generally for family use, that we had been years accumulating. They locked it up in the castle,
and--Poor Sarah! poor Sarah!" (Here the stout man buried his head in his hands and appeared
deeply affected. Your correspondent improved the opportunity to perfect his notes.)

Rep. (after a few minutes). "I am glad to assure you, Captain Kidd, that it will probably be
returned to her to-morrow."

Capt. K. (brightening up). "To-morrow? Well, that's good. It wellnigh broke Sarah's heart.
By the way, you are lately from New York, I suppose. How is my old friend, Colonel Livingstone?
Well, I hope?"

Rep. "I haven't the honor of his acquaintance, but I have no doubt he is well. New York men
usually are. He is a staunch friend of yours, captain?"

Capt. K. "Ay, that he is. He has always stood by me, ever since he got me that appointment
to command the 'Adventure galley.'"

Rep. "You have no doubt, captain, of your ability to substantiate your entire innocence of
these charges brought against you?"

Capt. K. "Not the slightest, not the slightest, sir. There was Captain Wright of the Quedah--you
remember him, I dare say: had command of that nigger crew--what did he say when I went aboard
his ship? Said he, 'Kidd, you remind me of the new-born babe.' I suppose I can't prove that,
for Wright, poor fellow! has been dropped into the sea, with a twenty-four-pound shot at his heels.

"But what if the jury does convict me? Can't I have a bill of exceptions? Can't I sue out an
injunction to stay proceedings? What did they let me walk the streets of Boston a whole week
for, if I was such a criminal as some of 'em pretend? I tell you what it is--this thing is
a put-up job. That ring of East India speculators is at the bottom of it. They just run Bellamont.
They know I stand in their way; but I'll be even with them yet. Mark my word, Mr. Reporter:
William Kidd is going to march down these streets head up, colors flying and the band playing
'Carry the news to Hiram.'"

Rep. "I hope so, captain. One word more. If not too bold, may I inquire about these stories
of your burying treasure on Gardner's Island?"

Capt. K. "True as gospel preaching! I buried doubloons all over that island--used to work moonlight
nights at it. You can't show me a square yard of soil there that isn't stuck full of shiners.
You see, it grew to be a perfect passion with me. I stopped on my way up Boston harbor here,
and planted about three millions of pounds sterling. I forget now which island it was. However,
I shall publish a complete guide to all these points, with diagrams and directions for getting
up stock companies, in the book I'm preparing." (Just then a card was brought in. Captain K.
nodded affirmatively to the attendant, and your correspondent rose to withdraw.) "I am sorry
not to talk with you longer, but a delegation of the ministry are just outside the door. They
propose to sit down and discuss with me the exceeding sinfulness of a greed of worldly gain,
especially when it runs into piracy.--My best compliments to you, sir. Good-morning."

Rep. "Good-morning, captain."

Your correspondent encountered six white-chokered gentlemen on their way to interview the great
nautical backslider. He is certainly the lion of the hour.

From what your correspondent has been able to gather it is probable that a few friends of the
captain will succeed in their efforts to secure Samuel Adams and a promising young lawyer named
Choate to conduct his defence. In this event his chances of a discharge from custody will prove
favorable. It may be that Bellamont and the council will conclude to send him over for trial
in the King's Bench.

Your correspondent inclines to the view that the distinguished marine plunderer can hardly
be held for piracy, but may be convicted of the murder of the gunner Moore. The story is here
that Kidd, with an iron-hooped bucket, not only finished up things for William Moore, but left
that unhappy man in his gore. As regards jurisdiction, the government will allege that the
awful deed was committed not many leagues from shore.

A DINNER EXCUSE.

Apologies for poor dinners are generally out of place. But when a lady has a forgetful husband,
who, without warning, brings home a dozen guests to sit down to a plain family dinner for three
or four, it is not in human nature to keep absolute silence. What to say, and how to say it,
form the problem. Mrs. Tucker, the wife of Judge Tucker of Williamsburg, solved this problem
most happily many years ago. She was the daughter or niece (I am uncertain which) of Sir Peyton
Skipwith, and celebrated for her beauty, wit, ease and grace of manner. Her temper and tact
were put to the proof one court-day, when the judge brought with him the accustomed half score
or more of lawyers, for whom not the slightest preparation had been made, the judge having
quite forgotten to remind his wife that it was court-day, and she herself, strange to tell,
having overlooked the fact.

The dinner was served with elegance, and Mrs. T. made herself very charming. Upon rising to
leave the guests to their wine she said: "Gentlemen, you have dined to-day with Judge Tucker:
promise me now that you will all dine to-morrow with me"

This was all her apology, whereupon the gentlemen swore that such a wife was beyond price.
The judge then explained the situation, and the next day there was a noble banquet.

Moral: Never worry a guest with apologies.

NOTES.

A Turkish paper gives an account of a curious forced emigration which has recently produced
great excitement on classic ground. On the European banks of the Hellespont stands the city
of Gallipoli, interesting as the first possession of the Turks in Europe in 1357; and nearly
opposite to it is Lamsaki, a village long renowned for the vineyards in its neighborhood, and
situated near the site of the celebrated Lampsacus of classic times. During the autumn the
authorities of Gallipoli came to the conclusion that there were in that town--as where are
there not?--too many owner-less dogs about; and instead of issuing death-warrants against these
vagrants, they took the extraordinary course of exporting them to their opposite neighbors
across the Hellespont, who were already plentifully provided with canine treasures. On the
arrival of these two thousand immigrants, who were very unruly on the passage, they started,
in quest of food it may be supposed, to the mountains, but not finding anything to suit their
palates, returned to the town. Here the tug of war commenced. The Lamsakian canines, on recognizing
the situation, turned out to a dog, and a frightful conflict, with terrible howlings and barkings,
ensued for four hours. At the end of that time the foreign foe was worsted, and, beating a
retreat, endeavored to allay the pangs of hunger by eating the grapes, and thus doing really
serious damage. The people then had to turn out: two hundred dogs were killed, and the rest
retreated, but of course only to return. The Djeridéi Havadis concludes the account by mildly
saying that the Lamsakians are much disgusted by the eccentric conduct of the Gallipoli magistrates,
who ought of course to have sent their canine emigrants to a desert island. But how thankful
would Philadelphians be if somebody, imitating the Gallipoli magistrates, would but deport
two thousand of the cats which make night-life hideous--to the New Jersey shore, say!

       *       *       *       *       *

The pie is almost an "institution" in America. A single New York bakery claims that it produces
nine hundred pies an hour from one of its ten capacious ovens, and a total of fifty thousand
pies daily, the year round, forcing the supply occasionally up to sixty-five thousand--probably
on Fourths of July or other festal occasions. Let the reader busy himself with imagining the
total production of pies by this and all other bakeries of the country during a twelve-month!
Nevertheless, these facilities would be inadequate to popular demand were the majority of our
countrymen of a stomach as unbounded as that of the Dundee laborer whom a Scotch journal commemorates.
This extraordinary person, having not long since eaten nine large twopenny pies at a Dundee
pie-shop within fourteen and a half minutes, announced his purpose to eat on the following
Monday twelve pies within twenty-five minutes; and in fact, when the delicacies were put before
him in the shape of a six-pound pile, fourteen inches high, he consumed half a dozen in five
minutes, the next three at the end of eleven minutes, and the last three in six minutes more,
having ended his repast eight minutes sooner than he had designed--possibly owing to the pangs
of hunger, since he expressed a willingness to occupy the spare moments with devouring another
half dozen pies.

With this item of news in fresh remembrance we chanced to read in a very old English newspaper
the supper eaten, many years ago, by Mr. Oakley of Stanton, Derbyshire--a repast which makes
the Scotchman's, just recorded, rather frugal by comparison. His first dish, says the report,
was two quarts of milk, thirty eggs, half a pound of butter, half a pound of sugar, three penny
loaves, a quantity of ginger and nutmeg and an ounce of mustard, all boiled together; his second
course was "apiece of cheese and a pound of bread to it;" the third was half a pound of bacon,
a penny loaf and a quart of ale, followed by three halfpennies' worth of ginger-bread and a
pint of ale; his fourth dish was a custard of two pounds, an ounce of mustard, some black pepper,
a pint of milk and three pints of ale to it. This banquet he finished in an hour, and then
ungratefully complained of not having had enough; so, after running three hundred yards by
way of appetizer, he sat down with the rest of the company, who had witnessed his prowess,
and drank pretty freely. Yet even this exploit is hardly equal to the marvel in digestion reported
in the same ancient newspaper of a Truro porter, who, for a bet of five shillings, ate two
pairs of worsted stockings fried in train oil, and half a pound of yellow soap into the bargain.
The losers of this wager might have been more cautious had they known that the same atrocious
glutton once undertook to eat as much tripe as would make himself a jacket with sleeves, and
was accordingly measured by a tailor, who regularly cut out the materials, when, to general
surprise, the voracious fellow ate up the whole in twenty minutes. Compared with these performances
some of the current prodigies of gormandism which the papers so often report are surely as
trifling in amount as they are tame and uninventive in the character of their details.

       *       *       *       *       *

The strange accident of Albertacce brought to general notice an obscure Corsican custom which
singularly contrasts with the ordinary funeral ceremonies of Christendom. The vocero, as this
rite is styled, is palpably an inheritance from the classical conquerors of the island, now
preserved only in some of the interior villages. When the head of a family dies, the body,
after being robed in its handsomest garments, is laid in state on a table in the largest room,
surrounded with lights. Then, five or six hours before the burial, all the women of the village
and the district, clothed in black and with bare heads, assemble around the corpse, the mother
and sisters of the dead at the feet, the nearest relations next, and so on. When this assemblage
is formed the most renowned poetesses or singers of their number, with hair disheveled and
bleeding faces, and a white handkerchief waving in the hand, chant in verse the history, virtues
and destiny of the dead. The mournful cadence, the profuse weeping and the dramatic gestures
of the ceremony are striking. The chief mourner amid her wailing sometimes raises the head
or the arm of the corpse, and plucks out her own hair or freshly tears at her face till the
blood pours again from the wounded skin, while the half-stifled sobbing of the whole company
adds to the effect. When at length the priest arrives, all is hushed, but the women follow
the corpse in procession to the church, where the ceremony sometimes lasts several hours. Such,
at least, is the account of the vocero given by a correspondent of the XIX'e Siècle, who visited
the scene of the Albertacce accident, where a roomful of celebrants were suddenly precipitated
into the cellar by the giving way of the floor. The mere mention of the accident came by telegraph,
but it appears that twenty dead and fourteen mangled women were taken from the wreck of the
house where they had been singing their mournful vocero.

       *       *       *       *       *

Unless the Paris postmen are more patient than those of Madrid (who were on strike a few weeks
since), their temper must be ruffled by the transformations now going on in the names of streets.
In France, and especially in Paris, each overthrow of a dynasty produces a corresponding revolution
in the city directory, for all unpopular names must be effaced, and the streets which bore
them must be rebaptized in accordance with the political favorites of the hour. Decrees have
already turned the Avenue de l'Empereur into the Avenue des Lacs; the Avenue Napoléon into
the Avenue de l'Opéra; the Place Napoléon into the Place de l'Opéra; the Avenue de l'Impératrice
into the Avenue du Bois de Boulogne; the Boulevard Voltaire into the Boulevard de Belfort;
the Rue Magnan into the Rue d'Angoulême-Saint-Honoré (its old name); the Rue Billault into
the Rue de l'Oratoire-du-Roule, also its old appellation; while there has been a general effacing
of those names which the Communists set up upon the streets and avenues during their brief
lease of power. Scores of other old names of streets are already changed or are in train of
alteration; but the preceding will suffice for examples. Now, when one reflects that at the
overthrow of Charles X., and again at the overthrow of Louis Philippe, and again at the overthrow
of the Second Republic, and again at the overthrow of the Second Empire, and again at the overthrow
of the Commune, these alterations wept on, it is seen that the puzzle offered to Paris people
in general, and to Paris postmen in particular, must be anything but amusing. Should the Third
Republic perish to-morrow, a new christening of streets would have to be made; but the event
only would determine whether the new names should celebrate Imperialism, or Communism, or Bourbonism,
or Orleanism, or each in its turn. It is rather strange that, with such an experience, Paris
should not take refuge in that tame but enduring system of street nomenclature which is based
on the letters of the alphabet and the ordinal numbers.

       *       *       *       *       *

An English magazine not long since described some of the curious theories and superstitions
which prevail among devotees of the lottery and the gaming-table, regarding "lucky numbers."
There are traditionally fortunate and unfortunate combinations, and there are also newer favorites,
based very often on figures connected with the chronology of famous men. The career of Napoleon
III. would seem to be considered by gamblers a specially successful one, for since his death
they have been betting furiously on all numbers supposed to bear a relation to sundry pivotal
events of his life. In Vienna, in Milan, in Rome, the newspapers notice this universal rage
among regular patrons of the lottery for staking their fortunes on Napoleonic numbers; and,
what is also curious, these numbers have in several instances turned out lucky. Thus, in a
late Vienna paper we read that "the death of the Man of Sedan has brought good luck to the
old women of this city who give themselves up with unquenchable passion to the lottery." At
the last drawing, as the paper goes on to say, the numbers most eagerly seized upon were 3,
for Napoleon III.; 65, for his age; 20, for his birthday, it falling on the twentieth of the
month; 90, as the highest number in the lottery, hence interpreted to signify "emperor;" and
finally 52, the year of his accession to the throne. To the joy of all the old lottery-gossips,
the luck fell on these numbers, 3, 20, and 90. At Rome the death of Napoleon. III. has furnished
new combinations for all the devotees of the lottery. At Milan the same infatuated class have
"pointed a moral" of their own from the event--a moral quite different from the one extracted
by sermonizers. They have been playing heavily on number 20 (a gold Napoleon being worth twenty
francs), and on number 13, which latter, as the proverbially unlucky one, is interpreted to
mean the ex-emperor's death. On the first drawing after his death these two numbers proved
to be the lucky ones of the lottery, and it was then found that there had been a great number
of winners.

       *       *       *       *       *

Is this present year, 1873, to be, like some famous ones in history, specially fatal to crowned
heads, and to heads that have once been crowned? During the whole twelve months of 1872 the
only European sovereign who died was Charles XV. of Sweden, while none suffered irremediable
misfortune; and in European royal families the only two losses by death were Archduke Albrecht
and the duke of Guise. But within the first six weeks of 1873 no less than three persons died
who had at some time worn imperial crowns, and one monarch resigned his sceptre. First died
Napoleon III., on the 9th of January. Then, on the 25th, at Lisbon, died the dowager-empress
Amelia, daughter of Prince Eugene, wife of Pedro I. of Brazil, and stepmother of the present
emperor, Pedro II. On February 8 the empress Caroline Augusta, widow of Francis I. of Austria,
and grandmother of the reigning emperor, died at Vienna. In Spain the abdication of Amadeo
is an incident to be mentioned in a year opening so ominously to crowned and discrowned heads.

LITERATURE OF THE DAY. New York: Harper & Brothers.

Mr. Hazard, who has already obliged us with one of the best accounts of Cuba extant in modern
literature, now does a similar service for Santo Domingo, which he declares to be much more
highly favored by Nature, and which he examined with the United States commission of 1871.
This book has the advantage of being prepared within reach of the British Museum, whose stores
of Americo-Spanish authorities have enabled him to write up with much fullness the historical
sketch which occupies a third of his space. This is a fair, faithful and skillful condensation,
and the most readable narrative we have seen of poor Dominica's tale of revolutions and wrongs.
The personal portion begins with the author's arrival at the Salt Keys and Puerto Plata, and
follows the steps of the commissioners, with a great many anecdotes and a sprinkling of artistic
sketches, to Samana and Santo Domingo City; thence overland to the great inland tobacco-mart
of Santiago; and so back to Puerto Plata and Monte Christo, where the commission ceased its
labors, being discouraged by the Haytians from an exploration within their domain; while Mr.
Hazard, resuming his capacity of private citizen, took his life in his hand and ventured into
the proud Mumbo-Jumbo republic. It is here that the really lively part of the story commences,
and the author becomes the hero of quite a tragedy of errors. At the first Haytian port, Dauphin
Bay, he meets the port-captain who cannot read his passport, the port-general who bows and
sends him to the chef de police, the chef who asks for half a dollar without countersigning
the document, and lets the pilgrim go on in quest of the American consul. The only hotel is
closed and "busted:" the consul indicates a billiard-room, whose proprietor feeds the stranger,
informing him at the same time that the authorities take him for a United States commissioner,
and have doubled the guards. The next visit is to a banker, who plays him a curious practical
joke. Demanding Haytian bank-notes for a few hundred dollars on a letter of credit, the tourist,
after a time of waiting, sees the street on which the banker lives completely blocked with
donkey-carts, drays, mules, horses with panniers and carts drawn by bullocks. A negro drayman
informs him that "the American commissioner, having come over-night from Monte Christo, is
drawing a draft in Haytian specie, and that the carts are to load up with it." The banker,
being consulted, offers to store the currency cheap in a warehouse, but advises as a friend
that the draft be reduced, the bullocks sent away, and that the traveler take a beer. "I took
the beer," says Mr. Hazard. A dollar in gold means just four hundred dollars in Haytian paper:
a cocktail cost the traveler "thirty dollars," and other things in proportion. These beginnings
of make-believe pomposity are followed up by the strangest revelations wherever the adventurer
sets his foot. Going from Cape Haytien to the citadel and "Sans-Souci" palace of Christophe,
the traveler is charged "two thousand dollars" by the drunken negro guide, and "a dollar" by
the sable sentry of whom he happens to ask a question. The town of Cape Haytien he finds surrounded
by the rotting bodies of dead animals; the ruins of fine old country-seats are occupied by
filthy black squatters; the new houses going up are built by the process of throwing single
bricks one after the other from the ground to the bricklayer. Squalor and braggadocio he finds
everywhere. The general who has given him a permit to inspect Christophe's stronghold sends
a messenger secretly in advance with instructions reversing his order: the commandant refuses
lodgings to "the American who has come to take the fort." Some friends of the consul who had
received a general invitation to accompany the excursion had previously backed out, because
the stranger was an American, a reputed commissioner, and very unsafe company. Mr. Hazard could
only obtain permission to swing his hammock in the house of a negress; a citizen who pointed
him out to the others made the signs of throat-cutting; and he left behind him the filibustering
reputation of the American who came to take the citadel. Naturally disgusted by this time,
the author renounced his intention of further land-traveling, and passed in a steamer around
the western end of the island to Port-au-Prince. Here he was delighted with the entertainment
of our present minister to Hayti, Mr. Bassett, a Philadelphia quadroon of uncommon qualities
and collegiate education. "Some of my most delightful hours," says the writer, "were spent
enjoying the kind hospitalities of Mr. Bassett and his lady." He represents the minister as
living in a palace built for the emperor Soulouque, and playing a part in the revolutionary
conflicts of the island similar to that of Minister Washburne in revolutionary Paris. The brave
conduct of Mr. Bassett during the brief presidency of the unhappy Salnave deserves mention.
About three thousand humble blacks, frightened by the rebellion of the "aristocracy," fled
to the protection of our flag, and the minister, though shot at in the streets and without
the support of a single man-of-war, saved and fed them all. It seems to be not much to its
credit that our nation, though very tender of Hayti when the question of Dominican annexation
is raised, has never reimbursed its ambassador for this drain on his private purse for the
succor of Haytian lives. With Port-au-Prince, where the writer awaited his steamer's departure
for the United States, the journey terminates. The traveler's evident disgust with almost every
manifestation of Haytian attempts at self-government is balanced by his rapture with the natural
features of the other end of the island. He writes as an ardent annexationist--not so much
from the humanitarian view of President White and Dr. Howe, as from the belief that Santo Domingo,
if once made our territory, would soon enrich our treasury from its commerce and its uncommon
adaptability as a watering-place. We have spoken of this book as very thorough. It is so in
every respect--historical, pictorial and narrative. The list of books pertaining to the subject
occupies alone eight pages of small print: as the author, however, evidently wishes this list
to be approximately complete, and as he seems to be aware of but few books except those in
the British Museum, we will oblige him, as possibly useful for a future edition, with the titles
of some which he does not give: one of these especially, Dr. Brown's History and Present Condition
of St. Domingo, we are surprised he does not include, as it is one of the most popular and
useful books on the topic, and a manual of which we imagined every commissioner to have got
a chapter by heart daily when on the way to Samana:

    Las Casas, "Destruccion de las Indias," Sevilla, 1552;
    Desportes, "Histoire des Maladies de Saint Domingue," Paris,
    1770, 3 vols.; Petit, "Droit Publique des Colonies Françaises"
    (containing the "Black Code"), Paris, 1777; Nicolson,
    "Histoire Naturelle de Saint Domingue," Paris, 1776; Valverde,
    "Idea del Valor de la Isla Española," Madrid, 1785; Puységur,
    "Navigation aux Côtes de St. Domingue," Paris, 1787;
    D'Auberteuil, "Considérations sur la Colonie, etc.," 1776;
    Coulon, "Troubles en Saint Domingue," 1798; Malouet, fourth
    volume of his "Colonial History," 1802; Dubroca, "Toussaint
    l'Ouverture," 1802; Tonnerre, "Mémoires, Histoire d'Haïti,"
    Port-au-Prince, 1804; Laujon and Montpenay, "Précis," 1805,
    1811, 1814 and 1819; Bercy, "De St. Domingue," Paris, 1814;
    Hérard Dumesle, "Voyage," Port-au-Prince, 1824; Clausson,
    "Révolution de Saint Domingue," 1819; Malo, "Histoire
    d'Haïti," Paris, 1825; Wallez, "Biography of General Boyer,"
    1826; Macaulay, "Abolition d'Esclavage," 1835; J. Brown,
    M.D., "History and Present Condition of Saint Domingo," 1837;
    Chaucheprat, "Le Routier des Antilles," 1843; Schoelcher,
    "Résultats de l'émancipation anglaise," 1843; Emile Nau,
    "Histoire des Caciques d'Haïti," 1855; Saint-Amand, "Histoire
    des Révolutions d'Haïti," Paris, 1860; Pradine (ex-minister to
    England), "Digest of Laws of Hayti," Paris, 1860.

    Thorvaldsen: his Life and Works. From the French of Eugene
    Plon, by I.M. Luyster. Boston: Roberts Brothers.

Thorwaldsen's life lasted from 1770 to 1844, and was very industrious. He was the son of a
Copenhagen ship-carver, and received all his bent from the study of the antique in Italy. The
works he left are almost innumerable, and some of them will have lasting reputation. The finest
perhaps is his medallion of Night, "launched with infinite lightness into space, carrying in
her arms her two children, Sleep and Death." This masterpiece is said to have been conceived
during a sleepless night in 1815, and modeled in one day. His Lion at Lucerne, made to commemorate
the Swiss guards at Paris who fell in defending the Tuileries, August 10, 1792, is known to
every tourist: it is altogether conventional, but it is not commonplace. "Never having seen
a live lion," says his biographer, "he went to antique statues for inspiration:" he thus, at
two or three removes from Nature, secured a grand, monumental conception, fully charged with
human intelligence. The colossi of Christ and his Twelve, now to be seen with the artist's
other works at Copenhagen, and formerly exhibited at the World's Fair in New York, are imposing
and classical, while they perhaps show the absence of the Christian idea noted in his other
clerical subjects. Thorvaldsen, born a Lutheran, was a spectator in Rome of bigotry and skepticism,
and took refuge in artistic impartiality. A friend once observing that his want of religious
faith must make it difficult to express Christian ideas in his works, "If I were altogether
an unbeliever," he replied, "why should that give me any trouble? Have I not represented pagan
divinities?--still, I don't believe in them." The life of this artist was one of consummate
worldly success; the kings of Bavaria and Denmark were the personal friends of the unlettered
son of the ship-carver, as were Horace Vernet, Walter Scott, Andersen, and Mendelssohn; his
casket of decorations was the amusement of his lady visitors; and his invitations were so constant
that he could not always remember the name of his host: he was at once parsimonious and charitable,
cheerful and melancholy. His artistic influence was very strong, exhibiting itself in the style
of Tenerani, Galli, Rauch, Drake and Bissen. The life of him by Plon is methodical and complete,
and the American version is illustrated by thirty-five careful engravings printed in Paris
and gummed upon the sheets.

    Expiation. By Mrs. Julia C.R. Dorr, author of "Sibyl
    Huntington," etc. Philadelphia: J.B. Lippincott & Co.

Expiation is an interesting American story, with a background of lonely woods that protect
the rustic privacy of Altona, and a list of characters that combine city culture and country
eccentricity. Patsy, the grim and self-sacrificing "help," who observes drily of a statue representing
Eve with the apple that "some things is decent and some things ain't," is the best delineation
in it, but the style is always lively, always feminine and pure, and the conception of the
high-bred, aristocratic family, come to bury their mistakes and miseries in a forest seclusion,
would have been thought worthy of being worked up by Emily Bronté. The catastrophe, where a
dumb nun turns out to be a lost wife given over to the undertakers in a state of catalepsy,
is perhaps not quite new, but it is striking and vigorously told, and her union at last with
her husband's sons and the girlish bride of one of them is very touching. The novel is full
of local American color, and entices the attention from the reader's first plunge to the end.

    Wanderings in Spain. By Augustus J.C. Hare, author of
    "Memorials of a Quiet Life," "Walks in Rome," etc. London:
    Strahan & Co.; New York: Dodd & Mead.

This companionable book tells you how to travel over the Spanish Peninsula by means of a slight
knowledge of the Castilian tongue, a bold infidelity to Murray's Guide, a cake of soap and
some Liebig's broth, and a habit of universal politeness. "Pardon me, my sister," said the
author to a beggar-woman at Barcelona: "does not your worship see that I am drawing?" "Ah,
Dios!" she answered, "blind that I was! worm that I am! So your worship draws? And I--I too
am a lover of the arts." On the other hand, a stiff-necked Englishman traveling from Seville
to Xeres sent his driver to dine in the kitchen of an inn on the road. The driver, who in his
heart thought that he would have been doing great honor to a heretic by sitting at the same
table with him, concealed his indignation at the time, but in the middle of the road, three
or four leagues from Xeres, in a horrible desert full of bogs and brambles, pushed the Englishman
out of the carriage, and cried out as he whipped on his horse, "My lord, you did not find me
worthy to sit at your table; and I, Don José Balbino Bustamente y Orozco, find you too bad
company to occupy a seat in my carriage. Good-night!" Another story, of time-honored repetition,
is here restored to what may possibly have been its true parentage. A gypsy, on his knees to
his priest, is tempted by the father's snuffbox and steals it. "Father," he says immediately,
"I have one more confession: I accuse myself of stealing a snuffbox." "Then, my son, you must
certainly restore it." "Will you have it yourself, my father?" "I? certainly not," answered
the confessor. "The fact is," proceeded the gypsy, "that I have offered it to the owner, and
he has refused it." "Then you can keep it with a good conscience," answered the father. Such
are the glimpses of Spanish character. We could easily bear to have more of them; but the author,
accompanied with ladies, and an antiquarian by habit and nature, gives more sketches of ruins,
and of landscapes which are usually found "hideous," than of the infinite whims of national
manners. His contempt for Spanish landscape appears to us to amount to a disease: he scorns
honest Murray for describing Valencia's mud huts as "pearls set in emeralds," and says that
O'Shea's eulogy of her as "the sultana of Mediterranean cities" is a glowing picture of what
is dismal enough in reality. In fact, we are afraid that Mr. Hare has not exactly the artist's
eye, and cannot easily admire a scene in which he is not physically comfortable. But he has
rich and heart-warm descriptions of the Alhambra, the Escorial, and the ruins of Poblet near
Tarragona, where an order of patrician monks lived in incredible luxury until a time within
present memory, when they were scattered by a tumult and their sculptured home crushed into
dry and haggard ruin. This book cannot compare with his Walks in Rome, which was the careful
record of a familiar and a resident; but it is the result of a very lively curiosity and the
record of a mind evidently stored with history and romance. Excepting Colonel Hay's inimitable
Castilian Days, it is the best recent book about the country which it skims over.

    Marie Derville: A Story of a French Boarding-school. From
    the French of Madame Guizot de Witt, by Mary G. Wells.
    Philadelphia: J.B. Lippincott & Co.

French fiction when playing off innocence or when intended for uncontaminated ears attains
a blank intensity of virtue that our own literature cannot hope to rival. The French "juvenile"
still guards that beauteous ignorance of slang or of other small vice which the American schoolboy
regards as poverty of resource or incapacity, and which he has put off with his frocks and
his Parent's Assistant and his Sanford and Merton. But Marie Derville, when its accent of Berquin
is allowed for, is a varied and interesting tale, affording many a glimpse into that country
guarded about with such jealous walls--middle-class childhood in France. Marie is the child
of a sea-captain who goes to China, disappears for many years, and comes back at last, after
a narrow escape from massacre, saying, "How strange it was to find myself on the eve of becoming
a martyr--to die for the Christian religion when one is so poor a Christian as I!" His wife
and two or three of Marie's grandparents meantime unite to conduct a boarding-school on the
sea-shore, the history of which enterprise forms the bulk of the tale. Here the American reader
learns with surprise that the French little girl, who is never actually seen otherwise than
perfect and doll-like, is really subject in private to a few of the faults common to Miss Edgeworth's
heroines, such as selfishness, gluttony and laziness. But the story of the school is on the
whole sunshiny and prosperous, and Marie Derville's young readers will follow with delight
the career of these prim little beings, so much more governed than themselves, as they go picnicking
on the sea-beach for mussels, make flannels for the cholera-patients of a fishing village,
or learn to recite the fable of "The Country Rat" without making it all one word in their hurry.
The story is very healthy and happy, and the translation excellent.

BOOKS RECEIVED.

The Teacher's Companion to the American Drawing-slates and Cards. With Cards. By Walter Smith,
Art Master, South Kensington, London, State Director of Art Education in Massachusetts. Boston:
Noyes, Holmes & Co.

Keel and Saddle: A Retrospect of Forty Years of Military and Naval Service. By Joseph W. Revere.
Boston: James R. Osgood & Co.

Helps over Hard Places. For Boys. Second series. By Lynde Palmer. Illustrated. Troy, N.Y.:
H.B. Nims & Co.

Cyclopedia of the Best Thoughts of Charles Dickens. By F.C. DeFontaine. Nos. 2-5. New York:
E.J. Hale & Son.

Liza: A Russian Novel. By Ivan S. Turgénieff. Translated by W.R.S. Ralston. New York: Holt
& Williams.

The Witch of Nemi, and other Poems. By Edward Brennan. London: Longmans, Green & Co.

The First Differential Coefficient. By John Newton Lyle, A.M. St. Louis: Review Steam Press.

A Lonely Life. By J.A. St. John Blythe. Philadelphia: T.B. Peterson & Brothers.

Life of Major-General Meade. Philadelphia: T.B. Peterson & Brothers.

Sunshine and Shadows in Kattern's Life. Boston: Henry Hoyt.