

2.3  ACTIVITIES AFTER 16 JULY 1945

On 17, 18, and 19 July, all personnel and visitors had to receive permission to approach ground
zero from the "Going-in Board."  On these three days, 21 groups were authorized to go beyond
the Broadway roadblocks.  Most of those who sought this authorization were scientists and military
support personnel whose job required that they work near ground zero.  Except for a group of
two military men and three civilians who went to ground zero on 16 and 17 July and a group
of two civilians who approached as close as 90 meters on 18 July, the reentry personnel came
no closer than 180 meters to ground zero.  Of these personnel, the individual who received
the highest exposure during the three days was an Army sergeant who received 15 roentgens.
During the same period, two civilians received 10 roentgens and 7.5 roentgens, respectively.
All other personnel received exposures of 5 roentgens or less (1; 3).

After the "Going-In Board" was disbanded on 19 July, permission to enter the ground zero area
had to be obtained from Dr. Bainbridge or one of his deputies.  Many scientists entered the
ground zero area after 19 July to retrieve instruments or to perform experiments.  The population
of the TRINITY test site was diminishing, however, as the emphasis shifted to preparing the
devices that were to be dropped on Japan (1).

On 23 July, a week after the shot, chain barricades with prominent signs warning against trespassing
were placed 910 meters north, south, and west of ground zero.  These barricades were supplemented
with two concentric circles of red flags 1,830 and 2,740 meters from ground zero.  Except during
bad weather, the entire ground zero area was visible from the roadblocks.  No unauthorized
person was ever detected entering the ground zero area (1).

On 10 August, the Broadway roadblocks were removed, and mounted military policemen began patrolling
around ground zero at a distance of 730 meters.  Each guard was assigned to a daily six-hour
shift for a period of two weeks; in the third week, the guard was assigned tasks away from
the ground zero area.  The mounted guards and their horses wore film badges.  No exposure greater
than 0.1 roentgen was registered.  On 1 September, the mounted patrol moved to a distance of
460 meters from ground zero, just outside a fence installed a week earlier to seal off the
area.  The same rotating patrol schedule was used.  The guards' film badge readings showed
an average daily exposure of 0.02 roentgens.  The mounted patrol at the fence continued until
early 1947 (1).

Between 20 July 1945 and 21 November 1945, 67 groups entered the ground zero area.  Most of
these parties entered in the month after shot-day.  These were the scientists and technicians
conducting experiments or retrieving data.  By the beginning of September, most of those who
entered the ground zero area were invited guests (1).

