 Now if we were to catch you young, good subscriber
or contributor, yourself, and put you into a cage to crack nuts and pull ugly faces, although
you might, from continued practice, do both to perfection, at a shilling a-head for grown-up
ladies and gentlemen, and sixpence for children and servants, and even at a lower rate after
the collection had been some weeks in town, would you not think it exceedingly hard to be judged
of in that one of your predicaments, not only individually, but nationally--that is, not only
as Ben Hoppus, your own name, but as John Bull, the name of the people of which you are an
incarcerated specimen? You would keep incessantly crying out against this with angry vociferation,
as a most unwarrantable and unjust Test and Corporation Act. And, no doubt, were an Ourang-outang
to see you in such a situation, he would not only form a most mean opinion of you as an individual,
but go away with a most false impression of the whole human race. Blackwood's Magazine.

       *       *       *       *       *

SONNET WRITTEN IN THE SPRING.

How heavenly o'er my frame steals the life-breath Of beautiful Spring! who with her amorous
gales Kissing the violets, each stray sweet exhales Of May-thorn, and the wild flower on the
heath. I love thee, virgin daughter of the year! Yet, ah! not cups,--dyed like the dawn, impart
Their elves' dew-nectar to a fainting heart!-- Ye birds! whose liquid warblings far and near
Make music to the green turf-board of swains; To me, your light lays tell of April joy,-- Of
pleasures--idle, as a long-loved toy; And while my heart in unison complains, Tears like of
balm-tree flow in trickling wave, And white forms strew with flowers a maid's untimely grave!
New Monthly Mag.

       *       *       *       *       *

THE KING OF ARRAGON'S LAMENT FOR HIS BROTHER.[1]

"If I could see him, it were well with me!" Coleridge's Wallenstein.

There were lights and sounds of revelling in the vanquished city's halls, As by night the feast
of victory was held within its walls; And the conquerors filled the wine-cup high, after years
of bright blood shed: But their Lord, the King of Arragon, 'midst the triumph, wailed the dead.

He looked down from the fortress won, on the tents and towers below, The moon-lit sea, the
torch-lit streets--and a gloom came o'er his brow: The voice of thousands floated up, with
the horn and cymbals' tone; But his heart, 'midst that proud music, felt more utterly alone.
And he cried, "Thou art mine, fair city! thou city of the sea! But, oh! what portion of delight
is mine at last in thee? --I am lonely 'midst thy palaces, while the glad waves past them roll,
And the soft breath of thine orange-bowers is mournful to my soul.

"My brother! oh! my brother! thou art gone, the true and brave, And the haughty joy of victory
hath died upon thy grave: There are many round my throne to stand, and to march where I lead
on; There was one to love me in the world--my brother! thou art gone!

"I see the festive lights around--o'er a dull sad world they shine; I hear the voice of victory--my
Pedro where is thine? The only voice in whose kind tone my spirit found reply-- Oh! brother!
I have bought too dear this hollow pageantry!

"I have hosts, and gallant fleets, to spread my glory and my sway, And chiefs to lead them
fearlessly--my friend hath passed away! For the kindly look, the word of cheer, my heart may
thirst in vain, And the face that was as light to mine--it cannot come again!

"I have made thy blood, thy faithful blood, the offering for a crown; With love, which earth
bestows not twice, I have purchased cold renown: How often will my weary heart 'midst the sounds
of triumph die, When I think of thee, my brother! thou flower of chivalry!

"I am lonely--I am lonely! this rest is ev'n as death! Let me hear again the ringing spears,
and the battle-trumpet's breath; Let me see the fiery charger's foam, and the royal banner
wave-- But where art thou, my brother?--where?--in thy low and early grave!"

And louder swelled the songs of joy through that victorious night, And faster flowed the red
wine forth, by the stars and torches light; But low and deep, amidst the mirth, was heard the
conqueror's moan-- "My brother! oh! my brother! best and bravest! thou art gone!"

Mrs. Hemans.--Monthly Magazine.

       *       *       *       *       *

A SUMMER TOUR.

If called upon to propose any summer's journey for a young English traveller, (and it is a
call often made with reference to continental tours,) we might reasonably suggest the coasts
of Great Britain, as affording every kind of various interest, which can by possibility be
desired. Such a scheme would include the ports and vast commercial establishments of Liverpool,
Bristol, Greenock, Leith, Newcastle, and Hull; the great naval stations of Plymouth, Portsmouth,
Chatham, and Milford; the magnificent estuaries of the Clyde and Forth, and of the Bristol
Channel, not surpassed by any in Europe; the wild and romantic coasts of the Hebrides and Western
Highlands; the bold shore of North Wales; the Menai, Conway, and Sunderland bridges; the gigantic
works of the Caledonian Canal and Plymouth Breakwater; and numerous other objects, which it
is beyond our purpose and power to enumerate. It cannot be surely too much to advise, that
Englishmen, who have only slightly and partially seen these things, should subtract something
from the length or frequency of their continental journeys, and give the time so gained to
a survey of their own country's wonders of nature and art.

To the agriculturist, and to the lover of rural scenery, England offers much that is remarkable.
The rich alluvial plains of continents may throw out a more profuse exuberance and succession
of crops; but we doubt whether agriculture, as an art, has anywhere (except in Flanders and
Tuscany alone) reached the same perfection as in the less fertile soils of the Lothians, Northumberland,
and Norfolk. Still more peculiar is the rural scenery of England, in the various and beautiful
landscape it affords--in the undulating surface--the greenness of the enclosures--the hamlets
and country churches--and the farm houses and cottages dispersed over the face of the country,
instead of being congregated into villages, as in France and Italy. We might select Devonshire,
Somersetshire, Herefordshire, and others of the midland counties, as pre-eminent in this character
of beauty, which, however, is too familiar to our daily observation to make it needful to expatiate
upon it.

Nor will our limits allow us to dwell upon that bolder form of natural scenery which we possess
in the Highlands of Scotland, in Wales, Cumberland, and Derbyshire, and which entitles us to
speak of this island as rich in landscape of the higher class. In the scale of objects, it
is true that no comparison can exist between the mountain scenery of Britain, and that of many
parts of the continent of Europe. But it must be remembered, that magnitude is not essential
to beauty; and that even sublimity is not always to be measured by yards and feet. A mountain
may be loftier, or a lake longer and wider, without any gain to that picturesque effect, which
mainly depends on form, combination, and colouring. Still we do not mean to claim in these
points any sort of equality with the Alps, Apennines, or Pyrenees; or to do more than assert
that, with the exception of these, the more magnificent memorials of nature's workings on the
globe, our own country possesses as large a proportion of fine scenery as any part of the continent
of Europe.--Q. Rev.

       *       *       *       *       *

Notes of a Reader

       *       *       *       *       *

HERODOTUS.

