This brought matters to a head. The nationalists, stigmatizing the Rowlatt law as the "Black
Cobra Act," were unmeasured in their condemnation. The extremists engineered a campaign of
militant protest and decreed the date of the bill's enactment, April 6, 1919, as a national
"Humiliation Day." On that day monster mass-meetings were held, at which nationalist orators
made seditious speeches and inflamed the passions of the multitude. "Humiliation Day" was in
fact the beginning of the worst wave of unrest since the mutiny. For the next three months
a veritable epidemic of rioting and terrorism swept India, particularly the northern provinces.
Officials were assassinated, English civilians were murdered, and there was wholesale destruction
of property. At some moments it looked as though India were on the verge of revolution and anarchy.

However, the government stood firm. Violence was countered with stern repression. Riotous mobs
were mowed down wholesale by rifle and machine-gun fire or were scattered by bombs dropped
from low-flying aeroplanes. The most noted of these occurrences was the so-called "Amritsar
Massacre," where British troops fired into a seditious mass-meeting, killing 500 and wounding
1500 persons. In the end the government mastered the situation. Order was restored, the seditious
leaders were swept into custody, and the revolutionary agitation was once more driven underground.
The enactment of the Montagu-Chelmsford reform bill by the British Parliament toward the close
of the year did much to relax the tension and assuage discontent, though the situation of India
was still far from normal. The deplorable events of the earlier part of 1919 had roused animosities
which were by no means allayed. The revolutionary elements, though driven underground, were
more bitter and uncompromising than ever, while opponents of home rule were confirmed in their
conviction that India could not be trusted and that any relaxation of autocracy must spell anarchy.

This was obviously not the best mental atmosphere in which to apply the compromises of the
Montagu-Chelmsford reforms. In fact, the extremists were determined that they should not be
given a fair trial, regarding the reforms as a snare which must be avoided at all costs. Recognizing
that armed rebellion was still impossible, at least for the present, the extremists evolved
the idea known as "non-co-operation." This was, in fact, a gigantic boycott of everything British.
Not merely were the new voters urged to stay away from the polls and thus elect no members
to the proposed legislative bodies, but lawyers and litigants were to avoid the courts, taxpayers
refuse to pay imposts, workmen to go on strike, shopkeepers to refuse to buy or sell British-made
goods, and even pupils to leave the schools and colleges. This wholesale "out-casting" of everything
British would make the English in India a new sort of Pariah--"untouchables"; the British Government
and the British community in India would be left in absolute isolation, and the Raj, rendered
unworkable, would have to capitulate to the extremist demands for complete self-government.

Such was the non-co-operation idea. And the idea soon found an able exponent: a certain M.
K. Gandhi, who had long possessed a reputation for personal sanctity and thus inspired the
Hindu masses with that peculiar religious fervour which certain types of Indian ascetics have
always known how to arouse. Gandhi's propaganda can be judged by the following extract from
one of his speeches: "It is as amazing as it is humiliating that less than 100,000 white men
should be able to rule 315,000,000 Indians. They do so somewhat, undoubtedly, by force, but
more by securing our co-operation in a thousand ways and making us more and more helpless and
dependent on them, as time goes forward. Let us not mistake reformed councils (legislatures),
more law-courts, and even governorships for real freedom or power. They are but subtler methods
of emasculation. The British cannot rule us by mere force. And so they resort to all means,
honourable and dishonourable, in order to retain their hold on India. They want India's billions
and they want India's man-power for their imperialistic greed. If we refuse to supply them
with men and money, we achieve our goal: namely, Swaraj,[205] equality, manliness."

The extreme hopes of the non-co-operation movement have not been realized. The Montagu-Chelmsford
reforms have been put in operation, and the first elections under them were held at the beginning
of 1921. But the outlook is far from bright. The very light vote cast at the elections revealed
the effect of the non-co-operation movement, which showed itself in countless other ways, from
strikes in factories to strikes of school-children. India to-day is in a turmoil of unrest.
And this unrest is not merely political; it is social as well. The vast economic changes which
have been going on in India for the past half-century have profoundly disorganized Indian society.
These changes will be discussed in later chapters. The point to be here noted is that the extremist
leaders are capitalizing social discontent and are unquestionably in touch with Bolshevik Russia.
Meanwhile the older factors of disturbance are by no means eliminated. The recent atrocious
massacre of dissident Sikh pilgrims by orthodox Sikh fanatics, and the three-cornered riots
between Hindus, Mohammedans, and native Christians which broke out about the same time in southern
India, reveal the hidden fires of religious and racial fanaticism that smoulder beneath the
surface of Indian life.

The truth of the matter is that India is to-day a battle-ground between the forces of evolutionary
and revolutionary change. It is an anxious and a troubled time. The old order is obviously
passing, and the new order is not yet fairly in sight. The hour is big with possibilities of
both good and evil, and no one can confidently predict the outcome.

FOOTNOTES:

[192] According to some historians, this race-mixture occurred almost at once. The theory is
that the Aryan conquerors, who outside the north-western region had very few of their own women
with them, took Dravidian women as wives or concubines, and legitimatized their half-breed
children, the offspring of the conquerors, both pure-bloods and mixed-bloods, coalescing into
a closed caste. Further infiltration of Dravidian blood was thus prevented, but Aryan race-purity
had been destroyed.

[193] Sir Bampfylde Fuller, Studies of Indian Life and Sentiment, p. 40 (London, 1910).

[194] For the nationalist movement, see Archer, Chirol, and Morrison, supra. Also Sir H. J.
S. Cotton, India in Transition (London, 1904); J. N. Farquhar, Modern Religious Movements in
India (New York, 1915); Sir W. W. Hunter, The India of the Queen and Other Essays (London,
1903); W. S. Lilly, India and Its Problems (London, 1902); Sir V. Lovett, A History of the
Indian Nationalist Movement (London, 1920); J. Ramsay Macdonald, The Government of India (London,
1920); Sir T. Morison, Imperial Rule in India (London, 1899); J. D. Rees, The Real India (London,
1908); Sir J. Strachey, India: Its Administration and Progress (Fourth Edition--London, 1911);
K. Vyasa Rao, The Future Government of India (London, 1918).

[195] I have already discussed this "Golden Age" tendency in Chapter III. For more or less
Extremist Indian view-points, see A. Coomaraswamy, The Dance of Siva (New York, 1918); H. Maitra,
Hinduism: The World-Ideal (London, 1916); Bipin Chandra Pal, "The Forces Behind the Unrest
in India," Contemporary Review, February, 1910; also various writings of Lajpat Rai, especially
The Arya Samaj (London, 1915) and Young India (New York, 1916).

[196] For Indian Mohammedan points of view, mostly anti-Hindu, see H. H. The Aga Khan, India
in Transition (London, 1918); S. Khuda Bukhsh, Essays: Indian and Islamic (London, 1912); Sir
Syed Ahmed, The Present State of Indian Politics (Allahabad, 1888); Syed Sirdar Ali Khan, The
Unrest in India (Bombay, 1907); also his India of To-day (Bombay, 1908).

[197] This attitude of the "Depressed Classes," especially as revealed in the "Namasudra Association,"
has already been discussed in Chapter III, and will be further touched upon later in this present
chapter.

[198] Regarding the Indian native princes, see Archer and Chirol, supra. Also J. Pollen, "Native
States and Indian Home Rule," Asiatic Review, January 1, 1917; The Maharajah of Bobbili, Advice
to the Indian Aristocracy (Madras, 1905); articles by Sir D. Barr and Sir F. Younghusband in
The Empire and the Century (London, 1905).

[199] A good symposium of extremist comment is contained in Chirol, supra. Also see J. D. Rees,
The Real India (London, 1908); series of extremist articles in The Open Court, March, 1917.
A good sample of extremist literature is the fairly well-known pamphlet India's "Loyalty" to
England (1915).

[200] Discussed in the preceding chapter.

[201] Quoted in Chapter IV.

[202] Lord Sydenham, "India," Contemporary Review, November, 1918. For similar criticisms of
the Montagu-Chelmsford proposals, see G. M. Chesney, India under Experiment (London, 1918);
"The First Stage towards Indian Anarchy," Spectator, December 20, 1919.

[203] Lionel Curtis, Letters to the People of India on Responsible Government, already quoted
at the end of Chapter IV.

[204] Sir V. Chirol, "India in Travail," Edinburgh Review, July, 1918.

[205] I. e., self-government, in the extremist sense--practically independence.

CHAPTER VII

ECONOMIC CHANGE

One of the most interesting phenomena of modern world-history is the twofold conquest of the
East by the West. The word "conquest" is usually employed in a political sense, and calls up
visions of embattled armies subduing foreign lands and lording it over distant peoples. Such
political conquests in the Orient did of course occur, and we have already seen how, during
the past century, the decrepit states of the Near and Middle East fell an easy prey to the
armed might of the European Powers.

But what is not so generally realized is the fact that this political conquest was paralleled
by an economic conquest perhaps even more complete and probably destined to produce changes
of an even more profound and enduring character.

The root-cause of this economic conquest was the Industrial Revolution. Just as the voyages
of Columbus and Da Gama gave Europe the strategic mastery of the ocean and thereby the political
mastery of the world, so the technical inventions of the later eighteenth century which inaugurated
the Industrial Revolution gave Europe the economic mastery of the world. These inventions in
fact heralded a new Age of Discovery, this time into the realms of science. The results were,
if possible, more momentous even than those of the age of geographical discovery three centuries
before. They gave our race such increased mastery over the resources of nature that the ensuing
transformation of economic life swiftly and utterly transformed the face of things.

This transformation was, indeed, unprecedented in the world's history. Hitherto man's material
progress had been a gradual evolution. With the exception of gunpowder, he had tapped no new
sources of material energy since very ancient times. The horse-drawn mail-coach of our great-grandfathers
was merely a logical elaboration of the horse-drawn Egyptian chariot; the wind-driven clipper-ship
traced its line unbroken to Ulysses's lateen bark before Troy; while industry still relied
on the brawn of man and beast or upon the simple action of wind and waterfall. Suddenly all
was changed. Steam, electricity, petrol, the Hertzian wave, harnessed nature's hidden powers,
conquered distance, and shrunk the terrestrial globe to the measure of human hands. Man entered
a new material world, differing not merely in degree but in kind from that of previous generations.

When I say "Man," I mean, so far as the nineteenth century was concerned, the white man of
Europe and its racial settlements overseas. It was the white man's brain which had conceived
all this, and it was the white man alone who at first reaped the benefits. The two outstanding
features of the new order were the rise of machine-industry with its incalculable acceleration
of mass-production, and the correlative development of cheap and rapid transportation. Both
these factors favoured a prodigious increase in economic power and wealth in Europe, since
Europe became the workshop of the world. In fact, during the nineteenth century, Europe was
transformed from a semi-rural continent into a swarming hive of industry, gorged with goods,
capital, and men, pouring forth its wares to the remotest corners of the earth, and drawing
thence fresh stores of raw material for new fabrication and exchange.

Such was the industrially revolutionized West which confronted an East as backward and stagnant
in economics as it was in politics and the art of war. In fact, the East was virtually devoid
of either industry or business, as we understand these terms to-day. Economically, the East
was on an agricultural basis, the economic unit being the self-supporting, semi-isolated village.
Oriental "industries" were handicrafts, carried on by relatively small numbers of artisans,
usually working by and for themselves. Their products, while often exquisite in quality, were
largely luxuries, and were always produced by such slow, antiquated methods that their quantity
was limited and their market price relatively high. Despite very low wages, therefore, Asiatic
products not only could not compete in the world-market with European and American machine-made,
mass-produced articles, but were hard hit in their home-markets as well.

This Oriental inability to compete with Western industry arose not merely from methods of production
but also from other factors such as the mentality of the workers and the scarcity of capital.
Throughout the Near and Middle East economic life rested on the principle of status. The Western
economic principles of contract and competition were virtually unknown. Agriculturalists and
artisans followed blindly in the footsteps of their fathers. There was no competition, no stimulus
for improvement, no change in customary wages, no desire for a better and more comfortable
living. The industries were stereotyped; the apprentice merely imitated his master, and rarely
thought of introducing new implements or new methods of manufacture. Instead of working for
profit and advancement, men followed an hereditary "calling," usually hallowed by religious
sanctions, handed down from father to son through many generations, each calling possessing
its own unchanging ideals, its zealously guarded craft-secrets.

The few bolder, more enterprising spirits who might have ventured to break the iron bands of
custom and tradition were estopped by lack of capital. Fluid "investment" capital, easily mobilized
and ready to pour into an enterprise of demonstrable utility and profit, simply did not exist.
To the Oriental, whether prince or peasant, money was regarded, not as a source of profit or
a medium of exchange, but as a store of value, to be hoarded intact against a "rainy day."
The East has been known for ages as a "sink of the precious metals." In India alone, the value
of the gold, silver, and jewels hidden in strong-boxes, buried in the earth, or hanging about
the necks of women must run into billions. Says a recent writer on India: "I had the privilege
of being taken through the treasure-vaults of one of the wealthiest Maharajahs. I could have
plunged my arm to the shoulder in great silver caskets filled with diamonds, pearls, emeralds,
rubies. The walls were studded with hooks and on each pair of hooks rested gold bars three
to four feet long and two inches across. I stood by a great cask of diamonds, and picking up
a handful let them drop slowly from between my fingers, sparkling and glistening like drops
of water in sunlight. There are some seven hundred native states, and the rulers of every one
has his treasure-vaults on a more or less elaborate scale. Besides these, every zamindar and
every Indian of high or low degree who can save anything, wants to have it by him in actual
metal; he distrusts this new-fangled paper currency that they try to pass off on him. Sometimes
he beats his coins into bangles for his wives, and sometimes he hides money behind a loose
brick or under a flat stone in the bottom of the oven, or he goes out and digs a little hole
and buries it."[206]

Remember that this description is of present-day India, after more than a century of British
rule and notwithstanding a permeation of Western ideas which, as we shall presently see, has
produced momentous modifications in the native point of view. Remember also that this hoarding
propensity is not peculiar to India but is shared by the entire Orient. We can then realize
the utter lack of capital for investment purposes in the East of a hundred years ago, especially
when we remember that political insecurity and religious prohibitions of the lending of money
at interest stood in the way of such far-sighted individuals as might have been inclined to
employ their hoarded wealth for productive purposes. There was, indeed, one outlet for financial
activity--usury, and therein virtually all the scant fluid capital of the old Orient was employed.
But such capital, lent not for productive enterprise, but for luxury, profligacy, or incompetence,
was a destructive rather than a creative force and merely intensified the prejudice against
capital of any kind.

Such was the economic life of the Orient a hundred years ago. It is obvious that this archaic
order was utterly unable to face the tremendous competition of the industrialized West. Everywhere
the flood of cheap Western machine-made, mass-produced goods began invading Eastern lands,
driving the native wares before them. The way in which an ancient Oriental handicraft like
the Indian textiles was literally annihilated by the destructive competition of Lancashire
cottons is only one of many similar instances. To be sure, some Oriental writers contend that
this triumph of Western manufactures was due to political rather than economic reasons, and
Indian nationalists cite British governmental activity in favour of the Lancashire cottons
above mentioned as the sole cause for the destruction of the Indian textile handicrafts. But
such arguments appear to be fallacious. British official action may have hastened the triumph
of British industry in India, but that triumph was inevitable in the long run. The best proof
is the way in which the textile crafts of independent Oriental countries like Turkey and Persia
were similarly ruined by Western competition.

A further proof is the undoubted fact that Oriental peoples, taken as a whole, have bought
Western-manufactured products in preference to their own hand-made wares. To many Westerners
this has been a mystery. Such persons cannot understand how the Orientals could buy the cheap,
shoddy products of the West, manufactured especially for the Eastern market, in preference
to their native wares of better quality and vastly greater beauty. The answer, however, is
that the average Oriental is not an art connoisseur but a poor man living perilously close
to the margin of starvation. He not only wants but must buy things cheap, and the wide price-margin
is the deciding factor. Of course there is also the element of novelty. Besides goods which
merely replace articles he has always used, the West has introduced many new articles whose
utility or charm are irresistible. I have already mentioned the way in which the sewing-machine
and the kerosene-lamp have swept the Orient from end to end, and there are many other instances
of a similar nature. The permeation of Western industry has, in fact, profoundly modified every
phase of Oriental economic life. Says a lifelong American student of the Orient: "The knowledge
of modern inventions and of other foods and articles has created new wants. The Chinese peasant
is no longer content to burn bean-oil; he wants kerosene. The desire of the Asiatic to possess
foreign lamps is equalled only by his passion for foreign clocks. The ambitious Syrian scorns
the mud roof of his ancestors, and will be satisfied only with the bright red tiles imported
from France. Everywhere articles of foreign manufacture are in demand.... Knowledge increases
wants, and the Oriental is acquiring knowledge. He demands a hundred things to-day that his
grandfather never heard of."[207]

Everywhere it is the same story. An Indian economic writer, though a bitter enemy of Western
industrialism, bemoans the fact that "the artisans are losing their occupations and are turning
to agriculture. The cheap kerosene-oil from Baku or New York threatens the oilman's[208] existence.
Brass and copper which have been used for vessels from time immemorial are threatened by cheap
enamelled ironware imported from Europe.... There is also, pari passu, a transformation of
the tastes of the consumers. They abandon gur for crystal sugar. Home-woven cloths are now
replaced by manufactured cloths for being too coarse. All local industries are attacked and
many have been destroyed. Villages that for centuries followed customary practices are brought
into contact with the world's markets all on a sudden. For steamships and railways which have
established the connection have been built in so short an interval as hardly to allow breathing-time
to the village which slumbered so long under the dominion of custom. Thus the sudden introduction
of competition into an economic unit which had from time immemorial followed custom has wrought
a mighty change."[209]

This "mighty change" was due not merely to the influx of Western goods but also to an equally
momentous influx of Western capital. The opportunities for profitable investment were so numerous
that Western capital soon poured in streams into Eastern lands. Virtually devoid of fluid capital
of its own, the Orient was bound to have recourse to Western capital for the initiation of
all economic activity in the modern sense. Railways, mines, large-scale agriculture of the
"plantation" type, and many other undertakings thus came into being. Most notable of all was
the founding of numerous manufacturing establishments from North Africa to China and the consequent
growth of genuine "factory towns" where the whir of machinery and the smoke of tall chimneys
proclaimed that the East was adopting the industrial life of the West.

The momentous social consequences of this industrialization of the Orient will be treated in
subsequent chapters. In the present chapter we will confine ourselves to a consideration of
its economic side. Furthermore, this book, limited as it is to the Near and Middle East, cannot
deal with industrial developments in China and Japan. The reader should, however, always bear
in mind Far Eastern developments, which, in the main, run parallel to those which we shall
here discuss.

These industrial innovations were at first pure Western transplantings set in Eastern soil.
Initiated by Western capital, they were wholly controlled and managed by Western brains. Western
capital could not venture to entrust itself to Orientals, with their lack of the modern industrial
spirit, their habits of "squeeze" and nepotism, their lust for quick returns, and their incapacity
for sustained business team-play. As time passed, however, the success of Western undertakings
so impressed Orientals that the more forward-looking among them were ready to risk their money
and to acquire the technique necessary for success. At the close of Chapter II, I described
the development of modern business types in the Moslem world, and the same is true of the non-Moslem
populations of India. In India there were several elements such as the Parsis and the Hindu
"banyas," or money-lenders, whose previous activities in commerce or usury predisposed them
to financial and industrial activity in the modern sense. From their ranks have chiefly sprung
the present-day native business communities of India, exemplified by the jute and textile factories
of Calcutta and Bombay, and the great Tata iron-works of Bengal--undertakings financed by native
capital and wholly under native control. Of course, beside these successes there have been
many lamentable failures. Nevertheless, there seems to be no doubt that Western industrialism
is ceasing to be an exotic and is rooting itself firmly in Eastern soil.[210]

The combined result of Western and Eastern enterprise has been, as already stated, the rise
of important industrial centres at various points in the Orient. In Egypt a French writer remarks:
"Both banks of the Nile are lined with factories, sugar-refineries and cotton-mills, whose
belching chimneys tower above the mud huts of the fellahs."[211] And Sir Theodore Morison says
of India: "In the city of Bombay the industrial revolution has already been accomplished. Bombay
is a modern manufacturing city, where both the dark and the bright side of modern industrialism
strike the eye. Bombay has insanitary slums where overcrowding is as great an evil as in any
European city; she has a proletariat which works long hours amid the din and whir of machinery;
she also has her millionaires, whose princely charities have adorned her streets with beautiful
buildings. Signs of lavish wealth and, let me add, culture and taste in Bombay astonish the
visitor from the inland districts. The brown villages and never-ending fields with which he
has hitherto been familiar are the India which is passing away; Bombay is the presage of the
future."[212]

The juxtaposition of vast natural resources and a limitless supply of cheap labour has encouraged
the most ambitious hopes in Oriental minds. Some Orientals look to a combination of Western
money and Eastern man-power, expressed by an Indian economic writer in the formula: "English
money and Indian labour are the two cheapest things in the world."[213] Others more ambitiously
dream of industrializing the East entirely by native effort, to the exclusion and even to the
detriment of the West. This view was well set forth some years ago by a Hindu, who wrote in
a leading Indian periodical:[214] "In one sense the Orient is really menacing the West, and
so earnest and open-minded is Asia that no pretence or apology whatever is made about it. The
Easterner has thrown down the industrial gauntlet, and from now on Asia is destined to witness
a progressively intense trade warfare, the Occidental scrambling to retain his hold on the
markets of the East, and the Oriental endeavouring to beat him in a battle in which heretofore
he has been an easy victor.... In competing with the Occidental commercialists, the Oriental
has awakened to a dynamic realization of the futility of pitting unimproved machinery and methods
against modern methods and appliances. Casting aside his former sense of self-complacency,
he is studying the sciences and arts that have given the West its material prosperity. He is
putting the results of his investigations to practical use, as a rule, recasting the Occidental
methods to suit his peculiar needs, and in some instances improving upon them."

This statement of the spirit of the Orient's industrial awakening is confirmed by many white
observers. At the very moment when the above article was penned, an American economic writer
was making a study tour of the Orient, of which he reported: "The real cause of Asia's poverty
lies in just two things: the failure of Asiatic governments to educate their people, and the
failure of the people to increase their productive capacity by the use of machinery. Ignorance
and lack of machinery are responsible for Asia's poverty; knowledge and modern tools are responsible
for America's prosperity." But, continues this writer, we must watch out. Asia now realizes
these facts and is doing much to remedy the situation. Hence, "we must face in ever-increasing
degree the rivalry of awakening peoples who are strong with the strength that comes from struggle
with poverty and hardship, and who have set themselves to master and apply all our secrets
in the coming world-struggle for industrial supremacy and for racial readjustment."[215] Another
American observer of Asiatic economic conditions reports: "All Asia is being permeated with
modern industry and present-day mechanical progress."[216] And Sir Theodore Morison concludes
regarding India's economic future: "India's industrial transformation is near at hand; the
obstacles which have hitherto prevented the adoption of modern methods of manufacture have
been removed; means of transport have been spread over the face of the whole country, capital
for the purchase of machinery and erection of factories may now be borrowed on easy terms;
mechanics, engineers, and business managers may be hired from Europe to train the future captains
of Indian industry; in English a common language has been found in which to transact business
with all the provinces of India and with a great part of the Western world; security from foreign
invasion and internal commotion justifies the inception of large enterprises. All the conditions
are favourable for a great reorganization of industry which, when successfully accomplished,
will bring about an increase hitherto undreamed of in India's annual output of wealth."[217]

The factor usually relied upon to overcome the Orient's handicaps of inexperience and inexpertness
in industrialism is its cheap labour. To Western observers the low wages and long hours of
Eastern industry are literally astounding. Take Egypt and India as examples of industrial conditions
in the Near and Middle East. Writing of Egypt in 1908, the English economist H. N. Brailsford
says: "There was then no Factory Act in Egypt. There are all over the country ginning-mills,
which employ casual labour to prepare raw cotton for export during four or five months of the
year. The wages were low, from 7-1/2d. to 10d. (15 to 20 cents) a day for an adult, and 6d.
(12 cents) for a child. Children and adults alike worked sometimes for twelve, usually for
fifteen, and on occasion even for sixteen or eighteen hours a day. In the height of the season
even the children were put on night shifts of twelve hours."[218]

In India conditions are about the same. The first thorough investigation of Indian industry
was made in 1907 by a factory labour commission, and the following are some of the data published
in its report: In the cotton-mills of Bombay the hours regularly worked ran from thirteen to
fourteen hours. In the jute-mills of Calcutta the operatives usually worked fifteen hours.
Cotton-ginning factories required their employees to work seventeen and eighteen hours a day,
rice and flour mills twenty to twenty-two hours, and an extreme case was found in a printing
works where the men had to work twenty-two hours a day for seven consecutive days. As to wages,
an adult male operative, working from thirteen to fifteen hours a day, received from 15 to
20 rupees a month ($5 to $6.35). Child labour was very prevalent, children six and seven years
old working "half-time"--in many cases eight hours a day. As a result of this report legislation
was passed by the Indian Government bettering working conditions somewhat, especially for women
and children. But in 1914 the French economist Albert Métin, after a careful study, reported
factory conditions not greatly changed, the Factory Acts systematically evaded, hours very
long, and wages extremely low. In Bombay men were earning from 10 cents to 20 cents per day,
the highest wages being 30 cents. For women and children the maximum was 10 cents per day.[219]

With such extraordinarily low wages and long hours of labour it might at first sight seem as
though, given adequate capital and up-to-date machinery, the Orient could not only drive Occidental
products from Eastern markets but might invade Western markets as well. This, indeed, has been
the fear of many Western writers. Nearly three-quarters of a century ago Gobineau prophesied
an industrial invasion of Europe from Asia,[220] and of late years economists like H. N. Brailsford
have warned against an emigration of Western capital to the tempting lure of factory conditions
in Eastern lands.[221] Nevertheless, so far as the Near and Middle East is concerned, nothing
like this has as yet materialized. China, to be sure, may yet have unpleasant surprises in
store for the West,[222] but neither the Moslem world nor India have developed factory labour
with the skill, stamina, and assiduity sufficient to undercut the industrial workers of Europe
and America. In India, for example, despite a swarming and poverty-stricken population, the
factories are unable to recruit an adequate or dependable labour-supply. Says M. Métin: "With
such long hours and low wages it might be thought that Indian industry would be a formidable
competitor of the West. This is not so. The reason is the bad quality of the work. The poorly
paid coolies are so badly fed and so weak that it takes at least three of them to do the work
of one European. Also, the Indian workers lack not only strength but also skill, attention,
and liking for their work.... An Indian of the people will do anything else in preference to
becoming a factory operative. The factories thus get only the dregs of the working class. The
workers come to the factories and mines as a last resort; they leave as soon as they can return
to their prior occupations or find a more remunerative employment. Thus the factories can never
count on a regular labour-supply. Would higher wages remedy this? Many employers say no--as
soon as the workers got a little ahead they would quit, either temporarily till their money
was spent, or permanently for some more congenial calling."[223] These statements are fully
confirmed by an Indian economic writer, who says: "One of the greatest drawbacks to the establishment
of large industries in India is the scarcity and inefficiency of labour. Cheap labour, where
there is no physical stamina, mental discipline, and skill behind it, tends to be costly in
the end. The Indian labourer is mostly uneducated. He is not in touch with his employers or
with his work. The labouring population of the towns is a flitting, dilettante population."[224]

Thus Indian industry, despite its very considerable growth, has not come up to early expectations.
As the official Year-Book very frankly states: "India, in short, is a country rich in raw materials
and in industrial possibilities, but poor in manufacturing accomplishments."[225] In fact,
to some observers, India's industrial future seems far from bright. As a competent English
student of Indian conditions recently wrote: "Some years ago it seemed possible that India
might, by a rapid assimilation of Western knowledge and technical skill, adapt for her own
conditions the methods of modern industry, and so reach an approximate economic level. Some
even now threaten the Western world with a vision of the vast populations of China and India
rising up with skilled organization, vast resources, and comparatively cheap labour to impoverish
the West. To the present writer this is a mere bogey. The peril is of a very different kind.
Instead of a growing approximation, he sees a growing disparity. For every step India takes
toward mechanical efficiency, the West takes two. When India is beginning to use bicycles and
motor-cars (not to make them), the West is perfecting the aeroplane. That is merely symbolic.
The war, as we know, has speeded up mechanical invention and produced a population of mechanics;
but India has stood comparatively still. It is, up to now, overwhelmingly mediæval, a country
of domestic industry and handicrafts. Mechanical power, even of the simplest, has not yet been
applied to its chief industry--agriculture. Yet the period of age-long isolation is over, and
India can never go back to it; nevertheless, the gap between East and West is widening. What
is to be the outcome for her 300 millions? We are in danger in the East of seeing the worst
evils of commercialism developed on an enormous scale, with the vast population of India the
victims--of seeing the East become a world slum."[226]

Whether or not this pessimistic outlook is justified, certain it is that not merely India but
the entire Orient is in a stage of profound transition; and transition periods are always painful
times. We have been considering the new industrial proletariat of the towns. But the older
social classes are affected in very similar fashion. The old-type handicraftsman and small
merchant are obviously menaced by modern industrial and business methods, and the peasant masses
are in little better shape. It is not merely a change in technique but a fundamental difference
in outlook on life that is involved. The life of the old Orient, while there was much want
and hardship, was an easygoing life, with virtually no thought of such matters as time, efficiency,
output, and "turnover." The merchant sat cross-legged in his little booth amid his small stock
of wares, passively waiting for trade, chaffering interminably with his customers, annoyed
rather than pleased if brisk business came his way. The artisan usually worked by and for himself,
keeping his own hours and knocking off whenever he chose. The peasant arose with the dawn,
but around noon he and his animals lay down for a long nap and slept until, in the cool of
afternoon, they awoke, stretched themselves, and, comfortably and casually, went to work again.

To such people the speed, system, and discipline of our economic life are painfully repugnant,
and adaptation can at best be effected only very slowly and under the compulsion of the direst
necessity. Meanwhile they suffer from the competition of those better equipped in the economic
battle. Sir William Ramsay paints a striking picture of the way in which the Turkish population
of Asia Minor, from landlords and merchants to simple peasants, have been going down-hill for
the last half-century under the economic pressure not merely of Westerners but of the native
Christian elements, Armenians and Greeks, who had partially assimilated Western business ideas
and methods. Under the old state of things, he says, there was in Asia Minor "no economic progress
and no mercantile development; things went on in the old fashion, year after year. Such simple
business as was carried on was inconsistent with the highly developed Western business system
and Western civilization; but it was not oppressive to the people. There were no large fortunes;
there was no opportunity for making a great fortune; it was impossible for one man to force
into his service the minds and the work of a large number of people, and so to create a great
organization out of which he might make big profits. There was a very large number of small
men doing business on a small scale."[227] Sir William Ramsay then goes on to describe the
shattering of this archaic economic life by modern business methods, to the consequent impoverishment
of all classes of the unadaptable Turkish population.

How the agricultural classes, peasants and landlords alike, are suffering from changing economic
conditions is well exemplified by the recent history of India. Says the French writer Chailley,
an authoritative student of Indian problems: "For the last half-century large fractions of
the agricultural classes are being entirely despoiled of their lands or reduced to onerous
tenancies. On the other hand, new classes are rising and taking their place.... Both ryots
and zamindars[228] are involved. The old-type nobility has not advanced with the times. It
remains idle and prodigal, while the peasant proprietors, burdened by the traditions of many
centuries, are likewise improvident and ignorant. On the other hand, the economic conditions
of British India are producing capitalists who seek employment for their wealth. A conflict
between them and the old landholders was predestined, and the result was inevitable. Wealth
goes to the cleverest, and the land must pass into the hands of new masters, to the great indignation
of the agricultural classes, a portion of whom will be reduced to the position of farm-labourers."[229]

The Hindu economist Mukerjee thus depicts the disintegration and decay of the Indian village:
"New economic ideas have now begun to influence the minds of the villagers. Some are compelled
to leave their occupations on account of foreign competition, but more are leaving their hereditary
occupations of their own accord. The Brahmins go to the cities to seek government posts or
professional careers. The middle classes also leave their villages and get scattered all over
the country to earn a living. The peasants also leave their ancestral acres and form a class
of landless agricultural labourers. The villages, drained of their best blood, stagnate and
decay. The movement from the village to the city is in fact not only working a complete revolution
in the habits and ideals of our people, but its economic consequences are far more serious
than are ordinarily supposed. It has made our middle classes helplessly subservient to employment
and service, and has also killed the independence of our peasant proprietors. It has jeopardized
our food-supply, and is fraught with the gravest peril not only to our handicrafts but also
to our national industry--agriculture."[230]

Happily there are signs that, in Indian agriculture at least, the transition period is working
itself out and that conditions may soon be on the mend. Both the British Government and the
native princes have vied with one another in spreading Western agricultural ideas and methods,
and since the Indian peasant has proved much more receptive than has the Indian artisan, a
more intelligent type of farmer is developing, better able to keep step with the times. A good
instance is the growth of rural co-operative credit societies. First introduced by the British
Government in 1904, there were in 1915 more than 17,000 such associations, with a total of
825,000 members and a working capital of nearly $30,000,000. These agricultural societies make
loans for the purchase of stock, fodder, seed, manure, sinking of wells, purchase of Western
agricultural machinery, and, in emergencies, personal maintenance. In the districts where they
have established themselves they have greatly diminished the plague of usury practised by the
"banyas," or village money-lenders, lowering the rate of interest from its former crushing
range of 20 to 75 per cent. to a range averaging from 9 to 18 per cent. Of course such phenomena
are as yet merely exceptions to a very dreary rule. Nevertheless, they all point toward a brighter
morrow.[231]

But this brighter agricultural morrow is obviously far off, and in industry it seems to be
farther still. Meanwhile the changing Orient is full of suffering and discontent. What wonder
that many Orientals ascribe their troubles, not to the process of economic transition, but
to the political control of European governments and the economic exploitation of Western capital.
The result is agitation for emancipation from Western economic as well as Western political
control. At the end of Chapter II we examined the movement among the Mohammedan peoples known
as "Economic Pan-Islamism." A similar movement has arisen among the Hindus of India--the so-called
"Swadeshi" movement. The Swadeshists declare that India's economic ills are almost entirely
due to the "drain" of India's wealth to England and other Western lands. They therefore advocate
a boycott of English goods until Britain grants India self-government, whereupon they propose
to erect protective tariffs for Indian products, curb the activities of British capital, replace
high-salaried English officials by natives, and thereby keep India's wealth at home.[232]

An analysis of these Swadeshist arguments, however, reveals them as inadequate to account for
India's ills, which are due far more to the general economic trend of the times than to any
specific defects of the British connection. British governance and British capital do cost
money, but their undoubted efficiency in producing peace, order, security, and development
must be considered as offsets to the higher costs which native rule and native capital would
impose. As Sir Theodore Morison well says: "The advantages which the British Navy and British
credit confer on India are a liberal offset to her expenditure on pensions and gratuities to
her English servants.... India derives a pecuniary advantage from her connection with the British
Empire. The answer, then, which I give to the question 'What economic equivalent does India
get for foreign payments?' is this: India gets the equipment of modern industry, and she gets
an administration favourable to economic evolution cheaper than she could provide it herself."[233]
A comparison with Japan's much more costly defence budgets, inferior credit, and higher interest
charges on both public and private loans is enlightening on this point.

In fact, some Indians themselves admit the fallacy of Swadeshist arguments. As one of them
remarks: "The so-called economic 'drain' is nonsense. Most of the misery of late years is due
to the rising cost of living--a world-wide phenomenon." And in proof of this he cites conditions
in other Oriental countries, especially Japan.[234] As warm a friend of the Indian people as
the British labour leader, Ramsay Macdonald, states: "One thing is quite evident, a tariff
will not re-establish the old hand-industry of India nor help to revive village handicrafts.
Factory and machine production, native to India itself, will throttle them as effectively as
that of Lancashire and Birmingham has done in the past."[235]

Even more trenchant are the criticisms formulated by the Hindu writer Pramatha Nath Bose.[236]
The "drain," says Mr. Bose, is ruining India. But would the Home Rule programme, as envisaged
by most Swadeshists, cure India's economic ills? Under Home Rule these people would do the
following things: (1) Substitute Englishmen for Indians in the Administration; (2) levy protective
duties on Indian products; (3) grant State encouragement to Indian industries; (4) disseminate
technical education. Now, how would these matters work out? The substitution of Indian for
British officials would not lessen the "drain" as much as most Home Rulers think. The high-placed
Indian officials who already exist have acquired European standards of living, so the new official
corps would cost almost as much as the old. Also, "the influence of the example set by the
well-to-do Indian officials would permeate Indian society more largely than at present, and
the demand for Western articles would rise in proportion. So commercial exploitation by foreigners
would not only continue almost as if they were Europeans, but might even increase." As to a
protective tariff, it would attract European capital to India which would exploit labour and
skim the profits. India has shown relatively little capacity for indigenous industrial development.
Of course, even at low wages, many Indians might benefit, yet such persons would form only
a tithe of the millions now starving--besides the fact that this industrialization would bring
in many new social evils. As to State encouragement of industries, this would bring in Western
capital even more than a protective tariff, with the results already stated. As for technical
education, it is a worthy project, but, says Mr. Bose, "I am afraid the movement is too late,
now. Within the last thirty years the Westerners and the Japanese have gone so far ahead of
us industrially that it has been yearly becoming more and more difficult to compete with them."

In fact, Mr. Bose goes on to criticize the whole system of Western education, as applied to
India. Neither higher nor lower education have proven panaceas. "Higher education has led to
the material prosperity of a small section of our community, comprising a few thousands of
well-to-do lawyers, doctors, and State servants. But their occupations being of a more or less
unproductive or parasitic character, their well-being does not solve the problem of the improvement
of India as a whole. On the contrary, as their taste for imported articles develops in proportion
to their prosperity, they help to swell rather than diminish the economic drain from the country
which is one of the chief causes of our impoverishment." Neither has elementary education "on
the whole furthered the well-being of the multitude. It has not enabled the cultivators to
'grow two blades where one grew before.' On the contrary, it has distinctly diminished their
efficiency by inculcating in the literate proletariat, who constitute the cream of their class,
a strong distaste for their hereditary mode of living and their hereditary callings, and an
equally strong taste for shoddy superfluities and brummagem fineries, and for occupations of
a more or less parasitic character. They have, directly or indirectly, accelerated rather than
retarded the decadence of indigenous industries, and have thus helped to aggravate their own
economic difficulties and those of the entire community. What they want is more food--and New
India vies with the Government in giving them what is called 'education' that does not increase
their food-earning capacity, but on the contrary fosters in them tastes and habits which make
them despise indigenous products and render them fit subjects for the exploitation of scheming
capitalists, mostly foreign. Political and economic causes could not have led to the extinction
of indigenous industry if they had not been aided by change of taste fostered by the Western
environment of which the so-called 'education' is a powerful factor."

From all this Mr. Bose concludes that none of the reforms advocated by the Home Rulers would
cure India's ills. "In fact, the chances are, she would be more inextricably entangled in the
toils of Western civilization, without any adequate compensating advantage, and the grip of
the West would close on her to crush her more effectively." Therefore, according to Mr. Bose,
the only thing for India to do is to turn her back on everything Western and plunge resolutely
into the traditional past. As he expresses it: "India's salvation lies, not in the region of
politics, but outside it; not in aspiring to be one of the 'great' nations of the present day,
but in retiring to her humble position--a position, to my mind, of solitary grandeur and glory;
not in going forward on the path of Western civilization, but in going back from it so far
as practicable; not in getting more and more entangled in the silken meshes of its finely knit,
widespread net, but in escaping from it as far as possible."

Such are the drastic conclusions of Mr. Bose; conclusions shared to a certain extent by other
Indian idealists like Rabindranath Tagore. But surely such projects, however idealistic, are
the vainest fantasies. Whole peoples cannot arbitrarily cut themselves off from the rest of
the world, like isolated individuals forswearing society and setting up as anchorites in the
jungle. The time for "hermit nations" has passed, especially for a vast country like India,
set at the cross-roads of the East, open to the sea, and already profoundly penetrated by Western
ideas.

Nevertheless, such criticisms, appealing as they do to the strong strain of asceticism latent
in the Indian nature, have affected many Indians who, while unable to concur in the conclusions,
still try to evolve a "middle term," retaining everything congenial in the old system and grafting
on a select set of Western innovations. Accordingly, these persons have elaborated programmes
for a "new order" built on a blend of Hindu mysticism, caste, Western industry, and socialism.[237]

Now these schemes are highly ingenious. But they are not convincing. Their authors should remember
the old adage that you cannot eat your cake and have it too. When we realize the abysmal antithesis
between the economic systems of the old East and the modern West, any attempt to combine the
most congenial points of both while eschewing their defects seems an attempt to reconcile irreconcilables
and about as profitable as trying to square the circle. As Lowes Dickinson wisely observes:
"Civilization is a whole. Its art, its religion, its way of life, all hang together with its
economic and technical development. I doubt whether a nation can pick and choose; whether,
for instance, the East can say, 'We will take from the West its battleships, its factories,
its medical science; we will not take its social confusion, its hurry and fatigue, its ugliness,
its over-emphasis on activity.'... So I expect the East to follow us, whether it like it or
no, into all these excesses, and to go right through, not round, all that we have been through
on its way to a higher phase of civilization."[238]

This seems to be substantially true. Judged by the overwhelming body of evidence, the East,
in its contemporary process of transformation, will follow the West--avoiding some of our more
patent mistakes, perhaps, but, in the main, proceeding along similar lines. And, as already
stated, this transformation is modifying every phase of Eastern life. We have already examined
the process at work in the religious, political, and economic phases. To the social phase let
us now turn.

FOOTNOTES:

[206] F. B. Fisher, India's Silent Revolution, p. 53 (New York, 1920).

[207] Rev. A. J. Brown, "Economic Changes in Asia," The Century, March, 1904.

[208] I. e. the purveyor of the native vegetable-oils.

[209] R. Mukerjee, The Foundations of Indian Economics, p. 5 (London, 1916).

[211] L. Bertrand, Le Mirage oriental, pp. 20-21 (Paris, 1910).

[212] Sir T. Morison, The Economic Transition in India, p. 181.

[213] Quoted by Jones, supra.

[214] The Indian Review (Madras), 1910.

[215] Clarence Poe, "What the Orient can Teach Us," World's Work, July, 1911.

[216] C. S. Cooper, The Modernizing of the Orient, p. 5 (New York, 1914).

[217] Morison, op. cit., p. 242.

[218] H. N. Brailsford, The War of Steel and Gold, p. 114 (London, 1915).

[219] A. Métin, L'Inde d'aujourd'hui: Étude sociale, p. 336 (Paris, 1918).

[220] In his book, Trois Ans en Perse (Paris, 1858).

[221] Brailsford, op. cit., pp. 83, 114-115.

[222] Regarding conditions in China, especially the extraordinary discipline and working ability
of the Chinaman, see my Rising Tide of Colour against White World-Supremacy, pp. 28-30, 243-251.

[223] Métin, op. cit., p. 337.

[224] A. Yusuf Ali, Life and Labour in India, p. 183 (London, 1907).

[225] "India in the Years 1917-1918" (official publication--Calcutta).

[226] Young and Ferrers, India in Conflict, pp. 15-17 (London, 1920).

[228] I. e. peasants and landlords.

[229] J. Chailley Administrative Problems of British India, p. 339 (London, 1910--English translation).

[230] Mukerjee, op. cit., p. 9.

[231] On the co-operative movement in India, see Fisher, India's Silent Revolution, pp. 54-58;
R. B. Ewebank, "The Co-operative Movement in India," Quarterly Review, April, 1916. India's
economic problems, both agricultural and industrial, have been carefully studied by a large
number of Indian economists, some of whose writings are extremely interesting. Some of the
most noteworthy books, besides those of Mukerjee and Yusuf Ali, already quoted, are: Dadabhai
Naoroji, Poverty and Un-British Rule in India (London, 1901); Romesh Dutt, The Economic History
of India in the Victorian Age (London, 1906); H. H. Gosh, The Advancement of Industry (Calcutta,
1910); P. C. Ray, The Poverty Problem in India (Calcutta, 1895); M. G. Ranade, Essays on Indian
Economics (Madras, 1920); Jadunath Sarkar, Economics of British India (Calcutta, 1911).

[232] The best compendium of Swadeshist opinion is the volume containing pronouncements from
all the Swadeshi leaders, entitled, The Swadeshi Movement: A Symposium (Madras, 1910). See
also writings of the economists Gosh, Mukerjee, Ray, and Sarkar, above quoted, as well as the
various writings of the nationalist agitator Lajpat Rai. A good summary interpretation is found
in M. Glotz, "Le Mouvement 'Swadeshi' dans l'Inde," Revue du Mois, July, 1913.

[233] Sir T. Morison, The Economic Transition in India, pp. 240-241. Also see Sir Valentine
Chirol, Indian Unrest, pp. 255-279; William Archer, India and the Future, pp. 131-157.

[234] Syed Sirdar Ali Khan, India of To-day, p. 19 (Bombay, 1908).

[235] J. Ramsay Macdonald, The Government of India, p. 133 (London, 1920).

[236] In The Hindustan Review (Calcutta), 1917.

[237] Good examples are found in the writings of Mukerjee and Lajpat Rai, already quoted.

[238] G. Lowes Dickinson, An Essay on the Civilizations of India, China, and Japan, pp. 84-85
(London, 1914).

CHAPTER VIII

SOCIAL CHANGE

The momentous nature of the contemporary transformation of the Orient is nowhere better attested
than by the changes effected in the lives of its peoples. That dynamic influence of the West
which is modifying governmental forms, political concepts, religious beliefs, and economic
processes is proving equally potent in the range of social phenomena. In the third chapter
of this volume we attempted a general survey of Western influence along all the above lines.
In the present chapter we shall attempt a detailed consideration of the social changes which
are to-day taking place.

These social changes are very great, albeit many of them may not be so apparent as the changes
in other fields. So firm is the hold of custom and tradition on individual, family, and group
life in the Orient that superficial observers of the East are prone to assert that these matters
are still substantially unaltered, however pronounced may have been the changes on the external,
material side. Yet such is not the opinion of the closest students of the Orient, and it is
most emphatically not the opinion of Orientals themselves. These generally stress the profound
social changes which are going on.

And it is their judgments which seem to be the more correct. To say that the East is advancing
"materially" but standing still "socially" is to ignore the elemental truth that social systems
are altered quite as much by material things as by abstract ideas. Who that looks below the
surface can deny the social, moral, and civilizing power of railroads, post-offices, and telegraph
lines? Does it mean nothing socially as well as materially that the East is adopting from the
West a myriad innovations, weighty and trivial, important and frivolous, useful and baneful?
Does it mean nothing socially as well as materially that the Prophet's tomb at Medina is lit
by electricity and that picture post-cards are sold outside the Holy Kaaba at Mecca? It may
seem mere grotesque piquancy that the muezzin should ride to the mosque in a tram-car, or that
the Moslem business man should emerge from his harem, read his morning paper, motor to an office
equipped with a prayer-rug, and turn from his devotions to dictaphone and telephone. Yet why
assume that his life is moulded by mosque, harem, and prayer-rug, and yet deny the things of
the West a commensurate share in the shaping of his social existence? Now add to these tangible
innovations intangible novelties like scientific education, Occidental amusements, and the
partial emancipation of women, and we begin to get some idea of the depth and scope of the
social transformation which is going on.

In those parts of the Orient most open to Western influences this social transformation has
attained notable proportions for more than a generation. When the Hungarian Orientalist Vambéry
returned to Constantinople in 1896 after forty years' absence, he stood amazed at the changes
which had taken place, albeit Constantinople was then subjected to the worst repression of
the Hamidian régime. "I had," he writes, "continually to ask myself this question: Is it possible
that these are my Turks of 1856; and how can all these transformations have taken place? I
was astonished at the aspect of the city; at the stone buildings which had replaced the old
wooden ones; at the animation of the streets, in which carriages and tram-cars abounded, whereas
forty years before only saddle-animals were used; and when the strident shriek of the locomotive
mingled with the melancholy calls from the minarets, all that I saw and heard seemed to me
a living protest against the old adage: 'La bidaat fil Islam'--'There is nothing to reform
in Islam.' My astonishment became still greater when I entered the houses and was able to appreciate
the people, not only by their exteriors but still more by their manner of thought. The effendi
class[239] of Constantinople seemed to me completely transformed in its conduct, outlook, and
attitude toward foreigners."[240]

Vambéry stresses the inward as well as outward evolution of the Turkish educated classes, for
he says: "Not only in his outward aspect, but also in his home-life, the present-day Turk shows
a strong inclination to the manners and habits of the West, in such varied matters as furniture,
table-manners, sex-relations, and so forth. This is of the very greatest significance. For
a people may, to be sure, assimilate foreign influences in the intellectual field, if it be
persuaded of their utility and advantage; but it gives up with more difficulty customs and
habits which are in the blood. One cannot over-estimate the numerous sacrifices which, despite
everything, the Turks have made in this line. I find all Turkish society, even the Mollahs,[241]
penetrated with the necessity of a union with Western civilization. Opinions may differ as
to the method of assimilation: some wish to impress on the foreign civilization a national
character; others, on the contrary, are partisans of our intellectual culture, such as it is,
and reprobate any kind of modification."[242]

Most significant of all, Vambéry found even the secluded women of the harems, "those bulwarks
of obscurantism," notably changed. "Yes, I repeat, the life of women in Turkey seems to me
to have been radically transformed in the last forty years, and it cannot be denied that this
transformation has been produced by internal conviction as much as by external pressure." Noting
the spread of female education, and the increasing share of women in reform movements, Vambéry
remarks: "This is of vital importance, for when women shall begin to act in the family as a
factor of modern progress, real reforms, in society as well as in the state, cannot fail to
appear."[243]

In India a similar permeation of social life by Westernism is depicted by the Moslem liberal,
S. Khuda Bukhsh, albeit Mr. Bukhsh, being an insider, lays greater emphasis upon the painful
aspects of the inevitable transition process from old to new. He is not unduly pessimistic,
for he recognizes that "the age of transition is necessarily to a certain extent an age of
laxity of morals, indifference to religion, superficial culture, and gossiping levity. These
are passing ills which time itself will cure." Nevertheless, he does not minimize the critical
aspects of the present situation, which implies nothing less than the breakdown of the old
social system. "The clearest result of this breakdown of our old system of domestic life and
social customs under the assault of European ideas," he says, "is to be found in two directions--in
our religious beliefs and in our social life. The old system, with all its faults, had many
redeeming virtues." To-day this old system, narrow-minded but God-fearing, has been replaced
by a "strange independence of thought and action. Reverence for age, respect for our elders,
deference to the opinions of others, are fast disappearing.... Under the older system the head
of the family was the sole guide and friend of its members. His word had the force of law.
He was, so to speak, the custodian of the honour and prestige of the family. From this exalted
position he is now dislodged, and the most junior member now claims equality with him."[244]

Mr. Bukhsh deplores the current wave of extravagance, due to the wholesale adoption of European
customs and modes of living. "What," he asks, "has happened here in India? We have adopted
European costume, European ways of living, even the European vices of drinking and gambling,
but none of their virtues. This must be remedied. We must learn at the feet of Europe, but
not at the sacrifice of our Eastern individuality. But this is precisely what we have not done.
We have dabbled a little in English and European history, and we have commenced to despise
our religion, our literature, our history, our traditions. We have unlearned the lessons of
our history and our civilization, and in their place we have secured nothing solid and substantial
to hold society fast in the midst of endless changes." In fine: "Destruction has done its work,
but the work of construction has not yet begun."[245]

Like Vambéry, Bukhsh lays strong emphasis on the increasing emancipation of women. No longer
regarded as mere "child-bearing machines," the Mohammedan women of India "are getting educated
day by day, and now assert their rights. Though the purdah system[246] still prevails, it is
no longer that severe, stringent, and unreasonable seclusion of women which existed fifty years
ago. It is gradually relaxing, and women are getting, step by step, rights and liberties which
must in course of time end in the complete emancipation of Eastern womanhood. Forty years ago
women meekly submitted to neglect, indifference, and even harsh treatment from their husbands,
but such is the case no longer."[247]

These two descriptions of social conditions in the Near and Middle East respectively enable
one to get a fair idea of the process of change which is going on. Of course it must not be
forgotten that both writers deal primarily with the educated upper classes of the large towns.
Nevertheless, the leaven is working steadily downward, and with every decade is affecting wider
strata of the native populations.

The spread of Western education in the East during the past few decades has been truly astonishing,
because it is the exact antithesis of the Oriental educational system. The traditional "education"
of the entire Orient, from Morocco to China, was a mere memorizing of sacred texts combined
with exercises of religious devotion. The Mohammedan or Hindu student spent long years reciting
to his master (a "holy man") interminable passages from books which, being written in classic
Arabic or Sanskrit, were unintelligible to him, so that he usually did not understand a word
of what he was saying. No more deadening system for the intellect could possibly have been
devised. Every part of the brain except the memory atrophied, and the wonder is that any intellectual
initiative or original thinking ever appeared.

Even to-day the old system persists, and millions of young Orientals are still wasting their
time at this mind-petrifying nonsense. But alongside the old there has arisen a new system,
running the whole educational gamut from kindergartens to universities, where Oriental youth
is being educated along Western lines. These new-type educational establishments are of every
kind. Besides schools and universities giving a liberal education and fitting students for
government service or the professions, there are numerous technical schools turning out skilled
agriculturists or engineers, while good normal schools assure a supply of teachers qualified
to instruct coming student-generations. Both public and private effort furthers Western education
in the East. All the European governments have favoured Western education in the lands under
their control, particularly the British in India and Egypt, while various Christian missionary
bodies have covered the East with a network of schools and colleges. Also many Oriental governments
like Turkey and the native states of India have made sincere efforts to spread Western education
among their peoples.[248]

Of course, as in any new development, the results so far obtained are far from ideal. The vicious
traditions of the past handicap or partially pervert the efforts of the present. Eastern students
are prone to use their memories rather than their intellects, and seek to cram their way quickly
through examinations to coveted posts rather than acquire knowledge and thus really fit themselves
for their careers. The result is that many fail, and these unfortunates, half-educated and
spoiled for any sort of useful occupation, vegetate miserably, come to hate that Westernism
which they do not understand, and give themselves up to anarchistic revolutionary agitation.
Sir Alfred Lyall well describes the dark side of Western education in the East when he says
of India: "Ignorance is unquestionably the root of many evils; and it was natural that in the
last century certain philosophers should have assumed education to be a certain cure for human
delusions; and that statesmen like Macaulay should have declared education to be the best and
surest remedy for political discontent and for law-breaking. In any case, it was the clear
and imperative duty of the British Government to attempt the intellectual emancipation of India
as the best justification of British rule. We have since discovered by experience, that, although
education is a sovereign remedy for many ills--is indeed indispensable to healthy progress--yet
an indiscriminate or superficial administration of this potent medicine may engender other
disorders. It acts upon the frame of an antique society as a powerful dissolvent, heating weak
brains, stimulating rash ambitions, raising inordinate expectations of which the disappointment
is bitterly resented."[249]

Indeed, some Western observers of the Orient, particularly colonial officials, have been so
much impressed by the political and social dangers arising from the existence of this "literate
proletariat" of semi-educated failures that they are tempted to condemn the whole venture of
Western education in the East as a mistake. Lord Cromer, for example, was decidedly sceptical
of the worth of the Western-educated Egyptian,[250] while a prominent Anglo-Indian official
names as the chief cause of Indian unrest, "the system of education, which we ourselves introduced--advisedly
so far as the limited vision went of those responsible; blindly in view of the inevitable consequences."[251]

Yet these pessimistic judgments do not seem to make due allowance for the inescapable evils
attendant on any transition stage. Other observers of the Orient have made due allowance for
this factor. Vambéry, for instance, notes the high percentage of honest and capable native
officials in the British Indian and French North African civil service (the bulk of these officials,
of course, Western-educated men), and concludes: "Strictly conservative Orientals, and also
fanatically inclined Europeans, think that with the entrance of our culture the primitive virtues
of the Asiatics have been destroyed, and that the uncivilized Oriental was more faithful, more
honest, and more reliable than the Asiatic educated on European principles. This is a gross
error. It may be true of the half-educated, but not of the Asiatic in whose case the intellectual
evolution is founded on the solid basis of a thorough, systematic education."[252]

And, whatever may be the ills attendant upon Western education in the East, is it not the only
practicable course to pursue? The impact of Westernism upon the Orient is too ubiquitous to
be confined to books. Granting, therefore, for the sake of argument, that colonial governments
could have prevented Western education in the formal sense, would not the Oriental have learned
in other ways? Surely it is better that he should learn through good texts under the supervision
of qualified teachers, rather than tortuously in perverted--and more dangerous--fashion.

The importance of Western education in the East is nowhere better illustrated than in the effects
it is producing in ameliorating the status of women. The depressed condition of women throughout
the Orient is too well known to need elaboration. Bad enough in Mohammedan countries, it is
perhaps at its worst among the Hindus of India, with child-marriage, the virtual enslavement
of widows (burned alive till prohibited by English law), and a seclusion more strict even than
that of the "harem" of Moslem lands. As an English writer well puts it: "'Ladies first,' we
say in the West; in the East it is 'ladies last.' That sums up succinctly the difference in
the domestic ideas of the two civilizations."[253]

Under these circumstances it might seem as though no breath of the West could yet have reached
these jealously secluded creatures. Yet, as a matter of fact, Western influences have already
profoundly affected the women of the upper classes, and female education, while far behind
that of the males, has attained considerable proportions. In the more advanced parts of the
Orient like Constantinople, Cairo, and the cities of India, distinctly "modern" types of women
have appeared, the self-supporting, self-respecting--and respected--woman school-teacher being
especially in evidence.

The social consequences of this rising status of women, not only to women themselves but also
to the community at large, are very important. In the East the harem is, as Vambéry well says,
the "bulwark of obscurantism."[254] Ignorant and fanatical herself, the harem woman implants
her ignorance and fanaticism in her sons as well as in her daughters. What could be a worse
handicap for the Eastern "intellectual" than his boyhood years spent "behind the veil"? No
wonder that enlightened Oriental fathers have been in the habit of sending their boys to school
at the earliest possible age in order to get them as soon as possible out of the stultifying
atmosphere of harem life. Yet even this has proved merely a palliative. Childhood impressions
are ever the most lasting, and so long as one-half of the Orient remained untouched by progressive
influences Oriental progress had to be begun again de novo with every succeeding generation.

The increasing number of enlightened Oriental women is remedying this fatal defect. As a Western
writer well says: "Give the mothers education and the whole situation is transformed. Girls
who are learning other things than the unintelligible phrases of the Koran are certain to impart
such knowledge, as daughters, sisters, and mothers, to their respective households. Women who
learn housewifery, methods of modern cooking, sewing, and sanitation in the domestic-economy
schools, are bound to cast about the home upon their return the atmosphere of a civilized community.
The old-time picture of the Oriental woman spending her hours upon divans, eating sweetmeats,
and indulging in petty and degrading gossip with the servants, or with women as ignorant as
herself, will be changed. The new woman will be a companion rather than a slave or a toy of
her husband. Marriage will advance from the stage of a paltry trade in bodies to something
like a real union, involving respect towards the woman by both sons and fathers, while in a
new pride of relationship the woman herself will be discovered."[255]

These men and women of the newer Orient reflect their changing ideas in their changing standards
of living. Although this is most evident among the wealthier elements of the towns, it is perceptible
in all classes of the population. Rich and poor, urban and rural, the Orientals are altering
their living standards towards those of the West. And this involves social changes of the most
far-reaching character, because few antitheses could be sharper than the living conditions
prevailing respectively in the traditional East and in the modern Western world. This basic
difference lies, not in wealth (the East, like the West, knows great riches as well as great
poverty), but rather in comfort--using the word in its broad sense. The wealthy Oriental of
the old school spends most of his money on Oriental luxuries, like fine raiment, jewels, women,
horses, and a great retinue of attendants, and then hoards the rest. But of "comfort," in the
Western sense, he knows virtually nothing, and it is safe to say that he lives under domestic
conditions which a Western artisan would despise.[256]

To-day, however, the Oriental is discovering "comfort." And, high or low, he likes it very
well. All the myriad things which make our lives easier and more agreeable--lamps, electric
light, sewing-machines, clocks, whisky, umbrellas, sanitary plumbing, and a thousand others:
all these things, which to us are more or less matters of course, are to the Oriental so many
delightful discoveries, of irresistible appeal. He wants them, and he gets them in ever-increasing
quantities. But this produces some rather serious complications. His private economy is more
or less thrown out of gear. This opening of a whole vista of new wants means a portentous rise
in his standard of living. And where is he going to find the money to pay for it? If he be
poor, he has to skimp on his bare necessities. If he be rich, he hates to forgo his traditional
luxuries. The upshot is a universal growth of extravagance. And, in this connection, it is
well to bear in mind that the peoples of the Near and Middle East, taken as a whole, have never
been really thrifty. Poor the masses may have been, and thus obliged to live frugally, but
they have always proved themselves "good spenders" when opportunity offers. The way in which
a Turkish peasant or a Hindu ryot will squander his savings and run into debt over festivals,
marriages, funerals, and other social events is astounding to Western observers.[257] Now add
to all this the fact that in the Orient, as in the rest of the world, the cost of the basic
necessaries of life--food, clothing, fuel, and shelter, has risen greatly during the past two
decades, and we can realize the gravity of the problem which higher Oriental living-standards
involves.[258]

Certain it is that the struggle for existence is growing keener and that the pressure of poverty
is getting more severe. With the basic necessaries rising in price, and with many things considered
necessities which were considered luxuries or entirely unheard of a generation ago, the Oriental
peasant or town working-man is finding it harder and harder to make both ends meet. As one
writer well phrases it: "These altered economic conditions have not as yet brought the ability
to meet them. The cost of living has increased faster than the resources of the people."[259]

One of the main (though not sufficiently recognized) causes of the economic-social crisis through
which the Orient is to-day passing is over-population. The quick breeding tendencies of Oriental
peoples have always been proverbial, and have been due not merely to strong sexual appetites
but also to economic reasons like the harsh exploitation of women and children, and perhaps
even more to religious doctrines enjoining early marriage and the begetting of numerous sons.
As a result, Oriental populations have always pressed close upon the limits of subsistence.
In the past, however, this pressure was automatically lightened by factors like war, misgovernment,
pestilence, and famine, which swept off such multitudes of people that, despite high birth-rates,
populations remained at substantially a fixed level. But here, as in every other phase of Eastern
life, Western influences have radically altered the situation. The extension of European political
control over Eastern lands has meant the putting down of internal strife, the diminution of
governmental abuses, the decrease of disease, and the lessening of the blight of famine. In
other words, those "natural" checks which previously kept down the population have been diminished
or abolished, and in response to the life-saving activities of the West, the enormous death-rate
which in the past has kept Oriental populations from excessive multiplication is falling to
proportions comparable with the low death-rate of Western nations. But to lower the Orient's
prodigious birth-rate is quite another matter. As a matter of fact, that birth-rate keeps up
with undiminished vigour, and the consequence has been a portentous increase of population
in nearly every portion of the Orient under Western political control. In fact, even those
Oriental countries which have maintained their independence have more or less adopted Western
life-conserving methods, and have experienced in greater or less degree an accelerated increase
of population.

The phenomena of over-population are best seen in India. Most of India has been under British
control for the greater part of a century. Even a century ago, India was densely populated,
yet in the intervening hundred years the population has increased between two and three fold.[260]
Of course, factors like improved agriculture, irrigation, railways, and the introduction of
modern industry enable India to support a much larger population than it could have done at
the time of the British Conquest. Nevertheless, the evidence is clear that excessive multiplication
has taken place. Nearly all qualified students of the problem concur on this point. Forty years
ago the Duke of Argyll stated: "Where there is no store, no accumulation, no wealth; where
the people live from hand to mouth from season to season on a low diet; and where, nevertheless,
they breed and multiply at such a rate; there we can at least see that this power and force
of multiplication is no evidence even of safety, far less of comfort." Towards the close of
the last century, Sir William Hunter termed population India's "fundamental problem," and continued:
"The result of civilized rule in India has been to produce a strain on the food-producing powers
of the country such as it had never before to bear. It has become a truism of Indian statistics
that the removal of the old cruel checks on population in an Asiatic country is by no means
an unmixed blessing to an Asiatic people."[261] Lord Cromer remarks of India's poverty: "Not
only cannot it be remedied by mere philanthropy, but it is absolutely certain--cruel and paradoxical
though it may appear to say so--that philanthropy enhances the evil. In the days of Akhbar
or Shah Jehan, cholera, famine, and internal strife kept down the population. Only the fittest
survived. Now internal strife is forbidden, and philanthropy steps in and says that no single
life shall be sacrificed if science and Western energy or skill can save it. Hence the growth
of a highly congested population, vast numbers of whom are living on a bare margin of subsistence.
The fact that one of the greatest difficulties of governing the teeming masses of the East
is caused by good and humane government should be recognized. It is too often ignored."[262]

William Archer well states the matter when, in answer to the query why improved external conditions
have not brought India prosperity, he says: "The reason, in my view, is simple: namely, that
the benefit of good government is, in part at any rate, nullified, when the people take advantage
of it, not to save and raise their standard of living, but to breed to the very margin of subsistence.
Henry George used to point out that every mouth that came into the world brought two hands
along with it; but though the physiological fact is undeniable, the economic deduction suggested
will not hold good except in conditions that permit of the profitable employment of the two
hands.... If mouths increase in a greater ratio than food, the tendency must be towards greater
poverty."[263]

It is one of the most unfortunate aspects of the situation that very few Oriental thinkers
yet realize that over-population is a prime cause of Oriental poverty. Almost without exception
they lay the blame to political factors, especially to Western political control. In fact,
the only case that I know of where an Eastern thinker has boldly faced the problem and has
courageously advocated birth-control is in the book published five years ago by P. K. Wattal,
a native official of the Indian Finance Department, entitled, The Population Problem of India.[264]
This pioneer volume is written with such ability and is of such apparent significance as an
indication of the awakening of Orientals to a more rational attitude, that it merits special
attention.

Mr. Wattal begins his book by a plea to his fellow-countrymen to look at the problem rationally
and without prejudice. "This essay," he says, "should not be constituted into an attack on
the spiritual civilization of our country, or even indirectly into a glorification of the materialism
of the West. The object in view is that we should take a somewhat more matter-of-fact view
of the main problem of life, viz., how to live in this world. We are a poor people; the fact
is indisputable. Our poverty is, perhaps, due to a great many causes. But I put it to every
one of us whether he has not at some of the most momentous periods of his life been handicapped
by having to support a large family, and whether this encumbrance has not seriously affected
the chances of advancement warranted by early promise and exceptional endowment. This question
should be viewed by itself. It is a physical fact, and has nothing to do with political environment
or religious obligation. If we have suffered from the consequences of that mistake, is it not
a duty that we owe to ourselves and to our progeny that its evil effects shall be mitigated
as far as possible? There is no greater curse than poverty--I say this with due respect to
our spiritualism. It is not in a spirit of reproach that restraint in married life is urged
in these pages. It is solely from a vivid realization of the hardships caused by large families
and a profound sympathy with the difficulties under which large numbers of respectable persons
struggle through life in this country that I have made bold to speak in plain terms what comes
to every young man, but which he does not care to give utterance to in a manner that would
prevent the recurrence of the evil."[265]

After this appeal to reason in his readers, Mr. Wattal develops his thesis. The first prime
cause of over-population in India, he asserts, is early marriage. Contrary to Western lands,
where population is kept down by prudential marriages and by birth-control, "for the Hindus
marriage is a sacrament which must be performed, regardless of the fitness of the parties to
bear the responsibilities of a mated existence. A Hindu male must marry and beget children--sons,
if you please--to perform his funeral rites lest his spirit wander uneasily in the waste places
of the earth. The very name of son, 'putra,' means one who saves his father's soul from the
hell called Puta. A Hindu maiden unmarried at puberty is a source of social obloquy to her
family and of damnation to her ancestors. Among the Mohammedans, who are not handicapped by
such penalties, the married state is equally common, partly owing to Hindu example and partly
to the general conditions of primitive society, where a wife is almost a necessity both as
a domestic drudge and as a helpmate in field work."[266] The worst of the matter is that, despite
the efforts of social reformers child-marriage seems to be increasing. The census of 1911 showed
that during the decade 1901-10 the numbers of married females per 1000 of ages 0-5 years rose
from 13 to 14; of ages 5-10 from 102 to 105; of 10-15 from 423 to 430, and of 15-20 from 770
to 800. In other words, in the year 1911, out of every 1000 Indian girls, over one-tenth were
married before they were 10 years old, nearly one-half before they were 15, and four-fifths
before they were 20.[267]

The result of all this is a tremendous birth-rate, but this is "no matter for congratulation.
We have heard so often of our high death-rate and the means for combating it, but can it be
seriously believed that with a birth-rate of 30 per 1000 it is possible to go on as we are
doing with the death-rate brought down to the level of England or Scotland? Is there room enough
in the country for the population to increase so fast as 20 per 1000 every year? We are paying
the inevitable penalty of bringing into this world more persons than can be properly cared
for, and therefore if we wish fewer deaths to occur in this country the births must be reduced
to the level of the countries where the death-rate is low. It is, therefore, our high birth-rate
that is the social danger; the high death-rate, however regrettable, is merely an incident
of our high birth-rate."[268]

Mr. Wattal then describes the cruel items in India's death-rate; the tremendous female mortality,
due largely to too early childbirth, and the equally terrible infant mortality, nearly 50 per
cent. of infant deaths being due to premature birth or debility at birth. These are the inevitable
penalties of early and universal marriage. For, in India, "everybody marries, fit or unfit,
and is a parent at the earliest possible age permitted by nature." This process is highly disgenic;
it is plainly lowering the quality and sapping the vigour of the race. It is the lower elements
of the population, the negroid aboriginal tribes and the Pariahs or Outcastes, who are gaining
the fastest. Also the vitality of the whole population seems to be lowering. The census figures
show that the number of elderly persons is decreasing, and that the average statistical expectation
of life is falling. "The coming generation is severely handicapped at start in life. And the
chances of living to a good old age are considerably smaller than they were, say thirty or
forty years ago. Have we ever paused to consider what it means to us in the life of the nation
as a whole? It means that the people who alone by weight of experience and wisdom are fitted
for the posts of command in the various public activities of the country are snatched away
by death; and that the guidance and leadership which belongs to age and mature judgment in
the countries of the West fall in India to younger and consequently to less trustworthy persons."[269]

After warning his fellow-countrymen that neither improved methods of agriculture, the growth
of industry, nor emigration can afford any real relief to the growing pressure of population
on means of subsistence, he notes a few hopeful signs that, despite the hold of religion and
custom, the people are beginning to realize the situation and that in certain parts of India
there are foreshadowings of birth-control. For example, he quotes from the census report for
1901 this official explanation of a slight drop in the birth-rate of Bengal: "The postponement
of the age of marriage cannot wholly account for the diminished rate of reproduction. The deliberate
avoidance of child-bearing must also be partly responsible.... It is a matter of common belief
that among the tea-garden coolies of Assam means are frequently taken to prevent conception,
or to procure abortion." And the report of the Sanitary Commissioner of Assam for 1913 states:
"An important factor in producing the defective birth-rate appears to be due to voluntary limitation
of birth."[270]

However, these beginnings of birth-control are too local and partial to afford any immediate
relief to India's growing over-population. Wider appreciation of the situation and prompt action
are needed. "The conclusion is irresistible. We can no longer afford to shut our eyes to the
social canker in our midst. In the land of the bullock-cart, the motor has come to stay. The
competition is now with the more advanced races of the West, and we cannot tell them what Diogenes
said to Alexander: 'Stand out of my sunshine.' After the close of this gigantic World War theories
of population will perhaps be revised and a reversion in favour of early marriage and larger
families may be counted upon. But, (1) that will be no solution to our own population problem,
and (2) this reaction will be only for a time.... The law of population may be arrested in
its operation, but there is no way of escaping it."[271]

So concludes this striking little book. Furthermore, we must remember that, although India
may be the acutest sufferer from over-population, conditions in the entire Orient are basically
the same, prudential checks and rational birth-control being everywhere virtually absent.[272]
Remembering also that, besides over-population, there are other economic and social evils previously
discussed, we cannot be surprised to find in all Eastern lands much acute poverty and social
degradation.

Both the rural and urban masses usually live on the bare margin of subsistence. The English
economist Brailsford thus describes the condition of the Egyptian peasantry: "The villages
exhibited a poverty such as I have never seen even in the mountains of anarchical Macedonia
or among the bogs of Donegal.... The villages are crowded slums of mud hovels, without a tree,
a flower, or a garden. The huts, often without a window or a levelled floor, are minute dungeons
of baked mud, usually of two small rooms neither whitewashed nor carpeted. Those which I entered
were bare of any visible property, save a few cooking utensils, a mat to serve as a bed, and
a jar which held the staple food of maize."[273] As for the poorer Indian peasants, a British
sanitary official thus depicts their mode of life: "One has actually to see the interior of
the houses, in which each family is often compelled to live in a single small cell, made of
mud walls and with a mud floor; containing small yards littered with rubbish, often crowded
with cattle; possessing wells permeated by rain soaking through this filthy surface; and frequently
jumbled together in inchoate masses called towns and cities."[274]

In the cities, indeed, conditions are even worse than in the country, the slums of the Orient
surpassing the slums of the West. The French publicist Louis Bertrand paints positively nauseating
pictures of the poorer quarters of the great Levantine towns like Cairo, Constantinople, and
Jerusalem. Omitting his more poignant details, here is his description of a Cairo tenement:
"In Cairo, as elsewhere in Egypt, the wretchedness and grossness of the poorer-class dwellings
are perhaps even more shocking than in the other Eastern lands. Two or three dark, airless
rooms usually open on a hall-way not less obscure. The plaster, peeling off from the ceilings
and the worm-eaten laths of the walls, falls constantly to the filthy floors. The straw mats
and bedding are infested by innumerable vermin."[275]

In India it is the same story. Says Fisher: "Even before the growth of her industries had begun,
the cities of India presented a baffling housing problem. Into the welter of crooked streets
and unsanitary habits of an Oriental city these great industrial plants are wedging their thousands
of employees. Working from before dawn until after dark, men and women are too exhausted to
go far from the plant to sleep, if they can help it. When near-by houses are jammed to suffocation,
they live and sleep in the streets. In Calcutta, twenty years ago,[276] land had reached $200,000
an acre in the overcrowded tenement districts."[277] Of Calcutta, a Western writer remarks:
"Calcutta is a shame even in the East. In its slums, mill hands and dock coolies do not live;
they pig. Houses choke with unwholesome breath; drains and compounds fester in filth. Wheels
compress decaying refuse in the roads; cows drink from wells soaked with sewage, and the floors
of bakeries are washed in the same pollution."[278] In the other industrial centres of India,
conditions are practically the same. A Bombay native sanitary official stated in a report on
the state of the tenement district, drawn up in 1904: "In such houses--the breeders of germs
and bacilli, the centres of disease and poverty, vice, and crime--have people of all kinds,
the diseased, the dissolute, the drunken, the improvident, been indiscriminately herded and
tightly packed in vast hordes to dwell in close association with each other."[279]

Furthermore, urban conditions seem to be getting worse rather than better. The problem of congestion,
in particular, is assuming ever graver proportions. Already in the opening years of the present
century the congestion in the great industrial centres of India like Calcutta, Bombay, and
Lucknow averaged three or four times the congestion of London. And the late war has rendered
the housing crisis even more acute. In the East, as in the West, the war caused a rapid drift
of population to the cities and at the same time stopped building owing to the prohibitive
cost of construction. Hence, a prodigious rise in rents and a plague of landlord profiteering.
Says Fisher: "Rents were raised as much as 300 per cent., enforced by eviction. Mass-meetings
of protest in Bombay resulted in government action, fixing maximum rents for some of the tenements
occupied by artisans and labourers. Setting maximum rental does not, however, make more room."[280]

And, of course, it must not be forgotten that higher rents are only one phase in a general
rise in the cost of living that has been going on in the East for a generation and which has
been particularly pronounced since 1914. More than a decade ago Bertrand wrote of the Near
East: "From one end of the Levant to the other, at Constantinople as at Smyrna, Damascus, Beyrout,
and Cairo, I heard the same complaints about the increasing cost of living; and these complaints
were uttered by Europeans as well as by the natives."[281] To-day the situation is even more
difficult. Says Sir Valentine Chirol of conditions in Egypt since the war: "The rise in wages,
considerable as it has been, has ceased to keep pace with the inordinate rise in prices for
the very necessities of life. This is particularly the case in the urban centres, where the
lower classes--workmen, carters, cab-drivers, shopkeepers, and a host off minor employees--are
hard put to it nowadays to make both ends meet."[282] As a result of all these hard conditions
various phenomena of social degradation such as alcoholism, vice, and crime, are becoming increasingly
common.[283] Last--but not least--there are growing symptoms of social unrest and revolutionary
agitation, which we will examine in the next chapter.

FOOTNOTES:

[239] I. e. the educated upper class.

[241] I. e. the priestly class.

[244] Bukhsh, Essays: Indian and Islamic, pp. 221-226.

[245] Bukhsh, Essays: Indian and Islamic, p. 240.

[246] The purdah is the curtain separating the women's apartments from the rest of the house.

[247] Bukhsh, Essays: Indian and Islamic, pp. 254-255.

[248] For progress in Western education in the Orient, under both European and native auspices,
see L. Bertrand, Le Mirage oriental, pp. 291-392; C. S. Cooper, The Modernizing of the Orient,
pp. 3-13, 24-64.

[249] In his Introduction to Sir Valentine Chirol's Indian Unrest, p. xii.

[251] J. D. Rees, The Real India, p. 162 (London, 1908).

[252] Vambéry, Western Culture in Eastern Lands, pp. 203-204.

[253] H. E. Compton, Indian Life in Town and Country, p. 98 (London, 1904).

[255] Cooper, op. cit., pp. 48-49.

[256] On this point of comfort v. luxury, see especially Sir Bampfylde Fuller, "East and West:
A Study of Differences," Nineteenth Century and After, November, 1911.

[257] L. Bertrand, op. cit., 145-147; J. Chailley, Administrative Problems of British India,
pp. 138-139.

[258] For higher cost of living in the East, see Chirol, Indian Unrest, pp. 2-3; Fisher, India's
Silent Revolution, pp. 46-60; Jones, op. cit.; T. T. Williams, "Inquiry into the Rise of Prices
in India," Economic Journal, December, 1915.

[259] Brown, op. cit.

[260] At the beginning of the nineteenth century the population of India is roughly estimated
to have been about 100,000,000. According to the census of 1911 the population was 315,000,000.

[261] Sir W. W. Hunter, The India of the Queen and Other Essays, p. 42 (London, 1903).

[262] Cromer, "Some Problems of Government in Europe and Asia," Nineteenth Century and After,
May, 1913.

[263] Archer, India and the Future, pp. 157, 162 (London), 1918.

[264] P. K. Wattal, of the Indian Finance Department, Assistant Accountant-General. The book
was published at Bombay, 1916.

[265] Wattal, pp. i-iii.

[266] Wattal, p. 3.

[267] Ibid., p. 12.

[268] Wattal, p. 14.

[269] Ibid., pp. 19-21.

[270] Wattal, p. 28.

[271] Ibid., p. 82.

[272] For conditions in the Near East, see Bertrand, pp. 110, 124, 125-128.

[273] H. N. Brailsford, The War of Steel and Gold, pp. 112-113.

[274] Dr. D. Ross, "Wretchedness a Cause of Political Unrest," The Survey, February 18, 1911.

[275] Bertrand, op. cit., pp. 111-112.

[276] I. e., in 1900.

[277] Fisher, India's Silent Revolution, p. 51.

[278] G. W. Stevens, In India. Quoted by Fisher, p. 51.

[279] Dr. Bhalchandra Krishna. Quoted by A. Yusuf Ali, Life and Labour in India, p. 35 (London,
1907).

[280] Fisher, pp. 51-52.

[281] Bertrand, p. 141.

[282] Sir V. Chirol, "England's Peril in Egypt," from the London Times, 1919.

[283] See Bertrand and Fisher, supra.

CHAPTER IX

SOCIAL UNREST AND BOLSHEVISM

Unrest is the natural concomitant of change--particularly of sudden change. Every break with
past, however normal and inevitable, implies a necessity for readjustment to altered conditions
which causes a temporary sense of restless disharmony until the required adjustment has been
made. Unrest is not an exceptional phenomenon; it is always latent in every human society which
has not fallen into complete stagnation, and a slight amount of unrest should be considered
a sign of healthy growth rather than a symptom of disease. In fact, the minimum degrees of
unrest are usually not called by that name, but are considered mere incidents of normal development.
Under normal circumstances, indeed, the social organism functions like the human organism:
it is being incessantly destroyed and as incessantly renewed in conformity with the changing
conditions of life. These changes are sometimes very considerable, but they are so gradual
that they are effected almost without being perceived. A healthy organism well attuned to its
environment is always plastic. It instinctively senses environmental changes and adapts itself
so rapidly that it escapes the injurious consequences of disharmony.

Far different is the character of unrest's acuter manifestations. These are infallible symptoms
of sweeping changes, sudden breaks with the past, and profound maladjustments which are not
being rapidly rectified. In other words, acute unrest denotes social ill-health and portends
the possibility of one of those violent crises known as "revolutions."

The history of the Moslem East well exemplifies the above generalizations. The formative period
of Saracenic civilization was characterized by rapid change and an intense idealistic ferment.
The great "Motazelite" movement embraced many shades of thought, its radical wing professing
religious, political, and social doctrines of a violent revolutionary nature. But this changeful
period was superficial and brief. Arab vigour and the Islamic spirit proved unable permanently
to leaven the vast inertia of the ancient East. Soon the old traditions reasserted themselves--somewhat
modified, to be sure, yet basically the same Saracenic civilization became stereotyped, ossified,
and with this ossification changeful unrest died away. Here and there the radical tradition
was preserved and secretly handed down by a few obscure sects like the Kharidjites of Inner
Arabia and the Bettashi dervishes; but these were mere cryptic episodes, of no general significance.

With the Mohammedan Revival at the beginning of the nineteenth century, however, symptoms of
social unrest appeared once more. Wahabism aimed not merely at a reform of religious abuses
but was also a general protest against the contemporary decadence of Moslem society. In many
cases it took the form of a popular revolt against established governments. The same was true
of the correlative Babbist movement in Persia, which took place about the same time.[284]

And of course these nascent stirrings were greatly stimulated by the flood of Western ideas
and methods which, as the nineteenth century wore on, increasingly permeated the East. What,
indeed, could be more provocative of unrest of every description than the resulting transformation
of the Orient--a transformation so sudden, so intense, and necessitating so concentrated a
process of adaptation that it was basically revolutionary rather than evolutionary in its nature?
The details of these profound changes--political, religious, economic, social--we have already
studied, together with the equally profound disturbance, bewilderment, and suffering afflicting
all classes in this eminently transition period.

The essentially revolutionary nature of this transition period, as exemplified by India, is
well described by a British economist.[285] What, he asks, could be more anachronistic than
the contrast between rural and urban India? "Rural India is primitive or mediæval; city India
is modern." In city India you will find every symbol of Western life, from banks and factories
down to the very "sandwichmen that you left in the London gutters." Now all this co-exists
beside rural India. "And it is surely a fact unique in economic history that they should thus
exist side by side. The present condition of India does not correspond with any period of European
economic history." Imagine the effect in Europe of setting down modern and mediæval men together,
with utterly disparate ideas. That has not happened in Europe because "European progress in
the economic world has been evolutionary"; a process spread over centuries. In India, on the
other hand, this economic transformation has been "revolutionary" in character.

How unevolutionary is India's economic transformation is seen by the condition of rural India.

"Rural India, though chiefly characterized by primitive usage, has been invaded by ideas that
are intensely hostile to the old state of things It is primitive, but not consistently primitive.
Competitive wages are paid side by side with customary wages. Prices are sometimes fixed by
custom, but sometimes, too, by free economic causes. From the midst of a population deeply
rooted in the soil, men are being carried away by the desire of better wages. In short, economic
motives have suddenly and partially intruded themselves in the realm of primitive morality.
And, if we turn to city India, we see a similar, though inverted, state of things.... In neither
case has the mixture been harmonious or the fusion complete. Indeed, the two orders are too
unrelated, too far apart, to coalesce with ease....

"India, then, is in a state of economic revolution throughout all the classes of an enormous
and complex society. The only period in which Europe offered even faint analogies to modern
India was the Industrial Revolution, from which even now we have not settled down into comparative
stability. We may reckon it as a fortunate circumstance for Europe that the intellectual movement
which culminated in the French Revolution did not coincide with the Industrial Revolution.
If it had, it is possible that European society might have been hopelessly wrecked. But, as
it was, even when the French Revolution had spent its force in the conquests of Napoleon, the
Industrial Revolution stirred up enough social and political discontent. When whole classes
of people are obliged by economic revolution to change their mode of life, it is inevitable
that many should suffer. Discontent is roused. Political and destructive movements are certain
to ensue. Not only the Revolutions of '48, but also the birth of the Socialist Party sprang
from the Industrial Revolution.

"But that revolution was not nearly so sweeping as that which is now in operation in India.
The invention of machinery and steam-power was, in Europe, but the crowning event of a long
series of years in which commerce and industry had been constantly expanding, in which capital
had been largely accumulated, in which economic principles had been gradually spreading....
No, the Indian economic revolution is vastly greater and more fundamental than our Industrial
Revolution, great as that was. Railways have been built through districts where travel was
almost impossible, and even roads are unknown. Factories have been built, and filled by men
unused to industrial labour. Capital has been poured into the country, which was unprepared
for any such development. And what are the consequences? India's social organization is being
dissolved. The Brahmins are no longer priests. The ryot is no longer bound to the soil. The
banya is no longer the sole purveyor of capital. The hand-weaver is threatened with extinction,
and the brass-worker can no longer ply his craft. Think of the dislocation which this sudden
change has brought about, of the many who can no longer follow their ancestral vocations, of
the commotion which a less profound change produced in Europe, and you will understand what
is the chief motive-power of the political unrest. It is small wonder. The wonder is that the
unrest has been no greater than it is. Had India not been an Asiatic country, she would have
been in fierce revolution long ago."

The above lines were of course written in the opening years of the twentieth century, before
the world had been shattered by Armageddon and aggressive social revolution had established
itself in semi-Asiatic Russia. But even during those pre-war years, other students of the Orient
were predicting social disturbances of increasing gravity. Said the Hindu nationalist leader,
Bipin Chandra Pal: "This so-called unrest is not really political. It is essentially an intellectual
and spiritual upheaval, the forerunner of a mighty social revolution, with a new organon and
a new philosophy of life behind it."[286] And the French publicist Chailley wrote of India:
"There will be a series of economic revolutions, which must necessarily produce suffering and
struggle."[287]

During this pre-war period the increased difficulty of living conditions, together with the
adoption of Western ideas of comfort and kindred higher standards, seem to have been engendering
friction between the different strata of the Oriental population. In 1911 a British sanitary
expert assigned "wretchedness" as the root-cause of India's political unrest. After describing
the deplorable living conditions of the Indian masses, he wrote: "It will of course be said
at once that these conditions have existed in India from time immemorial, and are no more likely
to cause unrest now than previously; but in my opinion unrest has always existed there in a
subterranean form. Moreover, in the old days, the populace could make scarcely any comparison
between their own condition and that of more fortunate people; now they can compare their own
slums and terrible 'native quarters' with the much better ordered cantonments, stations, and
houses of the British officials and even of their own wealthier brethren. So far as I can see,
such misery is always the fundamental cause of all popular unrest.... Seditious meetings, political
chatter, and 'aspirations' of babus and demagogues are only the superficial manifestations
of the deeper disturbance."[288]

This growing social friction was indubitably heightened by the lack of interest of Orientals
in the sufferings of all persons not bound to them by family, caste, or customary ties. Throughout
the East, "social service," in the Western sense, is practically unknown. This fact is noted
by a few Orientals themselves. Says an Indian writer, speaking of Indian town life: "There
is no common measure of social conduct.... Hitherto, social reform in India has taken account
only of individual or family life. As applied to mankind in the mass, and especially to those
soulless agglomerations of seething humanity which we call cities, it is a gospel yet to be
preached."[289] As an American sociologist remarked of the growing slum evil throughout the
industrialized Orient: "The greatest danger is due to the fact that Orientals do not have the
high Western sense of the value of the life of the individual, and are, comparatively speaking,
without any restraining influence similar to our own enlightened public opinion, which has
been roused by the struggles of a century of industrial strife. Unless these elements can be
supplied, there is danger of suffering and of abuses worse than any the West has known."[290]

All this diffused social unrest was centring about two recently emerged elements: the Western-educated
intelligentsia and the industrial proletariat of the factory towns. The revolutionary tendencies
of the intelligentsia, particularly of its half-educated failures, have been already noted,
and these latter have undoubtedly played a leading part in all the revolutionary disturbances
of the modern Orient, from North Africa to China.[291] Regarding the industrial proletariat,
some writers think that there is little immediate likelihood of their becoming a major revolutionary
factor, because of their traditionalism, ignorance, and apathy, and also because there is no
real connection between them and the intelligentsia, the other centre of social discontent.

The French economist Métin states this view-point very well. Speaking primarily of India, he
writes: "The Nationalist movement rises from the middle classes and manifests no systematic
hostility toward the capitalists and great proprietors; in economic matters it is on their
side."[292] As for the proletariat: "The coolies do not imagine that their lot can be bettered.
Like the ryots and the agricultural labourers, they do not show the least sign of revolt. To
whom should they turn? The ranks of traditional society are closed to them. People without
caste, the coolies are despised even by the old-style artisan, proud of his caste-status, humble
though that be. To fall to the job of a coolie is, for the Hindu, the worst declassment. The
factory workers are not yet numerous enough to form a compact and powerful proletariat, able
to exert pressure on the old society. Even if they do occasionally strike, they are as far
from the modern Trade-Union as they are from the traditional working-caste. Neither can they
look for leadership to the 'intellectual proletariat'; for the Nationalist movement has not
emerged from the 'bourgeois' phase, and always leans on the capitalists....

"Thus Indian industry is still in its embryonic stages. In truth, the material evolution which
translates itself by the construction of factories, and the social evolution which creates
a proletariat, have only begun to emerge; while the intellectual evolution from which arise
the programmes of social demands has not even begun."[293]

Other observers of Indian industrial conditions, however, do not share M. Métin's opinion.
Says the British Labour leader, J. Ramsay Macdonald: "To imagine the backward Indian labourers
becoming a conscious regiment in the class war, seems to be one of the vainest dreams in which
a Western mind can indulge. But I sometimes wonder if it be so very vain after all. In the
first place, the development of factory industry in India has created a landless and homeless
proletariat unmatched by the same economic class in any other capitalist community; and to
imagine that this class is to be kept out, or can be kept out, of Indian politics is far more
vain than to dream of its developing a politics on Western lines. Further than that, the wage-earners
have shown a willingness to respond to Trades-Union methods; they are forming industrial associations
and have engaged in strikes; some of the social reform movements conducted by Indian intellectuals
definitely try to establish Trades-Unions and preach ideas familiar to us in connection with
Trades-Union propaganda. A capitalist fiscal policy will not only give this movement a great
impetus as it did in Japan, but in India will not be able to suppress the movement, as was
done in Japan, by legislation. As yet, the true proletarian wage-earner, uprooted from his
native village and broken away from the organization of Indian society, is but insignificant.
It is growing, however, and I believe that it will organize itself rapidly on the general lines
of the proletarian classes of other capitalist countries. So soon as it becomes politically
conscious, there are no other lines upon which it can organize itself."[294]

Turning to the Near East--more than a decade ago a French Socialist writer, observing the hard
living conditions of the Egyptian masses, noted signs of social unrest and predicted grave
disturbances. "A genuine proletariat," he wrote, "has been created by the multiplication of
industries and the sudden, almost abrupt, progress which has followed. The cost of living has
risen to a scale hitherto unknown in Egypt, while wages have risen but slightly. Poverty and
want abound. Some day suffering will provoke the people to complaints, perhaps to angry outbursts,
throughout this apparently prosperous Delta. It is true that the influx of foreigners and of
money may put off the hour when the city or country labourer of Egyptian race comes clearly
to perceive the wrongs that are being done to him. He may miss the educational influence of
Socialism. Yet such an awakening may come sooner than people expect. It is not only among the
successful and prosperous Egyptians that intelligence is to be found. Those whose wages are
growing gradually smaller and smaller have intelligence of equal keenness, and it has become
a real question as to the hour when for the first time in the land of Islam the flame of Mohammedan
Socialism shall burst forth."[295] In Algeria, likewise, a Belgian traveller noted the dawning
of a proletarian consciousness among the town working-men just before the Great War. Speaking
of the rapid spread of Western ideas, he wrote: "Islam tears asunder like rotten cloth on the
quays of Algiers: the dockers, coal-passers, and engine-tenders, to whatever race they belong,
leave their Islam and acquire a genuine proletarian morality, that of the proletarians of Europe,
and they make common cause with their European colleagues on the basis of a strictly economic
struggle. If there were many big factories in Algeria, orthodox Islam would soon disappear
there, as old-fashioned Catholicism has disappeared with us under the shock of great industry."[296]

Whatever may be the prospects as to the rapid emergence of organized labour movements in the
Orient, one thing seems certain: the unrest which afflicted so many parts of the East in the
years preceding the Great War, though mainly political, had also its social side. Toward the
end of 1913, a leading Anglo-Indian journal remarked pessimistically: "We have already gone
so far on the downward path that leads to destruction that there are districts in what were
once regarded as the most settled parts of India which are being abandoned by the rich because
their property is not safe. So great is the contempt for the law that it is employed by the
unscrupulous as a means of offence against the innocent. Frontier Pathans commit outrages almost
unbelievable in their daring. Mass-meetings are held and agitation spreads in regard to topics
quite outside the business of orderly people. There is no matter of domestic or foreign politics
in which crowds of irresponsible people do not want to have their passionate way. Great grievances
are made of little, far-off things. What ought to be the ordered, spacious life of the District
Officer is intruded upon and disturbed by a hundred distracting influences due to the want
of discipline of the people. In the subordinate ranks of the great services themselves, trades-unions
have been formed. Military and police officers have to regret that the new class of recruits
is less subordinate than the old, harder to discipline, more full of complaints."[297]

The Great War of course enormously aggravated Oriental unrest. In many parts of the Near East,
especially, acute suffering, balked ambitions, and furious hates combined to reduce society
to the verge of chaos. Into this ominous turmoil there now came the sinister influence of Russian
Bolshevism, marshalling all this diffused unrest by systematic methods for definite ends. Bolshevism
was frankly out for a world-revolution and the destruction of Western civilization. To attain
this objective the Bolshevist leaders not only launched direct assaults on the West, but also
planned flank attacks in Asia and Africa. They believed that if the East could be set on fire,
not only would Russian Bolshevism gain vast additional strength but also the economic repercussion
on the West, already shaken by the war, would be so terrific that industrial collapse would
ensue, thereby throwing Europe open to revolution.

Bolshevism's propagandist efforts were nothing short of universal, both in area and in scope.
No part of the world was free from the plottings of its agents; no possible source of discontent
was overlooked. Strictly "Red" doctrines like the dictatorship of the proletariat were very
far from being the only weapons in Bolshevism's armoury. Since what was first wanted was the
overthrow of the existing world-order, any kind of opposition to that order, no matter how
remote doctrinally from Bolshevism, was grist to the Bolshevist mill. Accordingly, in every
quarter of the globe, in Asia, Africa, Australia, and the Americas, as in Europe, Bolshevik
agitators whispered in the ears of the discontented their gospel of hatred and revenge. Every
nationalist aspiration, every political grievance, every social injustice, every racial discrimination,
was fuel for Bolshevism's incitement to violence and war.[298]

Particularly promising fields for Bolshevist activity were the Near and Middle East. Besides
being a prey to profound disturbances of every description, those regions as traditional objectives
of the old Czarist imperialism, had long been carefully studied by Russian agents who had evolved
a technique of "pacific penetration" that might be easily adjusted to Bolshevist ends. To stir
up political, religious, and racial passions in Turkey, Persia, Afghanistan, and India, especially
against England, required no original planning by Trotzky or Lenin. Czarism had already done
these things for generations, and full information lay both in the Petrograd archives and in
the brains of surviving Czarist agents ready to turn their hands as easily to the new work
as the old.

In all the elaborate network of Bolshevist propaganda which to-day enmeshes the East we must
discriminate between Bolshevism's two objectives: one immediate--the destruction of Western
political and economic supremacy; the other ultimate--the bolshevizing of the Oriental masses
and the consequent extirpation of the native upper and middle classes, precisely as has been
done in Russia and as is planned for the countries of the West. In the first stage, Bolshevism
is quite ready to respect Oriental faiths and customs and to back Oriental nationalist movements.
In the second stage, religions like Islam and nationalists like Mustapha Kemal are to be branded
as "bourgeois" and relentlessly destroyed. How Bolshevik diplomacy endeavours to work these
two schemes in double harness, we shall presently see.

Russian Bolshevism's Oriental policy was formulated soon after its accession to power at the
close of 1917. The year 1918 was a time of busy preparation. An elaborate propaganda organization
was built up from various sources. A number of old Czarist agents and diplomats versed in Eastern
affairs were cajoled or conscripted into the service. The Russian Mohammedan populations such
as the Tartars of South Russia and the Turkomans of Central Asia furnished many recruits. Even
more valuable were the exiles who flocked to Russia from Turkey, Persia, India, and elsewhere
at the close of the Great War. Practically all the leaders of the Turkish war-government--Enver,
Djemal, Talaat, and many more, fled to Russia for refuge from the vengeance of the victorious
Entente Powers. The same was true of the Hindu terrorist leaders who had been in German pay
during the war and who now sought service under Lenin. By the end of 1918 Bolshevism's Oriental
propaganda department was well organized, divided into three bureaux, for the Islamic countries,
India, and the Far East respectively. With Bolshevism's Far Eastern activities this book is
not concerned, though the reader should bear them in mind and should remember the important
part played by the Chinese in recent Russian history. As for the Islamic and Indian bureaux,
they displayed great zeal, translating tons of Bolshevik literature into the various Oriental
languages, training numerous secret agents and propagandists for "field-work," and getting
in touch with all disaffected or revolutionary elements.

With the opening months of 1919 Bolshevist activity throughout the Near and Middle East became
increasingly apparent. The wave of rage and despair caused by the Entente's denial of Near
Eastern nationalist aspirations[299] played splendidly into the Bolshevists' hands, and we
have already seen how Moscow supported Mustapha Kemal and other nationalist leaders in Turkey,
Persia, Egypt, and elsewhere. In the Middle East, also, Bolshevism gained important successes.
Not merely was Moscow's hand visible in the epidemic of rioting and seditious violence which
swept northern India in the spring of 1919,[300] but an even shrewder blow was struck at Britain
in Afghanistan. This land of turbulent mountaineers, which lay like a perpetual thundercloud
on India's north-west frontier, had kept quiet during the Great War, mainly owing to the Anglophile
attitude of its ruler, the Ameer Habibullah Khan. But early in 1919 Habibullah was murdered.
Whether the Bolsheviki had a hand in the matter is not known, but they certainly reaped the
benefit, for power passed to one of Habibullah's sons, Amanullah Khan, who was an avowed enemy
of England and who had had dealings with Turco-German agents during the late war. Amanullah
at once got in touch with Moscow, and a little later, just when the Punjab was seething with
unrest, he declared war on England, and his wild tribesmen, pouring across the border, set
the North-West Frontier on fire. After some hard fighting the British succeeded in repelling
the Afghan invasion, and Amanullah was constrained to make peace. But Britain obviously dared
not press Amanullah too hard, for in the peace treaty the Ameer was released from his previous
obligation not to maintain diplomatic relations with other nations than British India. Amanullah
promptly aired his independence by maintaining ostentatious relations with Moscow. As a matter
of fact, the Bolsheviki had by this time established an important propagandist subcentre in
Russian Turkestan, not far from the Afghan border, and this bureau's activities of course envisaged
not merely Afghanistan but the wider field of India as well.[301]

During 1920 Bolshevik activities became still more pronounced throughout the Near and Middle
East. We have already seen how powerfully Bolshevik Russia supported the Turkish and Persian
nationalist movements. In fact, the reckless short-sightedness of Entente policy was driving
into Lenin's arms multitudes of nationalists to whom the internationalist theories of Moscow
were personally abhorrent. For example, the head of the Afghan mission to Moscow thus frankly
expressed his reasons for friendship with Soviet Russia, in an interview printed by the official
Soviet organ, Izvestia: "I am neither Communist nor Socialist, but my political programme so
far is the expulsion of the English from Asia. I am an irreconcilable enemy of European capitalism
in Asia, the chief representatives of which are the English. On this point I coincide with
the Communists, and in this respect we are your natural allies.... Afghanistan, like India,
does not represent a capitalist state, and it is very unlikely that even a parliamentary régime
will take deep root in these countries. It is so far difficult to say how subsequent events
will develop. I only know that the renowned address of the Soviet Government to all nations,
with its appeal to them to combat capitalists (and for us a capitalist is synonymous with the
word foreigner, or, to be more exact, an Englishman), had an enormous effect on us. A still
greater effect was produced by Russia's annulment of all the secret treaties enforced by the
imperialistic governments, and by the proclaiming of the right of all nations, no matter how
small, to determine their own destiny. This act rallied around Soviet Russia all the exploited
nationalities of Asia, and all parties, even those very remote from Socialism." Of course,
knowing what we do of Bolshevik propagandist tactics, we cannot be sure that the Afghan diplomat
ever said the things which the Izvestia relates. But, even if the interview be a fake, the
words put into his mouth express the feelings of vast numbers of Orientals and explain a prime
cause of Bolshevik propagandist successes in Eastern lands.

So successful, indeed, had been the progress of Bolshevik propaganda that the Soviet leaders
now began to work openly for their ultimate ends. At first Moscow had posed as the champion
of Oriental "peoples" against Western "imperialism"; its appeals had been to "peoples," irrespective
of class; and it had promised "self-determination," with full respect for native ideas and
institutions. For instance: a Bolshevist manifesto to the Turks signed by Lenin and issued
toward the close of 1919 read: "Mussulmans of the world, victims of the capitalists, awake!
Russia has abandoned the Czar's pernicious policy toward you and offers to help you overthrow
English tyranny. She will allow you freedom of religion and self-government. The frontiers
existing before the war will be respected, no Turkish territory will be given Armenia, the
Dardanelles Straits will remain yours, and Constantinople will remain the capital of the Mussulman
world. The Mussulmans in Russia will be given self-government. All we ask in exchange is that
you fight the reckless capitalists, who would exploit your country and make it a colony." Even
when addressing its own people, the Soviet Government maintained the same general tone. An
"Order of the Day" to the Russian troops stationed on the borders of India stated: "Comrades
of the Pamir division, you have been given a responsible task. The Soviet Republic sends you
to garrison the posts on the Pamir, on the frontiers of the friendly countries of Afghanistan
and India. The Pamir tableland divides revolutionary Russia from India, which, with its 300,000,000
inhabitants, is enslaved by a handful of Englishmen. On this tableland the signallers of revolution
must hoist the red flag of the army of liberation. May the peoples of India, who fight against
their English oppressors, soon know that friendly help is not far off. Make yourselves at home
with the liberty-loving tribes of northern India, promote by word and deed their revolutionary
progress, refute the mass of calumnies spread about Soviet Russia by agents of the British
princes, lords, and bankers. Long live the alliance of the revolutionary peoples of Europe
and Asia!"

Such was the nature of first-stage Bolshevik propaganda. Presently, however, propaganda of
quite a different character began to appear. This second-stage propaganda of course continued
to assail Western "capitalist imperialism." But alongside, or rather intermingled with, these
anti-Western, fulminations, there now appeared special appeals to the Oriental masses, inciting
them against all "capitalists" and "bourgeois," native as well as foreign, and promising the
"proletarians" remedies for all their ills. Here is a Bolshevist manifesto to the Turkish masses,
published in the summer of 1920. It is very different from the manifestoes of a year before.
"The men of toil," says this interesting document, "are now struggling everywhere against the
rich people. These people, with the assistance of the aristocracy and their hirelings, are
now trying to hold Turkish toilers in their chains. It is the rich people of Europe who have
brought suffering to Turkey. Comrades, let us make common cause with the world's toilers. If
we do not do so we shall never rise again. Let the heroes of Turkey's revolution join Bolshevism.
Long live the Third International! Praise be to Allah!"

And in these new efforts Moscow was not content with words; it was passing to deeds as well.
The first application of Bolshevism to an Eastern people was in Russian Turkestan. When the
Bolsheviki first came to power at the end of 1917 they had granted Turkestan full "self-determination,"
and the inhabitants had acclaimed their native princes and re-established their old state-units,
subject to a loose federative tie with Russia. Early in 1920, however, the Soviet Government
considered Turkestan ripe for the "Social Revolution." Accordingly, the native princes were
deposed, all political power was transferred to local Soviets (controlled by Russians), the
native upper and middle classes were despoiled of their property, and sporadic resistance was
crushed by mass-executions, torture, and other familiar forms of Bolshevist terrorism.[302]
In the Caucasus, also, the social revolution had begun with the Sovietization of Azerbaidjan.
The Tartar republic of Azerbaidjan was one of the fragments of the former Russian province
of Transcaucasia which had declared its independence on the collapse of the Czarist Empire
in 1917. Located in eastern Transcaucasia, about the Caspian Sea, Azerbaidjan's capital was
the city of Baku, famous for its oil-fields. Oil had transformed Baku into an industrial centre
on Western lines, with a large working population of mixed Asiatic and Russian origin. Playing
upon the nascent class-consciousness of this urban proletariat, the Bolshevik agents made a
coup d'état in the spring of 1920, overthrew the nationalist government, and, with prompt Russian
backing, made Azerbaijan a Soviet republic. The usual accompaniments of the social revolution
followed: despoiling and massacring of the upper and middle classes, confiscation of property
in favour of the town proletarians and agricultural labourers, and ruthless terrorism. With
the opening months of 1920, Bolshevism was thus in actual operation in both the Near and Middle
East.[303]

Having acquired strong footholds in the Orient, Bolshevism now felt strong enough to throw
off the mask. In the autumn of 1920, the Soviet Government of Russia held a "Congress of Eastern
Peoples" at Baku, the aim of which was not merely the liberation of the Orient from Western
control but its Bolshevizing as well. No attempt at concealment of this larger objective was
made, and so striking was the language employed that it may well merit our close attention.

In the first place, the call to the congress, issued by the Third (Moscow) International, was
addressed to the "peasants and workers" of the East. The summons read:

"Peasants and workers of Persia! The Teheran Government of the Khadjars and its retinue of
provincial Khans have plundered and exploited you through many centuries. The land, which,
according to the laws of the Sheriat, was your common property, has been taken possession of
more and more by the lackeys of the Teheran Government; they trade it away at their pleasure;
they lay what taxes please them upon you; and when, through their mismanagement, they got the
country into such a condition that they were unable to squeeze enough juice out of it themselves,
they sold Persia last year to English capitalists for 2,000,000 pounds, so that the latter
will organize an army in Persia that will oppress you still more than formerly, and so the
latter can collect taxes for the Khans and the Teheran Government. They have sold the oil-wells
in South Persia and thus helped plunder the country.

"Peasants of Mesopotamia! The English have declared your country to be independent; but 80,000
English soldiers are stationed in your country, are robbing and plundering, are killing you
and are violating your women.

"Peasants of Anatolia! The English, French, and Italian Governments hold Constantinople under
the mouths of their cannon. They have made the Sultan their prisoner, they are obliging him
to consent to the dismemberment of what is purely Turkish territory, they are forcing him to
turn the country's finances over to foreign capitalists in order to make it possible for them
better to exploit the Turkish people, already reduced to a state of beggary by the six-year
war. They have occupied the coal-mines of Heraclea, they are holding your ports, they are sending
their troops into your country and are trampling down your fields.

"Peasants and workers of Armenia! Decades ago you became the victims of the intrigues of foreign
capital, which launched heavy verbal attacks against the massacres of the Armenians by the
Kurds and incited you to fight against the Sultan in order to obtain through your blood new
concessions and fresh profits daily from the bloody Sultan. During the war they not only promised
you independence, but they incited your merchants, your teachers, and your priests to demand
the land of the Turkish peasants in order to keep up an eternal conflict between the Armenian
and Turkish peoples, so that they could eternally derive profits out of this conflict, for
as long as strife prevails between you and the Turks, just so long will the English, French,
and American capitalists be able to hold Turkey in check through the menace of an Armenian
uprising and to use the Armenians as cannon-fodder through the menace of a pogrom by Kurds.

"Peasants of Syria and Arabia! Independence was promised to you by the English and the French,
and now they hold your country occupied by their armies, now the English and the French dictate
your laws, and you, who have freed yourselves from the Turkish Sultan, from the Constantinople
Government, are now slaves of the Paris and London Governments, which merely differ from the
Sultan's Government in being stronger and better able to exploit you.

"You all understand this yourselves. The Persian peasants and workers have risen against their
traitorous Teheran Government. The peasants in Mesopotamia are in revolt against the English
troops. You peasants in Anatolia have rushed to the banner of Kemal Pasha in order to fight
against the foreign invasion, but at the same time we hear that you are trying to organize
your own party, a genuine peasants' party that will be willing to fight even if the Pashas
are to make their peace with the Entente exploiters. Syria has no peace, and you, Armenian
peasants, whom the Entente, despite its promises, allows to die from hunger in order to keep
you under better control, you are understanding more and more that it is silly to hope for
salvation by the Entente capitalists. Even your bourgeois Government of the Dashnakists, the
lackeys of the Entente, is compelled to turn to the Workers' and Peasants' Government of Russia
with an appeal for peace and help.

"Peasants and workers of the Near East! If you organize yourselves, if you form your own Workers'
and Peasants' Government, if you arm yourselves, if you unite with the Red Russian Workers'
and Peasants' Army, then you will be able to defy the English, French, and American capitalists,
then you will settle accounts with your own native exploiters, then you will find it possible,
in a free alliance with the workers' republics of the world, to look after your own interests;
then you will know how to exploit the resources of your country in your own interest and in
the interest of the working people of the whole world, that will honestly exchange the products
of their labour and mutually help each other.

"We want to talk over all these questions with you at the Congress in Baku. Spare no effort
to appear in Baku on September 1 in as large numbers as possible. You march, year in and year
out, through the deserts to the holy places where you show your respect for your past and for
your God--now march through deserts, over mountains, and across rivers in order to come together
to discuss how you can escape from the bonds of slavery, how you can unite as brothers so as
to live as men, free and equal."

From this summons the nature of the Baku congress can be imagined. It was, in fact, a social
revolutionist far more than a nationalist assembly. Of its 1900 delegates, nearly 1300 were
professed communists. Turkey, Persia, Armenia, and the Caucasus countries sent the largest
delegations, though there were also delegations from Arabia, India, and even the Far East.
The Russian Soviet Government was of course in control and kept a tight hand on the proceedings.
The character of these proceedings were well summarized by the address of the noted Bolshevik
leader Zinoviev, president of the Executive Committee of the Third (Moscow) International,
who presided.

Zinoviev said:

"We believe this Congress to be one of the greatest events in history, for it proves not only
that the progressive workers and working peasants of Europe and America are awakened, but that
we have at last seen the day of the awakening, not of a few, but of tens of thousands, of hundreds
of thousands, of millions of the labouring class of the peoples of the East. These peoples
form the majority of the world's whole population, and they alone, therefore, are able to bring
the war between capital and labour to a conclusive decision....

