The view of this church, etched by Mr. Cotman, is copied from a drawing made by Miss Elizabeth
Turner. The plate also exhibits a portion of a circular chapel, now commonly known by the name
of la Chambre des Clercs, the only remaining part of the church built by William Balot, in
the beginning of the twelfth century. This chapel, the south porch, the central tower, and
a specimen of ancient sculpture in the church, have been engraved by Mr. Turner, in his Tour
in Normandy. The two first, of the same subjects, together with the western front, a general
view of the church from the south, the curious bas-relief over the southern entrance, and a
representation of the interior, have since been lithographized in M. Jolimont's Monumens de
la Normandie. Considerable pains have been devoted in both these works, to the description
and the history of the building; and to them the reader must be referred, who is unwilling
to engage with the ponderous folio of Pommeraye.

NOTES:

[172] Milton's Letters on the Fine Arts, written from Paris in the year 1815. p. 183.

[173] Jolimont, from whom this quotation is borrowed, states, that it is to be found in the
chronicle of an author of the name of Fridegode; and he proceeds with the following observations:--"The
expression appears remarkable, as warranting the inference, that the style of architecture,
which Fridegode calls Gothic, was in use in France as early as the commencement of the sixth
century, the time assigned by him for the building of the first church of St. Ouen. But it
is equally to be inferred, from the manner in which he notices it, that this style was not
then common; and his subjoining, that it was made of square stones, (in opposition, most probably,
to rubble) serves to point out that such an edifice was an extraordinary building for Rouen
at that period. This idea receives confirmation, from the reflection, that the materials for
forming the city were originally supplied out of the forests that inclosed it; so that, not
only the houses of individuals, but the public edifices, were merely of wood. St. Gregory of
Tours, speaking, in his fifth book, of a church at Rouen, dedicated to St. Martin, uses the
following expression:--'Quæ super muros civitatis ligneis tabulis fabricata est.'--Indeed,
the few stone-buildings then at Rouen, were almost exclusively devoted to the purposes of fortification,
and were of flint or sand-stone, rather than of free-stone. Every thing too tends to prove
that architecture was then in its infancy in the capital of Neustria; or, if it ever had been
more advanced there, which could have been only under the Roman sway, that it had retrograded
into a barbarous state.--Moreover, the Gothic style, mentioned by Fridegode, was no other than
a degeneration of the Roman, or, more properly, of the Lombardic architecture, distinguished
by the circular arch, by insulated columns, by a paucity of ornaments, and by a general massiveness.
It is by no means to be confounded with the style which has since passed under the same name,
a style introduced about the beginning of the twelfth century, immediately after the crusades,
with its ogee forms, slender clustered columns, and every portion of the building characterized
by extreme lightness, yet still loaded with a profusion of crowded ornaments. If, however,
this Lombardic style was practised as early as the fifth or sixth century, in a town so backward
in the science of architecture as Rouen, what date is to be assigned for its introduction into
other parts of France, where the knowledge of the fine arts disappeared for a much shorter
period?--It must be left to the decision of antiquaries, whom this passage in Fridegode seems
to have escaped, to determine how far the foregoing observations are just, and may serve to
throw light upon the history of the style of architecture called Gothic, the origin of which
in France has always been attended with great obscurity."

[174] St. Ouen was born A.D. 600, at the village of Sanci, near Soissons. He was of a noble
family, and was educated in the abbey of St. Médar, at Soissons, whence he was removed, at
an early age, to the court of Clothair II. At the court, he contracted an intimate friendship
with St. Eloi; and, under Dagobert, became the favorite of the monarch, as well as his chancellor
and minister of state. During the whole of his life, his strong turn to religion rendered him
a warm patron of monastic establishments; and, among others, he founded the celebrated abbey
of Rebais en Brie. He was still young when he renounced the world, embraced the ecclesiastical
state, and devoted himself to the preaching of the gospel; shortly after which, at the request
of the inhabitants of Rouen, he was appointed to succeed St. Romain, as their pastor. His consecration
took place in 646, and was performed in the church of the monastery of St. Peter, since-called
St. Ouen. It was also at his own particular desire, that he was there interred. His name occurs
among those of the prelates who were present at the council of Châlons, in 650; he was likewise
entrusted by the king with various important negociations; and, after an earthly career, passed,
according to his historians, in the practice of every civil and apostolic virtue, he died at
Clichy, near Paris, in the year 689.

[175] The following extract from the Neustria Pia, p. 35, bears witness at once to the merits
of the abbot, and the light in which the building was regarded throughout France.--"Hic Abbatiam
reperit bonis omnibus sufficienter munitam, pecunia et commeatu haud indigentem: quam et ipse
sapienter ac religiosè gubernavit, locupletavit, et vehementer adauxit; tum possessionibus
et redditibus, tum ædificiis ac reparationibus: Basilicam iliam admirabili structura compositam,
totiusque Galliæ speciosissimam, construere coepit, anno 1318, die festo S. Urbani; quam continuavit
ad ann. usque 1339, in festo Apostolorum SS. Petri et Pauli: quo in opere expendit 63036 libras
argenti, et quinque solidos Turonensis: (quæ nunc haud posset compleri ædificio pro 663036
libris, etiam aureis) quorum omnium tesserem vetera hujusce domus inclytæ monimenta nunc usque
accuratè continent. De hujusmodi celeberrima æde, sic quidam neotericus verè locutus est. Nunc
est S. Audoeni: cujus mirabilis structura, hodieque dubium relinquit, si alia per Galliam splendidior
et elegantior: Monasterium est tota quidem Europa, celeberrimum, sed Patroni sui sanctitate
magis æstimandum. cui alii adstipulantur. Et hoc, consilio et auxilio D. Caroli, Comitis Valesii:
cui operi Carolus Valesius VI. Rex ann. 1380, dono dedit tria millia librarum ad instantiam
Burgundiæ Ducis, sui patruelis."

PLATE LXXVII.

FOUNTAIN OF THE STONE CROSS, AT ROUEN.[176]

Rouen has long boasted a pre-eminence over the greater part of the cities of France, with respect
to its public fountains. The chalk hills, with which it is surrounded, furnish an abundant
supply of excellent springs; and the waters of these, led into different parts of the town,
contribute in no less a degree to the embellishment of the city, than to the comfort of the
inhabitants. The form of some, and the ornaments of others, are well deserving of attention,
notwithstanding the injuries that have inevitably occurred from time, or the more cruel ones
that have been caused by wanton mutilation. It is upon historical record, that there were several
fountains at Rouen, as early as the twelfth century, but their number, which now exceeds thirty,
received its principal increase towards the beginning of the sixteenth century; and it was
then also that the idea seems first to have been conceived of making, what was originally designed
only for convenience, subservient to beauty. For this new supply of ornamental fountains, Rouen
is indebted to its great benefactor, the Cardinal Georges d'Amboise, who, uniting the Norman
archiepiscopal mitre to the office of prime minister, under Louis XII. was no less able than
he was willing, to render the most essential services to the seat of his spiritual jurisdiction.
It was under the auspices of this archbishop, that the fountain here figured, one of the earliest
of that period, was erected. He caused it to be built in the year 1500. The spot which it occupies,
is the cross-way formed by the union of the streets, called St. Vivien, St. Hilaire, and Coqueraumont,
a spot which, previously to the reign of St. Louis, was not included within the walls of the
town, and which, even at the distance of one hundred years after that time, had not begun to
be inhabited.

So ancient is the practice of placing stone crosses at the junction of roads in the vicinity
of cities, that it would be difficult to assign any probable time for the erection of that
which was replaced by the fountain that still bears its name. The waters of this fountain have
their origin in a spring, which flows at the foot of a hill near the village of St. Léger,
at some distance from Rouen. The execution of the structure unites a happy mixture of boldness
in outline, and delicacy in details: its pyramidal form is graceful. It consists of three stories,
gradually diminishing in height and diameter as they rise, and terminating in a cross, whose
clumsy shape only renders the destruction of that which it replaces the more to be regretted.
The form is octagon throughout; and upon every compartment in each of the stories, is carved,
at a short distance from its base, a narrow cinquefoil-headed arch, surmounted by a triangular
crocketed canopy. But the crockets and finials have been in most instances destroyed. The water
issues from four pipes in the basement. Each of the arches of the lower tier serves as a tabernacle
for a wooden statue of a Madonna, or saint, of wretched execution, a poor substitute for those
that occupied the same niches previously to the troubles of 1792, at which time the religious
character of the fountain marked it out as an object of popular vengeance. It was suffered
to continue in its mutilated and degraded state, from that period till the year 1816, when
the inhabitants of this part of the town undertook to restore it at their own expense. Their
labors have hitherto proceeded no farther than filling the niches afresh with images, and doing
such repairs as were absolutely necessary to keep the whole structure from falling into ruin.
Even by this, however, they have secured themselves the good will of the archbishop, who consecrated
the fountain with great pomp anew, on the 24th of August, 1816.

The resemblance between the Fountain of the Stone Cross, at Rouen, and the monumental crosses
erected in England by King Edward I. to perpetuate the memory of his consort, Eleanor of Castillo,
will not fail to strike the British antiquary. It is more than probable, that the idea of the
former was borrowed from the latter, to which, however, it is very inferior in point of richness
of ornaments, or beauty of execution.

NOTES:

[176] It is right to observe, that the accounts here given of this and the following article,
are little more than a translation, in the second instance materially abridged, of what is
published upon the same subjects, in Jolimont, Monumens de la Normandie.

PLATE LXXVIII.

PALACE OF JUSTICE, AT ROUEN.

The building here figured was, from its foundation, devoted to the purpose of the administration
of justice; and, notwithstanding the many mutilations to which it has at different times been
exposed, it still remains an interesting, and, in the city of Rouen, almost a unique specimen
of the sumptuous architectural taste of the age in which it was erected.

Down to as late a period as the year 1499, there existed in Normandy no stationary court of
judicature; but the execution of the laws was confided to an ambulatory tribunal, established,
according to the chroniclers, by Rollo himself, and known by the name of the Exchequer. The
sittings of this Norman exchequer were commonly held twice a year, in spring and autumn, after
the manner of the ancient parliaments of the French kings; the places of session depending
upon the pleasure of the sovereign, or being determined in general, like the English Aula Regia,
by his presence. The inconveniences attendant upon such a mode of administering justice, became
of course the more heavily felt, in proportion as the country increased in population and civilization.
Accordingly, the states-general of the province, assembled in the last year of the fifteenth
century, under the presidency of the Cardinal d'Amboise, petitioned Louis XII. who was then
upon the throne, to appoint in the metropolis of the duchy a permanent judicature, in the same
manner as had been previously done in others of the principal cities of the realm. The king
was graciously pleased to accede to their request; and, by the words of the royal edict, not
only was the exchequer rendered permanent in the good city of Rouen, but permission was also
granted to the members to hold their sittings in the great hall of the castle, till such time
as a suitable place should be prepared for their reception.

It was on this occasion that the Palace of Justice was built; a piece of ground was selected
for the purpose, that had been known by the name of the Jews' Close, from the time when Philip-Augustus
expelled the children of Israel from France; and the foundations of the new structure were
laid within a few months after the obtaining of the royal sanction. The progress, however,
of the work, was not commensurate, in point of rapidity, with the haste with which it was undertaken;
even in 1506 the labors were not brought to a conclusion, though, in that year, the exchequer
was installed by the king in person, with great pomp, in the new palace. The sitting will long
be memorable in the Norman annals, not only as being the first, but as having been selected
by the sovereign, as an opportunity for bestowing various important favors upon the city and duchy.

The palace, in its present state, is composed of three distinct buildings, erected at different
times, and forming collectively three sides of a parallelogram, whose fourth side is merely
a wall. The court thus enclosed is spacious. One of these buildings, the front in the plate,
goes by the name of the Salle des Procureurs. Its erection was six years anterior to that of
the right-hand building, more properly called the Palace of Justice; and the object in raising
it was, according to the edict of the bailiff upon the occasion, to serve as an exchange to
the merchants, and put a stop to the impious practice of assembling, even upon feast-days,
in the cathedral, for purposes of business. At a subsequent time, this hall was added to the
Palace of Justice, and there was then built to it a chapel, now destroyed, in which mass was
regularly celebrated twice a year,--upon the anniversary of the feast of St. Martin, the day
of the meeting of parliament, and upon Ascension-Day. The service on the first of these days,
went by the name of la messe rouge, because the members always attended in their scarlet robes:
on the second, and more important occasion, it was called la messe de la fierte, being performed
in commemoration of the deliverance of the prisoner, by virtue of the privilege of St. Romain.[177]--The
exterior of the Salle des Procureurs is comparatively simple: the most highly decorated part
of it is the gable, which is flanked by two octangular turrets, ornamented with crocketed pinnacles
and flying buttresses. Below the hall is a prison.

The southern building, erected exclusively for the sittings of the exchequer, is far more sumptuous
in its decorations, both without and within. The lucarne windows may even vie with those in
the house in the Place de la Pucelle.[178] Those below them find almost exact counterparts
in the château at Fontaine-le-Henri, also figured in this work.[179] To use the language of
the French critics, this front, which is more than two hundred feet in width, "est decorée
de tout ce que l'architecture de ce temps-là présente de plus délicat et de plus riche." The
oriel or tower of enriched workmanship, which, by projecting into the court, breaks the uniformity
of the elevation, is perhaps the part that more than any other merits such encomium. But it
is only half the front that has been allowed to continue in its original state: the other half
has been degraded by alterations, or stripped of its ornaments.--The room in which the parliament
formerly met, and which is now employed for the trial of criminal causes, still remains comparatively
uninjured. Its ceiling of oak, nearly as black as ebony, divided into numerous compartments,
and covered with a profusion of carving and of gilt ornaments, not only affords a gorgeous
example of the taste of the time, but immediately strikes the stranger as well suited to the
dignity of the purpose to which the apartment was appropriated. But the open-work bosses of
this ceiling are gone, as are the doors enriched with sculpture, and the ancient chimney, and
the escutcheons charged with sacred devices, and the great painting, by which, before the revolution,
witnesses were made to swear.[180]

The building that fronts the Salle des Procureurs, and forms the third side of the court, was
not erected till after the year 1700. Jouvenet, who commonly passes under the name of the Michelagnolo
of France, was born at Rouen, in 1664; and, in conjunction with Fontenelle and the great Corneille,
forms the triumvirate, of which the city has most reason to feel proud. The painting in the
Palace of Justice was regarded as one of the happiest efforts of his pencil, and was not the
less remarkable for having been executed with his left hand, after a paralytic stroke had deprived
him of the use of the other.

NOTES:

[177] See p. 51.

[178] See plate 64.

[179] Plate 63.

[180] Upon this subject Mr. Turner is in error: it appears, from his Tour in Normandy, I. p.
193, that he was informed that the painting, now actually over the judges' bench, is the same
by which it was originally customary to take the oath; but M. Jolimont, who is, unquestionably,
better authority, states the contrary in the following note:--"Le tableau, sur lequel on faisait
jurer les témoins, et qui avait près de douze pieds d'élévation, consistait en trois portions
ou bandes horizontales réunies dans un grand cadre sculpté à la manière du temps. La première,
et la plus élevée, présentait quatre écussons aux armes de France, parsemés de fleurs de lis
d'or; celle du milieu offrait, sous cinq arcades en ogives avec fleurons, un Christ entre la
Vierge et saint Jean, et les quatre Evangelistes; au-dessous, un Moyse, et les tables de la
loi: il existait encore au moment de la révolution; on l'a remplacé, au mois de janvier 1816,
par un autre, d'environ quatre pieds de hauteur, donné (dit l'inscription moderne mise au bas)
par Louis XII à l'Echiquier, lorsqu'il l'établit au palais. Ce second tableau, recueilli pendant
la révolution par les soins de M. Gouel, graveur, et dont il a bien voulu faire hommage à la
Cour royale (voir, à ce sujet, le Journal de Rouen, du 30 janvier 1816), est composé de deux
parties: l'une renferme un Christ entre saint Jean et la Vierge; l'autre, en forme de couronnement,
présente deux figures à mi-corps, avec des légendes; mais ces deux parties hétérogènes ne sont
que deux fragmens ajustés ensemble. Le premier, qui représente le Christ, est évidemment la
portion qui remplissait une des cinq arcades du grand tableau dont nous venons de parler, et
l'autre est une partie seulement du tableau donné par Louis XII, et qui orna, pendant plus
de deux siècles, le manteau de la belle cheminée de la chambre du Conseil que nous citons ci-après.
Les deux figures, aujourd'hui mutilées, étaient en pied, et représentaient le Roi Louis XII
et le Cardinal d'Amboise, avec ces mots écrits sur des bandelettes, que les deux personnages
semblent s'adresser: Pontifices, agite: Magistrats, agissez;--et vos Reges, dicite justa: et
vous Rois, soyez justes. Ces fragmens de deux tableaux différens, réunis, avec assez d'art,
et qui paraissent être seuls échappés à la destruction, sont encore fort curieux, et l'on doit
savoir gré à M. Gouel de leur conservation, et de la générosité avec laquelle il les a rendus
à leur destination primitive."

PLATE LXXIX.

SOUTH PORCH OF THE CHURCH, AT LOUVIERS.

Louviers is one of the most considerable of the numerous manufacturing towns which surround
Rouen in every direction, depending altogether for their prosperity upon the state of commerce
in the provincial capital. Its population consists of about seven thousand inhabitants. Its
position is beautiful, in a small island formed by the Eure, which divides, in the immediate
vicinity of the town, into two streams, flowing through a valley of the most luxuriant fertility,
enclosed by hills covered for the greater part with extensive forests.

The name of Louviers, in Latin Locoveris, occurs upon more than one occasion, in the early
Norman chronicles; and the town, though never fortified, has obtained a considerable degree
of historical celebrity. When Richard Coeur-de-Lion, escaped from his captivity in the east,
hastened to punish the perfidy with which he had been on all sides assailed during his absence,
and Normandy became the theatre of a most bloody warfare, Louviers had the honor of being selected
as the place in which these differences were composed. The treaty signed upon this occasion,
in 1195, prescribed new bounds to the duchy; and the old historians, who always delight in
consecrating the recital of any memorable event by a mixture of the marvellous, tell how, at
the moment when the kings were engaged in the conference which led to this treaty, a serpent
of enormous size darted from the foot of the tree beneath which they were standing, and approached
them with marks of great fury, hissing violently at both, as if in the act to attack them.
The monarchs, who were alone, instantly laid their hands upon their swords; and the armies,
who stood at a short distance on either side arranged in battle array, alarmed at such hostile
demonstrations, had well nigh joined in a fresh combat.--Only the following year, Louviers
was one of the towns ceded by Richard to Walter, archbishop of Rouen, by way of compensation
for the infringement of the rights of the see, of which he had been guilty in the erection
of Château Gaillard. The possession of Louviers was peculiarly acceptable to the prelate, as
being in the immediate vicinity of the village of Pinterville, where the archbishops of Rouen
then had their country seat: they continued to occupy the same till the reign of St. Louis,
when that monarch conferred upon them the castle of Gaillon, which they held till the revolution.

Louviers was taken in 1345, by the English army under King Edward III. then on his march for
Paris, after the battle of Caen; and Froissart, in relating the circumstance, takes occasion
to mention the importance of the place, stating that the town was then a great one, and "the
chief town of all Normandy for drapery and riches, and full of merchandize. But, not being
closed, the hostile army soon entered it." He goes on to add, not much to the credit of the
invading host, that "they overran, and spoiled and robbed without mercy; and that they won
there great riches."--In 1360, Louviers was once more chosen as the spot where peace was signed:
the treaty that had been concluded at Bretigny, was confirmed at Paris by the Regent, and was
finally ratified by the Black Prince in this town.--During the subsequent wars, under Henry
V. and VI. Louviers is repeatedly mentioned; but principally for opposing a resistance of twenty-six
days to the English in 1418.--In the time of the league, it distinguished itself most unfortunately
by its devoted attachment to the Catholic cause; in consequence of which, it was pillaged by
the royalists shortly after the battle of Ivry.[181]

The church of Louviers is an imposing structure: though materially injured, and reduced to
no more than a nave with its four aisles, it is still a spacious and handsome building. The
central tower is handsome, though square and short. A second tower, to the west, is surmounted
with a truncated cone. The south porch,[182] here figured, is the great feature of the exterior;
and, for beauty and elegance in the formation or disposition of its parts, it may safely be
put in competition with any similar portion of an ecclesiastical building, either in Normandy
or in England. Yet, even here, the saints have been torn from their pedestals by the wanton
violence of Calvinists or of democrats. In the windows of the church there still remains a
considerable quantity of painted glass; and a bas-relief on the right of the choir is well
deserving of attention. It is placed under a niche, which in all probability was originally
filled with a statue of St. Hubert; as the sculpture pourtrays a well-known legend, recorded
in his history--the miraculous stag with a cross between his antlers, seen by the hunter-knight.--The
foliage at the base of the niche is executed with particular elegance and skill.

In the town of Louviers is an old house, said to have belonged to the Knights Templars. Its
gable, pierced with numerous windows, generally in the form of flatly pointed arches, each
of them containing a couple of arches with trefoil-heads, has given currency to the tale of
its original destination. It was figured some time since by M. Langlois, in a work commenced
to illustrate the Antiquities of Normandy, but of which the first number only appeared; and
it has recently been lithographized by M. Nodier. But, from the style of its architecture,
it does not appear to have been erected anterior to the fourteenth century, however confidently
it is referred by M. Langlois to the twelfth or thirteenth.

NOTES:

[181] Sully, in his Memoirs, I. p. 254, (English translation) gives the following account of
its capture:--"The King succeeded better at Louviers: this town kept a priest in its pay; who,
from the top of a belfry, which he never left, played the part of a spy with great exactness.
If he saw but a single person in the field, he rung a certain bell, and hung out at the same
side a great flag. We did not despair of being able to corrupt his fidelity, which two hundred
crowns, and a promise of a benefice worth three thousand livres a year, effected. There remained
only to gain some of the garrison; the Sieur du Rollet took this upon himself, and succeeded.
He addressed himself to a corporal and two soldiers, who easily prevailed upon the rest of
the garrison to trust the guard of one of the gates to them only. Every thing being thus arranged,
the King presented himself before Louviers, at twelve o'clock in the night. No one rung the
bell, nor was there the least motion in the garrison. Du Rollet entered, and opened the gate,
through which the King passed, without the smallest resistance, into the centre of the town.
Fontaine Martel made some ineffectual efforts to draw the garrison together: as for the citizens,
they were employed in concealing their wives and daughters. The town, whose chief riches consisted
in its magazines of linen and leather, was wholly pillaged: I had a gentleman with me, called
Beaugrard, a native of Louviers, who was of great use to us in discovering where these sort
of goods were concealed, and a prodigious quantity of them was amassed together. The produce
of my share amounted to three thousand livres. The King consigned to Du Rollet the government
of Louviers."

[182] Mr. Cotman very much regrets that it was not in his power to do this porch the justice
it deserved, in consequence of the continual interruptions to which he was exposed from the
lower class of the inhabitants.

[183] M. Nodier, in his Voyages Pittoresques et Romantiques, has figured the interior of this
church, the erection of which he refers (p. 18) to the time of the first crusades; but a comparison
of the building with others of that æra, would scarcely warrant such a conclusion.

[184] Vol. II. p. 287.

PLATE LXXX. AND LXXXI.

CHÂTEAU GAILLARD.

On the building of Château Gaillard, the following account is given by Masseville, in his History
of Normandy:[185]--"In the year 1196, a few months after the treaty of Louviers had been concluded
between Philip-Augustus and Richard Coeur-de-Lion, the Norman Duke, considering how frequently
inroads had been made into his territories, by the way of Andelys, resolved to strengthen himself
by means of a formidable barrier in that quarter. With this view, he built a fortress upon
an island in the Seine, opposite the village of Lesser Andelys; and, at the same time, erected
upon the brow of the rock that overhung the river, a castle of the greatest possible strength,
without, however, reflecting how far these works were likely to affect the rights, or to diminish
the revenues, of the see of Rouen, to whom the ground belonged. But Walter, who then wore the
archiepiscopal mitre, was by no means of a character patiently to submit to an invasion of
his privileges. He complained loudly during the progress of the works, menaced the artificers,
and even the prince himself, with the vengeance of the church; and, finally, finding his threats
and his remonstrances equally disregarded, had recourse to the bold measure of laying the whole
of Normandy under a spiritual interdict. The king, alarmed at so decisive a step, appealed
to the papal see, and sent the bishops of Durham and of Lisieux, as his ambassadors to Rome.
Such were the benefits it was supposed to bestow upon the church, that it has passed in ecclesiastical
history, under the significant appellation of the celebris permutatio.

But the king also congratulated himself, and not without reason, upon having opposed an impregnable
barrier to the inroads of his more powerful, and scarcely less active, neighbor. He delighted
in Château Gaillard, the very name of which is said to have had its origin in proud mockery
and defiance; and he himself, in his public acts, designated it his "beautiful castle of the
rock." Many of his charters bear date from this fortress; so that, though only begun three
years before the death of the monarch, it is plain that it was already habitable in his life-time.
It may likewise safely be inferred, that it was then quite finished; for his dastardly successor,
engaged either in distant wars, or in intrigues at home, from the moment of his mounting the
throne, had bestowed no thought upon the strengthening of his hereditary continental dominions,
till he found himself, in the year 1202, attacked by Philip-Augustus at the head of an overwhelming
army, while his own subjects were but little disposed to assist a prince, whose hands were
reeking with his nephew's blood.

It was at this time that Château Gaillard supported the siege which will render its name for
ever memorable in history. But those who delight in narratives of this kind, or who desire
to obtain full information relative to the attacks and defence, combined with a lively picture
of the strength of the fortress, must be referred to Brito, the poetical chronicler of the
exploits of Philip-Augustus. The whole of the seventh book of the Philippiad of that author,
containing no fewer than eight hundred and forty-one lines, are devoted to this single subject;
so eventful was the history of the siege, and so great the importance attached to the capture
of the place. The fall of Château Gaillard was almost immediately followed by the total subversion
of the power of the Norman Dukes; but, as to the fortress itself, though its situation was
no longer such as to give it importance, Brito expressly states, that Philip bestowed great
pains upon the restoring of its damaged works, and upon augmenting its strength by the addition
of new ones:--

    "Rex ita Gaillardo per prælia multa potitus,
    Cuncta reædificat vel ab ipso diruta, vel quæ
    Improbus appositis destruxerat ignibus hostis,
    In triplo meliùs et fortiùs intùs et extrà,
    Antea quàm fuerint muros et cætera firmans."

Fortunately for France, the subsequent state of the kingdom rendered precautions of this description
unnecessary; Château Gaillard appears no more in history as a formidable fortress, except upon
the occasion of the occupation of the Gallic throne by Henry V. and of the expulsion of his
successor. In the former case, the castle did not surrender to the English army, till after
a vigorous resistance of sixteen months;[186] and even then its garrison, though composed of
only one hundred and twenty men, would not have yielded, had not the ropes of their water-buckets
been worn out and destroyed: in the latter instance, it was one of the last of the strong holds
of Normandy that held out for the successors of its ancient dukes; and the siege of six weeks,
sustained by a dispirited army, was scarcely less honorable to its defenders, than the far
longer resistance opposed on former occasions.

If the name of this castle is to be found at other times, in "the historian's ample page,"
it is only in the comparatively unimportant character of a place of safe confinement for state
prisoners, or, on one occasion, as a temporary residence for a fugitive monarch. In the latter
capacity, it opened its gates to David Bruce, in 1331, when the Scottish prince, received by
Philip de Valois, with all the honours due to an exiled sovereign, had this palace assigned
him as a regal residence, and was permitted to maintain here, for a while, the pageantry of
a court. As a prison, Château Gaillard was frequently employed: it was in particular distinguished
with an unenviable preference in one of the most disgraceful æras of the history of France.
Margaret of Burgundy, the Queen of Louis X. and Blanche, the consort of his brother, Charles
le Bel, were both of them confined here, after having been tried and convicted of adultery;
together with Jane, another princess of the house of Burgundy, the wife to Philip, brother
to Louis and Charles. Margaret was shortly after murdered in this castle; when Louis, intent
upon a fresh marriage with the princess Clementia of Hungary, found an obstacle to his wishes
in the protracted existence of his former queen.

Of the extent, the magnificence, the commanding situation, or the imposing appearance of Château
Gaillard, it is almost equally difficult to convey an adequate idea by the pencil or by the
pen. "The faithful eye" can alone give satisfaction upon such subjects.

NOTES:

[185] Vol. II. p. 113.

[186] So says Monstrelet; and he has generally been followed; but, according to Masseville,
(Histoire de Normandie, IV. p. 84) the Norman Chronicle limits the duration of the siege to
only seven months.

PLATE LXXXII.

CHURCH OF MONTIVILLIERS.

Montivilliers is a town of about four thousand inhabitants, situated in a beautiful valley
upon a small stream, called the Lezarde, near the western extremity of the Pays de Caux, within
the distance of six leagues from Fécamp, and two from Havre de Grace. Its fortifications, now
in ruins, were erected near the close of the fourteenth century, till which time it was altogether
defenceless; but the state of France, just recovered from one English invasion and threatened
with another, turned the thoughts of the government towards the securing of all vulnerable
points on the northern frontier; and the trade of the place, though at present trifling, was
at that period far otherwise. The two circular towers of one of the gates now standing, afford
a good specimen of the military architecture of the time.

Montivilliers is called in Latin, Monasterium villare; and in old French, Monstier Vieil: the
present name of the town is obviously a corruption of these; and the same fact also denotes
that the place derived its importance, if not its existence, from the monastery. Among the
Norman historians, the foundation of Montivilliers is referred to the seventh century; during
the latter half of which, St. Philibert, abbot of Jumieges, built a convent here for a community
of nuns. The monastery was richly endowed; but no records are left of its history previously
to the incursions of the Normans, under whose hands it at first suffered the same destruction
as the other religious houses in Neustria, and afterwards rose, like them, from its ashes,
with increased splendor and opulence. The immediate successors of Rollo rebuilt the abbey,
but without restoring it to its original destination. Richard II. conferred it, with all its
dependencies, upon the more favored monks of Fécamp; and, in the donation, he makes use of
the strong expression, "ut ex eo facerent quicquid vellent, tamquam ex proprio alodo." The
union of the two establishments was, however, but short lived: either under the same prince,
or, as some authors say, under his son Robert, Montivilliers once more resumed a state of independence,
and became once more the retreat of holy virgins. The duke was moved to this step by the solicitation
of his aunt Beatrice, who retired hither, and took the veil, and presided over the sisterhood;
and the monastery of St. Taurin at Evreux was, on this occasion, ceded to Fécamp, in exchange
for Montivilliers. A portion of the charter is preserved in the Neustria Pia; and, according
to this work, the instrument was subsequently ratified by the signatures of William the Conqueror,
and of Philip le Bel. At different times, various papal bulls were issued, for the purpose
of placing the abbey of Montivilliers under the especial protection of the holy see, and of
granting it sundry privileges and immunities. These are also recorded in the same publication.
One of them, originating in a dispute between the archbishop of Rouen and the abbess of Montivilliers,
is but little to the credit of either party. It represents the lady-abbess as by no means free
from irregularities in the performance of her office; it charges one of her nuns with dissolute
life; and it arraigns the primate himself of being the cause, if not the immediate instrument,
of scandal:--"Siquidem, ex parte abbatissæ fuit propositum et probatum, quòd quidam, qui cum
eodem archiepiscopo et suis prædecessoribus venerant ad monasterium memoratum, turpia quædam
et illicita commiserunt contra honestatem observantiæ regularis, in scandalum plurimorum: volumus
et mandamus, ut, cùm archiepiscopus Rothomagensis ad monasterium ipsum, causâ visitationis,
accesserit, ab ingressu claustri aliarumque domorum, in quibus habitant moniales, familiam
suam talitèr studeat coercere, quòd de cætero similia non contingant. Ipse quoque archiepiscopus,
ejusdem monasterii claustrum vel capitulum intraturus, non nisi cum moderatâ societate accedat,
quæ vitâ et moribus sit honesta; ut per officium visitationis ejusdem, non dissolutionis vel
scandali, sed ædificationis potiùs materia ministretur."--The instrument, which is of considerable
length, goes on to accuse the prelate of affording protection to some refractory nuns, and
enjoins him never to suffer his clergy to frequent the abbey upon any pretext, or upon any
occasion.

The church of Montivilliers, represented in the present plate, is the same as before the revolution
belonged to the abbey. The portion to the north is the chapter-house, and is the work of the
fourteenth century. The greater part of the rest of the building, though altered in some places,
may safely be referred to the eleventh; at which time it is upon record, that Elizabeth, who
succeeded Beatrice as abbess, nearly, if not altogether, rebuilt the whole. At subsequent periods,
the church underwent many considerable repairs and alterations. A sum of seven hundred florins
was expended upon it in 1370, the proceeds of a fine imposed upon the town, for some injuries
done to the nuns; and Toussaints Varrin, archbishop of Thessalonica, dedicated the edifice,
in 1513, under the invocation of the Holy Virgin. Five years subsequently, the abbess, Jane
Mustel, repaired the ceiling and painted windows, and made the stalls in the choir.[187]--The
exterior of the Lady-Chapel affords a fine example of early pointed architecture; its lofty
narrow windows are separated by slender cylindrical pillars, as in the church of the Holy Trinity,
at Caen. The embattled ornament round the southern door of the western front, is far from commonly
seen in such situations. In the interior of the nave, the same massive semi-circular architecture
prevails as in the towers; but it is mixed with some peculiarities that will scarcely be found
elsewhere, particularly a flat band in the form of a pilaster, enriched with losenges, which
is attached to the front of one of the columns, and is continued over the roof, and again down
the pillar on the opposite side. Mr. Turner noticed a small gallery, or pulpit, of elegant
filigree stone-work, at the west end, near the roof;[188] and, upon the authority of the well-known
antiquary, John Carter, he supposed it most probably intended to receive a band of singers
on high festivals. But some corresponding erections in England would make it seem more likely
that this gallery communicated with the apartments of the superior, and was placed here for
the purpose of affording her the means of paying her devotions in private, when, either from
the weather, or any other cause, she might not wish to occupy her throne in the choir.

Mr. Turner has also remarked upon the capitals of the columns at Montivilliers, which are very
peculiar. Some of them are obvious imitations of the antique pattern, and of great beauty.
Others are as rude and wild as any of those already figured in this work, from the churches
of St. Georges or Gournay. The mysteries of Christianity, and the fables and allegories of
heathenism, the latter, as well in its most refined as its most barbarous forms, occur in endless
variety in almost every part of the edifice. One of the capitals contains a representation
of the fabulous Sphynx, with her tail ending in a fleur-de-lys: upon another, is sculptured
a figure of Christ in the act of destroying the Dragon, by thrusting the end of a crosier into
its mouth.

NOTES:

[187] Description de la Haute Normandie, II. p. 108.

[188] Tour in Normandy, I. p. 69.

PLATE LXXXIII.

CHURCH OF ST. SANSON SUR RILLE.

Normandy, throughout the whole of its extent, can scarcely boast a lovelier stream than the
Rille. Originating in the southern part of the duchy, this little river advances in a northerly
direction, rolling its sparkling waters in rapid course, through a valley of the most brilliant
verdure, till they mingle with the British Channel, at a very short distance from the west
of the mouth of the Seine. The Rille, in every part of its current, is varied by an infinity
of islands, formed by the division of its waters. Hence its principal beauty, and hence also
considerable benefit for the purpose of manufacture; but the same circumstance is fatal to
the more important objects of commerce; for it is in a great measure owing to this multiplicity
of channels, that the river is navigable to only a very short way above Pont Audemer; a distance
scarcely exceeding ten miles from its confluence with the ocean.

The small village of St. Sanson is situated upon the right bank of the Rille, within a league
of its mouth. Its church, the same most probably as is figured in this plate, is enumerated
among the possessions confirmed to the Benedictine monastery of St. Martin, at Troarn, by a
bull of Pope Innocent III. dated in the year 1210. In after-times, the presentation to the
living was in the hands of the bishops of Dol, in Brittany, who likewise continued till the
revolution to be both temporal and spiritual lords of the parish, in right, as they alledged,
of the ancient barony of St. Sanson, which was annexed to their see.[189] Other writers asserted,
that the bishops held their authority here, as successors to the superiors of an abbey, founded
upon this spot in the middle of the sixth century, by Childebert I. in favor of St. Sanson,
then bishop of Dol. But the monastery fell during the earliest incursions of the Normans, and
never rose again. Old traditions state it to have been called in French, Pentale; and in Latin,
Monasterium Pentaliense: a corruption, as it is supposed, of Poenitentiale. A neighboring chapel,
under the invocation of Notre Dame de Pentale, gives color to the report.

Of the church of St. Sanson, nothing more is now left than is exhibited in the plate: the remains
consist only of the chancel, and the arch which separated it from the nave. But even these,
inconsiderable as they appear, have been judged deserving of a place among the more remarkable
of the architectural antiquities of Normandy: the peculiar character of the capitals, and the
small size of the whole, have entitled them to this distinction. Upon regarding the arch, it
is scarcely possible but to be struck with the impression, that, though in its present state
its height is barely sufficient to allow of a man walking upright through it, there must originally
have been an inner member, which has now disappeared. The capitals differ materially from any
others ever seen by Mr. Cotman in Normandy; but Mr. Joseph Woods, whose authority is unquestionable,
says that similar ones are to be found in the Temple of Bacchus, at Teos. There are also several,
which in shape resemble these at St. Sanson, in the very remarkable church of St. Vitalis,
at Ravenna,[190] and in the cloisters of the monastery of St. Scolastica,[191] at Subiaco:
the latter also exhibit a certain degree of similarity in the sculpture.

NOTES:

[189] Description de la Haute Normandie, II. p. 777.

[190] Seroux d'Agincourt, Histoire de la Décadence de l'Art. Architecture, t. 23. f. 7, 8;
and t. 69. f. 14.

[191] Ibid. t. 29. f. 3, 4.

PLATE LXXXIV.

WESTERN DOOR-WAY OF THE CHURCH OF FOULLEBEC.

The church of Foullebec, a small village situated upon the Rille, nearly opposite to St. Sanson,
is a building of Norman times; but the only portion of it particularly calculated to recommend
it to attention, is the arch figured in this plate. This arch exhibits two peculiarities, which
it would be difficult, if not impossible, to parallel in Normandy; the ornamented shafts of
the pillars, and the extraordinary width of the southern capital, which is more than double
that of the column below. The same was also, in all probability, the case with the capital,
now destroyed, on the opposite side of the door-way; and as it is plain that there never was
a second pillar, either on the one side or the other, the only satisfactory mode of accounting
for this singularity, is upon the supposition, that it was the original intention of the architect
to have placed such, but that circumstances occurred which induced him to leave his design
unfinished.--Ornamented shafts of columns, however unfrequently found in Normandy, are far
from being of very uncommon occurrence in the specimens that are left of genuine Norman art
in Great-Britain. Mr. Carter, in his elaborate work upon ancient English architecture, has
collected a variety of similar enrichments in his thirty-third plate; and some of them extremely
beautiful. Several others are to be found in the more splendid volumes of Mr. Britton.--The
sculpture upon the archivolt is also deserving of observation: upon one of the central stones,
is represented the bannered lamb; upon the other, a figure, probably intended for a representation
of our Savior entering Jerusalem upon an ass. The heads on either side are of an unusual character.

The church at Foullebec, as well in its nave as chancel, is externally divided by plain Norman
buttresses into a series of regular compartments, each containing a single circular-headed
window. In the nave are four; in the chancel only two. The tower is square and low: it is placed
at the west end, which is only pierced for the door-way, and is otherwise quite plain, except
a buttress at each corner. Internally, the only object to be noticed is an ancient cylindrical
font; its sides sculptured with semi-circular arches, and a narrow moulding round the rim.

PLATE LXXXV. AND LXXXVI.

CASTLE AT TANCARVILLE.

M. Nodier, who, in his Voyages Pittoresques, has devoted six plates to the illustration of
the noble ruins of the castle at Tancarville, remarks with great justice, that, magnificent
as the building must have been, "it is one that recals but few historical recollections." At
the same time he gives the following quotation from the old Norman Chronicle:--"During the
reign of King Philip le Bel, after the knight of the green lion had conquered the King of Arragon,
a great dissention arose between two powerful barons in Normandy, the Lord of Harecourt and
the Chamberlain of Tancarville. The cause of their strife was a mill, of which the Dwarf of
Harecourt, assisted by forty of his people in arms, had taken forcible possession, mistreating
the vassals of the Chamberlain. The latter, incensed at the outrage, summoned his friends and
attendants; and, having collected them to the number of two hundred, marched upon Lillebonne,
where the Lord of Harecourt and the Dwarf, his brother, were at that time residing. Many and
bitter were the reproaches uttered on either side; and severe was the contest that followed;
for the Lord of Harecourt issued from the barriers with all his forces, and they defended themselves
valiantly; and several lives were lost. The king, on receiving the tidings, was greatly discomforted,
and bade the Sieur Enguerrand de Marigni summon the offending parties to appear before him.
It chanced most untowardly, that they met as they were travelling towards the court; and the
Lord of Harecourt attacked the Chamberlain, and with his gauntlet put out his left eye, and
then returned to his own people. No sooner was he of Tancarville healed, than he repaired to
the royal presence, and defied the Lord of Harecourt to single combat. The pledge was accepted
by M. Charles de Valois, brother of the king, on behalf of his friend. On the other hand, M.
Enguerrand de Marigny, privy counsellor of the monarch, maintained that Harecourt had been
guilty of treason. This was denied by M. Charles, to whom Enguerrand in consequence gave the
lie; and the former took the affront so cruelly to heart, that Enguerrand, brave man as he
was, was afterwards hanged in consequence of it. When the conditions of battle were arranged,
the Lord of Harecourt came into the field with his armor emblazoned with fleurs-de-lys; and
the combatants fought with the utmost valor, till the Kings of England and of Navarre, who
were present, besought the monarch of France to stay the fight; for that it would be great
pity that two so valiant chiefs should fall by each other's hand. Upon this, the king cried
'Ho!' and both parties were satisfied; and peace was made between them by the foreign sovereigns,
in the year 1300."

The same circumstance is related, though with some trifling variations in the details, by Masseville,
in his History of Normandy, a work of which almost every volume bears frequent testimony to
the greatness of the house of Tancarville. This family enjoyed the hereditary dignity of chamberlain
to the Norman dukes; but at what period it was conferred upon them, is lost in the obscurity
of early history. Ralph de Tancarville, who founded the abbey of St. Georges de Bocherville,
about the year 1050,[192] is styled in the Neustria Pia, under the account of that monastry,
as "Tancardi-Villæ Toparcha, præfectus hæreditarius cubiculo Guillelmi secundi." In 1066, the
name of the Count of Tancarville[193] is enumerated among those who attended the Conqueror
into England. The chamberlain of Tancarville is recorded both by Ordericus Vitalis and Masseville,
in the list of Norman knights that distinguished themselves in the wars of Philip-Augustus.
William of Tancarville, the same chieftain, probably, or his immediate predecessor, had previously
suffered himself to be seduced by the arts of Eleanor, queen of Henry II. to join in the conspiracy
of the sons of that monarch, against their father: he subsequently signalized his valor, when
the banners of the lion-hearted Richard were unfurled upon the plains of Palestine. In 1197,
Ralph of Tancarville was one of the witnesses to the treaty of exchange, already more than
once mentioned in this work, made between the sovereign and the archbishop of Rouen, in consequence
of the building of Château Gaillard; and when, eight years afterwards, Philip, having become
undisputed master of Normandy, conciliated the favor of the clergy by important concessions,
the signature and seal of the chamberlain of Tancarville were attached to the instrument.--The
task were easy, by multiplying quotations from Masseville and the early chroniclers, to extend
to a great length the instances in which the noblemen of the house of Tancarville acted a prominent
part in Norman history. It will be sufficient, upon the present occasion, to adduce two circumstances,
as indisputable proofs of their importance. The name of Tancarville is found among the seventy-two
members of the nobility, who, in the beginning of the fourteenth century, were summoned to
the Norman exchequer; and, in the same century, in the year 1320, after Philip VI. upon his
accession to the throne of France, had received at Amiens the homage of Edward III. for the
dukedom of Aquitaine and earldom of Ponthieu, the Count of Tancarville was selected for the
important office of ambassador to England, in conjunction with the Duke of Bourbon and the
Earl of Harcourt, to obtain from the monarch some explanations that were considered indispensable
for the dignity of the crown of France. As late as the year 1451, the Lord of Tancarville appears
as one of the generals of the French forces, which, under the command of the Count of Longueville,
finally succeeded in expelling the English from Normandy. From that time forward, Masseville
makes no mention of the family. Respecting the castle, he is altogether silent, except upon
the occasion of its capture by the French in 1435, and its surrender to them again in 1449.

It may have been observed in the preceding brief enumeration of a few principal facts connected
with the family of Tancarville, that the Lords of that house have, on more than one occasion,
been designated as Counts: the author of the Description de la Haute Normandie, however, expressly
states that this property was not raised into an earldom till the reign of King John of France,
who ennobled it with that dignity in 1351; at which time it was composed of all the fiefs,
castellanies, baronies, and other lands of every description, in the duchy of Normandy, occupied
by John de Melun, and Jane Crepin his wife. From the house of Melun, this same earldom passed
into that of Harcourt, by the union of Jane of Melun with William of Harcourt--their daughter,
who inherited the property, afterwards carried it in dower to John, Count of Dunois and of
Longueville. In the year 1505, when Louis XII. added to the earls of Longueville the higher
honor of the dukedom, Tancarville was comprised among the dependencies of the new dignity;
and when, shortly afterwards, the duchy of Longueville escheated to the crown, the earldom
of Tancarville, remaining united to Longueville, shared the same fate. Mary of Orleans, duchess
of Nemours and Estouteville, having become possessed of Tancarville, sold it in September,
1706, to Anthony Crozat, the king's secretary; and, at the same time, the monarch conferred
all the rights and privileges attached to the domain, upon Louis de la Tour d'Auvergne, Count
of Evreux. Twelve years subsequently, the king, by his letters patent, separated Tancarville
from Longueville, and ordered that the Lords of Tancarville should thenceforth be summoned
to the parliament at Rouen.

The title of Earl of Tankerville is at the present day to be found in the English peerage.
It is borne by a descendant of Charles Bennet, second Lord of Ossulston, upon whom it was conferred
by George I. in 1714, after he had married the daughter and heiress of Ford, Lord Grey of Wark,
Earl of Tankerville. One of the family of this Lord Grey, Sir John Grey, Knight, Captain of
Maunt, in Normandy, had originally been rewarded with the title by King Henry V. for his eminent
services in the French wars. But his grandson, Richard, Earl of Tankerville, was attainted
in the thirty-eighth year of the succeeding reign; and the title remained dormant till re-granted
by King William III. to Ford, Lord Grey, just mentioned, who was lineally descended from the
brother of the first earl.

Different opinions have prevailed with respect to the origin of the name of Tancarville. Ordericus
Vitalis calls it Tanchardi Villa: M. de Valois, in his Notitia Galliæ, is disposed to claim
for it the more imposing appellation of Tancredi Villa. The point will in all probability never
be settled: it is more to be regretted, that no account is to be found of the building of the
castle, whose lofty towers still frown in the pride of old baronial grandeur, from the summit
of a steep cliff upon the right bank of the Seine, which here, so near its mouth, rather assumes
the character of an estuary than a river. The wide extent of the ruins sufficiently bespeaks
the importance of its former possessors: at present, nothing can be more forlorn and desolate.
Parallel with this terrace, runs the more modernised part of the castle, which the last residing
owner inhabited. It may have been built about fifty years ago, and is--or rather the remains
of it are--quite in the modern style of domestic architecture. The rooms are large, lofty,
and commodious;--yet nothing but the shells of them remain. The revolutionary patriots completely
gutted them of every useful and every valuable piece of furniture; and even the bare walls
are beginning to grow damp, and threaten immediate decay. I made several memoranda upon the
spot, which have been unluckily, and I fear irretrievably, misplaced; so that, of this once
vast, and yet commanding and interesting edifice, I regret that I am compelled to send you
so short and so meagre an account. Farewell--a long and perhaps perpetual farewell--to the
Castle of Montmorenci!"

NOTES:

[192] According to Masseville, (Histoire de Normandie, II. p. 192,) this abbey was not founded
till the year 1114; but such a statement is irreconcileable with the fact of the dead body
of the Conqueror having been carried there in 1087; and, moreover, both the Gallia Christiana
and Neustria Pia expressly state that it was in 1114 that William, fifth son of the founder,
and himself also hereditary chamberlain of Normandy, removed from St. Georges the canons established
there by his father, and replaced them with monks from St. Evroul.

[193] So called by Masseville, I. p. 205.

[194] Mr. Dibdin uniformly calls this castle, the Castle of Montmorenci; but on no occasion
does he state his authority for so doing; the author of these remarks never heard it so styled
in Normandy, nor can he find it mentioned under that name by Nodier, or any other author. If,
as appears probable, the people of the neighborhood are in the habit of so designating it,
the probability is, that the modern part (see plate eighty-five) was erected at a period when
Tancarville belonged to some member of the noble family of Montmorenci.

PLATE LXXXVII. AND LXXXVIII.

CHURCH OF THE HOLY CROSS, AT ST. LO.

(WESTERN DOOR-WAY, AND VARIOUS SPECIMENS OF SCULPTURE.)

The town of St. Lo is said to owe its origin to the Emperor Charlemagne, and to have been founded
by him in the fifth year of the ninth century. It is situated in the western part of Normandy,
upon the small river, Vire, about five leagues to the east of Coutances; and at this time it
contains nearly seven thousand inhabitants. Old chroniclers relate that the name originally
given to the place was Ste Croix; but that, soon after its foundation, it exchanged that appellation
for the present, upon being selected as the spot to be honored with the reception of the relics
of St. Lo, or, as he is called in Latin, St. Laudus, who was the fifth bishop of Coutances,
and presided over that see the greater part of the sixth century. Of the merits of the saint,
the miracles he performed both living and dead, and the various places that have, at different
times, received his mortal remains, a copious account is given by M. Rouault, in his History
of the Bishops of Coutances. It is sufficient, in the present instance, to state, that, upon
the translation of the body of St. Lo to the spot now dignified with his name, a magnificent
church was built under his invocation; and the town was encompassed with fortifications of
great strength, to defend it against the inroads of the Normans. These heathen plunderers had
at this time just begun their ravages in Neustria, when, notwithstanding its new walls, St.
Lo was soon obliged, in common with the rest of the province, to submit to their sway; and
they emptied upon the Christian city the full phials of pagan wrath, by burning it to the ground.

In subsequent, and probably not distant, times, St. Lo was again converted into a place of
defence; and mention of it as such repeatedly occurs in the various unquiet periods of French
history. Even at the present day, when fortifications in that part of the kingdom have long
been neglected, there remain sufficient vestiges of them at St. Lo, to convey the most imposing
idea of their original strength, aided as they must have been, by their situation upon the
summit of a lofty and inaccessible rock.--St. Lo was one of the last towns in Lower Normandy
that opened their gates to the victorious arms of the Empress Maude: it remained unshaken in
its allegiance till 1142, only two years before the death of the English monarch.--In the third
year of the following century, it surrendered without bloodshed to Philip-Augustus, then on
his march towards the capture of Mount St. Michael; nor does it appear to have offered more
than a trifling resistance to Edward III. by whom it was taken in 1346. Froissart, upon that
occasion, gives the following details relative to the English army, as well as to the state
of the town and its capture:--"The King of England and Prince of Wales had, in their battalion,
about three thousand men at arms, six thousand archers, and ten thousand infantry, without
counting those that were under the marshals; and they marched in the manner I have before mentioned,
burning and destroying the country, but without breaking their line of battle. They did not
turn towards Coutances, but advanced to St. Lo, in Coutantin, which, in those days, was a very
rich and commercial town, and worth three such towns as Coutances. In the town of St. Lo was
much drapery, and many wealthy inhabitants; among them you might count eight or nine score
that were engaged in commerce. When the King of England was come near the town, he encamped:
he would not lodge in it for fear of fire. He sent, therefore, his advanced guard forward,
who soon conquered it at a trifling loss, and completely plundered it. No one can imagine the
quantity of riches they found in it, nor the number of bales of cloth. If there had been any
purchasers, they might have bought them at a cheap rate."

In 1379, when the English arms, during the minority of the second Richard, obtained in France
an ephemeral superiority, St. Lo was the only town in the Côtentin, except Carentan, which
the French monarch considered of sufficient strength to justify him in entrusting it with a
garrison.--It was taken by the English, under Henry V. in 1418; and was again restored to the
French, by capitulation, thirty-one years subsequently.--In the beginning of the following
tumultuous reign, St. Lo and Valognes were appointed as the places of residence for Clarence
and Warwick, and the other leaders of the Lancastrian party; after their short-lived success,
in favor of the deposed Henry, had been followed by their own utter defeat, and the final discomfiture
of their hopes.

During the religious wars of the sixteenth century, St. Lo was once more so unfortunate as
to act a prominent part. Early in the troubles, it distinguished itself by a decided devotion
to the cause of Protestantism; and, though often obliged, by the current of affairs, to yield
a reluctant submission to the opposite party, it continued throughout the whole of the struggle,
unshaken in its attachment to the Huguenots. Hence, when finally summoned to surrender to the
Catholics, in 1574, it rather chose to expose itself to all the miseries of a siege, as well
as to the still greater one of being taken by assault; and the severity of its sufferings is
recorded by the historians of the conquering party, who themselves admit, that "it was sacked
with a horrible carnage."[195] Its Protestant places of worship were not, however, finally
rased, till 1685, the period of the revocation of the edict of Nantes.

St. Lo was the seat of an abbey of Augustine friars, said to have been founded in the middle
of the twelfth century, and to have been of such celebrity, that, according to Quercetanus,
the bishops of Coutances were contented for a time to be styled bishops of St. Lo.[196]The
principal church in the place, that of Notre Dame, greatly resembles the cathedral of Coutances,
of which it is even said to be a copy. It was not begun to be built till the period of English
rule in Normandy, during the fifteenth century. The older, or clock-tower, was erected in 1430:
the opposite tower and western entrance, in 1464. Other parts of it were not completed till
the following century; and the northern spire is a work of as late a period as 1685.

The very ancient church of Ste Croix, (the subject of these plates,) was connected with the
abbey, of which little now remains. There is a tradition in the town, that it was once a temple
of Ceres; and such traditions, however uncritical or even absurd, deserve to be noticed, as
generally originating in a confused knowledge of the remote date of the building to which they
are attached. In the opinion of M. de Gerville, a portion, at least, of the church, belongs
to the edifice raised by Charlemagne, in 805. The actual erection of such an edifice, and its
dedication to the holy cross, are facts distinctly stated in the Neustria Pia: its identity
with the present church does not appear to be doubted, either by Du Monstier, or the Abbé de
Billy, the historian of St. Lo. At the same time, neither the one nor the other of these writers
was ignorant of the positive assertion in the Gesta Normannorum, that, under those successful
invaders--"Sancti Laudi castrum, interfectis habitatoribus, terræ æquatum est." But, in opposition
to this, M. de Gerville contends that, either this strong assertion is to be received with
a certain degree of latitude, or that, by the word castrum, is to be understood only the citadel;
so that, while that was destroyed, the domestic and religious edifices were suffered to escape.
He even thinks that the parts of the building ascribable to the period of the Carlovingian
dynasty, may be distinguished by a practised eye, from the reparations of the eleventh century.
He traces them especially in the western front, in its door-way, (plate eighty-seven) and in
some herring-bone masonry, observable over a narrow circular-headed window towards the south.
But he founds his opinion still more upon the bas-relief, representing the Deity attended by
angels, (plate eighty-eight, fig. B.) now built into the wall at the end of the nave, on the
south side. The character of the sculpture and the form of the letters appear to him to be
almost decisive. With regard to the latter, he observes;--"it is well known that the Roman
characters were restored by Charlemagne, especially after he had been proclaimed emperor. This
fact is sufficiently attested by the various monuments still left us of his time, as well as
by the coins which were struck in the latter part of his reign, and during that of Louis le
Débonnaire. Elegance and simplicity in the shape of the letters, characterized the writing
of this epoch; and the latter, at least, of these qualities, is eminently to be found in the
inscription at St. Lo. On the other hand, correct orthography was not equally one of the excellencies
of the age."

Pursuing the subject yet farther, M. de Gerville gives it as his opinion, that the different
epochs in the architecture, commonly designated as Norman, may be determined with some degree
of precision; and he thinks he can trace, in several churches of the vicinity, an evident imitation
of this at St. Lo; while he regards the superior antiquity of the latter decisively established
by the sculpture over the western entrance; by the medallion of the Deity, already noticed;
and by several of the capitals of the interior; particularly those that have reference to the
legends of St. Eloy, (plate eighty-eight, fig. F.) and St. Hubert, (fig. D.), both at that
period quite recent; and two of the others, (fig C. and E.) in the latter of which, the devil
is roasting unfortunate sinners, while the former, exhibiting the psychostasia, affords a graphic
illustration of two lines of the well-known hymn of the Roman Catholic church:--

    "Statera facta corporis,
    Prædamque tulit Tartari."

In the western front of the church of Ste Croix have been inserted, above the door-way, three
windows of the earliest pointed style. The whole of the sculpture over the architraves of the
arch, is, both in its design and execution, curious. The knotted serpents, terminating at either
end in heads of devils; the two men tugging at rings, attached to a chain twisted round the
neck of a decapitated demon, whom, two dogs are baying; and the structure of the chain itself,
are all peculiar; and scarcely less so is the medallion below.[197]--The church ends at the
east with a large circular arch, which is now closed, and has always been so since the memory
of man; but probably, at some former time, it led into a chancel or sanctuary. There is a south
transept, which terminates in a similar arch: the arches of the nave, which are likewise circular,
are each of them surrounded with a double architrave of the zig-zag moulding: the capitals
to the pillars supporting these arches, Mr. Cotman considers as being for the greater part
of the best class of Norman sculpture. He has selected for engraving those that are most rude:
the others commonly exhibit broad interlaced bands, foliage, and fruits. The abaci, too, though
they are in general plain, are in some instances enriched with similar sculpture, as in the
churches of Grâville, of Cerisy, and of the Holy Trinity at Caen. In the clerestory, over every
arch below, were originally two smaller semi-circular-headed arches; but these are now closed,
and their place is occupied by a single, narrow, pointed window, that opens into a large recess.
The corbels without, (plate eighty-eight, fig. A.) may bear a comparison, in point of singularity,
with those of any other Norman church. The sacred emblem of the Christian faith, the wimpled
nun, the whiskered Saxon, and the wolf, the scourge of Neustria, are found among them, side
by side with the Atlas and Cyclops of heathen mythology; and, as if the legends of Rome and
Greece could not furnish sufficient subjects for the sculptor's chisel, he appears to have
extended his researches into the more remote regions, bordering upon the Nile, and thence to
have imported a rude imitation of the Egyptian head, and one still more rude, of the mystic
Scarabæus.

NOTES:

[195] St. Lo was then commanded by M. Colombieres, who was so resolute in the cause, that,
rather than surrender, he placed himself in the middle of the breach, with his two young sons,
on either side of him, each holding a javelin in his hand, and then awaited the attack, exhorting
his children to perish bravely, rather than be left to infidels and apostates. The Catholic
army was headed by M. de Matignon, who had, on a former occasion, distinguished himself by
his lenity towards the inhabitants of the place. The lordship of St. Lo, with the title of
a barony, continued in his family as late as the year 1722, when Masseville published his History
of Normandy.

[196] For the following details, and indeed the greater part of the remainder of this article,
the author has to express his obligations to M. de Gerville, whose kind assistance, throughout
the whole of the work, cannot be too often, or too distinctly, acknowledged.

[197] The bas-relief upon this medallion represents the most impressive of the miracles connected
with the history of St. Lo, and one that was performed at the very moment when he was about
to enter upon the duties of his episcopacy, to which, by a manifest interposition of the Deity,
he had been elected at the early age of twelve years. Rouault, in his Abrégé de la Vie des
Evêques de Coutances, p. 81, gives the following details respecting it; and his account, which
is curious, is here inserted, as adding probability to the opinion of M. de Gerville, that
this medallion at least belonged to the original structure, whatever may be thought of the
rest of the church.--"Comme l'élection et la consécration de S. Lo avoient été miraculeuses,
Dieu fit voir par des signes qui n'étoient pas moins surprenants que tout s'étoit fait selon
sa volonté: car à la première entrée que le jeune Prélat fit dans son Eglise, la divine Puissance
voulut prouver à St. Gildard, aux autres Prélats qui étoient encore presents, et à toute l'Eglise
de Coûtances, que tout ce qu'ils avoient fait lui étoit très-agréable. Ce qui fut confirmé
par un Miracle des plus éclatans dans la personne d'une Femme aveugle née, qui s'étant faite
conduire à la porte de la Cathédrale, y attendoit le nouvel Evêque, dans l'esperance de recevoir
la vüe par son intercession. En effet, lorsqu'elle apprit qu'il approchoit, elle le conjura
à haute voix de lui faire voir la lumiere. Le Saint frappé d'une telle demande en rougit, et
crut que c'étoit tenter Dieu que d'attendre de lui des Miracles. Mais cette pauvre femme ne
cessant de crier comme l'Aveugle de l'Evangile, le Saint poussa un profond soupir, et ayant
plus d'égard à la foi de la suppliante qu'à son propre mérite, il invoqua le secours du saint
Esprit, fit avec confiance le signe de la croix sur les yeux de l'Aveugle, et au même instant
la vüe lui fut renduë à la grande admiration de tous les assistans, qui bénirent et remerciérent
Dieu de leur avoir donné un Pasteur qui prouvoit sa vocation par un si grand Miracle, en reconnoissance
duquel on éleva au même lieu deux Statuës, l'une de Saint Lo, et l'autre de la femme guérie,
telles qu'on les voit encore aujourd'hui au Portail de l'Eglise, où on a aussi conservé fort
soigneusement la Pierre sur laquelle étoit Saint Lo lorsqu'il opera ce Miracle. C'est encore
sur elle que les Seigneurs Evêques de Coûtances s'arrêtent à leur premiere entrée, pour faire
les sermens et promesses accoutumées en pareille Céremonie, et qu'ils y reçoivent les complimens
et applaudissemens de la Ville, pour conserver la mémoire d'un si grand Miracle."

PLATE LXXXIX. AND XC.

CASTLE OF FALAISE.

Whoever can take pleasure in the wildest extravagancies of absurd fiction, displayed in theories
destitute of even the slender basis of tradition, yet raised with plausibility, connected with
ingenuity, and supported by learning, may find abundant gratification in the early history
of Falaise. The town, as stated in a manuscript gazetteer of Normandy, written in the seventeenth
century, was not only among the most ancient in Gaul, but was founded by one of the grandsons
of Noah. According to another yet more grave authority, its antiquity soars still higher, and
mounts to the period of the deluge itself. It so far exceeds that of the Roman empire, that,
long before the building of the immortal city, colonies were sent from Falaise into Italy,
where they were known by the Aborigines, under the names of Falisci, or Falerii. A third writer,
M. Langevin, author of the Recherches Historiques sur Falaise, assures his readers that Falaise
was, from time immemorial, a station consecrated to religion; and, in a dissertation full of
the most recondite information relative to the worship of Belenus and Abrasax, Isis and Felé,
he so connects and intermingles the rites of those deities with the place and its vicinity,
that he can scarcely be said to do it less honor than his predecessors.

To turn from historians of this sanguine complexion to those of a more sober temperament, there
will appear no reason for believing that the town of Falaise had existence prior to the incursions
of the Saxons, or the establishment of the Normans, in Neustria. No mention of it whatever
is to be found previous to the latter of these times; and its very name, obviously derived
from the German word for a rock, fels, whence the French subsequently borrowed their appellation
for cliffs, falaise, seems decisive as to the foundation of the town by some people of Teutonic
origin. It is at the same time altogether characteristic of its situation.

That Falaise was built by the Saxons, may probably, with justice, be
inferred from the fact of its being casually mentioned during the reign
of Rollo, as one of the places through which he passed in the year 912,
while visiting the different parts of his duchy. The town cannot but
have been of importance in the time of his son, William Longue-Epée; as
that prince is stated to have received great assistance from the
inhabitants of Falaise, and the district of the Hiémois, when engaged in
a war with the people of Brittany. It is more than possible that the
fortifications were added, and the castle erected, by one or the other
of these sovereigns.[198] Their immediate successor, Richard Sans-Peur,
is stated to have made considerable additions to the works of the place,
which, in the early part of the following century, under Richard III.
the fifth of the Norman dukes, was unquestionably one of the strongest
holds of the province. Not long afterwards, Falaise rose into new
importance, as the residence of Robert, father to the Conqueror, and the
birth-place of that sovereign himself, to whom it rendered acceptable
service during his youth, upon the occasion of the formidable conspiracy
of the Norman barons, headed by Guy de Bourgogne, in 1046. The prince,
then at Valognes, escaped with difficulty from the poniards of the
assassins to Falaise, where he was received with open arms. Falaise was
at that time the capital of the Hiémois. In the reign of Henry II. of
England, the castle was used as a state prison, and was selected as the
place of confinement of Robert, Earl of Leicester, when taken prisoner
in 1173, commanding the French forces in England.
    Hunc rex innumeris circumdedit undique signis,
    Perque dies septem varia instrumenta parabat,
    Moenibus ut fractis villâ potiatur et arcâ:
    Verùm burgenses et præcipue Lupicarus,
    Cui patriæ curam dederat rex Anglicus omnem,
    Elegere magis illæsum reddere castrum,
    Omni re salvâ cum libertatis honore,
    Quàm belli tentare vices et denique vinci."

The foregoing was the fourth of the nine sieges that have rendered the name of Falaise memorable
in Norman history. The first of them had taken place in 1027, when Falaise presumed to shelter
Robert, the father of the Conqueror, during his rebellion against his brother, Duke Richard
III. In point of importance, none of the sieges were equal to those of 1417 and 1589. Upon
the former of those occasions, Henry V. flushed by the success that had unremittingly attended
his arms, since his glorious victory at Agincourt, led his troops in person against the town,
which he expected would fall an easy prey. But it resisted an incessant bombardment for three
months, and did not finally surrender, till the fortifications had sustained such essential
injuries, that the repairing of them by the besieged, at their own charge, was made one of
the leading articles of the capitulation. It was upon this occasion, that the lofty circular
tower, one of the principal objects in both these plates, was added to the castle. Tradition
ascribes its erection to the celebrated English general, Talbot, then governor of the town;
and, even to the present day, it bears his name.[199]

The last siege of Falaise, that of December, 1589, was occasioned by the devoted adherence
of the inhabitants to the League, and their consequent refusal to recognize Henry IV. as their
sovereign, on account of his attachment to the Protestant faith. In defence of their creed,
they had already sustained one siege in the month of July of the same year; and, headed by
the Count de Brissac, governor of the castle, had repulsed the royal troops under the command
of the Duke de Montpensier. But the new sovereign was not a man to be trifled with; and when
Brissac, upon being summoned to surrender, replied, according to the words of De Thou, "religione
se prohiberi; sumpto quippe Dominici corporis sacramento, fidem suis obligâsse de deditione
se prorsùs non acturum;" the king is reported, by the same noble historian, to have returned
in answer, "se menses ad totidem dies contracturum, intra quos illum, sed magno suo cum damno,
religione soluturus esset." The garrison, notwithstanding these threats, did not relax in their
opposition, and the town was finally taken by assault, the frost enabling the assailants to
cross the moat. On this, the Count de Brissac retired to the castle, which he surrendered about
a month afterwards.

Falaise appears in the religious annals of Normandy, as the seat of an abbey, founded in 1127,
and first occupied by regular canons of the order of St. Augustine, and placed under the invocation
of St. Michael, the Archangel; but shortly afterwards transferred to the Præmonstratensian
friars, and dedicated to St. John the Baptist. The monastery is said to have taken its rise
from an hospital, established by a wealthy inhabitant, in consequence of a beggar having died
of cold and hunger in his barn. A bull from Pope Sextus IV. dated in 1475, conferred upon the
abbots the privilege of wearing the mitre, ring, and pontifical insignia, together with various
other honorary distinctions. The revolution deprived Falaise of its abbey and eight churches.
It now retains only four; two within the walls, and two in the suburbs. Its population is estimated
at about ten thousand inhabitants.

The castle of Falaise is with justice regarded by Mr. Turner, as one of the proudest relics
of Norman antiquity.

NOTES:

[198] At the same time that no record whatever has been preserved relative to the date of the
building of the castle at Falaise, the Norman chroniclers have carefully recorded the æras
of the erection of the other castles in the neighborhood. That of Domfront, according to them,
was built A.D. 1011 and 1014, by the Counts of Alençon; that of Caen, by William the Conqueror,
but much increased by his son, Henry I.; that of Vignats, a league and a half from Falaise,
about the year 1096, during the dukedom of Robert, by Robert of Montgomery, Count of Alençon,
and Viscount of Hiêmes and of Falaise; and that of Argentan, by Henry I. King of England, by
way of protection against his son-in-law, Geoffrey Plantagenet.--Recherches Historiques sur
Falaise, p. 22.

[199] According to Langevin, p. 30, Talbot likewise added to the castle, some noble apartments,
ornamented with paintings, which also passed under his name, and of which some portions were
still standing a few years ago.

[200] Vol. II. p. 266.

[201] This print has lately been copied into Mr. Dibdin's Tour, vol. II. p. 11.

[202] Mr. Turner appears to be in error with regard to this capital: Mr. Cotman, who examined
it more attentively, found the child to be holding two animals in a leash; and he supposes
them to be greyhounds, comparing them with a very similar piece of sculpture upon one of the
capitals in the bishop's palace, in the castle at Durham, erected by the Conqueror.--See Carter's
Ancient Architecture, I. pl. 17, fig. P.

PLATE XCI.

INTERIOR OF THE CHURCH OF CREULLY.

Creully, whose church has been here selected for publication, as a favorable specimen of genuine
Norman architecture, is a small market-town of the diocese of Bayeux, situated about six miles
to the east of the city of that name, and fifteen miles north-west of Caen. It is an ancient
barony, having been honored with that distinction by Henry I. in favor of his natural son,
the Earl of Glocester, many of whose descendants, according to Masseville, were still living
in Normandy in the eighteenth century, and bore the name of Creully. The same author makes
mention of the Lords of Creully, on more than one occasion, in the course of his Norman history.--They
are to be found in the list of the barons that accompanied Duke Robert to the Holy Land, in
1099; and when the Genoese, in 1390, called upon the King of France for succours against the
infidels of the coast of Barbary, and the pious monarch sent an army to their relief, under
the command of the Duke of Bourbon, the name of the Seigneur de Creully stands prominent among
those who embarked upon that unfortunate expedition. Again, in 1302, the Baron of Creully held
the fifth place among the nine lords from the bailiwick of Caen, who were summoned to sit in
the Norman exchequer.

From the days of the Earl of Glocester to the breaking out of the French revolution, the barony
of Creully continued to be held by different noble families. In the early part of the eighteenth
century, when Masseville published his work, it was in the hands of the heirs of M. de Seigneley-Colbert,
who likewise possessed other considerable domains in Normandy.

NOTES:

[203] Turner's Tour in Normandy, II. p. 264.

PLATES XCII.--XCIV.

CATHEDRAL AT COUTANCES.

The diocese of Coutances, embracing the north-western portion of Celtic Gaul, appears to have
been the last part of the country that was visited by the light of Christianity; but its historians
boast that the tardy approach of the rays of gospel-truth has been more than compensated by
their subsequent brilliancy; for that in no other of the Norman dioceses has the sun of revelation
blazed with equal splendor, or given birth to fruits of equal excellence. Thus, according to
Rouault,[204] as early as the fifth century, and during the whole of the two following, and
a portion of the eighth, the Côtentin was so celebrated, by reason of the great number of saints,
who were either natives of the country, or had retired thither as to a place of safe retreat,
that it was regarded as being honored with the divine favor, beyond any other district in France.
No fewer than fifteen holy men, enshrined in the Roman calendar, are said to have resided there
at or near the same period; and, while their lustre irradiated the episcopal mitre, its beams
extended to the remote fastnesses of the desert of Scycy, near Granville, then celebrated for
the sanctity of its hermits. At a time not long subsequent, St. Algeronde and Theodoric, both
of them bishops of Coutances, and the martyrs, Leo, Philip, and Gervais, three natives of Carentan,
became principal instruments towards the conversion of the heathen Normans. History also records,
that it was in the house of St. Clair, one of the protectors of this diocese, that the treaty
was finally concluded, in conformity with which, the chief of the infidels was, with his followers,
admitted within the pale of the church.

The foundation of the see of Coutances is commonly supposed to have taken place about the middle
of the fifth century, during the latter years of the papacy of Celestine I. and of the reign
of Pharamond, in France. The see lays claim to the proud distinction of having enriched the
beatified calendar with the names of at least fifteen of its bishops; of having added one to
the list of the successors of St. Peter; of having supplied six cardinals to the holy college;
and of having produced an equal number of martyrs. And if to this catalogue, already great,
be joined the many anchorites of Scycy and of Nanteuil, who have been promoted to the episcopal
dignity, a whole legend, to use the words of a pious author, may be filled with the lives and
the miracles of the holy men of Coutances.

In turning from the ecclesiastical to the secular annals of the diocese, the barons of the
Côtentin scarcely occupy a less distinguished place. The histories of the Crusades, in particular,
abound with their exploits. Hauteville, near Coutances, boasts to have given birth and title
to Tancred, of immortal memory; who, either himself, or by his descendants, founded the kingdoms
of Naples and Sicily, and reigned over almost the whole of Italy; while, with their victorious
forces, they exterminated the Saracens, protected the holy see, supported the Cretans in the
east, and carried their conquering arms to the utmost confines of the Greek empire. To them,
also, the chivalrous institution of the Golden Fleece owes its origin; and so extraordinary
were their exploits, that they might pass for fabulous, had they occurred in a more remote
age, and did not the concurring testimony of historians unite to stamp them with the seal of truth.

According to the ecclesiastical division of France before the revolution, the diocese of Coutances
was bounded to the south by that of Avranches, and to the east by that of Bayeux, while, in
the two remaining divisions, its limits were circumscribed by the ocean.[205] At present, it
includes the whole department of La Manche; the suppression of the bishopric of Avranches having
added considerably to its extent.--In Roman Gaul, Coutances was included in the province called
the Lugdunensis secunda: but, on the subject of the foundation or early history of the city,
authors are, as commonly happens, much at variance, ascribing to it, according to their fancies
or their prejudices, very different degrees of antiquity. Those who are most disposed to do
it honor in this respect, contend that it was the capital of the tribe mentioned by Cæsar,
in his Commentaries, under the name of Unelli; and called by Pliny, Venelli; and by Ptolemy,
Veneli. They are guided in this opinion exclusively by locality. Others, with a greater appearance
of probability, at least as far as any reliance may be placed upon etymology, maintain that
Coutances had no existence before the days of the Emperor, Constantius Chlorus, father to Constantine
the Great. There have also not been wanting writers who have referred its origin to Constantine
himself, or who have maintained that it was indebted for its name to its constant and vigorous
opposition to the Roman power. The second of these opinions appears to have obtained general
credence in the time of Ordericus Vitalis, who, in speaking of Constantius, expressly says,
"Hic in Neustriâ civitatem condidit, quam a nomine suo Constantiam nominavit." Ammianus Marcellinus
adds strength to the same belief, when he calls Coutances, Constantia castra. It is probable
that the city was in reality the seat of the Emperor's camp, at the time when he was about
to lead his forces into Britain.

Of the future progress of the town, and the steps by which it rose to its present eminence,
no account whatever is left. History, so profuse in details respecting many other places in
Normandy, far inferior in size and in distinction, has done little more with regard to the
capital of the Côtentin, than record the bare facts,--that it was pillaged by the Normans in
888; was sold by Duke Robert to his brother, Henry I. in 1087; was taken by the Count of Anjou,
in the twelfth year of the following century; was, thirty years subsequently, surrendered to
the Empress Maude; was wrested from John, by Philip-Augustus, in 1202; in 1418, opened its
gates to the victorious arms of Henry V.; and, after remaining for thirty-one years in the
hands of the English, was finally re-united to the crown of France. In 1465, Coutances lost
its military character: its walls were then destroyed, and the fortifications rased, by order
of Louis XI. as a punishment upon the inhabitants for their conduct, in aiding the treasonable
attempt of Charles, the brother of the monarch, to obtain forcible possession of the dukedom
of Normandy.[206] Not long subsequently, Francis I. gladdened the city with the royal presence,
on his return from his pilgrimage to Mont St. Michel, in 1487; and his grandson, Henry III.
bestowed upon it the distinction of being the capital of the bailiwick; soon after which, it
suffered severely during the religious wars, especially when it fell into the power of the
Calvinists, in 1562. Those merciless religionists pillaged it with an unsparing hand, even
consigning a portion of it to the flames: they sacked the churches, and carried off the prelate,
whom they forced to accompany them upon an ass, with his face turned to its tail.

Of the bishops of Coutances, it will be sufficient here to mention three--Richard de Longueuil,
who was nominated in 1455, one of the four commissioners to revise the process of the Maid
of Arc, and declared her innocent; Nicholas de Briroy, who, at the end of the following century,
obtained from the Pope, Paul V. in return for his extensive charities, the enviable title of
Father of the Poor; and Geoffrey de Montbray, a prelate honored with the especial favor of
the Conqueror, to whom he frequently rendered the most essential service, as well in arms as
in peace. He it was, who performed mass in the Norman camp, preparatory to the battle of Hastings,
and who preached at the coronation of the monarch, from whom he is said, by Ordericus Vitalis,
to have received no fewer than two hundred and eighty manors in England.

The present population of Coutances amounts to between eight and nine thousand inhabitants.
The remains of the noble aqueduct in the neighborhood, though commonly ascribed to the times
of Roman power, are said to be with more justice referable to a nobleman of the family of Haye-Paisnel,
and to have been erected in the thirteenth century. The principal feature and great ornament
of the city is its noble cathedral, which, regarded as a whole, may, in the opinion of M. de
Gerville, challenge a comparison with any other in France. Its architecture, according to the
same able antiquary, affords a satisfactory proof that the pointed arch was really used in
France, full half a century before the epoch generally assigned to its introduction. Upon this
latter subject, there has already been an opportunity of speaking in the present work, while
treating of the Church of Lisieux; and the opinion there stated by Mr. Turner, must be allowed
to derive the strongest confirmation from the cathedral of Coutances. The point is one that
has frequently exercised the ingenuity of architects, and of the learned: the concluding portion,
therefore, of this article, will be principally devoted to that subject.[207]

It was, in the twelfth century, according to Mr. Whittington, that "the pointed arch began
to shew itself in the edifices of France and the neighboring countries;" and, having originated
in the east, naturally followed this direction in its course towards England. On the other
hand, the sentiments of another, at least equally learned, author, the reverend Dr. Milner,
have been given on more than one occasion, that the architecture, commonly denominated Gothic,
really commenced in England, but did not appear till after the year 1130; the pointed arches
in the church of St. Cross, erected by Henry of Blois, bishop of Winchester, and brother of
King Stephen, being probably the earliest specimen of the kind that is any where to be found.
M. de Gerville combats this latter opinion, by adducing the churches of Mortain and of Coutances;
the first of them, like St. Cross, an example of the mixed style, its upper arches being semi-circular,
its lower pointed; the other, wholly of the latter description. The church of Mortain was founded
in 1082, and must have been sufficiently finished for the performance of divine worship, within
nine years after that period; as it is expressly recorded that Geoffrey de Montbray, bishop
of Coutances, who died in 1093, was present at the ceremony of the consecration. With regard
to the cathedral of Coutances, there is fortunately in existence a highly-curious document,
written by an eye-witness to the building of the church, and printed in the Gallia Christiana[208]
from the black book or chartulary of the diocese, which was compiled by order of John d'Essey,
who wore the mitre in the middle of the thirteenth century. The memoir commences by reciting
a portion of the hardships undergone by the see of Coutances, in common with other parts of
the north of France, from the Norman invasion; and then tells how Herbert II. who succeeded
to the episcopal throne in 1020, expelled, as useless and illiterate, the canons in possession
of the church of Coutances, and took the whole of the ecclesiastical revenues into his own
hands, because "sibi minùs urbani minùsque faceti videbantur!" It goes on to state, that his
successor, Robert, far from restoring what had been seized under so extraordinary a plea, alienated
the property by parcelling it out among his kindred; but that, notwithstanding this, a beginning
was made in his time towards the erection of the church, which was founded by the Countess
Gonora, widow of Duke Richard II. with the aid of contributions from various quarters.[209]

To Robert, in the year of our Lord, 1048, succeeded the celebrated Geoffrey de Montbray, who
finally completed the great work commenced by his predecessor. The first stone of the cathedral
had been laid in 1030; the dedication took place in 1056, and was performed in the presence
of the Duke himself, the archbishop, his suffragans, and a large proportion of the Norman nobility.
Some English barons likewise crossed the sea to attend upon the occasion. The vigor of Geoffrey's
character was never more strikingly exemplified, than in connection with this fabric.[210]
In the earliest years of his prelacy, he undertook a voyage to Apulia, for the express purpose
of obtaining from Robert Guischard, and his companions in arms, pecuniary assistance towards
the building; and, during the whole course of a long life, he appears to have been unremitting
in his endeavors to add whatever might contribute to its dignity, its splendour, and its utility.[211]
The following lines, traced by his dying hand, well mark the man himself, and the temper of
the age, and the prevalence of the ruling passion:--"Gaufridus, misericordia Dei, Constantiensis
episcopus, omnibus sub christiana regeneratione degentibus, tam clericis quam laïcis, salutem,
prosperitatem et pacem. Constantiensem ecclesiam quam hucusque licet indigne tenueram, tamen
miserante Deo, populo meæ pravitatis augmentum et honorare studui, et extrema...... eam amplius
factis adjuvare nequeo verbis quantum tutari et defensare cupio. Quicumque igitur qui sub christiana
professione vocatus, præfatam ecclesiam honorare, consolari et defensare voluerit, auctoritate
Domini nostri Jesu Christi ejusque sanctissimæ genetricis, in apostolica nostraque confirmatione
benedictus, ab eodem Domino nostro Jesu Christo omnium bonorum retributore mercedem recipiat
in futuro, et anima ejus inter choros angelorum et archangelorum, apostolorum et martyrum,
confessorum et virginum requiem possideat in paradiso. Quod si aliquis irreverens et contumeliosus,
avaritiæ vel cupiditatis stimulis agitatus, eam de terris suis, sive legibus et consuetudinibus,
sive ornamentis absque justa et necessaria eidem ecclesiæ ratione et clericorum assensione,
minorari et decurtare præsumpserit, ab his omnibus suprascriptis ordinibus maledictus, et perpetuæ
damnationis anathemate circumseptus, priusquam vita decedat terribilissimi divini examinis
judicio prosequente, omnibus in commune tanti sacrilegii violator appareat, et in perpetuum
cum Juda traditore, et Herode, Pilato et Caipha, cunctisque sanctæ ecclesiæ adversariis ignem
æternum possideat, semperque cum diabolo et angelis ejus crucietur, nec ullam in secula seculorum
misericordiæ scintillam mereatur, nisi priusquam anima illa tenebrosa de corpore exierit resipuerit,
et ad satisfactionem venerit. Fiat, amen."

And the clergy were not wanting in their endeavors to do honor to the memory of so noble a
benefactor. As the Roman historians and the Mantuan bard concur in attesting the various prodigies
that foretold the approaching end of Julius Cæsar, so the monkish chroniclers relate that earth
and sky united in presaging the death of Geoffrey; and, though they could not succeed in obtaining
for his name admission into the calendar, they would allow of no doubt as to his reception
into heaven; the details of which were communicated in a vision to one of the monks of Cerisy.--"There
appeared to me," said the monk, "a palace of transcendent magnificence, in which a queen was
seated, of more than earthly beauty, surrounded by a numerous court; and, while each in his
turn was making his obeisance, suddenly a messenger arrived, exclaiming aloud, 'Madam, Geoffrey,
bishop of Coutances, is here, and is at this moment mounting the steps of the palace.' No sooner
were the tidings heard, than she descended from her seat to meet the prelate; and, having welcomed
him with a most gracious salutation, caused her attendants to disrobe him of his cope and boots,
and then, taking the veil from her own head, wiped the wounds upon his body, and, leading him
by the hand, conducted him to her room of state, and placed him near to herself upon the throne."
The decease of the prelate, which took place on the following day, left no doubt as to the
interpretation or the inspiration of the vision.

Of the identity of the church built by Geoffrey with that now standing, it is impossible to
entertain a reasonable doubt. The details, and they are many, contained in the document above
quoted, all correspond with the present building. A still more decisive proof is afforded by
the silence of succeeding historians, who could never have passed unnoticed so important a
fact as the rebuilding of a cathedral, the repairs of which they have recorded on various occasions.
The principal of these took place during the prelacy of Sylvester de la Corvelle, and were
occasioned by the wars of Edward III. in the course of which, the edifice incurred the most
imminent danger, and would probably have been destroyed in 1356, had not the timely arrival
of the French troops caused the invading army to raise the siege of the city. A battering ram,
used upon that occasion, was still shewed in Coutances, in the beginning of the last century.
The king of France bestowed upon the chapter, in 1372, a sum of six hundred livres, in gold,
for the express purpose of repairing the church, "bellis attritâ et imminutâ." At that time
the Lady-Chapel was added; the great windows were inserted in the aisles; the exterior part
of the choir towards the palace was built; and a portion of the work of the western front,
between the towers, was repaired, and probably altered. This last has in particular tended
to mislead the antiquary;--but to sum up the account, in the words of M. de Gerville,--"En
y regardant plus attentivement, un antiquaire exercé facilement démêlera l'ancienne partie
de l'édifice, qui est encore de beaucoup la plus considérable. Cette ancienne partie offre
un modèle bien caractérisé de fenêtres en lancettes. C'est surtout aux deux tours occidentales
qu'on en voit des plus étroites. Celles de la tour, ou lanterne, sont géminées. Ces lancettes,
que les antiquaires Anglois rapportent au regne de Henry II. se montrent ici dans un édifice
antérieur à ce prince de prés d'un siècle; et, ce qui est encore plus surprénant, elles y sont
sans aucun mélange d'architecture Romane ou Saxonne."[212]

In the interior of the building, (plate ninety-four) the same uniformity of style prevails
as in the exterior; and if, in conjunction with the cathedral of Coutances, be considered that
of Lisieux, a contemporary building, and so much alike in character, that it may reasonably
be doubted if they were not the production of the same architect, it will scarcely be assuming
too much, to say that the date of the introduction of the pointed architecture in France, may
safely be placed as early as the middle of the eleventh century.

NOTES:

[204] Abrégé de l'Histoire des Evêques de Coutances, p. 48.

[205] At that time, its length was twenty-five leagues, and its width ten, without comprising
the islands of Guernsey and Jersey, over which it still held a titular sway. In it were included
the district of the Côtentin; the city of Coutances; the towns of St. Lo, Granville, Carentan,
Vallognes, and Cherbourg; twenty-four smaller market towns; four archdeaconries; twenty-two
rural deaneries; ten abbeys; twenty-four other convents; and five hundred and fifty parishes.
The chapter consisted of twenty-six canons and eight dignitaries.

[206] The following are the words of Robertus Cenalis upon this subject:--"Carolo, Ludovici
XI. germano, quorundam procerum principumque suggestione ducatum Normanniæ non precario, sed
vi impense ambiente, cum via sibi per posticum episcopalis domus aperta esset, rex idcirco
indignatus incolis qui a fide defecerant, cavit decreto suo in poenam criminis, quod funditus
a solo everterentur civitatis moenia, quæ nulla vel pretii, vel precum sollicitatione restitui
potuerunt."--Cenalis then proceeds to say,--"Habet in templi sui meditullio merito suspiciendum
spectaculum miræ architecturæ contextum, e cujus abside si quis lapillum dejecerit, nunquam
a puncto designato ultra citrave dimovebitur instar laternæ vitreæ in sublime erectum: vitream
arcem merito dixeris, opus sane venustum et elegans. Urbem præterea insigniter ornat aquæductus
ad milliaris semissem, ingenti impensa et opera arcuatim suppositis fornicibus longo ductu
protensus, cujus artificii ope civitas alluitur et rigatur. Denique si moenibus conclusa foret,
quis vetet civitatem illam Constantinopolim Neustriæ maritimæ appellari!"--Gallia Christiana,
p. 863.

[207] In the following part of the description of the church of Coutances, considerable use
has been made of a manuscript dissertation, kindly communicated by M. de Gerville to the author,
who only laments that the limits of this publication would not allow him to insert it entire.

[208] Among the Instrumenta Ecclesiæ Constantiensis, p. 218.

[209] "Hujus tamen temporibus incoepta et ex parte constructa est Constantiensis ecclesia,
fundante et coadjuvante Gonorra comitissa, auxiliantibus etiam canonicis, reditibus medietatis
altaris ad tempus operi concessis, cooperantibus quoque baronibus et parochianis fidelibus,
quod usque hodie contestantur aliquot ipsorum nomina insculpta lapidibus in ecclesiæ arcubus."--Gallia
Christiana, Inst. p. 218.

[210] "Anno igitur Dominicæ Incarnationis, MXLVIII. duodecim tantum diebus ipsius anni restantibus,
id est IV idus Aprilis, indictione II, venerandus Gaufridus post Robertum Constantiensis episcopus
Rotomagi consecratur, nobilium baronum prosapia ortus, statura procerus, vultu decorus, prudentia
consilioque providus, quanquam sæpissime curialibus negotiis regiisque obsecundationibus irretitus,
tamen ad ædificationem et incrementum ecclesiæ suæ omni nisu et voluntate per noctem erat et
per diem, qui ut eandem ecclesiam celebrem gloriosamque restitueret, in Apuliam et Calabriam
adire Robertum cognomine Guischardum parochianum suum, aliosque barones consanguineos suos,
et alumnos, et notos peregre profectus, multum in auro, et argento, et gemmis, et palliis variisque
divitiarum donariis acquisivit, tresque asportavit phialas plenas puro opobalsamo, aliaque
pretiosissima quibus postea præfatam ecclesiam intus et extus locupletavit, majoremque crucifixum
largis sumtibus et tempore longo construxit. Cum autem non haberet in civitate, sive in suburbio
tantum possessionis ecclesia, ubi maneret episcopus, vel proprius equus ejus posset stabulari,
sed neque propriam domum, nisi quoddam appendicium humile, quod pendebat de parietibus ecclesiæ,
ipse prudentia sua et probitate valentiorem medietatem civitatis, suburbii, et telonei, et
vectigalis, cum molendinis et multa Grimoldi viaca a Guillelmo invictissimo duce Normannorum,
postea quoque glorioso rege Anglorum trecentis libris comparavit et acquietavit. Postea vero
episcopalem aulam et reliquas officinas construxit, virgultum et vineam non modicam plantavit,
capitium navis ecclesiæ cum area, et hinc inde duo majora capitia nobiliora et ampliora construxit.
Duas turres posteriores a fundamentis, tertiamque supra chorum opere spectabili sublimavit,
in quibus classicum consonans et pretiosum imposuit, et hæc omnia plumbo cooperuit."--Gallia
Christiana, Inst. p. 218.

[211] The instrument, above quoted, abounds in examples of this spirit. Among the rest, after
detailing at length various estates which he had purchased or obtained as presents for the
enriching of his church, it proceeds to say,--"Cæterum ornamenta ecclesiastica et ustencilia,
calices, cruces, capsas, phylacteria, candelabra, thuribula, bacinos, siculam et ampullas aurea
contulit et argentea, casulas quoque, dalmaticas, tunicas, planetas, albas, cappas mirifici
operis, necnon dorsalia serica et lanea, cortinas et tapeta, sed et bibliothecas, passionales,
omeliares, missales aureis litteris duos sufficientesque et competentes libros subrogavit:
super hæc omnia pretiosum famosumque clerum, quo nihil pretiosius in ecclesia et utilius in
officium et servitium divini cultus delegavit, septemque canonicos quos episcopus Hugo Rotomagi
in ecclesia S. Laudi irregulariter constituerat, apostolica auctoritate ecclesiæ matri revocavit,
itemque duos alios adjecit. Cantorem quoque, et succentorem, et rectorem scholarum, et custodes
ecclesiæ, clericos quoque præbendarios, aurifabros, fabrumque ferrarium, carpentarios et magistrum
coementarium in opus ecclesiæ constituit. O virum prudentem et domui suæ bene præsidentem,
qui de vivis et electis lapidibus domum suam composuit, et mirabilibus columnis eam sustentavit!"--Gallia
Christiana, Inst. p. 219.

[212] The following remarks upon the architecture of the cathedral of Coutances, transcribed
from the journal of a most able friend of the author's, cannot fail to be acceptable to the
reader:--"The cathedral is most singular in its aspect. It is pointed throughout, except the
circular arches in the vaulting over the side-chapels, and one or two segments of circles which
form the door-ways, within the porches on the north and south sides. It is really a difficult
task to come at any conclusion respecting the æra of the building, from an inspection of it.
If it is of the Norman age, then the pointed style arose at once from a transfusion of Arabian
or Tartarian architecture. The whole is of a piece, complete in conception and execution; and
there are no intersecting arches from which a pointed arch may have arisen. The circles in
the spandrils are in the same oriental style as at Bayeux. The peculiarities of the cathedral
are--the side-porches close behind the towers; the screens of mullioned tracery, which divide
the side-chapels; and the excessive height of the choir, which, having no triforium, has only
a balustrade just before the clerestory windows. The centre tower is wonderfully fine in the
exterior: it is apparently an expansion of the plain Norman lantern, as at Caen; but most airy
and graceful. There is a double aisle round the ambit and altars are placed in the bays, as
if they were distinct chapels, for which purpose they were originally intended; but the line
continues unbroken. The perspective of these aisles, and also of the choir, seen from the Lady-Chapel,
is very fine. The round pillars of the choir are double, as at Canterbury and Senlis. The apsis
is half a duodecagon. The pointed windows above are in two lancet divisions, surmounted by
a trefoil; but the dividing masonry is not a mullion: it is the unperforated part of the wall.
This perhaps is arabesque. There is a second arch within, which is really divided by a mullion
or small pillar. A curious leaf projects above. Some of the painted glass is in the oldest
style: dispersed patterns in a black outline, on a grey ground. In a side-chapel are painted
tiles, brown and yellow as usual, displaying knots and armorial bearings. In the same chapel
are fresco paintings: many more are on the east side of the wall that divides the last choir-aisle
from the south transept. They represent St. Michael and the Devil, the Deity between angels,
&c. In all of them, the outline is formed by a thick black line."

PLATE XCV. AND XCVI.

MOUNT ST. MICHAEL.

Religion, history, poetry, and painting, have all united in giving celebrity to St. Michael's
Mount. The extraordinary sanctity of its monastery, the striking peculiarities of its form
and situation, and the importance acquired by the many sieges it supported, or the almost endless
pilgrimages it received, have so endeared it to the man of taste and the philosopher, that
scarcely a spot is to be found in Europe, more generally known, or more universally interesting.

The legendary mist with which St. Michael's Mount is now densely involved, has continued, from
a period of remote antiquity, to float around its summit. Tradition delights in relating how,
in times prior to the Christian æra, it was devoted to the worship of the great luminary of
heaven, under his Gallic name of Belenus,[213] a title probably derived from the Hebrew Baal,
and the Assyrian Belus. The same tradition recounts how, at a more recent epoch, it reared
its majestic head, embosomed in a spacious tract of woods and thickets, while the hermits who
had fixed themselves upon its summits, received their daily bread from the charity of the priest
of the neighboring parish of Beauvoir; an ass spontaneously undertaking the office of conveying
it to them, till on the road he fell a prey to a wolf, who was then constrained by Providence
to devote himself to the same pious labor.

At length, about the year 709, it was decreed that the rock should at once change its designation
and its patron. To the clouds of Paganism, succeeded the sun of Christianity; and the original
heathen appellation, Tumba, was replaced by one of the most elevated names of holy writ. St.
Michael, "the chief of the angels and of the host of heaven, the protector of the Hebrew synagogue
of yore, as now of the Catholic church, the conqueror of the old serpent, and the leader of
souls to heaven," condescended to be worshipped here upon the western coast, as on Mount Garganus
in the east, and with this view appeared to St. Aubert, then bishop of Avranches, commanding
him to erect a church to his honor upon the mount. Another legend relates, how there had previously
existed upon the same spot, a religious edifice, which had passed under the name of the Monasterium
ad duas Tumbas, being equally appropriated to the adjoining rock of Tombeleine. However this
may have been, it is admitted on all sides that a church was built, and that the hill knew
thenceforth no other name than that of St. Michael's Mount; though Aubert, tardy in his belief,
had refused to obey the injunction, till it had been repeated three several times, upon the
last of which, the archangel touched the head of the saint, and left imprinted in his skull
the marks of his fingers, which the author, here quoted, relates that he himself saw, to his
great delight, in the years 1612 and 1641.

To the miraculous vision, succeeded other occurrences of similar import. A tethered bull pointed
out the spot where the holy edifice should be erected, and at the same time circumscribed its
limits; a rock, that opposed the progress of the workmen, and was immoveable by human art,
spontaneously withdrew at the touch of an infant's foot; and the earth opening, on being struck
with St. Aubert's staff, gave birth to a spring of water, at once of the utmost use to the
inhabitants, and gifted with the most sanative powers. At about the same period also, the sea
ingulphed the neighboring forests,[214] insulating the rock; so that three messengers, who
had been dispatched to Mount Garganus, thence to bring a portion of red cloth, the gift of
St. Michael, together with a fragment of the stone on which he himself had sate, found on their
return the aspect of things so changed, that "they thought they must have entered into a new
world."

History, from this period, assumes a character of comparative authenticity. The Norman conquest
threatened for awhile the extinction of Christianity: the baptism of Rollo, rekindling its
dying embers, made them blaze forth with a light and warmth unknown before. The duke himself,
on the fourth day after he had presented himself at the holy font, endowed the monastery of
St. Michael, then styled "ecclesiam in periculo maris supra montem positam."--No further mention
occurs of the convent, during the reign of this monarch, or of his son, William Longue-Epée;
but their immediate successor, Richard I. amply atoned for any neglect on their part. He built,
according to Dudo of St. Quentin, a church of wondrous size, together with spacious buildings,
for a body of monks of the Benedictine order, whom he established there in 988, displacing
the regular canons, whose irregular lives had been the subject of much scandal. This munificence
on the part of Richard, has even caused him to be regarded by some writers as the founder of
the convent.--His son and successor, of the same name, selected St. Michael's Mount, as the
favored spot, where, in the beginning of his reign, he received the hand of the fair Judith,
sister to Geoffrey, one of the principal counts of Brittany. An opportunity was almost immediately
afterwards afforded him of testifying at once his liberality and his devotion, as well as his
love; for, on the first year of the eleventh century, the church, which had then been completed
only five years, was burned to the ground. The prince, however, appears to have been somewhat
tardy on the occasion; no attempt was made towards replacing the loss, till Hildebert II. succeeded
as abbot. During his prelacy, in 1022, the foundations of a new church were laid, upon a still
more extensive scale.--Twenty-six years more were suffered to elapse, and the abbatial mitre
had adorned the brows of four successive abbots, when Ralph de Beaumont witnessed the completion
of the work.

The church then built is expressly stated by the authors of the Gallia Christiana, to be the
same as was in existence at the time of the publication of that work;[215] and M. de Gerville
confirms their remark by his own personal observation, at least as far as relates to the nave.
This indeed has been shortened of late; but he is persuaded, that whatever still remains is
really of the architecture of the days of Duke Richard.--Robert, the following duke, repaired
to St. Michael's Mount, to superintend his forces, upon the occasion of the revolt of Alain,
Count of Dol; and it was hither, also, that the archbishop of Rouen brought the humbled count,
to make his peace with his offended sovereign.--At the period of the conquest, the monks of
St. Michael furnished six transports towards that eventful expedition; and when, after the
death of William, the dominion over the mount passed by purchase from Robert to Henry, they
distinguished themselves by their attachment to their new sovereign, who here supported a siege
on the part of his two elder brothers, and was finally driven to surrender only by famine.
The elder of these brothers, at an advanced period of his life, re-visited the church in a
far different guise; and, to discharge his vows to the archangel for his safe return from the
crusade, prostrated himself before the shrine which he had erst assaulted with the fury of
his arms.--The year 1158 was, almost above every other, memorable in the history of St. Michael's
Mount. Henry Plantagenet, who, two years before, had there received the homage of his subjects
of Brittany, then returned in pilgrim weeds, accompanied by Louis VII. whose repudiated wife,
Eleanor of Aquitaine, he had married; and the two monarchs, attended by a numerous throng of
secular nobility, as well as by several cardinals, archbishops, and bishops, kneeled in amity
at the holy altar.

During the reign of the ill-starred John, St. Michael's Mount passed, in common with the rest
of Normandy, under the sceptre of France, and suffered severely upon the occasion. Guy of Thouars,
then in alliance with Philip-Augustus, advanced against it at the head of an army of Britons;
and, experiencing on the part of the inhabitants but a feeble resistance, set fire to the palisades,
the principal defence of the place. The flames communicated to the houses; and the church also
fell a prey to them. To use the words of Brito,

                                "vis ignea sursùm
    Scandit, et ecclesiæ decus omne, locumque sacratum,
    Resque monasterii cremat insatiabilis omnes."

Philip lamented the injury, and did all in his power to repair it; but, considering that one
great source of the misfortunes of the holy place had sprung from the impiety of the Anglo-Norman
monarchs, in placing their trust in ramparts made by human hands, rather than in the protection
of the archangel, he levelled with the ground the few works of defence that remained.[216]
His pious successor, the sainted Louis, was far from entertaining a similar feeling. On the
other hand, when his devotion led him to the shrine of St. Michael, after returning from his
unfortunate expedition to Damietta, the chronicles expressly state, that he placed, with his
own hand, a considerable sum of money upon the altar, for the purpose of repairing the fortifications.
And it appears probable that, at a period not very distant, the money thus expended stood the
crown of France in good stead; for, during the war at the beginning of the fifteenth century,
St. Michael's Mount was the only place that successfully resisted the English arms. The siege
it supported upon that occasion, is one of the few brilliant events that give lustre to a period
of French history, generally dark and gloomy. Two cannon, of prodigious size, constructed for
the discharge of stone balls, above a foot in diameter, testify to the present moment the heroic
defence of the garrison, and the defeat of the assailants.

At a subsequent period of French history, during the times when party, under the mask of pious
zeal, deluged the kingdom with blood, and virtuous men of every creed joined in the lamentation,
that "tantum Religio potuit suadere malorum," the Huguenots made many and most brave and memorable,
though vain, attempts to render themselves masters of St. Michael's Mount. From that time forward,
the rock has been suffered to continue in tranquillity, though still retaining its character
as a fortification. Its designation of late has been a departmental prison: during the reign
of terror, it was applied to the disgraceful purpose of serving as a receptacle for three hundred
ecclesiastics, whose age or infirmities would not allow of their being transported; and who,
with cruel mockery, were incarcerated within the walls, long gladdened with the comforts, dignified
with the pomp, and sanctified with the holiness of religion. Prisoners of importance, especially
those charged with crimes against the state, were chiefly confined here before the revolution,
when the iron cage, and the vaults, known by the ominous names of the Oubliettes, or the In
Pace, gave the mount a melancholy notoriety.

In this short outline of the history of St. Michael's Mount, mention has been repeatedly made
of French sovereigns who have proceeded thither in pilgrimage. The task were long to enumerate
all those princes and monarchs who distinguished it with this mark of their veneration. But
there is one other instance too important in its consequences to be passed over in silence.
Louis XI. after having expelled the rebellious Britons from Normandy in 1463, not content with
paying his devotions to the archangel at his shrine, and bestowing upon the monks a donation
of six hundred crowns of gold, sent them the image of St. Michael, together with the golden
chain that he had himself worn upon his neck; and directed that the three escalop shells, formerly
borne upon the abbatial shield, should be enriched by the addition of four others, and three
lilies. Nor satisfied with this, he, six years afterwards, still further testified his devotion,
by various privileges granted to the community, and by the institution of the noble military
order of St. Michael,[217] whose collar was composed of silver escalop shells, while the medal
bore a representation of the archangel trampling upon the dragon, with the legend, "Immensi
tremor oceani."--Even in this enlightened age, the concourse of pilgrims to the mount is by
no means at an end: they are still to be seen repairing to the church; and, if the female Druids
have ceased for many a century to sell to the sailors their enchanted arrows, of power to still
the angry ocean, when hurled into its waves by a maiden hand, the Pythonesses of the present
day find a no less plentiful source of emolument in their chaplets, and rosaries, and crosses,
and medals, of St. Michael. The annals of the world abound in details of the changes of form
and feature which superstition has assumed in different ages; but it is humiliating to human
nature to reflect, that the conquests obtained by philosophy over her great adversary, are
in reality very small. Superstition, like the fabled Proteus, appears under an endless variety
of forms; but she is also, like the god, still one and the same.

The list of abbots of St. Michael's Mount, contains names of the highest consequence in France:
the Cardinal d'Estouteville, and the still more illustrious Cardinal de Joyeuse, Henry of Lorraine,
son of the Duke de Guise, and Charles Maurice, of the noble family of Broglio, have, in times
comparatively modern, presided over the community. The privileges and honorary distinctions
attached to the office, were also considerable. The names of the superiors of the monastery
stand recorded on various occasions, as men selected for important trusts; and they were formally
empowered, by a bull of Pope Clement VII. dated from Avignon, to bestow the benediction, even
in the church of Avranches, and in the presence of the bishop or the metropolitan himself,
and to wear the mitre, and all other episcopal insignia. The powers and immunities of the convent
were likewise extensive and important. Its annual income was estimated by the author of the
Alien Priories, in the middle of the last century, at forty thousand livres; but it is at the
same time stated in that work, that, at an earlier period, it was far more considerable. Among
the transmarine possessions of the abbey, was its namesake in Cornwall, which was annexed to
it by Robert, Earl of Moreton and Cornwall, before the year 1085, and was also renowned for
its sanctity at a very remote epoch. The coincidence in form and situation between the two
is most remarkable.

St. Michael's Mount, in Normandy, is situated near the extremity of the province, towards Brittany;
to the south of Granville, the south-west of Avranches, and the north of Pontorson and Dol.
It is a conical mass of granite, which, from a base of about one-fourth of a league in circumference,
towers to the height of above four hundred feet, including the buildings that crown its summit.
It stands insulated and alone, except the neighboring rock of Tombeleine, in the midst of a
dreary level of white sand, that presents a surface of more than twelve square leagues, extending
on all sides, almost as far as the eye can reach, and unvaried, unless where it is intersected
with branches of different rivers. The whole of this space is at high water entirely covered
with the sea, while the receding tide leaves it bare; yet still so, that it is difficult and
dangerous to traverse it without a guide. The base of the mount is surrounded with high thick
walls, flanked with semi-circular towers all machicolated, and bastions. Towards the west and
north, its sides present only steep, black, bare, pointed rocks: the portions that lie in an
opposite direction, incline in a comparatively easy slope, and are covered with houses that
follow in successive lines, leaving but a scanty space for some small gardens, in which the
vine, the fig-tree, and the almond, flourish in great luxuriance. The walls of the castellated
abbey impend, and jut out in bold decided masses; and the whole is crowned by the florid choir
of the abbey church. The architects of the latter time seemed to have wished to adapt this
glorious building to its site. All its divisions of parts, windows, and pinnacles, are narrower
and more lofty than usual; and the projections are bolder, so as to be distinctly visible from
below. The stranger is admitted to the mount by a gate, of the time of Louis XII. or Francis
I. He proceeds along the walls, which continue leading upwards; and, traversing desolate towers,
and staircases above staircases, hanging on the sides of the rock, all forlorn, grassy, and
mouldering, he is conducted to the gate of the abbey. The outside of the first gate-way has
round towers: the second has a pointed arch. One pile of buildings has a row of small arches
round the top. The present population of the town amounts to about two hundred and fifty inhabitants,
who derive their chief support from the fishery.

Of the church itself, a view is given in the Bayeux tapestry; rude indeed, but curious, as
coeval.--The following is a short chronological summary of the principal events connected with
the building:--

In 1103, the roof fell in, and involved in its ruins a portion of the dormitory.

Ten years afterwards, on the twenty-third of April, 1113, the lightning set fire to the abbey,
which was wholly consumed, except the crypt and the great columns of the nave, and some other
parts of the church. Roger, then abbot, repaired the injury, rebuilding the refectory and the
dormitory, and the splendid apartment, called the Knights' Hall.

Bernard, who was abbot from 1135 to 1140, rebuilt the north part of the church, and erected
the tower between the nave and the choir.

Of the works done at the beginning of the thirteenth century, in consequence of the injuries
received by the church during the wars of Philip-Augustus, no particulars are preserved. It
is only said in general terms, that they were considerable.

Richard Turstin, abbot in 1275, began buildings upon an extensive scale, between the extremity
of the cloisters and the barracks.

On the thirteenth of July, 1300, the lightning again struck the church, and great part of it
was burned, and the bells melted, and many houses in the town reduced to ashes.

The chapel of St. John the Evangelist was added by John De la Porte, the twenty-seventh abbot,
who died in 1334.

In 1350, a fresh injury was sustained from a tempest; but so great was the zeal employed in
repairing it, that the monastery is said to have been, a very short time subsequently, in a
better state than it had almost ever been before: it raised its head, however, above these
misfortunes, only to experience new ones, and from the same source, in 1370. The damage was
then greater, but was soon repaired; and the chapel of St. Catherine was erected. This happened
during the prelacy of Geoffrey de Servin. Peter le Roy, the following abbot, is ranked among
the greatest benefactors to the convent: no one contributed more to the diffusion of its fame,
or the increase of learning within its precincts; but he does not appear to have done any thing
to its buildings. His successor, Robert Jolivet, surrounded the mount with the walls and towers
that now remain, with the view of defending it against the English, whom he afterwards joined.

In 1421, the whole roof of the choir fell in. The foundations of the new choir, the remains
of which are now standing, were laid by the Cardinal d'Estouteville, in 1452; and he continued
the work till his death, which happened thirty years afterwards. During his prelacy, the chapels
of the choir were completed, and roofed with lead; and the choir and the columns that surround
the high altar, were raised to the height of the chapels.

In 1509, another accident arose from lightning: the steeple, and the bells, and the wood-work
of the nave, were destroyed; but the damage was soon repaired by William de Lamps, then abbot,
who also built the abbatial palace and alms-house, and raised the part of the church that was
unfinished, as high as the second tier of windows.--The choir was completed under the prelacy
of his brother, John de Lamps, who was next but one to him in the succession, and wore the
mitre from 1513 to 1523.

From that time forward, till the period of the revolution, the abbacy of St. Michael's Mount
was held in commendam; and the abbots, regardless of a charge in which they did not feel themselves
personally concerned, ceased to bestow care or expense upon the buildings. Some of them even
refused to do the necessary repairs; and more than one instance is on record, where they resisted
the decrees of the Norman parliament to that effect.

From the preceding details, it will easily be imagined, that the church upon St. Michael's
Mount can scarcely fail to present a medley of different kinds of architecture. Two, however,
predominate: in the choir, which was finished at the beginning of the sixteenth century, all
is pointed and lofty: the naves and transepts are Norman. Beneath are crypts, which extend
under every part of the church, supported upon short columns with capitals of foliage, &c.
the arches mostly ribbed, and circular.

The shortening of the nave has destroyed the western front. The cloister, according to the
observations of a friend of the author, is strangely moresque in its appearance. The position
of the pillars in it he regards as quite unique.

The Knights' Hall, (see plate ninety-six,) is an arched chamber, ninety-eight feet in length,
by sixty-eight in width, noble and church-like in its aspect. Its groined stone roof rests
upon eighteen cylindrical columns, with bases and capitals; the latter, in very high relief,
of beautiful design and delicate execution.

NOTES:

[213] It may be allowed, that this idea receives a certain degree of confirmation from the
present name of the neighboring rock, Tombeleine, the natural derivation of which appears to
be Tumba Beleni.

[214] The tradition of the mount speaks of the monster that haunted the drowned forest; and
when the author's friend, Mr. Cohen, visited St. Michael's Mount in 1819, his guide, Jacques
Du Pont, referred to the subject, and called the beast "a monster of a Turk that ate the Christians."
The figure represented on the wrapper of this work, was pointed out as a figure of the identical
monster. It was formerly on the outside of the wall in a niche; it is now just within the gate.
"There," said Jacques, "look at his teeth and his claws; how savage he is."--The tradition
is certain; but the image is nothing more than a griffin grasping a shield charged with an
armorial bearing; its date 15..

[215] A. D. 1759.

[216] Of old, says Brito, the place

    ...... "satis angelicis gaudebat tutus haberi
    Præsidiis, nullo dispendia tempore passus;
    At simul ædificans muros ibi cura Johannis
    Prætulit humanas vires coelestibus armis,
    Quemque tuebatur coelesti milite Christus,
    Munivit sacrum humano munimine montem,
    Ex tunc causa loco pereundi inventa sacrato."

The author goes on to add, that the king

    ...... "ne fiat eis deinceps injuria talis,
    Præcipit ut pereat munitio toto Johannis;
    Et sua militiæ coelesti castra resignans,
    Humanis bonus excubiis locra sacra resignat,
    Largifluâque manu monachos juvat in renovando
    Sarta tecta, libros, et cætera quæ furor ignis
    Solverat in cinerem, quæ nobiliore paratu
    Quàm priùs extiterant jam restaurata videmus."

                                              Phillip. lib. 8, l. 114.

[217] In the preamble of the statutes of this order, the monarch expresses himself in the following
terms--"Nous, à la gloire de Dieu, notre créateur Tout-puissant, et revérence de glorieuse
Vierge Marie, et en l'honneur de Monseigneur St.-Michel Archange, premier Chevalier, qui pour
la querelle de Dieu, d'estoc et de taille, se battit contre l'ennemi dangereux de l'humain
lignage, et du Ciel le trébucha, et qui en son lieu et oratoire appellé Mont-St. Michel a toujours
particulièrement gardé, préservé et défendu, sans être pris, subjugué, ni mis ès mains des
anciens ennemis de notre royaume, et afin que tous bons et nobles courages soient excités et
plus particulièrement émus à toutes vertueuses oeuvres; le 1er. jour d'Août de l'an 1469 avons
créé, institué et ordonné, et par ces présentes créons, constituons et ordonnons un Ordre de
fraternité ou amiable compagnie de certain nombre de Chevaliers, jusqu'à trente six, lequel
nous voulons être nommé l'Ordre de Saint-Michel."

PLATE XCVII.

ABBEY CHURCH OF CERISY.

Cerisy, a small market-town, upon the road leading from Bayeux to St. Lo, and equally distant
about four leagues from each of those places, is wholly indebted to its abbey for the celebrity
it has enjoyed. In the secular history of the duchy, its name occurs upon only two occasions.
The lord of Cerisy is enumerated among the companions in arms of Robert, son of the Conqueror,
in his expedition to the Holy Land, in 1009; and the abbot of Cerisy was one of the twenty-one
ecclesiastics from the bailiwick of Caen, cited by Philip le Bel to the Norman exchequer, in
the beginning of the fourteenth century.

The convent, which was at all times of the Benedictine order, is said to have been founded
as early as the year 560. It was under the invocation of St. Vigor, ninth bishop of Bayeux;
and, according to some authors, was established by that saint himself. Du Monstier, in the
Neustria Pia, recites the history of its origin at great length: how the prelate, moved by
the entreaties of a rich man, of the name of Volusian, destroyed, by virtue of the sign of
the cross, a monstrous serpent that ravaged the country; and how Volusian, in gratitude, ceded
to him the domain of Cerisy, upon which he immediately erected a monastery, and endowed it
with the revenues of the property. The annals of the convent being lost, what is recorded of
its history is very short. After the general destruction of religious establishments by the
Saxons and Normans, that of Cerisy appears to have been left in its ruins far longer than most
others. No hand is said to have been lifted towards its restoration, till the reign of Robert,
father of the Conqueror. By him the monastic writers all agree that a beginning was made towards
the rebuilding of this monastery; and one of them, William of Jumieges, adds, that his care
of it suffered no diminution from time or distance; for that, during his wars in the Holy Land,
when the patriarch of Jerusalem rewarded his pious zeal with a present of some precious relics,
he immediately directed them to be here deposited. His more illustrious successor, in one of
the first years of his reign, completed and richly endowed the convent begun by his father,
whose remains he commanded should be brought from Palestine, for the express purpose of their
being interred at Cerisy. But they were allowed to proceed no further than Apulia. In the Neustria
Pia is preserved a charter of King Charles VI. dated 1398, in which the various donations conferred
upon the abbey of Cerisy, by the Norman Dukes, Robert, William, and Henry, are enumerated and
confirmed. Its annual income, in the middle of the eighteenth century, was estimated by De
Masseville at twenty thousand livres. The only property it appears ever to have possessed in
England, was a priory of Benedictine monks at West Shirburne, in Hampshire.

Architecturally considered, the church of Cerisy is an interesting relic of Norman workmanship.
The certainty of its date, not far removed from the year 1032, and the comparatively few alterations
it has undergone, render it one of those landmarks, by the aid of which the observer of the
present day can alone attain to any certainty in his inquiries into ancient art. And yet, in
the portion here selected for engraving, the upper row of windows is of an æra posterior to
the rest; and the great arch in front has evidently changed its semi-circular form for a pointed
one. Its height is unusual and impressive. Both taken collectively and in its parts, the church
bears a strong resemblance to that nearly coeval at St. Georges; like which, it is now appropriated
to parochial purposes, and is still of great size,[218] though the whole of the portion originally
parochial, and which extended one hundred and twenty-four feet beyond what remains of the nave,
has been recently pulled down. The principal front of the building, which faced the north,
its position being north and south, has been consequently destroyed. The style of the edifice
is characterized by a noble and severe simplicity: the capitals of the columns are, indeed,
enriched with sculptured foliage or animals, or occasionally with small heads placed in the
middle of a surface otherwise plain; but elsewhere the decorations are very sparingly distributed.
They are confined to the chevron and billet mouldings; the latter the most ancient and most
rare among the Norman ornaments. Both the transepts are parted off, as at St. Georges, by screens
near the extremities: these screens at Cerisy are surmounted by an elegant parapet of semi-circular
arches, a singular and very beautiful addition.

NOTES:

[218] The following are the dimensions of the church, according to Mr. Cotman.

                                                          FEET.
  Length of the nave                                         98
  Ditto of choir                                             64
  Ditto of transepts and intervening part of the nave       118
  Width of nave                                              73
  Ditto of transepts                                         31
  Ditto of choir, without the side-chapels                   28
  Height of nave                                             70

Before the demolition of the western extremity, the nave was two hundred and twenty-six feet
long, and the total length of the building two hundred and ninety feet.

PLATE XCVIII.

CHURCH AT OYESTRAHAM.

Oyestraham, or, as it is more commonly written, Estreham, is a village situated upon the left
bank of the Orne, near its confluence with the channel. Its name, derived from the Saxon,[219]
seems to point it out as a settlement made by those daring invaders: its church, one of the
first objects that presents itself to the English traveller, on his entering France in the
direction of Caen, is well calculated to impress him with a forcible idea of the magnificence
of the Norman lords of the duchy. That it was built in the time of their sway, is a fact which
cannot be doubted; but, in an architectural point of view, it is so full of anomalies, that
opinions would be likely to vary considerably with regard to the actual date of its erection.
And here, unfortunately, no records remain to guide the judgment. In the western front, indeed!
(the subject of the plate) the whole is of the semi-circular style, and uniform. The upper
tier of arches will find a parallel in the towers of the abbey of Jumieges, built during the
reign of the Conqueror; and most of the other members and decorations are of frequent occurrence
in erections of the same æra. A peculiarity is alone observable in the smaller arches of the
second row, in which the artist has indulged himself in what may be termed an architectural
conceit, lengthening, to a very disproportionate degree, and almost in the moorish fashion,
the part above the capital, in order that the whole might range in a line with the larger arch
in the centre. The truncated appearance of the wall on either side, leads to the obvious inference,
that either this front had originally towers, like the church of St. Nicholas, at Caen, or
that it was intended there should have been such. A central tower now alone remains, of square
form, with massive buttresses of unusual size, projecting towards the south. This tower, as
well as the portion of the church to the east of it, exhibits the Norman and Gothic architecture
mixed in a very uncommon manner. Of three rows of arches, the lowest and highest belong to
the latter style; the central one only to the former. In the nave, all is Norman, excepting
only two lancet windows of the upper tier, placed near the west end, on the south side, and
excepting also the flying buttresses that extend from between the windows of the clerestory
to the projecting aisles below. Within the choir, the trefoil-headed arch takes, in some instances,
the place of the pointed in the lower row, which is wholly blank; and the capitals of the pillars,
according to Mr. Cotman, shew an extraordinary playfulness of design. The arches above them
are pierced for windows. Both the semi-circular ones of the second tier, and the pointed ones
above, are extremely narrow, seen from without, but widen greatly within; the wall being of
more than ordinary thickness. The piers of the nave are six feet five inches in diameter, while
the intervening spaces scarcely exceed ten feet.

NOTES:

[219] On this subject, see Huet, Origines de Caen, p. 299.--"Estreham est le nom d'un bourg
situé à l'embouchure de l'Orne, et d'un autre dans le Bessin. Mr. Bochart le faisoit, venir
d'Easter, Déesse des anciens Saxons. Et comme il avoit entrepris de rapporter les anciennes
origines à la langue et à la doctrine des Phéniciens il prétendoit que cette Easter étoit la
même qu'Astarté. Ses sacrifices se faisoient au commencement du printems; et de la vient que
les Saxons appellerent Easter le mois auquel se célebre la Pâque. Skinnerus ne s'éloigne pas
beaucoup de ce sentiment dans son Etymologique de la langue Angloise. Mr. Valois tire le nom
d'Estreham du Latin Strata, et de l'Allemand Hamum, pour marquer une Demeure bâtie sur un chemin
public, ou au bout d'un chemin public, comme si le bourg d'Estreham étoit sur un grand chemin,
ou au bout d'un chemin public: et qu'il ne fût pas sur une extrêmité de terre qui ne mene à
rien, ayant la mer d'un côté, et l'embouchure de la riviere d'Orne de l'autre: ou comme si
tous les villages du monde ne pouvoient pas être censez terminer des grand chemins. Mais ces
opinions sont détruites par l'ancienne orthographe du nom d'Estreham, qui est constamment écrit
dans les vieux Titres, et par Mr. de Bras, Oistreham, pour Westerham, c'est-à-dire, Village
Occidental: car il se trouve placé à l'West de l'embouchure de l'Orne."

PLATE XCIX. AND C.

CATHEDRAL CHURCH AT SÉEZ.

The city of Séez, though dignified by being the seat of a bishopric, is in itself small and
unimportant, its population not exceeding five thousand five hundred inhabitants. Of the early
history of either the town or the diocese, little is known with certainty; and authors have
scarcely felt it worth their while to exercise their ingenuity, or to display their learning,
upon a subject ill calculated to add dignity to their researches. Those who have entered upon
the inquiry, have given it as their opinion, that the Civitas Sagiorum, mentioned in the earliest
Notitia Galliæ, as the fifth in rank among the cities of the province, Lugdunensis Secunda,
was no other than the modern Séez; and, carrying their conjecture one step farther, they have
inferred from locality, that the Sagii, otherwise called Saii, must have been the Sesuvii of
Cæsar's Commentaries. Hence, in more modern Latinity, Séez has generally acquired the name
of Sagium; though Ordericus Vitalis occasionally calls it Salarium, and Magno, Saius. In some
maps it is likewise styled Saxia, whence an idea has arisen that it owed its origin to the
Saxons; and that the words, Saii and Sagii, were in reality nothing more than a corruption
of Saxones or Sassones.

The favorers of this opinion have brought Séez within the limits of the Otlingua Saxonia, a
district in Normandy, whose situation and extent has been the subject of much literary controversy.
The learned Huet, alluding to this very point,[220] observes, with great justice, that "it
is more easy to tell what is not, than what is; and that, though the limits of bishoprics serve
in general to mark the divisions of the ancient Gallic tribes, yet length of time has introduced
many alterations. Able men," he adds, "have been of opinion, that Hiesmes was originally an
episcopal see, and that its diocese was afterwards dismembered into three archdeaconries; one
of them fixed at Séez, a second at Lisieux, and a third at Bayeux." Such, however, he says,
is not his own belief; but he thinks that Hiesmes was originally the seat of the bishopric
of Séez. A report to the same effect will be found in the Concilia Normannica; and it is adopted
by Rouault,[221] who argues in its favor; first, that Séez was too insignificant, at the time
of the preaching of the gospel in Neustria, to be dignified with the presence of a bishop;
the apostles and earliest popes having directed that bishops should only be appointed to considerable
towns: and, secondly, that Hiesmes was really then a place of importance, and probably continued
so till the nineteenth year of the reign of King Henry I. of England, when that prince destroyed
it, as a punishment upon the inhabitants for their revolt.

Ecclesiastical history refers the establishment of the bishopric of Séez to the fourth or fifth
century. The earliest, however, of the prelates, of whom any certain mention is to be found,
is Litaredus, whose name appears, under the title of Oximensis Episcopus, subscribed to the
council of Orleans in 511. Azo, who succeeded to the mitre in one of the last years of the
tenth century, erected the first cathedral that is upon record at Séez. William of Jumieges
relates of him, that he destroyed the walls of the city, and with their stones built a church
in honor of St. Gervais, the martyr, "ubi sedes episcopalis longo post tempore fuerat." The
same author tells that, in consequence of this church having been turned into a place of refuge
by some rebels, about fifty years afterwards, Ivo, the third from Azo upon the episcopal throne,
set fire to the adjoining houses for the purpose of dislodging them, and the church fell a
victim to the flames. The act, though unintentional, brought upon the prelate a severe reprimand
from the pope; and Ivo, to repair his fault, undertook a journey to his relatives and friends
in Apulia and Constantinople, whence he returned, loaded with rich presents, by the aid of
which he undertook the erection of a new church upon so large a scale, that "his successors,
Robert, Gerard, and Serlo, were unable to complete it in fifty years." The cathedral then raised
is said to be the same as is now standing; and, according to what has already been recorded
of the cathedrals of Lisieux and Coutances, there is nothing in its architecture to discredit
such an opinion. The first stone was laid about the year 1053: the dedication took place in
1126. Godfrey, archbishop of Rouen, performed the ceremony in the presence of Henry, then duke,
who, at the same time, endowed the church with an annual income of ten pounds.

The diocese of Séez is surrounded by those of Lisieux, Evreux, Mans, and Bayeux. According
to De Masseville,[222] it extended, before the revolution, twenty-five leagues in length, and
from eight to ten in width, comprising the districts of le Houme, les Marches, and a part of
le Perche. The towns of Séez, Alençon, Argentan, Falaise, Hiesmes, Mortagne, and Bellême, together
with several smaller towns, and five hundred villages, were also included in its limits; as
were five archdeaconries, six rural deaneries, and many abbeys and other religious houses.
The episcopal revenue was estimated at only ten thousand livres. The late concordat, by reducing
the number of the Norman dioceses, has of course added to the extent of those that remained.

Seven of the early bishops of Séez are inscribed among the saints of the Roman calendar: in
later times, no names appear of greater eminence than those of Frogerius and John de Bertaut.
The first of these prelates was much in the confidence of Henry II. to whom he rendered acceptable
service in his unfortunate disputes with Thomas-à-Becket. He was not only one of the very few
bishops who then preserved their fidelity to their sovereign inviolate, but he undertook a
mission to the French king, for the purpose of remonstrating upon the favorable reception given
to the primate, on which occasion he received the following memorable answer:--"Tell your master,
that if he cannot submit to the abolition of the ordinances, which he designates as the customs
of his ancestors, because he thinks it would compromise the dignity of his crown, although,
as it is reported, they are but little conformable to the will of God, still less can I consent
to sacrifice a right that has always been enjoyed by the kings of France. I mean the right
of giving shelter to all persons in affliction, but principally to those who are exiled for
justice sake, and of affording them, during their persecution, all manner of protection and
assistance."--John de Bertaut lived in the beginning of the seventeenth century: he was principal
almoner to Mary de Medicis, and was afterwards in high favor with Henry IV. to whose conversion
he is said to have mainly contributed. He likewise distinguished himself as a poet.--A third
bishop of Séez, Serlo, already mentioned, was a man of such commanding eloquence, that, when
he had the honor of preaching before Henry I. and his court, at Carentan, in 1106, he declaimed
with so much effect against the effeminate custom of wearing long beards and long hair, that
the sovereign declared himself a convert, and the bishop, "extractis e manticâ forcipibus,
primo regem tum cæteros optimates attondit."[223]

The church of Séez may be compared in its architecture with those of Coutances and of Lisieux:
they are unlike, indeed, but by no means different. The points of resemblance exceed those
of a contrary description.

Severe simplicity characterizes Lisieux: Coutances is distinguished by elegance, abounding
in decoration: Séez, at the same time that it unites the excellencies of both, can rival neither
in those which are peculiarly its own. On the first view of the church, its mean and insignificant
western tower strikes the spectator with an unfavorable impression, which, on a nearer approach,
the mutilated and encumbered state of the western front is by no means calculated to remove.
And yet this western front, all degraded as it is, cannot fail to derive importance from the
great depth of the central door-way, which is no less than forty-seven feet,[224] a projection
exceeding that of the galilee of Peterborough cathedral. It is in the interior that the beauty
of the church of Séez is conspicuous. The noble lofty arches below; the moresque ornament,
like those at Bayeux and at Coutances, in the spandrils; the double lancet arches of the triforium
placed in triplets; and the larger pointed arches above, arranged two or three together, and
encircled with arches of the Norman form, though not of the Norman style;--all these beauties,
added to the enrichments of the sculptured walls and windows of the aisles, render the cathedral,
if not the first of Norman religious buildings, at least in the number of those of the first class,

    "Extremi primorum, extremis usque priores."

NOTES:

[220] Origines de Caen, p. 5.

[222] Etat Géographique de Normandie, p. 304.

[223] Gallia Christiana, XI. p. 684.

[224] The following are the dimensions of the other parts of the building.

                                                        FEET.
  Length of nave (including a space of sixty-four feet
                  under the towers)                       218
  Ditto of choir                                           57
  Ditto of aisle behind the choir                          14
  Ditto of Lady-Chapel                                     25
  Ditto of each transept                                   39
  Width of nave and choir, including aisles                72
  Ditto of Lady-Chapel                                     20
  Ditto of transepts                                       30
  Height of nave and choir                                 80
  Ditto of north-west spire                               232
  Ditto of south-west ditto                               210

THE END.

LEICESTER:

PRINTED BY THOMAS COMBE, JUNIOR.

INDEX OF PLATES.

                                                NO. OF PLATE.
  Andelys, Great House                                   15
  Anisy, Church                                          67
  Arques, Castle                                          1
  Bieville, Church                                   58, 59
  Bocherville, St. Georges de, Church                  5-11
  Briquebec, Castle                                      70
  Caen, Abbey Church of the Holy Trinity              24-33
   ------ Abbey Church of St. Stephen                   21-23
   ------ Chapel in the Castle                             48
   ------ Church of St. Nicholas                       55, 56
   ------ Church of St. Michel de Vaucelles            18, 19
   ------ House in the Rue St. Jean                        65
  Cerisy, Abbey Church                                   97
  Château Gaillard                                   80, 81
  Cheux, Church                                          57
  Colomby, Church                                        47
  Coutances, Cathedral                                92-94
  Creully, Church                                        91
  Dieppe, Castle                                         34
   -------- Church of St. Jacques                      35, 36
  Eu, Screen in the Church of St. Lawrence               72
  Falaise, Castle                                    89, 90
  Fécamp, Church of St. Stephen                          71
  Fontaine-le-Henri, Château                         62, 63
   ------------------- Church                          60, 61
  Foullebec, Western door-way of Church                  84
  Gournay, Church of St. Hildebert                    38-41
  Grâville, Church                                       12
  Haute Allemagne, Tower of Church                       37
  Jumieges, Abbey Church                                2-4
  Léry, Church                                        44-46
  Lillebonne, Castle                                     69
  Lisieux, Church of St. Peter                        73-75
  Louviers, South porch of Church                        79
  Matilda, Queen, Tombstone of                           33*
  Montivilliers, Abbey Church                            82
  Mount St. Michael                                  95, 96
  Oyestraham, Church                                     98
  Perriers, Church                                       68
  Rouen, Cathedral                                    49-52
   ------- Chapel in the Hospital of St. Julien        42, 43
   ------- Church of St. Ouen                              76
   ------- Church of St. Paul                              54
   ------- Crypt in the Church of St. Gervais              53
   ------- Fountain of the Stone Cross                     77
   ------- House in the Place de la Pucelle                64
   ------- Palace of Justice                               78
  St. Lo, Church of the Holy Cross                   87, 88
  St. Sanson sur Rille, Ruins of the Church              83
  St. Sauveur le Vicomte, Abbey Church                   14
   ------------------------ Castle                         13
  Séez, Cathedral                                   99, 100
  Tamerville, Church                                     17
  Tancarville, Castle                                85, 86
  Than, Church                                           16
  Tréport, Church                                        66
  William the Conqueror, Statue of                       20

Original spelling, even where inconsistent, and punctuation have been preserved. Minor typographical
errors have been corrected without note. In the list of SUBJECTS--CHRONOLOGICALLY ARRANGED,
a + has been used in place of the original obelisk. Typographical errors corrected in the text
(in brackets the original):

  17. Church of Tamerville [Tancarville]
  in the tenth [ninth] plate, and marked A and B
  daughters and nieces [neices] of the chief Norman barons
  marking the connection of the twenty-eighth [twentieth] plate
  rendered the necessity for such decisions [dicisions]