I nodded and he advanced upon me with the brush. He spoke of the retreat to Paris and the strategy
of JOFFRE which so nearly overthrew three Prussian armies. He brandished his razor and swept
the Boches back over the Marne, he swept them through Senlis, he swept them across the Aisne.
His intensity was inspiring. The smouldering fires of bygone battles leapt into his eyes. But
it was not the mesmeric shave of 1914. He apologised humbly and applied small pieces of plaster.

The next morning we fought a swaying battle in front of Rheims, and for some few following
mornings we skirmished about painlessly in the same vicinity. Then came a sanguinary excursion
to Flanders which nearly put me into blue overalls.

A few weeks of trench warfare gave me some respite and allowed my worst wounds to heal.

Then came the epic of Verdun. At least it was to have come, but at the last moment I lost my nerve.

To hear the story of that heroic defence from the lips of one who was concerned so intimately
with it is one of my greatest desires. But I am a coward. I cannot face the extravaganza that
Alphonse would improvise, neither dare I approach him for a mere haircut and so confess to
having deserted his other form of artistry.

Yesterday I purchased a safety-razor and a packet of new blades.

       *       *       *       *       *

       *       *       *       *       *

A LITTLE SUPPER WITH THE BORGIAS.

    "FRUIT SALAD.

    "Make some syrup by boiling three-quarters of a pint of water, 1/2
    lb. of castor sugar, and the juice from a tinned pineapple. Lay the
    pineapple in a glass bowl cut in small slices."--Weekly Paper.

       *       *       *       *       *

ART IN THE ARCTIC.

To know that you can't draw and to be told so by your friends are two very different things.
Honnell can't draw, but hates his inseparable Swan to tell him so. Honnell's sketches have
hitherto been criticised only by people who also wanted their drawing flattered. Swan learned
bluntness on the Yukon. So they are an odd pair to be chumming now in the Arctic circle. They
are so friendly that they will tramp together for half a day and exchange scarcely so much
as a grunt of conversation.

Swan, of course, feels quite at home in North Russia and smiles at the people who call it cold
and its distances big. Honnell has lived in Edinburgh, so doesn't notice the temperature, though
he misses the tramway system. Both can say about six words--the same--in Russian, and both
have bought a pair of moccasins--Swan because he likes them, and Honnell because he would like to.

Recently they set off together from Kola on the Murman Coast to try to find a village from
which jolly little Laplanders and Laplanderesses come sliding and skidding to market behind
their stout-hearted reindeer. They left all their picturesque Arctic gear behind them except
their moccasins, Swan being one of those trying people who don't care how they look, if only
they "mush" along fast enough. Their provisions consisted of a tin of bully and four edible
tiles or army biscuits, with some margarine in a Y.M.C.A. envelope.

The story they told on their return--for they did return and in good time for dinner--was mostly
Honnell's, but I must admit that Swan could not be got to refute it. As they approached the
village--some huts on a white hillside above a frozen lake--a representative of the dog-colony
came to meet them, waving his tail with an anti-clockwise circular motion impossible to the
dog of temperate zones. Having inspected them he escorted them on their way in a perfectly
civilised and even courteous manner.

So far from being resisted, their entry was ignored save by the little fur-capped boys, who
collected at their heels as if they had formed the vanguard of a circus, and the little brightly-kerchiefed
girls, who bolted for cover. All the adult male inhabitants, fiercely-bearded little men like
trolls done up in reindeer-skin from top to toe, appeared to be engrossed in the manufacture
of sleighs, although the village was already littered and cluttered up with them; and all the
ladies were indoors sewing reindeer-skin into trousers or making tea.

Having exchanged a noise like "Sdrastetye" (which in these parts seems to mean "Bon jour")
with everybody they saw, our two friends sat on a log, and rested, while Honnell set about
sketching, as he calls it, the primitive wooden church. The little boys, of course, formed
a sort of pyramid on his shoulders to watch. Whether because his fingers were cold and so not
completely under his control, or because the vibrations of the human pyramid communicated to
his pencil some lucky jerks, the marks Honnell committed to (or on) his note-book were such
as supplied the simple children of the snow with a clue as to his intentions, and he was intensely
gratified to hear one say to another, "Tzerhof!"--knowing that noise to signify "church" in
the local tongue.

Swan, perceiving the moral damage likely to be done to his friend by this flattering incident,
sought to puncture Honnell's unhealthy pride by saying, "Plaho?" (or "bad") as a suggestion
to the critics; but this only caused them to say repeatedly and with emphasis, "Dobra!"--which
was one of Honnell's six words and means "good."

Thus the mischief was done. Honnell returned to his billet a man changed and as it were possessed.
To hear him talk now one would suppose culture had fled from the Temperate to the Arctic zone.
Of the Lapps' habits and their houses he knows nothing, cares nothing; all his enthusiasm is
reserved for the honesty and the innate artistic perception of their children. So seriously
has he been affected by this unaided and impartial recognition of the subject of his drawing
that some of us wonder if he will not settle down amongst those who alone understand and appreciate
him. Returning home what can he hope to be? At best a hero of the Relief Force. But in his
Lapp village he could imagine himself an Artist.

       *       *       *       *       *

    "Canon Cooper O'Filley, known as the 'Walking Parson,' has decided
    to celebrate his seventieth birthday by walking from Yorkshire to
    Madrid."--Sunday Paper.

An even better-known "Walking Parson," Mr. COOPER, of Filey, will have to look to his laurels
now that this Irish pedestrian has entered the lists.

       *       *       *       *       *

    "Mr. J.B. Fagan has decided to revive 'Twelfth Night' with the
    original cast at the Court Theatre."--Daily Graphic.

We trust that when Mr. FAGAN revives the "original cast" he will not omit to provide also against
the inevitable call of "Author!" and settle the BACON-SHAKSPEARE controversy once for all.

       *       *       *       *       *

THE VEGES ON STRIKE.

(A Dream.)

  A noise arose of earnest men
    Refusing imitation duck;
  It was a dreadful moment when
    The Beetroot-eaters struck,
  And all around untasted stood
  Rations of Mr. Kilo's favourite food.

  For some forsook the sacred rules
    And pulled, despite their master's word,
  Ham sandwiches from reticules;
    On every side one heard
  The sharp staccato lettuce-crunch
  Merged in the howls of carnivores at lunch.

  And one conspirator leaped up
    Amid the clash of tinkling spoons
  And poured into a protose cup
    His helping of stewed prunes;
  And, blood-red presager of doom,
  Half a tomato hissed across the room.

  And angry "Pshaws" and long "Tut-tuts"
    Proceeded from that concourse dense,
  And "Nuts," they wailed, "we want more nuts--
    More nuts at less expense!"
  Till Mr. Ambrose Kilo came
  And hushed the berserk banqueters to shame.

  "Heroes," he cried, with lifted hand,
    "And comrades of the meatless life,
  Shall the great cause for which we stand"
    (Here someone dropped a knife)
  "Fall into disrepute?" (Loud roars
  Of "No, not it," from contrite nucivores).

  "Bearing aloft a stainless shield
    That none may smirch without remorse,
  This management declines to yield
    To crude displays of force;
  Yet, since it seems the general wish,
  Mock-cutlets will be five-pence less per dish."

  He ceased, and trembling fingers cleared
    All vestiges of meat away;
  The smiling handmaids reappeared
    With mounds of buttered hay;
  Silence replaced the storm-tossed scenes;
  There was no sound save masticated beans.

  EVOE.

       *       *       *       *       *

From "Answers to Correspondents":

    "A bellion, according to the French and American method of
    numeration, is a thousand millions, or 1,000,000,000. According
    to the English method, it is a million millions, or
    1,000,000,000."--Irish Paper.

We should have liked to know the estimated value of a re-bellion, according to the Irish method,
but we understand that there is no accounting for that.

       *       *       *       *       *

       *       *       *       *       *

OUR BOOKING-OFFICE.

(By Mr. Punch's Staff of Learned Clerks.)

A book of little novels, or long-shorts, from the pen of Mr. ROBERT HICHENS, will be welcomed
with pleasure by a very large public. Snake-Bite (CASSELL) contains a half-dozen various tales,
all but one of which are eminently characteristic of their author. It sounds unkind to add
that this one is for artistry the best of the bunch; but I mean no more than that Mr. HICHENS
has here done very well a slight and delicate sketch of a style not generally associated with
his work. In the name-piece his admirers will find themselves on more familiar ground--none
other indeed than that well-known desert in which they have enjoyed such delicious thrills
in the same company already. When Mr. HICHENS' characters get the sand in their eyes almost
anything may be expected of them. Here he has given us a new version of the ancient scheme
of two men and a woman, complicated in this instance by a cobra; the problem being, whether
a doctor should cure his wife's lover of a snake-bite. More original is the longest story in
the collection, one called "The Lost Faith," an affair of mental healing and love and crime
too complex for compression. It is admirably told. It leads up to a situation as novel as it
is dramatic--the confession of a young fanatic, who believes in a lady-healer so implicitly
that he puts typhoid germs into the drink of a celebrated general in order to provide her with
an impressive subject. As a sensation this wants some beating; though it failed to shake my
own preference for the other story, which you will observe I have purposely left unnamed. You
will, I hope, enjoy finding it for yourself.

       *       *       *       *       *

