I spent weeks making enquiries on all sides. "Oh, yes, certainly there was a Girls' Yeomanry
Corps." "Where can I join it?" I would ask breathlessly. "Ah, that I can't say," would be the
invariable reply.

The more obstacles I met with only made me the more determined to persevere. I went out of
my way to ask all sorts of possible and impossible people on the off-chance that they might
know; but it was a long time before I could run it to earth. "Deeds not words" seemed to be
their motto.

One night at a small dance my partner told me he had just joined the Surrey Yeomanry; that
brought the subject up once more and I confided all my troubles to him. Joy of joys! He had
actually seen some of the Corps riding in Hounslow Barracks. It was plain sailing from that
moment, and I hastened to write to the Adjutant of the said Barracks to obtain full particulars.

Within a few days I received a reply and a week later met the C.O. of the F.A.N.Y.'s, for an
interview.

To my delight I heard the Corps was shortly going into camp, and I was invited to go down for
a week-end to see how I liked it before I officially became a member. When the day arrived
my excitement, as I stepped into the train at Waterloo, knew no bounds. Here I was at last
en route for the elusive Yeomanry Camp!

Arrived at Brookwood, I chartered an ancient fly and in about twenty minutes or so espied the
camp in a field some distance from the road along which we were driving. "'Ard up for a job
I should say!" said my cabby, nodding jocosely towards the khaki figures working busily in
the distance. I ignored this sally as I dismissed him and set off across the fields with my
suit case.

There was a large mess tent, a store tent, some half dozen or more bell tents, a smoky, but
serviceable-looking, field kitchen, and at the end of the field were tethered the horses! As
I drew nearer, I felt horribly shy and was glad I had selected my very plainest suit and hat,
as several pairs of eyes looked up from polishing bits and bridles to scan me from top to toe.

I was shown into the mess tent, where I was told to wait for the C.O., and in the meantime
made friends with "Castor," the Corps' bull-dog and mascot, who was lying in a clothes-basket
with a bandaged paw as the result of an argument with a regimental pal at Bisley.

A sudden diversion was caused by a severe thunderstorm which literally broke right over the
camp. I heard the order ring out "To the horse-lines!" and watched (through a convenient hole
in the canvas) several "troopers" flying helter-skelter down the field.

To everyone's disappointment, however, those old skins never turned a hair; there was not even
the suggestion of a stampede. I cautiously pushed my suit-case under the mess table in the
hope of keeping it dry, for the rain was coming down in torrents, and in places poured through
the canvas roof in small rivulets. (Even in peace-time comfort in the F.A.N.Y. Camp was at
a minimum!)

They all trooped in presently, very wet and jolly, and Lieutenant Ashley Smith (McDougal) introduced
me as a probable recruit. When the storm was over she kindly lent me an old uniform, and I
was made to feel quite at home by being handed about thirty knives and asked to rub them in
the earth to get them clean. The cooks loved new recruits!

Feeling just then was running very high over the Irish question. I learnt a contingent had
been offered and accepted, in case of hostilities, and that the C.O. had even been over to
Belfast to arrange about stables and housing!

One enthusiast asked me breathlessly (it was Cole-Hamilton) "Which side are you on?" I'm afraid
I knew nothing much about either and shamelessly countered it by asking, "Which are you?" "Ulster,
of course," she replied. "I'm with you," said I, "it's all the same to me so long as I'm there
for the show."

I thoroughly enjoyed that week-end and, of course, joined the Corps. In July of that year we
had great fun in the long summer camp at Pirbright.

Work was varied, sometimes we rode out with the regiments stationed at Bisley on their field
days and looked after any casualties. (We had a horse ambulance in those days which followed
on these occasions and was regarded as rather a dud job.) Other days some were detailed for
work at the camp hospital near by to help the R.A.M.C. men, others to exercise the horses,
clean the officers' boots and belts, etc., and, added to these duties, was all the everyday
work of the camp, the grooming and watering of the horses, etc. Each one groomed her own mount,
but in some cases one was shared between two girls. "Grooming time is the only time when I
appreciate having half a horse," one of these remarked cheerily to me. That hissing noise so
beloved of grooms is extraordinarily hard to acquire--personally, I needed all the breath I
had to cope at all!

The afternoons were spent doing stretcher drill: having lectures on First Aid and Nursing from
a R.A.M.C. Sergeant-Major, and, when it was very hot, enjoying a splash in the tarpaulin-lined
swimming bath the soldiers had kindly made for us. Rides usually took place in the evenings,
and when bedtime came the weary troopers were only too ready to turn in! Our beds were on the
floor and of the "biscuit" variety, being three square paillasse arrangements looking like
giant reproductions of the now too well known army "tooth breakers." We had brown army blankets,
and it was no uncommon thing to find black earth beetles and earwigs crawling among them! After
months of active service these details appear small, but in the summer of 1914 they were real
terrors. Before leaving the tents in the morning each "biscuit" had to be neatly piled on the
other and all the blankets folded, and then we had to sally forth to learn the orders of the
day, who was to be orderly to our two officers, who was to water the horses, etc., etc., and
by the time it was eight a.m. we had already done a hard day's work.

One particular day stands out in my memory as being a specially strenuous one. The morning's
work was over, and the afternoon was set aside for practising for the yearly sports. The rescue
race was by far the most thrilling, its object being to save anyone from the enemy who had
been left on the field without means of transport. There was a good deal of discussion as to
who were to be the rescued and who the rescuers. Sergeant Wicks explained to all and sundry
that her horse objected strongly to anyone sitting on its tail and that it always bucked on
these occasions. No one seemed particularly anxious to be saved on that steed, and my heart
sank as her eye alighted on me. Being a new member I felt it was probably a test, and when
the inevitable question was asked I murmured faintly I'd be delighted. I made my way to the
far end of the field with the others fervently hoping I shouldn't land on my head.

At a given command the rescuers galloped up, wheeled round, and, slipping the near foot from
the stirrup, left it for the rescued to jump up by. I was soon up and sitting directly behind
the saddle with one foot in the stirrup and a hand in Sergeant Wicks' belt. (Those of you who
know how slight she is can imagine my feeling of security!) Off we set with every hope of reaching
the post first, and I was just settling down to enjoy myself when going over a little dip in
the field two terrific bucks landed us high in the air! Luckily I fell "soft," but as I picked
myself up I couldn't help wondering whether in some cases falling into the enemy's hand might
not be the lesser evil! I spent the next ten minutes catching the "Bronco!" After that, we
retired to our mess for tea, on the old Union Jack, very ready for it after our efforts.

We had just turned in that night and drawn up the army blankets, excessively scratchy they
were too, when the bugle sounded for everyone to turn out. (This was rather a favourite stunt
of the C.O.'s.) Luckily it was a bright moonlight night, and we learnt we were to make for
a certain hill, beyond Bisley, carrying with us stretchers and a tent for an advanced dressing
station. Subdued groans greeted this piece of news, but we were soon lined up in groups of
four--two in front, two behind, and with two stretchers between the four. These were carried
on our shoulders for a certain distance, and at the command "Change stretchers!" they were
slipped down by our sides. This stunt had to be executed very neatly and with precision, and
woe betide anyone who bungled it. It was ten o'clock when we reached Bisley Camp, and I remember
to this day the surprised look on the sentry's face, in the moonlight, as we marched through.
It was always a continual source of wonderment to them that girls should do anything so much
like hard work for so-called amusement. That march seemed interminable--but singing and whistling
as we went along helped us tremendously. Little did we think how this training would stand
us in good stead during the long days on active service that followed. At last a halt was called,
and luckily at this point there was a nice dry ditch into which we quickly flopped with our
backs to the hedge and our feet on the road. It made an ideal armchair!

We resumed the march, and striking off the road came to a rough clearing where the tent was
already being erected by an advance party. We were lined up and divided into groups, some as
stretcher bearers, some as "wounded," some as nurses to help the "doctor," etc. The wounded
were given slips of paper, on which their particular "wound" was described, and told to go
off and make themselves scarce, till they were found and carried in (a coveted job). When they
had selected nice soft dry spots they lay down and had a quiet well-earned nap until the stretcher
bearers discovered them. Occasionally they were hard to find, and a panting bearer would call
out "I say, wounded, give a groan!" and they were located. First Aid bandages were applied
to the "wound" and, if necessary, impromptu splints made from the trees near by. The patient
was then placed on the stretcher and taken back to the "dressing station." "I'm slipping off
the stretcher at this angle," she would occasionally complain. "Shut up," the panting stretcher
bearers would reply, "you're unconscious!"

When all were brought in, places were changed, and the stretcher bearers became the wounded
and vice versa. We got rather tired of this pastime about 12.30 but there was still another
wounded to be brought in. She had chosen the bottom of a heathery slope and took some finding.
It was the C.O. She feigned delirium and threw her arms about in a wild manner. The poor bearers
were feeling too exhausted to appreciate this piece of acting, and heather is extremely slippery
stuff. When we had struggled back with her the soi-disant doctor asked for the diagnosis. "Drunk
and disorderly," replied one of them, stepping smartly forward and saluting! This somewhat
broke up the proceedings, and lèse majesté was excused on the grounds that it was too dark
to recognise it was the C.O. The tent pegs were pulled up and the tent pulled down and we all
thankfully tramped back to camp to sleep the sleep of the just till the reveille sounded to
herald another day.

CHAPTER II

FIRST IMPRESSIONS

The last Chapter was devoted to the F.A.N.Y.'s in camp before the War, but from now onwards
will be chronicled facts that befell them on active service.

