My lords, his late royal highness was well known to all your lordships. His royal highness
frequently took part in the discussion of those subjects which came under your lordships' consideration;
and although it was impossible for every person endowed with such acquirements, and possessed
of such an understanding, as belonged to his late royal highness, not to have felt strongly
on the various events and questions which from time to time were brought under the consideration
of this house, yet his late royal highness always treated those subjects, however exciting
they might have been, with much moderation, and with great forbearance towards others with
whom he might have a difference of opinion. I must do his late royal highness the justice to
say, that though I had the unhappiness to differ from him in opinion on several subjects which
came under discussion in this house, yet, notwithstanding that difference of opinion, his late
royal highness ever treated me with unvarying kindness, and with the utmost condescension.
My lords, his late royal highness having received the benefit of an excellent education, and
having in his youth passed a considerable portion of his time in foreign countries, was a most
accomplished man; and he continued his studies, in all branches of literature and science,
until almost the latest period of his existence. His late royal highness was, during his whole
life, the protector of literature, of the sciences, and of the arts, and of the professors
and representives of all branches of knowledge. For a number of years his late royal highness
was elected president of the Royal Society, and he received the learned members of that body
in his house with the greatest amenity and kindness. Having himself sedulously cultivated all
subjects of literature, science, and art, his late royal highness was, I may say, the patron,
protector, and friend, of all those who pursued such studies, on every occasion when that protection
was necessary. But other praise belongs to his late royal highness. His royal highness was
not backward--on the contrary, he was equally forward with all the princes of his family--as
a patron and upholder, as a supporter and protector, of the various charitable institutions
of this metropolis; and, my lords, up to the last moment of his life, he was the friend of
the indigent and the unfortunate wherever they might be found.

April 27, 1843.

       *       *       *       *       *

Reasons for the Dismissal of the Irish Magistrates.

These gentlemen having been some of the persons to instigate and encourage the assembly of
those large meetings in Ireland, on which the first law authority had pronounced in writing
the opinion that they had a "tendency to outrage;" that "they were not in the spirit of the
constitution, and may become dangerous to the State;" the lord-lieutenant of the government
could not put any confidence in the performance of their duties by these magistrates and deputy-lieutenants,
who had thus excited these meetings, or who presided at them. Your lordships are perfectly
aware that on one occasion it was proved that these meetings had a tendency to outrage--indeed,
outrage was actually committed. I told your lordships on a former occasion that there was a
great difference in Ireland on the subject of the repeal of the union. Now, suppose that two
assemblies representing such opinions assemble on the same occasion and in the same neighbourhood,
why it is obvious that outrage and bloodshed may occur, and it must be likewise obvious that
those magistrates and deputy-lieutenants are not officers on whom the Lord-lieutenant can rely
for carrying into execution measures for the repression and suppression of outrage which he
may think proper to take on such an occasion. My lords I have besides to observe to your lordships,
that for a very considerable period of time it has been a matter of notoriety in Ireland that
the members of her Majesty's council, her majesty's servants in this and the other house of
arliament, declared it to be the fixed and positive determination of the government to maintain
inviolate the legislative union between the two countries. Some of the most distinguished members
of both houses of parliament declared, in their places, that they had the same intention; and
this declaration of opinion has been communicated to the public more than once; and in no one
instance, as I believe, has there been an intention avowed to promote the object of this repeal
of the union. Well, then, what must be inferred from the notoriety of that fact? What but that
the repeal of the union, so far as a vote of parliament is concerned, is hopeless? It is to
be carried then by intimidation, by force, and violence; and, of course, as the government,
whose duty it is to resist and repress such acts of intimidation, force, and violence, whenever
they should be attempted, by all the means at their disposal, cannot use such instruments as
those who excite the people to appear at their head, the lord-lieutenant and lord chancellor
have taken measures to remove them from the commission of the peace, and deputy-lieutenancies
of their several counties. This is the principle, my lords, on which I conceive the government
has acted.

June 9, 1843.

       *       *       *       *       *

After what passed in both houses of parliament it became a matter of notoriety that the opinion
of parliament was, that the legislative union should not be repealed, and that every effort
on the part of the government should be made to resist the attempt to occasion that repeal.
Then, my lords, under these circumstances, the lord chancellor finds Lord French and other
magistrates calling meetings to repeal the union, assisting at the meetings, presiding at them,
and urging all the proceedings. At this time the opinion of parliament was notorious, yet meetings
consisting of 10,000, 20,000, 100,000, no matter as to the number of thousands, continued.
My lords, I wish to know with what object they were continued? Was it with a view to address
parliament to repeal the union? No, my lords, they were continued to obtain the desired repeal
of the union,--by terror, if possible,--if not, by force and violence. And the persons calling
these meetings, I beg your lordships to observe, were the magistrates, the very men who must
have been employed by government to take measures to resist this violence, to prevent breaches
of the peace, to arrest those who should be guilty of such breaches, and to bring them to justice;
and then the noble lord says, that the government ought not to have removed those magistrates
from their situations, and that they ought not to draw a distinction as to the time when it
became notorious to the whole world what were the views entertained by parliament and the government
on this important question. My lords, in this and the other house of parliament, no one would
have any idea of repealing the union except in regular course, like another act of parliament;
but with these meetings of 50,000 and 60,000 men, was there any question of discussion? No,
my lords, the question was terror, force, and violence. That was the ground on which the lord
chancellor told these magistrates after the views of the government had become notorious, you
must be dismissed if you attend, or excite others to attend, such meetings. I am as much concerned
that this state of affairs should exist as the noble lord can be; but of this I am quite certain,
that the way to be prepared is not to have in the service of the government--not to have government
dependant upon the exertions of--a number of magistrates who have excited and encouraged these
proceedings, assisting at and presiding over these very meetings. That could not have been
desirable, and I say that the lord chancellor and situation as that of governor-general of
India, an officer who was so for little more than two years--an officer who has given satisfaction
in so high a situation to those by whom he was intrusted and employed--whose acts have been
concurred in and sanctioned in every instance; to recall that officer suddenly, making no provision
for the performance of the great duties which are to be performed, and which must he performed
in that country--to recall an officer in whom the government fully confided, without the concurrence
of that government--is, my lords, an act, to say the least of it, that cannot be called a discreet
exercise of the power which is conferred on those who have so used it. My lords, I will say
nothing--- I will advert to nothing that is not notorious--that is not strictly in reference
to the act of parliament. I beg your lordships to observe, that the body which did this act--which
I must call an act of indiscretion, at least--that body, as a body, has no knowledge whatever
of the instructions sent out to the governor-general, and under which he acted. They stated
reasons for withdrawing the governor-general from India; but, as a body (except the secret
committee appointed under the act of parliament), they had no knowledge whatever of the instructions
under which the governor-general acted, or of the events which had taken place in that country,
except that which is within the general knowledge of this and the other house of parliament,
and the whole public of this country. And yet, my lords, they take this responsibility upon
themselves--having no knowledge of the instructions which it was deemed at Waterloo. Very possibly
not, my lords. Bear in mind what he said in respect to the augmentation of his numbers, and
the means of assembling those persons. He said on one occasion, that by the post of one night,
he could collect the whole of this force in different parts of the country; and it is perfectly
true,--I have not a doubt of the fact.

July 14, 1843.

       *       *       *       *       *

Remedial Measures of no avail whilst Agitation continues in Ireland.

My lords, I must say, that grieved as I am that there should be so much truth in the representations
made by the noble lord of the existing state of the country, and of its prospects, threatened
as they are by the continuance of agitation, I must say, that no measure that could be proposed,
no new measure which could be adopted, would have the smallest effect in removing any of these
evils or inconveniences. My lords, the only mode, the only course to be adopted on the part
of the government, is to oppose a strong resistance to everything like a breach of the peace
or public order, and to be prepared, as I hope they are prepared, to enforce measures for preserving
quiet, and protecting property, in Ireland. My lords, I know of no remedy but that for the
state of affairs which exists at present; particularly as it appears that whether the peace
of the country shall be disturbed or not, depends on the will of one man, and his influence
over the wills and actions of some thousands, who possess influence in various parishes of
the country.

July 14, 1843.

       *       *       *       *       *

Agitation no Relief for the Poverty of Ireland.

My lords, it certainly is true that there is in Ireland a vast number of poor. I have been
sorry to see that it is stated in some returns on the table, that there are as many as 2,000,000
of poor in Ireland. My lords, it happens unfortunately, that in all parts of the empire there
are poor; but I will beg to observe, that it is not in the power of this government, nor of
any government, nor of any parliament, in the course of a few weeks, or a few months, or, I
may say, a few years, to relieve the poverty of a great country like that, extending as it
does to such a portion of the population. But, my lords, I beg to know whether poverty can
be relieved by this description of agitation for the repeal of the union? Is poverty relieved
by marches of twenty-five and thirty Irish miles a-day, during the period of spring and summer,
to hear seditious speeches? Is poverty relieved by subscriptions of thousands of pounds to
the repeal rent, and the O'Connell rent, and other funds of that description? No, my lords,
that poverty must be relieved by a perseverance in industry and sobriety; not taken up by fits
and starts for the sake of a more orderly appearance at seditious meetings, where the people
are marshalled by bands of music and flying colours. The evils, whence that poverty proceeds,
are not to be cured in a day. The remedies must be some time in operation; and all I can say
is, that the government are sincerely desirous to avail themselves of every opportunity that
may tend to benefit the people of Ireland, and to relieve that poverty of which the noble lord
so eloquently complains.

July 14, 1843.

       *       *       *       *       *

Assistance of Foreigners to the Repeal Agitation.--Their Anti-English Motives.

My lords, I do not dispute the extent of the conspiracy--I do not dispute the dangers resulting
from organization in Ireland--I have stated it publicly on more than one occasion--I do not
deny it--it is notorious, it is avowed, it is published in every paper all over the world.
I do not deny the assistance received from foreigners, not from foreign governments,--I have
no right to say so,--but from foreigners of nearly all nations; for there are disturbed and
disturbing spirits everywhere, who are anxious to have an opportunity of injuring and deteriorating
the great prosperity of this country.

August 8, 1843.

       *       *       *       *       *

The Military in readiness to preserve the Peace in Ireland.

I, whose duty it is to superintend one of those offices on which the execution of the measures
of the government depends, feel confident that everything that can be done has been done, in
order to enable the government to preserve the peace of the country, and to meet all misfortunes
and consequences which may result from the violence of the passions of those men who unfortunately
guide the multitude in Ireland.

August 8, 1843.

       *       *       *       *       *

Mr. O'Connell's Proceedings.

To plunder the public in Ireland of money for the purpose of O'Connell rent, or repeal contribution,
or the lord lieutenant would not have done their duty if they had not removed those persons
from her majesty's service.

July 14, 1845.

       *       *       *       *       *

The "Monster" Meetings in Ireland.

The noble lord (the Marquis of Clanricarde) has stated that these meetings were not illegal.
I certainly do not consider myself competent to decide whether they were or were not illegal.
This I know, that they consist of very large numbers--whether of 10,000 or 100,000 I am sure
I cannot tell, and I do not believe any man can tell to a certainty. They are assembled in
very large numbers, regularly organised, marching under the lead of persons on horseback, with
bands and banners, in regular military array. After having attended these meetings, those present
are dispersed by word of command, without trouble, violence, or breach of the peace, and march
back, perhaps twenty or thirty miles. * * * My lords, I have had some experience, in the course
of a long life, which I have passed in the service of the sovereigns of this country, of revolutions.
A distinguished author has written of the French revolution. "On ne conspire pas sur la place."
There is no secret in these transactions, and the reason why there is no secret is this, that
the great means of operation are deception of their followers, and terror in respect of their
adversaries. Accordingly, we hear a learned gentleman exclaiming to his audience, "Napoleon
had not in Russia such an army as this is; the Duke of Wellington had not such a one repeal
of those laws upon which the reformation in this country has been founded. My lords, I have
already taken opportunities of warning your lordships against the assertion of such doctrines
in this house, and I must again express a hope that you will observe and beware how they are
introduced into it, because you may rely upon it, that there is not an individual in this country,
be his religious opinions what they may, be his position what it may, who is not interested
in the maintenance of the reformation. Not only our whole system of religion, but our whole
system of religious toleration, in which so many people in this country are interested, depends
upon the laws upon which the reformation was founded; and I therefore entreat your lordships
to give no encouragement to doctrines that might induce a belief that there exists in this
house any indifference upon the subject of those laws.

March 18, 1844.

       *       *       *       *       *

The Compact entered into for the Maintenance of the Protestant Church in Ireland should be
held sacred.

The Protestant church in Ireland has existed in that country for a period of nearly three hundred
years, and was maintained in that country during a century of contests, rebellions, and massacres;
and during a contest for the possession of the crown, the Protestants of that country encountered
that contest, and kept possession of their church; and during another century it was maintained
through much opposition, and under difficulties of all descriptions. At the period of the union,
the parliament--who had the power to consent to the union, or to refuse their consent--stipulated
that the Protestant church in Ireland should be maintained, and maintained on the same footing
as the Protestant church of England in this country. The parliament had, under the auspices
of the king of this country, the power of either making or not making that compact. Your lordships
entered into that compact with the parliament of Ireland, and I entreat you never to lose sight
of the fact. I entreat you not to suffer yourselves to be prevailed upon to make any alteration
in, or to depart in the slightest degree from, the terms of that compact, so long as you intend
to maintain the union between this country and Ireland. It is the foundation upon which the
union rests,--it is a compact which you have entered into with the parliament of Ireland, and
from which you cannot depart without being guilty of a breach of faith, worse than those which
have been referred to in other countries,--worse than those pecuniary breaches of faith which
have been alluded to in the course of the discussion which took place in your lordships' house
this evening upon another subject. I entreat you to listen to none of those petitions or speeches
which tend to the injury or the destruction of the church in Ireland. Do what may be necessary,--do
what it may be proper to do, in order to render that church more beneficial to the people of
that country; but I entreat you to adhere strictly, in spirit and according to the letter,
to the compact you have made, and not permit it to be supposed in any quarter whatever that
you entertain the most distant intention of departing, in the slightest degree, from that arrangement.

March 18, 1844.

       *       *       *       *       *

The recall of the Governor-General of India, by the Court of Directors, an act of gross indiscretion.

