In the earliest sculptural works of Greece, as Lange the Dane was the first to point out, we
find not a direct imitation of the facts of the visible world, but impressions taken from that
world, stored in the memory, and put together in accordance with subjective purpose rather
than objective law. It is indeed thus that clever children work, when in the picture-writing
of their sketch books they violate the laws of perspective by combining separate aspects and
memories of an object into an inconsistent whole. They will not omit any peculiarity of a person
which happens to have struck them, even when in the profile which they sketch it would be invisible.
They think of a face as turned towards them, of legs as walking past them. Every face must
have two eyes, every body two arms, whether they would be visible under the natural conditions
or not. In early Greek reliefs it is common to find the body down to the waist full-face, the
body below the waist in profile, with no transition between the two. The well-known metopes
from Selinus in Sicily are good examples. It is a kind of procedure common to the early art
of all peoples. But the Greeks differ from other nations in this; that when they improved away
these early crudities they retained the predominance of thought over things, of man over nature,
in a word of the ideal element in art. They regarded the body of man not, as the materialists
do, as man himself, but as a shell produced by the inner working of the spirit, to be seen
by the eyes of thought and imagination, as well as by the bodily eyes. Hence they were always
aspiring from that which exists in appearance to that which lies behind the mere phenomenon.
They realized that nature, when she produces an individual, never wholly succeeds, she falls
short of the idea. And the artist by a loving sympathy with the creative Spirit, may venture
to improve what she has made, to carry out her intentions more fully, to incorporate more completely
the idea. The Greek artist, appreciating and venerating the body, tries to raise it to a higher
and more perfect level. A simple kind of idealism may be found in athletic art. In their practice
of athletics the Greeks did not, like the moderns, think only of the number of feet an athlete
could leap, or the space of time he would take to run a distance. They thought also of his
form, of the rhythmic and harmonious character of his action. If an athlete showed ugly form,
they would hiss him, as they would an incompetent actor. Most of their exercises were done
to the accompaniment of the flute. In all the statues of athletes which have come down to us,
not one shows an inharmonious development, powerful chest and weak legs, or muscular legs and
poor arms. It is more than probable that as the features of Alexander the Great influenced
the portraits of his officers and followers, so the specially beautiful forms of some of the
athletes who were most admired, tended to create a type, something of which appears in all
the athlete figures of the time.

No doubt any one who is well acquainted with Greek types and with the forms of modern athletes
will observe that the Greek physical build is not identical with that of our days. The equable
climate and the unstrained life of the young men produced something more rounded and fleshy
than we see in the north. Our athletes are less harmoniously built, with more prominent sinews,
more harsh and wiry in type. An American trainer who is also a sculptor, Dr. Tait McKenzie,
working as some of the Greek sculptors worked, from the average measurements of a number of
young men, has produced types of strength and beauty, by no means exactly like the statues
of Greece, but in their way almost equally beautiful. I instance the beautiful fifth-century
figures of Greek boxers, softened by idealism, but admirable for strength and symmetry; and
the Apoxyomenos, a man scraping himself with a strigil, as was the custom in the baths (Fig.
12). This is a work of the third century, after the artists had imported their knowledge of
anatomy into their works, which had effects both good and bad. And beside the Apoxyomenos I
place an athlete by Tait McKenzie, produced from the careful comparison and measurements of
hundreds of young athletes of Harvard and Philadelphia (Fig. 13). This is a work of modern
idealism produced by similar processes to those to which we owe the excellence of Greek athletic
sculpture.

The types of female beauty come into Greek sculpture later than the types of male beauty. In
Ionian and early Attic sculpture women appear closely wrapped up in drapery. Pheidias and his
contemporaries did not venture to represent undraped women. They showed the beauties of the
female form not apart from, but by the help of, drapery. It was reserved for the age of Praxiteles
and Scopas to represent the Goddess of Love in the guise of a nude woman; and Praxiteles made
an apology for the innovation by introducing the motive of bathing as an explanation and a
palliation. And even the Aphrodite of Praxiteles is remarkably free from all attempt at sensuous
attraction, or self-consciousness. Solid, noble, and stately in form, she is a type or model
rather than an individual. Later sculptors, it is true, departed from this line of simple harmoniousness,
and tried to make the figure more attractive to the average man. But it does not become weak,
and it does not become vulgar. The noble Aphrodites of the fourth century have fixed the type
of female beauty in school after school of artists down to our own time.

This ideal is perhaps for us best incorporated in the Aphrodite of Melos in the Louvre, a work
of the Hellenistic age, combining with the great fourth-century tradition a perfection of detail
and an informing life which belong to a later time. But while most people of taste profess
a devotion to her, that devotion is usually untinged by knowledge or real appreciation; for
there could hardly be a greater contrast than that between the bodily forms of the Goddess
of Melos and those of the women who are most admired in our days. I was almost disposed to
figure side by side the Goddess and the bodily forms which figure in our fashion plates. The
fashion plates do not represent women as they are, but as they would like to be; they represent
not the actual, but the modern ideal. And what an ideal!

Some readers may smile at the notion of taking seriously these ephemeral productions. But no
one would take them lightly who was familiar with the facts of psychology. We well know that
when certain types of women are set constantly before the rising generation as beautiful and
to be imitated they will necessarily exercise a great influence on the future of the race.
Young men will look out for such types to admire and to court: young women will try to resemble
them. The hideous mistake in aesthetics will exercise a constant dragging power, pulling the
young away from the light and the air of heaven towards the caves of evil spirits.

Few more charming representations of young womanhood in Greece exist than the Artemis from
Gabii already cited (Fig. 5). One must confess that the divine element in it is but slight.
But what could be fresher, simpler, more exquisitely natural?

