Joint, Butt. A joint in belting or in wire in which the ends to be joined are cut off square
across, placed in contact and secured. It ensures even running when used in belting. Any irregularity
in thickness of a belt affects the speed of the driven pulley. As dynamos are generally driven
by belts, and it is important to drive them at an even speed to prevent variations in the electro-motive
force, butt joints should be used on belting for them, unless a very perfect lap joint is made,
which does not affect either the thickness or the stiffness of the belt.

When a butt joint is used in wire a sleeve may be used to receive the abutting ends, which
may be secured therein by soldering. This species of joint has been used on lightning rods
and may more properly be termed a sleeve joint.

Joint, Lap. (a) In belting a joint in which the ends are overlapped, and riveted or otherwise
secured in place. If made without reducing the thickness of the ends it is a bad joint for
electrical work, as it prevents even running of machinery to which it is applied. Hence dynamo
belts should be joined by butt joints, or if by lap joints the ends should be shaved off so
that when joined and riveted, there will be no variation in the thickness of the belt.

(b) In wire lap joints are made by overlapping the ends of the wire and soldering or otherwise
securing. The Britannia joint (see Joint, Britannia,) may be considered a lap-joint.

Joint, Marriage. A joint for stranded conductors used for Galende's cables. It is made somewhat
like a sailor's long splice. Each one of the strands is wound separately into the place whence
the opposite strand is unwound and the ends are cut off so as to abutt. In this way all are
smoothly laid in place and soldering is next applied.

Fig. 205. MARRIAGE JOINT.

311   STANDARD ELECTRICAL DICTIONARY.

Joint, Sleeve. A joint in electric conductors, in which the ends of the wires are inserted
into and secured in a metallic sleeve or tube, whose internal diameter is just sufficient to
admit them.

Joint, Splayed. The method of joining the ends of stranded conductors. The insulating covering
is removed, the wires are opened out, and the center wire, heart or core of the cable is cut
off short. The two ends are brought together, the opened out wires are interlaced or crotched
like the fingers of the two hands, and the ends are wound around the body of the cable in opposite
directions. The joint is trimmed and well soldered. Tinned wire with rosin flux for the soldering
is to be recommended. Insulating material is finally applied by hand, with heat if necessary.

Joints in Belts. Belt-joints for electric plants where the belts drive dynamos should be made
with special care. The least inequality affects the electro-motive force. Butt joints are,
generally speaking, the best, where the ends of the belt are placed in contact and laced. Lap-joints
are made by overlapping the belt, and unless the belt is carefully tapered so as to preserve
uniform strength, the speed of the dynamo will vary and also the electromotive force.

Joulad. A name proposed to be substituted for "joule," q. v. It has not been adopted.

Joule. This term has been applied to several units.

(a) The practical C. G. S. unit of electric energy and work--the volt-coulomb. It is equal
to 1E7 ergs--0.73734 foot pound.--.00134 horse power seconds. A volt-ampere represents one
joule per second.

(b) It has also been used as the name of the gram-degree C. thermal unit--the small calorie.

Synonym--Joulad.

Joule Effect. The heating effect of a current passing through a conductor. It varies with the
product of the resistance by the square of the current, or with (C^2)*R.

Joule's Equivalent. The mechanical equivalent of heat, which if stated in foot-pounds per pound-degree
F. units, is 772 (772.55). (See Equivalents.)

