This eminent sculptor and famous medalist was in high favor with Clement VII., who took him
into his service. During the time of the Spanish invasion, Cellini asked the Pope for absolution
for certain homicides which "he believed himself to have committed in the service of the church."
The Pope absolved him, and, to save time, he added an absolution in prospectu, "for all the
homicides thereafter which the said Benvenuto might commit in the same service." On another
occasion, Cellini got into a broil, and committed a homicide that was not in the service of
the church. The friends of the deceased insisted upon condign punishment, and presumed to make
some mention to the Pope about "the laws;" upon which the successor of St. Peter, knowing that
it was easier to hang than to replace such a man, assumed a high tone, and told the complainants
that "men who were masters of their art should not be subject to the laws."

FRACANZANI AND SALVATOR ROSA.

The first accents of the "thrilling melody of sweet renown" which ever vibrated to the heart
of Salvator Rosa, came to his ear from the kind-hearted Fracanzani, his sister's husband, and
a painter of merit. When Salvator returned home from his sketching tours among the mountains,
Fracanzani would examine his drawings, and when he saw anything good, he would smilingly pat
him on the head and exclaim, "Fruscia, fruscia, Salvatoriello--che va buono" (Go on, go on,
Salvator--this is good). These simple plaudits were recalled to his memory with pleasure, in
after years, when his fame rung among the polished circles at Rome and Florence.

POPE URBAN VIII. AND BERNINI.

When the Cardinal Barberini, who had been the warm friend, patron, and protector of Bernini,
was elevated to the pontificate, the latter went to offer his congratulations to his benefactor.
The Pope received him in the most gracious manner, uttering these memorable words, "E gran
fortuna la vostra, Bernini, di vedere Papa, il Card. Maffeo Barberini; ma assai maggiore è
la nostra, che il Cav. Bernini viva nel nostro pontificato;" (It is a great piece of fortune
for you, Bernini, to behold the Cardinal Maffeo Barberini Pope; but how much greater is ours,
that the Cav. Bernini lives in our pontificate;) and he immediately charged him with the execution
of those great works which have immortalized both their names. Among the great works which
he executed in this pontificate are the Baldachin, or great altar of St. Peter's, in bronze
and gilt, under the centre of the great dome; the four colossal statues which fill the niches
under the pedatives; the pulpit and canopy of St. Peter's; the Campanile; and the Barberini
palace. For these services, the Pope gave Bernini 10,000 crowns, besides his monthly salary
of 300, which he increased, and extended his favors to his brothers--"a grand piece of fortune,"
truly.

EMULATION AND RIVALRY IN THE FINE ARTS.

Emulation carries with it neither envy nor unfair rivalry, but inspires a man to surpass all
others by superiority alone. Such was the emulation and rivalry between Zeuxis and Parrhasius,
which contributed to the improvement of both; and similar thereto was that which inspired the
master-minds of Michael Angelo and Raffaelle; of Titian and Pordenone; of Albert Durer and
Lucas van Leyden; of Agostino and Annibale Caracci; and we may add, in our own country, of
Thomas Cole and Durand. The emulation between the Caracci, though it tended to the improvement
of both, was more unfortunate in its result, as it finally engendered such a bitter rivalry
as to drive Agostino from the field, and it is said by some that both the Caracci declined
when their competition ceased.

The confraternity of the Chartreuse at Bologna proposed to the artists of Italy to paint a
picture for them in competition, and to send designs for selection. The Caracci were among
the competitors, and the design of Agostino was preferred before all others; this, according
to several authors, first gave rise to the jealousy between the two brothers. The picture which
Agostino painted was his celebrated Communion of St. Jerome which Napoleon placed in the Louvre,
but is now in the gallery at Bologna. It is esteemed the masterpiece of the artist. It represents
the venerable saint, carried to the church of Bethlehem on his approaching dissolution, where
he receives the last sacrament of the Roman Church, the Viaticum, in the midst of his disciples,
while a monk writes down his pious exhortations. Soon after the completion of this sublime
picture, the two brothers commenced the celebrated Farnese Gallery in conjunction; but the
jealous feelings which existed between them caused continual dissentions, and the turbulent
disposition of Annibale compelled Agostino to abandon him and quit Rome. Agostino, who according
to all authorities was the best tempered of the two, from that time gave himself up almost
entirely to engraving. Annibale, though he has the honor of having executed the immortal works
in the Farnese Gallery, yet owed much there, as elsewhere, to the acquirements and poetical
genius of Agostino. In the composition of such mythological subjects the unlettered Annibale
was totally inadequate. See vol. i., page 71 of this work.

THE NOTTE OF CORREGGIO.

This wonderful picture is one of the most singular and beautiful works of that great master.
Adopting an idea till then unknown to painters, he has created a new principle of light and
shade; and in the limited space of nine feet by six, has expanded a breadth and depth of perspective
which defies description. The subject he has chosen, is the adoration of the shepherds, who,
after hearing the glad tidings of joy and salvation, proclaimed by the heavenly host, hasten
to hail the new-born King and Saviour. On so unpromising a subject as the birth of a child,
in so mean a place as a stable, the painter has, however, thrown the air of divinity itself.
The principal light emanates from the body of the infant, and illuminates the surrounding objects;
but a secondary light is borrowed from a group of angels above, which, while it aids the general
effect, is yet itself irradiated by the glory breaking from the child, and allegorizing the
expression of scripture, that Christ is the true light of the world. Nor is the art, with which
the figures are represented less admirable than the management of the light. The face of the
child is skillfully hidden, by its oblique position, from the conviction that the features
of a new-born infant are ill-adapted to please the eye; but that of the Virgin is warmly irradiated,
and yet so disposed, that in bending with maternal fondness over her offspring, it exhibits
exquisite beauty, without the harshness of deep shadows. The light strikes boldly on the lower
part of her face, and is lost in a fainter glow on the eyes, while the forehead is thrown into
shade. The figures of Joseph and the shepherds are traced with the same skillful pencil; and
the glow which illuminates the piece is heightened to the imagination, by the attitude of a
shepherdess, bringing an offering of doves, who shades her eyes with her hand, as if unable
to sustain the brightness of incarnate divinity. The glimmering of the rising dawn, which shews
the figures in the background, contributes to augment the splendor of the principal glory.
"The beauty, grace, and finish of the piece," says Mengs, "are admirable, and every part is
executed in a peculiar and appropriate style."

Opie, in his lectures, speaking of this work, justly observes, "In the Nótte, where the light
diffused over the piece emanates from the child, he has embodied a thought at once beautiful,
picturesque, and sublime; an idea which has been seized upon with such avidity, and produced
so many imitations that no one is accused of plagiarism. The real author is forgotten, and
the public accustomed to consider this incident as naturally a part of the subject, have long
ceased to inquire, when, or by whom, it was invented."

The history of this picture is curious, though involved in much obscurity. It is generally
stated that while Correggio was engaged upon the grand cupola at Parma, he generally passed
the colder season, when he could not work in fresco, in his native place. Passing through Reggio
in one of his journeys, he received a commission from Alberto Pratonero for an altar-piece
of the Nativity, which produced one of his finest pictures, now called La Nótte. The indefatigable
Tiraboschi discovered the original contract for the work, which is dated October 14th, 1522,
and fixes the price at two hundred and eight livre di moneta Vecchia, or forty-seven and a
half gold ducats (about $104). It was painted for the Pratoneri chapel in the church of S.
Prospero at Reggio, but it was not fixed in its destined place till 1530. It is said that it
was removed surreptitiously by order of Francesco I., the reigning Duke of Modena, who substituted
a copy. The same story, however, is related of Correggio's Ancona, painted for the church of
the Conventuals at Correggio. (See vol. ii., page 257, of this work.) At all events, the elector
of Saxony subsequently purchased this gem, with other valuable pictures, from the Ducal Gallery
at Mantua, and it now forms one of the principal ornaments of the Dresden Gallery.

THE DRESDEN GALLERY.

The Gallery of Dresden is well known to most amateurs from the engravings which have been made
of many of its most capital pictures. In the works of Correggio it stands preëminent above
all others; and although some of these have suffered by injudicious cleaning, still they are
by Correggio. In the works of Titian, Raffaelle, Lionardo da Vinci, Parmiggiano, Andrea del
Sarto, the Caracci, Guido, &c., it holds also a high place; while it is rich in the works of
the Flemish and Dutch masters. Of the works of Reubens there are, 30; of Vandyck, 18; of Rembrandt,
15; of Paul Potter, 3; of David Teniers, jun., 24; of Philip Wouvermans, 52; of Adrian Ostade,
6; of Gerard Douw, 16; of Francis Mieris, 14; of Gabriel Metzu, 6; of Berghem, 9; of Adrian
van de Velde, 5; of Ruysdael, 13; and others by the Dutch masters. Tho entire collection contains
1010 Flemish and Dutch pictures, and 350 pictures of the Italian schools, the principal part
of which, particularly the pictures of Correggio, etc., belonged formerly to the Mantua collection,
and were purchased by the Elector Augustus III., afterwards King of Poland.

PAINTING AMONG THE EGYPTIANS.

The antiquity of painting, as well as of sculpture, among the Egyptians, is sunk in fable.
Yet it is certain that they made little or no progress in either art. Plato, who flourished
about 400 B.C., says that the art of painting had been practiced by the Egyptians upwards of
ten thousand years, and that there were existing in that country paintings of that high antiquity,
which were neither inferior to, nor very different from, those executed by the Egyptian artists
in his own time.

Before the French expedition to Egypt, a great deal had been written on the subject of Egyptian
art, without eliciting anything satisfactory. Norden, Pococke, Bruce, and other modern travelers,
speak of extraordinary paintings found on the walls of the temples and in the tombs at Thebes,
Denderah, and other places in Upper Egypt; and Winckelmann justly regrets that those curious
remains had not been visited by artists or persons skilled in works of art, "by whose testimony
we might have been correctly informed of their character, style, and manoeuvre." The man at
last came, and Denon, in his Voyage dans le Basse et Haute Egypt, has set the matter at rest.
He has given a curious and interesting account of the paintings at Thebes, which he reports
to be as fresh in color as when they were first executed. The design is in general stiff and
incorrect; and whatever attitude is given to the figure, the head is always in profile. The
colors are entire, without blending or degradation, as in playing cards, and the whole exhibits
the art in a very rude state. They exhibit little or no knowledge of anatomy. The colors they
used were confined to four--blue, red, yellow, and green; and of these, the blue and red predominate.
The perfect preservation of the Egyptian paintings for so many ages is to be attributed to
the dryness of a climate where it never rains.

The Egyptian painters and sculptors designed their figures in a style peculiarly stiff and
formal, with the legs invariably closed, except in some instances in the tombs of the Kings
at Thebes, and their arms stuck to their sides, as if they had consulted no other models than
their bandaged mummies. The reasons why the Egyptians never made any progress in art till the
time of the Greco-Egyptian kings, were their manners and customs, which prohibited any innovations,
and compelled every one to follow the beaten track of his cast, without the least deviation
from established rules, thus chaining down genius, and the stimulus of emulation, honor, renown
and reward. When Egypt passed under the dominion of the Ptolemys, she made rapid progress in
art, and produced some excellent painters, sculptors, and architects, though doubtless they
were mostly of Greek origin. It is related of Ptolemy Philopator, that he sent a hundred architects
to rebuild Rhodes, when it was destroyed by an earthquake. See vol. iii., page 1, of this work.

PAINTING AMONG THE GREEKS.

The origin of Painting in Greece was unknown to Pliny, to whom we are chiefly indebted for
the few fragments of the biography of Greek artists; he could only obtain his information from
Greek writers, of whom he complains that they have not been very attentive to their accustomed
accuracy. It is certain, however, that the arts were practiced in Egypt and in the East, many
ages before they were known in Greece, and it is the common opinion that they were introduced
into that country from Egypt and Asia, through the channel of the Phoenecian traders. It has
been a matter of admiration that the Greeks, in the course of three or four centuries, should
have attained such perfection in every species of art that ennobles the human mind, as oratory,
poetry, music, painting, sculpture, and architecture. Two things explain the cause--freedom
of action, and certainty of reward. This is exemplified in the whole history of the arts and
sciences. The ancient eastern nations, among whom the freedom of thought and action was forbidden,
and every man obliged to follow the trade of his caste, never made any progress; nor will the
moderns progress in those countries till caste is done away, and every man allowed to follow
the inclinations of his genius.

The Greeks were favored with a climate the most congenial for the perfect development of the
mental and physical powers, and beauty of form. Every man was at liberty freely to follow his
favorite pursuits. They rewarded all who excelled in anything that was useful or beautiful,
and that with a lavish hand. The prices they paid their great artists were truly astonishing;
in comparison to which, the prices paid to the greatest artists of modern times are small.
Nor was this so great an incentive as the admiration and the caresses they received. The man
of genius was sure of immortality and wealth. Their academic groves and their games were the
admiration and resort of all the surrounding countries. They decreed statues to their great
men who deserved well of their country. To other powerful incentives, the Greek artists had
the advantage of the best models before them, in their gymnastic exercises and public games,
where the youth contended for the prize quite naked. The Greeks esteemed natural qualities
so highly that they decreed the first rewards to those who distinguished themselves in feats
of agility and strength. Statues were often raised to wrestlers. Not only the first youth of
Greece, but the sons of kings and princes sought renown in the public games and gymnastic exercises.
Chrysippus and Cleanthus distinguished themselves in these games before they were known as
philosophers. Plato appeared as a wrestler both at the Isthmian and Pythian games; and Pythagoras
carried off the prize at Elis. The passion which inspired them was glory--the ambition of having
statues erected to their memory, in the most sacred place in Greece, to be admired by the whole
people.

Although it is universally admitted that the Greeks carried sculpture and architecture to such
a state of perfection that they have never been equalled by the moderns, except in imitating
them, yet there is a great contrariety of opinion among the most eminent modern writers as
to their success in painting; some, full of admiration for the works of antiquity which have
descended to us, have not hesitated to declare that the Greeks must have been equally successful
in painting, while others, professing that we possess colors, vehicles, and science (as the
knowledge of foreshortening, perspective, and of the chiaro-scuro) unknown to them, have as
roundly asserted that they were far inferior to the moderns in this branch, and that their
pictures, could we now see them in all their beauty, would excite our contempt. Much of this
boasted modern knowledge is, however, entirely gratuitous; the Greeks certainly well understood
foreshortening and perspective, as we have abundance of evidence in their works, to say nothing
of these being expressly mentioned by Pliny, and that it is impossible to execute any work
of excellence without them. This erroneous opinion has sprung from the ignorance and imperfections
of the old fathers of Italian art in these particulars, and the discoveries and perfections
of those more modern. If the moderns possess any advantages over the ancients, it is that chemistry
has invented some beautiful colors unknown to them, the invention of oil painting, and that
illusion which results from a perfect acquaintance with the principles of the chiaro-scuro;
but even here the mineral colors--the most valuable and permanent--were well known to them;
and if they had not oil colors, they had a method of encaustic painting not positively known
to us, which might have answered as good a purpose--nor are we sure they did not practice the
chiaro-scuro. Besides, the most renowned modern masters were more celebrated in fresco than
in oil painting, and the ancients well understood painting in fresco.

In this, as in most other disputes, it may reasonably be presumed, that a just estimation of
both will be found between the extremes. In comparing the paintings of the moderns with those
of the ancients, it may be fairly inferred that the latter surpassed the former in expression,
in purity of design, in attitude of the figures, and in ideal beauty. The moderns have doubtless
surpassed the ancients in the arrangement of their groups, in perspective, foreshortening and
chiaro-scuro--and in coloring. For a further disquisition on this subject, see Vol. I. p. 22,
of this work, article Apelles.

NUMISMATICS.

Numismatics is the science which has for its object the study of coins and medals, especially
those struck by the ancient Greeks and Romans. The word is derived from the Greek [Greek: nomisma],
or the Latin numus, coin or medal. Numismatics is now regarded as indispensable to archæology,
and to a thorough acquaintance of the fine arts; it is also of great assistance in philology
and the explanation of the ancient classics; it appears to have been entirely unknown to the
ancients, but since the middle of the sixteenth century, it has occupied the attention of many
learned men.

The name of coins is given to pieces of metal, on which the public authority has impressed
different marks to indicate their weight and value, to make them a convenient medium of exchange.
By the word medals, when used in reference to modern times, is understood pieces of metal similar
to coins but not intended as a medium of exchange, but struck and distributed to commemorate
some important event, or in memory of some distinguished personage. The name of medals, however,
is also given to all pieces of money which have remained from ancient times. The term medallion
is given to medals of a very large size, many of them being several inches in diameter. The
parts of a coin or medal are the two sides; first, the obverse side, face or head, which contains
the portrait of the person at whose command or in whose honor it was struck, or other figures
relating to him: this portrait consists either of the head alone, or the bust, half length,
or full figure; second, the reverse contains mythological, allegorical, or historical figures.
The words around the border form the legend, and those in the middle the inscription. The lower
part of the coin, which is separated by a line from the figures or the inscription, is the
basis or exergue, and contains subsidiary matter, as the date, the place where the piece was
struck, etc.

Numismatics has the same divisions as history.--Ancient Numismatics extends to the extinction
of the empire of the West; the Numismatics of the middle ages commences with Charlemagne; and
modern Numismatics with the revival of learning.

Medals indicate the names of provinces and cities, determine their position, and present pictures
of many celebrated places. They fix the period of events, frequently determine their character,
and enable us to trace the series of kings. They also enable us to learn the different metallurgical
processes, the different alloys, the modes of gilding and plating practiced by the ancients,
the metals which they used, their weight and measures, their different modes of reckoning,
the names and titles of the various kings and magistrates, and also their portraits, their
different divinities, with their attributes and titles, the utensils and ceremonies of their
worship, the costume of their priests--in fine, everything which relates to their usages, civil,
military, and religious. Medals also acquaint us with the history of art. They contain representations
of several celebrated works of antiquity which have been lost, the value of which may be estimated
from the ancient medals of those still existing, as the Farnese Hercules, Niobe and her Children,
the Venus of Gnidos, etc. Like gems and statues, they enable us to trace the epochs of different
styles of art, to ascertain its progress among the most civilized nations, and its condition
among the rude.

The ancient medals were struck or cast; some were first cast and then struck. The first coins
of Rome and other cities of Italy must have been cast, as the hammer could not have produced
so bold a relief. The copper coins of Egypt were cast. The right of coining money has always
been one of the privileges which rulers have confined to themselves. The free cities have inscribed
only their names on their coins. The cities subject to kings sometimes obtained permission
to strike money in their own name, but were most frequently required to add the name or image
of the king to whom they were subject. The medals of the Parthians and the Phoenecians offer
many examples of this sort. Rome, under the republic, allowed no individual the right to coin
money; no magistrate could put his name thereon, though this honor was sometimes allowed, as
a special favor, by a decree of the Senate. We can count as numismatic countries only those
into which the Greeks and Romans carried the use of money; though some of the oriental nations
used gold and silver as a medium of exchange, before their time it was by weight. The people
in the northern part of Europe had no money.

The coins preserved from antiquity are estimated to be more numerous than those we possess
from the middle ages, in the proportion of a hundred to one! Millin thinks that the number
of extant ancient medals amounts to 70,000! What a fund of the most curious and authentic information
do they contain, and what a multitude of errors have been corrected by their means! There are
valuable cabinets of medals in all the principal cities of Europe; that of Paris is by far
the richest; Pillerin alone added to it 33,000 ancient coins and medals. The coins of the kings
of Macedon are the most ancient of any yet discovered having portraits; and Alexander I., who
commenced his reign about B.C. 500, is the earliest monarch whose medals have yet been found.
Then succeed the sovereigns who reigned in Sicily, Caria, Cyprus, Heraclea, and Pontus. Afterwards
comes the series of kings of Egypt, Syria, the Cimmerian Bosphorus, Thrace, Parthia, Armenia,
Damascus, Cappadocia, Paphlagonia, Pergamos, Galatia, Cilicia, Sparta Pæonia, Epirus, Illyricum,
Gaul, and the Alps. This series reaches from the time of Alexander the Great to the Christian
Era, comprising a period of about 330 years. A perfect and distinct series is formed by the
Roman emperors, from the time of Julius Cæsar to the destruction of the empire, and even still
later. The Grecian medals claim that place in a cabinet, from their antiquity, which their
workmanship might ensure them, independently of that advantageous consideration. It is observed
by Pinkerton, that an immense number of the medals of cities, which, from their character,
we might judge to be of the highest antiquity, have a surprising strength, beauty, and relief
in their impressions. About the time of Alexander the Great, this art appears to have attained
its highest perfection. The coins of Alexander and his father exceed in beauty all that were
ever executed, if we except those of Sicily, Magna Grecia, and the ancient ones of Asia Minor.
Sicilian medals are famous for workmanship, even from the time of Gelo. The coins of the Syrian
kings, successors to Alexander, almost equal his own in beauty; but adequate judges confine
their high praises of the Greek mint to those coins struck before the subjection of Greece
to the Roman empire. The Roman coins, considered as medals in a cabinet, may be divided into
two great classes--the consular and the imperial; both are numerous and valuable. In the cabinet
of the Grand Duke of Tuscany is a set of twelve medals of Antonius Pius, each with one of the
signs of the Zodiac on the reverse, and part of another set, eight in number with as many of
the labors of Hercules.

RESTORING ANCIENT EDIFICES.

As in comparative anatomy it is easy, from a single bone, to designate and describe the animal
to which it belonged, so in architecture it is easy to restore, by a few fragments, any ancient
building. In consequence of the known simplicity and regularity of most antique edifices, the
task of restoration, by means of drawings and models, is much less difficult than might be
supposed. The ground work, or some sufficient parts of it, commonly extant, shows the length
and breadth of the building, with the positions of the walls, doors and columns. A single column,
or part of a column, whether standing or fallen, with a fragment of the entablature, furnishes
data from which the remainder of the colonnade and the height of the edifice can be made out.
A single stone from the cornice of the pediment, is sufficient to give the angle of inclination,
and consequently the height of the roof. In this way the structure of many beautiful edifices
has been accurately determined, when in so ruinous a state as scarcely to have left one stone
upon another.

NAPOLEON'S LOVE OF ART.

Napoleon was not only a true lover of art, but an excellent connoisseur. He did more to elevate
the arts and sciences in France than all the monarchs together who had preceded him. It was
a part of his policy to honor and reward every man of genius, no matter what his origin, and
thus to develop the intellect of his country. He foresaw the advantage of making Paris the
great centre of art; therefore he did not hesitate to transport from the countries he conquered,
the most renowned and valuable works of ancient and modern times. "Paris is Rome; Paris is
now the great centre of art," said he to Canova in 1810, when that great sculptor visited Paris
at his command, and whom he endeavored to persuade to permanently remain in his service. West,
after his return to England from Paris, where he had had several interviews with Bonaparte,
expressed his admiration of the man in such warm terms as offended the officials of the government,
and caused such opposition, that he deemed it proper to resign the President's chair in the
Royal Academy. The truth is, it was not the conqueror, as the English pretended, but his exalted
ideas of the arts, and of their value to a country, which captivated West, whose peaceful tenets
led him to abhor war and devastation.

Napoleon's enlightened policy is also seen in those stupendous works published by the French
government, as the Description de l'Egypte, ou Recueil des Observationes et des Recherches
pendant l'Expedition de l'Armée Français, 25 vols. in elephant folio. This work corresponds
in grandeur of its proportions to the edifices and monuments which it describes. Everything
that zeal in the cause of science, combined with the most extensive knowledge, had been able
to collect in a land abounding in monuments of every kind, and in the rarest curiosities, is
described and illustrated in this work by a committee of savans appointed for the purpose.
It contains more than 900 engravings, and 3000 illustrative sketches. The Musée Français, and
the Musée Royal, containing 522 plates, after the gems of the world, are not less grand and
magnificent, and far more valuable contributions to art. These will be described in a subsequent
page. Such was Napoleon; deprive him of every other glory, his love of art, and what he did
for its promotion, and the adornment of his country, would immortalize his name.

Napoleon delighted to spend some of his leisure moments in contemplating the master pieces
of art which he had gathered in the Louvre, and that he might go there when he pleased, without
parade, he had a private gallery constructed leading to that edifice from the Tuilleries. (See
Spooner's Dictionary of Painters, Engravers, Sculptors, and Architects, articles West, David,
Denon, Canova, etc., and vol i., page 8, of this work.)

NAPOLEON'S WORKS AT PARIS.

"The emperor was, most indisputably, the monarch who contributed in the greatest degree to
the embellishment of Paris. How many establishments originated under his reign! nevertheless,
on beholding them, the observer has but a faint idea of all he achieved; since every principal
city of the empire witnessed alike the effects of his munificence and grandeur of mind; the
streets were widened, roads constructed and canals cut; even the smallest towns experienced
improvements, the result of that expanded genius which was daily manifested. I shall, therefore,
content myself by placing before the reader a mere sketch of the works achieved at Paris; for
were it requisite to give a catalogue of all the monuments erected during his reign, throughout
the French empire, a series of volumes would be required to commemorate those multifarious
labors."--Ireland.

Palaces.

The Louvre was completely restored, which a succession of French monarchs had not been able
to accomplish. The Palace of the Luxembourg equally embellished throughout, as well in the
interior as the exterior, and its gardens replanted. The Exchange founded. The Palace of the
University reconstructed, as well as the Gallery uniting the Palace of the Tuilleries to that
of the Louvre.

Fountains.

The situation of the Fountain of the Innocents changed, and the whole reërected; that of Saint
Sulpicius; of the Four Nations; of Desaix in the Place Dauphine; of Gros-Caillon; of the Quay
de L'Ecole; of the Bridge of Saint Eustatius; of the Rue Ceusder; of the Rue Popincourt; of
the Chateau D'Eau; of the Square of the Chatelet; of the Place Notre Dame; of the Temple; and
of the Elephant, in the Place of the Bastille.

Acqueducts.

The subterranean acqueducts were constructed, which convey the water of the Canal de L'Ourcq
throughout the different quarters of Paris, from whence a vast number of small fountains distribute
them in every direction, to refresh the streets during the summer season, and to cleanse them
in the winter; these same channels being also formed to receive the waters which flow from
the gutters in the streets.

Markets.

That of the Innocents, the largest in Paris; the Jacobins, where formerly stood the monastery
of that name, and during the heat of the revolution, the club so called; the Valley for the
sale of Poultry; the Market of Saint Joseph; the Halle for the sale of Wines; the Market of
Saint Martin; that of Saint Germain, and of Saint Jacques-la-Boucherie.

Slaughter Houses.

Those of the Deux Moulins; of the Invalids; of Popincourt; of Miromeuil, and of Les Martyrs.

As the killing of animals, for the consumption of Paris, within the confines of the city, was
deemed not only unwholesome, but very disgusting, these buildings were erected by order of
Napoleon, and have proved of the greatest utility. The edifices are very spacious, containing
all the requisites for the purpose intended, and being also placed in different directions
and without the barriers of the city, the eyes of the inhabitants are no longer disgusted by
beholding those torrents of blood which formerly inundated the streets, and which, in the summer
season, produced an effluvia not only disgusting to the smell, but highly detrimental to the
health of the population of the city.

Watering Places for Animals.

That of the School of Medicine, a superb marble structure, together with the Abreuvoir of the
Rue L'Egout, Saint Germain.

Public Granary, or Halle du Blé.

Necessity gave rise to the noble plan of this stupendous fabric, the idea of which was taken
from the people of antiquity.

Boulevard.

That called Bourdon was formed, occupying the environs of the spot where the Bastille stood.

Bridges.

Those of the Arts; of the City; of Austerlitz; and of Jena.

Triumphal Arches.

The Carousel; the Etoile; and the Arch of Louis XIV., restored.

Quays.

Those of Napoleon; of Flowers; of Morland; and of Caténat.

The Column of Austerlitz.

Situated in the centre of the Place Vendôme, formed of the brass produced from the cannon which
were taken from the Austrians during the memorable campaign of 1805.

Place de Victoires.

In the middle of this square was erected a colossal bronze statue of the gallant General Desaix,
who nobly fell at the battle of Marengo, when leading to the charge a body of cavalry, which
decided the fate of that desperate conflict; this tribute, however, to the memory of the brave,
was removed by order of the Bourbons, on their first restoration.

Squares.

In the middle of the Place Royale a fine basin has been constructed, from whence plays a magnificent
piece of water; the Squares of the Apport de Paris; of the Rotunda; and of Rivoli.

The Pantheon.

The pillars supporting the vast dome of this lofty pile, which had long threatened the overthrow
of the structure were replaced, and the tottering foundations rendered perfect and solid.

The Hotel Dieu.

The whole façade of this immense Hospital was reconstructed.

The Canal de L'Ourcq.

This grand undertaking was rendered navigable, and the basin, sluices, &c. completely finished.

THE NAPOLEON MEDALS.

Of the numerous means employed to commemorate the achievements of Napoleon, the public buildings
and monuments of France bear ample witness. Indeed, Bonaparte's name and fame are so engrafted
with the arts and literature of France, that it would be impossible for the government to erase
the estimation in which he is held by the French people.

A series of medals in bronze, nearly one hundred and thirty in number, struck at different
epochs of his career, exist, each in celebration of the prowess of the French army, or of some
great act of his government: a victory, a successful expedition, the conquest of a nation,
the establishment of a new state, the elevation of some of his family, or his own personal
aggrandizement.

The medal commemorative of the battle of Marengo bears, on one side, a large bunch of keys,
environed by two laurel branches; and, on the reverse, Bonaparte, as a winged genius, standing
on a dismounted cannon to which four horses are attached upon the summit of Mount St. Bernard,
urges their rapid speed, with a laurel branch in one hand, whilst he directs the reins with
the other.

That on the peace of Luneville is two inches and a quarter in diameter, with the head of the
first consul in uncommonly bold relief; the device, as mentioned in another place, is the sun
arising in splendor upon that part of the globe which represents France, and which is overshadowed
by laurels, whilst a cloud descends and obscures Great Britain.

The commencement of hostilities by England, after the peace of Amiens, is designated by the
English leopard tearing a scroll, with the inscription, Le Traité d'Amiens Rompu par l'Angleterre
en Mai de l'An 1803; on the reverse, a winged female figure in breathless haste forcing on
a horse at full speed, and holding a laurel crown, inscribed, L'Hanovre occupé var l'Armée
Francaise en Juin de l'An 1803; and beneath, Frappée avec l'Argent des Mines d'Hanovre, l'An
4 de Bonaparte.

His medal, on assuming the purple, has his portrait, Napoleon Empereur, by Andrieu, who executed
nearly all the portraits on his medals; on the reverse, he is in his imperial robes, elevated
by two figures, one armed, inscribed, Le Senat et le Peuple.

The battle of Austerlitz has, on the reverse, simply a thunderbolt, with a small figure of
Napoleon, enrobed and enthroned on the upper end of the shaft of the thunder.

In 1804, he struck a medal with a Herculean figure on the reverse, confining the head of the
English leopard between his knees, whilst preparing a cord to strangle him, inscribed En l'An
XII. 2000 barques sont construites;--this was in condemnation of the invasion and conquest
of England.

The reverse of the medal on the battle of Jena represents Napoleon on an eagle in the clouds,
as warring with giants on the earth, whom he blasts with thunderbolts.

The medal on the Confederation of the Rhine has, for its reverse, numerous warriors in ancient
armor, swearing with their right hands on an altar, formed of an immense fasces, with the imperial
eagle projecting from it.

Not the least characteristic of the series is a medal, with the usual head Napoleon Emp. et
Roi, on the exergue, with this remarkable reverse, a throne, with the imperial robes over the
back and across the sceptre, which is in the chair; before the throne is a table, with several
crowns, differing in shape and dignity, and some sceptres with them lying upon it; three crowns
are on the ground, one broken and two upside down; an eagle with a fasces hovers in the air;
the inscription is, Souverainetés donnés M.DCCCVI.

The reverses of the last four in succession, struck during the reign of Napoleon, are, 1. The
Wolga, rising with astonishment from his bed at the sight of the French eagle; 2. A representation
of la Bataille de la Moskowa, 7 Septembre, 1812; 3. A view of Moscow, with the French flag
flying on the Kremlin, and an ensign of the French eagle, bearing the letter N. loftily elevated
above its towers and minarets, dated 14th September, 1812; 4. A figure in the air, directing
a furious storm against an armed warrior resembling Napoleon, who, unable to resist the attack,
is sternly looking back, whilst compelled to fly before it--a dead horse, cannon dismounted,
and a wagon full of troops standing still, perishing in fields of snow; the inscription is,
Retraite de l'Armée, Novembre, 1812.

The workmanship of the preceding medals are admirable, but most of them are surpassed in that
respect by some to which we can do little more than allude.

A finely executed medal, two inches and five-eights in diameter, represents Napoleon enthroned
in his full imperial costume, holding a laurel wreath; on the reverse is a head of Minerva,
surrounded by laurel and various trophies of the fine arts, with this inscription--Ecole Francaise
des Beaux Arts à Rome, rétablie et augmentée par Napoleon en 1803. The reverses--of the Cathedral
at Paris--a warrior sheathing his sword (on the battle of Jena)--and Bonaparte holding up the
King of Rome, and presenting him to the people--are amongst the most highly finished and most
inestimable specimens of art.

Unquestionably the worst in the collection is the consular medal, which, on that account, deserves
description; it is, in size, about a half crown piece, on the exergue, over a small head of
Bonaparte, is inscribed Bonaparte premier consul; beneath it, Cambacères second consul, le
Brun troisième consul de la république Francaise; on the reverse, Le peuple Francais à défenseurs,
cette première pierre de la colonne nationale, posée par Lucien Bonaparte, ministre de l'interieur,
25 Messidore, An 8, 14 Juillet, 1800.--One other medal only appears with the name of Lucien
Bonaparte; it is that struck in honor of Marshal Turenne, upon the Translation du corps de
Turenne au Temple de Mars par les ordres du premier Consul Bonaparte; and is of a large size,
bearing the head of Turenne, with, beneath it, Sa gloire appartient au peuple Francais. Several
are in honor of General Desaix, whose memory Napoleon held in great esteem. Those on his marriage
with Marie Louise bear her head beside his own; and a small one on that occasion has for its
reverse, a Cupid carrying with difficulty a thunderbolt. Those on the birth of their child
bear the same heads on the exergue, with the head of an infant, on the reverse, inscribed,
Napoleon François Joseph Charles, Rio de Rome, XX. Mars M.DCCCXI.--Ireland.

THE ELEPHANT FOUNTAIN.

When Napoleon had decided that a stupendous fountain should occupy the centre of the area where
the celebrated state prison of the Bastille stood, the several artists, employed by the government,
were ordered to prepare designs for the undertaking, and numerous drawings were in consequence
sent in for the emperor's inspection. On the day appointed, he proceeded to examine these specimens,
not one of which, however, proved at all commensurate with the vast idea he had in contemplation;
wherefore, after pacing the chamber a few minutes, Napoleon suddenly halted, exclaiming: "Plant
me a colossal elephant there, and let the water spout from his extended trunk!" All the artists
stood astonished at this bold idea, the propriety and grandeur of which immediately flashed
conviction upon their minds, and the only wonder of each was, that no such thought should have
presented itself to his own imagination: the simple fact is, there was but one Napoleon present!--Communicated
to Ireland by David.

This fountain was modeled in Plaster of Paris on the spot. It is seventy-two feet in height;
the jet d'eau is through the nostrils of his trunk; the reservoir in the tower on his back;
and one of his legs contains the staircase for ascending to the large room in the inside of
his belly. The elephant was to have been executed in bronze, with tusks of silver, surrounded
by lions of bronze, which were to spout water from one cistern to another.

INTERESTING DRAWINGS.

On the sailing of the French expedition for Egypt, from Malta, under the orders of Bonaparte,
the fleet was intentionally dispersed in order to arrive without being noticed; they had no
sooner, however, left Malta, than they learned that Nelson had penetrated their design, and
was in pursuit of them. Expecting every hour to be come up with, and being too weak to risk
a combat, it was the resolution of Bonaparte and the rest of the illustrious persons on board
the Orient to blow her up, rather than be taken prisoners; but, that the memory of those who
perished might be preserved, and their features known by posterity, Bonaparte caused the portraits
of eighteen to be taken on two sheets of paper, which were to be rolled up, put in bottles,
and committed to the waves: the names of the persons are,--

First Drawing.

  Desaix,
  Berthier,
  Kleber,
  Dalomieu,
  Berthollet,
  Bonaparte,
  Caffarelli,
  Brueys,
  Monge.

Second Drawing.

  Rampon,
  Junot,
  Regnier,
  Desgenettes,
  Larrey,
  Murat,
  Lasnes,
  Belliard,
  Snulkanski.

The portraits were executed in medallions, with India ink; they were carefully preserved by
the famous surgeon, Baron Larrey; and they adorned his study at Paris till his death.

SEVRES CHINA.

On the river at Sévres, near Paris, a manufactory is carried on, which produces the beautiful
porcelain, commonly called Sévres, china. It is equal to all that has been said of it, and
after declining, as every other great national establishment did, during the revolution, flourished
greatly under the peculiar patronage of the emperor Napoleon. He made presents hence to those
sovereigns of Europe with whom he was in alliance. Napoleon had two vases made of this china,
which, even at this day, form the principal ornament of the gallery at St. Cloud. These were
made at Sévres, and are valued at 100,000 francs each. The clay made use of was brought at
a great expense from a distant part of France, and affords an instance of how much the value
of raw material may be increased by the ingenuity of a skillful artist.

DISMANTLING OF THE LOUVRE.

In Scott's Paris Revisited (A. D. 1815), we have the following interesting particulars of the
removal of the celebrated pictures and statues from this famous emporium of the fine arts.

"Every day new arrivals of strangers poured into Paris, all anxious to gain a view of the Louvre,
before its collection was broken up; it was the first point to which all the British directed
their steps every morning, in eager curiosity to know whether the business of removal had commenced.
The towns and principalities, that had been plundered, were making sedulous exertions to influence
the councils of the allies to determine on a general restoration; and several of the great
powers leaned decidedly towards such a decision.

"Before actual force was employed, representations were repeated to the French government,
but the ministers of the king of France would neither promise due satisfaction, nor uphold
a strenuous opposition. They showed a sulky disregard of every application. A deputation from
the Netherlands formally claimed the Dutch and Flemish pictures taken during the revolutionary
wars from those countries; and this demand was conveyed through the Duke of Wellington, as
commander-in-chief of the Dutch and Belgian armies. About the same time, also, Austria determined
that her Italian and German towns, which had been despoiled, should have their property replaced,
and Canova, the anxious representative of Rome, after many fruitless appeals to Talleyrand,
received assurances that he, too, should be furnished with an armed force sufficient to protect
him in taking back to that venerable city, what lost its highest value in its removal from thence.

"Contradicting reports continued to prevail among the crowds of strangers and natives as to
the intentions of the allies, but on Saturday, the 23d of September, all doubt was removed.
On going up to the door of the Louvre, I found a guard of one hundred and fifty British riflemen
drawn up outside. I asked one of the soldiers what they were there for? 'Why, they tell me,
sir, that they mean to take away the pictures,' was his reply. I walked in amongst the statues
below, and on going to the great staircase, I saw the English guard hastily trampling up its
magnificent ascent: a crowd of astonished French followed in the rear, and, from above, many
of the visitors in the gallery of pictures were attempting to force their way past the ascending
soldiers, catching an alarm from their sudden entrance. The alarm, however, was unfounded;
but the spectacle that presented itself was very impressive. A British officer dropped his
men in files along this magnificent gallery, until they extended, two and two, at small distances,
from its entrance to its extremity. All the spectators were breathless, in eagerness to know
what was to be done, but the soldiers stopped as machines, having no care beyond obedience
to their orders.

"The work of removal now commenced in good earnest: porters with barrows, and ladders, and
tackles of ropes made their appearance. The collection of the Louvre might from that moment
be considered as broken up for ever. The sublimity of its orderly aspect vanished: it took
now the melancholy, confused, desolate air of a large auction room, after a day's sale. Before
this, the visitors had walked down its profound length with a sense of respect on their minds,
influencing them to preserve silence and decorum, as they contemplated the majestic pictures;
but decency and quiet were dispelled when the signal was given for the breaking up of the establishment.
It seemed as if a nation had become ruined through improvidence, and was selling off.

"The guarding of the Louvre was committed by turns to the British and Austrians, while this
process lasted. The Prussians said that they had done their own business for themselves, and
would not now incur odium for others. The workmen being incommoded by the crowds that now rushed
to the Louvre, as the news spread of the destruction of its great collection, a military order
came that no visitors should be admitted without permission from the foreign commandant of
Paris. This direction was pretty much adhered to by the sentinels as far as the exclusion of
the French, but the words Je suis Anglais, were always sufficient to gain leave to pass from
the Austrians: our own countrymen were rather more strict, but, in general, foreigners could,
with but little difficulty, procure admission. The Parisians stood in crowds around the door,
looking wistfully within it, as it occasionally opened to admit Germans, English, Russians,
&c., into a palace of their capital from which they were excluded. I was frequently asked by
French gentlemen, standing with ladies on their arms, and kept back from the door by the guards,
to take them into their own Louvre, under my protection as an unknown foreigner! It was impossible
not to feel for them in these remarkable circumstances of mortification and humiliation; and
the agitation of the French public was now evidently excessive. Every Frenchman looked a walking
volcano, ready to spit forth fire. Groups of the common people collected in the space before
the Louvre, and a spokesman was generally seen, exercising the most violent gesticulations,
sufficiently indicative of rage, and listened to by the others, with lively signs of sympathy
with his passion. As the packages came out, they crowded round them, giving vent to torrents
of pestes, diables, sacres, and other worse interjections.

"Wherever an Englishman went, in Paris, at this time, whether into a shop or a company, he
was assailed with the exclamation, 'Ah! vos compatriotes!' and the ladies had always some wonderful
story to tell him, of an embarrassment or mortification that had happened to his duke; of the
evil designs of the Prince Regent, or the dreadful revenge that was preparing against the injuries
of France. The great gallery of the Louvre presented every fresh day a more and more forlorn
aspect; but to the reflecting mind, it combined a number of interesting points of view. The
gallery now seemed to be the abode of all the foreigners in the French capital:--we collected
there, as a matter of course, every morning--but it was easy to distinguish the last comers
from the rest. They entered the Louvre with steps of eager haste, and looks of anxious inquiry;
they seemed to have scarcely stopped by the way--and to have made directly for the pictures
on the instant of their reaching Paris. The first view of the stripped walls made their countenances
sink under the disappointment, as to the great object of their journey. Crowds collected round
the Transfiguration--that picture which, according to the French account, destiny had always
intended for the French nation: it was every one's wish to see it taken down, for the fame
which this great work of Raffaelle had acquired, and its notoriety in the general knowledge,
caused its departure to be regarded as the consummation of the destruction of the picture gallery
of the Louvre. It was taken away among the last.

"Students of all nations fixed themselves round the principal pictures, anxious to complete
their copies before the workmen came to remove the originals. Many young French girls were
seen among these, perched upon small scaffolds, and calmly pursuing their labors in the midst
of the throng and bustle. When the French gallery was thoroughly cleared of the property of
other nations, I reckoned the number of pictures which then remained to it, and found that
the total left to the French nation, of the fifteen hundred pictures which constituted their
magnificent collection, was two hundred and seventy-four! The Italian division comprehended
about eighty-five specimens; these were now dwindled to twelve: in this small number, however,
there are some very exquisite pictures by Raffaelle, and other great masters. Their Titians
are much reduced, but they keep the Entombment, as belonging to the King of France's old collection,
which is one of the finest by that artist. A melancholy air of utter ruin mantled over the
walls of this superb gallery: the floor was covered with empty frames: a Frenchman, in the
midst of his sorrow, had his joke, in saying, 'Well, we should not have left to them even these!'
In walking down this exhausted place, I observed a person, wearing the insignia of the legion
of honor, suddenly stop short, and heard him exclaim, 'Ah, my God--and the Paul Potter, too!'
This referred to the famous painting of a bull by that master, which is the largest of his
pictures, and is very highly valued. It belonged to the Netherlands, and has been returned
to them. It was said that the emperor Alexander offered fifteen thousand pounds for it.

"The removal of the statues was later in commencing, and took up more time; they were still
packing these up when I quitted Paris. I saw the Venus, the Apollo, and the Laocoön removed:
these may be deemed the presiding deities of the collection. The solemn antique look of these
halls fled forever, when the workmen came in with their straw and Plaster of Paris, to pack
up. The French could not, for some time, allow themselves to believe that their enemies would
dare to deprive them of these sacred works; it appeared to them impossible that they should
be separated from France--from la France--the country of the Louvre and the Institute; it seemed
a contingency beyond the limits of human reverses. But it happened, nevertheless: they were
all removed. One afternoon, before quitting the place, I accidentally stopped longer than usual,
to gaze on the Venus, and I never saw so clearly her superiority over the Apollo, the impositions
of whose style, even more than the great beauties with which they are mingled, have gained
for it an inordinate and indiscriminating admiration. On this day, very few, if any of the
statues had been taken away--and many said that France would retain them, although she was
losing the pictures. On the following morning I returned, and the pedestal on which the Venus
had stood for so many years, the pride of Paris, and the delight of every observer, was vacant!
It seemed as if a soul had taken its flight from a body."

REMOVAL OF THE VENETIAN HORSES FROM PARIS.

"The removal of the well known horses taken from the church of St. Mark in Venice, was a bitter
mortification to the people of Paris. These had been peculiarly the objects of popular pride
and admiration. Being exposed to the public view, in one of the most frequented situations
of Paris, this was esteemed the noblest trophy belonging to the capital; and there was not
a Parisian vender of a pail-full of water who did not look like a hero when the Venetian horses
were spoken of.

"'Have you heard what has been determined about the horses?' was every foreigner's question.
'Oh! they cannot mean to take the horses away,' was every Frenchman's answer. On the morning
of Thursday, the 26th of September, 1815, however it was whispered that they had been at work
all night in loosening them from their fastening. It was soon confirmed that this was true--and
the French then had nothing left for it, but to vow, that if the allies were to attempt to
touch them in the daylight, Paris would rise at once, exterminate its enemies, and rescue its
honor. On Friday morning I walked through the square; it was clear that some considerable change
had taken place; the forms of the horses appeared finer than I had ever before witnessed. When
looking to discover what had been done, a private of the British staff corps came up, 'You
see, sir, we took away the harness last night,' said he. 'You have made a great improvement
by so doing,' I replied; 'but are the British employed on this work?' The man said that the
Austrians had requested the assistance of our staff corps, for it included better workmen than
any they had in their service. I heard that an angry French mob had given some trouble to the
people employed on the Thursday night, but that a body of Parisian gendarmerie had dispersed
the assemblage. The Frenchmen continued their sneers against the allies for working in the
dark: fear and shame were the causes assigned. 'If you take them at all, why not take them
in the face of day? But you are too wise to drag upon yourselves the irresistible popular fury,
which such a sight would excite against you!'

"On the night of Friday, the order of proceeding was entirely changed. It had been found proper
to call out a strong guard of Austrians, horse and foot. The mob had been charged by the cavalry,
and it was said that several had their limbs broken. I expected to find the place on Saturday
morning quiet and open as usual; but when I reached its entrance, what an impressive scene
presented itself! The delicate plan--for such in truth it was--of working by night, was now
over. The Austrians had wished to spare the feelings of the king the pain of seeing his capital
dismantled before his palace windows, where he passed in his carriage when he went out for
his daily exercise. But the acute feelings of the people rendered severer measures necessary.
My companion and myself were stopped from entering the place by Austrian dragoons: a large
mob of Frenchmen were collected here, standing on tip-toe to catch the arch in the distance,
on the top of which the ominous sight of numbers of workmen, busy about the horses, was plainly
to be distinguished. We advanced again to the soldiers: some of the French, by whom we were
surrounded, said, 'Whoever you are, you will not be allowed to pass.' I confess I was for retiring--for
the whole assemblage, citizens and soldiers, seemed to wear an angry and alarming aspect. But
my companion was eager for admittance. He was put back again by an Austrian hussar:--'What,
not the English!' he exclaimed in his own language. The mob laughed loudly, when they heard
the foreign soldier so addressed; but the triumph was ours; way was instantly made for us--and
an officer on duty, close by, touched his helmet as we passed.

"The king and princes had left the Tuilleries, to be out of the view of so mortifying a business
The court of the palace, which used to be gay with young gardes du corps and equipages, was
now silent, deserted, and shut up. Not a soul moved in it. The top of the arch was filled with
people, and the horses, though as yet all there, might be seen to begin to move. The carriages
that were to take them away were in waiting below, and a tackle of ropes was already affixed
to one. The small door leading to the top was protected by a strong guard: every one was striving
to obtain permission to gratify his curiosity, by visiting the horses for the last time that
they could be visited in this situation. Permission, however, could necessarily be granted
but to few. I was of the fortunate number. In a minute I had climbed the narrow dark stair,
ascended a small ladder, and was out on the top, with the most picturesque view before me that
can be imagined. An English lady asked me to assist her into Napoleon's car of victory: his
own statue was to have been placed in it, when he came back a conqueror from his Russian expedition!
I followed the lady and her husband into the car, and we found a Prussian officer there before
us. He looked at us, and, with a good humored smile, said, 'The emperor kept the English out
of France, but the English have now got where he could not! 'Ah, pauvre, Napoleon!'

"The cry of the French now was, that it was abominable, execrable, to insult the king in his
palace--to insult him in the face of his own subjects by removing the horses in the face of
day! I adjourned with a friend to dine at a restaurateur's, near the garden of the Tuilleries,
after witnessing what I have described. Between seven and eight in the evening we heard the
rolling of wheels, the clatter of cavalry, and the tramp of infantry. A number of British were
in the room; they all rose and rushed to the door without hats, and carrying in their haste
their white table napkins in their hands. The horses were going past in military procession,
lying on their sides, in separate cars. First came cavalry, then infantry, then a car; then
more cavalry, more infantry, then another car; and so on till all four passed. The drums were
beating, and the standards went waving by. This was the only appearance of parade that attended
any of the removals. Three Frenchmen, seeing the group of English, came up to us, and began
a conversation. They appealed to us if this was not shameful. A gentleman observed, that the
horses were only going back to the place from whence the French had taken them: if there was
a right in power for France, there must also be one for other states but the better way to
consider these events was as terminating the times of robbery and discord. Two of them seemed
much inclined to come instantly round to our opinion: but one was much more consistent. He
appeared an officer, and was advanced beyond the middle age of life. He kept silence for a
moment; and then, with strong emphasis, said--'You have left me nothing for my children but
hatred against England; this shall be my legacy to them.'"--Scott.

REMOVAL OF THE STATUE OF NAPOLEON FROM THE PLACE VENDOME.

"What will posterity think of the madness of the French government and the exasperation of
public feeling in a nation like the French, so uniformly proud of military glory, when very
shortly after the first arrival of their new monarch, Louis XVIII., an order was issued for
leveling with the dust that proud monument of their victories, the famous column and statue
of Napoleon in the Place Vendôme cast from those cannon which their frequent victories over
the Austrians had placed at their disposal? The ropes attached to the neck of the colossal
brazen figure of the Emperor, wherewith the pillar was crowned, extended to the very iron gratings
of the Tuillerie gardens; thousands essayed to move it, but all attempts were vain--the statue
singly defied their malice; upon which a second expedient was resorted to, and the carriage
horses, etc., from the royal stables were impressed into this service, and affixed to the ropes,
thus uniting their powerful force to that of the bipeds: but even this proved abortive; the
statue and column braved the united shocks of man and beast, and both remained immoveable."
The statue was afterwards quietly dislodged from its station by the regular labors of the experienced
artisan. It was not replaced till after the Revolution in 1830.--Ireland.

THE MUSEE FRANCAIS AND THE MUSEE ROYAL.

When the Allies entered Paris in 1815, they found in the gallery of the Louvre about two thousand
works of art--the gems of the world in painting and antique sculpture--mostly the spoils of
war, deposited there by the Emperor Napoleon. The selection of these works was entrusted to
a commission, at the head of whom was the Baron Denon, who accompanied the Emperor in all his
expeditions for this purpose. The Louvre, at this time, was the acknowledged emporium of the
fine arts. The grand determination of Napoleon to place France highest in art among the nations,
did not rest here. The design of combining in one single series, five hundred and twenty-two
line engravings from the finest paintings and antique statues in the world, was a conception
worthy of his genius and foresight, and by its execution he conferred a lasting favor not only
on the artistic, but the civilized world, for the originals were subsequently restored by the
Allies to their rightful owners and only about three hundred and fifty pieces remained of that
splendid collection. "These works" (the Musée Français, and the Musée Royal), says a distinguished
connoisseur, "are unquestionably the greatest production of modern times. They exhibit a series
of exquisite engravings by the most distinguished artists, of such a magnificent collection
of painting and of sculpture as can never be again united." These works were intended as a
great treasury of art, from which not only artists, but the whole world might derive instruction
and profit. To secure the utmost perfection in every department, no expense was spared. The
drawings for the engravers to engrave from, were executed by the most distinguished artists,
in order to ensure that every peculiarity, perfection, and imperfection in the originals should
be exactly copied, and these are pointed out in the accompanying criticisms. These drawings
alone cost the French government 400,000 francs.

The engravings were executed by the most distinguished engravers of Europe, without regard
to country, among whom it is sufficient to mention Raffaelle Morghen, the Chevalier von Müller,
and his son C. F. von Müller, Bervic, Richomme, Rosaspina, Bartolozzi, Gandolfi, Schiavonetti,
the elder and younger Laurent, Massard, Girardet, Lignon, Chatillon, Audouin, Forster, Claessens,
etc. Stanley says that proof impressions of Bervic's masterpiece, the Laocoön, have been sold
in London for thirty guineas each. There are many prints in these works not less celebrated,
and which are regarded by connoisseurs as masterpieces of the art.

Nor was this all. Napoleon summoned Visconti, the famous antiquary, archæologist, and connoisseur,
from Rome to Paris, to assist in getting up the admirable descriptions and criticisms, particularly
of the ancient statues. This department was confided to Visconti, Guizot, Clarac, and the elder
Duchesne. The supervision of the engraving and publishing department was entrusted to the Messrs.
Robilliard, Peronville, and Laurent. These works were published in numbers of four plates,
atlas folio, at the price of 96 francs each for the proofs before the letter, and 48 francs
for the prints. The first number of the Musée Français was issued in 1803, and the last in
1811; but the Musée Royal, which was intended to supply the deficiencies of the Musée Français,
was not completed till 1819; nevertheless, it was Napoleon's work, though consummated in the
reign of Louis XVIII.

The Musée Français was originally published in five volumes, and contains, besides the descriptions
and criticisms on the plates, admirable essays--1st. on the History of Painting, from its origin
in ancient times down to the time of Cimabue; 2d. on the History of Painting in the German,
Dutch, Flemish, and French schools; 3d. on the History of Engraving; 4th. on the History of
Ancient Sculpture. The Musée Royal was published in two volumes. A second edition of the Musée
Français was published by the Messrs. Galignani, in four volumes, with an English and French
letter-press, but both greatly abridged. The letter-press of the Musée Royal has never been
rendered into English. The plates were sold by the French government in 1836, since which time
a small edition has been printed from both works.

BOYDELL'S SHAKSPEARE GALLERY.

About the year 1785, Alderman J. Boydell, of London, conceived the project of establishing
a 'Shakspeare Gallery,' upon a scale of grandeur and magnificence which should be in accordance
with the fame of the poet, and, at the same time, reflect honor upon the state of the arts
in Great Britain and throughout the world. Mr. Boydell was at this time a man of great wealth
and influence, and a patron of the fine arts, being an engraver himself, and having accumulated
his fortune mostly by dealings in works of that character.

He advertised for designs from artists throughout Great Britain, and paid a guinea for every
one submitted, whether accepted or not; and for every one accepted by the committee, a prize
of one hundred guineas. The committee for selecting these designs was composed of five eminent
artists, Boydell himself being the president. The first painters of the age were then employed
to paint these pictures, among whom were Sir Joshua Reynolds, Sir Benjamin West, Fusell, Romney,
Northcote, Smirke, Sir William Beechy, and Opie.

Allan Cunningham, in his 'Lives of Eminent British Artists,' mentions that Sir Joshua Reynolds
was at first opposed to Boydell's project, as impracticable on such an immense scale, and Boydell,
to gain his approbation and assistance, privately sent him a letter enclosing a £1000 Bank
of England note, and requesting him to paint two pictures at his own price. What sum was paid
by Boydell for these pictures was never known. A magnificent building was erected in Pall Mall
to exhibit this immense collection, called the Shakspeare Gallery, which was for a long time
the pride of London.

The first engravers of England were employed to transfer these gems to copper, and such artists
as Sharp, Bartolozzi, Earlom, Thew, Simon, Middiman, Watson, Fyttler, Wilson, and many others,
exerted their talents for years in this great work. In some instances, the labor of more than
five years was expended on a single plate, and proof impressions were taken for subscribers
at almost every stage of the work. At length in 1803, after nearly twenty years, the work was
completed. The price fixed (which was never reduced) was two guineas each for the first three
hundred impressions, and the subscription list was then filled up at one guinea each, or one
hundred guineas a set of one hundred plates.

Besides these subscriptions, large donations were made by many of the noblemen of England,
to encourage the undertaking, and to enable Boydell to meet his enormous outlay. The cost of
the whole work, from the commencement, is said to have been about one million pounds sterling;
and although the projector was a wealthy man when he commenced it, he died soon after its completion,
a bankrupt to the amount, it is said, of £250,000.

After these plates were issued, Boydell petitioned Parliament to allow him to dispose of his
gallery of paintings by a lottery. The petition was granted, and the whole collection was thus
disposed of. One of the finest of these pictures, King Lear, by Sir Benjamin West, is now in
the Boston Athenæum.

One fact in relation to these plates gives great value to them. "All the principal historical
characters are genuine portraits of the persons represented in the play; every picture gallery
and old castle in England was ransacked to furnish these portraits."

BRIEF SKETCH OF A PLAN FOR AN AMERICAN NATIONAL GALLERY OF ART.

Public Galleries of Art are now regarded by the most enlightened men, and the wisest legislators,
as of incalculable benefit to every civilized country. (See vol. i., page 6, of this work.)
They communicate to the mind, through the eye, "the accumulated wisdom of ages," relative to
every form of beauty, in the most rapid and captivating manner. If such institutions are important
in Europe, abounding in works of art, how much more so in our country, separated as it is by
the broad Atlantic from the artistic world, which few comparatively can ever visit: many of
our young artists, for the want of such an institution, are obliged to grope their way in the
dark, and to spend months and years to find out a few simple principles of art.

A distinguished professor, high in public estimation, has declared that the formation of such
an institution in this country, however important and desirable it may be, is almost hopeless.
He founds his opinion on the difficulty of obtaining the authenticated works of the great masters,
and the enormous prices they now command in Europe. The writer ventures to declare it as his
long cherished opinion that a United States National Gallery is entirely practicable, as far
as all useful purposes are concerned; and at a tithe of the cost of such institutions in Europe.
In the present state of the Fine Arts in our country, we should not attempt to emulate European
magnificence, but utility. The "course of empire is westward," and in the course of time, as
wealth and taste increases, sale will be sought here, as now in England, for many works of
the highest art. It is also to be hoped that some public benefactors will rise to our assistance.
After the foundation of the institution, it may be extended according to the taste and wants
of the country; professorships may be added, and the rarest works purchased. When the country
can and will afford it, no price should be regarded too great for a perfect masterpiece of
art, as a model in a national collection. To begin, the Gallery should contain,

1st. A complete library of all standard works on Art, historical and illustrative, in every
language.

2d. A collection of the masterpieces of engraving; these should be mounted on linen, numbered,
bound, described and criticised.

3d. A complete collection of casts of medals and antique gems, where the originals cannot be
obtained. There are about 70,000 antique medals of high importance to art. (See Numismatics,
vol. iii., p. 269, of this work.) These casts could easily be obtained through our diplomatic
agents; they should be taken in Plaster of Paris or Sulphur, double--i.e., the reverse and
obverse,--classified, catalogued, described, and arranged in cases covered with plate glass,
for their preservation.

4th. A collection of plaster casts of all the best works of sculpture, particularly of the
antique. Correct casts of the Elgin marbles are sold by the British Museum at a very reasonable
price, and in this case would doubtless be presented to the institution.

5th. A collection of Paintings. This is the most difficult part of the project, yet practicable.
Masterpieces of the art only should be admitted, but historical authenticity disregarded. The
works of the great masters have been so closely imitated, that there are no certain marks of
authenticity, where the history of the picture cannot be traced. (See Spooner's Dictionary
of Painters, etc., Introduction, and Table of Imitators.) Half the pictures in foreign collections
cannot be authenticated, and many of those which are, are not the best productions of the master,
nor worthy of the places they occupy. (See Mrs. Jameson's Hand-Book to the Public Galleries
in and near London; also the Catalogues of the various Public Galleries of Europe.) Therefore,
instead of paying 5,000 or 10,000 guineas for an authenticated piece by a certain master, as
is sometimes done in Europe, competent and true men should be appointed to select capital works,
executed in the style of the great masters. Many such can be had in this country as well as
in Europe, at moderate prices.

6th. The Institution should be located in New York, as the most convenient place, and as the
great centre of commerce, where artists could most readily dispose of their works. For this
favor, the city would doubtless donate the ground, and her citizens make liberal contributions.
The edifice should be built fire-proof, and three stories high--the upper with a skylight,
for the gallery of paintings. Such an institution need not be very expensive; yet it would
afford the elements for the instruction and accomplishment of the painter, the engraver, the
sculptor, the architect, the connoisseur, the archæologist, and the public at large; it would
be the means of awakening and developing the sleeping genius of many men, to the honor, glory,
and advantage of their country, which, without it, must sleep on forever. See vol. ii., pp.
149 and 155, and vol. iii., p. 265 of this work.

INDEX.

  Advantages of the Cultivation of the Fine Arts to a Country, i, 6;
    Sir M. A. Shoe's Opinion, i, 6;
    Sir George Beaumont's, i, 7;
    West's, i, 8;
    Taylor's, i, 9;
    see also, i, 69;
    Reynolds' Opinion, i, 204;
    Napoleon's, iii, 274.

  Ætion, his picture of the Nuptials of Alexander and Roxana, ii, 184.

  Agaptos, Porticos of, ii, 185.

  Ageladus, his works, ii, 185.

  Aldobrandini Wedding, Fresco of, ii, 55.

  Allston, Washington, i, 60;
    his Prayer answered, i, 61;
    his success in London, i, 62;
    his Death, i, 62;
    Vanderlyn's letter--his Reflections on his Death, i, 63.

  American Patronage at Home and Abroad, i, 66;
    Weir, Greenough, and Cooper's testimony, i, 67;
    Cooper's Letter, i, 68.

  Amiconi, Jacopo, iii, 249.

  Angelo, Michael, his Early Passion for Art, i, 47;
    his Mask of a Satyr, i, 48;
    his Sleeping Cupid, i, 48;
    Angela and Julius II, i, 50;
    St. Peter's Church, i, 50;
    Angelo and Lorenzo the Magnificent, i, 52;
    his Cartoon of Pisa, i, 53;
    his Last Judgment, i, 54;
    his Coloring, i, 56;
    his Grace, i, 57;
    his Oil Paintings, i, 58;
    his Prophets and Julius II, i, 58;
    his Bon-Mots, i, 59;
    Angelo and Raffaelle, i, 70-72.

  Anguisciola, Sofonisba, iii, 129;
    her Early Distinction, iii, 129;
    her Invitation to Spain iii, 130;
    her Marriages, iii, 131;
    her Residence at Genoa, her Honors, and her Intercourse with
    Vandyck, iii, 132.

  Antique Sculptures in Rome, ii, 159.

  Antiquities of Herculaneum and Pompeii, ii, 43.

  Antiquity of the Fine Arts, i, 12.

  Aparicio, Canova, and Thorwaldsen, i, 236.

  Apelles, i, 18;
    his Works, i, 18;
    his Industry, i, 19;
    his Portraits of Philip and Alexander, i, 19;
    his Venus Anadyomene, i, 20;

  Apelles and the Cobbler, i, 23;
    his Foaming Charger, i, 24;
    his Freedom with Alexander, i, 25;
    Apelles and Protogenes, i, 25;
    the celebrated Contest of Lines, i, 26;
    his Generosity to Protogenes, i, 28.

  Apelles of Ephesus, i, 93;
    his Treatment by Ptolomy Philopator, i, 94;
    his Revenge in his famous Picture of Calumny, i, 94;
    Lucian's description of it, i, 94;
    Raffaelle's Drawing of it, i, 95;
    Proof that there were two Painters named Apelles, i, 95.

  Apollo Belvidere--West's Criticism, i, 41.

  Apollo, Colossal Etruscan, i, 90.

  Apollo Sauroctonos, i, 155.

  Apollodorus the Painter, i, 162;
    his Works and Style, i, 163.

  Apollodorus the Architect, i, 163;
    his Worke, i, 164;
    Trajan's Column, i, 164;
    Apollodorus and Adrian, i, 165;
    his Wicked Death, i, 165.

  Aqueducts of Ancient Rome, ii 152.

  Arch, Origin and Antiquity of the, ii. 41.

  Arches, Triumphal, ii, 157.

  Archimedes, iii, 77;
    his Genius, Discoveries, and Inventions, iii, 77;
    his Wonderful Machines, iii, 78;
    his Death and Monument, iii, 79;
    Story of his Burning Glasses proved true, iii, 79.

  Ardemans and Bocanegra--a Trial of Skill, iii, 201.

  Art, Egyptian, iii, 1-42, and iii, 263.

  Art, Grecian, derived from the Egyptian--Champollion's Opinion, iii, 1;
    Origin of, iii, 265.

  Athenians, Ingratitude of, to Artists, i, 159.

  Backhuysen, Ludolph, Sketch of his Life and Works, iii, 235.

  Banks, Thomas--his Ambition, i, 2;
    his Character, i, 295;
    his Genius, i, 297;
    his Kindness to Young Sculptors, i, 298;
    his Personal Appearance and Habits, i, 299;
    Flaxman's Tribute, i, 300.

  Barry, James--his Enthusiasm, i, 2;
    his Poverty, Death, and Monument, i, 3;
    Johnson's Opinion of his Genius, i, 3.

  Bassano, Jacopo--singular instance of his Skill, ii, 139.

  Beaumont, Sir George--his Opinion of the Importance of the
   Fine Arts, i, 7;
   his Enthusiasm and munificent gift to the English National
   Gallery, i, 7.

  Beauty, Ideal, as Conceived and Practiced by the Greatest
    Masters, ii, 247.

  Belzoni--his Travels in Egypt, iii, 25.

  The Belzoni Sarcophagus, ii, 194.

  Bernazzano, the Zeuxis of Italy, ii, 140.

  Bernini, the Cav., i, 101;
    his Precocity, i, 101;
    his Bust of Charles I. and his Prediction, i, 101;

  Bernini and Louis XIV., i, 102;
    his Triumphal Visit to Paris, i, 102;
    the Medal struck in his Honor, i, 103;
    his Works, i, 103;
    his Restoration of the Verospi Hercules, i, 104;
    Lanzi's Critique, i, 103;
    his Love of Splendor and his Riches, i, 104;
    Bernini and Urban VIII., iii, 256.

  Blake, William--his Enthusiasm, Eccentricity, and Poverty, i, 3;
    his melancholy yet triumphant Death, 1, 4.

  Boydell's Shakespeare Gallery, iii, 305.

  Bridge, Trajan's, across the Danube, i, 164.

  Bridge, Mandrocles', across the Bosphorus, ii, 162.

  Bridge, the Britannia Railway Tubular, iii 46;
    the Tubes, iii, 47;
    the Piers, iii, 48;
    Construction of the Tubes, iii, 49;
    Floating the Tubes, iii, 50;
    Raising the Tubes, iii, 52;
    the prodigious Hydraulic Presses used, iii, 53;
    Bursting of one, iii, 55;
    Sir Francis Head's Description, iii, 56;
    Cost of the Structure, iii, 57.

  Brower, Adrian, iii, 182;
    his Escape from a Cruel Master, iii, 183;
    Brower, the Duke d'Aremberg, and Rubens, iii, 184;
    his Death, iii, 184;
    his Works, iii, 185.

  Brunelleschi, Filippo--remarkable instance of the Trials and Triumphs
    of Genius, iii, 80;
    his Inquiring Mind, Industry, and Discoveries, iii, 81;
    his Genius, iii, 82;
    his Ambition, iii, 83;
    his first Visit to Rome and Assiduity, iii, 84;
    Assembly of Architects to consult on the best means of raising the
    Cupola of the Cathedral of Florence, iii, 85;
    his Return to Rome, iii, 86;
    his Invitation back to Florence, iii, 87;
    his Discourse, iii, 87;
    his Return to Rome, iii, 89;
    grand Assemblage of Architects from all parts of Europe, iii, 90;
    their Opinions and ridiculous Projects to raise the Cupola, iii, 91;
    Filippo's Opposition and Discourse, iii, 92;
    taken for a Madman, and driven out of the Assembly, iii, 93;
    his Discourse, iii, 94;
    his Arguments, and his Proposal that he who could make an Egg stand
    on one end should build the Cupola, iii, 94;
    his Plan submitted, iii, 96;
    its Adoption, iii, 99;
    Opposition encountered, iii, 101;
    Lorenzo Ghiberti associated with him, iii, 101;
    his Vexation and Despair, iii, 102;
    Commencement of the Work, iii, 103;
    Lorenzo's incapacity for such a Work, iii, 104;
    Filippo's Scheme to get rid of him, iii, 105;
    Lorenzo disgraced, iii, 109;
    Filippo appointed Sole Architect, iii, 111;
    his Industry, the wonderful Resources of his Mind, and his
    triumphant Success, iii, 112;
    Filippo chosen Magistrate of the City, iii, 116;
    Jealousies he still encountered, iii, 118;
    his Arrest, Mortifying Affront, and Triumph, iii, 118;
    Grandeur and Magnificence of his Cupola, iii, 120;
    his Enthusiasm, iii, 122;
    Brunelleschi and Donatello, iii, 123.

  Buffalmacco, the successor of Giotto, ii, 267;
    his comical Tricks to enjoy his sweetest Sleep, ii, 268;
    his Employment by the Nuns of Faenza, ii, 270;
    his Use of their best wine, ii, 272;
    his Employment by Bishop Guido, ii, 273;
    Comical Pranks of the Bishop's Monkey, ii, 274;
    his Trick on the Bishop, ii, 277;
    Origin of Libel Painting, ii, 278;

  Utility of ancient paintings, ii, 280;
    his Commission from the Countryman, and its curious execution, ii, 282;
    his Commission from the Perugians, ii, 283;
    their Impertinence requited, ii, 284;
    his Novel Mode of enforcing Payment, ii, 285.

  Callot, Jacques, iii, 176;
    his uncontrollable Passion for Art, iii, 176;
    his Patriotism, iii, 177.

  Callimachus--his invention of the Corinthian Capital, i, 152.

  Cambiaso, Luca--his Precocity and remarkable Facility of Hand, iii, 187;
    his Invitation to Spain, iii, 188;
    Luca and Philip II., iii, 189;
    his Artistic Merits, iii, 190;
    Boschini and Mengs' Opinions, iii, 190.

  Campaspe and Apelles, i, 21.

  Campus Martius, i, 91.

  Cano, Alonso, i, 230;
    his Liberality, i, 231;
    his Eccentricities, i, 231;
    his Hatred of the Jews, i, 232;
    his Ruling Passion strong in Death, i, 234;
    Cano and the Intendant of the Bishop of Malaga, iii, 203;
    his love of Sculpture, iii, 204.

  Canova--his Visit to his Native Place in his old age, i, 32.

  Capitol, ancient, of Rome, iii, 59.

  Capugnano and Lionello Spada, iii, 247.

  Caracci, the School of, ii, 122.

  Caracci, Annibale--his Letter to Lodovico, and his Opinion of the
    Works of Correggio, i, 253;
    instance of his Skill, ii, 137;
    his Jealousy of Agostino, iii, 258.

  Carburi, Count--his Skill in Engineering, iii, 42.

  Caracciolo, Gio. Battista--his Intrigues, ii, 128.

  Carducci, Bartolomeo--his kind Criticism, iii, 203.

  Carlos, the Four, of the 17th Century, ii, 184.

  Caravaggio, Michael Angelo da--his Quarrelsome Disposition
    and his Death, iii, 248.

  Carreño, Don Juan, and Charles II, iii, 208;
    his Copy of Titian's St. Margaret, iii, 208;
    his Abstraction of Mind, iii, 209.

  Castagno, Andrea del, his Treachery and Death, ii, 144.

  Castillo's Sarcasm on Alfaro, iii, 204.

  Catacombs of Egypt, iii, 12.

  Catino, the Sagro, or Emerald Dish, iii, 215.

  Cellini, Benvenute, iii, 255;
    Cellini and Urban VIII;
    his absolution for sins committed in the service of the
    Church, iii, 255.

  Cespedes, Pablo--his Last Supper, iii, 209;
    Zuccaro's Compliment to Cespedes, iii, 210.

  Chair of St. Peter, iii, 213.

  Church, St Peter's, iii, 61

  Churches of Rome, iii, 60.

  Cimabue, Giovanni--Sketch of his Life, ii, 251;
    his Style, ii, 252;
    his Passion for Art, ii, 252;
    his famous picture of the Virgin, ii, 253;
    remarkable instance of homage to Art, ii, 254;
    his Works, ii, 255;
    his Death, ii, 256;
    his Care of Giotto, ii, 257.

  Cloaca Maxima at Rome, ii, 42.

  Coello, Claudio, his challenge to Giordano, ii, 234.

  Column, Trajan's, i, 164.

  Column of Austerlitz, iii, 280.

  Colosseum, description of, ii, 29;
    Montaigne's quaint account of its Spectacles, ii, 31.

  Colossus of the Sun at Rhodes, ii, 162.

  "Columbus and the Egg," story of, derived by him from
    Brunelleschi, iii, 95.

  Contarini, Cav. Giovanni--his skill in Portraits, ii, 139.

  Contri, Antonio--his method of transferring frescos from walls to
    canvass, ii, 146;
    see also Palmarolis, ii, 147.

  Cooper, J. Fennimore--his Encouragement of Greenough, i, 66;
    his Letter to Induce his Countrymen to Patronize their own
    Artists, i, 67.

  Corenzio, Belisario--his Intrigues, ii, 128.

  Corinthian Capital, invention of, i, 152.

  Correggio--Sketch of his Life, i, 243;
    his Cupola of the Church of St. John at Parma, i, 244;
    his grand Cupola of the Cathedral, i, 246;
    his Fate Exaggerated, i, 249;
    Lanzi's Opinion, i, 251;
    his Marriage and Children, i, 252;
    Caracci's Opinion of Correggio, and his Letter, i, 258;
    his Enthusiasm, i, 255;
    his Grace, i, 255;
    Correggio and the Monks, i, 256;
    his Kindness--his Muleteer, i, 256;
    Duke of Wellington's Correggio, i, 257;
    Correggio's Ancona, i, 257;
    Portraits of Correggio, i, 258;
    did Correggio ever visit Rome? i, 259;
    Singular History of Correggio's Adoration of the Shepherds, i, 261;
    of his Education of Cupid, i, 262;
    of a Magdalen, i, 264;
    of a Charity, i, 265;
    the celebrated Nótte of Correggio, iii, 259.

  Cortona, Pietro--Sketch of his Life, iii, 253;
    Anecdotes of, iii, 254.

  David, Jacques Louis, i, 176;
    his Politics and Love of Liberty, i, 176;
    David and Napoleon, i, 177;
    his Banishment to Brussels, i, 177;
    his famous picture of the Coronation of Napoleon, i, 178;
    David and Canova, i, 179;
    Napoleon's Compliments to David, i, 180;
    the King of Wurtemberg's, i, 181;
    List of Portraits it contained, i, 182;
    its Barbarous Destruction by the Bourbons, i, 184;
    David and the Duke of Wellington at Brussels, i, 184;
    David and the Cardinal Caprara, i, 185;
    Talma and David in his Banishment, 1, 186.

  Denon, the Baron--his description of the Necropolis of Thebes, iii, 16,
    his Employment by Napoleon, iii, 802.

  Digby, Sir Kenelm--his Love Adventure in Spain, iii, 199.

