With the appointment of the prisoner's attorney the crowd in the court-room craned their necks
in closer attention, one man standing on his chair for a better view until a deputy ordered
him down. They knew what the charge was. It was the defence they all wanted to hear. That had
been the topic of conversation around the tavern stoves of Bug Hollow for months past.

Cartwright began by asking that the mail-carrier be recalled. The little man again took the stand.

The methods of these police-court lawyers always interest me. They are gamblers in evidence,
most of them. They take their chances as the cases go on; some of them know the jury--one or
two is enough; some are learned in the law--more learned, often, than the prosecutor, who is
a Government appointee with political backers, and now and then one of them knows the Judge,
who is also a political appointee and occasionally has his party to care for. All are valuable
in an election, and a few of them are honest. This one, my neighbor told me, had held office
as a police justice and was a leader in his district.

Cartwright drew his gloves carefully from his hands, laid his silk hat on a chair, dropped
into it a package of legal papers tied with a red string, and, adjusting his glasses, fixed
his eyes on the mail-carrier. The expression on his face was bland and seductive.

"At what hour do you say the attempted robbery took place, Mr. Bowditch?"

"About eleven o'clock."

"Did you have a watch?"

"No."

"How do you know, then?" The question was asked in a mild way as if he intended to help the
carrier's memory.

"I don't know exactly; it may have been half-past ten or eleven."

"You, of course, saw the man's face?"

"No."

"Then you heard him speak?" Same tone as if trying his best to encourage the witness in his
statements.

"No." This was said with some positiveness. The mail-carrier evidently intended to tell the truth.

Cartwright turned quickly with a snarl like that of a dog suddenly goaded into a fight.

"How can you swear, then, that the prisoner made the assault?"

The little man changed color and stammered out in excuse:

"He was as big as him, anyway, and there ain't no other like him nowhere in them parts."

"Oh, he was as big as him, was he?" This retort came with undisguised contempt. "And there
are no others like him, eh? Do you know everybody in Bell County, Mr. Bowditch?"

The mail-carrier did not answer.

Cartwright waited until the discomfiture of the witness could be felt by the jury, dismissed
him with a wave of his hand, and, looking over the room, beckoned to an old man seated by a
girl--the same couple he had been talking to before his appointment by the Court--and said
in a loud voice:

"Will Mr. Perkins Tilden take-the stand?"

At the mention of his father's name, Bud, who had maintained throughout his indifferent attitude,
straightened himself erect in his chair with so quick a movement that the deputy edged a foot
nearer and instinctively slid his hand to his hip-pocket.

A lean, cadaverous, painfully thin old man in answer to his name rose to his feet and edged
his way through the crowd to the witness-chair. He was an inch taller than his son, though
only half his weight, and was dressed in a suit of cheap cloth of the fashion of long ago,
the coat too small for him, even for his shrunken shoulders, and the sleeves reaching only
to his wrists. As he took his seat, drawing in his long legs toward his chair, his knee-bones,
under the strain, seemed to be on the point of coming through his trousers. His shoulders were
bowed, the incurve of his thin stomach following the line of his back. As he settled back in
his chair he passed his hand nervously over his mouth, as if his lips were dry.

Cartwright's manner to this witness was the manner of a lackey who hangs on every syllable
that falls from his master's lips.

"At what time, Mr. Tilden, did your son Bud reach your house on the night of the robbery?"

The old man cleared his throat and said, as if weighing each word:

"At ten minutes past ten o'clock."

"How do you fix the time?"

"I had just wound the clock when Bud come in."

"How, Mr. Tilden, how far is it to the cross-roads where the mail-carrier says he was robbed?"

"About a mile and a half from my place."

"And how long would it take an able-bodied man to walk it?"

"'Bout fifteen minutes."

"Not more?"

"No, sir."

The Government's attorney had no questions to ask, and said so with a certain assumed nonchalance.

Cartwright bowed smilingly, dismissed Bud's father with a satisfied gesture of the hand, looked
over the court-room with the air of a man who was unable at the moment to find what he wanted,
and in a low voice called: "Jennetta Mooro!"

The girl, who sat within three feet of Cartwright, having followed the old man almost to the
witness-stand, rose timidly, drew her shawl closer about her shoulders, and took the seat vacated
by Bud's father. She had that half-fed look in her face which one sometimes finds in the women
of the mountain-districts. She was frightened and very pale. As she pushed her poke-bonnet
back from her ears her unkempt brown hair fell about her neck.

But Tilden, at mention of her name, half-started from his chair and would have risen to his
feet had not the officer laid his hand upon him.

He seemed on the point of making some protest which the action of the officer alone restrained.

Cartwright, after the oath had been administered, began in a voice so low that the jury stretched
their necks to listen:

"Miss Moore, do you know the prisoner?"

"Yes, sir, I know Bud." She had one end of the shawl between her fingers and was twisting it
aimlessly. Every eye in the room was fastened upon her.

"How long have you known him?"

There was a pause, and then she said in a faint voice:

"Ever since he and me growed up."

"Ever since you and he grew up, eh?" This repetition was in a loud voice, so that any juryman
dull of hearing might catch it. "Was he at your house on the night of the robbery?"

"Yes, sir."

"At what time?"

"'Bout ten o'clock." This was again repeated.

"How long did he stay?"

"Not more'n ten minutes."

"Where did he go then?"

"He said he was goin' home."

"How far is it to his home from your house?"

"'Bout ten minutes' walk."

"That will do, Miss Moore," said Cartwright, and took his seat.

The Government prosecutor, who had sat with shoulders hunched up, his wings pulled in, rose
to his feet with the aid of a chair-back, stretched his long arms above his head, and then,
lowering one hand level with the girl's face, said, as he thrust one sharp, skinny finger toward
her:

"Did anybody else come to see you the next night after the robbery?"

There was a pause, during which Cartwright busied himself with his papers. One of his methods
was never to seem interested in the cross-examination of any one of his witnesses.

The girl's face flushed, and she began to fumble the shawl nervously with her fingers.

"Yes, Hank Halliday," she murmured, in a low voice.

"Mr. Halliday, who has testified here?"

"Yes, sir."

"What did he want?"

"He wanted to know if I'd got a letter he'd writ me day before. And I tol' him I hadn't. Then
he 'lowed he'd a-brought it to me himself if he'd knowed Bud was goin' to turn thief and hold
up the mail-man. I hadn't heard nothin' 'bout it and nobody else had till he began to talk.
I opened the door then and tol' him to walk out; that I wouldn't hear nobody speak that way
'bout Bud Tilden. That was 'fore they'd 'rested Bud."

"Have you got that letter now?"

"No, sir."

"Did you ever get it?"

"No, sir."

"Did you ever see it?"

"No, and I don't think it was ever writ."

"But he has written you letters before?"

"He used to; he don't now."

"That will do."

The girl took her place again behind the old man.

Cartwright rose to his feet with great dignity, walked to the chair on which rested his hat,
took from it the package of papers to serve as an orator's roll--he did not open it, and they
evidently had no bearing on the case--and addressed the Judge, the package held aloft in his hand:

"Your Honor, there's not been a particle of evidence so far produced in this court to convict
this man of this crime. I have not conferred with him, and therefore do not know what answers
he has to make to this infamous charge. I am convinced, however, that his own statement under
oath will clear up at once any doubt remaining in the minds of this honorable jury of his innocence."

This was said with a certain ill-concealed triumph in his voice. I saw now why he had taken
the case, and saw, too, the drift of his defence--everything thus far pointed to the old hackneyed
plea of an alibi. He had evidently determined on this course of action when he sat listening
to the stories Bud's father and the girl had told him as he sat beside them on the bench near
the door. Their testimony, taken in connection with the uncertain testimony of the Government's
principal witness, the mail-carrier, as to the exact time of the assault, together with the
prisoner's testimony stoutly denying the crime, would insure either an acquittal or a disagreement.
The first would result in his fees being paid by the court, the second would add to this amount
whatever Bud's friends could scrape together to induce him to go on with the second trial.
In either case his masterly defence was good for an additional number of clients and perhaps--of
votes. It is humiliating to think that any successor of Choate, Webster, or Evarts should earn
his bread in this way, but it is true all the same.

"The prisoner will take the stand!" cried Cartwright, in a firm voice.

As the words left his mouth, the noise of shuffling feet and the shifting of positions for
a bettor view of the prisoner became so loud that the Judge rapped for order, the clerk repeating
it with the end of his ruler.

Bud lifted himself to his feet slowly (his being called was evidently as much of a surprise
to him as it was to the crowded room), looked about him carelessly, his glance resting first
on the girl's face and then on the deputy beside him. He stepped clumsily down from the raised
platform and shouldered his way to the witness-chair. The prosecuting attorney had evidently
been amazed at the flank movement of his opponent, for he moved his position so he could look
squarely in Bud's face. As the prisoner sank into his seat, the room became hushed in silence.

Bud kissed the book mechanically, hooked his feet together and, clasping his big hands across
his waist-line, settled his great body between the arms of the chair, with his chin resting
on his shirt-front. Cartwright, in his most impressive manner, stepped a foot closer to Bud's
chair.

"Mr. Tilden, you have heard the testimony of the mail-carrier; now be good enough to tell the
jury where you were on the night of the robbery--how many miles from this mail-sack?" and he
waved his hand contemptuously toward the bag. It was probably the first time in all his life
that Bud had heard any man dignify his personality with any such title.

In recognition of the compliment, Bud raised his chin slightly and fixed his eyes more intently
on his questioner. Up to this time he had not taken the slightest notice of him.

"'Bout as close's I could git to it--'bout three feet, I should say--maybe less."

Cartwright gave a slight start and bit his lip. Evidently the prisoner had misunderstood him.
The silence continued.

"I don't mean here, Mr. Tilden;" and he pointed to the bag. "I mean the night of the so-called
robbery."

"That's what I said; 'bout as close's I could git."

"Well, did you rob the mail?" This was asked uneasily, but with a half-concealed laugh in his
voice as if the joke would appear in a minute.

"No."

"No, of course not." The tone of relief was apparent.

"Well, do you know anything about the cutting of the bag?"

"Yes."

"Who did it?"

"Me."

"You?" The surprise was now an angry one.

"Yes, me."

At this unexpected reply the Judge pushed his glasses high up on his forehead with a quick
motion and leaned over his bench, his eyes on the prisoner. The jury looked at each other with
amazement; such scenes were rare in their experience. The prosecuting attorney smiled grimly.
Cartwright looked as if someone had struck him a sudden blow in the face.

"What for?" he stammered. It was evidently the only question left for him to ask. All his self-control
was gone now, his face livid, an angry look in his eyes. That any man with State's prison yawning
before him could make such a fool of himself seemed to astound him.

Bud turned slowly and, pointing his finger at Halliday, said between his closed teeth:

"Ask Hank Halliday; he knows."

The buzzard sprang to his feet. There was the scent of carrion in the air now; I saw it in
his eyes.

"We don't want to ask Mr. Halliday; we want to ask you. Mr. Halliday is not on trial, and we
want the truth if you can tell it."

The irregularity of the proceeding was unnoticed in the tense excitement.

Bud looked at him as a big mastiff looks at a snarling cur with a look more of pity than contempt.
Then he said slowly, accentuating each word:

"Keep yer shirt on. You'll git the truth--git the whole of it. Git what you ain't lookin' for.
There ain't no liars up in our mountains 'cept them skunks in Gov'ment pay you fellers send
up to us, and things like Hank Halliday. He's wuss nor any skunk. A skunk's a varmint that
don't stink tell ye meddle with him, but Hank Halliday stinks all the time. He's one o' them
fellers that goes 'round with books in their pockets with picters in 'em that no girl oughter
see and no white man oughter read. He gits 'em down to Louisville. There ain't a man in Pondville
won't tell ye it's true. He shoved one in my outside pocket over to Pondville when I warn't
lookin', the day 'fore I held up this man Bowditch, and went and told the fellers 'round the
tavern that I had it. They come and pulled it out and had the laugh on me, and then he began
to talk and said he'd write to Jennetta and send her one o' the picters by mail and tell her
he'd got it out o' my coat, and he did. Sam Kellers seen Halliday with the letter and told
me after Bowditch had got it in his bag. I laid for Bowditch at Pondville Corners, but he got
past somehow, and I struck in behind Bill Somers's mill, and crossed the mountain and caught
up with him as he was ridin' through the piece o' woods near the clearin'. I didn't know but
he'd try to shoot, and I didn't want to hurt him, so I crep' up behind and threw him in the
bushes, cut a hole in the bag, and got the letter. That's the only one I wanted and that's
the only one I took. I didn't rob no mail, but I warn't goin' to hev an honest, decent girl
like Jennetta git that letter, and there warn't no other way."

The stillness that followed was broken only by the Judge's voice.

"What became of that letter?"

"I got it. Want to see it?"

"Yes."

Bud felt in his pockets as if looking for something, and then, with an expression as if he
had suddenly remembered, remarked:

"No, I ain't got none. They stole my knife when they 'rested me." Then facing the courtroom,
he added: "Somebody lend me a knife, and pass me my hat over there 'longside them sheriffs."

The court-crier took the hat from one of the deputies, and the clerk, in answer to a nod of
assent from the Judge, passed Bud an ink-eraser with a steel blade in one end.

The audience now had the appearance of one watching a juggler perform a trick. Bud grasped
the hat in one hand, turned back the brim, inserted the point of the knife between the hat
lining and the hat itself and drew out a yellow envelope stained with dirt and perspiration.

"Here it is. I ain't opened it, and what's more, they didn't find it when they searched me;"
and he looked again toward the deputies.

The Judge leaned forward in his seat and said:

"Hand me the letter."

The letter was passed up by the court-crier, every eye following it. His Honor examined the
envelope, and, beckoning to Halliday, said:

"Is this your letter?"

Halliday stepped to the side of the Judge, fingered the letter closely, and said: "Looks like
my writin'."

"Open it and see."

Halliday broke the seal with his thumb-nail, and took out half a sheet of note-paper closely
written on one side, wrapped about a small picture-card.

"Yes, it's my letter;" and he glanced sheepishly around the room and hung his head, his face
scarlet.

The Judge leaned back in his chair, raised his hand impressively, and said gravely:

"This case is adjourned until ten o'clock tomorrow."

Two days later I again met the Warden as he was entering the main door of the jail. He had
been over to the Court-house, he said, helping the deputy along with a new "batch of moonshiners."

"What became of Bud Tilden?" I asked.

"Oh, he got it in the neck for robbin' the mails, just's I told you he would. Peached on himself
like a d---- fool and give everything dead away. He left for Kansas this morning. Judge give
him twenty years."

He is still in the lock-step at Leavenworth prison. He has kept it up now for two years. His
hair is short, his figure bent, his step sluggish. The law is slowly making an animal of him--that
wise, righteous law which is no respecter of persons.

III

"ELEVEN MONTHS AND TEN DAYS"

It was a feeble old man of seventy-two this time who sat facing the jury, an old man with bent
back, scant gray hair, and wistful, pleading eyes.

He had been arrested in the mountains of Kentucky and had been brought to Covington for trial,
chained to another outlaw, one of those "moonshiners" who rob the great distilleries of part
of their profits and the richest and most humane Government on earth of part of its revenue.

For eleven months and ten days he had been penned up in one of the steel cages of Covington jail.

I recognized him the moment I saw him.

He was the old fellow who spoke to me from between the bars of his den on my visit the week
before to the inferno--the day I found Samanthy North and her baby--and who told me then he
was charged with "sellin'" and that he "reckoned" he was the oldest of all the prisoners about
him. He had on the same suit of coarse, homespun clothes--the trousers hiked up toward one
shoulder from the strain of a single suspender; the waistcoat held by one button; the shirt
open at the neck, showing the wrinkled throat, wrinkled as an old saddle-bag, and brown, hairy
chest.

Pie still carried his big slouch hat, dust-begrimed and frayed at the edges. It hung over one
knee now, a red cotton handkerchief tucked under its brim. He was superstitious about it, no
doubt; he would wear it when he walked out a free man, and wanted it always within reach. Hooked
in its band was a trout-fly, a red ibis, some souvenir, perhaps, of the cool woods that he
loved, and which brought back to him the clearer the happy, careless days which might never
be his again.

The trout-fly settled all doubts in my mind as to his origin and his identity. He was not a
"moonshiner"; he was my old trout fisherman, Jonathan Gordon, come back to life, even to his
streaming, unkempt beard, leathery skin, thin, peaked nose, and deep, searching eyes. That
the daisies which Jonathan loved were at that very moment blooming over his grave up in his
New Hampshire hills, and had been for years back, made no difference to me. I could not be
mistaken. The feeble old man sitting within ten feet of me, fidgeting about in his chair, the
glare of the big windows flooding his face with light, his long legs tucked under him, his
bony hands clasped together, the scanty gray hair adrift over his forehead, his slouch hat
hooked over his knee, was my own Jonathan come back to life. His dog, George, too, was somewhere
within reach, and so were his fishing-pole and creel, with its leather shoulder-band polished
like a razor-strop. You who read this never saw Jonathan, perhaps, but you can easily carry
his picture in your mind by remembering some one of the other old fellows you used to see on
Sunday mornings hitching their horses to the fence outside of the country church, or sauntering
through the woods with a fish-pole over their shoulders and a creel by their sides, or with
their heads together on the porch of some cross-roads store, bartering eggs and butter for
cotton cloth and brown sugar. All these simple-minded, open-aired, out-of-doors old fellows,
with the bark on them, are very much alike.

The only difference between the two men lay in the expression of the two faces. Jonathan always
looked straight at you when he talked, so that you could fathom his eyes as you would fathom
a deep pool that mirrored the stars. This old man's eyes wavered from one to another, lighting
first on the jury, then on the buzzard of a District Attorney, and then on the Judge, with
whom rested the freedom which meant life or which meant imprisonment: at his age--death. This
wavering look was the look of a dog who had been an outcast for weeks, or who had been shut
up with a chain about his throat; one who had received only kicks and cuffs for pats of tenderness--a
cringing, pleading look ready to crouch beneath some fresh cruelty.

This look, as the trial went on and the buzzard of an attorney flapped out his denunciations,
deepened to an expression of abject fear. In trying to answer the questions hurled at him,
he would stroke his parched throat mechanically with his long fingers as if to help the syllables
free themselves. In listening to the witnesses he would curve his body forward, one skinny
hand cupped behind his ear, his jaw dropping slowly, revealing the white line of the lips above
the straggling beard. Now and then as he searched the eyes of the jury there would flash out
from his own the same baffled, anxious look that comes into dear old Joe Jefferson's face when
he stops half-way up the mountain and peers anxiously into the eyes of the gnomes who have
stolen out of the darkness and are grouping themselves silently about him--a look expressing
one moment his desire to please and the next his anxiety to escape.

There was no doubt about the old man's crime, not the slightest. It had been only the tweedledum
and tweedledee of the law that had saved him the first time. They would not serve him now.
The evidence was too conclusive, the facts too plain. The "deadwood," as such evidence is called
by the initiated, lay in heaps--more than enough to send him to State prison for the balance
of his natural life. The buzzard of a District Attorney who had first scented out his body
with an indictment, and who all these eleven months and ten days had sat with folded wings
and hunched-up shoulders, waiting for his final meal--I had begun to dislike him in the Bud
Tilden trial, but I hated him now (a foolish, illogical prejudice, for he was only doing his
duty as he saw it)--had full control of all the "deadwood"; had it with him, in fact. There
were not only some teaspoonfuls of the identical whiskey which this law-breaker had sold, all
in an eight-ounce vial properly corked and labelled, but there was also the identical silver
dime which had been paid for it. One of the jury was smelling this whiskey when I entered the
court-room; another was fingering the dime. It was a good dime, and bore the stamp of the best
and greatest nation on the earth. On one side was the head of the Goddess of Liberty and on
the other was the wreath of plenty: some stalks of corn and the bursting heads of wheat, with
one or two ivy leaves twisted together, suggesting honor and glory and achievement. The "deadwood"--the
evidence--was all right. All that remained was for the buzzard to flap his wings once or twice
in a speech; then the jury would hold a short consultation, a few words would follow from the
presiding Judge, and the carcass would be ready for the official undertaker, the prison Warden.

How wonderful the system, how mighty the results!

One is often filled with admiration and astonishment at the perfect working of this mighty
engine, the law. Properly adjusted, it rests on the bedplate of equal rights to all men; is
set in motion by the hot breath of the people--superheated often by popular clamor; is kept
safe by the valve of a grand jury; is governed in its speed by the wise and prudent Judge,
and regulated in its output by a jury of twelve men.

Sometimes in the application of its force this machine, being man-made, like all machines,
and thus without a soul, gets out of order, loosens a cog or bolt perhaps, throwing the mechanism
"out of gear," as it is called. When this happens, the engine resting on its bed-plate still
keeps its foundation, but some lesser part, the loom or lathe or driving-wheel, which is another
way of saying the arrest, the trial or the conviction, goes awry. Sometimes the power-belt
is purposely thrown off, the machinery stopped, and a consultation takes place, resulting in
a disagreement or a new trial. When the machine is started again, it is started more carefully,
with the first experience remembered. Sometimes the rightful material--the criminal, or the
material from which the criminal is made--to feed this loom or lathe or driving-wheel, is replaced
by some unsuitable material like the girl whose hair became entangled in a flying-belt and
whose body was snatched up and whirled mercilessly about. Only then is the engine working on
its bed-plate brought to a standstill. The steam of the boiler, the breath of the people, keeps
up, but it is withheld from the engine until the mistake can be rectified and the girl rescued.
The law of mercy, the divine law, now asserts itself. This law, being the law of God, is higher
than the law of man. Some of those who believe in the man-law and who stand over the mangled
body of the victim, or who sit beside her bed, bringing her slowly back to life, affirm that
the girl was careless and deserved her fate. Others, who believe in the God-law, maintain that
the engine is run not to kill but to protect, not to maim but to educate, and that the fault
lies in the wrong application of the force, not in the force itself.

So it was with this old man. Eleven months and ten days before this day of his second trial
(eleven months and three days when I first saw him), a flying-belt set in motion up in his
own mountain-home had caught and crushed him. To-day he was still in the maw of the machinery,
his courage gone, his spirit broken, his heart torn. The group about his body, not being a
sympathetic group, were insisting that the engine could do no wrong; that the victim was not
a victim at all, but lawful material to be ground up. This theory was sustained by the District
Attorney. Every day he must have fresh materials. The engine must run. The machinery must be fed.

And his record?

Ah, how often is this so in the law!--his record must be kept good.

       *       *       *       *       *

After the whiskey had been held up to the light and the dime fingered, the old man's attorney--a
young lawyer from the old man's own town, a smooth-faced young fellow who had the gentle look
of a hospital nurse and who was doing his best to bring the broken body back to life and freedom--put
the victim on the stand.

"Tell the jury exactly how it all happened," he said, "and in your own way, just as you told
it to me."

"I'll try, sir; I'll do my best." It was Rip's voice, only fainter. He tugged at his collar
as if to breathe the easier, cleared his throat and began again. "I ain't never been in a place
like this but once before, and I hope you'll forgive me if I make any mistakes," and he looked
about the room, a flickering, half-burnt-out smile trembling on his lips.

"Well, I got a piece of land 'bout two miles back of my place that belongs to my wife, and
I ain't never fenced it in, for I ain't never had no time somehow to cut the timber to do it,
she's been so sickly lately. 'Bout a year ago I was goin' 'long toward Hi Stephens's mill a-lookin'
for muskrats when I heard some feller's axe a-workin' away, and I says to Hi, 'Hi, ain't that
choppin' goin' on on the wife's land?' and he said it was, and that Luke Shanders and his boys
had been drawin' out cross-ties for the new railroad; thought I knowed it.

"Well, I kep' 'long up and come on Luke jes's he was throwin' the las' stick onto his wagon.
He kinder started when he see me, jumped on and begin to drive off. I says to him, 'Luke,'
I says, 'I ain't got no objection to you havin' a load of wood; there's plenty of it; but it
don't seem right for you to take it 'thout askin', 'specially since the wife's kind o' peaked
and it's her land and not yourn.' He hauled the team back on their hind legs, and he says:

"'When I see fit to ask you or your old woman's leave to cut timber on my own land, I will.
Me and Lawyer Fillmore has been a-lookin' into them deeds, and this timber is mine;' and he
driv off.

"I come along home and studied 'bout it a bit, and me and the wife talked it over. We didn't
want to make no fuss, but we knowed he was alyin', but that ain't no unusual thing for Luke
Shanders.

"Well, the nex' mornin' I got into Pondville 'bout eight o'clock and set a-waitin' till Lawyer
Fillmore come in. He looked kind o' shamefaced when he see me, and I says, 'What's this Luke
Shanders's been a-tellin' me 'bout your sayin' my wife's timberland is hisn?'

"Then he began 'splainin' that the 'riginal lines was drawed wrong and that old man Shanders's
land, Luke's father, run to the brook and took in all the white oak on the wife's lot and----"

The buzzard sprang to his feet and shrieked out:

"Your Honor, I object to this rigmarole. Tell the jury right away"--and he faced the prisoner--"what
you know about this glass of whiskey. Get right down to the facts; we're not cutting cross-ties
in this court."

The old man caught his breath, placed his fingers suddenly to his lips as if to choke back
the forbidden words, and, in an apologetic voice, murmured:

"I'm gettin' there's fast's I kin, sir, 'deed I am; I ain't hidin' nothin'."

He wasn't. Anyone could see it in his face.

"Better let him go on in his own way," remarked the Judge, indifferently. His Honor was looking
over some papers, and the monotonous tones of the witness diverted attention. Most of the jury,
too, had already lost interest in the story. One of the younger members had settled himself
in his chair, thrust his hands into his pockets, stretched out his legs, and had shut his eyes
as if to take a nap. Nothing so far had implicated either the whiskey or the dime; when it
did he would wake up.

The old man turned a grateful glance toward the Judge, leaned forward in his chair, and with
bent head looked about him on the floor as if trying to pick up the lost end of his story.
The young attorney, in an encouraging tone, helped him find it with a question:

"When did you next see Mr. Fillmore and Luke Shanders?"

"When the trial come off," answered the old man, raising his head again. "Course we couldn't
lose the land. 'Twarn't worth much till the new railroad come through; then the oak come handy
for cross-ties. That's what set Fillmore and Luke Shanders onto it.

"When the case was tried, the Judge seed they couldn't bring no 'riginal deed 'cept one showin'
that Luke Shanders and Fillmore was partners in the steal, and the Judge 'lowed they'd have
to pay for the timber they cut and hauled away.

"They went round then a-sayin' they'd get even, though wife and I 'lowed we'd take anything
reasonable for what hurt they done us. And that went on till one day 'bout a year ago Luke
come into my place and said he and Lawyer Fillmore would he over the next day; that they was
tired o' fightin', and that if I was willin' to settle they was.

"One o' the new Gov'ment dep'ties was sittin' in my room at the time. He was goin' 'long up
to town-court, he said, and had jest drapped in to pass the time o' day. There he is sittin'
over there," and he pointed to his captor.

"I hadn't never seen him before, though I know a good many of 'em, but he showed me his badge,
and I knowed who he was.

"The nex' mornin' Lawyer Fillmore and Luke stopped outside and hollered for me to come out.
I wanted 'em to come in. Wife had baked some biscuit and we was determined to be sociable-like,
now that they was willin' to do what was fair, and I 'lowed they must drive up and git out.
They said that that's what they come for, only that they had to go a piece down the road, and
they'd be back agin in a half-hour with the money.

"Then Luke Shanders 'lowed he was cold, and asked if I had a drap o' whiskey."

At mention of the all-important word a visible stir took place in the court-room. The young
man with the closed eyes opened them and sat up in his chair. The jury ceased whispering to
one another; the Judge pushed his spectacles back on his forehead and moved his papers aside;
the buzzard stretched his long neck an inch farther out of his shirt-collar and lowered his
head in attention. The spigot, which up to this time had run only "emptyings," was now giving
out the clear juice of the wine-vat. Each man bent his tin cup of an ear to catch it. The old
man noticed the movement and looked about him anxiously, as if dreading another rebuff. He
started to speak, cleared his throat, pulled nervously at his beard for a moment, glancing
furtively about the room, and in a lower tone repeated the words:

"Asked if I had a drap o' whiskey. Well, I always take a dram when I want it, and I had some
prime stuff my son Ned had sent me over from Frankfort, so I went hack and poured out 'bout
four fingers in a glass, and took it out to him.

"After he drunk it he handed me back the glass and driv off, sayin' he'd be round later. I
took the glass into the house agin and sot it 'longside the bottle on the mantel, and when
I turned round there sot the Gov'ment dep'ty. He'd come in, wife said, while I was talkin'
with Luke in the road. When he see the glass he asked if I had a license, and I told him I
didn't sell no liquor, and he asked me what that was, and I told him it was whiskey, and then
he got the bottle and took a smell of it, and then he held up the glass and turned it upside
down and out drapped a ten-cent piece. Then he 'rested me!"

The jury was all attention now; the several exhibits were coming into view. One fat, red-faced
juror, who had a dyed mustache and looked like a sporting man, would have laughed outright
had not the Judge checked him with a stern look.

"You didn't put the dime there, did you?" the young attorney asked, in a tone that implied
a negative answer.

"No, sir; I don't take no money for what I give a man." This came with a slight touch of indignation.

"Do you know who put it there?"

