"Go home!" he cried. "Go home for the loss of a left hand! I'm not left- handed. Maybe I can't
carry a gun, but I can throw hand grenades!"

He went to the Major and the Major said also that he must go home.

The boy looked him straight in the eye:

"Excuse me, Major, saying I won't. But I won't let go your coat till you say I can stay," and
finally the Major had to give in and let him stay. He could not resist such pleading.

One poor fellow, wounded in his abdomen, was lying on a litter in a most uncomfortable position
suffering awful pain. The lassie came near and asked if she could do anything for him. He told
her he wanted to lie on his stomach, but the doctor, when she asked him, said "No" very shortly
and told her he must lie on his back. She stooped and turned him so that his position was more
comfortable, put his gas mask under his head, rolled his blanket so as to support his shoulders
better, and turned to go to another, and the poor suffering lad opened his eyes, held out his
hand and smiled as she went away.

The doctors said to the girls: "It is wonderful to have you around."

The Red Cross men and their rolling kitchens came to the front, but no women. Somehow in pain
and sickness no hand can sooth like a woman's. Perhaps God meant it to be so. Here at Morte
Fontaine was the first time a woman had ever worked in a field hospital.

The Salvation Army women worked all that drive.

It was a sad time, though, for the division went in to stay until they lost forty-five hundred
men, but it stayed two days after reaching that figure and lost about seventy-five thousand.

The doctor in charge of the evacuation hospital at Crepy spoke of the effect of the Salvation
Army girls, not alone upon the wounded, but also upon the medical-surgical staff and the men
of the hospital corps who acted as nurses in that advanced position. "Before they came," he
said, "we were overwrought, everyone seemed at the breaking point, what with the nervous tension
and danger. But the very sight of women working calmly had a soothing effect on everyone."

When the drive was over orders came to leave. The following is the official notice to the Salvation
Army officers:

G-1 Headquarters, 1st Division, American Expeditionary Forces, July 26, 1918.

Memorandum.

To Directors, Y.M.C.A., Red Cross, Salvation Army Services, 1st Division.

1. This division moves by rail to destination unknown beginning at 6.00 A.M., July 28th. Motor
organizations of the Division move overland. Your motorized units will accompany the advanced
section of the Division Supply Train, and will form a part of that train.

2. Time of departure and routes to be taken will be announced later.

3. Secretaries attached to units may accompany units, if it is so desired.

By command of Major-General Summerall.

                                      P. E. Peabody,
                                      Captain, Infantry,
                                      G-1

Copies: YMCA Red Cross Salvation Army G-3 C. of S. File

The girls stowed themselves and their belongings into the big truck. Just as they were about
to start they saw some infantry coming, seven men whom they knew, but in such a plight! They
were unshaven, with white, sunken faces, and great dark hollows under their eyes. They were
simply "all in," and could hardly walk.

Without an instant's hesitation the girls made a place for those poor, tired, dirty men in
the truck, and the invitation was gratefully accepted.

There were more poor forlorn fellows coming along the road. They kept meeting them every little
way, but they had no room to take in any more so they piled oranges in the back end of the
truck and gave them to all the boys they passed who were walking.

Now the girls were on their way to Senlis, where they had planned to take dinner at a hotel
in which they had dined before. It was one of the few buildings remaining in the town for the
Germans, when they left Senlis, had set it on fire and destroyed nearly everything. But as
the girls neared the town they began to think about the boys asleep in the back of the truck,
who probably hadn't had a square meal for a week, and they decided to take them with them.
So they woke them up when they arrived at the hotel. Oh, but those seven dirty, unshaven soldiers
were embarrassed with the invitation to dinner! At first they declined, but the girls insisted,
and they found a place to wash and tidy up themselves a bit. In a few minutes into the big
dining-room filled with French soldiers and a goodly sprinkling of French officers, marched
those two girls, followed by their seven big unshaven soldiers with their white faces and hollow
eyes, sat proudly down at a table in the very centre and ordered a big dinner. That is the
kind of girls Salvation Army lassies are. Never ashamed to do a big right thing.

After the dinner they took the boys to their divisional headquarters, where they found their
outfit.

They went on their way from Senlis to Dam-Martin to stay for a week back of the lines for rest.

There was a big French cantonment building here built for moving pictures, which was given
to them for a canteen, and they set up their stove and went to work making doughnuts, and doing
all the helpful things they could find to do for the boys who were soon to go to the front again.

Then orders came to move back to the Toul Sector.

 Those were wonderful moonlight nights at Saizerais, but the Boche
airplanes nearly pestered the life out of everybody.

"Gee!" said one of the boys, "if anybody ever says 'beautiful moonlight nights' to me when
I get home I don't know what I'll do to 'em!"

The boys were at the front, but not fighting as yet. Occasional shells would burst about their
hut here and there, but the girls were not much bothered by them. The thing that bothered them
most was an old "Vin" shop across the street that served its wine on little tables set out
in front on the sidewalk. They could not help seeing that many of the boys were beginning to
drink. Poor souls! The water was bad and scarce, sometimes poisoned, and their hearts were
sick for something, and this was all that presented itself. It was not much wonder. But when
the girls discovered the state of things they sent off three or four boys with a twenty-gallon
tank to scout for some water. They found it after much search and filled the big tank full
of delicious lemonade, telling the boys to help themselves.

All the time they were in that town, which was something like a week, the girls kept that tank
full of lemonade close by the door. They must have made seventy-five or a hundred gallons of
lemonade every day, and they had to squeeze all the lemons by hand, too! They told the boys:
"When you feel thirsty just come here and get lemonade as often as you want it!" No wonder
they almost worship those girls. And they had the pleasure of seeing the trade of the little
wine shop decidedly decrease.

However near the front you may go you will always find what is known over there in common parlance
as a "hole in the wall" where "vin blanche" and "vin rouge" and all kinds of light wines can
be had. And, of course, many soldiers would drink it. The Salvation Army tried to supply a
great need by having carloads of lemons sent to the front and making and distributing lemonade
freely.

One cannot realize the extent of this proposition without counting up all the lemons and sugar
that would be required, and remembering that supplies were obtained only by keeping in constant
touch with the Headquarters of that zone and always sending word immediately when any need
was discovered. There is nothing slow about the Salvation Army and they are not troubled with
too much red tape. If necessity presents itself they will even on occasion cut what they have
to help someone.

The airplanes visited them every night that week, and sometimes they did not think it worth
while to go to bed at all; they had to run to the safety trenches so often. It was just a little
bit of a village with dugouts out on the edge.

One night they had gone to bed and a terrific explosion occurred which rocked the little house
where they were. They thought of course the bomb had fallen in the village, but they found
it was quite outside. It had made such a big hole in the ground that you could put a whole
truck into it.

The trenches in which they hid were covered over with boards and sand, and were not bomb proof,
but they were proof against pieces of shell and shrapnel.

It was a very busy time for the girls because so many different outfits were passing and repassing
that they had to work from morning early till late at night.

At Bullionville the hut was in a building that bore the marks of much shelling. The American
boys promptly dubbed the place "Souptown."

The Division moved to Vaucouleurs for rest and replacements. At Vaucouleurs there was a great
big hut with a piano, a victrola, and a cookstove.

They started the canteen, made doughnuts and pies, and gave entertainments.

But best of all, there were wonderful meetings and numbers of conversions, often twenty and
twenty-five at a time giving themselves to Christ. The boys would get up and testify of their
changed feelings and of what Christ now meant to them, and the others respected them the more
for it.

They stayed here two weeks and everybody knew they were getting ready for a big drive. It was
a solemn time for the boys and they seemed to draw nearer to the Salvation Army people and
long to get the secret of their brave, unselfish lives, and that light in their eyes that defied
danger and death. In the distance you could hear the artillery, and the night before they left,
all night long, there was the tramp, tramp, tramp of feet, the boys "going up."

The next day the girls followed in a truck, stopping a few days at Pagny- sur-Meuse for rest.

VIII.

The Saint Mihiel Drive

The hut in Raulecourt was an old French barracks. Outside in the yard was an old French anti-aircraft
gun and a mesh of barbed wire entanglement. The woods all around was filled with our guns.
To the left was the enemy's third line trench. Three-quarters of the time the Boche were trying
to clean us up. Less than two miles ahead were our own front line trenches.

The field range was outside in the back yard.

One hot day in July a Salvation Army woman stood at the range frying doughnuts from eleven
in the morning until six at night without resting, and scarcely stopping for a bite to eat.
She fried seventeen hundred doughnuts, and was away from the stove only twice for a few minutes.
She claims, however, that she is not the champion doughnut fryer. The champion fried twenty-three
hundred in a day.

One day a soldier watching her tired face as she stood at the range lifting out doughnuts and
plopping more uncooked ones into the fat, protested.

"Say, you're awfully tired turning over doughnuts. Let me help you. You go inside and rest
a while. I'm sure I can do that."

She was tired and the boy looked eager, so she decided to accept his offer. He was very insistent
that she go away and rest, so she slipped in behind a screen to lie down, but peeped out to
watch how he was getting on. She saw him turn over the first doughnuts all right and drain
them, but he almost burned his fingers trying to eat one before it was fairly out of the fat;
and then she understood why he had been so anxious for her to "go away" and rest.

Often the boys would come to the lassies and say: "Say, Cap, I can help you. Loan me an apron."
And soon they would be all flour from their chin to their toes.

