Those letters, and others written before and after, did not reach Lord Cochrane till the end
of October. In the meanwhile, finding that the expected vessels did not arrive at Messina,
and that in that place it was impossible even for him to receive accurate information as to
the progress of affairs in London, he called at Malta about the middle of September, and thence
proceeded to Marseilles, as a convenient halting-place, in which he had better chance of hearing
how matters were proceeding, and from which he could easily go to meet the vessels when, if
ever, they were ready to join him. He reached Marseilles on the 12th of October, and on the
same day he forwarded a letter to Messrs. Ricardo. "I wrote to you a few days ago," he said,
"from Malta, and, as the packet sailed with a fair wind, you will receive that letter very
shortly. You will thereby perceive the distressing suspense in which I have been held, and
the inconvenience to which I have been exposed, by remaining on board this small vessel for
a period of five months, during all the heat of a Mediterranean summer, without exercise or
recreation. This situation has been rendered the more unpleasant, as I have had no means to
inform myself, except through the public papers, relative to the concern in which we are now
engaged. My patience, however, is now worn out, and I have come here to learn whether I am
to expect the steam-vessels or not,--whether the scandalous blunders of Mr. Galloway are to
be remedied by those concerned, or if an ill-timed parsimony is to doom Greece to inevitable
destruction; for such will be the consequence, if Ibrahim's resources are not cut up before
the period at which it is usual for him to commence operations. You know my opinions so well,
that it is unnecessary to repeat them to you. I shall, however, add, that the intelligence
and plans I have obtained since my arrival in the Mediterranean confirm these opinions, and
enable me to predict, with as much certainty as I ever could do on any enterprise, that if
the vessels and the means to pay six months' expenses are forwarded, there shall not be a Turkish
or Egyptian ship in the Archipelago at the termination of the winter. It may have been expected
that I should immediately proceed to Greece in this vessel. I might have done so at an earlier
period of my life, before I had proved by experience that advice is thrown away upon persons
in the situation and circumstances in which the Greek rulers and their people are unfortunately
placed. Having made up my mind on this subject, I must entreat you to let me know by the earliest
possible means what I am to expect in regard to the steamships. I see by the 'Globe' of the
2nd of last month that the holders of Greek stock were to have a meeting. I conclude they came
to some resolution, and this resolution I want to know. I wish I could give them my eyes to
see with--they would then pursue a course which would secure their interests. This, however,
is impossible; therefore they must, like the Greeks, be left to follow their own notions. I
have, however, no objections to your stating to these gentlemen, either publicly or privately,
that I pledge my reputation to free Greece if they will, by the smallest additional sacrifice
that may be required, put the stipulated force at my disposal."[A]

[Footnote A: This letter, like some others of this nature, is partly written in cypher, the
key to which is lost. Its concluding sentences, therefore, are not given.]

At Marseilles, Lord Cochrane received information, disheartening enough, though more encouraging
than was justified by the real state of affairs, with reference to his intended fleet. On the
14th of October he wrote to explain his position, as he himself understood it, to the Greek
Government. "By the most fortunate accident," he said, "I have met Mr. Hobhouse here, who,
from his correspondence with Messrs. Ricardo and others in London, enables me to state to you
that the two large steamboats will be completed on the 28th day of this month, and that they
will proceed on the following day for the rendezvous which I had assigned to them previous
to my departure. You may, therefore, count on their being in Greece about the 14th of next
month. The American frigate is said to be completed and on her way, and I feel a confident
hope that I shall be able here to add a very efficient ship of war to the before-mentioned
vessels.[A] It is probable," he added, "that many idle reports will be circulated here and
through the public prints, because, under existing circumstances, I find it necessary to appear
now as a person travelling about for private amusement. I can assure you, however, that the
hundred and sixty days which I have already spent in this small vessel, without ever having
my foot on shore till the day before yesterday, has been a sacrifice which I should not have
made for any other cause than that in which I am engaged; but I considered it essential to
conceal the real insignificance of my situation and allow rumours to circulate of squadrons
collecting in various parts, judging that the effect would be to embarrass the operations of
the enemy."

[Footnote A: It should here be explained that the building and fitting out of the two frigates
contracted for in New York, at a cost of 150,000l., having been assigned to persons whose mismanagement
was as scandalous as that which perplexed the Greek cause in London, one of them had been sold,
and with the proceeds and some other funds the other had been completed and fitted out, more
than 200,000l. having been spent upon her. She reached Greece at the end of 1826, there to
be known as the Hellas.]

That concealment had to be maintained, and the wearisome delays continued, for three months
more. All the promises of Mr. Galloway and all the efforts, real or pretended, of the Greek
deputies in London, were vain. The completion of the steam-vessels was retarded on all sorts
of pretexts, and when each little portion of the work was said to be done, it was found to
be so badly executed that it had to be cancelled and the whole thing done afresh. In this way
all the residue of the loan of 1825 was exhausted, and all for worse than nothing.

Lord Cochrane would never have been able to proceed to Greece at all, had the Greek deputies,
Orlando and Luriottis, who had contracted for his employment, been his only supporters. Fortunately,
however, he had other and worthier coadjutors. The Greek Committee in Paris did much on his
behalf, and yet more was done by the Philhellenes of Switzerland, with Chevalier Eynard at
their head, of whom one zealous member, Dr. L.A. Gosse, of Geneva, "well-informed, very zealous,
full of genuine enthusiasm for the cause of humanity, and an excellent physician," as M. Eynard
described him, was about to go in person to Greece, as administrator of the funds collected
by the Swiss Committee. Lord Cochrane's disconsolate arrival at Marseilles, and the miserable
failure of the plans for his enterprise, had not been known to M. Eynard and his friends a
week, before they set themselves to remedy the mischief as far as lay in their power. As a
first and chief movement they proposed to buy a French corvette, then lying in Marseilles Harbour,
and fit her out as a stout auxiliary to Lord Cochrane's little force expected from London and
New York. Lord Cochrane, being consulted on the scheme, eagerly acceded to it in a letter written
on the 25th of October. "As I have yet no certainty," he said, "that the person employed to
fit the machinery of the steam-vessels will now perform his task better than he has heretofore
done, I recommend purchasing the corvette, provided that she can be purchased for the sum of
200,000 francs, and, if funds are wanting, I personally am willing to advance enough to provision
the corvette, and am ready to proceed in that or any fit vessel. But I am quite resolved, without
a moral certainty of something following me, not to ruin and disgrace the cause by presenting
myself in Greece in a schooner of two carronades of the smallest calibre."

The corvette was bought and equipped; but in this several weeks were employed. In the interval,
for a week or two after the 8th of December, Lord Cochrane went to Geneva, there to be the
guest of Chevalier Eynard, to be introduced to Dr. Gosse, and to become personally acquainted
with many other Philhellenes.

Neither Lord Cochrane nor his friends could quite abandon hope of the ultimate completion of
the London steam-vessels. They felt, too, that with nothing but the new vessel, the American
frigate, and the Perseverance, Lord Cochrane would have very poor provision for his undertaking.
"I have this moment received a letter from his lordship," wrote M. Eynard to Mr. Hobhouse on
the 12th of January, 1827, "wherein he appears rather disappointed with respect to the scantiness
of the forces and the means placed at his disposal. He informs me that he has no officers,
few sailors; and that, in case the steamers should not arrive, he will not feel qualified to
encounter the Turkish and Egyptian naval forces, as well as the Algerines, who of all are the
best manned. 'I therefore shall not be able to undertake anything of moment,' continues his
lordship. 'Thus to stake my character and existence would be a mere Quixotic act. I will put
to sea, however, but still with a heavy heart; yet not until I have with me all requisites,
and my stores and ammunition be embarked likewise.' Discouragement appears throughout his lordship's
letter."

The discouragement is not to be wondered at. It is hardly necessary, however, to give further
illustration of it, or of the troubles incident to this long waiting-time. Enough has been
said to show Lord Cochrane's position in relation to this deplorable state of affairs, and
to exonerate him from all blame in the matter. That he should have been blamed at all is only
part of the wanton injustice that attended him nearly all through his life. He had consented,
in the autumn of 1825, to enter the service of the Greeks, on the distinct understanding that
six English-built steamships should be placed at his disposal, and to facilitate the arrangements
he did and bore far more than could have been expected of him. For the delays and disasters
that befel those arrangements he was in no way responsible: he was only thereby a very great
sufferer. But his sufferings would have been greater, and he would have been really at fault,
had he consented to go to Greece without any sort of provision, as a few rash friends and many
eager enemies desired him to do, and afterwards blamed him for not doing.

As it was, he greatly increased his difficulties by at last proceeding to Greece with the miserable
equipment provided for him. In his little schooner, the Unicorn, he left Marseilles on the
14th of February, 1827, and proceeded to St. Tropezy, where the French corvette, the Sauveur,
was being fitted out under the direction of Captain Thomas, a brave and energetic officer.
Thence he set sail, with the two vessels, on the 23rd of February. He reached Poros, and entered
upon his service in Greek waters, on the 19th of March. "He had been wandering about the Mediterranean
in a fine English yacht, purchased for him out of the proceeds of the loan, in order to accelerate
his arrival in Greece, ever since the month of June, 1826," says the ablest historian of the
Greek Revolution.[A] The preceding paragraphs will show how much truth is contained in that
sarcastic sentence.

[Footnote A: Finlay, vol. ii., p. 137.]

CHAPTER XVI.

[1826-1827.]

During the one-and-twenty weary months that elapsed between Lord Cochrane's acceptance of service
in the Greek War of Independence and his actual participation in the work, the Revolution passed
through a new and disastrous stage. In the summer of 1825, when the invitation was sent to
him, the disorganisation of the Greeks and the superior strength of the Turks, and yet more
of their Egyptian and Arabian allies under Ibrahim Pasha, were threatening to undo all that
had been achieved in the previous years. One bold stand had begun to be made, in which, throughout
nearly a whole year, the Greeks fought with unsurpassed heroism, and then the whole struggle
for liberty fell into the lawless and disordered condition which already had prevailed in many
districts, and which was then to become universal and to offer obstacles too great even for
Lord Cochrane's genius to overcome in his efforts to revive genuine patriotism and to render
thoroughly successful the cause that he had espoused.

The last great stand was at Missolonghi. Built on the edge of a marshy plain, bounded on the
north by the high hills of Zygos and protected on the south by shallow lagoons at the mouth
of the Gulf of Lepanto, and chiefly tenanted by hardy fishermen, this town had been the first
in Western Greece to take part in the Revolution. Here in June, 1821, nearly all the Moslem
residents had been slaughtered, the wealthiest and most serviceable only being spared to become
the slaves of their Christian masters. In the last two months of 1822 the Ottomans had made
a desperate attempt to win back the stronghold; but its inhabitants, led by Mavrocordatos,
who had lately come to join in the work of regeneration, had resolutely beaten off the invaders
and taken revenge upon the few Turks still resident among them. "The wife of one of the Turkish
inhabitants of Missolonghi," said an English visitor in 1824, "imploring my pity, begged me
to allow her to remain under my roof, in order to shelter her from the brutality and cruelty
of the Greeks. They had murdered all her relations. A little girl, nine years old, remained
to be the only companion of her misery."[A] Missolonghi continued to be one of the chief strongholds
of independence in continental Greece; and, the revolutionists being forced into it by the
Turks, who scoured the districts north and east of it in 1824 and 1825, it became in the latter
year the main object of attack and the scene of most desperate resistance. Here were concentrated
the chief energies of the Greek warriors and of their Moslem antagonists, and here was exhibited
the last and most heroic effort of the patriots, unaided by foreign champions of note, in their
long and hard-fought battle for freedom.

[Footnote A: Millingen, "Memoirs on the Affairs of Greece," p. 99.]

Reshid Pasha, the ablest of the Turkish generals, having advanced into the neighbourhood of
Missolonghi towards the end of April, began to besiege it in good earnest, at the head of an
army of some seven or eight thousand picked followers, on the 7th of May. While he was forming
his entrenchments and erecting his batteries, the townsmen, augmented by a number of fierce
Suliots and others, were strengthening their defences. They increased their ramparts, and organised
a garrison of four thousand soldiers and armed peasants, with a thousand citizens and boatmen
as auxiliaries. At first the tide of fortune was with them. The Turks had to defend themselves
as best they could from numerous sorties, well-planned and well-executed, in May and June;
and fresh courage came to the Greeks with the intelligence that Admiral Miaoulis was on his
way to the port, with as powerful a fleet as he could muster. While he was being expected,
however, on the 10th of July, the Turkish Capitan Pasha of Greece arrived with fifty-five vessels.
Miaoulis, with forty Greek sail, made his appearance on the 2nd of August. Thus the naval and
military forces of both sides were brought into formidable opposition.

At first the Greeks triumphed on the sea. In the night of the 3rd of August, Miaoulis, finding
that Missolonghi was being greatly troubled by the blockade established by the Turks, cleverly
placed himself to windward of the enemy's line, and at daybreak on the 4th he dispersed the
squadron nearest the shore. At noon the whole Turkish force came against him. He met them bravely,
but being able to do no more than hold his own by the ordinary method of warfare, he sent three
fireships against them in the afternoon. The Turks did not wait to be injured by them. They
fled at once, going all the way to Alexandria in search of safety. Miaoulis then lost no time
in seconding his first exploit by another. A detachment of the army of Eastern Greece, under
the brave generals Karaïskakes and Zavellas, having been sent to harass Reshid Pasha's operations,
the admiral assisted them in a successful piece of strategy. The Turks were, on the 6th of
August, attacked simultaneously by the ships and by the outlying battalion of Greeks, while
fifteen hundred of the garrison rushed out upon the invaders. Four Turkish batteries were seized,
and a great number of their defenders were killed and captured; the remainder, after tough
fighting during three hours and a half, being driven so far back that much of the besieging
work had to be done over again.

Miaoulis then went in search of the Ottoman fleet, leaving the townsmen, who were enabled,
by the raising of the blockade, to receive fresh supplies of food, ammunition, and men, to
continue their defence with a good heart. Reshid Pasha vigorously restored his siege operations,
but, attempting to force his way into the town on the 21st of September, was again seriously
repulsed. The Turks were allowed, and even tempted, to advance to a point which had been skilfully
undermined by the besieged. The mine was then fired, and a great number of Moslems were blown
into the air, while their comrades, fleeing in disorder, were further injured by a storm of
shot from the ramparts. A similar device was resorted to, with like success, on the 13th of
October. Reshid had to retire to a safe distance and there build winter quarters for his diminished
and starving army. Karaïskakes and Zavellas entered Missolonghi without hindrance, there to
concert measures which, had they been promptly adopted, might have utterly destroyed the besieging
force.

They delayed their plans too long. The Capitan Pasha having in August fled in a cowardly way
to Alexandria, there effected a junction with the Egyptians, and returned to the neighbourhood
of Missolonghi in the middle of November with a huge fleet of a hundred and thirty-five vessels,
well supplied with troops and provisions. These he landed at Patras on the 18th, just in time
to be free from any annoyance that might have been occasioned by Miaoulis, who returned to
Missolonghi on the 28th with a fleet of only thirty-three sail. He had vainly attacked a part
of the Moslem force on its way, and now, after landing some stores at Missolonghi, made several
vain attempts to overcome a force four times as strong as his own. He soon retired, intending
to return as promptly as he could collect a large fleet and bring with him further supplies
of the provisions of which the Missolonghites were beginning to be in need.

The need was greater even than he imagined. Not only had the Capitan Pasha brought temporary
assistance, in men and food, to the besieging force. Yet greater assistance soon came in the
shape of an Egyptian army, led by Ibrahim Pasha himself. An overwhelming power was thus organized
during the last weeks of 1825, and the defenders of Missolonghi were left to succumb to it,
almost unaided. Their previous successes had induced the Greeks of other districts to believe
that they could continue their defence alone, and almost the only relief obtained by them was
from the Zantiots, who had all along been zealous in the despatch of money and provisions,
and from Miaoulis and the small fleet and equipment that he was able to collect from the islands
of the Archipelago. Miaoulis returned in January, 1826, and did much injury to the Turkish
and Egyptian vessels. But he could offer no hindrance to the action of the Turks and Egyptians
upon land. The rainy months of December and January, in which no important attack could be
entered upon, were spent by Ibrahim and his companions in preparation for future work. The
invaders were now well provided with every requisite. The besieged were in want of nearly everything.
"Invested for ten months," says the contemporary historian, "frequently on the verge of starvation,
thinned by fatigue, watching, and wounds, they had already buried fifteen hundred soldiers.
The town was in ruins, and they lived amongst the mire and water of their ditches, exposed
to the inclemency of a rigorous season, without shoes and in tattered clothing. As far as their
vision stretched over the waves they beheld only Turkish flags. The plain was studded with
Mussulman tents and standards; and the gradual appearance of new batteries more skilfully disposed,
the field days of the Arabs, and the noise of saws and hammers, gave fearful warning. Yet these
gallant Acarnanians, Etolians, and Epirots never flinched for an instant."[A]

[Footnote A: Gordon, vol. ii., p. 253.]

On the 13th of January, Ibrahim Pasha sent to say that he was willing to treat with them for
an honourable surrender if they would convey their terms by deputies who could speak Albanian,
Turkish, and French. "We are illiterate, and do not understand so many languages," was their
blunt reply; "pashas we do not recognize; but we know how to handle the sword and gun."[A]

[Footnote A: Ibid.]

Sword and gun were handled with desperate prowess during February and March and the early part
of April. In April, offers of capitulation were renewed by Ibrahim, and more disinterested
attempts to avert the worst calamity were made by Sir Frederick Adam, the Lord High Commissioner
of the Ionian Islands. Both proposals were stoutly rejected. The Missolonghiotes declared that
they would defend their town to the last, and trust only in God and in their own strong arms.
But on the 1st of April the last scanty distribution of public rations was exhausted. For three
weeks the inhabitants subsisted upon nothing but cats, rats, hides, seaweed, and whatever other
refuse and vermin they could collect. At length, on the 22nd of April, finding it impossible
to hold out for a day longer, they resolved to evacuate the town in a body, and, cutting their
way through the enemy, to try to join Karaïskakes and his small force, who, hiding among the
mountain fastnesses, were vainly seeking for some way of assisting them, and to whom they now
despatched a message, asking them to advance and help to clear a passage for their flight.

After sunset four bridges of planks were secretly laid over the outer ditch of Missolonghi,
and the inhabitants were ordered to prepare to leave in two hours. Many--about two thousand--lost
heart at last; some betaking themselves to the powder stores, there, when all hope was over,
to end their lives by easier death than the enemy might allow them; others, crouching in corners
of their homesteads, deeming it better to be murdered there than in the open country. The rest
obeyed the orders of the generals. All the women dressed themselves as men, with swords or
daggers at their waists. Every child who could hold a weapon had one placed in his hand. There
was bitter leave-taking, and desperate words of encouragement passed from one to another, as
the patriots were marshalled in the order of their departure;--three thousand fighting men
to open a passage and four thousand women and children to follow;--the whole being divided
into three separate parties. At length all was ready, and the first party silently passed out
of the town and advanced to the bridges. To their amazement, they no sooner appeared than they
were met by volley after volley of Turkish fire. A traitor had revealed their plan, and every
measure had been taken for their destruction. Some rushed on in despite; others hurried back,
to fall into confusion, which it was hard indeed to overcome. They felt, however, that this
deadly chance was their only chance of life, and they pressed on through the fire, and the
swords of their foes, and by the sheer heroism of despair forced a passage to the mountains.
Karaiskakes's aid--apparently through no fault of his--was only obtained when the worst dangers
had been surmounted or succumbed to. Of the nine thousand persons who were in Missolonghi on
the day of the evacuation, four thousand were killed in the town or on the way out of it. Only
thirteen hundred men and two hundred women and children lived to reach Salona after more than
a week of wandering and hiding among the mountains.

The long siege of Missolonghi illustrates all the best and some of the worst features of the
Greek Revolution. In it there was patriotism worthy, in its bursts of splendour, of the nation
that claimed descent from the heroes of Plataea and Thermopylae. But the patriotism was often
fitful in its working, and oftener wholly wanting. The Greeks could not shake off the pernicious
influences that sprang, almost necessarily, from their long centuries of thraldom. Heroism
was closely linked with treachery and meanness. The worthiest and most disinterested energy
was intimately associated with ignorance as to the right methods of action, and with wilful
action in wrong ways. The elements of weakness that had been apparent from the first were more
and more developed as the painful struggle reached its termination. It seems as if, in spite
of Reshid Pasha and Ibrahim and their fierce armies, it would have been easy for Missolonghi
and its brave defenders to have been saved. But rival ambitions and paltry jealousies divided
the leaders of the Revolution. They were quarrelling while the power that each one coveted
for himself was, step by step, being wrested from them all; and when they tried to do well
their want of discipline often rendered their efforts of small avail. No adequate attempt was
made to relieve Missolonghi by land, and the brave conduct of Miaoulis on the sea was almost
neutralized by the disorganization of his crews and the selfish policy of the islanders who
sent him out.

"With respect to the Greek army," wrote General Ponsonby to the Duke of Wellington, from Corfu,
on the 15th of June, "it is, generally speaking, a mob; and a chief can only calculate upon
keeping it together as long as he has provisions to give it or the prospect of plunder without
danger. There is nothing to oppose the Egyptian army but a mob kept together by the small sums
sent by the different committees in foreign countries. The Greeks have a great horror of the
bayonet, which, however, they have never seen near, except at Missolonghi. The Suliots, who
chiefly formed the garrison of that place, are fine men, and certainly fought with great courage.
Much has been said of naval actions, but there is no truth in any of the accounts. The Greeks
are better sailors than the Turks, but no action has been fought since the beginning of the
war, if it is understood by action that there is risk and loss on both sides. The Greeks, however,
have done wonders with their fleet. They have destroyed many large ships, and, in the month
of February last, with twenty-three brigs, they out-manoeuvred the Turkish fleet of sixty sail,
and threw provisions into Missolonghi. This, though done by seamanship, and not fighting, was
called a great battle and a great victory. I was within two miles of the fleets, and the cannonade
for six hours was tremendous; but when I spoke to Miaoulis the following morning he told me
he had not lost a man in his fleet."[A]

[Footnote A: "Despatches of the Duke of Wellington," vol. iii., p. 338.]

During the summer and winter following the fall of Missolonghi a series of small disasters,
the aggregate of which was by no means small, befel the Greeks. It was the opinion of all parties,
and admitted even by jealous rivals, that the tottering cause of independence was only sustained
by the constant and eager expectation of the arrival of the powerful fleet which was supposed
to be on its way to the Archipelago, under the able leadership of Lord Cochrane, the world-famous
champion of Chilian and Brazilian freedom.

His approach was hardly more a cause of hope to the Greeks than a subject of fear to the Turks.
No sooner was it publicly known that he had espoused the cause of the insurgents than angry
complaints were made by the Turkish Government to the British ministry, and Mr. Canning, then
Foreign Secretary, had more than once to avow that the authorities in England knew nothing
of his movements, and had done all that the law rendered possible to restrain him. He had also
to promise that everything legal should be done to keep him in check on his arrival in Greek
waters. "We have heard," he wrote in August to his cousin, Mr. Stratford Canning, afterwards
Lord Stratford de Redcliffe, the ambassador at Constantinople, "that Lord Cochrane is gone
to the Mediterranean; whether it be really so, we know not." He then proceeded to define the
bearing of English and international law in the existing circumstances. "Lord Cochrane may
enter the Greek service, and continue therein. He may even, as a Greek commander, institute
(as he did in Brazil) blockades which British officers will respect, and exercise the belligerent
rights of search on British merchant-ships, without exposing himself to any other penalty than
that which the law will inflict upon him if ever hereafter he shall again bring himself within
its reach, and be duly convicted of the offence for the punishment of which that law was enacted.
If, indeed, he should do any of such things without a commission he would become a pirate,
and liable to the summary justice to which, without reference to the municipal laws of his
country, he would, as an enemy of the human race, be liable; and liable just as much from the
officers of any other country as of his own."[A]

[Footnote A: "Despatches of the Duke of Wellington," vol. iii., pp. 357, 358.]

While that correspondence was going on, Lord Cochrane, as we have seen, was battling with a
long series of delays, as irksome to himself as they were unfortunate to the Greeks. It was
not till the 14th of September, about eight months after the time fixed for the arrival of
his whole fleet, that the first instalment of it, the Perseverance, which he had sent on as
soon as it was completed, with Captain Abney Hastings as its commander, entered the harbour
of Nauplia. On the 26th of October, Captain Hastings wrote a letter, giving curious evidence
of the estimate formed by him of the Greek character. It was left at Nauplia and addressed
to "the commander of the first American or English vessel that arrives in Greece to join the
Greeks." "An apprenticeship in Greece tolerably long," he wrote, "has taught me the risks to
which anybody newly arrived, and possessed of some place and power, is exposed. They know me,
and they also know that I know them; yet they have not ceased, and never will cease, intriguing
to get this vessel out of my hands and into their own, which would be tantamount to ruining
her. Knowing all this, I take the liberty of leaving this letter, to be delivered to the first
officer that arrives in Greece in the command of a vessel, to caution him not to receive on
board his vessel any Greek captain. They will endeavour, under various pretences, to introduce
themselves on board, and when once they have got a footing, they will gradually encroach until
they feel themselves strong enough to turn out the original commander. The presence of such
men can only be attended with inconvenience, for, if you are obliged to take a certain number
of Greek sailors, these captains will render subordination among them impossible by their own
irregularity and bad example. If you want seamen, take some from Hydra, Spetzas, Kranidi, or
Poros. The Psarians may be trusted in very small numbers. Take a few men from one, a few from
another island, and thus you will be best enabled to establish some kind of discipline. Take
a good number of marines. Choose them from the peasantry and foreign Greeks, and you may make
something of them. You must see, sir, that, in this my advice to the first officer arriving
in command of a vessel, I can have no interest any further than inasmuch as I wish well to
the Greek cause, and therefore do not wish to see a force that can be of great service rendered
ineffective by falling into the hands of people totally incapable and unwilling to adopt a
single right measure. In Greece there cannot be any military operations except such as are
carried on by foreigners in their service."

That letter was written after Captain Hastings had endured a month's annoyance from the trouble
brought upon him by the Hydriot officers and seamen who tried to oust him from the command
of his fine vessel, whose name was now changed from the Perseverance to the Karteria. Unfortunately,
his letter, left at Nauplia, did not reach the captain of the next reinforcement, the American
frigate, which arrived at Egina on the 8th of December. "She was one of the finest ships in
the world," we are told, "carrying sixty-four guns--long 32-pounders on the main, and 42-pound
carronades on the upper deck--and was filled with flour, ammunition, medicines, and marine
stores for eighteen months' consumption. The Greeks contemplated her with delight, but, upon
the departure of the American officers and seamen who navigated her out, they discovered that
she would be more embarrassing than useful to them. To manage vessels of such a size was beyond
their capacity, and the mutual jealousy of the islanders suggested to the Government the absurd
notion of putting the frigate into commission, Hydra, Spetzas, and the Psarian community being
desired to send quotas of men. This plan was now found to be impracticable. Repeated fights
occurred on board. The ship was twice in danger of being wrecked at Egina, and at Poros she
actually drifted ashore, luckily on soft mud. She was finally given up to Miaoulis, with a
Hydriot crew of his own selection."[A]

[Footnote A: Gordon, vol. ii., p. 326.]

This frigate, christened the Hellas, came too late to be of much service to Admiral Miaoulis,
before the arrival of Lord Cochrane. In the previous summer and autumn, however, he had been
harassing and keeping at bay the Turkish and Egyptian fleets--work in which Hastings was in
time to assist him.

