 But, as if the cowardice
of their countrymen had stung them into a determination to show, at all hazards, that they,
at least, were made of very different stuff, they not only resisted the attack of the enemy,
but carried the bayonet into his ranks. The combatants rushed and reeled together with locked
weapons. But this struggle could not last. The conflict was prolonged only until the British
cavalry could return from pursuing the fugitives. Their sabres gave the finishing stroke to
the affair. De Kalb had fallen under eleven wounds, and nothing remained, but flight, to save
this gallant body from the mortification of surrender on the field of battle. It was no consolation
to Gates, while fleeing to North Carolina, to be overtaken by messengers from Sumter, announcing
a gallant achievement of that brave partisan, by which forty wagons of booty and nearly three
hundred prisoners had fallen into his hands. Such tidings only mocked his own disaster. He
could only, in reply, relate his own irretrievable defeat, point to his fugitives, and counsel
Sumter to immediate retreat from his triumphant and now returning enemy. Unhappily, ignorant
of Gates' disaster, and of a bold, incautious temper, Sumter was approaching, rather than hastening
from, danger. His flight, when he did retire, was not sufficiently rapid, nor sufficiently
prudent. He was one of those men who too quickly feel themselves secure. He was surprised by
Tarleton, but two days after, his troops utterly dispersed, he, too, a fugitive like Gates,
with all the fruits of his late victory taken from his grasp. In almost every instance where
the Americans suffered defeat, the misfortune was due to a want of proper caution--an unobservance
of some of the simplest rules of military prudence. In a brilliant sortie, a manful charge,
a sudden onslaught, no troops could have surpassed them--nay, we find as many examples of the
sternest powers of human endurance, under the severest trials of firmness, in their military
history, as in that of any other people. But to secure what they had won--to be consistently
firm--always on their guard and beyond surprise,--were lessons which they were slow to acquire--which
they learned at last only under the heaviest penalties of blood. Marion was one of the few
Captains of American militia, that never suffered himself to be taken napping.

The people of Williamsburg, by whom Marion was summoned from the camp of Gates, were sprung
generally from Irish parentage. They inherited, in common with all the descendants of the Irish
in America, a hearty detestation of the English name and authority. This feeling rendered them
excellent patriots and daring soldiers, wherever the British Lion was the object of hostility.
Those of whom we are now to speak, the people of Williamsburg, were men generally of fearless
courage, powerful frame, well-strung nerves, and an audacious gallantry that led them to delight
in dangers, even where the immediate objects by no means justified the risk. They felt that
"rapture of the strife", in which the Goth exulted. In addition to these natural endowments
for a brave soldiery, they were good riders and famous marksmen--hunters, that knew the woods
almost as well by night as by day--could wind about and through the camp of an enemy, as free
from suspicion as the velvet-footed squirrel, who, from the lateral branches of the pine, looks
over their encampment. They possessed resources of knowledge and ingenuity, while in swamp
and thicket, not merely to avoid the danger, but, in not unfrequent instances, to convert it
to their own advantage. Nothing but the training and direction of such a mind as Marion's was
needed to make, of these men, the most efficient of all partisan soldiery. The formation of
the brigade of which he now prepared to take command, has a history of its own which is worth
telling. The fame which it subsequently acquired in connection with its leader's name, and
which the local traditions will not willingly let die, will justify us in the narration. Some
few preliminary facts are necessary.

The fall of Charleston, and the dispersion or butchery of those parties which had kept the
field after that event, necessarily depressed the spirits and discouraged the attempt of the
scattered patriots who still yearned to oppose the invaders. The captivity of many of the leaders
to whom they were accustomed to look for counsel and direction, and the flight of others, served
still further to dissipate any hopes or purposes which they might have had of concentration.
Thousands fled to the North, and embodied themselves under Washington and other American Generals,
despairing of the cause at home. Everything appeared to be lost, and a timely proclamation
of Sir Henry Clinton, a few days after the surrender of Charleston, tended yet more to subdue
the spirit of resistance. The proclamation proffered "pardon to the inhabitants" with some
few exceptions, "for their past treasonable offences, and a reinstatement in their rights and
immunities heretofore enjoyed, exempt from taxation, except by their own legislature." This
specious offer, made at a moment when his power was at its height, everywhere unquestioned
and unopposed, indicated a degree of magnanimity, which in the case of those thousands in every
such contest, who love repose better than virtue, was everywhere calculated to disarm the inhabitants.
To many indeed it seemed to promise all for which they had been contending. It offered security
from further injury, protection against the Tories who were using the authority of the British
for their own purposes of plunder and revenge, a respite from their calamities, and a restoration
of all their rights. With the immunities thus proffered, with the further conviction that further
struggle against British power was hopeless, with the assurance, indeed, which was industriously
conveyed to them from all quarters, that Congress, not able to assist, had resolved upon yielding
the provinces of South Carolina and Georgia to the enemy, as considerations for the independence
of the other colonies--they accepted the terms thus offered them by the British commander,
and, in great numbers, signed declarations of allegiance, received protection as subjects of
the crown, or, as prisoners of war, were paroled to their plantations. Could the British have
persevered in this policy, had they kept faith with the inhabitants, they might much longer
have held possession of the country. But, either they were not sincere in their first professions,
or their subsequent necessities compelled them to adopt a less rational policy. Twenty days
had not elapsed from the publication of the first proclamation when it was followed by another,
which so entirely qualified and impaired the character of the former, as to revolt the people
whom it had invited, and to impress them with the conviction that they had been imposed upon--that
the first measure was a mere decoy,--a trap involving their pledges, yet withholding the very
securities for which they had been given. This second proclamation, premising that it was necessary
for all good citizens to uphold his Majesty's Government, proceeded to discharge from protection
and parole all persons to whom such papers had been accorded. All persons not absolutely prisoners
of war, taken in arms, were to be reinstated in their former positions as citizens--but, as
citizens of the British Empire. In this relation the farther inferences were inevitable. They
were now actually to support his Majesty's Government. The proclamation ended with the usual
penalties--all who neglected to return to their allegiance were to be treated as rebels.

The policy thus adopted by the British commander soon made them so. The object of the Carolinians,
in taking protections and paroles, was to avoid further warfare. The second proclamation of
the British General required them to take up arms for his Majesty, and against their countrymen.
This was a hopeful plan by which to fill the British regiments, to save farther importations
of Hessians, farther cost of mercenaries, and, as in the case of the Aborigines, to employ
the Anglo-American race against one another. The loyalists of the South were to be used against
the patriots of the North, as the loyalists of the latter region had been employed to put down
the liberties of the former. It was a short and ingenious process for finishing the rebellion;
and, could it have entirely succeeded, as in part it did, it would have entitled Sir Henry
Clinton to very far superior laurels, as a civilian, than he ever won as a soldier. The value
of the Americans, as soldiers, was very well known to the British General. Some of the most
sanguinary battles of the Revolution were those in which the combatants on both sides were
chiefly natives of the soil, upon which a portion of them but too freely shed their blood in
a sincere desire to bolster up that foreign tyranny that mocked the generous valor which it
employed.

