SELECT SPEECHES OF DANIEL WEBSTER

1817-1845

WITH PREFACE, INTRODUCTION, AND NOTES BY

A. J. GEORGE, A.M.

Instructor in Rhetoric and English Literature in the Newton, Mass., High School

            "The front of Jove himself;
  An eye like Mars to threaten and command;
  A combination and a form indeed,
  Where every god did seem to set his seal,
  To give the world assurance of a man"

Boston, U.S.A. D.C. Heath & Co., Publishers 1903

TO THE HON. GEORGE F. HOAR, LL.D. A WORTHY SUCCESSOR OF DANIEL WEBSTER IN THE SENATE OF THE
UNITED STATES

Blest Statesman He, whose Mind's unselfish will Leaves him at ease among grand thoughts: whose
eye Sees that, apart from magnanimity, Wisdom exists not; nor the humbler skill Of Prudence,
disentangling good and ill With patient care. What tho' assaults run high, They daunt not him
who holds his ministry, Resolute, at all hazards, to fulfil Its duties; prompt to move, but
firm to wait; Knowing, things rashly sought are rarely found; That, for the functions of an
ancient State-- Strong by her charters, free because imbound, Servant of Providence, not slave
of Fate-- Perilous is sweeping change, all chance unsound.

Preface.

Burke and Webster are models in the forensic literature of our own language as truly as are
Demosthenes and Cicero in the language of the ancient classics. Each has distinct and inimitable
characteristics which give force and beauty to his work. The study of each should be ordered
in such a way as to put one in touch with those qualities of mind and heart, of intellectual
and moral manhood, by which each became a leader in political philosophy and a model in literary
style. One who studies such authors in order to formulate a historical or a personal estimate
merely, or to compare each as to certain externals of rhetorical form, has lost the true perspective
of literary judgment.

Reading in the school and in the home is far too often pursued with a purpose to controvert
and prove rather than to weigh and consider. Reading which does not result in enlarging, stimulating,
and refining one's nature is but a busy idleness. The schools must see to it that the desultory
and dissipating methods of reading, so prevalent in the home, are not encouraged. Pupils must
be stimulated first of all to enjoy what is beautiful in nature and in art: for here is

  "A world of ready wealth,
  Their minds and hearts to bless--
  Spontaneous wisdom breathed by health,
  Truth breathed by cheerfulness."

The wisdom of the classroom is too often "art tongue-tied by authority," and hence it is not
wisdom at all, but a sham and a pretence. Not until pupils rise to the spontaneity which betokens
a genuine love for the work in hand do they secure the richest results.

The publication of the masterpieces of the epic, the lyric, and the drama; of the novel, the
essay, and the oration, in a convenient form and at such a price as to bring them within the
reach of our schools, makes it inexcusable if pupils are allowed to be ignorant of the great
literary, ethical, and artistic impulses which have touched and quickened the life of the past.

Burke's American Orations present him at his best as a statesman, an orator, and a stylist.
When the edition of those speeches was prepared, a selection from Webster's great speeches
was contemplated as a companion volume. The present edition represents Webster in the various
and distinct fields in which his genius manifested itself so powerfully and so nobly. He is
here seen before a jury, before the Supreme Court of the United States, on a great historical
occasion, in the Senate of the United States, in a great national canvass, and as a eulogist.

Had it not been for making the volume too large for school use I should have included the famous
speech delivered in the Senate on the 7th of March, 1850. This speech has been considered by
many as the vulnus immedicabile of Mr. Webster's political life; it is certain that for it
he was most rankly abused. "Massachusetts," as Hon. John D. Long has said, "smote and broke
the heart of Webster, her idol, and then broke her own above his grave, and to-day writes his
name highest upon her roll of statesmen."

I find in this speech nothing but what is consistent with Mr. Webster's noble adherence to
the Constitution and the Union; nothing but what is consistent with the solemn duty of a great
man in a great national crisis.

In his address at Buffalo on the 22d of May, 1851, he expressed himself very freely in regard
to this speech, saying: "I felt that I had a duty to perform to my country, to my own reputation;
for I flattered myself that a service of forty years had given me some character, on which
I had a right to repose for my justification in the performance of a duty attended with some
degree of local unpopularity. I thought it was my duty to pursue this course, and I did not
care what was to be the consequence. And, Gentlemen, allow me to say here to-day, that if the
fate of John Rogers had stared me in the face, if I had seen the stake, if I had heard the
fagots already crackling, by the blessing of Almighty God I would have gone on and discharged
the duty which I thought my country called upon me to perform."

Does this seem the language of one who had abandoned his post and was merely "bidding for the
Presidency"?

The address of Hon. Rufus Choate, before the students of Dartmouth College, commemorative of
Daniel Webster, has a remark on this subject so just that I cannot refrain from quoting it.
He says: "Until the accuser who charges Mr. Webster with having 'sinned against his conscience'
will assert that the conscience of a public man may not, must not, be instructed by profound
knowledge of the vast subject-matter with which public life is conversant, and will assert
that he is certain that the consummate science of our great statesman was felt by himself to
prescribe to his morality another conduct than that which he adopted, and that he thus consciously
outraged that 'sense of duty which pursues us ever,'--is he not inexcusable, whoever he is,
that so judges another?"

At the meeting held in Faneuil Hall, Oct. 27, 1852, commemorative of Mr. Webster's life and
work, Mr. Edward Everett said: "Whoever, in after time, shall write the history of the United
States for the last forty years will write the life of Daniel Webster; and whoever writes the
life of Daniel Webster as it ought to be written will write the history of the Union from the
time he took a leading part in its concerns." Mr. Choate, at a meeting of the Supreme Court
of Massachusetts, Oct. 25, 1852, said: "Happier than the younger Pliny, happier than Cicero,
he has found his historian, unsolicited, in his lifetime, and his countrymen have him all by
heart."

If this volume shall aid in bringing the young of this generation "to have him all by heart,"
to ascend his imaginative heights and sit under the shadow of his profound reflections on that
which is fundamental in civil and religious liberty, its purpose will be accomplished.

With few exceptions these selections are given entire. Whenever they have been abridged, the
continuity of the discourse has not been impaired.

In the matter of annotation the purpose has been to furnish sufficient aid to the general reader,
and at the same time to indicate to the special student lines along which he may study the
speeches.

In Edward Everett's Memoir, found in the first volume of Mr. Webster's works; in the life of
Mr. Webster by George Tichnor Curtis, and in Henry Cabot Lodge's Daniel Webster, in the American
Statesman Series, the student has exhaustive, scholarly, and judicious estimates of Mr. Webster's
work.

I am indebted to the Hon. George F. Hoar and the Hon. Edward J. Phelps for assistance in the
task of selecting representative speeches; and to the former for permission to associate his
name with this edition of Mr. Webster's work.

A. J. G.

Brookline, November, 1892.

Introduction.

Mr. Webster approaches as nearly to the beau ideal of a republican Senator as any man that
I have ever seen in the course of my life; worthy of Rome or Venice rather than of our noisy
and wrangling generation.-- Hallam.

Coleridge used to say that he had seldom known or heard of any great man who had not much of
the woman in him. Even so the large intellect of Daniel Webster seemed to be coupled with all
softer feelings; and his countenance and bearing, at the very first, impressed me with this.
A commanding brow, thoughtful eyes, and a mouth that seemed to respond to all humanities. He
deserves his fame, I am sure.--John Kenyon.

He is a magnificent specimen. You might say to all the world, "This is our Yankee Englishman;
such limbs we make in Yankee-land!" As a parliamentary Hercules one would incline to back him
at first sight against all the extant world. The tanned complexion; that amorphous craglike
face; the dull black eyes under the precipice of brows, like dull anthracite furnaces needing
only to be blown; the mastiff mouth, accurately closed; I have not traced so much of silent
Berserkir rage that I remember of in any other man.--Thomas Carlyle.

When the historian shall look back upon the first century of the American Republic, the two
names that will shine with most unfading lustre and the serenest glory, high above all others,
are Washington and Webster.-- Professor Felton.

Consider the remarkable phenomenon of excellence in three unkindred, one might have thought
incompatible, forms of public speech,--that of the forum, with its double audience of bench
and jury, of the halls of legislation, and of the most thronged and tumultuous assemblies of
the people. Consider, further, that this multiform eloquence, exactly as his words fell, became
at once so much accession to permanent literature in the strictest sense,--solid, attractive,
rich,--and ask how often in the history of public life such a thing has been exemplified.--Rufus
Choate.

The noblest monument to Daniel Webster is in his works. As a repository of political truth
and practical wisdom, applied to the affairs of government, I know not where we shall find
their equal. The works of Burke naturally suggest themselves to the mind, as the only writings
in our language that can sustain the comparison.--Edward Everett.

He writes like a man who is thinking of his subject, and not of his style, and thus he wastes
no time upon the mere garb of his thoughts. His style is Doric, not Corinthian. His sentences
are like shafts hewn from the granite of his own hills,--simple, massive, strong. We may apply
to him what Quinctilian says of Cicero, that a relish for his writings is itself a mark of
good taste.--George S. Hillard.

He taught the people of the United States, in the simplicity of common understanding, the principles
of the Constitution and government of the country, and he wrought for them, in a style of matchless
strength and beauty, the literature of statesmanship. He made his language the very household
words of a nation. They are the library of the people. They are the school-book of the citizen.--John
D. Long.

Take him for all in all, he was not only the greatest orator this country has ever known, but
in the history of eloquence his name will stand with those of Demosthenes and Cicero, Chatham
and Burke.--Henry Cabot Lodge.

It may be said that the style of Webster is pre-eminently distinguished by manliness. The intellect
and moral manliness of Webster underlies all his great orations and speeches; and this plain
force of manhood, this sturdy grapple with every question that comes before his understanding
for settlement, leads him to reject all the meretricious aids and ornaments of mere rhetoric,
and is prominent, among the many exceptional qualities of his large nature, which have given
him a high position among the prose- writers of his country as a consummate master of English
style.--Edwin P. Whipple.

His broad, wise statesmanship is to be the ample and refreshing shade, his character the bright
and breezy presence, in which all the members of this great and illustrious Republic may meet
and sit down and feast together.-- H. N. Hudson.

Contents.

Defence of the Kennistons The Dartmouth College Case First Settlement of New England The Bunker
Hill Monument The Reply to Hayne The Murder of Captain Joseph White The Constitution Not a
Compact Between Sovereign States Speech at Saratoga Eulogy on Mr. Justice Story Biographical Notes

Defence of the Kennistons.

Gentlemen of the Jury,--It is true that the offence charged in the indictment in this case
is not capital; but perhaps this can hardly be considered as favorable to the defendants. To
those who are guilty, and without hope of escape, no doubt the lightness of the penalty of
transgression gives consolation. But if the defendants are innocent, it is more natural for
them to be thinking upon what they have lost by that alteration of the law which has left highway
robbery no longer capital, than upon what the guilty might gain by it. They have lost those
great privileges in their trial, which the law allows, in capital cases, for the protection
of innocence against unfounded accusation. They have lost the right of being previously furnished
with a copy of the indictment, and a list of the government witnesses. They have lost the right
of peremptory challenge; and, notwithstanding the prejudices which they know have been excited
against them, they must show legal cause of challenge, in each individual case, or else take
the jury as they find it. They have lost the benefit of assignment of counsel by the court.
They have lost the benefit of the Commonwealth's process to bring in witnesses in their behalf.
When to these circumstances it is added that they are strangers, almost wholly without friends,
and without the means for preparing their defence, it is evident they must take their trial
under great disadvantages.

But without dwelling on these considerations, I proceed, Gentlemen of the Jury, to ask your
attention to those circumstances which cannot but cast doubts on the story of the prosecutor.

In the first place, it is impossible to believe that a robbery of this sort could have been
committed by three or four men without previous arrangement and concert, and of course without
the knowledge of the fact that Goodridge would be there, and that he had money. They did not
go on the highway, in such a place, in a cold December's night, for the general purpose of
attacking the first passenger, running the chance of his being somebody who had money. It is
not easy to believe that a gang of robbers existed, that they acted systematically, communicating
intelligence to one another, and meeting and dispersing as occasion required, and that this
gang had their head-quarters in such a place as Newburyport. No town is more distinguished
for the general correctness of the habits of its citizens; and it is of such a size that every
man in it may be known to all the rest. The pursuits, occupations, and habits of every person
within it are within the observation of his neighbors. A suspicious stranger would be instantly
observed, and all his movements could be easily traced. This is not the place to be the general
rendezvous of a gang of robbers. Offenders of this sort hang on the skirts of large towns.
From the commission of their crimes they hasten into the crowd, and hide themselves in the
populousness of great cities. If it be wholly improbable that a gang existed in such a place
for the purpose of general plunder, the next inquiry is, Is there any reason to think that
there was a special or particular combination, for the single purpose of robbing the prosecutor?
Now it is material to observe, that not only is there no evidence of any such combination,
but also, that circumstances existed which render it next to impossible that the defendants
could have been parties to such a combination, or even that they could have any knowledge of
the existence of any such man as Goodridge, or that any person, with money, was expected to
come from the eastward, and to be near Essex Bridge, at or about nine o'clock, the evening
when the robbery is said to have been committed.

One of the defendants had been for some weeks in Newburyport, the other passed the bridge from
New Hampshire at twelve o'clock on the 19th of December, 1816. At this time, Goodridge had
not yet arrived at Exeter, twelve or fourteen miles from the bridge. How, then, could either
of the defendants know that he was coming? Besides, he says that nobody, as far as he is aware,
knew on the road that he had money, and nothing happened till he reached Exeter, according
to his account, from which it might be conjectured that such was the case. Here, as he relates
it, it became known that he had pistols; and he must wish you to infer that the plan to rob
him was laid here, at Exeter, by some of the persons who inferred that he had money from his
being armed. Who were these persons? Certainly not the defendants, or either of them. Certainly
not Taber. Certainly not Jackman. Were they persons of suspicious characters? Was he in a house
of a suspicious character? On this point he gives us no information. He has either not taken
the pains to inquire, or he chooses not to communicate the result of his inquiries. Yet nothing
could be more important, since he seems compelled to lay the scene of the plot against him
at Exeter, than to know who the persons were that he saw, or who saw him, at that place. On
the face of the facts now proved, nothing could be more improbable than that the plan of robbery
was concerted at Exeter. If so, why should those who concerted it send forward to Newburyport
to engage the defendants, especially as they did not know that they were there? What should
induce any persons so suddenly to apply to the defendants to assist in a robbery? There was
nothing in their personal character or previous history that should induce this.

Nor was there time for all this. If the prosecutor had not lingered on the road, for reasons
not yet discovered, he must have been in Newburyport long before the time at which he states
the robbery to have been committed. How, then, could any one expect to leave Exeter, come to
Newburyport, fifteen miles, there look out for and find out assistants for a highway robbery,
and get back two miles to a convenient place for the commission of the crime? That any body
should have undertaken to act thus is wholly improbable; and, in point of fact, there is not
the least proof of any body's travelling, that afternoon, from Exeter to Newburyport, or of
any person who was at the tavern at Exeter having left it that afternoon. In all probability,
nothing of this sort could have taken place without being capable of detection and proof. In
every particular, the prosecutor has wholly failed to show the least probability of a plan
to rob him having been laid at Exeter.

But how comes it that Goodridge was near or quite four hours and a half in travelling a distance
which might have been travelled in two hours or two hours and a half. He says he missed his
way, and went the Salisbury road. But some of the jury know that this could not have delayed
him more than five or ten minutes. He ought to be able to give some better account of this delay.

Failing, as he seems to do, to create any belief that a plan to rob him was arranged at Exeter,
the prosecutor goes back to Alfred, and says he saw there a man whom Taber resembles. But Taber
is proved to have been at that time, and at the time of the robbery, in Boston. This is proved
beyond question. It is so certain, that the Solicitor-General has nol prossed the indictment
against him.

There is an end, then, of all pretence of the adoption of a scheme of robbery at Alfred. This
leaves the prosecutor altogether unable to point out any manner in which it should become known
that he had money, or in which a design to rob him should originate.

It is next to be considered whether the prosecutor's story is either natural or consistent.
But, on the threshold of the inquiry, every one puts the question, What motive had the prosecutor
to be guilty of the abominable conduct of feigning a robbery? It is difficult to assign motives.
The jury do not know enough of his character or circumstances. Such things have happened, and
may happen again. Suppose he owed money in Boston, and had it not to pay? Who knows how high
he might estimate the value of a plausible apology? Some men have also a whimsical ambition
of distinction. There is no end to the variety of modes in which human vanity exhibits itself.
A story of this nature excites the public sympathy. It attracts general attention. It causes
the name of the prosecutor to be celebrated as a man who has been attacked, and, after a manly
resistance, overcome by robbers, and who has renewed his resistance as soon as returning life
and sensation enabled him, and, after a second conflict, has been quite subdued, beaten and
bruised out of all sense and sensation, and finally left for dead on the field. It is not easy
to say how far such motives, trifling and ridiculous as most men would think them, might influence
the prosecutor, when connected with any expectation of favor or indulgence, if he wanted such,
from his creditors. It is to be remembered that he probably did not see all the consequences
of his conduct, if his robbery be a pretence. He might not intend to prosecute any body. But
he probably found, and indeed there is evidence to show, that it was necessary for him to do
something to find out the authors of the alleged robbery. He manifested no particular zeal
on this subject. He was in no haste. He appears rather to have been pressed by others to do
that which, if he had really been robbed, we should suppose he would have been most earnest
to do, the earliest moment.

But could he so seriously wound himself? Could he or would he shoot a pistol-bullet through
his hand, in order to render the robbery probable, and to obtain belief in his story? All exhibitions
are subject to accidents. Whether they are serious or farcical, they may, in some particulars,
not proceed exactly as they are designed to do. If we knew that this shot through the hand,
if made by himself, must have been intentionally made by himself, it would be a circumstance
of greater weight. The bullet went through the sleeve of his coat. He might have intended it
should go through nothing else. It is quite certain he did not receive the wound in the way
he described. He says he was pulling or thrusting aside the robber's pistol, and while his
hand was on it, it was fired, and the contents passed through his hand. This could not have
been so, because no part of the contents went through the hand, except the ball. There was
powder on the sleeve of his coat, and from the appearance one would think the pistol to have
been three or four feet from the hand when fired. The fact of the pistol-bullet being fired
through the hand, is doubtless a circumstance of importance. It may not be easy to account
for it; but it is to be weighed with other circumstances.

It is most extraordinary, that, in the whole case, the prosecutor should prove hardly any fact
in any way but by his own oath. He chooses to trust every thing on his own credit with the
jury. Had he the money with him which he mentions? If so, his clerks or persons connected with
him in business must have known it; yet no witness is produced. Nothing can be more important
than to prove that he had the money. Yet he does not prove it. Why should he leave this essential
fact without further support? He is not surprised with this defence, he knew what it would
be. He knew that nothing could be more important than to prove that, in truth, he did possess
the money which he says he lost; yet he does not prove it. All that he saw, and all that he
did, and everything that occurred to him until the alleged robbery, rests solely on his own
credit. He does not see fit to corroborate any fact by the testimony of any witness. So he
went to New York to arrest Jackman. He did arrest him. He swears positively that he found in
his possession papers which he lost at the time of the robbery; yet he neither produces the
papers themselves, nor the persons who assisted in the search.

In like manner, he represents his intercourse with Taber at Boston. Taber, he says, made certain
confessions. They made a bargain for a disclosure or confession on one side, and a reward on
the other. But no one heard these confessions except Goodridge himself. Taber now confronts
him, and pronounces this part of his story to be wholly false; and there is nobody who can
support the prosecutor.

A jury cannot too seriously reflect on this part of the case. There are many most important
allegations of fact, which, if true, could easily be shown by other witnesses, and yet are
not so shown.

How came Mr. Goodridge to set out from Bangor, armed in this formal and formidable manner?
How came he to be so apprehensive of a robbery? The reason he gives is completely ridiculous.
As the foundation of his alarm, he tells a story of a robbery which he had heard of, but which,
as far as appears, no one else ever heard of; and the story itself is so perfectly absurd,
it is difficult to resist the belief that it was the product of his imagination at the moment.
He seems to have been a little too confident that an attempt would be made to rob him. The
manner in which he carried his money, as he says, indicated a strong expectation of this sort.
His gold he wrapped in a cambric cloth, put it into a shot bag, and then into a portmanteau.
One parcel of bills, of a hundred dollars in amount, he put into his pocket-book; another,
of somewhat more than a thousand dollars, he carried next his person, underneath all his clothes.
Having disposed of his money in this way, and armed himself with two good pistols, he set out
from Bangor. The jury will judge whether this extraordinary care of his money, and this formal
arming of himself to defend it, are not circumstances of a very suspicious character.

He stated that he did not travel in the night; that he would not so much expose himself to
robbers. He said that, when he came near Alfred, he did not go into the village, but stopped
a few miles short, because night was coming on, and he would not trust himself and his money
out at night. He represents himself to have observed this rule constantly and invariably until
he got to Exeter. Yet, when the time came for the robbery, he was found out at night. He left
Exeter about sunset, intending to go to Newburyport, fifteen miles distant, that evening. When
he is asked how this should happen, he says he had no fear of robbers after he left the District
of Maine. He thought himself quite safe when he arrived at Exeter. Yet he told the jury, that
at Exeter he thought it necessary to load his pistol afresh. He asked for a private room at
the inn. He told the persons in attendance that he wished such a room for the purpose of changing
his clothes. He charged them not to suffer him to be interrupted. But he now testifies that
his object was not to change his dress, but to put new loading into his pistols. What sort
of a story is this?

He says he now felt himself out of all danger from robbers, and was therefore willing to travel
at night. At the same time, he thought himself in very great danger from robbers, and therefore
took the utmost pains to keep his pistols well loaded and in good order. To account for the
pains he took about loading his pistols at Exeter, he says it was his invariable practice,
every day after he left Bangor, to discharge and load again one or both of his pistols; that
he never missed doing this; that he avoided doing it at the inns, lest he should create suspicion,
but that he did it, while alone, on the road, every day.

How far this is probable the jury will judge. It will be observed that he gave up his habits
of caution as he approached the place of the robbery. He then loaded his pistols at the tavern,
where persons might and did see him; and he then also travelled in the night. He passed the
bridge over Merrimack River a few minutes before nine o'clock. He was now at a part of his
progress where he was within the observation of other witnesses, and something could be known
of him besides what he told of himself. Immediately after him passed the two persons with their
wagons, Shaw and Keyser. Close upon them followed the mail-coach. Now, these wagons and the
mail must have passed within three rods, at most, of Goodridge, at the very time of the robbery.
They must have been very near the spot, the very moment of the attack; and if he was under
the robbers' hands as long as he represents, or if they staid on the spot long enough to do
half what he says they did, they must have been there when the wagons and the stage passed.
At any rate, it is next to impossible, by any computation of time, to put these carriages so
far from the spot, that the drivers should not have heard the cry of murder, which he says
he raised, or the report of the two pistols, which he says were discharged. In three quarters
of an hour, or an hour, he returned, and repassed the bridge.

