Though unpleasant and profoundly disappointing, my experience as a mental hospital psychologist
was, like being in nursing school, also very valuable. Not only did I learn how to diagnose,
and evaluate the severity of mental illness and assess the dangerousness of the mentally ill,
I learned to understand them, to feel comfortable with them, and found that I was never afraid
of them. Fearlessness is a huge advantage. The mentally ill seem to have a heightened ability
to spot fear in others. If they sense that you are afraid they frequently enjoy terrorizing
you. When psychotic people know you feel comfortable with them, and probably understand a great
deal of what they are experiencing, when they know that you can and intend to control them,
they experience a huge sense of relief. I could always get mentally ill people to tell me what
was really going on in their heads when no one else could get them to communicate.

A few years later I married an American and became the Mental Health Coordinator for Whatcom
County, the northwestern corner of Washington State. I handled all the legal proceedings in
the county for mentally ill people. After treatment in the state mental hospital I supervised
their reentry into the community, and attempted to provide some follow up. This work further
confirmed my conclusions that in most cases the mentally ill weren't helped by conventional
treatment. Most of them rapidly became social problems after discharge. It seemed the mental
hospital's only ethically defensible function was incarceration--providing temporary relief
for the family and community from the mentally ill person's destructiveness.

I did see a few people recover in the mental health system. Inevitably these were young, and
had not yet become institutionalized, a term describing someone who comes to like being in
the hospital because confinement feels safe. Hospitalization can mean three square meals and
a bed. It frequently means an opportunity to have a sex life (many female inmates are highly
promiscuous). Many psychotics are also criminal; the hospital seems far better to them than
jail. Many chronically mentally ill are also experts at manipulating the system. When homeless,
they deliberately get hospitalized for some outrageous deed just before winter. They then "recover"
when the fine weather of spring returns.

After a year as Mental Health Co-ordinator, I had enough of the "system" and decided that it
was as good a time as any to return to school for a Ph.D., this time at University. of Oregon
where I studied clinical and counseling psychology and gerontology. While in graduate school
I became pregnant and had my first child. Not surprisingly, this experience profoundly changed
my consciousness. I realized that it had perhaps been all right for me to be somewhat irresponsible
about my own nutrition and health, but that it was not okay to inflict poor nutrition on my
unborn child. At that time I was addicted to salty, deep-fat fried corn chips and a diet pop.
I thought I had to have these so-called foods every day. I tended to eat for taste, in other
words, what I liked, not necessarily what would give me the best nutrition. I was also eating
a lot of what most people would consider healthy food: meat, cheese, milk, whole grains, nuts,
vegetables, and fruits.

My constitution had seemed strong and vital enough through my twenties to allow this level
of dietary irresponsibility. During my early 20s I had even recovered from a breast cancer
by sheer will power. (I will discuss this later.) So before my pregnancy I had not questioned
my eating habits.

As my body changed and adapted itself to it's new purpose I began visiting the libraries and
voraciously read everything obtainable under the topic of nutrition--all the texts, current
magazines, nutritional journals, and health newsletters. My childhood habit of self-directed
study paid off. I discovered alternative health magazines like Let's Live, Prevention, Organic
Gardening, and Best Ways, and promptly obtained every back issue since they were first published.
Along the way I ran into articles by Linus Pauling on vitamin C, and sent away for all of his
books, one of these was co-authored with David Hawkins, called The Orthomolecular Approach
to Mental Disorders.

This book had a profound effect on me. I instantly recognized that it was Truth with a capital
"T", although the orthomolecular approach was clearly in opposition to the established medical
model and contradicted everything I had ever learned as a student or professional. Here at
last was the exciting alternative approach to treating mental disorders I had so long sought.
I filed this information away, waiting for an opportunity to use it. And I began to study all
the references in The Orthomolecular Approach to Mental Disorders dealing with correcting the
perceptual functioning of psychotic people using natural substances.

In the course of delving through libraries and book stores, I also came across the Mokelumne
Hill Publishing Company (now defunct). This obscure publisher reprinted many unusual and generally
crudely reproduced out-of-print books about raw foods diets, hygienic medicine, fruitarianism,
fasting, breathairianism, plus some works discussing spiritual aspects of living that were
far more esoteric than I had ever thought existed. I decided that weird or not, I might as
well find out everything potentially useful. So I spent a lot of money ordering their books.
Some of Mokelumne Hill's material really expanded my thoughts. Though much of it seemed totally
outrageous, in every book there usually was one line, one paragraph, or if I was lucky one
whole chapter that rang true for me.

Recognizing capital "T" Truth when one sees it is one of the most important abilities a person
can have. Unfortunately, every aspect of our mass educational system attempts to invalidate
this skill. Students are repeatedly told that derivation from recognized authority and/or the
scientific method are the only valid means to assess the validity of data. But there is another
parallel method to determine the truth or falsehood of information: Knowing. We Know by the
simple method of looking at something and recognizing its correctness. It is a spiritual ability.
I believe we all have it. But in my case, I never lost the ability to Know because I almost
never attended school.

Thus it is that I am absolutely certain How and When to Be Your Own Doctor will be recognized
as Truth by some of my readers and rejected as unscientific, unsubstantiated, or anecdotal
information by others. I accept this limitation on my ability to teach. If what you read in
the following pages seems True for you, great! If it doesn't, there is little or nothing I
could do to further convince.

I return now to the time of my first pregnancy. In the face of all these new Truths I was discovering
concerning health and nutrition, I made immediate changes in my diet. I severely reduced my
animal protein intake and limited cooked food in general. I began taking vitamin and mineral
supplements. I also choose a highly atypical Ph.D. dissertation topic, "The Orthomolecular
Treatment of Mental Disorders." This fifty cent word, orthomolecular, basically means readjusting
the body chemistry by providing unusually large amounts of specific nutrient substances normally
found in the human body (vitamins and minerals). Orthomolecular therapy for mental disorders
is supported by good diet, by removal of allergy-producing substances, by control of hypoglycemia,
plus counseling, and provision of a therapeutic environment.

My proposed dissertation topic met with nothing but opposition. The professors on my doctoral
committee had never heard of the word orthomolecular, and all of them were certain it wasn't
an accepted, traditional area of research. Research in academia is supposed to be based on
the works of a previous researchers who arrived at hypothesis based on data obtained by strictly
following scientific methodology. "Scientific" data requires control groups, matched populations,
statistical analysis, etc. In my case there was no previous work my dissertation committee
would accept, because the available data did not originate from a medical school or psychology
department they recognized.

Due to a lot of determination and perseverance I finally did succeed in getting my thesis accepted,
and triumphed over my doctoral committee. And I graduated with a dual Ph.D. in both counseling
psychology and gerontology. My ambition was to establish the orthomolecular approach on the
west coast. At that time I knew of only two clinics in the world actively using nutritional
therapy. One was in New York and the other, was a Russian experimental fasting program for
schizophrenics. Doctors Hoffer and Osmond had used orthomolecular therapy in a Canadian mental
hospital as early as 1950, but they had both gone on to other things.

The newly graduated Dr. Isabelle Moser, Ph.D. was at this point actually an unemployed mother,
renting an old, end-of-the-road, far-in-the-country farmhouse; by then I had two small daughters.
I strongly preferred to take care of my own children instead of turning them over to a baby
sitter. My location and my children made it difficult for me to work any place but at home.
So naturally, I made my family home into a hospital for psychotic individuals. I started out
with one resident patient at a time, using no psychiatric drugs. I had very good results and
learned a tremendous amount with each client, because each one was different and each was my
first of each type.

With any psychotic residing in your home it is foolhardy to become inattentive even for one
hour, including what are normally considered sleeping hours. I have found the most profoundly
ill mentally ill person still to be very crafty and aware even though they may appear to be
unconscious or nonresponsive. Psychotics are also generally very intuitive, using faculties
most of us use very little or not at all. For example one of my first patients, Christine,
believed that I was trying to electrocute her. Though she would not talk, she repeatedly drew
pictures depicting this. She had, quite logically within her own reality, decided to kill me
with a butcher knife in self-defense before I succeeded in killing her. I had to disarm Christine
several times, hide all the household knives, change my sleeping spot frequently, and generally
stay sufficiently awake at night to respond to slight, creaky sounds that could indicate the
approach of stealthily placed small bare feet.

With orthomolecular treatment Christine improved but also became more difficult to live with
as she got better. For example, when she came out of catatonic-like immobility, she became
extremely promiscuous, and was determined to sleep with my husband. In fact she kept crawling
into bed with him with no clothes on. Either we had to forcefully remove her or the bed would
be handed over to her--without a resident man. Christine then decided (logically) that I was
an obstacle to her sex life, and once more set out to kill me. This stage also passed, eventually
and Christine got tolerably well.

Christine's healing process is quite typical and demonstrates why orthomolecular treatment
is not popular. As a psychotic genuinely improves, their aberrated behavior often becomes more
aggressive initially and thus, harder to control. It seems far more convenient for all concerned
to suppress psychotic behavior with stupefying drugs. A drugged person can be controlled when
they're in a sort of perpetual sedation but then, they never get genuinely well, either.

Another early patient, Elizabeth, gave me a particularly valuable lesson, one that changed
the direction of my career away from curing insanity and toward regular medicine. Elizabeth
was a catatonic schizophrenic who did not speak or move, except for some waxy posturing. She
had to be fed, dressed and pottied. Elizabeth was a pretty little brunette who got through
a couple of years of college and then spent several years in a state mental hospital. She had
recently run away from a hospital, and had been found wandering aimlessly or standing rigidly,
apparently staring fixedly at nothing. The emergency mental health facility in a small city
nearby called me up and asked if I would take her. I said I would, and drove into town to pick
her up. I found Elizabeth in someone's back yard staring at a bush. It took me three hours
to persuade her to get in my car, but that effort turned out to be the easiest part of the
next months.

Elizabeth would do nothing for herself, including going to the bathroom. I managed to get some
nutrition into her, and change her clothes, but that was about all I could do. Eventually she
wore me down; I drifted off for an hour's nap instead of watching her all night. Elizabeth
slipped away in the autumn darkness and vanished. Needless to say, when daylight came I desperately
searched the buildings, the yard, gardens, woods, and even the nearby river. I called in a
missing person report and the police looked as well. We stopped searching after a week because
there just wasn't any place else to look. Then, into my kitchen, right in front of our round
eyes and gaping mouths, walked a smiling, pleasant, talkative young woman who was quite sane.

She said, "Hello I'm Elizabeth! I'm sorry I was such a hassle last week, and thank you for
trying to take care of me so well. I was too sick to know any better." She said she had gone
out our back door the week before and crawled under a pile of fallen leaves on the ground in
our back yard with a black tarp over them. We had looked under the tarp at least fifty times
during the days past, but never thought to look under the leaves as well.

This amazing occurrence made my head go bong to say the least; it was obvious that Elizabeth
had not been 'schizophrenic' because of her genetics, nor because of stress, nor malnutrition,
nor hypoglycemia, nor because of any of the causes of mental illness I had previously learned
to identify and rectify, but because of food allergies. Elizabeth was spontaneously cured because
she'd had nothing to eat for a week. The composting pile of leaves hiding her had produced
enough heat to keep her warm at night and the heap contained sufficient moisture to keep her
from getting too dehydrated. She looked wonderful, with clear shiny blue eyes, clear skin with
good color, though she was slightly slimmer than when I had last seen her.

I then administered Coca's Pulse Test (see the Appendix) and quickly discovered Elizabeth was
wildly intolerant to wheat and dairy products. Following the well known health gurus of that
time like Adelle Davis, I had self-righteously been feeding her home-made whole wheat bread
from hand-ground Organic wheat, and home-made cultured yogurt from our own organically-fed
goats. But by doing this I had only maintained her insanity. Elizabeth was an intelligent young
woman, and once she understood what was causing her problems, she had no trouble completely
eliminating certain foods from her diet. She shuddered at the thought that had she not come
to my place and discovered the problem, she would probably have died on the back ward of some
institution for the chronically mentally ill.

As for me, I will always be grateful to her for opening my eyes and mind a little wider. Elizabeth's
case showed me why Russian schizophrenics put on a 30 day water fast had such a high recovery
rate. I also remembered all the esoteric books I had read extolling the benefits of fasting.
I also remembered two occasions during my own youth when I had eaten little or nothing for
approximately a month each without realizing that I was "fasting." And doing this had done
me nothing but good.

Once when I was thirteen my mother sent my "little" brother and I to a residential fundamentalist
bible school. I did not want to go there, although my brother did; he had decided he wanted
to be a evangelical minister. I hated bible school because I was allowed absolutely no independence
of action. We were required to attend church services three times a day during the week, and
five services on Sunday. As I became more and more unhappy, I ate less and less; in short order
I wasn't eating at all. The school administration became concerned after I had dropped about
30 pounds in two months, notified my mother and sent me home. I returned to at-home schooling.
I also resumed eating.

I fasted one other time for about a month when I was 21. It happened because I had nothing
to do while visiting my mother before returning to University except help with housework and
prepare meals. The food available in the backwoods of central B.C. didn't appeal to me because
it was mostly canned vegetables, canned milk, canned moose meat and bear meat stews with lots
of gravy and greasy potatoes. I decided to pass on it altogether. I remember rather enjoying
that time as a fine rest and I left feeling very good ready to take on the world full force
ahead. At that time I didn't know there was such a thing as fasting, it just happened that way.

After Elizabeth went on her way, I decided to experimentally fast myself. I consumed only water
for two weeks. But I must have had counter intentions to this fast because I found myself frequently
having dreams about sugared plums, and egg omelets, etc. And I didn't end up feeling much better
after this fast was over (although I didn't feel any worse either), because I foolishly broke
the fast with one of my dream omelets. And I knew better! Every book I'd ever read on fasting
stated how important it is to break a fast gradually, eating only easy-to-digest foods for
days or weeks before resuming one's regular diet.

From this experiment I painfully learned how important it is to break a fast properly. Those
eggs just didn't feel right, like I had an indigestible stone in my belly. I felt very tired
after the omelet, not energized one bit by the food. I immediately cut back my intake to raw
fruits and vegetables while the eggs cleared out of my system. After a few days on raw food
I felt okay, but I never did regain the shine I had achieved just before I resumed eating.

This is one of the many fine things about fasting, it allows you to get in much better communication
with your own body, so that you can hear it when it objects to something you're putting in
it or doing to it. It is not easy to acquire this degree of sensitivity to your body unless
you remove all food for a sufficiently long period; this allows the body to get a word in edgewise
that we are willing and able to listen to. Even when we do hear the body protesting, we frequently
decide to turn a deaf ear, at least until the body starts producing severe pain or some other
symptom that we can't ignore.

