Standing in the fireplace Berrington watched for the effect. The floor sank away as if working
on a pivot; it came around with the other side up, and on the other side was a carpet quite
similar to the first in pattern. There was also another table which came up on a swinging balance
so that everything on it would not be disturbed.

"Well, this is a pretty fine Arabian Nights' form of entertainment," Berrington muttered. "I
wonder if I can keep the thing half suspended like that whilst I examine the vault beneath.
I suppose if I push the lever half back it will remain stationary. That's it!" The lever being
pushed half back caused the machinery to lock so that the floor was all on the slant. There
was a kind of space below which appeared to be paved and bricked like a well. Into this the
full rays of the electric light shone. It was easy to jump down there and examine the place,
and Berrington proceeded to do so.

So far as he could see there was a heap of old clothes huddled together in a corner. In an
idle way Berrington turned them over. A collar fell out from the rest and Berrington took it
up--a white collar that had been worn for some little time. Berrington started as his eye fell
on the name plainly set out in marking ink.

"Great Scott," he cried. "Why it is one of Sir Charles Darryll's!"

CHAPTER XXXII

Berrington was at a loss to know whether to be pleased or not at his discovery. It might prove
to be an important clue, on the other hand it might point to more violence than Berrington
had anticipated. It was not an old collar, as Berrington could see by the date of it; apparently
it had only been worn once, for there was no laundry mark upon it, though it was dirty, more
dirty than a fastidious man like Sir Charles would have used.

There was absolutely nothing further to be seen in the vault, so Berrington climbed thoughtfully
out of it again. He readjusted the floor, for he had no wish for his handiwork to remain. He
would wait now for Beatrice to emerge and see her safely on her way home. A little later on,
perhaps, and he would have a great deal of useful information to impart to Inspector Field.

He opened the door of the dining-room and listened. It seemed to him that the voices in the
study had been raised a little. If he could give Beatrice a warning he would do so. Very quietly
he pushed back the swinging baize door and looked in. At the same moment Beatrice was adjusting
her hat before the mirror. Their eyes met and Berrington was satisfied. He had told Beatrice
as plainly as if he had spoken in words, that he was close by and that she was to look to him
for protection if necessary. That being so, he crept silently away again.

It was a wise precaution, for the front door opened and two people came in, giving Berrington
hardly time to get in the shelter of the dining-room. He was at no loss to identify the newcomers,
for had he not met them in that very room when he had discovered the gang who were more or
less instrumental in the disappearance of Sir Charles Darryll?

That the precious pair were after no good, needed no saying. Berrington grimly congratulated
himself on the fact that Sartoris had provided him with a weapon which was in his pocket at
the very moment. He would lounge in the vicinity of the study, and if anything happened, if
Beatrice called out for assistance or anything of that kind, he would be in a position to render
efficient service. It was no part of his game to show himself to these people without urgent
reasons for so doing.

He waited there while Beatrice was confronting the trio; she had made her discovery, and the
others were aware of the fact. Beatrice was conscious that her heart was beating faster. She
looked around for some avenue of escape. Then her courage rose again as she remembered that
Berrington was close at hand and ready to assist her.

"I will not stay here any longer," the girl said. "It seems to me that I am in the way. Please
to step aside and let me pass. Do you hear me?"

The man called Reggie grinned. He did not make the smallest attempt to move from the door.
He would have touched Beatrice had she not drawn back.

"I do not desire to detain you," he said. "Only you made a certain remark just now that calls
for an explanation. You mean that this lady and myself----"

"You know exactly what I mean," Beatrice cried. She was getting angry now, and the sneering
smile on the face of Sartoris did not tend to soothe her. "Out of your own mouth you have proved
what I did not know--that you are dangerous thieves."

"Oh, indeed. Do you not know that such language is actionable?"

"I know that it is true," Beatrice said coldly. "There are your photographs up there. Did you
not say so only a moment ago? I am greatly obliged for the information."

The girl stepped across the room and removed the two photographs from their places. Nobody
interfered; as a matter of fact, they were all secretly admiring the girl's courage.

"These two faces I know," she said. "That is Countess de la Moray, and that is the man who
called himself General Gastang. They were staying at the hotel on the night that my poor dear
father's body so strangely disappeared. The Countess was so good as to extend to me her deepest
sympathy; she asked me to go and stay with her in Paris."

The woman called Cora laughed. The comedy of it appealed to her and she could not help it.
She was thinking of the easy way in which she had deceived Beatrice. Something like an oath
came from Sartoris. He had his own very good reasons why Beatrice should be deceived in this
matter.

"I assure you that you are quite mistaken," he said.

"Indeed I am nothing of the kind," Beatrice cried. "Now that I know the truth, I can see the
likeness plainly enough. I don't say that I should have done so had I not had so strong a hint
a little while ago, but you cannot disguise features out of recognition. And I say that those
two people are no more than vulgar swindlers."

Again the woman laughed, but the man's face grew dark.

"You are very bold," the man called Reggie growled. "If you have any friends near----"

It was on the tip of Beatrice's tongue to say that she had, but she wisely restrained herself.
At the same time it was good to be reminded that Berrington was close by and that perhaps he
was listening to the conversation at the present moment.

"I am stating no more than the truth," Beatrice went on. "The so-called Countess came to me
and she pretended sympathy. She made me believe that she was an old friend of my father. Then
she went away, leaving General Gastang to talk to me. I will tell you presently what she was
going to do. I have been finding out things for myself."

The woman did not laugh this time; there was an angry spot on either cheek.

"You are piquante and interesting," she said. "Pray believe that I am listening to you with
the deepest attention. It is good to have one's thoughts read for one in this fashion."

"I was alone with the General," said Beatrice, ignoring the last speaker altogether. "Fortunately
for me, the General recognized some acquaintance--probably a police officer--for he disappeared
discreetly and left me to myself and my suspicions. My suspicions led me to my bedroom presently,
where I had left some extremely valuable diamonds."

"The same that you have in your pocket at the present moment," the woman Cora exclaimed. "If----"

A furious oath rang out from the man Reggie. Just for a moment it looked as if he were about
to strike the incautious speaker. She reddened and grew confused. Sartoris listened, with an
evil grin on his face. He seemed to be amused at something.

