The nuisance at last became insufferable, and Judge Tilghman applied to Mr. Hembel to assist
him in getting rid of this troublesome brute; the latter gentleman advised the administration
of a small quantity of strychnia, concealed in a portion of meat, which proposition was agreed
upon and immediately carried into execution. A short time after the administering of this dose
the spaniel sickened, and retired from his post to the kitchen, which was in the basement,
and where an Irish domestic was engaged in washing; the dog appeared uneasy for a time, and
suddenly, being taken with the involuntary muscular convulsions that so frequently follow the
administration of this powerful drug, ran around the kitchen yelping and howling at a most
terrible rate, and ultimately, to the no small discomfiture and amazement of the maid, sprang
up into the wash-tub, at which unceremonious caper, on the part of the dog, the woman became
greatly alarmed and ran out into the street, followed by the whole household, crying mad dog,
which soon produced an uproar in the neighbourhood, no one daring to satisfy himself as to
the correctness of the report, and all, perhaps, too ignorant of the subject to discern the
real cause of the animal's singular behaviour. The tailor, still bearing a strong attachment
to his unfortunate favourite, and being somewhat more daring than his neighbours, ventured,
at length, to peep into the kitchen to see the state of affairs, and seeing the dog still convulsed
and foaming at the mouth, was more than ever confirmed in the belief of hydrophobia, and knowing
full well the biting propensities of the animal, independent of rabies, concluded, much to
the relief of every one, to shoot him. The next step in the programme was the dragging out
and consigning of the patient to a watery grave, which was accomplished by placing, with a
pair of tongs, a noose over the head of the animal, and thus hauling him out of the basement
window amid the cheers of the assembled populace who soon cast him into the Delaware.

The second case of rabies as related to us by Mr. Hembel was as follows:--In 1793 the barbers
of the city were in the habit of going around to the various boarding-houses for the purpose
of shaving the visitors in their apartments, instead of accommodating them, as at the present
time, in their own establishments.

One of these knights of the razor, living also in Front street, when going to and from a fashionable
boarding-house in the vicinity, was not unfrequently assailed by a small cur who often took
him by the heels when hurrying along.

To get rid of this annoying little animal as speedily and secretly as possible, he had recourse
to the powers of strychnia, which produced in a very short time similar effects upon the poor
victim, and the result was another great hue and cry about mad dogs.

These authentic and remarkable cases of hydrophobia were heralded in all the papers of the
day, which, from that time forward, were filled with notes of caution to all dog-owners.

Of the 'treatment' of rabies we will make but a few remarks, as of the immense number of specifics
proposed for this disease, amounting in all to several hundred, few or none can be relied on
to the exclusion of the others; but those medicines, perhaps, known as opiates or anti-spasmodics,
claim a larger share of attention than any others in combating the disease after its development.
In looking over the very original works of Jacques Du Fouilloux, a worthy cynegetical writer
of the sixteenth century, we find a prescription that was supposed by many to be an infallible
specific for this disease, and as it appears to us quite as certain in its effects on the animal
economy as many others of the inert substances that have been lauded to the skies both in our
country and in other parts of the world as antidotes, we take the liberty of transcribing it,
as also of adding a translation of his quaint French.

'Autre recepte par mots preservants la rage.'

'Ay appris vne recepte d'vn Gentil-homme, en Bretaigne, lequel faisoit de petits escriteaux,
ou n'y auoit seulement que deux lignes, lesquels il mettoit en vne omellette d'oeufs, puis
les faisoit aualer aux chiens qui auorient este mords de chiens enragez, et auoit dedans l'escriteau,
'Y Ran Quiran Cafram Cafratrem, Cafratrosque'. Lesquels mots disoit estre singuliers pour empescher
les chiens de la rage, mais quant a moi ie n'y adiouste pas foy.

I have learned a recipe from a nobleman of Brittany, which is composed of a written charm,
in which there are only two lines; these he put in an omelet of eggs, he then made the dogs
that had been bitten by a rabid animal swallow them. There was on the paper "'Y Ran Quiran
Cafram Cafratrem, Cafratrosque'". These words were said to be singularly efficacious in preventing
madness in dogs, but for my part I do not credit it.

Although our quaint author considered the above charm even too marvellous for his belief, we
give below his own prescription in which he placed implicit confidence, but, no doubt, on trial
it would prove '"as singularly efficacious" as the other'.

Baing pour lauer, les chiens, quand ils ont este mords des chiens enragez, de peur qu'ils enragent.

Quand les chiens sont mords ou desbrayez de chiens enragez, il faut incontinent emplir vne
pippe d'eau, puis prendre quatre boisseaux de sel et les ietter dedans, en meslaut fort le
sel auec vn baston pour le faire fondre soudainement: et quand il sera fondu, faut mettre le
chien dedans, et le plonger tout, sans qu'il paroisse rien, par neuf fois: puis quand il sera
bien laue, faut le laisser aller, cela l'empeschera d'enrager.

When a dog has been bitten or scratched by another affected with madness, we must immediately
take a tub of water and throw into it four bushels of salt, stirring it briskly with a stick
to make it dissolve quickly. When the salt shall be dissolved, put the dog into the bath, and
plunge him well nine times, so that the bath shall cover him each time; now that he is well
washed you may let him go, as this will prevent his becoming rabid.

Having given publicity to the two preceding valuable receipts, we must be pardoned for adding
our own views upon this point, as a caution to those who may not feel sufficient faith in the
remedies above mentioned.

