If an animal is to progress, it must keep such a conformity ever secondary to a still more
important element, namely, conformity or obedience to the laws of its own structure and being.
This second element the mollusk and every creeping stage neglected, and the result of this
neglect was stagnation or degeneration. Activity was essential to progress from the very structure
and laws of development of the animal, while a great abundance of food was not. A life of ease,
for the same reason, necessarily results in degeneration.

But you will ask, What becomes of Mr. Darwin's theory of evolution, if obedience to the laws
of individual being is more important than conformity to external conditions? Both are evidently
necessary, and they are not so different as they may seem at first sight. They are really one
and the same. Bringing out the best and highest there is in us, is the only true conformity
to that which is deepest and surest and most enduring in our environment. That in environment
which makes for digestion is almost palpable and tangible, that which makes for activity less
so perhaps; but that which makes for brain and truth and right is intangible and invisible.
We easily fail to notice it; and, unless we take a careful view of the course of development
in the highest forms of life, we may be inclined to deny its existence. But it is surely there,
if man is a product of evolution.

Each successive stage of animal life is not the preceding stage on a higher plane, but the
preceding stage modified in conformity to the environment of that from which it has just arisen.
Says Professor Hertwig[A]: "During the process of organic development the external is continually
becoming an integral part of the individual. The germ is continually growing and changing at
the expense of surrounding conditions." Every stage thus contains the result of a host of reactions
to a ruder and older portion of environment. And the higher we go the more has the original
protoplasm and structure been modified as the result of these reactions.

  [Footnote A: Hertwig: Zeit- und Streitfragen, p. 82.]

We have seen clearly that environment must be studied through its effect upon living beings.
Viewed from any other standpoint it appears to be a myriad, almost a chaos, of interacting,
apparently conflicting, forces. The resultant of some of these is shown by the animal at any
stage of its development. And as the animal advances, the resultant determining its new line,
or stage, of advance, includes new forces, to which it has only lately become sensitive. And
thus the human mind, as the last and highest product of evolution, mirrors most adequately
the resultant of all its forces. If we would know environment we must study ourselves, not
atoms alone, nor rocks, nor worms.

Extremely sensitive photographic plates, after long exposure, have proven the existence of
stars so dim and far-off as to be invisible to the best telescopes. Man's mind is just such
a sensitive plate; it is the only valid representation of environment.

The truth would appear to be that the law is present in environment, but hard to read; but
it is stamped upon our structure and being so deeply and plainly that the dullest of us cannot
fail to read it. We learned the fact of gravitation the first time that we fell down in learning
to walk, long afterward we learned that its law guided earth and moon. And it is the presence
of this law within us, and our own knowledge that we are conscious of it, that makes man without
excuse. But conformity to that which is deepest in environment often, always, demands non-conformity
to some of the most palpable of surrounding conditions.

And this difference is exactly what I have been trying to put before you. The mollusk conformed,
but the vertebrate conformed in a very different way, and was transformed, "metamorphosed,"
to translate the Greek word literally, into something higher. And let us not forget that man
conforms consciously and voluntarily, if at all; he is able to read in himself and environment
the law to which lower forms have been compelled unconsciously to conform.

These facts merely illustrate a great law of life. No man's eye, much less hand, can grasp
the whole of the present and at the same time the future. Rather what we usually call present
advantage is not advantage at all, but the first step in degeneration. If one will be rich
in old age he must deny himself some gratifications in youth; his present reward is his self-control.
If a man will climb higher than his fellows he must expect to be sometimes solitary; his reward
is the ever-widening view, though the path be rougher and the air more biting than in their
lower altitude. If he point to heights yet to attain, the majority will disbelieve him or say,
"Our present height was good enough for our ancestors, it is good enough for us. Why sacrifice
a good thing and make yourself ridiculous scrambling after what in the end may prove unattainable?"
If you discover new truths you will certainly be called a subverter of old ones. And this is
entirely natural. The upward path was never intended to be easy.

Read the "Gorgias" of Plato, and let us listen to the closing words of Socrates in that dialogue:
"And so, bidding farewell to those things which most men account honors, and looking onward
to the truth, I shall earnestly endeavor to grow, so far as may be, in goodness, and thus live,
and thus, when the time comes, die. And, to the best of my power, I exhort all other men also;
and you especially, in my turn, I exhort to this life and contest, which is, I protest, far
above all contests here." You must remember that Callicles has been taunting Socrates with
his lack of worldly wisdom and the certainty that in any court of justice he would be absolutely
helpless because of his lack of knowledge of the rhetorician's art: "This way then we will
follow, and we will call upon all other men to do the same, not that which you believe in and
call upon me to follow; for that way, Callicles, is worth nothing."

And Socrates met the end which he expected: death at the hands of his fellow-citizens.

And here perhaps a little glimmer of light is thrown into one of the darkest corners of human
experience. There is a vanity which is done upon the earth, that there be just men unto whom
it happeneth according to the work of the wicked; again, there be wicked men to whom it happeneth
according to the work of the righteous: I said that this also is vanity." (Eccles. viii. 14;
ix. 11). It is this element of chance that threatens to make a mockery of effort, and sometimes
seems to make life but a travesty. The terrible feature of Tennyson's description of Arthur's
last, dim battle in the west is not the "crash of battle-axe on shattered helm," but the all-engulfing
mist.

Perhaps this is all intended to teach us that riches and favor, and even bread, are not the
essentials of life, and that failure to attain these is not such ruin as we often think. But
no man ever struggled for wisdom, righteousness, unselfishness, and heroism without attaining
them; even though the more he attained the more dissatisfied he became with all previous attainment.
And if our slight attainments in wisdom and knowledge always brought wealth and favor, we might
rest satisfied with the latter, instead of clearly recognizing that wisdom must be its own
reward. Uncertainty and deprivation are the best and only training for a hero, not sure reward
paid in popular plaudits.

Political economists speak of the productiveness and prospectiveness of capital. We may well
borrow these terms, using them in a somewhat modified sense. In our sense capital is productive
in so far as it gives an immediate return; it is prospective in proportion as the return is
expected largely in the future. A "pocket" may yield an immediate very large return of gold
nuggets at a very slight expense of labor and appliances, but it is soon exhausted. In a mine
the ore may be poor near the surface, but grow richer as the shaft deepens; the vein is narrow
above, but widens below. The returns are at first small, its inexhaustible richness becomes
apparent only after considerable time and labor. The value of the "pocket" is purely productive,
that of the mine largely or purely prospective. Indeed it may be opened at a loss. But even
a rich mine may be worked purely for its productive value; it may be "skinned."

Let us apply this thought to the development of a species; although what is true of the species
will generally be true of the individual also, for the development of the two is, in the main,
parallel. In the animal all functions are to a certain extent productive, and all directly
or indirectly prospective. When we examine the sequence of functions we cannot but notice how
largely their value is prospective. As long as a lower function is rising to supremacy in the
animal, it appears to be retained purely for its productive value; thus digestion in hydra
or gastræa. But after a time animals appeared which had some muscle and nerve. And, by the
process of natural selection, those animals which used digestion as an end for its productive
value became food for, and gave place to, those using it as a means of supporting muscle and
nerve of greater prospective value. And similarly, those animals which used muscle, or even
mind, productively gave place to others using these prospectively.

In other words, the functions and capacities of any animal, the extent of its conformity to
environment, may be regarded as its capital. The animal may use this capital productively or
prospectively. It may spend its income, and more too; it may increase its capital. Now social
capital will always fall sooner or later to those communities whose members use it most prospectively,
who are willing to forego, to quite an extent, present enjoyment, and look for future return.
The same is true of all development. Sessile forms and mollusks, and, in a less degree, crabs
and reptiles, worked for immediate return. They are like extravagant heirs who draw on their
capital and sooner or later come to poverty. The primitive vertebrate, the mammal, and the
other ancestors of man used their capital prospectively, and it increased, as if at compound
interest.

The spendthrift appears at first sight to have the greatest enjoyment in life, the rising business
man works hard and foregoes much. I believe that the latter is really by far the happier of
the two. But, if you can spend only a day or two in a city, and your examination is superficial,
you may easily make the mistake of considering the spendthrift as the most successful man in
the community. So, in our brief visit to the world in times past, we picked out the crab, the
reptile, and the carnivore as its rising members.

Once more, capital can be spent very quickly; to use it prospectively requires time. This is
a truism; but it does no harm to call attention to truisms which have been neglected. Organs
and powers of great prospective value are slow and difficult of development. If their increase
is to be at all rapid, they must start early. If their development and culture is deferred,
there will be little or no advance, but probably degeneration. Extravagance grows rapidly and
soon becomes irresistible; habits of saving must be formed early. The same is true of the development
of all other virtues.

There is in the child an orderly sequence of development of mental traits. While these powers
are in their earlier, so to speak embryonic, stages of development, they can be fostered and
increased or retarded. They are still plastic. Very early in a child's life acquisitiveness
shows itself; he begins to say "I," and "mine," and desires things to be his "very own." And
this can be fostered so that the child will grow up a "covetous machine." Or he may be taught
to share with others.

Not so much later, while the child is still in the lower grades of his school life, comes the
period of moral development. If, during this period, these powers are fostered and cultivated,
they may, and probably will, be dominant throughout his life. And herein lies the dignity and
glory of the unappreciated, underpaid, and overworked teachers of our "lower" schools, that
they have the opportunity to cultivate these moral powers of the child during these most critical
years of his life. Repression or neglect here works life-long and irreparable harm. The young
man goes out into the world. Here "practical" men continually instruct him by precept upon
precept, line upon line, that he cannot afford to be generous until he has acquired wealth;
that he must first win success for himself, and that he can then help others. And, unless his
character is like pasture-grown oak, he follows and improves upon their teachings. He reverses
the sequence of functions. He puts acquisitiveness first and right and sterling honesty and
unselfishness second. For a score or more of years he labors. At first he honestly intends
to build up a strong character and a generous nature just as soon as he can afford to; but
for the present he cannot afford it. If he is to succeed, he must do as others do and walk
in the beaten track. He wins wealth and position, or learning and fame. He now has the ability
and means to help others, but he no longer cares to do so. Loyalty to truth, sterling honesty--the
genuine, not the conventional counterfeit--unselfishness, in one word, character, these are
plants of slow growth. They require cultivation by habit through long years. In his case they
have become aborted and incapable of rejuvenescence. But his rudiment of a moral nature feels
twinges of remorse. He ought not to have reversed the sequence of functions, and he knows it.
But he cannot retrace his steps. He made the development of character impossible when he made
wealth his first and chief aim. If he has a million dollars he tries to insure his soul by
leaving in his will one-tenth to build a church, or, possibly, one-half for foreign missions.
In the latter case he will be held up as a shining example to all the youth of the land, and
the churches will ring with his praises. But what has been the effect of his life on the moral,
social capital of the community? Is the world better or worse for his life? He has all his
life been disseminating the germs of a soul-blight more infectious and deadly than any bodily
disease.

If he has made learning or fame his chief aim, he probably has not the money to buy soul-insurance.
He takes refuge in agnosticism, like an ostrich in a bush. His agnosticism is in his will;
he does not wish to see. Or its cause is atrophy, through disuse, of moral vision. He cannot
see. There are agnostics of quite another stamp, whom we must respect and honor for their sterling
honesty and high character, though we may have little respect for their philosophical tenets.
But how much has our scholar advanced the morality of the community? He has probably done even
more harm than the business man, who is a mere "covetous machine."

The "practical" man has reversed the sequence of functions. Character is, and must be, first;
and wealth, learning, power, and fame are the materials, often exceedingly refractory, which
it must subjugate to its growth and use. And this subjugation is anything but easy. The reversal
of the sequence results in a moral degradation and poverty indefinitely more dangerous to the
community than the slums of our great cities. For these may be controlled and cleansed; but
the moral slum floods our legislatures and positions of honor and trust, and invades the churches.
The mental and moral water-supply of the community is loaded with disease-germs.

The social wealth of a community is the sum total of the wealth of its individual members.
And a community is truly wealthy only when this wealth is, to a certain extent, diffused. If
there is any truth in our argument that the sequence of functions culminates in righteousness
and unselfishness, the real social wealth of a community consists in its moral character, not
in its money, or even in its intelligence. We may rest assured that character, resulting in
industry and economy, will bring sufficient means of subsistence, so that all its members will
be fed and housed and clothed. And art and culture, of the most ennobling and inspiring sort,
will surely follow. And even if such literature failed as largely composes our present fin-de-siècle
garbage-heap, we would not regret its absence. That community will and must survive in which
the largest proportion of members make the accumulation of character their chief and first
aim. And to this community every rival must in time yield its place and power, and all its
acquisitions. And in every advancing community the position of any class or profession will
in time be determined by its moral wealth.

But this moral wealth is intangible. The rewards and penalties of moral law easily escape notice
in our hasty and superficial study of life. The God immanent in our environment often seems
to hide himself. The altar of Jehovah is fallen down, and Baal's temples are crowded with loud-mouthed
worshippers. The bribes of present enjoyment and of immediate success loom up before us, and
we doubt if any other success is possible.

But the law of progress, even now so dimly discernible in environment, is written in our minds
in letters of fire. For we have already seen that environment can be understood only by tracing
its effects in the development of life. What is best and highest in us is the record of the
working of what is best and highest in environment. And the personal God so dimly seen in environment
is revealed in man's soul. Man must study himself, if he is to know what environment requires
of him. And if the knowledge of himself and of the laws of his being is the highest knowledge,
is not the vision of, and struggle toward, higher attainments, not yet realized and hence necessarily
foreseen, the only mode of farther progress? And what is this pursuit of, and devotion to,
ideals not yet realized and but dimly foreseen, if it is not Faith, "the substance of things
hoped for, and evidence of things not seen?" By it alone can man "obtain a good report." Man
must "walk by faith, not by sight." "For the things which are seen are temporal, but the things
which are not seen are eternal."

CHAPTER VIII

MAN

In Kingsley's fascinating historical romance, Raphael Aben-Ezra says to Hypatia, "Is it not
possible that we have been so busy discussing what the philosopher should be, that we have
forgotten that he must first of all be a man?" This truth we too often forget. No statesman,
philosopher, least of all teacher, can be truly great who is not, first of all, and above all,
a great man. And in our study of man are we not prone to forget that he stands in certain very
definite and close relations with surrounding nature?

Man has been the object of so much special study, his position, owing to his higher moral and
mental power, is so unique that he has often been regarded not only as a special creation,
but as created to occupy a position not only unique, but also exceptional, above many of the
very laws of nature, and not bound by them. Many speak and write of him as if it were his chief
glory and prerogative to be as far removed as possible, not only from the animal, but even
from the whole realm of nature. The mistake of making him an exception arises, after all, not
so much from too high a conception of man, at least of his possibilities, as from too low a
view of nature.

But however this view may have arisen, it is one-sided and mistaken. Man certainly has a place
in Nature--not above it. If he is the goal toward which the ascending series of living forms
has continually tended, he is a part of the series--the real goal lies far above him.

Pascal says, "It is dangerous to show a man too clearly how closely he resembles the brute
without showing him at the same time his greatness. It is equally dangerous to impress upon
him his greatness without his lowliness. It is still more dangerous to leave him in ignorance
of both. But it is of great advantage to point out to him both characteristics side by side."

A great German thinker began his work on the human soul with a discussion of the law of gravitation.

All study of man must begin with the study of the atom. Man's life we have seen to be the aggregate
of the work of all the cells of his body. But the protoplasm which composes his cells is a
chemical compound, and hence subject to all the laws of all the atoms of which it is composed.
And its molecules, or the smallest mechanically separable compounds of these atoms, are arranged
and related according to the laws of physics, so as to permit or produce the play of certain
forces which are always the result of atomic or molecular combination. Every motive or thought
demands the combustion of a certain amount of material which has been already assimilated in
the microscopic cellular laboratories of our body. Every vital activity is manifested at least
through chemical and physical forces. And the elements of the fuel for our engines we receive
through plants from the inorganic world. For the plant, as we have seen, stores up as potential
energy in its compounds the actual energy of the sun's rays. And thus man lives and thinks
by energy, obtained originally from the sun. But man not only consumes food and fuel. The complicated
protoplasm is continually wearing out and being replaced. Every cell in our bodies is a centre
toward which particles of material stream to be assimilated and form for a time a part of the
living substance, and then to be cast out again as dead matter. Our very existence depends
upon this continual change. There is synthesis of simple substances into more complex compounds,
and then analysis of these complex compounds into simpler, and from this latter process results
the energy manifested in every vital action. We are all whirlpools on the surface of nature;
when the whirling ceases we disappear. Man, like every other living being, exists in a condition
of constant interchange with surrounding nature; he is rooted in innumerable ways in the inorganic
world.

And because of these close relations the great characteristic of living beings is the necessity
and power of conformity to environment. Hence a very common definition of life is the continual
adjustment of internal relations to external relations or conditions. To a very slight extent
man can rise superior to certain of the ruder elements of his surroundings, but he gains this
victory only by learning and following the laws of the very environment which he succeeds in
subjecting to himself. Indeed his higher development and finer build bring him into touch with
an indefinitely wider range of surroundings than even the lower animal. Forces, conditions,
and relations which never enter the sphere of life of lower forms, crowd and press upon him
and he cannot escape them. His higher position, instead of freeing him from dependence upon
environment and subjection to law, makes him thus more sensitive, as well as more capable of
exact conformity to an environment of almost infinite complexity; and more sure of absolute
ruin, if ignorant, negligent, or disobedient. The words of the German poet are literally true:

        "Nach ehernen, eisernen, grossen Gesetzen,
         Müssen wir alle unseres Daseins
         Kreise vollenden."

But man is an animal. And the principal characteristic of an animal is that it eats a certain
amount of solid food. The plant lives on fluid nutriment, and this comes to it by the process
of diffusion in every drop of water and breath of air. The acquisition of food requires no
effort, and the plant makes none. It has therefore always remained stationary and almost insensible.
Not taking the first step it has never taken any of the higher ones. But solid food would not,
as a rule, come to the animal--though stationary and sessile animals are not uncommon in the
water--he must go in search of it. This called into play the powers of locomotion and perception.
And in the sequence of function we have seen digestion calling for the development of muscle;
and muscle, of nerve and brain. And the brain became the organ of mind.

Man as a mere animal is necessarily active and energetic; otherwise he stagnates and degenerates.
Labor is a curse, but work a blessing; and man's best work, of every kind, is done in the friction
of life, not in ease and quiet. Man is, further, a being composed of cells, tissues, and organs,
which were successively developed for him by the lower animal kingdoms. The old view, that
man was the microcosm, had in it a certain amount of every important truth. We need to be continually
reminded of our indebtedness in a thousand ways to the lowest and most insignificant forms of life.

Man is a vertebrate animal. This means that he has a locomotive, not protective, skeleton,
composed of cartilage--a tough, elastic, organic material, hardened, as a rule, by the deposition
of mineral salts, mainly phosphate of lime, in exceedingly fine particles, so as to form a
homogeneous, flawless, elastic, tough, light, and unyielding skeleton, held together by firm
ligaments.

The skeleton is internal, and this fact, as we have seen, gives the possibility of large size.
And size is in itself no unimportant factor. Professor Lotze maintains that without man's size
and strength, agriculture and the working of metals, and thus all civilization, would have
been impossible. But we have already seen that there is an extreme of size, e.g., in the elephant,
which makes its possessor clumsy, able to exist only where there are large amounts of food
in limited areas, slow to reproduce, and lacking in adaptability. This extreme also is avoided
in man; in this, as in many other particulars, he holds the golden mean. But we have also seen
that large size is, as a rule, correlated with long life and great opportunity for experience
and observation. And these are the foundations of intelligence. Hence the deliverance of the
higher vertebrate, and especially of man, from any iron-bound subjection to instinct.

And here another question of vital importance meets us. Is man's life at present as long as
it should or can be? The question is exceedingly difficult, but a negative answer seems more
probable. We cannot but hope that, with a better knowledge of our physical structure, a clearer
vision of the dangers to which we are exposed, more study of the laws of physiology, heredity,
and of our environment, and above all, less reckless disregard of these in a mad pursuit of
pleasure, wealth, and position, man's period of mature, healthy, and best activity may be lengthened,
perhaps, even a score of years. The mitigation of hurry and worry alone, the two great curses
of our American civilization, might postpone the collapse of our nervous systems longer than
we even dream. And if we could add even five years to the working life of our statesmen, scholars,
and discoverers, the work of these last five years, with the advantage of all previously acquired
knowledge and experience, might be of more value than that of their whole previous life. Human
advance could not but be greatly, or even vastly, accelerated.

Moreover, we have seen that the history of vertebrates is really the history of the development
of the cerebrum, forebrain or large brain, as we call it in man. This is the seat in man of
consciousness, thought, and will. This portion as a distinct and new lobe first appears in
lowest vertebrates, increases steadily in size from class to class, reaches its most rapid
development by mammals, and its culmination in man. During the tertiary period--the last of
the great geological periods--the brain in many groups of mammals increased in size, both absolutely
and relatively, eight to tenfold. Dr. Holmes says, that the education of a child should begin
a century or two before its birth; man really began his mental education at least as early
as the appearance of vertebrate life.

But man is a mammal. This means that every organ is at its best. The digestive system, while
making but a small part of the weight of the body, and built mainly on the old plan, is wonderfully
perfect in its microscopic details. The muscles are heavy and powerful, arranged with the weight
near the axis of the body, and replaced near the ends of the appendages by light, tough sinews.
The higher mammal is this compact, light, and agile. The skeleton is strong, and the levers
of the appendages are fitted to give rapidity of motion even at the expense of strength. And
this again is possible only because of the high development and strength of the muscles. Moreover,
the highest mammals are largely arboreal, and in connection with this habit have changed the
foreleg into an arm and hand. The latter became the servant of the brain and gave the possibility
of using tools.

But increase in size and activity, and the expense of producing each new individual, led to
the adoption of placental development. And the mammal is so complex, the road from the egg
to the fully developed young is so long, that a long period of gestation is necessary. And
even at birth the brain, especially of man, is anything but complete. Hence the necessity of
the mammalian habit of suckling and caring for the young. And this feebleness and dependence
of the young had begun far below man to draw out maternal tenderness and affection. And the
mammalian mode of reproduction and care of young led to a more marked difference and interdependence
between the sexes.

The result of this is man's family life, as Mr. John Fiske has shown so beautifully in that
fascinating monograph, "The Destiny of Man." And family life once introduced becomes the foundation
and bulwark of all civilization, morality, and religion. Far down in the mammalian series,
before the development of the family, maternal education has become prominent, and the young
begins life, benefited by the experiences of the parent. How much more efficient is this in
family life. But, furthermore, the family is perhaps the first, certainly the most important,
of those higher unities in which men are bound together. Social life of a sort undoubtedly
existed, before man, among birds, insects, and lower mammals. The community was often defective
or incomplete in unity, or existed under such limitations that it could not show its best results,
but that it was of vast benefit from an even higher than mere physical standpoint, no one will,
I think, deny. But with the family a new era of education and social life began.

First of all, the struggle for existence is thereby greatly modified and mitigated. This crowding
out and trampling down of the weaker by the stronger is transferred, to a certain extent, from
the individual to the family and, in great degree, from the family to larger and larger social
units. For within the limits of the family competition tends to be replaced by mutual helpfulness,
and not only are the loneliness and horror of the struggle between isolated individuals banished,
but, what is vastly more, the family becomes the school of unselfishness and love. And what
has thus become true of the single family, and groups of nearly related families, is slowly
being realized in the larger units of communities and states. For, as families and communities
are just as really organisms as are the individual men and women, whose soundness depends upon
the healthy activity of every organ, so there is a survival, first of families, then of communities
and rival civilizations, in proportion to their unity and soundness in every part. For on account
of the close bonds of family and social life, and in connection with the development of articulate
speech, a new kind of heredity, so to speak, arises, of vast importance for both good and evil.
This mental and moral heredity, over-leaping all boundaries of blood and natural kinship, spreads
light and good influence or an immoral contagion through the community. And thus, in sheer
self-defence, society passes laws setting limits to the oppression of the poor and weak, lest,
degraded and brutalized, they become breeding centres of physical and moral disease in the
community. The positive lesson that the surest mode of self-defence is the elevation of these
submerged classes, we are just beginning to learn and apply.

By the ever-increasing acceleration of the development the gap between man and the lower animal
widens with wonderful rapidity. Of course it is only in man, and higher man, that these last
and highest results of mammalian structure appear. But that, far removed as they are, they
are the results of mammalian and vertebrate characteristics cannot, I think, be well denied.
And this is only one of innumerably possible illustrations of the fact that all our most highly
prized institutions are rooted far back in our ancestry, often ineradicably in the very organs
of our bodies. And thus evolution, which many view only from its radical side--and it has a
radical side--is really the conservative bulwark of all that is essentially worth possessing
in the past.

But every factor in man's development tends toward intellectual and spiritual development.
Man's vast increase of brain; his finely balanced body; his upright gait; setting his hands
free from the work of locomotion that they might become the skilful servants of the mind; finally,
articulate speech and social, and, above all, family, life, all tended in this same direction.

And this makes the great difficulty in assigning man his proper place in our systems of classification.
Our zoölogical classifications depend upon anatomical characteristics; and anatomically man
belongs among the order primates. But mental and moral values cannot be expressed in terms
of anatomy, any more than we can speak of an idea of so many horse-power, and hence worth three
or four ancestral dollars. Hence, while from the zoölogical standpoint man is a primate, and
while he is very probably descended from one of these, he has gradually risen above them mentally
and spiritually, so that he stands as far above them as they above the lowest worm. And this
leads us to the consideration of man, not merely as a mammal, but as "Anthropos," Homo sapiens,
although he often degenerates into "Simia destructor."

From what has just been said man's pre-eminence cannot consist in any anatomical characteristic,
even of the brain--much less of thumb, forefinger, hand, or foot. But man's mental and moral
characteristics (even though germs of these may be present in the animal), whether differing
in degree or kind from theirs, raise his life to a totally different plane. He lives in an
environment of which the lower animal is as unconscious and ignorant as we of a fourth dimension
of space. He has the knowledge of abstract truth and goodness, of certain standards outside
of mere appetite and desire, and feels and acknowledges, however dimly, the requirement and
the ability to conform his life to these standards. He alone can say "I ought," and answer
"I can and will." And hence man alone actually lives in an environment of the laws of reason,
responsibility, and personality. Whatever germs of these higher powers the animal possesses
are means to material ends, to the physical life of the animal. In man the long and slow evolution
has ended in revolution, the material and physical have been dethroned, and truth and goodness
reign supreme as ends in themselves.

But, you may object, this definition of man may be true ideally, certainly it is not true actually.
Where are the high ideals of truth and goodness in the savage? and are these the supreme ends
of even the average American of to-day? But allowing all weight to this objection, does it
not remain true that a being who never says "I ought," who acknowledges and manifests no responsibility,
to whom goodness does not appeal, and in whom these feelings cannot be awakened, is either
not yet or no longer man? But far more than this, if the character of the individual is to
be judged by his tendency more than his present condition, by the way in which he is going
more than his momentary position, is not the race to be judged and defined by a tendency, gradually
though very slowly becoming realized, and a goal, toward which it looks and which it is surely
attaining, rather than by its present realization? As we rise higher in the animal kingdom
the characteristics of the successive higher groups are more and more slow of attainment and
difficult of realization, just because of their grander possibilities. And this is true and
important above all in the case of man. His possibilities are beyond our powers of conception,
for, if you will, man is yet only larval man.

We have followed the sequence of functions to its culmination in a mind completely dominated
by righteousness and unselfishness, however far above our present attainments this goal may
be. We have found that all attempts to reverse this sequence end in death or degeneration.
Failure to advance, especially in higher forms, results in extinction or retrogression. We
cannot stand still. Each higher step is longer and more important than any preceding; each
last step is essential to life. Righteousness in the will is the last step essential to man's
progress. And if a sound mind in a sound body is important or necessary, a sound will, resolutely
set on right, is absolutely essential. Failure to attain this is ruin.

And man can to a great extent place himself so that his surroundings shall aid him to take
this last, essential, upward step. He does this by the choice of his associates. If he associates
himself with men who are tending upward, he will rise ever higher. If he choose the opposite
kind of associates he must sink into ever deeper degradation; he has thereby chosen death.
For his associates, once chosen, make him like themselves. And thus natural selection makes
for the survival of those men who resolutely choose life. And thoughtless or careless failure
to choose is ruin. The man has preferred degradation; it is only right that he should have
it to satiety.

