Your Adelphi went straightway off to Miss Martineau with a message.  Richard Milnes has another;
John Sterling is to have a third,--had certain other parties seen it first.  For the man Emerson
is become a person to be seen in these times.  I also gave a Morning-Chronicle Editor your
brave eulogy on Landor, with instructions that it were well worth publishing there, for Landor's
and others' sake.  Landor deserves more praise than he gets at present;  the world too, what
is far more, should hear of him oftener than it does.  A brave man after his kind,--though
considerably "flamed on from the Hell beneath."  He speaks notable things;  and at lowest and
worst has the faculty too of holding his peace.

The "Lectures on the Times" are even now in progress?  Good speed to the Speaker, to the Speech.
Your Country is luckier than most at this time;  it has still real Preaching;  the tongue of
man is not, whensoever it begins wagging, entirely sure to emit babblement, twaddlement, sincere--cant,
and other noises which awaken the passionate wish for silence!  That must alter everywhere
the human tongue is no wooden watchman's-rattle or other obsolete implement;  it continues
forever new and useful, nay indispensable.

As for me and my doings--Ay de mi!*

------- * The signature has been cut off. -------

LXXIII. Emerson to Carlyle

New York, 28 February, 1842

My Dear Friend,--I enclose a bill of exchange for forty-eight pounds sterling, payable by Baring
Brothers & Co. after sixty days from the 25th of February.

This Sum is part of a payment from Little and Brown on account of sales of your London French
Revolution and of Chartism.  As another part of their payment they asked me if they might not
draw on the estate of James Fraser for a balance due from his house to them, and pay you so.
I, perhaps unwisely, consented to make the proffer to you, with the distinct stipulation, however,
that if it should not prove perfectly agreeable to you, and exactly as available as another
form of money, you should instantly return it to me, and they shall pay me the amount, $41.57,
or L8 12s. 5d. in cash.  My mercantile friend, Abel Adams, did not admire my wisdom in accepting
this bill of Little and Brown;  so I told them I should probably bring it back to them, and
if there is a shadow of inconvenience in it you will send it back to me by the next steamer.
For they have no claims on us.  I decide not to enclose the Little and Brown bill in this sheet,--but
to let it accompany this letter in the same packet.

I grieve to hear that you have bought any of our wretched Southern Stocks.  In New England
all Southern and Southwestern debt is usually regarded as hopeless, unless the debtor is personally
known.  Massachusetts stock is in the best credit of any public stock.  Ward told me that it
would be safest for you to keep your Illinois stock, although he could say nothing very good of it.

Our city banks in Boston are in better credit than the banks in any other city here, yet one
in which a large part of my own property is invested has failed, for the two last half-years,
to pay any dividend, and I am a poor man until next April, when, I hope, it will not fail me
again.  If you wish to invest money here, my friend Abel Adams, who is the principal partner
in one of our best houses, Barnard, Adams, & Co., will know how to give you the best assistance
and action the case admits.  Lidian, the poor Lidian, moans at home by day and by night.  You
too will grieve for us, afar.  I believe I have two letters from you since I wrote last.  I
shall write again soon, for Bronson Alcott will probably go to London in about a month, and
him I shall surely send to you, hoping to atone by his great nature for many smaller one, that
have craved to see you.  Give me early advice of receiving these Bills of Exchange.

