An interesting bird, "Winged Fisher," as he has been happily called, is seen in places suited
to his habits, throughout temperate North America, particularly about islands and along the
seacoast. At Shelter Island, New York, they are exceedingly variable in the choice of a nesting
place. On Gardiner's Island they all build in trees at a distance varying from ten to seventy-five
feet from the ground; on Plum Island, where large numbers of them nest, many place their nests
on the ground, some being built up to a height of four or five feet while others are simply
a few sticks arranged in a circle, and the eggs laid on the bare sand. On Shelter Island they
build on the chimneys of houses, and a pair had a nest on the cross-bar of a telegraph pole.
Another pair had a nest on a large rock. These were made of coarse sticks and sea weed, anything
handy, such as bones, old shoes, straw, etc. A curious nest was found some years ago on the
coast of New Jersey. It contained three eggs, and securely imbedded in the loose material of
the Osprey's nest was a nest of the Purple Grackle, containing five eggs, while at the bottom
of the Hawk's nest was a thick, rotten limb, in which was a Tree Swallow's nest of seven eggs.

In the spring and early autumn this familiar eagle-like bird can be seen hovering over creek,
river, and sound. It is recognized by its popular name of Fish-Hawk. Following a school of
fish, it dashes from a considerable height to seize its prey with its stout claws. If the fish
is small it is at once swallowed, if it is large, (and the Osprey will occasionally secure
shad, blue fish, bass, etc., weighing five or six pounds,) the fish is carried to a convenient
bluff or tree and torn to bits. The Bald Eagle often robs him of the fish by seizing it, or
startling him so that he looses his hold.

The Osprey when fishing makes one of the most breezy, spirited pictures connected with the
feeding habits of any of our birds, as often there is a splashing and a struggle under water
when the fish grasped is too large or the great talons of the bird gets entangled. He is sometimes
carried under and drowned, and large fish have been washed ashore with these birds fastened
to them by the claws.

Mrs. Mabel Osgood Wright says: "I found an Osprey's nest in a crooked oak on Wakeman's Island
in late April, 1893. As I could not get close to the nest (the island is between a network
of small creeks, and the flood tides covered the marshes,) I at first thought it was a monstrous
crow's nest, but on returning the second week in May I saw a pair of Ospreys coming and going
to and fro from the nest. I hoped the birds might return another season, as the nest looked
as if it might have been used for two or three years, and was as lop-sided as a poorly made
haystack. The great August storm of the same year broke the tree, and the nest fell, making
quite a heap upon the ground. Among the debris were sticks of various sizes, dried reeds, two
bits of bamboo fishing rod, seaweeds, some old blue mosquito netting, and some rags of fish
net, also about half a bushel of salt hay in various stages of decomposition, and malodorous
dirt galore."

It is well known that Ospreys, if not disturbed, will continue indefinitely to heap rubbish
upon their nests till their bulk is very great. Like the Owls they can reverse the rear toe.

THE SORA RAIL.

Various are the names required to distinguish the little slate-colored Carolina Rail from its
brethren, Sora, Common Rail, and, on the Potomac river, Ortolan, being among them. He is found
throughout temperate North America, in the weedy swamps of the Atlantic states in great abundance,
in the Middle states, and in California. In Ohio he is a common summer resident, breeding in
the extensive swamps and wet meadows. The nest is a rude affair made of grass and weeds, placed
on the ground in a tussock of grass in a boggy tract of land, where there is a growth of briers,
etc., where he may skulk and hide in the wet grass to elude observation. The nest may often
be discovered at a distance by the appearance of the surrounding grass, the blades of which
are in many cases interwoven over the nest, apparently to shield the bird from the fierce rays
of the sun, which are felt with redoubled force on the marshes.

The Rails feed on both vegetable and animal food. During the months of September and October,
the weeds and wild oats swarm with them. They feed on the nutricious seeds, small snail shells,
worms and larvae of insects, which they extract from the mud. The habits of the Sora Rail,
its thin, compressed body, its aversion to take wing, and the dexterity with which it runs
or conceals itself among the grass and sedge, are exactly similar to those of the more celebrated
Virginia Rail.

The Sora frequents those parts of marshes preferably where fresh water springs rise through
the morass. Here it generally constructs its nest, "one of which," says an observer, "we had
the good fortune to discover. It was built in the bottom of a tuft of grass in the midst of
an almost impenetrable quagmire, and was composed altogether of old wet grass and rushes. The
eggs had been flooded out of the nest by the extraordinary rise of the tide in a violent northwest
storm, and lay scattered about the drift weed. The usual number of eggs is from six to ten.
They are of a dirty white or pale cream color, sprinkled with specks of reddish and pale purple,
most numerous near the great end."

When on the wing the Sora Rail flies in a straight line for a short distance with dangling
legs, and suddenly drops into the water.

The Rails have many foes, and many nests are robbed of their eggs by weasels, snakes, Blackbirds,
and Marsh Hawks, although the last cannot disturb them easily, as the Marsh Hawk searches for
its food while flying and a majority of the Rails' nests are covered over, making it hard to
distinguish them when the Hawk is above.

THE SORA RAIL.

This is one of our fresh-water marsh birds. I show you his picture taken where he spends most
of his time.

If it were not for the note calls, these tall reeds and grasses would keep from us the secret
of the Rail's home.

Like most birds, though, they must be heard, and so late in the afternoon you may hear their
clear note, ker-wee.

From all parts of the marsh you will hear their calls which they keep up long after darkness
has set in.

This Rail was just about to step out from the grasses to feed when the artist took his picture.
See him--head up, and tail up. He steps along carefully. He feels that it is risky to leave
his shelter and is ready at the first sign of danger, to dart back under cover.

There are very few fresh-water marshes where the Rail is not found.

When a boy, I loved to hear their note calls and would spend hours on the edge of a marsh near
my home.

It seemed to me there was no life among the reeds and cat-tails of the marsh, but when I threw
a stone among them, the Rails would always answer with their peeps or keeks.

And so I used to go down to the marsh with my pockets filled with stones. Not that I desired
or even expected to injure one of these birds. Far from it. It pleased me to hear their calls
from the reeds and grass that seemed deserted.

Those of you who live near wild-rice or wild-oat marshes have a good chance to become acquainted
with this Rail.

In the south these Rails are found keeping company with the Bobolinks or Reed-birds as they
are called down there.

THE KENTUCKY WARBLER.

Although this bird is called the Kentucky Warbler, we must not think he visits that state alone.

We find him all over eastern North America. And a beautiful bird he is.

As his name tells you he is one of a family of Warblers.

I told you somewhere else that the Finches are the largest family of birds. Next to them come
the Warblers.

Turn back now and see how many Warblers have been pictured so far.

See if you can tell what things group them as a family. Notice their bills and feet.

This bird is usually found in the dense woods, especially where there are streams of water.

He is a good singer, and his song is very different from that of any of the other Warblers.

I once watched one of these birds--olive-green above and yellow beneath. His mate was on a
nest near by and he was entertaining her with his song.

He kept it up over two hours, stopping only a few seconds between his songs. When I reached
the spot with my field-glass I was attracted by his peculiar song. I don't know how long he
had been singing. I stayed and spent two hours with him and he showed no signs of stopping.
He may be singing yet. I hope he is.

You see him here perched on a granite cliff. I suppose his nest is near by.

He makes it of twigs and rootlets, with several thicknesses of leaves. It is neatly lined with
fine rootlets and you will always find it on or near the ground.

In the September and October number of "BIRDS" you will find several Warblers and Finches.
Try to keep track of them and may be you can do as many others have done--tell the names of
new birds that come along by their pictures which you have seen in "BIRDS."

THE KENTUCKY WARBLER.

Between sixty and seventy warblers are described by Davie in his "Nests and Eggs of North American
Birds," and the Kentucky Warbler is recognized as one of the most beautiful of the number,
in its manners almost the counterpart of the Golden Crowned Thrush (soon to delight the eyes
of the readers of BIRDS), though it is altogether a more conspicuous bird, both on account
of its brilliant plumage and greater activity, the males being, during the season of nesting,
very pugnacious, continually chasing one another about the woods. It lives near the ground,
making its artfully concealed nest among the low herbage and feeding in the undergrowth, the
male singing from some old log or low bush, his song recalling that of the Cardinal, though
much weaker.

The ordinary note is a soft schip, somewhat like the common call of the Pewee. Considering
its great abundance, says an observer, the nest of this charmer is very difficult to find;
the female, he thought, must slyly leave the nest at the approach of an intruder, running beneath
the herbage until a considerable distance from the nest, when, joined by her mate, the pair
by their evident anxiety mislead the stranger as to its location.

It has been declared that no group of birds better deserves the epithet "pretty" than the Warblers.
Tanagers are splendid, Humming Birds refulgent, others brilliant, gaudy, or magnificent, but
Warblers alone are pretty.

The Warblers are migratory birds, the majority of them passing rapidly across the United States
in spring on the way to their northern nesting grounds, and in autumn to their winter residence
within the tropics. When the apple trees bloom they revel among the flowers, vieing in activity
and numbers with the bees; "now probing the recesses of a blossom for an insect, then darting
to another, where, poised daintily upon a slender twig, or suspended from it, they explore
hastily but carefully for another morsel. Every movement is the personification of nervous
activity, as if the time for their journey was short; as, indeed, appears to be the case, for
two or three days at most suffice some species in a single locality."

We recently saw a letter from a gentleman living at Lake Geneva, in which he referred with
enthusiasm to BIRDS, because it had enabled him to identify a bird which he had often seen
in the apple trees among the blossoms, particularly the present season, with which he was unacquainted
by name. It was the Orchard Oriole, and he was glad to have a directory of nature which would
enable him to add to his knowledge and correct errors of observation. The idea is a capitol
one, and the beautiful Kentucky Warbler, unknown to many who see it often, may be recognized
in the same way by residents of southern Indiana and Illinois, Kansas, some localities in Ohio,
particularly in the southwestern portion, in parts of New York and New Jersey, in the District
of Columbia, and in North Carolina. It has not heretofore been possible, even with the best
painted specimens of birds in the hand, to satisfactorily identify the pretty creatures, but
with BIRDS as a companion, which may readily be consulted, the student cannot be led into error.

THE RED BREASTED MERGANSER.

Why this duck should be called red-breasted is not at first apparent, as at a distance the
color can not be distinguished, but seen near, the reason is plain. It is a common bird in
the United States in winter, where it is found in suitable localities in the months of May
and June. It is also a resident of the far north, breeding abundantly in Newfoundland, Labrador,
Greenland, and Iceland. It is liberally supplied with names, as Red-Breasted Goosander or Sheldrake,
Garbill, Sea Robin, etc.

There is a difference in opinion as to the nesting habits of the Red-Breast, some authorities
claiming that, like the Wood Duck, the nest is placed in the cavity of a tree, others that
it is usually found on the ground among brushwood, surrounded with tall grasses and at a short
distance from water. Davie says that most generally it is concealed by a projecting rock or
other object, the nest being made of leaves and mosses, lined with feathers and down, which
are plucked from the breast of the bird. The observers are all probably correct, the bird adapting
itself to the situation.

Fish is the chief diet of the Merganser, for which reason its flesh is rank and unpalatable.
The Bird's appetite is insatiable, devouring its food in such quantities that it has frequently
to disgorge several times before it is able to rise from the water. This Duck can swallow fishes
six or seven inches in length, and will attempt to swallow those of a larger size, choking
in the effort.

The term Merganser is derived from the plan of the bird's bill, which is furnished with saw
teeth fitting into each other.

The eggs of the Red-Breasted Merganser vary from six to twelve, are oval in shape, and are
of a yellowish or reddish-drab, sometimes a dull buffy-green.

You may have seen pictures of this Duck, which frequently figures in dining rooms on the ornamental
panels of stuffed game birds, but none which could cause you to remember its life-like appearance.
You here see before you an actual Red-Breasted Merganser.

BIRD SONG--Continued from page 41.

with exactness, will deceive Mistress Pullet herself.

To carry the idea further, we will take the notes of some of the birds depicted in this number
of BIRDS. The Osprey, or Fish-Hawk, has been carefully observed, and his only discovered note
is a high, rapidly repeated whistle, very plaintive. Doubtless this noise is agreeable and
intelligible to his mate, but cannot be called a song, and has no significance to the listener.

The Vulture utters a low, hissing sound when disturbed. This is its only note. Not so with
the Bald Eagle, whose scream emulates the rage of the tempest, and implies courage, the quality
which associates him with patriotism and freedom. In the notes of the Partridge there is a
meaning recognizable by every one. After the nesting season, when the birds are in bevies,
their notes are changed to what sportsmen term "scatter calls." Not long after a bevy has been
flushed, and perhaps widely scattered, the members of the disunited family may be heard signaling
to one another in sweet minor calls of two and three notes, and in excitement, they utter low,
twittering notes.

Of the Sora Rails, Mr. Chapman says, "knowing their calls, you have only to pass a May or June
evening near a marsh to learn whether they inhabit it. If there, they will greet you late in
the afternoon with a clear whistled ker-wee, which soon comes from dozens of invisible birds
about you, and long after night has fallen, it continues like a springtime chorus of piping
hylas. Now and again it is interrupted by a high-voiced, rolling whinney, which, like a call
of alarm, is taken up and repeated by different birds all over the marsh."

Poor Red-Breasted Merganser! He has only one note, a croak. Perhaps it was of him that Bryant
was thinking when he wrote the stanzas "To a Water-Fowl."

"The sentiment of feeling awakened by any of the aquatic fowls is pre-eminently one of loneliness,"
says John Burroughs.

But the Evening Grosbeak, the Kentucky Warbler, the Skylark, land birds all, are singers. They
have music in their throats and in their souls, though of varying quality. The Grosbeak's note
is described by different observers as a shrill cheepy tee and a frog-like peep, while one
writer remarks that the males have a single metallic cry like the note of a trumpet, and the
females a loud chattering like the large Cherry Birds.

The Kentucky Warbler's song is entirely unlike that of any other Warbler, and is a loud, clearly
whistled performance of five, six, or seven notes, turdle, turdle, turdle, resembling in tone
some of the calls of the Carolina Wren. He is so persistent in his singing, however, that the
Red-Breasted Merganser's simple croak would sometimes be preferable to it.

THE YELLOW LEGS.

Yellow Legs, or Lesser Tell tale sometimes called Yellow-leg Snipe, and Little Cucu, inhabits
the whole of North America, nesting in the cold temperate and subarctic districts of the northern
continent, migrating south in winter to Argentine and Chili. It is much rarer in the western
than eastern province of North America, and is only accidental in Europe. It is one of the
wading birds, its food consisting of larvae of insects, small shell fish and the like.

The nest of the Lesser Yellow Shanks, which it is sometimes called, is a mere depression in
the ground, without any lining. Sometimes, however, it is placed at the foot of a bush, with
a scanty lining of withered leaves. Four eggs of light drab, buffy or cream color, sometimes
of light brown, are laid, and the breast of the female is found to be bare of feathers when
engaged in rearing the young. The Lesser Yellow legs breeds in central Ohio and Illinois, where
it is a regular summer resident, arriving about the middle of April, the larger portion of
flocks passing north early in May and returning about the first of September to remain until
the last of October.

A nest of this species of Snipe was found situated in a slight depression at the base of a
small hillock near the border of a prairie slough near Evanston, Illinois, and was made of
grass stems and blades. The color of the eggs in this instance was a deep grayish white, three
of which were marked with spots of dark brown, and the fourth egg with spots and well defined
blotches of a considerably lighter shade of the same.

THE SKYLARK.

This is not an American bird. I have allowed his picture to be taken and placed here because
so many of our English friends desired it.

The skylark is probably the most noted of birds in Europe. He is found in all of the countries
of Europe, but England seems to claim it. Here it stays during the summer, and goes south in
the winter.

Like our own Meadow Lark, he likes best to stay in the fields. Here you will find it when not
on the wing.

Early in the spring the Skylark begins his song, and he may be heard for most of the year.

Sometimes he sings while on the ground, but usually it is while he is soaring far above us.

Skylarks do not often seek the company of persons. There are some birds, you know, that seem
happy only when they are near people. Of course, they are somewhat shy, but as a rule they
prefer to be near people. While the Skylark does not seek to be near persons, yet it is not
afraid of them.

A gentleman, while riding through the country, was surprised to see a Skylark perch on his
saddle. When he tried to touch it, the Lark moved along on the horse's back, and finally dropped
under the horse's feet. Here it seemed to hide. The rider, looking up, saw a hawk flying about.
This explained the cause of the skylark's strange actions.

A pair of these Larks had built their nest in a meadow. When the time came for mowing the grass,
the little ones were not large enough to leave the nest. The mother bird laid herself flat
on the ground, with her wings spread out. The father bird took one of the little ones from
the nest and placed it on the mother's back. She flew away, took the baby bird to a safe place,
and came back for another.

This time the father took his turn. In this way they carried the little ones to a safe place
before the mowers came.

Like our Meadow Lark, the Skylark builds her nest on the ground--never in bushes or trees.
Usually it is built in a hole below the surface of the ground. It is for this reason that it
is hard to find.

Then, too, the color of the nest is much like that of the ground.

Four or five eggs are usually laid, and in two weeks the little larks crack the shells, and
come into the world crying for worms and bugs.

THE SKYLARK.

The English Skylark has been more celebrated in poetry than any other song-bird. Shelley's
famous poem is too long to quote and too symmetrical to present in fragmentary form. It is
almost as musical as the sweet singer itself.

"By the first streak of dawn," says one familiar with the Skylark, "he bounds from the dripping
herbage, and on fluttering wings mounts the air for a few feet ere giving forth his cheery
notes. Then upward, apparently without effort he sails, sometimes drifting far away as he ascends,
borne as it were by the ascending vapors, so easily he mounts the air. His notes are so pure
and sweet, and yet so loud and varied withal, that when they first disturb the air of early
morning all the other little feathered tenants of the fields and hedgerows seem irresistibly
compelled to join him in filling the air with melody. Upwards, ever upwards, he mounts, until
like a speck in the highest ether he appears motionless; yet still his notes are heard, lovely
in their faintness, now gradually growing louder and louder as he descends, until within a
few yards of the earth they cease, and he drops like a fragment hurled from above into the
herbage, or flits about it for a short distance ere alighting." The Lark sings just as richly
on the ground as when on quivering wing. When in song he is said to be a good guide to the
weather, for whenever we see him rise into the air, despite the gloomy looks of an overcast
sky, fine weather is invariably at hand.

The nest is most frequently in the grass fields, sometimes amongst the young corn, or in places
little frequented. It is made of dry grass and moss, and lined with fibrous roots and a little
horse hair. The eggs, usually four or five in number, are dull white, spotted, clouded, and
blotched over the entire surface with brownish green. The female Lark, says Dixon, like all
ground birds, is a very close sitter, remaining faithful to her charge. She regains her nest
by dropping to the ground a hundred yards or more from its concealment.

The food of the Lark is varied,--in spring and summer, insects and their larvae, and worms
and slugs, in autumn and winter, seeds.

