Strong turned sharply away from the laugh that followed, and went on with his work, while they
slowly dispersed. He worked on savagely with brows drawn together. "It isn't so much the existence
of scoundrels like Garvey that gets me," he was saying to himself, "as the way the whole crowd
of them take him." He stopped to read over the words he was correcting--they were editorial:

"Was ever folly greater than this of our community, in dropping everything else to run after
money. For what do you expect to do with it when you get it? Better eating, and drinking, and
the privilege of being toadied to by those who want to make something out of you--what more
can you get out of money, if you have never made anything of yourself? Just as a pig, if he
might take his choice whether he would be turned into a man or would be moved into a cosier
sty, with more unbounded swill, would doubtless choose the sty!"

"My broom against the ocean," he said; but he went on correcting doggedly.

And, not to conceal from you what was in reality the most significant fact about Will Strong--the
key to about everything he thought and did--he was mentally submitting this editorial, as he
had submitted every other he had written, to the test of the probable opinion of a young woman
he had not seen nor heard from for two years, but who nevertheless constituted to his mind
the chief motive for existence--if not the chief and sufficient explanation of the human race's
having been created at all. You must realize, before trying to understand his story, that Will
Strong was really a very romantic young man indeed, though he pretended to Green's Ferry that
he was not.

Outside the screen, the strips of sun through the western window and open door lengthened across
the meagre collection of dusty fonts of type, the small press, the piles of papers. The black-fingered,
red-haired boy setting type among them reflected that it must be nearly dinner-time, and turned
to see how far in the hot strips had crept--turned, and stood staring; for he met squarely
the inquiring look of a pair of clear eyes, and became aware of a lady in the door-way.

It is probable that Jim had never dreamed in his life of any other social distinction than
that between rich and poor, notorious and obscure, nor was he a lad of perceptions; yet he
knew at once that this was a very unusual sort of lady for Green's Ferry. If he had been a
man of the social world he would have known that she was a gentlewoman of notably high-bred
appearance. She glanced, not without dismay, about the shabby work-room, as if she felt herself
where she had no business to be. Nevertheless, she came forward frankly, and asked in the friendly
way of one whose station needs no asserting:

"Mr. Strong?--one of the school-board?--Is he here?"

"Yes'm." The boy made no motion, but stood blankly staring.

"May I see him, please?"

"Lady to see you, Mr. Strong," shouted Jim, standing still.

In the few seconds before Strong emerged, the lady stood her ground in the middle of the floor,
with some appearance of anxiety. She was certainly a very noticeable person, and came nearer
to warranting that strong word "beautiful" than falls often to the lot of woman. It was a matter
of outline more than color, however, for she had not much of that about her--brown hair, blue-gray
eyes, skin of a warm paleness. All this low coloring, however, was so perfect of its sort,
that it gave something the effect of a fine etching--a rich distinctness attained by shades,
not colors. Instead of being outshone by more brilliant-hued women, Miss Northrop had always
had the effect of making them look chromo-like. So, too, a certain nobility and self-forgetfulness
of manner made the more elaborate manners of others seem the crude device of inferiority. It
was a good deal due to her eyes; she had most wonderful eyes, and I doubt if any man or many
women ever met them in a full look without feeling a little stir of pulse--whether it was in
the lashes, or in the sweet straightforwardness of look, utterly devoid of coquetry, or in
the depth of the gray, or in what; certain it is that no one ever saw Miss Northrop without
talking of her beautiful eyes.

"A lady to see him?" The word in Green's Ferry defined only the sex. Some one with a notice
of a flock of sheep for sale, which she wanted to get in as a local; or with an ill-spelled
poem; or--by George, yes--that school-mistress. Lucky she had not met Garvey there--poor girl!
Strong laid his pencil down, and came out from behind the screen good-naturedly enough--and
stopped short. What a thing to happen to a man, that he should live and move and have his being
for a dozen years in the thought of one woman, should count a world worth living in because
she was somewhere on it, and a pitiful human race worth working for because they were her fellow-creatures--and
should come out from behind his screen, and see her before his eyes--on his dingy work-room
floor--out of her four thousand miles' distance!

They had been four years schoolmates in a New England High School. Will was a farmer's lad,
from an outlying, rocky village, who worked for his board while he went to school. He came
of an unschooled, hard-working, God-fearing yeoman race. Winifred could look up every line
of her descent, through vista of governors, college-presidents, and ministers, back to Colonial
aristocracy and gentry beyond sea. Her great-grandfathers had carried swords in Revolutionary
battles, where Will's had followed with muskets. Winifred herself was one of those flowers
into which excellent family trees break occasionally--flowers so lovely that no excellence
of the tree seems enough to account for them. If she had any core of aristocratic coldness,
it was so overlaid by a sweet humaneness, a frank generosity of impulse, that no one would
have known it. If she had been a man, to have a valet, she would have been a hero to him.

Even in the democracy of school, Will Strong knew well enough the difference between his shy
awkwardness and her pleasant frankness; and knew that though he could meet school requirements
about as well as she, yet his mental range was crude and narrow beside hers; and any one could
see that in the town where he was an unknown boy she was an important young lady. These things
would not have counted for much had not some mediæval follower of some exiled king dropped
down into the boy's temperament that passion of self-abasing loyalty that is rather an anachronism
in our democratic days. They had been on terms of friendliness rather than friendship in school,
but that was due more to his shyness than anything else. She had really given to him more opportunities
than to most of her schoolmates; she liked his integrity and earnestness.

He had looked to college as the natural door between his world and hers; after four years at
New Haven he might seek her acquaintance without audacity. To that end he had laboriously accumulated
money, and had even passed his matriculation, when his father's death made him indispensable
on the poor little farm. Since then he had doggedly plodded alone through the college curriculum,
but without finding in it the mysterious pass-word that he had expected into the intellectual
aristocracy. Some two years before, his mother's death and the growing up of younger brothers
had left him free to seek his fortune in California. At twenty-seven he had lost his fresh
look and boyish shyness; he looked older than he was, but he was really very youthful, and
believed in all sorts of abstractions beginning with capitals. His mental furniture, being
obtained from books, not people, was not quite in the style of the present decade, and he read
Carlyle and Emerson more than Herbert Spencer. His creed had, therefore, quite transcendentalism
enough to accommodate without incongruity his little private deification.

Once in every year or two, as opportunity took him near her home, he had called on her, and
had multiplied each call mightily by thinking of it before and after. He had also kept up a
stupid correspondence with a schoolmate who had lived in the same town with her, for the chance
of her name being mentioned. Within a couple of years, however, she had lost her father and
gone to relatives in New York, so he had lost exact knowledge even of her whereabouts.

She spoke before he had found his voice--without an instant's hesitation, indeed. "Oh, Will
Strong!" she cried, stepping quickly toward him and holding out her hand. "I hoped it was you!"

He took the offered hand, and said to himself that his own was consecrated by the touch to
clean deeds forever. He would not have known how to address her, but he followed her leading.

"It is Winifred Northrop!" he said. "What is it? Can I do something for you?"

"You are school-committee man, are you not?" Anxiety, relief, and trust mingled in her voice.

"Trustee--yes. Why," he cried, "it isn't possible that you are the lady!"

She laughed. "I suppose the lady must be I."

He did not smile. He even lost color with wrath. "Garvey has dared to play you some trick!--I
did not dream--" he went on, eagerly, "Garvey kept the letters in his hands, and bungled over
the name, so I did not once fairly catch it."

He turned back to his corner, and put the remaining bit of proof into his pocket. New heavens
and new earth had come into existence since the last pencil mark on it.

"Jim," he said, "I'm called off on school-business. You get as much of that set up as you can
before dinner, and then lock up; and I'll come down and make the corrections in the editorials
before I go to bed. Now--Winifred--if I may walk home with you, we'll get to the bottom of
Garvey's tricks. Villain!"

The epithet was so fervent, and so entirely without humorous intent, that Miss Northrop laughed
again as they walked out into the dull, hot September afternoon sun. The board sidewalk was
uneven and full of projecting nails and splinters, and she held her thin, blue-gray dress prettily
aside from them; Will noted the gesture with admiration as intense as unreasonable. It seemed
to him peculiarly admirable that she should draw her hat a little forward to shade her eyes,
and should take just the length of step that she did; the absolutely right step for a lady
was thenceforth settled; since then, he has insisted unreasonably upon a certain shade as the
only right thing in gray, as if he held in his own mind some positive standard beyond the realm
of variable taste.

The two or three business blocks--rows of slight frame-buildings, more of them saloons than
would seem possible--were very quiet; Green's Ferry is the shipping point of a wide stock-raising
district, and all its activity centres about the railroad station at stated times daily. The
justly aroused fellow-townsmen were all back under the awnings--leaning against the wall by
the post-office, sitting on boxes by the grocery; some indolently telling stories and chaffing;
some looking sleepily before them in absolute repose; some in various stages of inert drunkenness.
All stared curiously at young Strong and the strange lady, and prepared to talk them over afterward,
but no one addressed him.

They turned aside soon into a broad cross street with no sidewalk, where the coarse dust was
in places ankle deep. Behind them, beyond the main street, a few groups of yellowing cottonwoods
on bare banks of reddish clay marked the course of the Sacramento; before them the street faded
into a limitless expanse of gravel, thinly dotted in the distance with dull green oaks, and
bounded by long knolls, like wrinkles in the plain, dark with oaks against the smoky sky of
September--a sky dull blue above, dull gray near the horizon.

Along either side of the street the flimsy wooden houses were set back, each in its yard, and
surrounded by oleanders; sometimes there would be a few parched roses, a trellis of Madeira-vine,
a patch of carefully nursed grass, often a row of China trees, whose fallen black seeds stippled
the dust--but always the great rosy clumps of oleanders, glorying in the heat and drought.
Every evening after dinner the owners come out, and stand watering these gardens with hose
and sprinkler, till all along the street there is a murmur like rain and a smell of damp earth,
and here and there through the warm twilight a glimpse of the white sprays of water; while
the families sit on the porches and doorstep, and gossip and laugh. At this hour, however,
the little gardens and splendid oleanders lay hot and deserted in the dusty afternoon.

"I haven't till now had time to spare from being anxious to be interested," Miss Northrop said.
"I was rather panic-stricken this morning, and things were awful, instead of interesting, in
proportion to their newness."

This bit of pathos stiffened Will's manner with the awkwardness of over-feeling, as he asked:
"Now, what can I do for you--Winifred?"

The awkwardness made him more like the school-boy Will; and then, a familiar face four thousand
miles from home seems more familiar than it really is. Miss Northrop answered confidingly:
"I will tell you all about it, and then you will know what to do. I wrote to Judge Garvey--some
one referred me to him at Sacramento--and asked if I might teach the school. He wrote back
that I might, fixed the day, and directed me to a boarding-place that he had engaged for me.
So I came by yesterday evening's train, and sent word that I was here. This morning he called
and told me--with most oppressive civility--that as I had not answered his last letter, the
place had been given to some one else. He said 'professional etiquette' here demands an answer
in such a case, and failure to answer is equivalent to a withdrawal of the application."

"He lied," said Will, parenthetically, walking along with his eyes on the ground; she, on the
contrary, looked at him often, with frank directness.

"He did not impress me," she said, "as the soul of candor. I said as little as possible to
him, but when he was gone I asked about the rest of the committee, and as soon as I heard your
name I hoped it was you; I knew you were somewhere in California. This afternoon I received
his letter written to prevent my coming. It had followed me up here by the same train that
I came on." She held the letter in her hand, and Will quietly took it and kept it. "I would
not raise any controversy about such a thing," she went on, "if I had any idea in the world
where else to go or what to do." Her voice sharpened a little again, with a note of pathos.

Will did not know how to answer without seeming to question or comment, so there came a pause;
then he said:

"This Coakley was an electioneering agent of Garvey's, and doesn't know enough to teach babies.
He seems to have turned up suddenly wanting help, and the Judge is willing enough to keep him
on hand and under obligations until next election."

Miss Northrop stopped short and looked at him with brows a little raised, and her bearing became
impalpably more distant.

"But I cannot enter into contest with--these men for permission to teach school here," she said.

She was right, in her quick feeling that Will Strong's training could not have made work and
discomfort and contact with vulgarity seem outside the sphere of women. If it had been one
of his own sisters he would have said: "Oh, well, we have to take the world as we find it.
Brace up, little girl; I'll put you safe through, and you'll find it's not so bad, after all."

But what he said to Winifred Northrop was: "It is outrageous! Such brutes as Garvey have no
business to look at a lady! If you really prefer not to take the school," he went on, with
some embarrassment, "I hope you will call on me to help you in any other way; but if you want
the school you shall have it, and no annoyance with it that I can help."

Miss Northrop repented that she had repented her confidence. "I remembered that you were kind
of old, Will"--and her manner was irresistibly winning when she said such a thing--"but you
are so very kind now that you make me ashamed. I only meant to ask you what I must do. Yes,
I must take this position if I can, for I have no alternative."

"There is nothing for you to do," he said. "It is my place, as an officer of the school, to
see that its rightful teacher is not defrauded."

"So it is," she said, relieved. "But I am none the less grateful."

"It is a pleasure to me to be able to do anything for you," he said, gravely, somewhat stiffly--from
his tone you would not have suspected much more truth than usual in the formula.

She only said: "You are very kind," and then he lifted his hat, and left her at Mrs. Stutt's gate.

He deliberately and literally believed, as he walked down the street--directly to Green's--that
he was the happiest man in the world. For that matter, it is not impossible that he was. He
was absolutely innocent of conscious hyperbole in saying, "It would be worth a life-time of
trouble only to have seen her; and I know her and am able to do her a service!"

He scored one advantage in having seen Miss Northrop early; he saw Green before Garvey had
talked with him. The report of the quarrel had by no means failed to reach "The American Eagle,"
and when Strong came in Uncle Billy Green was just expressing himself with regard to Coakley:

"Of course the Judge'll provide for his man when he gets a chance. That's where he's sharp.
And if Coakley is smart enough to suit Judge Garvey, he's smart enough to teach my children--that's
what I say."

A private audience with him would have been merely postponing the hour of general discussion,
so Strong made a brief exposition of his case--gently enough, but with considerable force--then
and there, displaying the letter he carried by way of proof. He hardly expected to elicit anything
but the usual laugh and comment on the Judge's smartness. But there was a marked seriousness
of tone in the remarks when he ended.

"Well, that is pretty rough."

"Yes, sir, that's going too far. The Judge ought to know where to stop. I don't stand by no
man when it comes to a shabby trick on an unprotected school-marm."

"A real lady, too--I could see that when she went by with you, Strong."

Even Green said, uneasily, "No, I shouldn't think the Judge ought to do that, quite."

It was evident that Green's Ferry drew its lines as much as any other town. The moral support
it offered Strong was mainly negative, however, and Green, after several alternate conversations
with his two fellow trustees during this Saturday evening, went off early Sunday morning to
visit his married daughter at the old Meeker place, leaving word that they must fix it between
them. Judge Garvey closed the somewhat stormy conference of Saturday evening with a promise
to break down Miss Northrop's school in a week, and Strong's paper in a month. "Do you flatter
yourself I should not have had your contemptible sheet in powder under my feet, sir, before
this, if I had thought it worth the attention?" Nevertheless, as there was nothing on which
the Judge prided himself more than on his invariable civility to ladies ("the courtly Judge"
was his favorite phrase in writing up a local notice of any affair at which he had been present),
Strong, having possession of the school-house key, was able to put Miss Northrop into possession
on Monday morning without opposition. The Judge even visited her during the day and addressed
the school with extreme suavity.

He was, however, very seriously affronted, and had not passed his Sunday without diligent preparation
among parents and children to make Miss Northrop's position untenable. It would have been no
difficult task, either, but for an altogether unprecedented obstacle--a factor that he had
not dreamed of in his calculations, and that Strong himself had underestimated. The children,
who had gone to school Monday morning primed for mutiny, surrendered their hearts in a body
to Miss Northrop by night; three days later, Uncle Billy Green's niece, who taught the primary
school, gave in adoring allegiance; by the end of the week everybody who had seen her was her
advocate. It was certainly an unprecedented thing that Judge Garvey's best exertions should
come to naught, because of a woman's way of smiling and speaking; but Miss Northrop's tenure
of the school was secure. It was not entirely speech and smile, however. Miss Northrop was
interested in everything, and consequently had common ground with everybody; and she met each
one on that ground, not so much ignoring as temporarily forgetting differences.

The year wore on from gray to gray; the parching north wind poured down the plain and darkened
the air with gritty dust; the sky, though cloudless, grew murkier every day. Then the wind
shifted to the south, and the sky grew darker yet with surging heaps of clouds, and at last
down came the late November rain; and next morning Miss Northrop could see, like a miraculous
creation of the night, up and down every east-and-west street, a range of azure mountains along
either horizon, snow-crowned, clear-cut, against an exquisite blue sky. Every two or three
weeks the surge of clouds would come rolling up with the south wind, and the rain would come
down in torrents for days, till the Sacramento, yellow with mud, roared level with its banks;
and then the storm would break away, and there would be a week or two of blue sky and brilliant
air and green earth.

