"The voracious habits of the rook, and the vast increase of these birds of late years in certain
parts of Essex, has been productive of great mischief, especially in the vicinity of Writtle
and of Waltham. Since February last, notwithstanding a vigilant watch, the rooks have stolen
sets of potatoes from a considerable breadth of ground at Widford Hall. On the same farm, during
the sowing of a field of 16 acres with peas, the number of rooks seen at one time on its surface
has been estimated at 1,000, which is accounted for by there being a preserve near, which,
at a moderate computation, contains 1,000 nests. But the damage done by rooks at Navestock
and Kelvedon Hatch, and their vicinities, within a small circle, has been estimated at £2,000.
annually. Many farmers pay from 8s. to 10s. per week, to preserve their seed and plants by
watching; but notwithstanding such precautions, acre after acre of beans, when in leaf and
clear from the soil, have been pulled up, and the crop lost. The late hurricane proved some
interruption to their breeding; and particularly at the estate of Lord Waldegrave, at Navestock,
where the young ones were thrown from their nests, and were found under trees in myriads; the
very nests blown down, it is said, would have furnished the poor with fuel for a short period."

The writer attributes this alarming increase of rooks to "a desire on the part of gentlemen
to cause them to be preserved with the same watchfulness they do their game." The most effectual
means of deterring the rook from their depredations, is, he says, "to obtain several of these
birds at a period of the year when they can be more easily taken; then cut them open, and preserve
them by salt. In the spring, during the seed time, these rooks are to be fastened down to the
ground with their wings spread, and their mouths extended by a pebble, as if in great torture.
This plan has been found so effectual, that even in the vicinity of large preserves, the fields
where the dead birds have been so placed, have not been visited by a single rook."

The scarcity of the rook in France, and the antipathy which the French have to that bird is
thus accounted for:--

"The fact has been often related by a very respectable Catholic Priest, who resided many years
at Chipping-hill, in Witham, that such was the arbitrary conduct of the owners of abbeys and
monasteries in France, in preserving and cultivating the rook and the pigeon, that they increased
to such numbers as to become so great a pest, as to destroy the seed when sown, and the young
plants as soon as they appeared above the ground; insomuch, that the farmer, despairing of
a reward for his labour, besides the loss of his seed, the fields were left barren, and the
supply of bread corn was, in consequence, insufficient to meet the necessities of so rapidly
increasing a people. The father of the gentleman to whom we have alluded, was, for this offence,
one of the first victims to his imprudence. The revolutionary mob proceeded to his residence,
from whence they took him, and hung his body upon a gibbet; they next proceeded to destroy
the rooks and pigeons which he had cultivated in great numbers, and strived to preserve with
the same tenacity as others do in this country. We are told by the son of this martyr to his
own folly, that the mob continued to shoot the birds amidst the loudest acclamations, and that
they exulted in the idea that in each victim they witnessed the fall of an aristocrat."

       *       *       *       *       *

THE BANANA TREE.

The amount and rapidity of produce of this plant probably exceed that of any other in the known
world. In eight or nine months after the sucker has been planted, clusters of fruit are formed;
and in about two months more they may be gathered. The stem is then cut down, and a fresh plant,
about two-thirds of the height of the parent stem, succeeds, and bears fruit in about three
months more. The only care necessary is to dig once or twice a year round the roots. According
to our author, on 1,076 square feet, from 30 to 40 banana trees may be planted in Mexico, which
will yield in the space of the year 4,414 lbs. avoirdupois of fruit; while the same space would
yield only 33 lbs. avoirdupois of wheat, and 99 of potatoes. The immediate effect of this facility
of supplying the wants of nature is, that the man who can, by labouring two days in the week,
maintain himself and family, will devote the remaining five to idleness or dissipation. The
same regions that produce the banana, also yield the two species of manioc, the bitter and
the sweet: both of which appear to have been cultivated before the conquest.--Foreign Quarterly
Review.

       *       *       *       *       *

INDIAN CORN.

The most valuable article in South American agriculture, is unquestionably the maize, or Indian
corn, which is cultivated with nearly uniform success in every part of the republic. It appears
to be a true American grain, notwithstanding many crude conjectures to the contrary. Sometimes
it has been known to yield, in hot and humid regions, 800 fold; fertile lands return from 300
to 400; and a return of 130 to 150 fold is considered bad--the least fertile soils giving 60
to 80. The maize forms the great bulk of food of the inhabitants, as well as of the domestic
animals; hence the dreadful consequences of a failure of this crop. It is eaten either in the
form of unfermented bread or tortillas (a sort of bannock, as it is called in Scotland;) and,
reduced to flour, is mingled with water, forming either atolle or various kinds of chicha.
Maize will yield, in very favourable situations, two or three crops per year; though it is
but seldom that more than one is gathered.

The introduction of wheat is said to have been owing to the accidental discovery, by a negro
slave of Cortez, of three or four grains, among some rice which had been issued to the soldiers.
About the year 1530, these grains were sown; and from this insignificant source has flowed
all the enormous produce of the upper lands of Mexico. Water is the only element necessary
to ensure success to the Mexican wheat grower; but it is very difficult to attain this--and
irrigation affords the most steady supply.

Ibid.

       *       *       *       *       *

THE AGAVE AMERICANA.

On Maguey, is an object of great value in the table land of the interior of Mexico; from this
plant is obtained the favourite liquor, the pulque. At the moment of efflorescence, the flower
stalk is extirpated, and the juice destined to form the fruit flows into the cavity thus produced,
and is taken out two or three times a day for four or five months; each day's produce is fermented
for ten or fifteen days; after which the pulque is fit to drink, and before it has travelled
in skins, it is a very pleasant, refreshing liquor, to which the Mexicans ascribe as many good
qualities as the Highlander does to whiskey. The stems of the maguey can supply the place of
hemp, and may be converted into paper. The prickles too are used as pins by the Indians.--Ibid.

       *       *       *       *       *

THE ANECDOTE GALLERY.

       *       *       *       *       *

DOCTOR PARR.

Concluded from page 334.

Parr was evidently fond of living in troubled waters; accordingly, on his removal to Colchester,
he got into a quarrel with the trustees of the school on the subject of a lease. He printed
a pamphlet about it, which he never published; restrained perhaps by the remarks of Sir W.
Jones, who constantly noted the pages submitted to him, with "too violent," "too strong;" and
probably thought the whole affair a battle of kites and crows, which Parr had swelled into
importance; or, it might be, he suppressed it, influenced by the prospect of succeeding to
Norwich school, for which he was now a candidate, and by the shrewd observation of Dr. Foster,
"that Norwich might be touched by a fellow feeling for Colchester; and the crape-makers of
the one place sympathize with the bag-makers of the other." If the latter consideration weighed
with him, it was the first and last time that any such consideration did, Parr being apparently
of the opinion of John Wesley, that there could be no fitter subject for a Christian man's
prayers, than that he might be delivered from what the world calls "prudence." However it happened,
the pamphlet was withheld, and Parr was elected to the school at Norwich.

At Norwich, Parr ventured on his first publications, and obtained his first preferment. The
publications consisted of a sermon on "The Truth of Christianity," "A Discourse on Education,"
and "A Discourse on the Late Fast;" the last of which opens with a mistake singular in Parr,
who confounds the sedition of Judas Gaulonitis, mentioned in Josephus, (Antiq. xviii. 1. 1.)
with that under Pilate, mentioned in St. Luke, (xiii. 1, 2, 3.); whereas the former probably
preceded the latter by twenty years, or nearly. The preferment which he gained was the living
of Asterby, presented to him by Lady Jane Trafford, the mother of one of his pupils; which,
in 1783, he exchanged for the perpetual curacy of Hatton, in Warwickshire, the same lady being
still his patron neither was of much value. Lord Dartmouth, whose sons had also been under
his care, endeavoured to procure something for him from Lord Thurlow, but the chancellor is
reported to have said "No," with an oath. The great and good Bishop Lowth, however, at the
request of the same nobleman, gave him a prebend in St. Paul's, which, though a trifle at the
time, eventually became, on the expiration of leases, a source of affluence to Parr in his
old age. How far he was from such a condition at this period of his life, is seen by the following
incident given by Mr. Field. The doctor was one day in this gentleman's library, when his eye
was caught by the title of "Stephens' Greek Thesaurus." Suddenly turning about and striking
vehemently the arm of Mr. Field, whom he addressed in a manner very usual with him; he said,
"Ah! my friend, my friend, may you never be forced, as I was at Norwich, to sell that work,
to me so precious, from absolute and urgent necessity."

But we must on with the Doctor in his career. In 1785, for some reason unknown to his biographer,
Parr resigned the school at Norwich, and in the year following went to reside at Hatton. "I
have an excellent house, (he writes to a friend,) good neighbours, and a Poor, ignorant, dissolute,
insolent, and ungrateful, beyond all example. I like Warwickshire very much. I have made great
regulations, viz. bells chime three times as long; Athanasian creed; communion service at the
altar; swearing act; children catechized first Sunday in the month; private baptisms discouraged;
public performed after second lesson; recovered a 100l. a year left the poor, with interest
amounting to 115l., all of which I am to put out, and settle a trust in the spring; examining
all the charities."

