The Queen had special guests with her on this occasion--her brother the Prince of Leiningen,
the much-loved uncle of the royal children; and the favourite cousin of the circle, the young
Duchesse de Nemours, with her husband. The Queen and Prince Albert, accompanied by their visitors,
the various members of the English royal family present at the ball, and the different suites,
passed into the ball-room at half- past ten. The first dance, the graceful march of the German
polonaise, was danced by all, young and old, the bands striking up simultaneously, and the
dance extending through the whole of the State apartments, the Queen leading the way, preceded
by the Vice- Chamberlain, the Comptroller and Treasurer of the Household, and two gentlemen
ushers to clear a space for her. After the polonaise the company passed slowly before the Queen.
A comical incident occurred in this part of the programme through the innocent mistake of an
old infantry officer, who in his progress lifted his peaked hat and gave the Queen a military
salute, as he walked by.

Then her Majesty left the ball-room and repaired to the throne-room, where the first minuet
was formed. It is only necessary to recall that most courtly of slow and graceful dances to
judge how well suited it was for this ball. The Queen danced with her cousin, Prince George
of Cambridge. Her Majesty wore a wonderful dress of cloth of gold and cloth of silver, with
daisies and poppies worked in silks, and shaded the natural colours; trimmings and ruffles
of exquisite old lace, stomacher covered with old lace and jewels, the sacque set off with
scarlet ribands, the fair hair powdered under a tiara and crown of diamonds, dainty white satin
shoes with scarlet rosettes--a diamond in each rosette, the Order of the Garter on the arm,
the Star and Riband of the Order.

Prince George was less fortunate in the regimentals of a cavalry officer a century back; for,
as it happened, while the costume of 1740-50 was favourable to women and to civilians, it was
trying to military men.

Prince Albert danced with the Duchesse de Nemours. These two had been early playmates who never,
even in later and sadder days, got together without growing merry over the stories and jokes
of their childhood in Coburg. The Prince must have been one of the most graceful figures there,
in a crimson velvet coat edged with gold and lined with white satin, on the left breast the
splendid Star of the Order of the Garter, shoulder-strap and sword inlaid with diamonds, white
satin waistcoat brocaded with gold, breeches of crimson velvet with gold buttons, shoes of
black kid with red heels and diamond buckles, three- cornered hat trimmed with gold lace, edged
with white ostrich feathers, a magnificent loop of diamonds, and the black cockade of the Georges,
not the white cockade of the Jameses.

His golden-haired partner was in a tastefully gay and fantastic as well as splendid costume
of rose-coloured Chinese damask, with gold blonde and pearls, over a petticoat of point d'Alencon,
with a deep border of silver and silver rosettes. The stomacher of brilliants and pearls, on
the left shoulder a nosegay with diamond wheat-ears interspersed, shoes of purple satin with
fleurs-de-lys embroidered in gold and diamonds, as became a daughter of France, and gloves
embroidered with similar fleurs-de-lys.

There were many gay and gallant figures and fair faces in that minuet of minuets. Prince Edward
of Saxe-Weimar was meant to dance with the young Marchioness of Douro, but she by some strange
chance came too late for the honour, and her place was supplied by another young matron and
beauty, Lady Jocelyn, formerly Lady Fanny Cowper. Prince Leiningen, who wore a white suit faced
with blue and a buff waistcoat edged with silver lace, danced with Lady Mount-Edgcumbe. The
Duke of Beaufort once more disputed with the Earl of Wilton the distinction of being the finest
gentleman present.

The Queen danced in four minuets, standing up in the second with Prince Albert. This minuet
also included several of the most beautiful women of the time and of the Court; notably Lady
Seymour, one of the Sheridan sisters, the Queen of Beauty at the Eglinton tournament; and Lady
Canning.

After the second minuet the Queen and all the company returned to the ball-room, where two
other minuets, those of Lady Jersey and Lady Chesterfield, were danced, and between them was
given Lady Breadalbane's strathspey. There was such crowding to see these dances that the Lord
Chamberlain had difficulty in making room for them. While Musard furnished special music for
the minuets and quadrilles, adapting it in one case from airs of the '45, the Queen's piper,
Mackay, gave forth, for the benefit of the strathspey and reel- dancers, the stirring strains
of "Miss Drummond of Perth," "Tullochgorum," and "The Marquis of Huntly's Highland Fling,"
which must have rung with wild glee through the halls of kings.

Lady Chesterfield's minuet was the last dance before supper, served with royal splendour in
the dining-room, to which the Queen passed at twelve o'clock. After supper the Queen danced
in a quadrille and in the two next minuets. Her first partner was the Duc de Nemours, who wore
an old French infantry general's uniform--a coat of white cloth, the front covered with gold
embroidery, sleeves turned up with crimson velvet, waistcoat and breeches of crimson velvet,
stockings of crimson silk, and red-heeled shoes with diamond buckles. In the second minuet
her Majesty had her brother, the Prince of Leiningen, for her partner. The ball was ended,
according to a good old English fashion, by the quaint changing measure of "Sir Roger de Coverley,"
known in Scotland as "The Haymakers," in which the Queen had her husband for her partner. This
country-dance was danced in the picture gallery.

Let who would be the beauty at the Queen's ball, there was at least one poetess there in piquant
black and cerise, with cerise roses and priceless point a l'aiguille, Lady John Scott, who
had been the witty heiress, Miss Spottiswoode of Spottiswoode. She wrote to an old refrain
one of the most pathetic of modern Scotch ballads--

    Douglas, Douglas, tender and true

The beauty of the ball was the Marchioness of Douro, who not so long ago had been the beauty
of the season as Lady Elizabeth Hay, daughter of the Marquis of Tweeddale, when she caught
the fancy of the elder, son and heir of the Duke of Wellington. In this case beauty was not
unadorned, for the lovely Marchioness, [Footnote: Her likeness is familiar to many people in
an engraving from a well-known picture of the Duke of Wellington showing his daughter-in-law
the field of Waterloo] the Greek mould of whose head attracted the admiration of all judges,
was said to wear jewels to the value of sixty thousand pounds, while the superb point-lace
flounce to her white brocade must have been a source of pious horror to good Roman Catholics,
since it was believed to have belonged to the sacred vestments of a pope.

We have said that lace and jewels gave the distinguishing stamp to the ball--such lace!--point
d'Alencon, point de Bayeux, point de Venise, point a l'aiguille, Mechlin, Guipure, Valenciennes,
Chantilly, enough to have turned green with envy the soul of a cultured petit- maitre, an aesthetic
fop of the present day.

Some of the jewels, no less than the lace, were historical. The Marchioness of Westminster,
besides displaying sabots of point- lace, which had belonged to Caroline, queen of George II.,
wore the Nassuk and Arcot diamonds.

Miss Burdett-Coutts wore a lustrous diadem and necklace that had once graced the brow and throat
of poor Marie Antoinette, and had found their way at last into jewel-cases no longer royal,
owing their glittering contents to the wealth of a great city banker.

A word about the antiquated finery of the Iron Duke, with which the old soldier sought to please
his young mistress. It provoked a smile or two from the more frivolous as the grey, gaunt,
spindle-shanked old man stalked by, yet it was not without its pathetic side. The Duke wore
a scarlet coat, a tight fit, laced with gold, with splendid gold buttons and frogs, the brilliant
star of the Order of the Garter, and the Order of the Golden Fleece, a waistcoat of scarlet
cashmere covered with gold lace, breeches of scarlet kerseymere trimmed with gold lace; gold
buckles, white silk stockings, cocked hat laced with gold, sword studded with rose diamonds
and emeralds.

It is nearly forty years since these resplendent masquers trod the floors of Buckingham Palace,
and if the changes which time has brought about had been foreseen, if the veil which shrouds
the future had been lifted, what emotions would have been called forth!

Who could have borne to hear that the bright Queen and giver of the fete would pass the years
of her prime in the mournful shade of disconsolate widowhood? That the pale crown of a premature
death was hovering over the head of him who was the life of her life, the active promoter and
sustainer of all that was good and joyous in that great household, all that was great and happy
in the kingdom over which she ruled?

Who would have ventured to prophesy that of the royal kindred and cherished guests, the Prince
of Leiningen was to die a landless man, the Duc de Nemours to spend long years in exile, the
Duchesse to be cut down in the flower of her womanhood? Who would have guessed that this great
nobleman, the head of an ancient house, was to perish by a miserable accident in a foreign
hotel; that his sister, the wife of an unfortunate statesman, was to be dragged through the
mire of a divorce court; that the treasures of a princely home were to pass away from the race
that had accumulated them, under the strokes of an auctioneer's hammer? Who could have dreamt
that this fine intellect and loving heart would follow the lord of their destiny to Hades,
and wander there for evermore distracted, in the land of shadows, where there is no light of
the sun to show the way, no firm ground to stay the tottering feet and groping hands? As for
these two fair sisters in Watteau style of blue and pink, and green and pink taffetas, lace,
and pearls, and roses--surely the daintiest, most aristocratic shepherdesses ever beheld--one
of them would have lost her graceful equanimity, reddened with affront, and tingled to the
finger-tips with angry unbelief if she had been warned beforehand that she would be amongst
the last of the high-born, high-bred brides who would forfeit her birthright and her presence
at a Queen's Court by agreeing to be married at the hands of a blacksmith instead of a bishop,
before the rude hymeneal altar at Gretna.

But to-night there was no alarming interlude, like a herald of evil, to shake the nerves of
the company--nothing more unpropitious than the contretemps to an unlucky lady of being overcome
by the heat and seized with a fainting-fit, which caused her over-zealous supporters to remove
her luxuriant powdered wig in order to give her greater air and coolness, so that she was fain,
the moment she recovered, to hide her diminished head by a rapid discomfited retreat from what
remained of the revelry.

On the 21st of June the Queen and the Prince, with the Lords of the Admiralty, inspected the
fleet off Spithead. The royal yacht was attended by a crowd of yachts belonging to the various
squadrons, a throng of steamboats and countless small boats. The Queen visited and went over
the flagship--which was the St. Vincent--the Trafalgar, and the Albion. On her return to the
yacht she held a levee of all the captains of the fleet. A few days afterwards she reviewed
her fleet in brilliant, breezy weather. The royal yacht took up its position at Spithead, and
successive signals were given to the squadron to "Lower sail," "Make sail," "Shorten sail and
reef," and "Furl topgallant sails," all the manoeuvres--including the getting under way and
sailing in line to St. Helen's--being performed with the very perfection of nautical accuracy.
The review ended with the order, "Furl sails, put the life-lines on, and man yards," which
was done as only English sailors can accomplish the feat, while the royal yacht on its return
passed through the squadron amidst ringing cheers.

During the earlier part of the summer Sir John Franklin sailed with his ships, the Erebus and
Terror, in search of that North Pole which, since the days of Sir Hugh Montgomery, "a captain
tall," has been at once the goal and snare of many a gallant English sailor. The good ships
disappeared under the horizon, never to reach their haven. By slow degrees oblivion, more or
less profound, closed over the fate of officers and men, while, for lack of knowledge of their
life or death, the light of many a hearth was darkened, and faithful hearts sickened with hope
deferred and broke under the strain. As one instance, out of many, of the desolation which
the silent loss of the gallant expedition occasioned, sorrow descended heavily on one of the
happy Highland homes among which the Queen had dwelt the previous summer. Captain, afterwards
Lord James, Murray, brother of Lord Glenlyon, was married to Miss Fairholme, sister of one
of the picked men of whom the explorers were composed. When no tidings of him came, year after
year, from the land of mist and darkness, pining melancholy seized upon her and made her its prey.

In the month of July the King of the Netherlands, who, as Prince of Orange, had served on the
Duke of Wellington's staff at the close of the Peninsular War, came to England and took up
his quarters at Mivart's Hotel, the Queen being in the Isle of Wight, where he joined her.
Prince Albert met the King at Gosport and escorted him to Osborne. On his return to London
the King, who was already a general in the English army, received his appointment as field-marshal,
and reviewed the Household troops in Hyde Park. He paid a second visit to the Queen at Osborne
before he left Woolwich for Holland.

A curious accident happened when the Queen prorogued Parliament on the 9th of August. The Duke
of Argyle, an elderly man, was carrying the crown on a velvet cushion, when, in walking backwards
before the Queen, he appeared to forget the two steps, leading from the platform on which the
throne stands to the floor, and stumbled, the crown slipping from the cushion and falling to
the ground, with the loss of some diamonds. The Queen expressed her concern for the Duke instead
of for the crown; but on her departure the keeper of the House of Lords appeared in front of
the throne, and prevented too near an approach to it, with the chance of further damage to
the dropped jewels. The misadventure was naturally the subject of a good deal of private conversation
in the House.

CHAPTER III.

THE QUEEN'S FIRST VISIT TO GERMANY.

On the evening of the day that she prorogued Parliament, the Queen and the Prince with the
Earl of Aberdeen as the minister in attendance, started from Buckingham Palace that she might
pay her first visit to Germany. Surely none of all the new places she had visited within the
last few years could have been of such surpassing interest to the traveller. It was her mother's
country as well as her husband's, the home of her brother and sister, the place of which she
must have heard, with which she must have had the kindliest associations from her earliest years.

The first stage of the journey--in stormy weather, unfortunately--was to Antwerp, where the
party did not land till the following day, when they proceeded to Malines, where they were
met by King Leopold and Queen Louise, who parted from their royal niece at Verviers. On the
Prussian frontier Lord Westmoreland, the English ambassador, and Baron Bunsen met her Majesty.
"To hear the people speak German," she wrote in her Journal, "to see the German soldiers, seemed
to me so singular. I overheard people saying that I looked very English."

At Aix-la-Chapelle the King and Prince of Prussia received the visitors and accompanied them
to Cologne. The ancient dirty town of the Three Kings gave the strangers an enthusiastic reception.
The burghers even did their best to get rid of the unsavoury odours which distinguish the town
of sweet essences, by pouring eau-de-Cologne on the roadways.

At Bruhl the Queen and the Prince were taken to the palace, where they found the Queen of Prussia,
whose hostility to English and devotion to Russian interests when Lord Bloomfield represented
the English Government at Berlin, are recorded by Lady Bloomfield. With the Queen was her sister-in-law,
the Princess of Prussia, and the Court. The party went into one of the salons to hear the famous
tatoo played by four hundred musicians, in the middle of an illumination by means of torches
and coloured lamps. The Queen was reminded that she was in a land of music by hearing at a
concert, in which sixty regimental bands assisted, "God save the Queen" better played than
she had ever heard it before. "We felt so strange to be in Germany at last," repeats her Majesty,
dwelling on the pleasant sensation, "at Bruhl, which Albert said he used to go and visit from
Bonn."

The next day the visitors went to Bonn, accompanied by the King and Queen of Prussia. At the
house of Prince Furstenberg many professors who had known Prince Albert were presented to the
Queen, "which interested me very much," the happy wife says simply. "They were greatly delighted
to see Albert and pleased to see me.... I felt as if I knew them all from Albert having told
me so much about them." The experience is known to many a bride whose husband takes her proudly
to his old alma mater.

The day was made yet more memorable by the unveiling of a statue to Beethoven. But, by an unlucky
contretemps, the royal party on the balcony found the back of the statue presented to their
gaze. The Freischutzen fired a feu-de-joie. A chorale was sung. The people cheered and the
band played a Dusch--such a flourish of trumpets as is given in Germany when a health is drunk.

The travellers then went to the Prince's "former little house." The Queen writes, "It was such
a pleasure for me to be able to see this house. We went all over it, and it is just as it was,
in no way altered.... We went into the little bower in the garden, from which you have a beautiful
view of the Kreuzberg--a convent situated on the top of a hill. The Siebengebirge (seven mountains)
you also see, but the view of them is a good deal built up."

This visiting together the ground once so familiar to the Prince formed an era in two lives.
It was the fulfilment of a beautiful, brilliant expectation which had been half dim and vague
when the ardent lad was a quiet, diligent student, living simply, almost frugally, like the
other students at the university on the Rhine, and his little cousin across the German Ocean,
from whom he had parted in the homely red-brick palace of Kensington, had been proclaimed Queen
of a great country. The prospect of their union was still very uncertain in those days, and
yet it must sometimes have crossed his mind as he built air-castles in the middle of his reading;
or strolled with a comrade along those old-fashioned streets, among their population of "wild-looking
students," with long fair hair, pipes between their lips, and the scars of many a sword-duel
on forehead and cheek; or penetrated into the country, where the brown peasant women, "with
curious caps and handkerchiefs," came bearing their burden of sticks from the forest, like
figures in old fairy tales. He must have told himself that the time might come when something
like the transformation of a fairy-tale would be effected on his account; the plain living
and high-thinking and college discipline of Bonn be exchanged for the dignity and influence
of an English sovereign's consort. Then, perhaps, he would bring his bride to the dear old
"fatherland," and show her where he had dreamt about her among his books.

At the banquet in the afternoon the accomplished King gave the Queen's health in a speech fit
for a poet. He referred to a word sweet alike to British and German hearts. Thirty years before
it had echoed on the heights of Waterloo from British and German tongues, after days of hot
and desperate fighting, to mark the glorious triumph of their brotherhood in arms. "Now it
resounds on the banks of our fair Rhine, amidst the blessings of that peace which was the hallowed
fruit of the great conflict. That word is 'Victoria.' Gentlemen, drink to the health of her
Majesty the Queen of the United Kingdom of Great Britain and Ireland, and to that of her august
consort."

"The Queen," remarked Bunsen, "bowed at the first word, but much lower at the second. Her eyes
brightened through tears, and as the King was taking his seat again, she rose and bent towards
him and kissed his cheek, then took her seat again with a beaming countenance."

After the four-o'clock dinner, the royal party returned to Cologne, and from a steamer on the
Rhine saw, through a drizzle of rain which did not greatly mar the spectacle, a splendid display
of fireworks and illumination of the town, in which the great cathedral "seemed to glow with fire."

We quote a picturesque description of the striking scene. "The Rhine was made one vast feu-de-joie.
As darkness closed in, the dim city began to put forth buds of light. Lines of twinkling brightness
darted like liquid gold or silver from pile to pile, then by the bridge of boats across the
river, up the masts of the shipping, and along the road on the opposite bank. Rockets now shot
from all parts of the horizon. The royal party embarked in a steamer at St. Tremond and glided
down by the river. As they passed the banks blazed with fireworks and musketry. At their approach
the bridge glowed with redoubled light, and, opening, let the vessel pass to Cologne, whose
cathedral burst forth a building of light, every detail of the architecture being made out
in delicately-coloured lamps--pinkish, with an underglow of orange. Traversing in carriages
the illuminated and vociferous city, the King and his companions returned by the railroad to
Bruhl."

Next morning there was a great concert at Bonn--part of the Beethoven festival, in which much
fine music was given, but, oddly enough, not much of Beethoven's, to her Majesty's regret.
The Queen drove to the University--in the classrooms of which the Prince had sat as a student--and
saw more of the professors who had taught him, and of students similar to those who had been
his class-fellows. Then she went once more to Cologne, and visited its glory, the cathedral,
at that time unfinished, returning to Bruhl to hail with delight the arrival of the King and
Queen of the Belgians. "It seems like a dream to them and to me to see each other in Germany,"
the Queen wrote once more. The passages from her Majesty's Journal read as if she were pleased
to congratulate herself on being at last with Prince Albert in his native country.

The last day at Cologne ended in another great concert, conducted by Meyerbeer, for which he
had composed a cantata in honour of the Queen. Jenny Lind sang in the concert. It was her Majesty's
first opportunity of hearing the great singer, who, of all her sister singers, has most identified
herself with England, and from her noble, womanly character and domestic virtues, endeared
herself to English hearts.

The tutelary genius of the river which is the Germans' watchword was not able to procure the
Queen her weather for her sail on its green waters. Rain fell or threatened for both of the
days. Not even the presence of three queens--of England, Prussia, and Belgium--two kings, a
prince consort, an archduke, and a future emperor and empress, could propitiate the adverse
barometer, or change the sulky face of the sky. Between showers the Queen had a glimpse of
the romantic scenery, and perhaps Ehrenbreitstein was most in character when the smoke from
the firing of twenty thousand troops "brought home to the imagination the din and lurid splendours
of a battle."

The halt was made at Schlossenfels, which included among its distinguished guests Humboldt
and Prince Metternich. Next day the King and Queen of Prussia took leave of their visitors,
still under heavy rain. The weather cleared afterwards for a time, however, and beautiful Bingen,
with the rest of the Rhenish country, was seen in sunshine. The only inconvenience remaining
was the thunder of cannons and rattle of muskets which every loyal village kept up.

At Mayence the Queen was received by the Governor, Prince William of Prussia, and the Austrian
commander, while the Prussian and Austrian troops, with their bands, gave a torchlight serenade
before the hotel windows. On the rest-day which Sunday secured, the Queen saw the good nurse
who had brought the royal pair into the world. Her Majesty had also her first introduction
to one of her future sons-in-law--an unforeseen kinsman then--Prince Louis of Hesse, whom she
noticed as "a very fine boy of eight, nice, and full of intelligence."

There were still long leagues to drive, posting, before Coburg could be reached, and the party
started from Mayence in two travelling carriages as early as seven o'clock next morning. They
went by Frankfort to Aschaffenburg, where they were met by Bavarian troops and a representative
of the King on their entrance into Bavaria. Through woodland scenery, and fields full of the
stir of harvest, where a queenly woman did not relish the spectacle of her sister-women treated
as beasts of burden, the travellers journeyed to Wurzburg. There Prince Luitpold of Bavaria
met and welcomed them to a magnificent palace, where the luggage, which ought to have preceded
the wearied travellers, was not forthcoming. Another long day's driving, beginning at a little
after six in the morning, would bring the party to Coburg. By one o'clock they were at the
old prince- bishop's stately town of Bamberg. In the course of the afternoon the Queen had
changed horses for the last time in Franconia. "I began," she wrote, "to feel greatly moved,
agitated indeed, in coming near the Coburg frontier. At length we saw flags and people drawn
up in lines, and in a few minutes more were welcomed by Ernest (the Duke of Coburg) in full
uniform.... We got into an open carriage of Ernest's with six horses, Ernest sitting opposite
to us."

The rest of the scene was very German, quaintly picturesque and warm- hearted. "The good people
were all dressed in their best, the women in pointed caps, with many petticoats, and the men
in leather breeches. Many girls were there with wreaths of flowers." A triumphal arch, a Vice-Land-Director,
to whose words of greeting the Queen replied, his fellow-officials on either side, the people
welcoming their prince and his queen in "a really hearty and friendly way."

The couple drove to what had been the pretty little country house of their common grandmother,
the late Dowager-Duchess of Coburg, and found King Leopold and Queen Louise awaiting them there.
He also was an honoured son of Coburg, pleased to be present on such a proud day for the little
State. He and his queen took their places beside Queen Victoria and Prince Albert--Ernest Duke
of Coburg mounting on horseback and riding beside the carriage as its chief escort. In this
order the procession, "which looked extremely pretty," was formed. At the entrance to the town
there was another triumphal arch, beneath which the Burgomaster addressed the royal couple.
"On the other side stood a number of young girls dressed in white, with green wreaths and scarfs,
who presented us with bouquets and verses."

Oh! what anxious, exciting, girlish rehearsals must have been gone through beforehand.

"I cannot say how much I felt moved on entering this dear old place, and with difficulty I
restrained my emotion. The beautifully- ornamented town, all bright with wreaths and flowers,
the numbers of good affectionate people, the many recollections connected with the place--all
was so affecting. In the Platz, where the Rathhaus and Rigierungshaus are, which are fine and
curious old houses, the clergy were assembled, and Ober-Superintendent Genzler addressed us
very kindly--a very young-looking man for his age, for he married mamma to my father, and christened
and confirmed Albert and Ernest." Neither was the motherly presence of her whose marriage vow
the Ober- Superintendent had blessed, who had done so much to contribute to the triumph of
this day, wanting to its complete realization of all that such a day should have been. The
Duchess of Kent was already on a visit to her nephew, standing on the old threshold--once so
well known to her--ready to help to welcome her daughter, prepared to show her the home and
cherished haunts of her mother's youth. As the carriage drew up, young girls threw wreaths
into it. Beside the Duchess of Kent were the Duchess and Dowager-Duchess of Coburg, Prince
Albert's sister-in-law and stepmother. The staircase was full of cousins. "It was an affecting
but exquisite moment, which I shall never forget," declared the Queen.

But in the middle of the gratification of the son of the house who thus brought his true wife
under its roof-tree, and of his satisfaction of being with her there, the faithful hearts did
not forget the late sovereign and house-father who had hoped so eagerly to welcome them to
the ancestral home. They were there, but his place was filled by another. At Coburg and at
Rosenau, which had been one of the old Duke's favourite resorts, his memory haunted his children.
"Every sound, every view, every step we take makes us think of him and feel an indescribable
hopeless longing for him."

By an affectionate, thoughtful provision for their perfect freedom and enjoyment, Rosenau,
Prince Albert's birthplace, was set apart for the Queen and the Prince's occupation on this
very happy occasion when they visited Coburg, and still it is the widowed Queen's residence
when she is dwelling in the neighbourhood. Beautiful in itself among its woods and hills, it
was doubly beautiful to both from its associations. The room in which the Queen slept was that
in which the Prince had been born. "How happy, how joyful we were," the Queen wrote, "on awaking
to find ourselves here, at the dear Rosenau, my Albert's birthplace, the place he most loves....
He was so happy to be here with me. It is like a beautiful dream."

Fine chorales were sung below the window by some of the singers in the Coburg theatre. Before
breakfast the Prince carried off the Queen to see the upper part of the house, which he and
his brother had occupied when children. "It is quite in the roof, with a tiny little bedroom
on each side, in one of which they both used to sleep with Florschutz, their tutor. [Footnote:
The Prince was then such a mere child that the tutor used to carry him in his arms up and down
stairs. One is reminded of the old custom of appointing noble governors for royal children
of the tenderest years, and of the gracious pathetic relations which sometimes existed between
bearded knights and infant kings. Such was the case where Sir David Lindsay of the Mount and
little King James V. were concerned, when the pupil would entreat the master for a song on
the lute with childish peremptoriness, "P'ay, Davie Lindsay, p'ay!"] The view is beautiful,
and the paper is still full of holes from their fencing; and the very same table is there on
which they were dressed when little."

The days were too short for all that was to be seen and done. The first day there was a visit
to the fortress overhanging the town, which looks as far away as the sea of trees, the Thuringerwald.
It has Luther's room, with his chair and part of his bed.

In the evening the Queen went to the perfect little German theatre, where Meyerbeer's Huguenots
was given, and the audience sang "God save the Queen" to German words.

The next day the visitors drove to Kalenberg, another of the Duke's seats. In the evening they
held a reception at the palace, when not only those persons who had the magic prefix von to
their names were admitted, but deputations of citizens, merchants, and artisans were presented,
the Queen praising their good manners afterwards.

The following day was the Feast of St. Gregorius, the children's festival, in which thirteen
hundred children walked in procession through Coburg, some in fancy dresses, most of the girls
in white and green. Three girls came up to the palace balcony and sang a song in honour of
the Queen. Then great and small repaired to the meadow-- fortunately the fine weather had set
in--where there were tents decorated with flowers, in which the royal party dined, while the
band played and the children danced "so nicely and merrily, waltzes, polkas, and it was the
prettiest thing I ever saw," declared the Queen. "Her Majesty talked to the children, to their
great astonishment, in their own language. Tired of dancing and processions, and freed from
all awe by the ease of the illustrious visitors, the children took to romps, 'thread my needle,'
and other pastimes, and finally were well pelted by the royal circle with bon-bons, flowers
and cakes" is the report of another observer.

The day ended with a great ball at the palace.

The next day was spent more quietly in going over old favourite haunts, among them the cabinet
or collection of curiosities, stuffed birds, fossils, autographs, &c., which had been formed
partly by the Princes when boys. Prince Albert continued to take the greatest interest in it,
and had made the Queen a contributor to its treasures. At dinner the Queen tasted bratuerste
(roasted sausages), the national dish of Coburg, and pronounced it excellent, with its accompaniment
of native beer. A royal neighbour, Queen Adelaide's brother, the Duke of Saxe-Meiningen, joined
the party at dinner, and the company witnessed the performance of Schiller's Bride of Messina
at the theatre.

On Sunday the August weather was so hot that the Queen and the Prince breakfasted for the second
time out of doors. In the course of the morning they drove over with Duke Ernest and the Duchess
to St. Moritz Kirche--equivalent to the cathedral of the town. The clergy received the party
at the door of the church, and the Ober-Superintendent Genzler made a brief oration "expressive
of his joy at receiving the great Christian Queen who was descended from their Saxon dukes,
who were the first Reformers, and at the doors of the church where the Reformation was first
preached." The Queen describes the service as like the Scotch Presbyterian form, only with
more ceremony and more singing. The last impressed her deeply. The pastor preached a fine sermon.
The afternoon's drive led through scenery which, especially in its pine woods, resembled the
Scotch Highlands, and ended in the Thiergarten, where the Duke reared his wild boars.

"I cannot think," the Queen wrote longingly, "of going away from here. I count the hours, for
I have a feeling here which I cannot describe-- a feeling as if my childhood also had been
spent here." No wonder; Coburg was home to her, like her native air or her mother tongue; she
must have learnt to know it at her mother's knee. Her husband's experience was added to the
earlier recollection of every salient point, every Haus-Mahrchen; and never were husband and
wife more in sympathy than the two who now snatched a short season of delight from a sojourn
in the cradle of their race.

Another brilliant sunshiny day--which the brother Princes spent together reviving old associations
in the town, while the Queen sketched at Rosenau--closed with the last visit to the theatre,
when the people again sang "God save the Queen," adding to it some pretty farewell verses.

The last day which the Queen passed in Coburg was, by a happy circumstance, the Prince's birthday--the
first he had spent at Rosenau since he was a lad of fifteen, and, in spite of all changes,
the day dawned full of quiet gladness. "To celebrate this dear day in my beloved husband's
country and birthplace is more than I ever hoped for," wrote her Majesty, "and I am so thankful
for it; I wished him joy so warmly when the singers sang as they did the other morning." The
numberless gifts had been arranged by no other hands than those of the Queen and the Prince's
brother and sister-in-law on a table "dressed with flowers."' Peasants came in gala dress,
[Footnote: The Queen admired greatly many of the peasant costumes, often as serviceable and
durable as they were becoming, which she saw in Germany. She expressed the regret so often
uttered by English travellers that English labourers and workers at handicrafts, in place of
retaining a dress of their own, have long ago adopted a tawdry version of the fashions of the
upper classes. Unfortunately the practice is fast becoming universal.] with flowers, music,
and dancing to offer their good wishes. In the afternoon all was quiet again, and the Queen
and the Prince took their last walk together, for many a day, at Rosenau, down into the hayfields
where the friendly people exchanged greetings with them, drank the crystal clear water from
the stream, and looked at the fortifications which two princely boys had dug and built, as
partly lessons, partly play.

The next day at half-past eight the travellers left "with heavy hearts," measuring the fateful
years which were likely to elapse before Coburg was seen again. The pain of parting was lessened
by the presence of the Duke and Duchess of Coburg, who accompanied their guests to the Duke's
other domain of Gotha. The way led through Queen Adelaide's country of Meiningen, and at every
halting-place clergymen with addresses more or less discursive, and "white and green young
ladies," literally bombarded the travellers with speeches, flowers, and poems. At last the
Duke of Coburg's territory was again entered after it was dark; and the party reached the lovely
castellated country-seat of Reinhardtsbrunn, amidst forest and mountain scenery, with its lake
in front of the house, set down in the centre of a mining population that came up in quaint
costumes, with flaming torches, to walk in procession past the windows. The Queen was charmed
with Reinhardtsbrunn, and would fain have lingered there, but time pressed, and she was expected
in the course of the next afternoon at Gotha, on a visit to the Prince's aged grandmother who
had helped to bring him up, and was so fondly attached to her former charge.

The old lady at seventy-four years of age anticipated the visit. She travelled the distance
of eight miles before breakfast, in order to take her grandchildren by surprise. "I hastened
to her," is the Queen's account, "and found Albert and Ernest with her. She is a charming old
lady, and though very small, remarkably nice-looking, erect and active, but unfortunately very
deaf.... She was so happy to see us, and kissed me over and over again. Albert, who is the
dearest being to her in the world, she was enraptured to see again, and kissed so kindly. It
did one's heart good to see her joy."

In the afternoon the travellers proceeded to Gotha, which was in a state of festival and crowded
with people. The Queen and the Prince resided at the old Duchess's house of Friedrichsthal,
where the greatest preparations, including the hanging of all her pictures in their rooms,
had been made for them. The first visit they paid in Gotha was a solemn one, to the chapel
which formed the temporary resting-place of the body of the late Duke, till it could be removed
to its vault in Coburg. Then the rooms in which the father had died were visited. These were
almost equally melancholy, left as they had been, unchanged, with the wreaths that had decorated
the room for his last birthday still there; "and there is that sad clock which stopped just
before he died." Who that has seen in Germany these faded wreaths, with their crushed, soiled
streamers of white riband, can forget the desolate aspect which they lend to any room in which
they are preserved!

There was a cabinet or museum here, too, to inspect, and the curious old spectacle of the popinjay
to be witnessed, in company with the Grand Duke of Weimar and his son. This kind of shooting
was harmless enough, for the object aimed at was a wooden bird on a pole. The riflemen, led
by the rifle-king (schutzen-konig), the public officials, and deputations of peasants marched
past the platform where the Queen stood, like a pageant of the Middle Ages. All the princes,
including King Leopold, fired, but none brought down the bird; that feat was left for some
humbler hero.

On the Queen's return from the popinjay she had the happiness to meet Baroness Lehzen, her
old governess, who had come from Buckeburg to see her Majesty. During the next few days the
old friends were often together, and the Queen speaks with pleasure of the Baroness's "unchanged
devotion," only she was quieter than formerly. It must have appeared like another dream to
both, that "the little Princess" of Kensington, travelling with her husband, should greet her
old governess, and tell her, under the shadow of the great Thuringerwald, of the four children
left behind in England.

The next day the forest itself was entered, when "the bright blue sky, the heavenly air, the
exquisite tints," gave a crowning charm to its beauties. The road lay through green glades
which occasionally commanded views so remote as those of the Hartz Mountains, to Jagersruh,
a hunting-lodge on a height "among stately firs that look like cedars." Here the late Duke
had excited all his skill and taste to make a hunter's paradise, which awoke again the regretful
thought, "How it would have pleased him to have shown all this himself to those he loved so
dearly!"

But Jagersruh was not the goal of the excursion; it was a "deer-drive" or battue, which in
Germany at least can be classed as "a relic of mediaeval barbarism." A considerable space in
the forest was cleared and enclosed with canvas. In the centre of this enclosure was a pavilion
open at the sides, made of branches of fir-trees, and decorated with berries, heather, and
forest flowers; in short, a sylvan bower provided for the principal company, outside a table
furnished with powder and shot supplied a station for less privileged persons, including the
chasseurs or huntsmen of the Duke, in green and gold uniforms.

Easy-chairs were placed in the pavilion for the Queen, the Queen of the Belgians, and the Duchess
Alexandrina, while Prince Albert, King Leopold, the Prince of Leiningen, and Duke Ferdinand
of Saxe-Coburg, the Prince's uncle, stood by the ladies. Stags to the number of upwards of
thirty, and other game, were driven into the enclosure, and between the performances of a band
which played at intervals, the gentlemen loaded their rifles, and fired at the helpless prey
in the presence of the ladies.

Her Majesty records in her Journal, "As for the sport itself, none of the gentlemen like this
butchery." She turns quickly from the piteous slaughter to the beautiful, peaceful scenery.

A quiet Sunday was spent at Gotha. Monday was the Lieder fest, or festival of song, to which,
on this occasion, not only the townspeople and villagers from all the neighbouring towns and
villages came with their banners and bands, but every small royalty from far and near flocked
to meet the Queen of England. These innumerable cousins repaired with the Queen to the park
opposite the Schloss, and shared in the festival. The orchestra, composed of many hundreds
of singers, was opposite the pavilion erected for the distinguished visitors. Among the fine
songs, rendered as only Germans could render them, songs composed by Prince Albert and his
brother, and songs written for the day, were sung. Afterwards there was a State dinner and a ball.

The last day had come, with its inevitable sadness. "I can't--won't think of it," wrote the
Queen, referring to her approaching departure. She drove and walked, and, with her brother-in-law
and his Duchess, was ferried over to the "Island of Graves," the burial-place of the old Dukes
of Gotha when the duchy was distinct from that of Coburg. An ancient gardener pointed out to
the visitors that only one more flower-covered grave was wanted to make the number complete.
When the Duchess of Gotha should be laid to rest with her late husband and his fathers, then
the House of Gotha, in its separate existence, would have passed away.

One more drive through the hayfields and the noble fir-trees to the vast Thuringerwald, and,
"with many a longing, lingering look at the pine-clad mountains," the Queen and the Prince
turned back to attend a ball given in their honour by the townspeople in the theatre.

On the following day the homeward journey was begun. After partings, rendered still more sorrowful
by the fact that the age of the cherished grandmother of the delightful "dear" family party
rendered it not very probable that she, for one, would see all her children round her again,
the Duke and Duchess of Coburg went one stage with the travellers, and then there was another
reluctant if less painful parting.

The Queen and the Prince stopped at the quaint little town of Eisenach, which Helen of Orleans
was yet to make her home. They were received by the Grand Duke and Hereditary Duchess of Saxe-Weimar,
with whom the strangers drove through the autumn woods to the famous old fortress of the Wartburg,
which, in its time, dealt a deadly blow to Roman Catholicism by sheltering, in the hour of
need, the Protestant champion, Luther. Like the good Protestants her Majesty and the Prince
were, they went to see the great reformer's room, and looked at the ink-splash on the wall--the
mark of his conflict with the devil--the stove at which he warmed himself, the rude table at
which he wrote and ate, and above all, the glorious view over the myriads of tree-tops with
which he must have refreshed his steadfast soul. But if Luther is the hero of the Wartburg,
there is also a heroine--the central figure of that "Saint's Tragedy" which Charles Kingsley
was to give to the world in the course of the next two or three years--St. Elizabeth of Thuringia,
the tenderest, bravest, most tortured soul that ever received the doubtful gain of canonization.
There is the well by which she is said to have ministered to her sick poor, half-way up the
ascent to the Wartburg, and down in the little town nestling below, may be seen the remains
of an hospital bearing her name.

From Fulda, where the royal party slept, they journeyed to Goethe's town of Frankfort, where
Ludwig I., who turned Munich into a great picture and sculpture gallery, and built the costly
Valhalla to commemorate the illustrious German dead, dined with her Majesty.

At Biberich the Rhine was again hailed, and a steamer, waiting for the travellers, carried
them to Bingen, where their own little vessel, The Fairy, met and brought them on to Deutz,
on the farther side from Cologne. The Queen says naively that the Rhine had lost its charm
for them all--the excitement of novelty was gone, and the Thuringerwald had spoilt them. Stolzenfels,
Ehrenbreitstein, and the Sieben-Gebirge had their words of praise, but sight-seeing had become
for the present a weariness, and after Bonn, with its memories, had been left behind, it was
a rest to the royal travellers--as to most other travellers at times--to turn away their jaded
eyes, relinquish the duty of alert observation, forget what was passing around them, and lose
themselves in a book, as if they were in England. Perhaps the home letters had awakened a little
home-sickness in the couple who had been absent for a month. At least, we are given to understand
that it was of home and children the Queen and the Prince were chiefly thinking when they reached
Antwerp, to which the King and Queen of the Belgians had preceded them, and re-embarked in
the royal yacht Victoria and Albert, though it was not at once to sail for English waters.
In gracious compliance with an urgent entreaty of Louis Philippe's, the yacht was to call,
as it were in passing, at Treport.

On the morning of the 8th of September the Queen's yacht again lay at anchor off the French
seaport. The King's barge, with the King, his son, and son-in-law, Prince Joinville, and Prince
Augustus of Saxe- Coburg, and M. Guizot, once more came alongside. After the friendliest greetings,
the Queen and Prince Albert landed with their host, though not without difficulty. The tide
would not admit of the ordinary manner of landing, and Louis Philippe in the dilemma fell back
on a bathing-machine, which dragged the party successfully if somewhat unceremoniously over
the sands.

The Queen of the French was there as before, accompanied among others by her brother, the Prince
of Salerno and his Princess, sister to the Emperor of Austria. The crowd cheered as loudly
as ever; there seemed no cloud on the horizon that bright, hot day; even the plague of too
much publicity and formality had been got rid of at Chateau d'Eu. The Queen was delighted to
renew her intercourse with the large, bright family circle--two of them her relations and fast
friends. "It put me so much in mind of two years ago," she declared, "that it was really as
if we had never been away;" and the King had to show her his Galerie Victoria, a room fitted
up in her honour, hung with the pictures illustrating her former visit and the King's return
visit to Windsor.

Although she had impressed on him that she wished as much as possible to dispense with state
and show on this occasion, the indefatigable old man had been at the trouble and expense of
erecting a theatre, and bringing down from Paris the whole of the Opera Comique to play before
her, and thus increase the gaiety of the single evening of her stay.

Only another day was granted to Chateau d'Eu. By the next sunset the King was conducting his
guests on board the royal yacht and seizing the last opportunity, when Prince Albert was taking
Prince Joinville over the Fairy, glibly to assure the Queen and Lord Aberdeen that he, Louis
Philippe, would never consent to Montpensier's marriage to the Infanta of Spain till her sister
the Queen was married and had children.

At parting the King embraced her Majesty again and again. The yacht lay still, and there was
the most beautiful moonlight reflected on the water. The Queen and the Prince walked up and
down the deck, while not they alone, but the astute statesman Aberdeen, congratulated themselves
on how well this little visit had prospered, in addition to the complete success of the German
tour. With the sea like a lake, and sky and sea of the deepest blue, in the early morning the
yacht weighed anchor for England. Under the hot haze of an autumn noonday sun the royal travellers
disembarked on the familiar beach at Osborne.

The Queen referred afterwards to that visit to Germany as to one of the happiest times in her
life. She said when she thought of it, it made her inclined to cry, so pure and tender had
been the pleasure.

One thousand eight hundred and forty-five had begun with what appeared a fresh impetus to national
prosperity--a new start full of life and vigour, by which the whole resources of the country
should be at once stirred up and rendered ten times more available than they had ever been
before. This was known afterwards as "the Railway Mania," which, like other manias, if they
are not mere fever-fits of speculation, but are founded on real and tangible gains, had its
eager hopeful rise, its inflated disproportioned exaggeration, its disastrous collapse, its
gradual recovery, and eventually its solid reasonable success. In 1845 the movement was hurrying
on to the second stage of its history.

The great man of 1845 was Hudson the railway speculator, "the Railway King." Fabulous wealth
was attributed to him; immense power for the hour was his. A seat in Parliament, entrance into
aristocratic circles, were trifles in comparison. We can remember hearing of a great London
dinner at which the lions were the gifted Prince, the husband of the Queen, and the distorted
shadow of George Stephenson, the bourgeois creator of a network of railway lines, a Bourse
of railway shares; the winner, as it was then supposed, of a huge fortune. It was said that
Prince Albert himself had felt some curiosity to see this man and hear him speak, and that
their encounter on this occasion was prearranged and not accidental.

The autumn of 1845 revealed another side to the country's history. The rainy weather in the
summer brought to sudden hideous maturity the lurking potato disease. Any one who recalls the
time and the aspect of the fields must retain a vivid recollection of the sudden blight that
fell upon acres on acres of what had formerly been luxuriant vegetation, under the sunshine
which came late only to complete the work of destruction; the withering and blackening of the
leaves of the plant, the sickening foetid odour of the decaying bulbs, which tainted the heavy
air for miles; the dismay that filled the minds of the people, who, in the days of dear corn,
had learnt more and more to depend upon the cultivation of potatoes, to whom their failure
meant ruin and starvation.

This was especially the case in Ireland and the Highlands of Scotland, where the year closed
in gloom and apprehension; famine stalked abroad, and doles of Indian corn administered by
Government in addition to the alms of the charitable, alone kept body and soul together in
fever-stricken multitudes.

About this time also, like another feature of the spirit of adventure which sent Franklin to
the North Pole, and operated to a certain extent in the flush of railway enterprise, England
was talking half chivalrously, half commercially, and alas! more than half sceptically, of
Brook and Borneo, and the new attempt to establish civilization and herald Christianity under
English influence in the far seas. All these conflicting elements of new history were felt
in the palace as in other dwellings, and made part of Queen Victoria's life in those days.

A great statesman closed his eyes on this changing world. Earl Grey, who had been in the front
in advocating change in his time, died.

A brave soldier fell in the last of his battles. Sir Robert Sale, who had been the guest of
his Queen a year before, having returned to India and rejoined the army of the Sutlej on fresh
disturbances breaking out in the Punjab, was killed at the battle of Moodkee.

Something of the wit and humour of the country was quenched or undergoing a transformation
and passing into other hands. Two famous English humorists, Sydney Smith and Tom Hood the elder,
went over to the great majority.

By the close of 1845 it had become clear that a change in the Corn Laws was impending. In the
circumstances Sir Robert Peel, who, though he had been for some time approaching the conclusion,
was not prepared to take immediate steps--who was, indeed, the representative of the Conservative
party--resigned office. Lord John Russell, the great Whig leader, was called upon by the Queen
to summon a new Ministry; but in consequence of difficulties with those who were to have been
his colleagues, Lord John was compelled to announce himself unable to form a Cabinet, and Sir
Robert Peel, at the Queen's request, resumed office, conscious that he had to face one of the
hardest tasks ever offered to a statesman. He had to encounter "the coolness of former friends,
the grudging support of unwilling adherents, the rancour of disappointed political antagonists."

In February, 1846, the royal family spent a week at Osborne, glad to escape from the strife
of tongues and the violent political contention which they could do nothing to quell. The Prince
was happy, "out all day," directing the building which was going on, and laying out the grounds
of his new house; and the Queen was happy in her husband and Children's happiness. During this
short absence Sir Robert Peel's resolutions were carried, and his Corn Bill, which was virtually
the repeal of the Corn Laws, passed. He had only to await the consequences.

In the middle of the political excitement a single human tragedy, which Sir Robert Peel did
something to prevent, reached its climax. Benjamin Haydon, the painter, the ardent advocate,
both by principle and practice, of high art, took his life, driven to despair by his failure
in worldly success--especially by the ill-success of his cartoons at the exhibition in Westminster
Hall.

On the 25th of May a third princess was born, and on the 20th of June Sir Robert Peel's old
allies, the Tories, who had but bided their time for revenge, while his new Whig associates
looked coldly on him, conspired to defeat him in a Government measure to check assassination
in Ireland, so that he had no choice save to resign. He had sacrificed himself as well as his
party for what he conceived to be the good of the nation. His reign of power was at an end;
but for the moment, at least, he was thankful.

To Lord John Russell, who was more successful than on an earlier occasion, the task of forming
a new Ministry was intrusted. The parting from her late ministers, on the 6th of July, was
a trial to the Queen, as the same experience had been previously. "Yesterday," her Majesty
wrote to King Leopold, "was a very hard day for me. I had to part from Sir Robert Peel and
Lord Aberdeen, who are irreparable losses to us and to the country. They were both so much
overcome that it quite upset me.

In the separation the Queen turned naturally to a nearer and dearer friend, whom only death
could remove from her. "Albert's use to me, and I may say to the country, by his firmness and
sagacity in these moments of trial, is beyond all belief." And beyond all gainsaying must have
been the deep satisfaction with which the uncle, who was like a father, heard the repeated
assurance of how successful had been his work--what a blessing had rested upon it.

Here is a note of exultation on the political changes from the opposite side of the House.
Lord Campbell wrote: "The transfer of the ministerial offices took place at Buckingham Palace
on the 6th of July. I ought to have been satisfied, for I received two seals, one for the Duchy
of Lancaster and one for the County Palatine of Lancaster. My ignorance of the double honour
which awaited me caused an awkward accident, for, when the Queen put two velvet bags into my
hand, I grasped one only, and the other with its heavy weight fell down on the floor, and might
have bruised the royal toes, but Prince Albert good-naturedly picked it up and restored it to me."

In July the Court again paid a short visit to Osborne, that the Queen's health might be recruited
before the baptism of the little Princess. Her Majesty earnestly desired that the Queen of
the Belgians might be present, as the baby was to be the godchild of the young widow of Queen
Louise's much-loved brother, the late Duc d'Orleans. Unfortunately the wish could not be fulfilled.
The child was christened at Buckingham Palace. She received the names of "Helena Augusta Victoria."
Her sponsors were the Duchesse d'Orleans, represented by the Duchess of Kent; the Duchess of
Cambridge; and the Hereditary Grand Duke of Mecklenburg-Strelitz. The illustration represents
the charming little Princess at rather a more advanced age.

At the end of July Prince Albert was away from home for a few days. He visited Liverpool, which
he had greatly wished to see, in order to lay the foundation-stone of a Sailors' Home and open
the Albert Dock. In the middle of the bustle and enthusiasm of his reception he wrote to the
Queen: "I write hoping these lines, which go by the evening post, may reach you by breakfast
time to-morrow. As I write you will be making your evening toilette, and not be ready in time
for dinner. [Footnote: The Queen dressed quickly, but sometimes she relied too much on her
powers in this respect, and failed in her wonted punctuality.] I must set about the same task
and not, let me hope, with the same result. I cannot get it into my head that there are two
hundred and fifty miles between us.... I must conclude and enclose, by way of close, two touching
objects--a flower and a programme of the procession."

The same day the Queen wrote to Baron Stockmar: "I feel very lonely without my dear master;
and though I know other people are often separated for a few days, I feel habit could not make
me get accustomed to it. This I am sure you cannot blame. Without him everything loses its
interest.... It will always be a terrible pang for me to separate from him even for two days."
Then she added with a ring of foreboding, "And I pray God never to let me survive him." She
concluded with the true woman's proud assertion, "I glory in his being seen and heard."

CHAPTER V.

AUTUMN YACHTING EXCURSIONS--THE SPANISH MARRIAGES--WINTER VISITS.

In the beginning of August the Queen and the Prince, accompanied by the King and Queen of the
Belgians, went again to Osborne. This autumn the Queen, the Prince and their two elder children,
made pleasant yachting excursions, of about a week's duration each, to old admired scenes and
new places. In one of these Baron Stockmar was with them, since he had come to England for
a year's visit. He expressed himself as much gratified by the Prince's interest and judgment
in politics, and his opinion of the Queen was more favourable than ever. "The Queen improves
greatly," he noted down as the fruits of his keen observation, "and she makes daily advances
in discernment and experience. The candour, the tone of truth, the fairness, the considerateness
with which she judges men and things, are truly delightful; and the ingenuous self-knowledge
with which she speaks of herself is simply charming." The yachting excursions included Babbicombe,
with the red rocks and wooded hills, which gave the Queen an idea of Italy, where she had never
been, "or rather of a ballet or play where nymphs are to appear;" and Torbay, where William
of Orange landed. It was perhaps in reference to that event that her Majesty made her little
daughter "read in her English history." It seems to have been the Queen's habit, in these yachting
excursions, to take upon herself a part, at least, of the Princess Royal's education. "Beautiful
Dartmouth" recalled--it might be all the more, because of the rain that fell there--the Rhine
with its ruined castles and its Lurlei. Plymouth Harbour and the shore where the pines grew
down to the sea, led again to Mount Edgcumbe, always lovely. But first the Queen and the Prince
steamed up the St. Germans and the Tamar rivers, passing Trematon Castle, which belonged to
the little Duke of Cornwall, and penetrated by many windings of the stream into lake-like regions
surrounded by woods and abounding in mines, which made the Prince think of some parts of the
Danube. The visitors landed at Cothele, and drove up to a fine old house unchanged since Henry
VII.'s time. When they returned in the Fairy to the yacht proper, they found it in the centre
of a shoal of boats, as it had been the last time it sailed in these waters.

Prince Albert made an excursion to Dartmoor, and could have believed he was in Scotland, while
her Majesty contented herself with another visit to Mount Edgcumbe, the master of which, a
great invalid, yet contrived to meet her near the landing-place at which his wife and sons,
with other members of the family, had received the royal visitor. The drowsy heat and the golden
haze were in keeping with the romantically luxuriant glories of the drive, which the Queen
took with her children and her hostess. The little people went in to luncheon while the Queen
sketched.

After Prince Albert's return in the afternoon, the visit was repeated. "The finest and tallest
chestnut-trees in existence," and the particularly tall and straight birch-trees, were inspected,
and Sir Joshua Reynolds's portraits examined. Well might they flourish at Mount Edgcumbe, since
Plymouth was Sir Joshua's native town, and some of the Edgcumbe family were among his first
patrons, when English art stood greatly in need of such patronage.

The next excursion was an impromptu run in lovely weather to Guernsey, which had not been visited
by an English sovereign since the days of King John. The rocky bays, the neighbouring islands,
the half-foreign town of St. Pierre, with "very high, bright-coloured houses," illuminated
at night, pleased her Majesty greatly. On the visitors landing they were met by ladies dressed
in white singing "God save the Queen," and strewing the path with flowers. General Napier,
a white- haired soldier, received the Queen and presented her with the keys of the fort. The
narrow streets through which she drove were "decorated with flowers and flags, and lined with
the Guernsey militia." The country beyond, of which she had a glimpse, was crowned with fine
vegetation.

Whether or not it was to prevent Jersey, with St. Helier's, from feeling jealous, ten days
later the Queen and the Prince, the Prince of Wales, and the Princess Royal, the usual suite,
Lord Spencer, and Lord Palmerston, set out on a companion trip to the sister island. The weather
was colder and the sea not so calm. Indeed, the rolling of the vessel in Alderney Race was
more than the voyagers had bargained for. After it became smoother the little Prince of Wales
put on a sailor's dress made by a tailor on board, and great was the jubilation of the Jack
Tars of every degree.

The whole picturesque coast of Jersey was circumnavigated in order to reach St. Helier's, which
was gained when the red rocks were gilded with the setting sun. A little later the yacht was
hauled up under the glow of bonfires and an illumination. On a splendid September day, which
lent to the very colouring a resemblance to Naples, the Queen passed between the twin towers
of Noirmont Point and St. Aubin, and approached Elizabeth Castle, with the town of St. Helier's
behind it. The Queen landed amidst the firing of guns, the playing of military bands, and the
roar of cheers, the ladies of the place, as before, strewing her path with flowers, and marshalling
her to a canopy, under which her Majesty received the address of the States and the militia.
The demonstrations were on a larger and more finished scale than in Guernsey, greater time
having been given for preparation.

The French tongue around her arrested the Queen's attention. So did a seat in one of the streets
filled with French women from Granville, "curiously dressed, with white handkerchiefs on their
heads." The Queen drove through the green island, admiring its orchards without end, though
the season of russet and rosy apples was past for Jersey. The old tower of La Hogue Bie was
seen, and the castle of Mont Orgueil was still more closely inspected, the Queen walking up
to it and visiting one of its batteries, with a view across the bay to the neighbouring coast
of France. Mont Orgueil is said to have been occupied by Robert of Normandy, the unfortunate
son of William the Conqueror. Her Majesty heard that it had not yet been taken, but found this
was an error, though it was true the island of Guernsey had never been conquered.

The close of the pleasant day was a little spoilt by the heat and glare, which sent the Queen
ill to her cabin. The next day saw the party bound for Falmouth, where they arrived under a
beautiful moon, with the sea smooth as glass--not an unacceptable change from the rolling swell
of the first part of the little voyage.

Something unexpected and unwelcome had happened before the close of the excursion, while the
French coast which the Queen had hailed with so much pleasure was still full in sight. Whether
the news which arrived with the other dispatches had anything to do with the fit of indisposition
that rendered the heat and glare unbearable, it certainly marred the enjoyment of the last
part of her trip. Before quitting Jersey the Queen was made acquainted with the fact that Louis
Philippe's voluntary protestations with regard to the marriage of his son, the Duc de Montpensier,
had been so many idle words. He had stolen a march both upon England and Europe generally.
The marriage of the Due de Montpensier with the Infanta Luisa of Spain was announced simultaneously
with the marriage of her sister, the Queen of Spain, to her cousin the Due de Cadiz.

Everybody knows at this date how futile were Louis Philippe's schemes for the aggrandisement
of his family, and how he learnt by bitter experience, as Louis XIV. had done before him, that
a coveted Spanish alliance, in the very fact of its attainment, meant disaster and humiliation
for France.

Louis Philippe had the grace, as we sometimes say, to shrink from writing to announce the double
marriage against which he had so often solemnly pledged himself to the Queen. He delegated
the difficult task to Queen Amelie, who discharged it with as much tact as might have been
expected from so devoted a wife and kind a woman.

The Queen of England's reply to this begging of the question is full of spirit and dignity:--

"OSBORNE, September 10, 1846.

"MADAME,--I have just received your Majesty's letter of the 8th, and I hasten to thank you
for it. You will, perhaps remember what passed at Eu between the King and myself. You are aware
of the importance which I have always attached to the maintenance of our cordial understanding,
and the zeal with which I have laboured towards this end. You have no doubt been informed that
we refused to arrange the marriage between the Queen of Spain and our cousin Leopold (which
the two Queens [Footnote: The reference is to the young Queen of Spain and her mother the Queen-dowager
Christina.] had eagerly desired) solely with the object of not departing from a course which
would be more agreeable to the King, although we could not regard the course as the best. [Footnote:
The confining of the Queen of Spain's selection of a husband to a Bourbon prince, a descendant
of Philip V.] You will therefore easily understand that the sudden announcement of this double
marriage could not fail to cause us surprise and very keen regret.

"I crave your pardon, Madame, for speaking to you of politics at a time like this, but I am
glad that I can say for myself that I have always been sincere with you. Begging you to present
my respectful regards to the King, I am, Madame, your Majesty's most devoted friend,

"VICTORIA."

The last yachting excursion of the season was to Cornwall. The usual party accompanied the
Queen and the Prince, the elder children, and the ladies and gentlemen in waiting, her Majesty
managing, as before, to hear her little daughter repeat her lessons. Lizard Point and Land's
End were reached. At Penzance Prince Albert landed to inspect the copper and serpentine-stone
works, while the Queen sketched from the deck of the Fairy. As the Cornish boats clustered
round the yacht, and the Prince of Wales looked down with surprise on the half- outlandish
boatmen, a loyal shout arose, "Three cheers for the Duke of Cornwall."

The romantic: region of St. Michael's Mount, dear to the lovers of Arthurian legends, was visited,
the Queen climbing the circuitous path up the hill to enter the castle, the Prince mounting
to the tower where "St Michael's chair," the rocky seat for betrothed couples, still tests
their courage and endurance. Each man and woman races up the difficult path, and the winner
of the race who first sits down in the chair claims the right to rule the future home.

The illustration from a painting by Stanfield represents the imposing pile of the "old religious
house" crowning the noble rock, the royal yacht lying off the shore commanding St. Michael's
Mount, the numerous spectators on shore and in boats haunting the royal footsteps--in short,
the whole scene in the freshness and stir which broke in upon its sombre romance.

On Sunday service was held under the awning with its curtains of flags, Lord Spencer--a captain
in the navy--reading prayers "extremely well." On Monday there was an excursion to the serpentine
rocks, where caves and creeks, cormorants and gulls, lent their attractions to the spot. At
Penryn the corporation came on board, "very anxious to see the Duke of Cornwall." The Queen
makes a picture in writing of the quaint interview. "I stepped out of the pavilion on deck
with Bertie. Lord Palmerston told them that that was the Duke of Cornwall, and the old mayor
of Penryn said he hoped 'he would grow up a blessing to his parents and his country.'"

The party were rowed up the beautiful rivers Truro and Tregony, between banks covered with
stunted oaks or woods of a more varied kind down to the water's edge, past charming pools,
creeks, and ferries, with long strings of boats on the water and carts on the shore, and a
great gathering of people cheering the visitors, especially when the little Duke of Cornwall
was held up for them to see. The Queen took delight in the rustic demonstration, so much in
keeping with the place, and the simple loyalty of the people.

Her Majesty went to Fowey, and had the opportunity of driving through some of the narrowest,
steepest streets in England, till she reached the hilly ground of Cornwall, "covered with fields,
and intersected with hedges," and at last arrived at her little son's possession, the ivy-covered
ruin of the old castle of Restormel, an appanage of the Duchy of Cornwall, in which the last
Earl of Cornwall had resided five hundred years before.

The Queen also visited the Restormel iron-mines. She was one of the comparatively few ladies
who have ventured into the nether darkness of a pit. She saw her underground subjects as well
as those above ground, and to the former no less than to the latter she bore the kindly testimony
that she found them "intelligent good people." We can vouch for this that these hewers and
drawers of ore, in their dark-blue woollen suits, the arms bare, and caps with the candles
or lamps stuck in the front, lighting up the pallid grimy faces, would be fully conscious of
the honour done them, and would yield to no ruddy, fustian-clad ploughman or picturesque shepherd,
with his maud and crook in loyalty to their Queen.

The Queen and the Prince got into a truck and were drawn by the miners, the mineral agent for
Cornwall bringing up the rear, into the narrow workings, where none could pass between the
truck and the rock, and "there was just room to hold up one's head, and not always that." As
it is with other strangers in Pluto's domains, her Majesty felt there was something unearthly
about this lit-up cavern-like place, where many a man spent the greater part of his life. But
she was not deterred from getting out of the truck with me Prince, and scrambling along to
see the veins of ore, from which Prince Albert was able to knock off some specimens. Daylight
was dazzling to the couple when they returned to its cheerful presence.

The last visit paid in Cornwall was by very narrow stony lanes to "Place," a curious house
restored from old plans and drawings to a fac-simile of a Cornwall house of the past as it
had been defended by one of the ancestresses of the present family, the Treffrys, against an
attack made upon her, by the French during her husband's absence. The hall was lined with Cornwall
marble and porphyry.

On the 15th of September the new part of Osborne House was occupied for the first time by its
owners. Lady Lyttelton chronicled the pleasant event and some ceremonies which accompanied
it. "After dinner we were to drink the Queen and Prince's health as a 'house-warming.' And
after it the Prince said very naturally and simply, but seriously, 'We have a hymn' (he called
it a psalm) 'in Germany for such occasions. It begins'--and then he repeated two lines in German,
which I could not quote right, meaning a prayer to 'bless our going out and coming in.' It
was long and quaint, being Luther's. We all perceived that he was feeling it. And truly entering
a new house, a new palace, is a solemn thing to do, to those whose probable span of life in
it is long, and spite of rank, and health, and youth, down- hill now."

Sir Theodore Martin, who quotes Lady Lyttelton's letters in the "Life of the Prince Consort,"
gives such a hymn, which is a paraphrase of the 121st Psalm, as it appears in the Coburg Gesang-Buch,
and supplies a translation of the verse in question.

  Unsern ausgang segne Gott,
    Unsern erngang gleicher massen,
  Segne unser taglich brod,
    Segne unser thun und lassen. It
looked too strange and amusing. She wanted some melted lead and sundry
other charms, but they were not forthcoming. I told her I would call
her Luckie, and not Lucy."

During the autumn the Princess of Prussia, who was on a visit to her aunt, Queen Adelaide,
went to Windsor Castle, where Madame Bunsen met her. "I arrived here at six," writes Madame
Bunsen "and at eight went to dinner in the great hall, hung round with Waterloo pictures, the
band playing exquisitely, so placed as to be invisible, so that what with the large proportions
of the hall and the well-subdued lights, and the splendours of plate and decorations, the scene
was such as fairy tales present; and Lady Canning, Miss Stanley, and Miss Dawson were beautiful
enough to represent an ideal queen's ideal attendants.

"The Queen looked well and rayonnante, with the expression of countenance that she has when
pleased with what surrounds her, and which you know I like to see. The old Duke of Cambridge
failed not to ask after you.

"This morning at nine we were all assembled at prayers in the private chapel, then went to
breakfast, headed by Lady Canning, after which Miss Stanley took the Countess Haach and me
to see the collection of gold plate. Three works of Benvenuto Cellini, and a trophy from the
Armada, an immense flagon or wine-fountain, like a gigantic old- fashioned smelling-bottle,
and a modern Indian work--a box given to the Queen by an Indian potentate--were what interested
me the most. Then I looked at many interesting pictures in the long corridor.

"I am lodged in what is called the Devil's Tower, and have a view of the Round Tower, of which
I made a sketch as soon as I was out of bed this morning."

In October the Queen and the Prince spent several days on a private visit to the Queen-dowager
at her country house of Cashiobury. From Cashiobury the royal couple went on, in bad weather,
to Hatfield House, which had once been a palace, but had long been the seat of the Cecils,
Marquises of Salisbury. Here more than anywhere else Queen Victoria was on the track of her
great predecessor, Queen Elizabeth, while the virgin queen was still the maiden princess, considerably
oppressed by her stern sister Queen Mary. Queen Victoria inspected all the relics of the interesting
old place, "the vineyard," the banqueting-room fallen down into a stable, and the oak still
linked with the name of Queen Bess.

At Hatfield there was a laudable innovation on the usual round of festivities. From four to
five hundred labourers were regaled on the lawn with a roasted ox and hogsheads of ale.

On the 1st of December, the Queen and Prince, who had been staying at Osborne, paid the Duke
of Norfolk a visit at Arundel. Not only was the Duke the premier duke and Earl-Marshal of England,
but he held at this time the high office in the Household of Master of the Horse. The old keep
and tower at Arundel were brilliantly illuminated in honour of the Queen's presence, and bonfires
lit up the surrounding country. The Duke of Wellington was here also, walking about with the
Queen, while the younger men shot with Prince Albert. On the second day of her stay her Majesty
received guests in the state drawing-room. The third day included the usual commemorative planting
of trees in the Little Park. In the evening there was dancing, in which the Queen joined.

There were great changes, ominous of still further transitions, in the theatrical and literary
world. Liston, the famous comedian who had delighted a former generation, was dead, and amateur
actors, led by authors in the persons of Charles Dickens, Douglas Jerrold, &c. &c., had come
to the front, and were winning much applause, as well as solid benefits for individuals and
institutions connected with literature requiring public patronage. A man and a woman unlike
in everything save their cordial admiration for each other, bore down all opposition in the
reading world: William Makepeace Thackeray, in 1846, in spite of the discouragement of publishers,
started his "Vanity Fair," and Charlotte Bronte, from the primitive seclusion of an old- fashioned
Yorkshire parsonage, took England by storm with her impassioned, unconventional "Jane Eyre."
The fame of these two books, while the authors were still in a great measure unknown, rang
through the country.

Art in England was still following the lines laid down for the last twenty or thirty years,
unless in the case of Turner, who had entered some time before on the third period of his work,
the period marked by defiance and recklessness as well as by noble power.

CHAPTER VI.

INSTALLATION OF PRINCE ALBERT AS CHANCELLOR OF CAMBRIDGE.

One thousand eight hundred and forty-seven began with the climax of the terrible famine in
Ireland, and the Highlands, produced by the potato disease, which, commencing in 1845, had
reappeared even more disastrously in 1846. In the Queen's speech in opening Parliament, she
alluded to the famine in the land with a perceptibly sad fall of her voice.

In spite of bad trade and bad times everywhere, two millions were advanced by the Government
for the relief of the perishing people, fed on doles of Indian meal; yet the mortality in the
suffering districts continued tremendous.

In February, 1847, Lord Campbell describes an amusing scene in the Queen's closet. "I had an
audience, that her Majesty might prick a sheriff for the county of Lancaster, which she did
in proper style, with the bodkin I put into her hand. I then took her pleasure about some Duchy
livings and withdrew, forgetting to make her sign the parchment roll. I obtained a second audience,
and explained the mistake. While she was signing, Prince Albert said to me, 'Pray, my lord,
when did this ceremony of pricking begin?' CAMPBELL. 'In ancient times, sir, when sovereigns
did not know now to write their names.' QUEEN, as she returned me the roll with her signature,
'But we now show we have been to school.'" In the course of the next month his lordship gives
a lively account of dining along with his wife and daughter at Buckingham Palace. "On our arrival,
a little before eight, we were shown into the picture gallery, where the company assembled.
Bowles, who acted as master of the ceremonies, arranged what gentlemen should take what lady.
He said, 'Dinner is ordered to be on the table at ten minutes past eight, but I bet you the
Queen will not be here till twenty or twenty-five minutes after. She always thinks she can
dress in ten minutes, but she takes about double the time.' True enough, it was nearly twenty-five
minutes past eight before she appeared; she shook hands with the ladies, bowed to the gentlemen,
and proceeded to the salle a manger. I had to take in Lady Emily de Burgh, and was third on
her Majesty's right, Prince Edward of Saxe- Weimar and my partner being between us. The greatest
delicacy we had was some very nice oat-cake. There was a Highland piper standing behind her
Majesty's chair, but he did not play as at State dinners. We had likewise some Edinburgh ale.
The Queen came up and talked to me. She does the honours of the palace with infinite grace
and sweetness, and considering what she is both in public and domestic life, I do not think
she is sufficiently loved and respected. Prince Albert took me to task for my impatience to
get into the new House of Lords, but I think I pacified him, complimenting his taste. A dance
followed. The Queen chiefly delighted in a romping sort of country-dance, called the Tempete.
She withdrew a little before twelve."

The beginning of the season in London was marked by two events in the theatrical and operatic
world. Fanny Kemble (Mrs. Pierce Butler) reappeared on the stage, and was warmly welcomed back.
Jenny Lind sang for the first time in London at the Italian Opera House in the part of "Alice"
in Roberto il Diavolo, and enchanted the audience with her unrivalled voice and fine acting.

In the month of May, in the middle of the Irish distress, the great agitator of old, Daniel
O'Connell, died in his seventy-second year, on his way to Rome. The news of his death was received
in Ireland as only one drop more in the full cup of national misery. In the same month of May
another and a very different orator, Dr. Chalmers, the great impassioned Scotch divine, philosopher,
and philanthropist, one of the leaders in the disruption from the Church of Scotland, died
in Edinburgh, in his sixty-eighth year.

Prince Albert had been elected Chancellor of Cambridge University--a well-deserved compliment,
which afforded much gratification both to the Queen and the Prince. They went down to Cambridge
in July for the ceremony of the installation, which was celebrated with all scholarly state
and splendour.

"The Hall of Trinity was the scene of the ceremony for which the visit was paid. Her Majesty
occupied a chair of state on a dais. The Chancellor, the Prince in his official robes, supported
by the Duke of Wellington, Chancellor of Oxford, the Bishop of Oxford, the Vice- Chancellor
of Cambridge, and the Heads of the Houses entered, and the Chancellor read an address to her
Majesty congratulatory on her arrival. Her Majesty made a gracious reply and the Prince retired
with the usual profound obeisances, a proceeding which caused her Majesty some amusement,"
so says the Annual Register. This part of the day's proceedings seems to have made a lively
impression on those who witnessed it.

Bishop Wilberforce gives his testimony. "The Cambridge scene was very interesting. There was
such a burst of loyalty, and it told so on the Queen and Prince. E--- would not then have thought
that he looked cold. It was quite clear that they both felt it as something new that he had
earned, and not she given, a true English honour; and so he looked so pleased and she so triumphant.
There was also some such pretty interludes when he presented the address, and she beamed upon
him and once half smiled, and then covered the smile with a gentle dignity, and then she said
in her clear musical voice, 'The choice which the University has made of its Chancellor has
my most entire approbation.'" Albert went through it all admirably, almost absurd, however,
as it was for us. He gave me the address and I read the answer, and a few kissed hands, and
then Albert retired with the University."

After luncheon a Convocation was held in the Senate House, at which the Queen was present as
a visitor. The Prince, as Chancellor, received her at the door, and led her to the seat prepared
for her. "He sat covered in his Chancellor's chair. There was a perfect roar of applause,"
which we are told was only tamed down within the bounds of sanity by the dulness of the Latin
oration, delivered by the public orator. Besides the princes already mentioned, and several
noblemen and gentlemen, Sir George Grey, Sir Harry Smith (of Indian fame), Sir Roderick Murchison,
and Professor Muller, received university honours.

Her Majesty and the new Chancellor dined with the Vice-Chancellor at Catherine Hall--probably
selected for the honour because it was a small college, and could only accommodate a select
party. After dinner her Majesty attended a concert in the Senate House--an entertainment got
up in order to afford the Cambridge public another opportunity of seeing their Queen. Later
the Prince went to the Observatory, and her Majesty walked in the cool of the evening in the
little garden of Trinity Lodge, with her two ladies.

The following day the royal party again went to the Senate House, the Prince receiving the
Queen, and conducting her as before to her seat. With the accompaniment of a tremendous crowd,
great heat, and thunders of applause, the prize poems were read, and the medals distributed
by the Prince. Then came the time for the "Installation Ode," written at the Prince's request
by Wordsworth, the poet laureate, set to music, and sung in Trinity Hall in the presence of
the Queen and Prince Albert with great effect. Poetry, of all created things, can least be
made to order; yet the ode had many fine passages and telling lines, besides the recommendation
claimed for it by Baroness Bunsen: "The Installation Ode I thought quite affecting, because
the selection of striking points was founded on fact, and all exaggeration and humbug were
avoided."

The poem touched first on what was so prominent a feature in the history of Europe in the poet's
youth--the evil of unrighteous and the good of righteous war, identifying the last with the
successes of England when Napoleon was overthrown.

  Such is Albion's fame and glory,
  Let rescued Europe tell the story

Then the measure changes to a plaintive strain.

  But lo! what sudden cloud has darkened all
  The land as with a funeral pall?
  The rose of England suffers blight,
  The flower has drooped, the isle's delight
  Flower and bud together fall,
  A nation's hopes he crushed in Claremont's desolate hall

Hope and cheer return to the song.

  Time a chequered mantle wears,
  Earth awakes from wintry sleep,
  Again the tree a blossom bears
  Cease, Britannia, cease to weep,
  Hark to the peals on this bright May morn,
  They tell that your future Queen is born

A little later is the fine passage--

  Time in his mantle's sunniest fold
  Uplifted on his arms the child,
  And while the fearless infant smiled
  Her happy destiny foretold
  Infancy, by wisdom mild,
  Trained to health and artless beauty,
  Youth by pleasure unbeguiled
  From the lore of lofty duty,
  Womanhood, in pure renown
  Seated on her lineal throne,
  Leaves of myrtle in her crown
  Fresh with lustre all their own,
  Love, the treasure worth possessing
  More than all the world beside,
  This shall be her choicest blessing,
  Oft to royal hearts denied.

After a brief period of rest, which meant a little quiet "reading, writing, working, and drawing"--a
far better sedative for excited nerves than entire idleness--the Queen and the Prince attended
a flower-show in the grounds of Downing College, walking round the gardens and entering into
all the six tents, "a very formidable undertaking, for the heat was beyond endurance and the
crowd fearful." In the evening there was a great dinner in Trinity Hall. "Splendid did that
great hall look," is Baroness Bunsen's admiring exclamation; "three hundred and thirty people
at various tables ... the Queen and her immediate suite at a table at the raised end of the
hall, all the rest at tables lengthways. At the Queen's table the names were put on the places,
and anxious was the moment before one could find one's place." Then the Queen gave a reception
in Henry VIII.'s drawing-room, when the masters, professors and doctors, with their wives,
were presented. When the reception was over, at ten o'clock, in the soft dim dusk, a little
party again stole out, to see with greater leisure and privacy those noble trees and hoary
buildings. Her Majesty tells us the pedestrians were in curious costumes: "Albert in his dress-coat
with a mackintosh over it, I in my evening dress and diadem, and with a veil over my head,
and the two princes in their uniforms, and the ladies in their dresses and shawls and veils.
We walked through the small garden, and could not at first find our way, after which we discovered
the right road, and walked along the beautiful avenues of lime-trees in the grounds of St.
John's College, along the water and over the bridges. All was so pretty and picturesque, in
particular the one covered bridge of St. John's College, which is like the Bridge of Sighs
at Venice. We stopped to listen to the distant hum of the town; and nothing seemed wanting
but some singing, which everywhere but here in this country we should have heard. A lattice
opened, and we could fancy a lady appearing and listening to a serenade."

Shade of quaint old Fuller! thou who hast described with such gusto Queen Elizabeth's five
days' stay at Cambridge, what wouldst thou not have given, hadst thou lived in the reign of
Victoria, to have been in her train this night? Shades more formidable of good Queen Bess herself,
Bluff King Hal, Margaret Countess of Richmond, and that other unhappy Margaret of Anjou, what
would you have said of this simple ramble? In truth it was a scene from the world of romance,
even without the music and the lady at the lattice. An ideal Queen and an ideal Prince, a thin
disguise over the tokens of their magnificence, stealing out with their companions, like so
many ghosts, to enjoy common sights and experiences and the little thrill of adventure in the
undetected deed.

On the last morning there was a public breakfast in the grounds of Trinity College, attended
by thousands of the county gentry of Cambridge and Lincolnshire. "At one the Queen set out
through the cloisters and hall and library of Trinity College, to pass through the gardens
and avenues, which had been connected for the occasion by a temporary bridge over the river,
with those of St. John's." Madame Bunsen and her companions followed her Majesty, and had the
best opportunity of seeing everything, and in particular "the joyous crowd that grouped among
the noble trees." The Queen ate her dejeuner in one of the tents, and on her return to Trinity
Lodge, she and Prince Albert left Cambridge at three o'clock for London. Baroness Bunsen winds
up her graphic descriptions with the statement, "I could still tell much of Cambridge-- of
the charm of its 'trim gardens,' of how the Queen looked and was pleased, and how well she
was dressed, and how perfect in grace and movement."

CHAPTER VII.

THE QUEEN'S VISIT TO THE WESTERN ISLANDS OP SCOTLAND AND STAY AT ARDVERIKIE.

On the 11th of August her Majesty and Prince Albert, with the Prince of Wales, the Princess
Royal, and the Prince of Leiningen, attended by a numerous suite, left Osborne in the royal
yacht for Scotland. They followed a new route and succeeded, in spite of the fogs in the Channel,
in reaching the Scilly Isles. The voyage, to begin with, was not a pleasant one. There had
been a rough swell on the sea as well as fogs off shore. The children, and especially the Queen,
on this occasion suffered from sea-sickness. However, her Majesty landed on the tiny island
of St. Mary's.

As the royal party approached Wales the sea became calmer and the sailing enjoyable. The yacht
and its companions lay in the great harbour of Milford Haven, under the reddish-brown cliffs.
Prince Albert and the Prince of Leiningen went to Pembroke, while the Queen sat on the deck
and sketched.

On a beautiful Sunday the Queen sailed through the Menai Straits in the Fairy, when the sight
of "Snowdon rising splendidly in the middle of the fields and woods was glorious." The "grand
old Castle of Caernarvon" attracted attention; so did Plas Newydd, where her Majesty had spent
six weeks, when she had visited Wales as Princess Victoria, in one of her girlish excursions
with the Duchess of Kent. The Isle of Man, with the town of Douglas, surmounted by bold hills
and cliffs, a castle and a lighthouse, looked abundantly picturesque, but the landing there
was reserved for the return of the voyagers, though it was on this occasion that a tripping
Manxman described Prince Albert, in a local newspaper, as leading the Prince Regent by the
hand; a slip which drew from the Prince the gay rejoinder that "usually one has a regent for
an infant, but in Man it seems to be precisely the reverse."

The Mull of Galloway was the first Scotch land that was sighted, and just before entering Loch
Ryan the huge rock, Ailsa Craig, with its moving clouds of sea-fowl, rose to view.

Arran and Goatfell, Bute and the Bay of Rothesay, were alike hailed with delight. But the islands
were left behind for the moment, till more was seen of the Clyde, and Greenock, of sugar-refining
and boat- building fame, was reached. It was her Majesty's first visit to the west coast of
Scotland, and Glasgow poured "down the water" her magistrates, her rich merchants, her stalwart
craftsmen, her swarms from the Gorbels and the Saut Market, the Candle-rigs and the Guse- dibs.
Multitudes lined the quays. No less than forty steamers over- filled with passengers struggled
zealously in the wake of royalty. "Amidst boats and ships of every description moving in all
directions," the little Fairy cut its way through, bound for Dumbarton.

On the Queen's return to Greenock she sailed past Roseneath, and followed the windings of Loch
Long, getting a good view of the Cobbler, the rugged mountain which bears a fantastic resemblance
to a man mending a shoe. At the top of the loch, Ben Lomond came in sight. "There was no sun,
and twice a little mist; but still it was beautiful," wrote the Queen.

On "a bright fresh morning" in August, when the hills were just "slightly tipped with clouds,"
the Queen sailed through the Kyles of Bute, that loveliest channel between overtopping mountains,
and entered Loch Fyne, another fine arm of the sea, of herring celebrity.

A Highland welcome awaited the Queen at the little landing-place of Inverary, made gay and
fragrant with heather. Old friends, whom she was honouring by her presence, waited to receive
her, the Duke and Duchess of Argyle--the latter the eldest daughter of the Duchess of Sutherland,
who was also present with her son, Lord Stafford, her unmarred daughter, Lady Caroline Leveson-Gower,
and her son-in-law and second daughter, Lord and Lady Blantyre. An innocent warder stood in
front of the old feudal keep. In the course of the Queen's visit to Germany she had made the
acquaintance, without dreaming of what lay concealed in the skirts of time, of one of her future
sons-in-law in a fine little boy of eight years. Now her Majesty was to be introduced, without
a suspicion of what would be the result of the introduction, to the coming husband of another
daughter still unborn. Here is the Queen's description of the son and heir of the house of
Argyle, who was yet to win a princess for his bride. "Outside, stood the Marquis of Lorne,
just two years old--a dear, white, fat, fair little fellow, with reddish hair but very delicate
features, like both his mother and father; he is such a merry, independent little child. He
had a black velvet dress and jacket, with a 'sporran,' scarf, and Highland bonnet."

Her Majesty lunched at the castle, "the Highland gentlemen standing with halberts in the room,"
and returned to the Fairy, sailing down Loch Fyne when the afternoon was at its mellowest,
and the long shadows were falling across the hillsides. At five Lochgilphead was reached, when
Sir John Orde lent his carriage to convey the visitors to the Crinan Canal. The next day's
sail, in beautiful weather still, was through the clusters of the nearest of the western islands,
up the Sound of Jura, amidst a flotilla of small boats crowned with flags. Here were fresh
islands and mountain peaks, until the strangers were within hail of Staffa.

It is not always that an approach to this northern marvel of nature is easy or even practicable;
but fortune favours the brave. Her Majesty has described the landing. "At three we anchored
close before Staffa, and immediately got into the barge, with Charles, the children, and the
rest of our people, and rowed towards the cave. As we rounded the point the wonderful basaltic
formation came into sight. The appearance it presents is most extraordinary, and when we turned
the corner to go into the renowned Fingal's Cave the effect was splendid, like a great entrance
into a vaulted hall; it looked almost awful as we entered, and the barge heaved up and down
on the swell of the sea. It is very high, but not longer than two hundred and twenty-seven
feet, and narrower than I expected, being only forty feet wide. The sea is immensely deep in
the cave. The rocks under water were all colours-- pink, blue, and green, which had a most
beautiful and varied effect. It was the first time the British standard, with a queen of Great
Britain and her husband and children, had ever entered Fingal's Cave, and the men gave three
cheers, which sounded very impressive there."

On the following day the Atlantic rains had found the party, though for the present the affliction
was temporary. It poured for three hours, during which her Majesty drew and painted in her
cabin. The weather cleared in the afternoon; sitting on the deck was again possible, and Loch
Linnhe, Loch Eil, and the entrance to Loch Leven were not lost.

At Fort William the Queen was to quit the yacht and repair to the summer quarters of Ardverikie.
Before doing so she recorded her regret that "this delightful voyage and tour among the western
lochs and isles is at an end; they are so beautiful and so full of poetry and romance, traditions
and historical associations."

Rain again, more formidable than before, on Saturday, the 21st of August. It was amidst a hopeless
drenching drizzle, which blots out the chief features of a landscape, that the Queen went ashore,
to find "a great gathering of Highlanders in their different tartans" met to do her honour.
Frasers, Forbeses, Mackenzies, Grants, replaced Campbells, Macdonalds, Macdougals, and Macleans.
By a wild and lonely carriage-road, the latter part resembling Glen Tilt, her Majesty reached
her destination.

Ardverikie, which claimed to have been a hunting-seat of Fergus, king of the Scots, was a shooting
lodge belonging to Lord George Bentinck, rented from him by the Marquis of Abercorn, and lent
by the marquis to the Queen. It has since been burnt down. It was rustic, as a shooting lodge
should be, very much of a large cottage in point of architecture, the bare walls of the principal
rooms characteristically decorated with rough sketches by Landseer, among them a drawing of
"The Stag at Bay," and the whole house bristling with stags' horns of great size and perfection.
In front of the house lay Loch Laggan, eight miles in length.

The Queen remained at Ardverikie for four weeks, and doubtless would have enjoyed the wilds
thoroughly, had it not been for the lowest deep of persistently bad weather, when "it not only
rained and blew, but snowed by way of variety."

Lord Campbell heard and wrote down these particulars of the royal stay at Ardverikie. "The
Queen was greatly delighted with the Highlands in spite of the bad weather, and was accustomed
to sally for a walk in the midst of a heavy rain, putting a great hood ever her bonnet, and
showing nothing of her features but her eyes. The Prince's invariable return to luncheon about
two o'clock, in spite of grouse-shooting and deer-stalking, is explained by his voluntary desire
to please the Queen, and by the intense hunger which always assails him at this hour, when
he likes, in German fashion, to make his dinner."

In a continuance of the most dismally unpropitious weather, the Queen and her children left
Ardverikie on the 17th of September, the Prince having preceded her for a night that he might
visit Inverness and the Caledonian Canal. The storm continued, almost without intermission,
during the whole of the voyage home.

CHAPTER VIII.

THE FRENCH FUGITIVES--THE PEOPLE'S CHARTER.

Long before the autumn of 1847, the mischievous consequences of the railway mania, complicated
by the failure of the potato crop, showed itself in great bankruptcies in the large towns all
over the country.

The new year came with trouble on its wings. The impending storm burst all over Europe, first
in France. Louis Philippe's dynasty was overthrown.

In pairs or singly, sometimes wandering aside in a little distraction, so as to be lost sight
of for days, the numerous brothers and sisters, with the parent pair, reached Dreux and Eu,
and thence, with the exception of the Duchesse d'Orleans and her sons, straggled to England.

One can guess the feelings of the Queen and Prince Albert when they heard that their late hosts,
doubly allied to them by kindred ties, were fugitives, seeking refuge from the hospitality
of a foreign nation. And the first confused tidings of the French revolution which reached
the Queen and Prince Albert were rendered more trying, by the almost simultaneous announcement
of the death of the old Dowager- Duchess of Gotha, to whom all her grandchildren were so much
attached.

The ex-King and Queen arrived at Newhaven, Louis Philippe bearing the name of Mr. Smith. Queen
Victoria had already written to King Leopold on the 1st of March: "About the King and Queen
(Louis Philippe and Queen Amelie) we still know nothing.... We do everything we can for the
poor family, who are, indeed, sorely to be pitied. It will not be pleasant to do this, but
the public good and the peace of Europe go before one's personal feelings."

As soon as it could be arranged under the circumstances, the Queen had an interview with the
exiles. What a meeting after the last parting, and all that had come to pass in the interval!
This interview took place on the 6th of March, when Louis Philippe came privately to Windsor.

The same intelligent chronicler, Lady Lyttelton, who gave such a graphic account of the Citizen-King's
first visit to Windsor, had also to photograph the second. Once more she uses with reason the
word "historical." "To-day is historical, Louis Philippe having come from Claremont to pay
a private (very private) visit to the Queen. She is really enviable now, to have in her power
and in her path of duty, such a boundless piece of charity and beneficent hospitality. The
reception by the people of England of all the fugitives has been beautifully kind."

That day the Queen wrote sadly to Baron Stockmar: "I am quite well; indeed, particularly so,
though God knows we have had since the 25th enough for a whole life--anxiety, sorrow, excitement;
in short, I feel as if we had jumped over thirty years' experience at once. The whole face
of Europe is changed, and I feel as if I lived in a dream." She added, with the tenderness
of a generous nature, referring to the very different circumstances in which her regard for
the Orleans house had been established, and to the alienation which had arisen between her
and some of its members: "You know my love for the family; you know how I longed to get of
terms with them again ... and you said, 'Time will alone, but will certainly, bring it about.'
Little did I dream that this would be the way we should meet again and see each other, all
in the most friendly way. That the Duchesse de Montpensier, about whom we have been quarrelling
for the last year, and a half, should be here as a fugitive and dressed in the clothes I sent
her, and should come to thank me for my kindness, is a reverse of fortune which no novelist
would devise, and upon which one could moralise for ever."

It was a comfort to the Queen and Prince Albert that Belgium, which had at first appeared in
the greatest danger, ended by standing almost alone on the side of its King and Government.

The tide of revolution, which swept over the greater states, did not spare the small. The Duke
of Coburg-Gotha's subjects, who had seemed so happily situated and so contented at the time
of the Queen's visit, were in a ferment like the rest of their countrymen. Bellona's hot breath
was in danger of withering the flowers of that Arcadia. The Princes of Leiningen and Hohenlohe,
the Queen's brother and brother- in-law, were practically dispossessed of seigneurial rights
and lands, and ruined. The Princess of Hohenlohe wrote to her sister: "We are undone, and must
begin a new existence of privations, which I don't care for, but for poor Ernest" (her husband)
"I feel it more than I can say."

In the meantime, on the 18th of March a fourth English Princess was born. There was more than
usual congratulation on the safety and well- being of mother and child, because of the great
shocks which had tried the Queen previously, and the anxiety which filled all thoughtful minds
for the result of the crisis in England. Her Majesty's courage rose to the occasion. She wrote
to King Leopold in little more than a fortnight: "I heard all that passed, and my only thoughts
and talk were political. But I never was calmer or quieter, or less nervous. Great events make
one calm; it is only trifles that irritate my nerves."

England had its own troubles and was in high excitement about an increased grant of money for
the support of the army and navy, and the continuance of the income-tax. The Chartists threatened
to make a great demonstration on Kennington Common.

The first threat in London, for the 13th of March, a few days before the birth of the little
Princess, ended in utter failure. The happy termination was assisted by the state of the weather,
great falls of rain anticipating the work of large bodies of police prepared to scatter the
crowd. But as another demonstration, with the avowed intention of walking in procession to
present to the House of Commons a monster petition, miles long, for the granting of the People's
Charter, was announced to take place on the 10th of April, great uncertainty, and agitation
filled the public mind. It was judged advisable that the Queen should go to the Isle of Wight
for a short stay at Osborne, though it was still not more than three weeks since her confinement.

The second demonstration collapsed like the first. Only a fraction-- not more than twenty-three
thousand of the vast multitude expected to appear--assembled at the meeting-place, and the
people dispersed quietly. But it is only necessary to mention the precautions employed to show
how great had been the alarm. The Duke of Wellington devised and conducted the steps which
were taken beforehand. On the bridges were massed bodies of foot and horse police, and special
constables, of whom nearly two hundred thousand--one of them Prince Louis Napoleon, the future
Emperor of the French--are said to have been sworn in. In the immediate neighbourhood of each
bridge strong forces of military, while kept out of sight, were ready "for instant movement."
Two regiments of the line were at Millbank Penitentiary, twelve hundred infantry at Deptford
Dockyard, and thirty pieces of heavy field ordnance at the Tower prepared for transport by
hired steamers to any spot where help might be required. Bodies of troops were posted in unexpected
quarters, as in the area of the untenanted Rose Inn yard, but within call. The public offices
at Somerset House and in the City were liberally supplied with arms. Places like the Bank of
England were "packed" with troops and artillery, and furnished with sand-bag parapets for their
walls, and wooden barricades with loopholes for firing through, for their windows.

"Thank God," her Majesty wrote to the King of the Belgians, "the Chartist meeting and procession
have turned out a complete failure. The loyalty of the people at large, has been very striking,
and their indignation at their peace being interfered with by such wanton and worthless men
immense."

Never was cheerfulness more wanted to lighten a burden of work and care. In this year of trouble
"no less than twenty-eight thousand dispatches were received or sent out from the Foreign Office."
All these dispatches came to the Queen and Prince Albert, as well as to Lord Palmerston, the
Minister for Foreign Affairs.

Across the Channel the inflammatory speeches and writings of Messrs. Mitchel, Meagher, and
Smith O'Brien became so treasonable in tone that, after the passing of a Bill in Parliament
for the better repression of sedition, the three Irish leaders were arrested and brought to
trial, the jury refusing to commit in the case of Meagher and Smith O'Brien, but in that of
Mitchel, who was tried separately, finding him guilty, and sentencing him to transportation
for fourteen years.

On the 2nd of May the Court returned to Buckingham Palace, and the baptism of the infant princess
took place on the 13th, in the private chapel of Buckingham Palace, when the Archbishop of
Canterbury officiated. The sponsors were Duke Augustus of Mecklenburg-Schwerin, represented
by Prince Albert, and the Duchess of Saxe-Meiningen and the Grand-Duchess of Mecklenburg-Strelitz,
represented by the Queen- dowager and the Duchess of Cambridge. The names given to the child
were, "Louise Caroline Alberta," the first and last for the child's grandmother on the father's
side and for the royal father himself. A chorale was performed, which the Prince had adapted
from an earlier composition written to the hymn--

  In life's gay morn, ere sprightly youth
    By vice and folly is enslaved,
  Oh! may thy Maker's glorious name
    Be on thy infant mind engraved;
  So shall no shades of sorrow cloud
    The sunshine of thy early days,
  But happiness, in endless round,
    Shall still encompass all thy ways.

Bishop Wilberforce describes the scene. "The royal christening was a very beautiful sight,
in its highest sense of that word 'beauty.' The Queen, with the five royal children around
her, the Prince of Wales and Princess Royal hand-in-hand, all kneeling down quietly and meekly
at every prayer, and the little Princess Helena alone, just standing, and looking round with
the blue eyes of gazing innocence."

When the statues of the royal children were executed by Mrs. Thornycroft, Princess Helena was
modelled as Peace. The engraving is a representation of the graceful piece of sculpture, in
which a slender young girl, wearing a long loose robe and having sandalled feet, holds the
usual emblematic branch and cluster--one in each hand.

As one Princess was born, another of a former generation, whose birth had been hailed with
equal rejoicing, passed away, on the 27th of May, immediately after the Birthday Drawing-room.
Princess Sophia, the youngest surviving daughter and twelfth child of George III. and Queen
Charlotte, died in her arm-chair in the drawing-room of her house at Kensington, aged seventy-one.
At her own request she was buried at Kensal Green, where the Duke of Sussex was interred.

CHAPTER IX.

THE QUEEN'S FIRST STAY AT BALMORAL.

From France, in June, came the grievous news of the three days' fighting in the streets of
Paris, because no Government provision could secure work and bread for the artisans. The insurrection
was only put down by martial law under the Dictator, General Cavaignac.

In Sardinia the King, Charles Albert, fighting gallantly against the Austrian rule, was defeated
once and again, and driven back.

In England, though the most swaggering of the Chartists still blustered a little, attention
could be given to more peaceful concerns. In July Prince Albert went to York, though he could
"ill be spared" from the Queen's side in those days of startling events and foreign turmoil,
to be present at a meeting of the Royal Agricultural Society, of which he had been governor
for half-a-dozen years. The acclamations with which the Prince was received, were only the
echo of the tempest of cheers which greeted and encouraged her Majesty every time she appeared
in public this year.

In August strong measures had again to be taken in Ireland. These included the gathering together
of a great military force in the disturbed districts, and the assemblage of a fleet of war-steamers
on the coast. As in the previous instance, little or no resistance was offered. In the course
of a few days the former leaders, Meagher, Smith O'Brien, and Mitchel, were arrested. They
were brought to trial in Dublin, convicted of high treason, and sentenced to death--a sentence
commuted into transportation for life.

The Queen had the pleasure of finding her brother, the Prince of Leiningen, appointed head
of the department of foreign affairs in the short-lived Frankfort assembly of the German states.
It showed at least the respect in which he was held by his countrymen.

On the 5th of September the Queen went in person to prorogue Parliament, which had sat for
ten months. The ceremony took place in the new House of Lords. There was an unusually large
and brilliant company present on this occasion, partly to admire the "lavish paint and gilding,"
the stained-glass windows, with likenesses of kings and queens, and Dyce's and Maclise's frescoes,
partly to enjoy the emphatically-delivered sentence in the royal speech, in which the Queen
acknowledged, "with grateful feelings, the many marks of loyalty and attachment which she had
received from all classes of her people."

The Queen and the Prince, with three of their children and the suite, sailed from Woolwich
for a new destination in Scotland--a country- house or little castle, which they had so far
made their own, since the Prince, acting on the advice of Sir James Clark, the Queen's physician,
had acquired the lease from the Earl of Aberdeen.

The royal party were in Aberdeen Harbour at eight o'clock in the morning of the 7th September.
On the 8th Balmoral was reached. The first impression was altogether agreeable. Her Majesty
has described the place, as it appeared to her, in her Journal. "We arrived at Balmoral at
a quarter to three.

During the first stay of the Court at Balmoral, the Queen has chronicled the ascent of a mountain.
On Saturday, the 16th of September, as early as half-past nine in the morning, her Majesty
and Prince Albert drove in a postchaise four miles to the bridge in the wood of Ballochbuie,
where ponies and guides awaited them. Macdonald, a keeper of Farquharson of Invercauld's and
afterwards in the service of the Prince, a tall, handsome man, whom the Queen describes as
"looking like a picture in his shooting-jacket and kilt," and Grant, the head-keeper at Balmoral,
on a pony, with provisions in two baskets, were the chief attendants.

Through the wood and over moss, heather, and stones, sometimes riding, sometimes walking; Prince
Albert irresistibly attracted to stalk a deer, in vain; across the stony little burn, where
the faithful Highlanders piloted her Majesty, walking and riding again, when Macdonald led
the bridle of the beast which bore so precious a burden; the views "very beautiful," but alas!
mist on the brow of Loch-na-gar. Prince Albert making a detour after ptarmigan, leaving the
Queen in the safe keeping of her devoted guides, to whom she refers so kindly as "taking the
greatest care of her." Even "poor Batterbury," the English groom, who seems to have cut rather
a ridiculous figure in his thin boots and gaiters and non-enjoyment of the expedition, "was
very anxious also" for the well-being of his royal lady, whose tastes must have struck him
as eccentric, to say the least.

The mist intensified the cold when the citadel mountain was reached, so that it must have been
a relief to try a spell of walking once more, especially as the first part of the way was "soft
and easy," while the party looked down on the two lochans, known as Na Nian. Who that has any
knowledge of the mountains cannot recall the effect of these solitary tarns, like well-eyes
in the wilderness, gleaming in the sunshine, dark in the gloom? The Prince, good mountaineer
as he was, grew glad to remount his pony and let the docile, sure-footed creature pick its
steps through the gathering fog, which was making the ascent an adventure not free from danger.

Everything not within a hundred yards was hidden. The last and steepest part of the mountain
(three thousand seven hundred and seventy-seven feet from the sea-level) was accomplished on
foot, and at two o'clock, after four hours' riding and walking, a seat in a little nook where
luncheon could be taken was found; for, unfortunately, there was no more to be done save to
seek rest and refreshment. There was literally nothing to be seen, in place of the glorious
panorama which a mountain-top in favourable circumstances presents.

This was that "dark Loch-na-gar" whose "steep frowning glories" Lord Byron rendered famous,
for which he dismissed with scorn, "gay landscapes and gardens of roses."

No doubt the snowflakes, in corries on the mountain-side, do look deliciously cool on a hot
summer day. But such a drizzling rain as this was the other side of the picture, which her
Majesty, with a shiver, called "cold, wet, and cheerless." In addition to the rain the wind
began to blow a hurricane, which, after all, in the case of a fog was about the kindest thing
the wind could do, whether or not the spirits of heroes were in the gale.

At twenty minutes after two the party set out on their descent of the mountain. The two keepers,
moving on as pioneers in the gloom, "looked like ghosts." When walking became too exhausting,
the Queen, "well wrapped in plaids," was again mounted on her pony, which she declared "went
delightfully," though the mist caused the rider "to feel cheerless."

In the course of the next couple of hours, after a thousand feet of the descent had been achieved,
by one of those abrupt transitions which belong to such a landscape, the mist below vanished
as if by magic, and it was again, summer sunshine around.

But the world could not be altogether shut out at Balmoral, and the echoes which came from
afar, this year, were of a sufficiently disturbing character. Among the most notable, Sir Theodore
Martin mentions the Frankfort riots, in which two members of the German States Union were assassinated,
and the startling death of the Conservative leader, Lord George Bentinck, who had suddenly
exchanged the role of the turf for that of Parliament, and come to the front during the struggle
over the abolition of the Corn Laws.

A third strangely significant omen was the election of Prince Louis Napoleon, by five different
French Departments, as a deputy to the new French Chamber.

The Court left Balmoral on the 28th of September, stayed one night in London, and then proceeded
for ten days to Osborne. On the return of the Queen and the Prince to Windsor, on the 9th of
October, a sad accident occurred in their sight. As the yacht was crossing on a misty and stormy
day to Portsmouth, she passed near the frigate Grampus, which had just come back from her station
in the Pacific. In their eagerness to meet their relations among the crew on board, five unfortunate
women had gone out in an open boat rowed by two watermen, though the foul-weather flag was
flying. "A sudden squall swamped the boat" without attracting the attention of anyone on board
the Grampus or the yacht. But one of the watermen, who was able to cling to the overturned
boat, was seen by the men in a Custom-house boat, who immediately aroused the indignation of
Lord Adolphus Fitzclarence and his brother-officers by steering, apparently without any reason,
right across the bows of the Fairy. Prince Albert, who was on deck, was the first to discover
the cause of the inexplicable conduct of the men in the Custom-house boat. "He called out that
he saw a man in the water;" the Queen hurried out of her pavilion, and distinguished a man
on what turned out to be the keel of a boat. "Oh dear! there are more!" cried Prince Albert
in horror, "which quite overcame me," the Queen wrote afterwards. "The royal yacht was stopped
and one of its boats lowered, which picked up three of the women--one of them alive and clinging
to a plank, the others dead." The storm was violent, and the responsibility of keeping the
yacht exposed to its fury lay with Lord Adolphus. Since nothing further could be attempted
for the victims of their own rashness, he did not think it right that the yacht should stay
for the return of the boat, as he held the delay unsafe, although both the Queen and the Prince,
with finer instincts, were anxious this should be done. "We could not stop," wrote her Majesty
again, full of pity. "It was a dreadful moment, too horrid to describe. It is a consolation
to think we were of some use, and also that, even if the yacht had remained, they could not
have done more. Still, we all keep feeling we might, though I think we could not.... It is
a terrible thing, and haunts me continually."

The Magyar War under Kossuth was raging in Hungary. In the far-away Punjab the Sikh War, in
which Lieutenant Edwardes had borne so gallant a part in the beginning of the year, was still
prolonged, with Mooltan always the bone of contention.

In October all aristocratic England was excited by the sale of the Art treasures of Stowe,
which lasted for forty days. Mrs. Gaskell made a fine contribution to literature in her novel
of "Mary Barton," in which genius threw its strong light on Manchester life.

The Queen had a private theatre fitted up this year in the Rubens Room, Windsor Castle. The
first of the dramatis personae in the best London theatres went down and acted before the Court,
giving revivals of Shakespeare--which it was hoped would improve the taste for the higher drama--varied
by lighter pieces.

On the 24th of November the Queen heard of the death of her former Minister and counsellor
William Lamb, Viscount Melbourne. "Truly and sincerely," her Majesty wrote in her Journal,
"do I deplore the loss of one who was a most disinterested friend of mine, and most sincerely
attached to me. He was, indeed, for the first two years and a half of my reign, almost the
only friend I had, except Stockmar and Lehzen, and I used to see him constantly, daily. I thought
much and talked much of him all day."

CHAPTER X.

PUBLIC AND DOMESTIC INTERESTS--FRESH ATTACK UPON THE QUEEN.

The Queen and the Prince were now pledged--alike by principle and habit--to hard work. They
were both early risers, but before her Majesty joined Prince Albert in their sitting-room,
where their writing-tables stood side by side, we are told he had already, even in winter,
by the light of the green German lamp which he had introduced into England, prepared many papers
to be considered by her Majesty, and done everything in his power to lighten her labours as
a sovereign.

Lord Campbell describes an audience which he had from the Queen in February. "I was obliged
to make an excursion to Windsor on Saturday, and have an audience before Prince Albert's lunch.
I was with the Queen in her closet, solus cum sola. But I should first tell you my difficulty
about getting from the station at Slough to the Castle. When we go down for a council we have
a special train and carriages provided for us. I consulted Morpeth, who answered, 'I can only
tell you how I went last--on the top of an omnibus; but the Queen was a little shocked.' I
asked how she found it out. He said he had told her himself to amuse her, but that I should
be quite en regle by driving up in a fly or cab. So I drove up in my one horse conveyance,
and the lord-in-waiting announced my arrival to her Majesty. I was shown into the royal closet,
a very small room with one window, and soon she entered by another door all alone. My business
was the appointment of a sheriff for the County Palatine, which was soon despatched. We then
talked of the state of the finances of the Duchy, and I ventured to offer her my felicitations
on the return of this auspicious day--her wedding-day. I lunched with the maids of honour,
and got back in time to take a part in very important deliberations in the Cabinet."

In February, 1849, the Queen opened Parliament in person. Perhaps the greatest source of anxiety
was now the Sikh War, in which the warlike tribes were gaining advantages over the English
troops, though Mooltan had been reduced the previous month. A drawn battle was fought between
Lord Gough's force and that of Chuttar Singh at Chillianwallah. While the English were not
defeated, their losses in men, guns and standards were sore and humiliating to the national
pride. Sir Charles Napier was ordered out, and, in spite of bad health, obeyed the order. But
in the meantime Lord Gough had retrieved his losses by winning at Goojerat a great victory
over the Sikhs and Afghans, which in the end compelled the surrender of the enemy, with the
restoration of the captured guns and standards. On the 29th of March the kingdom of the Punjaub
was proclaimed as existing no longer, and the State was annexed to British India; while the
beneficial influence of Edwardes and the Lawrences rendered the wild Sikhs more loyal subjects,
in a future time of need, than the trained and petted Sepoy mercenaries proved themselves.

On the afternoon of the 19th of May, after the Queen had held one of her most splendid Drawing-rooms,
when she was driving in a carriage with three of her children up Constitution Hill, she was
again fired at by a man standing within the railings of the Green Park. Prince Albert was on
horseback, so far in advance that he did not know what had occurred, till told of it by the
Queen when he assisted her to alight. But her Majesty did not lose her perfect self-possession.
She stood up, motioned to the coachman, who had stopped the carriage for an instant, to go
on, and then diverted the children's attention by talking to them. The man who had fired was
immediately arrested. Indeed, he would have been violently assaulted by the mob, had he not
been protected by the police. He proved to be an Irishman, named Hamilton, from Limerick, who
had come over from Ireland five years before, and worked as a bricklayer's labourer and a navvy
both in England and France. Latterly he had been earning a scanty livelihood by doing chance
jobs. There was this to distinguish him from the other dastardly assailants of the Queen: he
was not a half-crazed, morbidly conceited boy, though he also had no conceivable motive for
what he did. He appears to have taken his measures, in providing himself with pistol and powder,
from a mere impulse of stolid brutality. His pistol contained no ball, so that he was tried
under the Felon's Act, which had been provided for such offences, and sentenced to seven years'
transportation.

The education of their children was a subject of much thought and care to the Queen and Prince
Albert. Her Majesty wrote various memoranda on the question which was of such interest to her.
Some of these are preserved in the life of the Prince Consort. She dwelt upon a religious training,
and held strongly the conviction that "it is best given to a child, day by day, at its mother's
knee." It was a matter of tender regret to the Queen when "the pressure of public duty" prevented
her from holding this part of her children's education entirely in her own keeping. "It is
already a hard case for me," was the pathetic reflection of the young mother in reference to
the childhood of the Princess Royal, "that my occupations prevent me being with her when she
says her prayers." At the same time the Queen and the Prince had strong opinions on the religious
training which ought to be given to their children, and strove to have them carried out.

Surely these truly reverent, just, and liberal sentiments on the religion to be imparted to
young children must recommend themselves to all earnest, thoughtful parents.

In the accompanying engraving the girl-Princesses, Helena and Louise, who are represented wearing
lilies in the breasts of their frocks, look like sister-lilies--as fresh, pure, and sweet.

In 1849 Mr. Birch, who had been head boy at Eton, taken high honours at Cambridge, and acted
as one of the under masters at Eton, was appointed tutor to the Prince of Wales when the Prince
was eight years of age.

CHAPTER XI.

THE QUEEN'S FIRST VISIT TO IRELAND.

Parliament was prorogued by commission, and the Queen and the Prince, with their four children,
sailed on the 1st of August for Ireland. Lady Lyttelton watching the departing squadron from
the windows of Osborne, wrote with something like dramatic emphasis, "It is done, England's
fate is afloat; we are left lamenting. They hope to reach Cork to-morrow evening, the wind
having gone down and the sky cleared, the usual weather compliment to the Queen's departure."

The voyage was quick but not very pleasant, from the great swell in the sea. At nine o'clock,
on the morning of the 2nd, Land's End was passed, and at eight o'clock in the evening the Cove
of Cork was so near that the bonfires on the hill and the showers of rockets from the ships
in the harbour to welcome the travellers, were distinctly visible. Unfortunately the next day
was gray and "muggy"--a quality which the Queen had been told was characteristic of the Irish
climate. The saluting from the various ships sent a roar through the thick air. The large harbour
with its different islands--one of them containing a convict prison, another a military depot--looked
less cheerful than it might have done. The captains of the war-steamers came on board to pay
their respects; so did the Lord-Lieutenant, Lord Bandon, and the commanders of the forces at
Cork. Prince Albert landed, but the Queen wrote and sketched till after luncheon. The delay
was lucky, for the sun broke out with splendour in the afternoon. The Fairy, with its royal
freight, surrounded by rowing and sailing boats, went round the harbour, all the ships saluting,
and then entered Cove, and lay alongside the gaily-decorated crowded pier. The members, for
Cork, the clergymen of all denominations, and the yacht club presented addresses, "after which,"
wrote the Queen, "to give the people the satisfaction of calling the place 'Queenstown,' in
honour of its being the first spot on which I set foot upon Irish ground, I stepped on shore
amid the roar of cannon (for the artillery was placed so close as quite to shake the temporary
room which we entered), and the enthusiastic shouts of the people.".

The Fairy lay alongside the pier of Cork proper, and the Queen received more deputations and
addresses, and conferred the honour of knighthood on the Lord Mayor. The two judges, who were
holding their courts, came on board in their robes.

Then her Majesty landed and entered Lord Bandon's carriage, accompanied by Prince Albert and
her ladies, Lord Bandon and General Turner riding one on each side. The Mayor went in front,
and many people in carriages and on horseback joined the royal cortege, which took two hours
in passing through the densely-crowded streets and under the triumphal arches. Everything went
well and the reception was jubilant. To her Majesty Cork looked more like a foreign than an
English town. She was struck by the noisy but good-natured crowd, the men very "poorly, often-raggedly,
dressed," many wearing blue coats and knee-breeches with blue stockings. They wear no bonnets,
and generally long blue cloaks."

Re-embarking at Cork, the visitors sailed to Waterford, arriving in the course of the afternoon.

The travellers sailed again at half-past eight in the morning, having at first a rough passage,
with its usual unacceptable accompaniment of sea-sickness, but near Wexford the sea became
gradually smooth, and there was a fine evening. At half-past six Dublin Bay came in sight.
The war-steamers, four in number, waiting for her Majesty, were at their post. Escorted by
this squadron, the yacht "steamed slowly and majestically" into Kingstown Harbour, which was
full of ships, while the quays were lined with thousands of spectators cheering lustily. The
sun was setting as this stately "procession of boats" entered the harbour, and her Majesty
describes in her Journal "the glowing light" which lit up the surrounding country and the fine
buildings, increasing the beauty of the scene.

Next morning, while the royal party were at breakfast, the yacht was brought up to the wharf
lined with troops. The Lord-Lieutenant, Lord Clarendon, and Lady Clarendon, Prince George of
Cambridge, Lords Lansdowne and Clanricarde, the Archbishop of Dublin, &c. &c., came on board,
an address was presented from the county by the Earl of Charlemont, to which a written reply
was given. At ten Lord Clarendon, bowing low, stepped before the Queen on the gangway, Prince
Albert led her Majesty on shore, the youthful princes and princesses and the rest of the company
following, the ships saluting so that the very ground shook with the heavy 68-pounders, the
bands playing, the guard of honour presenting arms, the multitude huzzaing, the royal standard
floating out on the breeze.

Along a covered way, lined with ladies and gentlemen, and strewn with flowers, the Queen proceeded
to the railway station, and after a quarter of an hour's journey reached Dublin, where she
was met by her own carriages, with the postillions in the Ascot liveries.

The Queen and Prince Albert, the Prince of Wales and the Princess Royal, occupied one carriage,
Prince Alfred and Princess Alice, with the ladies-in-waiting, another. The Commander-in-chief
of the soldiers in Ireland, Sir Edward Blakeney, rode on one side of the Queen's carriage,
Prince George of Cambridge on the other, followed by a brilliant staff and escort of soldiers.
"At the entrance of the city a triumphal arch of great size and beauty had been erected, under
which the civic authorities--Lord Mayor, town-clerk, swordbearer, &c. &c.-- waited on their
sovereign." The Lord Mayor presented the keys and her Majesty returned them.

The Queen admired Dublin heartily, and gave to Sackville Street and Merrion Square their due
meed of praise. At the last triumphal arch a pretty little allegory, like a bit of an ancient
masque, was enacted. Amidst the heat and dust a dove, "alive and very tame, with an olive-
branch round its neck," was let down into the Queen's lap.

The viceregal lodge was reached at noon, and the Queen was received by Lord and Lady Clarendon
and their household.

On the 7th of August, a showery day, the Queen drove into Dublin with her ladies, followed
by the gentlemen, but with no other escort. Her Majesty was loudly cheered as she proceeded
to the bank, the old Parliament House before the Union, where Curran and Grattan and many a
"Monk of the Screw" had debated, "Bloody Toler" had aroused the rage of the populace, and Castlereagh
had looked down icy cold on the burning commotion. The famous Dublin schools were next visited.
Their excellent system of education and liberal tolerant code delighted the Prince. At Trinity
College, with its memories of Dean Swift and "Charley O'Malley," the Queen and the Prince wrote
their names in St. Columba's book, and inspected the harp said to have belonged to "King O'Brian."
After their return to the lodge, when luncheon had been taken, and Prince Albert went into
Dublin again, the Queen refreshed herself with a bit of home life. She wrote and read, and
heard her children say some of their lessons.

At five the Queen drove to Kilmainham Hospital, Lord Clarendon accompanying her and her ladies,
while the Prince and the other gentlemen rode. The Irish Commander-in-chief and Prince George
received her Majesty, who saw and no doubt cheered the hearts of the old pensioners, going
into their chapel, hall, and governor's room. Afterwards she drove again into Dublin, through
the older quarters, College Green--where Mrs. Delany lived when she was yet Mrs. Pendarvis
and the belle of the town, and where there still stands the well- known, often maltreated statue
of William III., Stephen's Green, &c. &c. The crowds were still tremendous.

On the 8th of August, before one o'clock, the Queen and her ladies in evening dress, and Prince
Albert and the gentlemen in uniform, drove straight to the castle, where there was to be a
levee the same as at St. James's. Her Majesty, seated on the throne, received numerous addresses--those
of the Lord Mayor and corporation, the universities, the Archbishop and bishops (Protestant
and Catholic), the different Presbyterians, and the Quakers. No fewer than two thousand presentations
took place, the levee lasting till six o'clock--some five hours.

On the following day there was a review of upwards of six thousand soldiers and police in the
Phoenix Park.

The Queen and the Prince dined alone, but in the course of the evening they drove again into
Dublin, to the castle, that she might hold a Drawing-room. Two or three thousand people were
there; one thousand six hundred ladies were presented. Then her Majesty walked through St.
Patrick's Hall and the other crowded rooms, returning through the densely-filled, illuminated
streets, and the Phoenix Park after midnight.

On the 10th of August, the Queen had a little respite from public duties in a private pleasure.
She and Prince Albert, in company with Lord and Lady Clarendon and the different members of
the suite, went on a short visit to Carton, the seat of "Ireland's only Duke," the Duke of
Leinster. The party passed through Woodlands, with its "beautiful lime-trees," and encountered
a number of Maynooth students near their preparatory college. At Carton the Queen was received
by the Duke and Duchess and their eldest son, the Marquis of Kildare, with his young wife,
Lady Caroline Leveson-Gower, one of the daughters of the Duchess of Sutherland. All the company
walked, to the music of two bands, in the pretty quaint garden with its rows of Irish yews.
Was it the same in 1798, when a son of the Leinster house, after thinking to be a king, was
hunted down in a poor Dublin lodging, fought like a lion for his life, was taken a wounded
prisoner to the castle, and then to Newgate to die?

The Duke led the Queen round the garden, while Prince Albert conducted the Duchess. Her Majesty
wrote warmly of her host that "he was one of the kindest and best of men." After luncheon the
country people danced jigs in the park, the men in their thick coats, the women in their shawls;
one man, "a regular Irishman, with his hat on, one ear," the music furnished by three old and
tattered pipers. Her Majesty pronounced the steps of the dancers "very droll."

The Duke and Duchess took their guests a drive, the people riding, running, and driving with
the company, but continuing perfectly well- behaved, and ready to obey any word of the Duke's.
It must have been a curious scene, in which all ranks took part. The Queen could not get over
the spectacle of the countrymen running the whole way, in their thick woollen coats, in the heat.

On the Queen's departure from Kingstown she was followed by the same enthusiasm that had greeted
her on her arrival. "As the yacht approached the extremity of the pier near the lighthouse,
where the people were most thickly congregated and were cheering enthusiastically, the Queen
suddenly left the two ladies-in-waiting with whom she was conversing, ran with agility along
the deck, and climbed the paddle-box to join Prince Albert, who did not notice her till she
was nearly at his side. Reaching him and taking his arm, she waved her right hand to the people
on the piers." As she stood with the Prince while the yacht steamed out of the harbour, she
waved her handkerchief in "a parting acknowledgment" of her Irish subjects' loyalty. As another
compliment to the enthusiastic farewells of the people, the Queen gave orders "to slacken speed."
The paddlewheels became still, the yacht floated slowly along close to the pier, and three
times the royal standard was lowered by way of "a stately obeisance" made in response to the
last ringing cheers of the Irish. It was a happy thought of her own.

The weather was thick and misty, and the storm which was feared came on in a violent gale before
the yacht entered Belfast Harbour, early on the morning of the 11th of August. The Mayor and
other officials came on board to breakfast, and in the course of the forenoon the Queen and
the Prince, with the ladies and gentlemen in attendance, entered the barge to row to the Fairy.
Though the row was only of two minutes' duration, the swell on the water was so great that
the embarkation in the Fairy was a matter of difficulty; and when the smaller yacht was gained
the Queen had to take shelter in the pavilion from the driving spray. In such unpropitious
circumstances her Majesty passed Carrickfergus, the landing-place of William III., and arrived
at the capital of Ulster just as the sun came out and lent its much-desired presence to the
gala. Lord Londonderry and his wife and daughters, Lord Donegal, the proprietor of the greater
part of Ulster, &c. &c., came on board with various deputations, especially of Presbyterians
and members of the linen trade. The Queen knighted the mayor, as she had knighted his brother-magistrate
at Cork.

By an odd blunder the gangway, which had been carefully constructed for the Queen's use, was
found too large. Some planks on board the yacht had to form an impromptu landing-stage; but
the situation was not so awkward as when Louis Philippe had to press a bathing-machine into
the royal service at Treport. The landing-place was covered in and decorated, the Londonderry
carriage in waiting, and her Majesty's only regret was for Lord Londonderry, a big man, crowded
on the rumble along with specially tall and large sergeant-footmen.

The Scotch-descended people of Belfast had outdone themselves in floral arches and decorations.
The galleries for spectators were thronged. There was no stint in the honest warmth of the
reception. But the Irish beauty, and doubtless also something of the Irish spirit and glee,
had vanished with the rags and the tumbledown cabins. The douce, comfortable people of Ulster
were less picturesque and less demonstrative.

Linen Hall, the Botanic Gardens, and the new college were visited, and different streets driven
through in returning to the place of embarkation at half-past six on an evening so stormy that
the weather prevented the yacht from setting sail. As it lay at anchor there was an opportunity
for seeing the bonfires, streaming in the blast, on the neighbouring heights.

Before quitting Ireland the Queen determined to create her eldest son "Earl of Dublin," one
of the titles borne by the late Duke of Kent.

CHAPTER XII.

SCOTLAND AGAIN--GLASGOW AND DEE-SIDE.

In the course of the afternoon the yacht sailed for Loch Ryan. The object of this second visit
to the West of Scotland was not so much for the purpose of seeing again the beautiful scenery
which had so delighted the Queen and the Prince, as with the view of making up for the great
disappointment experienced by the townspeople of Glasgow on her Majesty's having failed to
visit what was, after London, one of the largest cities in her empire.

