"Bless you, Strong, I sha'n't say a word disrespectful to her. This is something you'd ought
to know. He just did up a 'Clarion' with some notice about the school in it, and her name marked,
and sent it to that fellow you used to write to; and he wrote on the margin: 'Please forward
to Miss N.'s friends.' He said in the bar-room, to-day, that he didn't know just what would
come of it, but it stood to reason if she was on the hide, it would damage her or you, somehow."

"It hasn't, however," said Strong. "But if I stayed round the bar-room--"

"Oh, we choked him off. I tell you, Strong, everybody thinks it was a pretty dirty trick. The
people don't care so much about his big tricks, but they won't stand any such small ones. No
money in it, either--only spite! Well, the long and the short is--it's only a few weeks till
convention; and if you'll take hold now while they're mad, you can name your own man for Senate,
and we'll send you to Assembly."

"I don't want to go to Assembly," said Will, standing on his office-step. "I'll gladly do my
best to defeat Garvey for Senate."

"Well, you just decide on your man, and bring him out in your next paper and we'll elect him.
The people are strong for you just now. And I should think you would look on going to Assembly
as a sort of duty--purify politics, you know."

"Well--I'll think about it." And young Strong walked into his shabby office, stopped to give
Jim directions, then went in behind his screen, and sat down to write a proper editorial for
beginning the reform campaign.

HOW OLD WIGGINS WORE SHIP.

AN OLD SAILOR'S YARN.

BY CAPTAIN ROLAND T. COFFIN.

The World, N. Y., November, 1878.

"Well, sir," said the old sailor, "here we are ag'in. I ain't been round here much lately,
and atwixt you and me, she's put the 'kybosh' onto it, holdin' that comin' round here and hystin'
are promotin' of rheumatics, which, as are well known, they come of long and various exposures
in all climates, to say nothin' of watchin' onto a damp dock night arter night continual. But
what's the use? Everybody knows as a quiet home are better than silver and fine gold, which
it stands to reason are to be obtained in two ways. Wimmin are like sailors in some respects;
whoever has anythin' to do with 'em must either be saddled and bridled, leastwise, or else
booted and spurred. You've got to ride 'em, or else they'll ride you. Bein' a sailorman myself,
it ain't likely as I'd say anythin' ag'in 'em; but if the truth must be told, I'll say this--that
while it'll never do, not at no price, for to let sailors git the upper hand, there's many
a man as has giv' the helm into the hands of his old woman and made a better v'yage thereby;
and I don't mind sayin', sir, that havin' while follerin' the water got into the habit of allowin'
her for to be skipper in the house durin' my short stoppin's on shore, it got for to be so
much the custom, that since comin' home for a full due I ain't never tried for to break away
from it; and though human natur' is falliable, and she does make mistakes, especially about
the hystin', on the whole, and by and large, I judges I've been a gainer by it, as I believes
at least eight men out of ten would be if they took the hint accordin' and went and done likewise.

"I don't go for to say as she ever goes to go to say I ain't a-goin' for to let you go there;
but it are terrible aggrivokin' when the rheumatics twinges awful, and as it might be that
this saw-mill don't want no more splinters laid onto it, to have her feelin'ly remark, 'Well,
if you will go round a-guzzlin' ale with your swell friends and a-leavin' your lawful wife
to home alone you must expect to pay for it,' whereas I know it are the dock and other causes
long gone by; but that knowledge don't ease the pain a morsel, and the last time I were that
way tantalized I swore I wouldn't come here no more. But whatever are the use? Man resolves
and reresolves and then takes another snifter, and so here I are, and bein' as its cold, as
so she sha'n't have no basis for her unfeelin' remark about guzzlin' ale, we'll let him make
it hot rum, and arter the old receipt, neither economizin' in the rum or the sugar, but givin'
a fair drink for honest money.

"Well, well (just mix another afore the glass cools off), to think how the time goes. Here
it are autumn ag'in, and in a few weeks 'twill be winter. It reminds me (I'll take one more,
if you please, with one lump less of sugar and the space in rum) that I'm gittin' old, and
I feels it. My eyes ain't so good and my legs ain't so good, and I ain't so good all over.
When I goes down to the dock my lantern are heavier than it used to were, and the distance
ain't so short as it used to seem from the dock to the house. Afore many years I'll be put
quietly away, and though I'd prefer bein' beautifully sewed up and launched shipshape in blue
water, with a hundred pound weight for to keep me down, I s'poses it won't make much difference,
nohow. Anyhow, if I lives as long as old Wiggins, I hopes I may go as well at the end. I don't
think I ever told you about him, and if you'll let him fill 'em up ag'in--for it's one of the
vartues of hot rum that the more you drinks the thirstier you gits--I'll reel you the yarn
right off.

"Old Wiggins had been all his life into the Liverpool trade and had got well fixed, so far
as cash were consarned; and so when he came for to be seventy or seventy-two years old he were
persuaded for to knock off for a full due and spend the balance of his life ashore. Goin' up
to some place in Connecticut, he buys hisself a place there and settles down. Well, for a time
he were all right, a-fixin' up his house, a-buildin' new barns and hen-coops and fences and
the like, and I've heerd tell that the house where he kep' his pigs were better than any dwellin'-house
in that region, and the whole place were the wonder of the country roundabout; but arter he
had fixed his house all up like a ship, with little staterooms all through the upper part of
it, and had got everythin' inside and out in shipshape order, and there weren't nothin' else
he could think of for to do, he gits terribly homesick and discontented, and times when he'd
come to the city for to collect his sheer of the profits of ships as he had a interest in,
he'd sit for hours on the wharf a-watchin' the vessels on the river, and it were like drawin'
teeth for to git him to leave and go up to his home. His eyes had giv' out sometime afore he
quit the sea, and his legs was shaky, so as he had to walk with a settin' pole, and his hand
were tremblin' and unsteady; but aloft he were still all right, and his head were as clear
as a bell.

"Arter bein' ashore a matter of seven year, he comes to town one day to see a ship off what
he had been in afore he quit, and in which he had a half interest. The skipper of that ship,
which her name were the Vesuvius, he bein' called Perkins, in comin' from the Custom House
arter clearin', got athwart-hawse of a dray and were knocked down, the wheels passin' over
his legs and breakin' of 'em, and whatever do old Wiggins do--the home-sickness bein' strong
onto him--but says to the agents, 'It are a pity for to lose a day's fair wind; I'll go aboard
and take her out myself;' and, sure enough, he done it, never lettin' on to the folks at home,
but leavin' the agents to tell 'em arter he were gone.

"Into that ship I were shipped, she bein' 830 tons or thereabout, with three royal yards across,
and loaded with flour and grain, there bein' sixteen of us afore the mast, with two mates,
carpenter and cook, and steward, leavin' on the 16th of November, and, unless I'm mistakened,
in the year 1843.

