"In 1819, Isaiah Thomas of Worcester, Massachusetts, presented the college library 470 volumes,
which were perhaps an equivalent for the books recently lost, as Professor Haddock makes the
statement that there were probably no more books in 1820 than in 1815. In 1820 the Trustees
appropriated $400. The three libraries at this time must have numbered not far from 8,000 volumes.
In 1826, the 'Social Friends' obtained a Charter, and one was granted to the United Fraternity'
during the following year. These Charters gave the societies the right to hold property, and
transact business, and made necessary the consent of a majority of the existing members in
order to dispose of the libraries. The society libraries had been increasing more rapidly than
the college library, and at this time they had reached it in size as well as exceeded it in
practical value and in circulation. It is quite noticeable that these three libraries for the
twenty-five years following were kept so nearly equal, by additions and losses, that at no
time the number of books actually upon their shelves differed by more than a few hundred.

"The work and influence of the societies was neither small nor to be lightly estimated, and
in that work the libraries had no small share. Professor Crosby, in speaking of the college
life of the class of 1827, says: 'The college library was small, and had been so collected
that it contained few books which either the instructors or students wished to read. The chief
dependence of the latter was upon the society libraries, in which they took much pride, and
to the increase of which they contributed with so great liberality in proportion to their means.
During the first years of our course, the library of the "United Fraternity" occupied a place
in the north entry of the college, corresponding to that of the "Social Friends" library in
the south entry. The libraries were open only on Wednesdays and Saturdays from 1 to 2 P. M.,
for the delivery and return of books, and the students at these times gathered around the barred
entrances to be waited on in turn by the librarians and their assistants. The rooms were so
small that only three or four others were admitted at a time within the bar for the examination
of the books upon the shelves. The opening of the philological room and of a reading-room about
the same time by the members of the "Fraternity" led to the great enlargement of the library
rooms, and great increase of library advantages, which took place in the latter part of our
course. The ample rooms were now opened daily, instead of twice a week, for the delivery and
return of books.'

"The college library is spoken of as, at that time, being open once in two weeks, and occupying
a narrow room on the second floor of the college."

The marked advance in the course of study and general advantages of college life, during this
period, are too well known to many living readers to require especial notice in this connection.
The leading facts will be developed upon succeeding pages.

The following paragraphs from a member of Dr. Tyler's family are worthy of perusal.

"My first recollections of importance regarding Dartmouth College were my father's great concern
for its financial interests. There was great need of money at this time for new buildings and
scientific apparatus, and no one was found willing to assume the responsibility of soliciting
funds except President Tyler, who in his vacations undertook the matter, and was eminently
successful in the work. When he first started upon his mission he called upon the late Hon.
Isaac Hill, at that time editor of the New Hampshire 'Patriot,' which paper had been, as some
thought, opposed to the interests of the college. This gentleman had attended a Commencement
at Dartmouth, and had an interview with the new president, and being pleased, had spoken highly
of the college and its president in his paper. This emboldened President Tyler to ask Mr. Hill
to head the list of subscribers to the college, and to his surprise he did so, pledging himself
for one hundred dollars. Mr. Hill's signature was worth many thousands of dollars to the college.

"During one of his winter vacations, President Tyler started with his own horse and sleigh
on his mission, going through the State of Vermont into New York. He returned after six weeks'
earnest and arduous labor, having been very successful in his mission.

"Dr. Tyler's invaluable services to the church were continued, in various spheres, till his
death May 14, 1858, his wife, Mrs. Esther (Stone) Tyler, surviving him only one week."

CHAPTER XV.

INAUGURATION OF PRESIDENT LORD.

Rev. Nathan Lord, D.D., of Amherst, New Hampshire, was elected the sixth president of the college.
We insert entire his inaugural address, delivered October 29, 1828.

"The revival of learning, like that of religion, originally effected through the instrumentality
of the press, though long hindered by the successive political convulsions and changes of the
world, is now evidently in the course of rapid advancement, and is producing a deep and wide
impression upon the mass of civilized society. It is pervading all classes, and affecting all
interests. Its influence penetrates every public and private institution, and is exciting the
best energies of the human mind, both to the invention of new methods of intellectual cultivation
and the application of knowledge to the practical purposes of life. Fostered by the spirit
of freedom, which goes before to disenthral the mind from that state of servitude in which
its powers had been made to minister to ignorant and wayward ambition, or still more cramping
and perverting superstition, it promises to gain an universal ascendancy, and to render all
that influence which had been arrayed against it, henceforth subservient only to its triumphs.

"But it is characteristic of the human mind, when set at liberty from ancient prejudices, and
permitted to range in search of expected good, to become extreme in its calculations and projects
of improvement, and to distract itself amidst the variety of its experiments. And more especially
when its enterprises are favored by the encouragement of wealth, and sustained by the indiscriminate
approval of the multitude. It is then, that overlooking the maxims of sound philosophy, and
disregarding the safe lessons of experience, it is beguiled into the adoption of untried theories,
and wastes its strength in the prosecution of plans, which are found at length to accord neither
with the constitution of our nature nor with the approved usages of society. I will not say,
that this is a great evil in comparison with that state of mental vassalage and inaction in
which nothing is attempted, nor even conceived, for the true interests of mankind. For, the
mind unfettered, will ordinarily be corrected of its mistakes and brought back from its wanderings,
when truth is the object of its aspirations, and happiness is the prize only of successful
effort. But we may learn from this infirmity of our nature, to be cautious in our estimates
of the good before us, and to use that moderation in our endeavors which will leave us nothing
to regret, when their end shall have been attained.

"It will scarcely be doubted that the impulse which society has received, particularly since
the commencement of the passing century, and which has evidently been connected with the growth
of freedom in this country, has been attended with many of these excesses, and not the least
probably in the department of education. Numerous adventurers have set forth upon this field,
with different pretensions indeed, and unequal advantages, but all large in their expectations,
and confident of success. They have seemed to themselves almost to realize the ideal good,
to annihilate the space between barbarism and refinement, to find in relation to intellectual
attainment what experimental philosophy had sought in vain, the mysterious agent which should
transmute the baser metals into gold.

"Without denying at all the actual advance of learning, or disparaging the improvements which
are taking place in the arrangements and administration both of public and private seminaries,
we cannot be so fond (absit invidia verbo) as to accredit all the inventions of this restless
age. We cannot suppose that paths so various, which have been struck out in the heat of competition,
and systems based on principles and conducted by methods so frequently differing from each
other, will all conduce to the purposes for which they are intended, except as they may excite
more general attention to the interests of education, and furnish materials of which wisdom
and experience shall at length avail themselves, to perfect truer and more practicable systems,
suited to the intellectual and moral nature of man, and to the various relations and interests
of life. In this view, it is evident that the conduct of public literary institutions, at the
present time, is attended with no trivial embarrassments. That expansion of the public mind
and progress of society, which necessarily take place in a country favored with advantages
of elementary instruction and general information, will always be creating just demands upon
the higher seats of learning, which will task all their energies, and bring into requisition
all their resources. The mass of the community, becoming more enlightened, will call for proportionally
higher qualifications in those who are sent out to preside over the public interests, and their
progress in influence will produce a yet more powerful reaction. But to meet these demands
amidst the conflicting sectional interests and fluctuations of public feeling, which are usually
attendant upon a state of freedom, to discriminate rightly between the diverse systems of instruction
and discipline, which are set forth with such frequency and such earnestness of commendation;
to keep so near the public sentiment as not to lose the confidence of the community, and yet
not to follow it so implicitly as to sacrifice the more desirable good of self-approbation;
this is a labor which can be estimated by those only who have had the trial of sustaining it.
Institutions that have become venerable by age, powerful in resources and patronage, may go
forward to introduce, not only accredited improvements but doubtful changes; and may bring
the systems, which either the wise have devised, or the popular voice has required, to the
test of actual experiment. But feebler institutions cannot leave the ground of general principles,
which, however it may be safer and ultimately more subservient to their true interests, cannot
always be easily ascertained, and frequently fails of being approved amidst the varying circumstances,
relations, and interests of society.

