Whether Hegel has well or ill succeeded in the task of exhibiting in each and all of these
spheres the one universal movement, whether or no he was justified in reading into logic the
same kind of development manifested by life, or in making life conform to one logical formula--these
and other problems should arouse an interest in Hegel's writings. The following selections
may give some glimpse of their spirit.

In conclusion, some bare suggestions must suffice to indicate the reason for Hegel's great
influence. Hegel has partly, if not wholly, created the modern historical spirit. Reality for
him, as even this inadequate sketch has shown, is not static, but is essentially a process.
Thus until the history of a thing is known, the thing is not understood at all. It is the becoming
and not the being of the world that constitutes its reality. And thus in emphasizing the fact
that everything has a "past," the insight into which alone reveals its significant meaning,
Hegel has given metaphysical expression and impetus to the awakening modern historical sense.
His idea of evolution also epitomizes the spirit of the nineteenth century with its search
everywhere for geneses and transformations--in religion, philology, geology, biology. Closely
connected with the predominance of the historical in Hegel's philosophy is its explicit critique
of individualism and particularism. According to his doctrine, the individual as individual
is meaningless. The particular--independent and unrelated--is an abstraction. The isolation
of anything results in contradiction. It is only the whole that animates and gives meaning
to the individual and the particular. This idea of subordinating the individual to universal
ends, as embodied particularly in Hegel's theory of the State, has left its impress upon political,
social, and economic theories of his century. Not less significant is the glorification of
reason of which Hegel's complete philosophy is an expression. Reason never spoke with so much
self-confidence and authority as it did in Hegel. To the clear vision of reason the universe
presents no dark or mysterious corners, nay, the very negations and contradictions in it are
marks of its inherent rationality. But Hegel's rationalism is not of the ordinary shallow kind.
Reason he himself distinguishes from understanding. The latter is analytical, its function
is to abstract, to define, to compile, to classify. Reason, on the other hand, is synthetic,
constructive, inventive. Apart from Hegel's special use of the term, it is this synthetic and
creative and imaginative quality pervading his whole philosophy which has deepened men's insight
into history, religion, and art, and which has wielded its general influence on the philosophic
and literary constellation of the nineteenth century.

       *       *       *       *       *

GEORG WILHELM FRIEDRICH HEGEL

INTRODUCTION TO THE PHILOSOPHY OF HISTORY[1] (1837)

TRANSLATED BY J. SIBREE, M.A.

The subject of this course of lectures is the Philosophical History of the World. And by this
must be understood, not a collection of general observations respecting it, suggested by the
study of its records and proposed to be illustrated by its facts, but universal history itself.
To gain a clear idea, at the outset, of the nature of our task, it seems necessary to begin
with an examination of the other methods of treating history. The various methods may be ranged
under three heads:

   I. Original History.
  II. Reflective History.
 III. Philosophical History.

I. Of the first kind, the mention of one or two distinguished names will furnish a definite
type. To this category belong Herodotus, Thucydides, and other historians of the same order,
whose descriptions are for the most part limited to deeds, events, and states of society, which
they had before their eyes and whose spirit they shared. They simply transferred what was passing
in the world around them to the realm of re-presentative intellect; an external phenomenon
was thus translated into an internal conception. In the same way the poet operates upon the
material supplied him by his emotions, projecting it into an image for the conceptive faculty.

These original historians did, it is true, find statements and narratives of other men ready
to hand; one person cannot be an eye-and-ear witness of everything. But, merely as an ingredient,
they make use only of such aids as the poet does of that heritage of an already-formed language
to which he owes so much; historiographers bind together the fleeting elements of story, and
treasure them up for immortality in the temple of Mnemosyne. Legends, ballad-stories, and traditions
must be excluded from such original history; they are but dim and hazy forms of historical
apprehension, and therefore belong to nations whose intelligence is but half awakened. Here,
on the contrary, we have to do with people fully conscious of what they were and what they
were about. The domain of reality--actually seen, or capable of being so-affords a very different
basis in point of firmness from that fugitive and shadowy element in which were engendered
those legends and poetic dreams whose historical prestige vanishes as soon as nations have
attained a mature individuality.

Such original historians, then, change the events, the deeds, and the states of society with
which they are conversant, into an object for the conceptive faculty; the narratives they leave
us cannot, therefore, be very comprehensive in their range. Herodotus, Thucydides, Guicciardini,
may be taken as fair samples of the class in this respect. What is present and living in their
environment is their proper material. The influences that have formed the writer are identical
with those which have molded the events that constitute the matter of his story. The author's
spirit and that of the actions he narrates are one and the same. He describes scenes in which
he himself has been an actor, or at any rate an interested spectator. It is short periods of
time, individual shapes of persons and occurrences, single, unreflected traits, of which he
makes his picture. And his aim is nothing more than the presentation to posterity of an image
of events as clear as that which he himself possessed in virtue of personal observation, or
lifelike descriptions. Reflections are none of his business, for he lives in the spirit of
his subject; he has not attained an elevation above it. If, as in Cæsar's case, he belongs
to the exalted rank of generals or statesmen, it is the prosecution of his own aims that constitutes
the history.

Such speeches as we find in Thucydides, for example, of which we can positively assert that
they are not bona fide reports, would seem to make against our statement that a historian of
his class presents us no reflected picture, that persons and people appear in his works in
propria persona ... Granted that such orations as those of Pericles--that most profoundly accomplished,
genuine, noble statesman--were elaborated by Thucydides, it must yet be maintained that they
were not foreign to the character of the speaker. In the orations in question, these men proclaim
the maxims adopted by their countrymen and formative of their own character; they record their
views of their political relations and of their moral and spiritual nature, and publish the
principles of their designs and conduct. What the historian puts into their mouths is no supposititious
system of ideas, but an uncorrupted transcript of their intellectual and moral habitudes.

Of these historians whom we must make thoroughly our own, with whom we must linger long if
we would live with their respective nations and enter deeply into their spirit--of these historians
to whose pages we may turn, not for the purposes of erudition merely, but with a view to deep
and genuine enjoyment, there are fewer than might be imagined. Herodotus, the Father, namely
the Founder, of History, and Thucydides have been already mentioned. Xenophon's Retreat of
the Ten Thousand is a work equally original. Cæsar's Commentaries are the simple masterpiece
of a mighty spirit; among the ancients these annalists were necessarily great captains and
statesmen. In the Middle Ages, if we except the bishops, who were placed in the very centre
of the political world, the monks monopolize this category as naïve chroniclers who were as
decidedly isolated from active life as those elder annalists had been connected with it. In
modern times the relations are entirely altered. Our culture is essentially comprehensive,
and immediately changes all events into historical representations. Belonging to the class
in question, we have vivid, simple, clear narrations--especially of military transactions--which
might fairly take their place with those of Cæsar. In richness of matter and fulness of detail
as regards strategic appliances and attendant circumstances, they are even more instructive.
The French "Memoirs" also fall under this category. In many cases these are written by men
of mark, though relating to affairs of little note; they not unfrequently contain such a large
amount of anecdotal matter that the ground they occupy is narrow and trivial. Yet they are
often veritable masterpieces in history, as are those of Cardinal Retz, which, in fact, trench
on a larger historical field. In Germany such masters are rare, Frederick the Great in his
Histoire de mon temps being an illustrious exception. Writers of this order must occupy an
elevated position, for only from such a position is it possible to take an extensive view of
affairs--to see everything. This is out of the question for him who from below merely gets
a glimpse of the great world through a miserable cranny.

II. The second kind of history we may call the Reflective. It is history whose mode of representation
is not really confined by the limits of the time to which it relates, but whose spirit transcends
the present. In this second order a strongly marked variety of species may be distinguished.

1. It is the aim of the investigator to gain a view of the entire history of a people, of a
country, or of the world in short, what we call universal history. In this case the working
up of the historical material is the main point. The workman approaches his task with his own
spirit--a spirit distinct from that of the element he is to manipulate.

Here a very important consideration is the principles to which the author refers the bearing
and motives of the actions and events which he describes, as well as those which determine
the form of his narrative. Among us Germans this reflective treatment and the display of ingenuity
which it affords assume a manifold variety of phases. Every writer of history proposes to himself
an original method. The English and French confess to general principles of historical composition,
their viewpoint being more nearly that of cosmopolitan or national culture. Among us, each
labors to invent a purely individual point of view; instead of writing history, we are always
beating our brains to discover how history ought to be written.

This first kind of Reflective history is most nearly akin to the preceding, when it has no
further aim than to present the annals of a country complete. Such compilations (among which
may be mentioned the works of Livy, Diodorus Siculus, Johannes von Müller's History of Switzerland)
are, if well performed, highly meritorious. Among the best of the kind may be included such
annalists as approach those of the first-class writers who give so vivid a transcript of events
that the reader may well fancy himself listening to contemporaries and eye-witnesses. But it
often happens that the individuality of tone which must characterize a writer belonging to
a different culture is not modified in accordance with the periods which such a record must
traverse. The spirit of the writer may be quite apart from that of the times of which he treats.
Thus Livy puts into the mouths of the old Roman kings, consuls, and generals, such orations
as would be delivered by an accomplished advocate of the Livian era, and which strikingly contrast
with the genuine traditions of Roman antiquity--witness, for example, the fable of Menenius
Agrippa. In the same way he gives us descriptions of battles as if he had been an actual spectator;
but their salient points would serve well enough for battles in any period, for their distinctness
contrasts, even in his treatment of chief points of interest, with the want of connection and
the inconsistency that prevail elsewhere. The difference between such a compiler and an original
historian may be best seen by comparing Polybius himself with the style in which Livy uses,
expands, and abridges his annals in those periods of which Polybius' account has been preserved.
Johannes von Müller, in the endeavor to remain faithful in his portraiture to the times he
describes, has given a stiff, formal, pedantic aspect to his history. We much prefer the narratives
we find in old Tschudi; all is more naïve and natural than when appearing in the garb of a
fictitious and affected archaism.

A history which aspires to traverse long periods of time, or to be universal, must indeed forego
the attempt to give individual representations of the past as it actually existed. It must
foreshorten its pictures by abstractions, and this includes not merely the omission of events
and deeds, but whatever is involved in the fact that Thought is, after all, the most trenchant
epitomist. A battle, a great victory, a siege no longer maintains its original proportions,
but is put off with a mere allusion. When Livy, for instance, tells us of the war with the
Volsci, we sometimes have the brief announcement: "This year war was carried on with the Volsci."

2. A second species of Reflective history is what we may call the pragmatical. When we have
to deal with the past and occupy ourselves with a remote world, a present rises into being
for the mind--produced by its own activity, as the reward of its labor. The occurrences are,
indeed, various; but the idea which pervades them-their deeper import and connection--is one.
This takes the occurrence out of the category of the past and makes it virtually present. Pragmatical
(didactic) reflections, though in their nature decidedly abstract, are truly and indefeasibly
of the present, and quicken the annals of the dead past with the life of today. Whether, indeed,
such reflections are truly interesting and enlivening depends on the writer's own spirit. Moral
reflections must here be specially noticed--the moral teaching expected from history; the latter
has not infrequently been treated with a direct view to the former. It may be allowed that
examples of virtue elevate the soul and are applicable in the moral instruction of children
for impressing excellence upon their minds. But the destinies of people and states, their interests,
relations, and the complicated tissue of their affairs, present quite another field. Rulers,
statesmen, nations, are wont to be emphatically commended to the teaching which experience
offers in history; yet what experience and history teach is this-that peoples and governments
have never learned anything from history, nor have they acted on principles deduced from it.
Each period is involved in such peculiar circumstances, exhibits a condition of things so strictly
idiosyncratic, that its conduct must be regulated by considerations connected with itself,
and itself alone. Amid the pressure of great events a general principle gives no help.

It is useless to revert to similar circumstances in the past. The pallid shades of memory struggle
in vain with the life and freedom of the present. Looked at in this light nothing can be shallower
than the oft-repeated appeal to Greek and Roman examples during the French Revolution; nothing
is more diverse than the genius of those nations and that of our times. Johannes von Müller,
in his Universal History as also in his History of Switzerland, had such moral aims in view.
He designed to prepare a body of political doctrines for the instruction of princes, governments,
and peoples (he formed a special collection of doctrines and reflections, frequently giving
us in his correspondence the exact number of apothegms which he had compiled in a week); but
he cannot assert that this part of his labor was among the best he accomplished. It is only
a thorough, liberal, comprehensive view of historical relations (such for instance, as we find
in Montesquieu's L'Esprit des Lois) that can give truth and interest to reflections of this
order. One Reflective history, therefore, supersedes another. The materials are patent to every
writer; each is prone to believe himself capable of arranging and manipulating them, and we
may expect that each will insist upon his own spirit as that of the age in question. Disgusted
by such reflective histories, readers have often returned with pleasure to narratives adopting
no particular point of view--which certainly have their value, although, for the most part,
they offer only material for history. We Germans are content with such; but the French, on
the other hand, display great genius in reanimating bygone times and in bringing the past to
bear upon the present condition of things.

3. The third form of Reflective history is the Critical. This deserves mention as preeminently
the mode, now current in Germany, of treating history. It is not history itself that is here
presented. We might more properly designate it as a History of History--a criticism of historical
narratives and an investigation of their truth and credibility. Its peculiarity, in point of
fact as well as intention, consists in the acuteness with which the writer extorts from the
records something which was not in the matters recorded. The French have given us much that
is profound and judicious in this class of composition, but have not endeavored to make a merely
critical procedure pass for substantial history; their judgments have been duly presented in
the form of critical treatises. Among us, the so-called "higher criticism," which reigns supreme
in the domain of philology, has also taken possession of our historical literature; it has
been the pretext for introducing all the anti-historical monstrosities that a vain imagination
could suggest. Here we have the other method of making the past a living reality; for historical
data subjective fancies are substituted, whose merit is measured by their boldness--that is,
the scantiness of the particulars on which they are based and the peremptoriness with which
they contravene the best established facts of history.

4. The last species of Reflective history announces its fragmentary character on its very face.
It adopts an abstract position; yet, since it takes general points of view (such, for instance,
as the History of Art, of Law, of Religion), it forms a transition to the Philosophical History
of the World. In our time this form of the history of ideas has been especially developed and
made prominent. Such branches of national life stand in close relation to the entire complex
of a people's annals; and the question of chief importance in relation to our subject is, whether
the connection of the whole is exhibited in its truth and reality, or is referred to merely
external relations. In the latter case, these important phenomena (art, law, religion, etc.),
appear as purely accidental national peculiarities. It must be remarked, if the position taken
is a true one, that when Reflective history has advanced to the adoption of general points
of view, these are found to constitute not a merely external thread, a superficial series,
but are the inward guiding soul of the occurrences and actions that occupy a nation's annals.
For, like the soul-conductor, Mercury, the Idea is, in truth, the leader of peoples and of
the world; and Spirit, the rational and necessitated will of that conductor, is and has been
the director of the events of the world's history. To become acquainted with Spirit in this,
its office of guidance, is the object of our present undertaking.

III. The third kind of history is the Philosophical. No explanation was needed of the two previous
classes; their nature was self-evident. It is otherwise with the last, which certainly seems
to require an exposition or justification. The most general definition that can be given is,
that the philosophy of history means nothing but the thoughtful consideration of it. Thought
is, indeed, essential to humanity. It is this that distinguishes us from the brutes. In sensation,
cognition, and intellection, in our instincts and volitions, as far as they are truly human,
thought is a constant element. To insist upon thought in this connection with history may,
however, appear unsatisfactory. In this science it would seem as if thought must be subordinate
to what is given, to the realities of fact--that this is its basis and guide; while philosophy
dwells in the region of self-produced ideas, without reference to actuality. Approaching history
thus prepossessed, speculation might be supposed to treat it as a mere passive material, and,
so far from leaving it in its native truth, to force it into conformity with a tyrannous idea,
and to construe it, as the phrase is, a priori. But as it is the business of history simply
to adopt into its records what is and has been-actual occurrences and transactions; and since
it remains true to its character in proportion as it strictly adheres to its data, we seem
to have in philosophy a process diametrically opposed to that of the historiographer. This
contradiction, and the charge consequently brought against speculation, shall be explained
and confuted. We do not, however, propose to correct the innumerable special misrepresentations,
whether trite or novel, that are current respecting the aims, the interests, and the modes
of treating history and its relation to philosophy.

The only thought which philosophy brings with it to the contemplation of history, is the simple
conception of Reason; that Reason is the sovereign of the world; that the history of the world,
therefore, presents us with a rational process. This conviction and intuition is a hypothesis
in the domain of history as such; in that of philosophy it is no hypothesis. It is there proved
by speculative cognition that Reason--and this term may here suffice us, without investigating
the relation sustained by the universe to the Divine Being--is substance, as well as Infinite
Power; its own Infinite Material is that underlying all the natural and spiritual life which
it originates, as also the Infinite Form--that which sets this material in motion. On the one
hand, Reason is the substance of the universe--viz., that by which and in which all reality
has its being and subsistence. On the other hand, it is the infinite energy of the universe;
since Reason is not so powerless as to be incapable of producing anything but a mere ideal,
a mere intention--having its place outside reality, nobody knows where; something separate
and abstract in the heads of certain human beings. It is the infinite complex of things, their
entire essence and truth. It is its own material which it commits to its own active energy
to work up--not needing, as finite action does, the conditions of an external material of given
means from which it may obtain its support and the objects of its activity. It supplies its
own nourishment and is the object of its own operations. While it is exclusively its own basis
of existence and absolute final aim, it is also the energizing power realizing this aim, developing
it not only in the phenomena of the natural, but also of the spiritual universe--the history
of the world. That this "Idea" or "Reason" is the true, the eternal, the absolutely powerful
essence; that it reveals itself in the world, and that in that world nothing else is revealed
but this and its honor and glory--is the thesis which, as we have said, has been proved in
philosophy and is here regarded as demonstrated.

In entering upon this course of lectures, I may fairly presume, at least, the existence in
those of my hearers who are not acquainted with philosophy, of a belief in Reason, a desire,
a thirst for acquaintance with it. It is, in fact, the wish for rational insight, not the ambition
to amass a mere heap of acquirements, that should be presupposed in every case as possessing
the mind of the learner in the study of science. If the clear idea of Reason is not already
developed in our minds, in beginning the study of universal history, we should at least have
the firm, unconquerable faith that Reason does exist there, and that the world of intelligence
and conscious volition is not abandoned to chance, but must show itself in the light of the
self-cognizant Idea. Yet I am not obliged to make such a preliminary demand upon your faith.
What I have said thus provisionally, and what I shall have further to say, is, even in reference
to our branch of science, not to be regarded as hypothetical, but as a summary view of the
whole, the result of the investigation we are about to pursue--a result which happens to be
known to me, because I have traversed the entire field. It is only an inference from the history
of the world that its development has been a rational process, that the history in question
has constituted the rational necessary course of the World-Spirit--that Spirit whose nature
is always one and the same, but which unfolds this, its one nature, in the phenomena of the
world's existence. This must, as before stated, present itself as the ultimate result of history;
but we have to take the latter as it is. We must proceed historically--empirically. Among other
precautions we must take care not to be misled by professed historians who (especially among
the Germans, and those enjoying a considerable authority) are chargeable with the very procedure
of which they accuse the philosopher--introducing a priori inventions of their own into the
records of the past. It is, for example, a widely current fiction that there was an original
primeval people, taught directly by God, endowed with perfect insight and wisdom, possessing
a thorough knowledge of all natural laws and spiritual truth; that there have been such or
such sacerdotal peoples; or, to mention a more specific claim, that there was a Roman Epos,
from which the Roman historians derived the early annals of their city, etc....

I will mention only two phases and points of view that concern the generally diffused conviction
that Reason has ruled, and is still ruling in the world, and consequently in the world's history;
because they give us, at the same time, an opportunity for more closely investigating the question
that presents the greatest difficulty, and for indicating a branch of the subject which will
have to be enlarged on in the sequel.

1. One of these points is that passage in history which informs us that the Greek Anaxagoras
was the first to enunciate the doctrine that [GREEK: nous],--Understanding in general, or Reason,
governs the world. It is not intelligence as self-conscious Reason--not a spirit as such that
is meant; and we must clearly distinguish these from each other. The movement of the solar
system takes place according to unchangeable laws. These laws are Reason, implicit in the phenomena
in question; but neither the sun nor the planets which revolve around it according to these
laws can be said to have any consciousness of them.

A thought of this kind--that nature is an embodiment of Reason, that is, unchangeably subordinate
to universal laws--appears nowise striking or strange to us. We are accustomed to such conceptions
and find nothing extraordinary in them; and I have mentioned this extraordinary occurrence
partly to show how history teaches that ideas of this kind, which may seem trivial to us, have
not always been in the world; that, on the contrary, such a thought makes an epoch in the annals
of human intelligence. Aristotle says of Anaxagoras, as the originator of the thought in question,
that he appeared as a sober man among the drunken. Socrates adopted the doctrine from Anaxagoras,
and it forthwith became the ruling idea in philosophy--except in the school of Epicurus, who
ascribed all events to chance. "I was delighted with the sentiment," Plato makes Socrates say,
"and hoped I had found a teacher who would show me Nature in harmony with Reason, who would
demonstrate in each particular phenomenon its specific aim, and, in the whole, the grand object
of the universe. I would not have surrendered this hope for a great deal. But how very much
was I disappointed, when, having zealously applied myself to the writings of Anaxagoras, I
found that he adduces only external causes, such as atmosphere, ether, water, and the like."
It is evident that the defect which Socrates complains of respecting Anaxagoras' doctrine does
not concern the principle itself, but the shortcoming of the propounder in applying it to nature
in the concrete. Nature is not deduced from that principle; the latter remains, in fact, a
mere abstraction, inasmuch as the former is not comprehended and exhibited as a development
of it--an organization produced by and from Reason. I wish, at the very outset, to call your
attention to the important difference between a conception, a principle, a truth limited to
an abstract form, and its determinate application and concrete development. This distinction
affects the whole fabric of philosophy; and among other bearings of it there is one to which
we shall have to revert at the close of our view of universal history, in investigating the
aspect of political affairs in the most recent period.

We have next to notice the rise of this idea that Reason directs the world, in connection with
a further application of it well known to us--in the form, viz., of the religious truth that
the world is not abandoned to chance and external contingent causes, but that a Providence
controls it. I stated above that I would not make a demand on your faith in regard to the principle
announced. Yet I might appeal to your belief in it, in this religious aspect, if as a general
rule, the nature of philosophical science allowed it to attach authority to presuppositions.
To put it in another shape--this appeal is forbidden, because the science of which we have
to treat proposes itself to furnish the proof, not indeed of the abstract truth of the doctrine,
but of its correctness as compared with facts. The truth, then, that a Providence (that of
God) presides over the events of the world consorts with the proposition in question; for Divine
Providence is wisdom, endowed with an infinite power, which realizes its aim, viz., the absolute
rational design of the world. Reason is thought conditioning itself with perfect freedom. But
a difference--rather a contradiction--will manifest itself between this belief and our principle,
just as was the case in reference to the demand made by Socrates in the case of Anaxagoras'
dictum. For that belief is similarly indefinite; it is what is called a belief in a general
providence, and is not followed out into definite application, or displayed in its bearing
on the grand total--the entire course of human history. But to explain history is to depict
the passions of mankind, the genius, the active powers, that play their part on the great stage;
and the providentially determined process which these exhibit constitutes what is generally
called the "plan" of Providence. Yet it is this very plan which is supposed to be concealed
from our view, which it is deemed presumption even to wish to recognize. The ignorance of Anaxagoras
as to how intelligence reveals itself in actual existence was ingenuous. Neither in his consciousness,
nor in that of Greece at large, had that thought been further expanded. He had not attained
the power to apply his general principle to the concrete, so as to deduce the latter from the
former; it was Socrates who took the first step in comprehending the union of the concrete
with the universal. Anaxagoras, then, did not take up a hostile position toward such an application;
the common belief in Providence does; at least it opposes the use of the principle on a large
scale, and denies the possibility of discerning the plan of Providence. In isolated cases this
plan is supposed to be manifest. Pious persons are encouraged to recognize in particular circumstances
something more than mere chance, to acknowledge the guiding hand of God; for instance, when
help has unexpectedly come to an individual in great perplexity and need. But these instances
of providential design are of a limited kind, and concern the accomplishment of nothing more
than the desires of the individual in question. But in the history of the world, the individuals
we have to do with are peoples, totalities that are States. We cannot, therefore, be satisfied
with what we may call this "peddling" view of Providence, to which the belief alluded to limits
itself. Equally unsatisfactory is the merely abstract, undefined belief in a Providence, when
that belief is not brought to bear upon the details of the process which it conducts. On the
contrary our earnest endeavor must be directed to the recognition of the ways of Providence,
the means it uses, and the historical phenomena in which it manifests itself; and we must show
their connection with the general principle above mentioned. But in noticing the recognition
of the plan of Divine Providence generally, I have implicitly touched upon a prominent question
of the day, viz., that of the possibility of knowing God; or rather--since public opinion has
ceased to allow it to be a matter of question--the doctrine that it is impossible to know God.
In direct contravention of what is commanded in holy Scripture as the highest duty--that we
should not merely love, but know God--the prevalent dogma involves the denial of what is there
said--namely, that it is the Spirit, der Geist, that leads into truth, knows all things, penetrates
even into the deep things of the Godhead. While the Divine Being is thus placed beyond our
knowledge and outside the limit of all human things, we have the convenient license of wandering
as far as we list, in the direction of our own fancies. We are freed from the obligation to
refer our knowledge to the Divine and True. On the other hand, the vanity and egoism which
characterize our knowledge find, in this false position, ample justification; and the pious
modesty which puts far from itself the knowledge of God can well estimate how much furtherance
thereby accrues to its own wayward and vain strivings. I have been unwilling to leave out of
sight the connection between our thesis--that Reason governs and has governed the world--and
the question of the possibility of a knowledge of God, chiefly that I might not lose the opportunity
of mentioning the imputation against philosophy of being shy of noticing religious truths,
or of having occasion to be so; in which is insinuated the suspicion that it has anything but
a clear conscience in the presence of these truths. So far from this being the case, the fact
is that in recent times philosophy has been obliged to defend the domain of religion against
the attacks of several theological systems. In the Christian religion God has revealed Himself--that
is, He has given us to understand what He is, with the result that He is no longer a concealed
or secret existence. And this possibility of knowing Him, thus afforded us, renders such knowledge
a duty. God wishes for His children no narrow-hearted souls or empty heads, but those whose
spirit is of itself indeed, poor, but rich in the knowledge of Him, and who regard this knowledge
of God as the only valuable possession. That development of the thinking spirit, which has
resulted from the revelation of the Divine Being as its original basis, must ultimately advance
to the intellectual comprehension of what was presented, in the first instance, to feeling
and imagination. The time must eventually come for understanding that rich product of active
Reason which the history of the world offers to us. It was for a while the fashion to profess
admiration for the wisdom of God, as displayed in animals, plants, and isolated occurrences.
But if it be allowed that Providence manifests itself in such objects and forms of existence,
why not also in universal history? This is deemed too great a matter to be thus regarded. But
divine wisdom, i. e., Reason, is one and the same in the great as in the little; and we must
not imagine God to be too weak to exercise his wisdom on the grand scale. Our intellectual
striving aims at realizing the conviction that what was intended by eternal wisdom is actually
accomplished in the domain of existent, active Spirit, as well as in that of mere Nature. Our
mode of treating the subject is, in this aspect, a Theodicaea--a justification of the ways
of God--which Leibnitz attempted metaphysically in his method, i. e., in indefinite abstract
categories--so that the ill that is found in the world may be comprehended, and the thinking
Spirit reconciled with the fact of the existence of evil. Indeed, nowhere is such a harmonizing
view more pressingly demanded than in universal history; and it can be attained only by recognizing
the positive existence, in which that negative element is a subordinate and vanquished nullity.
On the one hand, the ultimate design of the world must be perceived, and, on the other, the
fact that this design has been actually realized in it, and that evil has not been able permanently
to establish a rival position. But this conviction involves much more than the mere belief
in a superintending [GREEK: nous] or in "Providence." "Reason," whose sovereignty over the
world has been maintained, is as indefinite a term as "Providence," supposing the term to be
used by those who are unable to characterize it distinctly, to show wherein it consists, so
as to enable us to decide whether a thing is rational or irrational. An adequate definition
of Reason is the first desideratum; and whatever boast may be made of strict adherence to it
in explaining phenomena, without such a definition we get no farther than mere words. With
these observations we may proceed to the second point of view that has to be considered in
this Introduction.

2. The inquiry into the essential destiny of Reason, as far as it is considered in reference
to the world, is identical with the question What is the ultimate design of the world? And
the expression implies that that design is destined to be realized. Two points of consideration
suggest themselves: first, the import of this design--its abstract definition; secondly, its
realization.

It must be observed at the outset that the phenomenon we investigate--universal history--belongs
to the realm of "spirit." The term "World" includes both physical and psychical nature. Physical
nature also plays its part in the world's history, and attention will have to be paid to the
fundamental natural relations thus involved. But Spirit, and the course of its development,
is our substantial object. Our task does not require us to contemplate nature as a rational
system in itself--though in its own proper domain it proves itself such-but simply in its relation
to Spirit. On the stage on which we are observing it--universal history--Spirit displays itself
in its most concrete reality. Notwithstanding this (or rather for the very purpose of comprehending
the general principles which this, its form of concrete reality, embodies) we must premise
some abstract characteristics of the nature of Spirit.

We have therefore to mention here

  (1) The abstract characteristics of the nature of
  Spirit.

  (2) What means Spirit uses in order to realize its
  Idea.

  (3) Lastly, we must consider the shape which the
  perfect embodiment of Spirit assumes--the
  State.

(1) The nature of Spirit may be understood by a glance at its direct opposite--Matter. As the
essence of Matter is gravity, so, on the other hand, we may affirm that the substance, the
essence of Spirit is freedom. All will readily assent to the doctrine that Spirit, among other
properties, is also endowed with freedom; but philosophy teaches that all the qualities of
Spirit exist only through freedom; that all are but means for attaining freedom; that all seek
and produce this and this alone. It is a result of speculative philosophy that freedom is the
sole truth of Spirit. Matter possesses gravity in virtue of its tendency toward a central point.
It is essentially composite, consisting of parts that exclude one another. It seeks its unity;
and therefore exhibits itself as self-destructive, as verging toward its opposite--an indivisible
point. If it could attain this, it would be Matter no longer; it would have perished. It strives
after the realization of its Idea; for in unity it exists ideally. Spirit, on the contrary,
may be defined as that which has its centre in itself. It has not a unity outside itself, but
has already found it; it exists in and with itself. Matter has its essence out of itself; Spirit
is self-contained existence (Bei-sich-selbst-seyn). Now this is freedom, exactly. For if I
am dependent, my being is referred to something else which I am not; I cannot exist independently
of something external. I am free, on the contrary, when my existence depends upon myself. This
self-contained existence of Spirit is none other than self-consciousness-consciousness of one's
own being. Two things must be distinguished in consciousness; first, the fact that I know;
secondly, what I know. In self-consciousness these are merged in one; for Spirit knows itself.
It involves an appreciation of its own nature, as also an energy enabling it to realize itself;
to make itself actually what it is potentially. According to this abstract definition it may
be said of universal history that it is the exhibition of Spirit in the process of working
out the knowledge of that which it is potentially. And as the germ bears in itself the whole
nature of the tree and the taste and form of its fruits, so do the first traces of Spirit virtually
contain the whole of that history. The Orientals have not attained the knowledge that Spirit--Man
as such--is free; and because they do not know this, they are not free. They only know that
one is free; but on this very account, the freedom of that one is only caprice; ferocity--brutal
recklessness of passion, or a mildness and tameness of the desires, which is itself only an
accident of nature--is mere caprice like the former. That one is therefore only a despot, not
a free man. The consciousness of freedom first arose among the Greeks, and therefore they were
free; but they, and the Romans likewise, knew only that some are free, not man as such. Even
Plato and Aristotle did not know this. The Greeks, therefore, had slaves, and their whole life
and the maintenance of their splendid liberty was implicated with the institution of slavery--a
fact, moreover, which made that liberty, on the one hand, only an accidental, transient and
limited growth, and on the other, a rigorous thraldom of our common nature--of the Human. The
Germanic nations, under the influence of Christianity, were the first to attain the consciousness
that man is free; that it is the freedom of Spirit which constitutes its essence. This consciousness
arose first in religion, the inmost region of Spirit; but to introduce the principle into the
various relations of the actual world involves a more extensive problem than its simple implantation--a
problem whose solution and application require a severe and lengthened process of culture.
In proof of this we may note that slavery did not cease immediately on the reception of Christianity.
Still less did liberty predominate in States; or governments and constitutions adopt a rational
organization, or recognize freedom as their basis. That application of the principle to political
relations, the thorough molding and interpenetration of the constitution of society by it,
is a process identical with history itself. I have already directed attention to the distinction
here involved, between a principle as such and its application--that is, its introduction and
fulfilment in the actual phenomena of Spirit and life. This is a point of fundamental importance
in our science, and one which must be constantly respected as essential. And in the same way
as this distinction has attracted attention in view of the Christian principle of self-consciousness--freedom,
it also shows itself as an essential one in view of the principle of freedom generally. The
history of the world is none other than the progress of the consciousness of freedom--progress
whose development, according to the necessity of its nature, it is our business to investigate.

The general statement given above of the various grades in the consciousness of freedom-which
we applied in the first instance to the fact that the Eastern nations knew only that one is
free, the Greek and Roman world only that some are free, while we know that all men absolutely
(man as man) are free--supplies us with the natural division of universal history, and suggests
the mode of its discussion. This is remarked, however, only incidentally and anticipatively;
some other ideas must be first explained.

The destiny of the spiritual world, and--since this is the substantial world, while the physical
remains subordinate to it, or, in the language of speculation, has no truth as against the
spiritual--the final cause of the world at large we allege to be the consciousness of its own
freedom on the part of Spirit, and, ipso facto, the reality of that freedom. But that this
term "freedom" is, without further qualification, an indefinite, incalculable, ambiguous term,
and that, while what it represents is the ne plus ultra of attainment, it is liable to an infinity
of misunderstandings, confusions, and errors, and to become the occasion for all imaginable
excesses--has never been more clearly known and felt than in modern times. Yet, for the present,
we must content ourselves with the term itself without further definition. Attention was also
directed to the importance of the infinite difference between a principle in the abstract and
its realization in the concrete. In the process before us the essential nature of freedom--which
involves absolute necessity--is to be displayed as coming to a consciousness of itself (for
it is in its very nature, self-consciousness) and thereby realizing its existence. Itself is
its own object of attainment and the sole aim of Spirit. This result it is at which the process
of the world's history has been continually aiming, and to which the sacrifices that have ever
and anon been laid on the vast altar of the earth, through the long lapse of ages, have been
offered. This is the only aim that sees itself realized and fulfilled, the only pole of repose
amid the ceaseless change of events and conditions, and the sole efficient principle that pervades
them. This final aim is God's purpose with the world; but God is the absolutely perfect Being,
and can, therefore, will nothing other than Himself--His own will. The nature of His will--that
is His nature itself--is what we here call the idea of freedom, translating the language of
religion into that of thought. The question, then, which we may next put, is What means does
this principle of freedom use for its realization? This is the second point we have to consider.

(2) The question of the means by which freedom develops itself to a world conducts us to the
phenomenon of history itself. Although freedom is, primarily, an undeveloped idea, the means
it uses are external and phenomenal, presenting themselves in history to our sensuous vision.
The first glance at history convinces us that the actions of men proceed from their needs,
their passions, when the occasion seems to call for it--is that what we call principle, aim,
destiny, or the nature and idea of Spirit, is something merely general and abstract. Principle--Plan
of Existence--Law--is a hidden, undeveloped essence which, as such--however true in itself--is
not completely real. Aims, principles, etc., have a place in our thoughts, in our subjective
design only, but not as yet in the sphere of reality. That which exists for itself only is
a possibility, a potentiality, but it has not emerged into existence. A second element must
be introduced in order to produce actuality--viz., actuation, realization; and its motive power
is the will--the activity of man in the widest sense. It is only by this activity that that
Idea, as well as abstract characteristics generally, are realized, actualized; for of themselves
they are powerless. The motive power that puts them in operation and gives them determinate
existence, is the need, instinct, inclination, and passion of man. That some conception of
mine should be developed into act and existence, is my earnest desire; I wish to assert my
personality in connection with it; I wish to be satisfied by its execution. If I am to exert
myself for any object, it must in some way or other be my object. In the accomplishment of
such or such designs I must at the same time find my satisfaction; although the purpose for
which I exert myself includes a complication of results, many of which have no interest for
me. This is the absolute right of personal existence--to find itself satisfied in its activity
and labor. If men are to interest themselves for anything, they must, so to speak, have part
of their existence involved in it and find their individuality gratified by its attainment.
Here a mistake must be avoided. We intend blame, and justly impute it as a fault, when we say
of an individual that he is "interested" (in taking part in such or such transactions)--that
is, seeks only his private advantage. In reprehending this we find fault with him for furthering
his personal aims without any regard to a more comprehensive design, of which he takes advantage
to promote his own interest or which, with this view, he even sacrifices. But he who is active
in promoting an object is not simply "interested," but interested in that object itself. Language
faithfully expresses this distinction. Nothing therefore happens, nothing is accomplished,
unless the individuals concerned seek their own satisfaction in the issue. They are particular
units of society--that is, they have special needs, instincts, and interests generally, peculiar
to themselves. Among these needs are not only such as we usually call necessities--the stimuli
of individual desire and volition--but also those connected with individual views and convictions;
or--to use a term expressing less decision--leanings of opinion, supposing the impulses of
reflection, understanding, and reason, to have been awakened. In these cases people demand,
if they are to exert themselves in any direction, that the object should commend itself to
them, that, in point of opinion-whether as to its goodness, justice, advantage, profit they
should be able to "enter into it" (dabei sein). This is a consideration of special importance
in our age, when people are less than formerly influenced by reliance on others, and by authority;
when, on the contrary, they devote their activities to a cause on the ground of their own understanding,
their independent conviction and opinion.

We assert then that nothing has been accomplished without interest on the part of the actors;
and--if interest be called passion, inasmuch as the whole individuality, to the neglect of
all other actual or possible interests and claims, is devoted to an object with every fibre
of volition, concentrating all its desires and powers upon it--we may affirm absolutely that
nothing great in the world has been accomplished without passion. Two elements, therefore,
enter into the object of our investigation--the first the Idea, the second the complex of human
passions; the one the warp, the other the woof of the vast arras-web of universal history.
The concrete mean and union of the two is liberty, under the conditions of morality in a State.
We have spoken of the idea of freedom as the nature of Spirit, and the absolute goal of history.
Passion is regarded as a thing of sinister aspect, as more or less immoral. Man is required
to have no passions. Passion, it is true, is not quite the suitable word for what I wish to
express. I mean here nothing more than human activity as resulting from private interests,
special, or if you will, self-seeking designs--with this qualification, that the whole energy
of will and character is devoted to their attainment, and that other interests (which would
in themselves constitute attractive aims), or, rather, all things else, are sacrificed to them.
The object in question is so bound up with the man's will that it entirely and alone determines
the "hue of resolution" and is inseparable from it; it has become the very essence of his volition.
For a person is a specific existence--not man in general (a term to which no real existence
corresponds); but a particular human being. The term "character" likewise expresses this idiosyncrasy
of will and intelligence. But character comprehends all peculiarities whatever, the way in
which a person conducts himself in private relations, etc., and is not limited to his idiosyncrasy
in its practical and active phase. I shall, therefore, use the term "passion," understanding
thereby the particular bent of character, as far as the peculiarities of volition are not limited
to private interest but supply the impelling and actuating force for accomplishing deeds shared
in by the community at large. Passion is, in the first instance, the subjective and therefore
the formal side of energy, will, and activity--leaving the object or aim still undetermined.
And there is a similar relation of formality to reality in merely individual conviction, individual
views, individual conscience. It is always a question of essential importance--what is the
purport of my conviction, what the object of my passion--in deciding whether the one or the
other is of a true and substantial nature. Conversely, if it is so, it will inevitably attain
actual existence--be realized.

From this comment on the second essential element in the historical embodiment of an aim, we
infer--glancing at the institution of the State in passing--that a State is well constituted
and internally powerful when the private interest of its citizens is one with the common interest
of the State, when the one finds its gratification and realization in the other--a proposition
in itself very important. But in a State many institutions must be adopted, and much political
machinery invented, accompanied by appropriate political arrangements--necessitating long struggles
of the understanding before what is really appropriate can be discovered--involving, moreover,
contentions with private interest and passions and a tedious discipline of the latter in order
to bring about the desired harmony. The epoch when a State attains this harmonious condition
marks the period of its bloom, its virtue, its vigor, and its prosperity. But the history of
mankind does not begin with a conscious aim of any kind, as is the case with the particular
circles into which men form themselves of set purpose. The mere social instinct implies a conscious
purpose of security for life and property; and when society has been constituted this purpose
becomes more comprehensive. The history of the world begins with its general aim--the realization
of the idea of Spirit--only in an implicit form (an sich), that is, as nature--a hidden, most
profoundly hidden, unconscious instinct; and the whole process of history (as already observed)
is directed to rendering this unconscious impulse a conscious one. Thus appearing in the form
of merely natural existence, natural will--that which has been called the subjective side--physical
craving, instinct, passion, private interest, as also opinion and subjective conception, spontaneously
present themselves at the very commencement. This vast congeries of volitions, interests, and
activities, constitute the instruments and means of the World-Spirit for attaining its object,
bringing it to consciousness and realizing it. And this aim is none other than finding itself--coming
to itself--and contemplating itself in concrete actuality. But that those manifestations of
vitality on the part of individuals and peoples, in which they seek and satisfy their own purposes,
are, at the same time, the means and instruments of a higher and broader purpose of which they
know nothing-which they realize unconsciously might be made a matter of question-rather has
been questioned, and, in every variety of form, negatived, decried, and contemned as mere dreaming
and "philosophy." But on this point I announced my view at the very outset and asserted our
hypothesis--which, however, will appear in the sequel in the form of a legitimate inference--and
our belief that Reason governs the world and has consequently governed its history. In relation
to this independently universal and substantial existence all else is subordinate, subservient
to it, and the means for its development. The union of universal abstract existence generally
with the individual--the subjective--that this alone is truth belongs to the department of
speculation and is treated in this general form in logic. But in the process of the world's
history itself--as still incomplete--the abstract final aim of history is not yet made the
distinct object of desire and interest. While these limited sentiments are still unconscious
of the purpose they are fulfilling, the universal principle is implicit in them and is realizing
itself through them. The question also assumes the form of the union of freedom and necessity,
the latent abstract process of Spirit being regarded as necessity, while that which exhibits
itself in the conscious will of men, as their interest, belongs to the domain of freedom. As
the metaphysical connection (i. e., the connection in the Idea) of these forms of thought,
belongs to logic, it would be out of place to analyze it here. The chief and cardinal points
only shall be mentioned.

Philosophy shows that the Idea advances to an infinite antithesis--that, namely, between the
Idea in its free, universal form, in which it exists for itself, and the contrasted form of
abstract introversion, reflection on itself, which is formal existence-for-self, personality,
formal freedom, such as belongs to Spirit only. The universal Idea exists thus as the substantial
totality of things on the one side, and as the abstract essence of free volition on the other.
This reflection of the mind on itself is individual self-consciousness--the polar-opposite
of the Idea in its general form and therefore existing in absolute limitation. This polar-opposite
is consequently limitation, particularization for the universal absolute being; it is the side
of the definite existence, the sphere of its formal reality, the sphere of the reverence paid
to God. To comprehend the absolute connection of this antithesis is the profound task of metaphysics.
This limitation originates all forms of particularity of whatever kind. The formal volition
(of which we have spoken) wills itself and desires to make its own personality valid in all
that it purposes and does; even the pious individual wishes to be saved and happy. This pole
of the antithesis, existing for itself, is--in contrast with the Absolute Universal Being--a
special separate existence, taking cognizance of speciality only and willing that alone. In
short, it plays its part in the region of mere phenomena. This is the sphere of particular
purposes, in effecting which individuals exert themselves on behalf of their individuality--give
it full play and objective realization. This is also the sphere of happiness and its opposite.
He is happy who finds his condition suited to his special character, will, and fancy, and so
enjoys himself in that condition. The history of the world is not the theatre of happiness.
Periods of happiness are blank pages in it, for they are periods of harmony--periods when the
antithesis is in abeyance. Reflection of self--the freedom above described--is abstractly defined
as the formal element of the activity of the absolute Idea. The realizing activity of which
we have spoken is the middle term of the syllogism, one of whose extremes is the universal
essence, the Idea, which reposes in the penetralia of Spirit; and the other, the complex of
external things--objective matter. That activity is the medium by which the universal latent
principle is translated into the domain of objectivity.

I will endeavor to make what has been said more vivid and clear by examples. The building of
a house is, in the first instance, a subjective aim and design. On the other hand we have,
as means, the several substances required for the work--iron, wood, stones. The elements are
made use of in working up this material--fire to melt the iron, wind to blow the fire, water
to set the wheels in motion in order to cut the wood, etc. The result is that the wind, which
has helped to build the house, is shut out by the house; so also are the violence of rains
and floods and the destructive powers of fire, so far as the house is made fire-proof. The
stones and beams obey the law of gravity--press downward--and so high walls are carried up.
Thus the elements are made use of in accordance with their nature, and yet are made to coöperate
for a product by which their operation is limited. It is thus that the passions of men are
gratified; they develop themselves and their aims in accordance with their natural tendencies
and build up the edifice of human society, thus fortifying a position for Right and Order against
themselves.

The connection of events above indicated involves also the fact that, in history, an additional
result is commonly produced by human actions beyond what they aim at and obtain what they immediately
recognize and desire. They gratify their own interest; but something further is thereby accomplished,
latent in the actions in question, though not present to their consciousness and not included
in their design. An analogous example is offered in the case of a man who, from a feeling of
revenge--perhaps not an unjust one, but produced by injury on the other's part--burns that
other man's house. A connection is immediately established between the deed itself, taken abstractly,
and a train of circumstances not directly included in it. In itself it consisted in merely
bringing a small flame into contact with a small portion of a beam. Events not involved in
that simple act follow of themselves. The part of the beam which was set afire is connected
with its remote portions, the beam itself is united with the woodwork of the house generally,
and this with other houses, so that a wide conflagration ensues which destroys the goods and
chattels of many other persons besides those belonging to the person against whom the act of
revenge was first directed, perhaps even costs not a few men their lives. This lay neither
in the deed intrinsically nor in the design of the man who committed it. But the action has
a further general bearing. In the design of the doer it was only revenge executed against an
individual in the destruction of his property, but it is, moreover, a crime, and that involves
punishment also. This may not have been present to the mind of the perpetrator, still less
in his intention; but his deed itself, the general principles it calls into play, its substantial
content, entail it. By this example I wish only to impress on you the consideration that, in
a simple act, something further may be implicated than lies in the intention and consciousness
of the agent. The example before us involves, however, the additional consideration that the
substance of the act, consequently, we may say, the act itself, recoils upon the perpetrator--reacts
upon him with destructive tendency. This union of the two extremes--the embodiment of a general
idea in the form of direct reality and the elevation of a speciality into connection with universal
truth--is brought to pass, at first sight, under the conditions of an utter diversity of nature
between the two and an indifference of the one extreme toward the other. The aims which the
agents set before them are limited and special; but it must be remarked that the agents themselves
are intelligent thinking beings. The purport of their desires is interwoven with general, essential
considerations of justice, good, duty, etc.; for mere desire--volition in its rough and savage
forms--falls not within the scene and sphere of universal history. Those general considerations,
which form at the same time a norm for directing aims and actions, have a determinate purport;
for such an abstraction as "good for its own sake," has no place in living reality. If men
are to act they must not only intend the Good, but must have decided for themselves whether
this or that particular thing is a good. What special course of action, however, is good or
not, is determined, as regards the ordinary contingencies of private life, by the laws and
customs of a State; and here no great difficulty is presented. Each individual has his position;
he knows, on the whole, what a just, honorable course of conduct is. As to ordinary, private
relations, the assertion that it is difficult to choose the right and good--the regarding it
as the mark of an exalted morality to find difficulties and raise scruples on that score--may
be set down to an evil or perverse will, which seeks to evade duties not in themselves of a
perplexing nature, or, at any rate, to an idly reflective habit of mind--where a feeble will
affords no sufficient exercise to the faculties--leaving them therefore to find occupation
within themselves and to expand themselves on moral self-adulation.

It is quite otherwise with the comprehensive relations with which history has to do. In this
sphere are presented those momentous collisions between existing, acknowledged duties, laws,
and rights, and those contingencies which are adverse to this fixed system, which assail and
even destroy its foundations and existence, and whose tenor may nevertheless seem good--on
the large scale, advantageous--yes, even indispensable and necessary. These contingencies realize
themselves in history; they involve a general principle of a different order from that on which
depends the permanence of a people or a State. This principle is an essential phase in the
development of the creating Idea, of Truth striving and urging toward (consciousness of) itself.
Historical men--world-famous individuals--are those in whose aims such a general principle lies.

Cæsar, in danger of losing a position--not perhaps at that time of superiority, yet at least
of equality with the others who were at the head of the State, and of succumbing to those who
were just on the point of becoming his enemies--belongs essentially to this category. These
enemies--who were at the same time pursuing their own personal aims--had on their side the
form of the constitution, and the power conferred by an appearance of justice. Cæsar was contending
for the maintenance of his position, honor, and safety; and, since the power of his opponents
included the sovereignty over the provinces of the Roman Empire, his victory secured for him
the conquest of that entire Empire; and he thus became--though leaving the form of the constitution--the
autocrat of the State. What secured for him the execution of a design, which in the first instance
was of negative import--the autocracy of Rome--was, however, at the same time an independently
necessary feature in the history of Rome and of the world. It was not, then, his private gain
merely, but an unconscious impulse that occasioned the accomplishment of that for which the
time was ripe. Such are all great historical men, whose own particular aims involve those large
issues which are the will of the World-Spirit. They may be called heroes, inasmuch as they
have derived their purposes and their vocation, not from the calm, regular course of things,
sanctioned by the existing order, but from a concealed fount--one which has not attained to
phenomenal, present existence--from that inner Spirit, still hidden beneath the surface, which,
impinging on the outer world as on a shell, bursts it in pieces, because it is another kernel
than that which belonged to the shell in question. They are men, therefore, who appear to draw
the impulse of their life from themselves, and whose deeds have produced a condition of things
and a complex of historical relations which appear to be only their own interest and their
own work.

Such individuals had no consciousness of the general Idea they were unfolding, while prosecuting
their aims; on the contrary, they were practical, political men. But, at the same time, they
were thinking men, who had an insight into the requirements of the time--what was ripe for
development. This was the very truth for their age, for their world--the species next in order,
so to speak, and which was already formed in the womb of time. It was theirs to know this nascent
principle, the necessary, directly sequent step in progress, which their world was to take,
to make this their aim, and to expend their energy in promoting it. World-historical men--the
heroes of an epoch--must, therefore, be recognized as its clear-sighted ones; their deeds,
their words are the best of that time. Great men have formed purposes to satisfy themselves,
not others. Whatever prudent designs and counsels they might have learned from others would
be the more limited and inconsistent features in their career; for it was they who best understood
affairs, from whom others learned, and approved, or at least acquiesced in, their policy. For
that Spirit which had taken this fresh step in history is the inmost soul of all individuals,
but in a state of unconsciousness which the great men in question aroused. Their fellows, therefore,
follow these soul-leaders; for they feel the irresistible power of their own inner Spirit thus
embodied. If we go on to cast a look at the fate of these world-historical persons, whose vocation
it was to be the agents of the World-Spirit, we shall find it to have been no happy one. They
attained no calm enjoyment; their whole life was labor and trouble; their whole nature was
naught else but their master-passion. When their object is attained they fall off like empty
husks from the kernel. They die early, like Alexander; they are murdered, like Cæsar; transported
to St. Helena, like Napoleon. This fearful consolation--that historical men have not enjoyed
what is called happiness, and of which only private life (and this may be passed under various
external circumstances) is capable--this consolation those may draw from history who stand
in need of it; and it is craved by envy, vexed at what is great and transcendent, striving,
therefore, to depreciate it and to find some flaw in it. Thus in modern times it has been demonstrated
ad nauseam that princes are generally unhappy on their thrones; in consideration of which the
possession of a throne is tolerated, and men acquiesce in the fact that not themselves but
the personages in question are its occupants. The free man, we may observe, is not envious,
but gladly recognizes what is great and exalted, and rejoices that it exists.

It is in the light of those common elements which constitute the interest and therefore the
passions of individuals that these historical men are to be regarded. They are great men, because
they willed and accomplished something great--not a mere fancy, a mere intention, but whatever
met the case and fell in with the needs of the age. This mode of considering them also excludes
the so-called "psychological" view, which, serving the purpose of envy most effectually, contrives
so to refer all actions to the heart, to bring them under such a subjective aspect, that their
authors appear to have done everything under the impulse of some passion, mean or grand, some
morbid craving, and, on account of these passions and cravings, to have been immoral men. Alexander
of Macedon partly subdued Greece, and then Asia; therefore he was possessed by a morbid craving
for conquest. He is alleged to have acted from a craving for fame, for conquest; and the proof
that these were the impelling motives is that he did what resulted in fame. What pedagogue
has not demonstrated of Alexander the Great, of Julius Cæsar, that they were instigated by
such passions, and were consequently immoral men? From this the conclusion immediately follows
that he, the pedagogue, is a better man than they, because he has not such passions--a proof
of which lies in the fact that he does not conquer Asia, or vanquish Darius and Porus, but,
while he enjoys life himself, lets others enjoy it too. These psychologists are particularly
fond of contemplating those peculiarities of great historical figures which appertain to them
as private persons. Man must eat and drink; he sustains relations to friends and acquaintances;
he has passing impulses and ebullitions of temper. "No man is a hero to his valet-de-chambre,"
is a well-known proverb; I have added--and Goethe repeated it ten years later--"but not because
the former is no hero, but because the latter is a valet." He takes off the hero's boots, assists
him to bed, knows that he prefers champagne, etc. Historical personages waited upon in historical
literature by such psychological valets come poorly off; they are brought down by these their
attendants to a level with, or, rather, a few degrees below the level of, the morality of such
exquisite discerners of spirits. The Thersites of Homer who abuses the kings is a standing
figure for all times. Blows--that is, beating with a solid cudgel--he does not get in every
age, as in the Homeric one; but his envy, his egotism, is the thorn which he has to carry in
his flesh; and the undying worm that gnaws him is the tormenting consideration that his excellent
views and vituperations remain absolutely without result in the world. But our satisfaction
at the fate of Thersitism also, may have its sinister side.

A world-famous individual is not so unwise as to indulge a variety of wishes to divide his
regards. He is devoted to the one aim, regardless of all else. It is even possible that such
men may treat other great, even sacred interests, inconsiderately--conduct which is deserving
of moral reprehension. But so mighty a form must trample down many innocent flowers and crush
to pieces many an object in its path.

The special interest of passion is thus inseparable from the active development of a general
principle; for it is from the special and determinate, and from its negation, that the universal
results. Particularity contends with its like, and some loss is involved in the issue. It is
not the general idea that is implicated in opposition and combat, and that is exposed to danger.
It remains in the background, untouched and uninjured. This may be called the cunning of reason--that
it sets the passions to work for itself, while that which develops its existence through such
impulsion pays the penalty and suffers loss. For it is phenomenal being that is so treated,
and, of this, a portion is of no value, another is positive and real. The particular is, for
the most part, of too trifling value as compared with the general; individuals are sacrificed
and abandoned. The Idea pays the penalty of determinate existence and of corruptibility, not
from itself, but from the passions of individuals.

But though we might tolerate the idea that individuals, their desires, and the gratification
of them, are thus sacrificed, and their happiness given up to the empire of chance, to which
it belongs, and that, as a general rule, individuals come under the category of means to an
ulterior end, there is one aspect of human individuality which we should hesitate to regard
in that subordinate light, even in relation to the highest, since it is absolutely no subordinate
element, but exists in those individuals as inherently eternal and divine--I mean morality,
ethics, religion. Even when speaking of the realization of the great ideal aim by means of
individuals, the subjective element in them--their interest and that of their cravings and
impulses, their views and judgments, though exhibited as the merely formal side of their existence--was
spoken of as having an infinite right to be consulted. The first idea that presents itself
in speaking of means is that of something external to the object, yet having no share in the
object itself. But merely natural things--even the commonest lifeless objects--used as means,
must be of such a kind as adapts them to their purpose; they must possess something in common
with it. Human beings, least of all, sustain the bare external relation of mere means to the
great ideal aim. Not only do they, in the very act of realizing it, make it the occasion of
satisfying personal desires whose purport is diverse from that aim, but they share in that
ideal aim itself, and are, for that very reason, objects of their own existence--not formally
merely, as the world of living beings generally is, whose individual life is essentially subordinate
to that of man and its properly used up as an instrument. Men, on the contrary, are objects
of existence to themselves, as regards the intrinsic import of the aim in question. To this
order belongs that in them which we would exclude from the category of mere means--morality,
ethics, religion. That is to say, man is an object of existence in himself only in virtue of
the Divine that is in him--the quality that was designated at the outset as Reason, which,
in view of its activity and power of self-determination, was called freedom. And we affirm--without
entering at present on the proof of the assertion--that religion, morality, etc., have their
foundation and source in that principle, and so are essentially elevated above all alien necessity
and chance. And here we must remark that individuals, to the extent of their freedom, are responsible
for the depravation and enfeeblement of morals and religion. This is the seal of the absolute
and sublime destiny of man--that he knows what is good and what is evil; that his destiny is
his very ability to will either good or evil--in one word, that he is the subject of moral
imputation, imputation not only of evil, but of good, and not only concerning this or that
particular matter, and all that happens ab extra, but also the good and evil attaching to his
individual freedom. The brute alone is simply innocent. It would, however, demand an extensive
explanation--as extensive as the analysis of moral freedom itself--to preclude or obviate all
the misunderstandings which the statement that what is called innocence imports the entire
unconsciousness of evil--is wont to occasion.

In contemplating the fate which virtue, morality, even piety experience in history, we must
not fall into the Litany of Lamentations, that the good and pious often, or for the most part,
fare ill in the world, while the evil-disposed and wicked prosper. The term prosperity is used
in a variety of meanings--riches, outward honor, and the like. But in speaking of something
which in and for itself constitutes an aim of existence, that so-called well or ill faring
of these or those isolated individuals cannot be regarded as an essential element in the rational
order of the universe. With more justice than happiness--or a fortunate environment for individuals--it
is demanded of the grand aim of the world's existence that it should foster, nay, involve the
execution and ratification of good, moral, righteous purposes. What makes men morally discontented
(a discontent, by the way, on which they somewhat pride themselves), is that they do not find
the present adapted to the realization of aims which they hold to be right and just--more especially,
in modern times, ideals of political constitutions; they contrast unfavorably things as they
are, with their idea of things as they ought to be. In this case it is not private interest
nor passion that desires gratification, but reason, justice, liberty; and, equipped with this
title, the demand in question assumes a lofty bearing and readily adopts a position, not merely
of discontent, but of open revolt against the actual condition of the world. To estimate such
a feeling and such views aright, the demands insisted upon and the very dogmatic opinions asserted
must be examined. At no time so much as in our own, have such general principles and notions
been advanced, or with greater assurance. If, in days gone by, history seems to present itself
as a struggle of passions, in our time--though displays of passion are not wanting--it exhibits,
partly a predominance of the struggle of notions assuming the authority of principles, partly
that of passions and interests essentially subjective but under the mask of such higher sanctions.
The pretensions thus contended for as legitimate in the name of that which has been stated
as the ultimate aim of Reason, pass accordingly for absolute aims--to the same extent as religion,
morals, ethics. Nothing, as before remarked, is now more common than the complaint that the
ideals which imagination sets up are not realized, that these glorious dreams are destroyed
by cold actuality. These ideals which, in the voyage of life, founder on the rocks of hard
reality may be in the first instance only subjective and belong to the idiosyncrasy of the
individual, imagining himself the highest and wisest. Such do not properly belong to this category.
For the fancies which the individual in his isolation indulges cannot be the model for universal
reality, just as universal law is not designed for the units of the mass. These as such may,
in fact, find their interests thrust decidedly into the background. But by the term "Ideal"
we also understand the ideal of Reason--of the good, of the true. Poets--as, for instance,
Schiller--have painted such ideals touchingly and with strong emotion, and with the deeply
melancholy conviction that they could not be realized. In affirming, on the contrary, that
the Universal Reason does realize itself, we have indeed nothing to do with the individual,
empirically regarded; that admits of degrees of better and worse, since here chance and speciality
have received authority from the Idea to exercise their monstrous power; much, therefore, in
particular aspects of the grand phenomenon, might be criticized. This subjective fault-finding--which,
however, only keeps in view the individual and its deficiency, without taking notice of Reason
pervading the whole--is easy; and inasmuch as it asserts an excellent intention with regard
to the good of the whole, and seems to result from a kindly heart, it feels authorized to give
itself airs and assume great consequence. It is easier to discover a deficiency in individuals,
in States, and in Providence, than to see their real import and value. For in this merely negative
fault-finding a proud position is taken--one which overlooks the object without having entered
into it, without having comprehended its positive aspect. Age generally makes men more tolerant;
youth is always discontented. The tolerance of age is the result of the ripeness of a judgment
which, not merely as the result of indifference, is satisfied even with what is inferior, but,
more deeply taught by the grave experience of life, has been led to perceive the substantial,
solid worth of the object in question. The insight, then, to which--in contradistinction to
those ideals--philosophy is to lead us, is, that the real world is as it ought to be--that
the truly good, the universal divine Reason, is not a mere abstraction, but a vital principle
capable of realizing itself. This Good, this Reason, in its most concrete form, is God. God
governs the world; the actual working of His government, the carrying out of His plan, is the
history of the world. This plan philosophy strives to comprehend; for only that which has been
developed as the result of it possesses bona fide reality. That which does not accord with
it is negative, worthless existence. Before the pure light of this divine Idea--which is no
mere Ideal--the phantom of a world whose events are an incoherent concourse of fortuitous circumstances,
utterly vanishes. Philosophy wishes to discover the substantial purport, the real side of the
divine idea, and to justify the so much despised reality of things; for Reason is the comprehension
of the divine work. But as to what concerns the perversion, corruption, and ruin of religious,
ethical, and moral purposes and states of society generally, it must be affirmed that, in their
essence, these are infinite and eternal, but that the forms they assume may be of a limited
order, and consequently may belong to the domain of mere nature and be subject to the sway
of chance; they are therefore perishable and exposed to decay and corruption. Religion and
morality--in the same way as inherently universal essences--have the peculiarity of being present
in the individual soul, in the full extent of their Idea, and therefore truly and really; although
they may not manifest themselves in it in extenso and are not applied to fully developed relations.
The religion, the morality of a limited sphere of life, for instance that of a shepherd or
a peasant, in its intensive concentration and limitation to a few perfectly simple relations
of life has infinite worth--the same worth as the religion and morality of extensive knowledge
and of an existence rich in the compass of its relations and actions. This inner focus, this
simple region of the claims of subjective freedom, the home of volition, resolution, and action,
the abstract sphere of conscience--that which comprises the responsibility and moral value
of the individual--remains untouched and is quite shut out from the noisy din of the world's
history--including not merely external and temporal changes but also those entailed by the
absolute necessity inseparable from the realization of the idea of freedom itself. But, as
a general truth, this must be regarded as settled, that whatever in the world possesses claims
as noble and glorious has nevertheless a higher existence above it. The claim of the World-Spirit
rises above all special claims.

These observations may suffice in reference to the means which the World-Spirit uses for realizing
its Idea. Stated simply and abstractly, this mediation involves the activity of personal existences
in whom Reason is present as their absolute, substantial being, but a basis, in the first instance,
still obscure and unknown to them. But the subject becomes more complicated and difficult when
we regard individuals not merely in their aspect of activity, but more concretely, in conjunction
with a particular manifestation of that activity in their religion and morality--forms of existence
which are intimately connected with Reason and share in its absolute claims. Here the relation
of mere means to an end disappears, and the chief bearings of this seeming difficulty in reference
to the absolute aim of Spirit have been briefly considered.

(3) The third point to be analyzed is, therefore: What is the object to be realized by these
means--that is, What is the form it assumes in the realm of reality? We have spoken of means;
but, in carrying out of a subjective, limited aim, we have also to take into consideration
the element of a material either already present or which has to be procured. Thus the question
would arise: What is the material in which the Ideal of Reason is wrought out? The primary
answer would be: Personality itself, human desires, subjectivity generally. In human knowledge
and volition as its material element Reason attains positive existence. We have considered
subjective volition where it has an object which is the truth and essence of reality--viz.,
where it constitutes a great world-historical passion. As a subjective will, occupied with
limited passions, it is dependent, and can gratify its desires only within the limits of this
dependence. But the subjective will has also a substantial life, a reality, in which it moves
in the region of essential being and has the essential itself as the object of its existence.
This essential being is the union of the subjective with the rational will; it is the moral
whole, the State, which is that form of reality in which the individual has and enjoys his
freedom, but on the condition of his recognizing, believing in, and willing that which is common
to the whole. And this must not be understood as if the subjective will of the social unit
attained its gratification and enjoyment through that common will, as if this were a means
provided for its benefit, as if the individual, in his relations to other individuals, thus
limited his freedom, in order that this universal limitation, the mutual constraint of all,
might secure a small space of liberty for each. Rather, we affirm, are law, morality, government,
and these alone, the positive reality and completion of freedom. Freedom of a low and limited
order is mere caprice, which finds its exercise in the sphere of particular and limited desires.

Subjective volition, passion, is that which sets men in activity, that which effects "practical"
realization. The Idea is the inner spring of action; the State is the actually existing, realized
moral life. For it is the unity of the universal, essential will, with that of the individual;
and this is "morality." The individual living in this unity has a moral life and possesses
a value that consists in this substantiality alone. Sophocles in his Antigone says, "The divine
commands are not of yesterday, nor of today; no, they have an infinite existence, and no one
could say whence they came." The laws of morality are not accidental, but are the essentially
rational. It is the very object of the State that what is essential in the practical activity
of men and in their dispositions should be duly recognized; that it should have a manifest
existence and maintain its position. It is the absolute interest of Reason that this moral
whole should exist; and herein lies the justification and merit of heroes who have founded
States, however rude these may have been. In the history of the world, only those peoples can
come under our notice which form a State; for it must be understood that the State is the realization
of freedom, i. e., of the absolute final aim, and that it exists for its own sake. It must
further be understood that all the worth which the human being possesses--all spiritual reality--he
possesses only through the State. For his spiritual reality consists in this, that his own
essence, Reason, is objectively present to him, that it possesses objective immediate existence
for him. Thus only is he fully conscious; thus only is he a partaker of morality, of a just
and moral social and political life. For truth is the unity of the universal and subjective
will; and the universal is to be found in the State, in its laws, and in its universal and
rational arrangements. The State is the Divine Idea as it exists on earth. We have in it, therefore,
the object of history in a more definite shape than before--that in which freedom obtains objectivity
and lives in the enjoyment of this objectivity. For law is the objectivity of Spirit, volition
in its true form. Only that will which obeys law is free; for it obeys itself--it is independent
and, therefore, free. When the State or our country constitutes a community of existence, when
the subjective will of man submits to laws, the contradiction between liberty and necessity
vanishes. The rational has necessary existence, as being the reality and substance of things,
and we are free in recognizing it as law and following it as the substance of our own being.
The objective and the subjective will are then reconciled and present one identical homogeneous
whole. For the morality (Sittlichkeit) of the State is not of that ethical (moralische) reflective
kind, in which one's own conviction bears sway; the latter is rather the peculiarity of the
modern time, while the true antique morality is based on the principle of abiding by one's
duty (to the State at large). An Athenian citizen did what was required of him, as it were
from instinct; but if I reflect on the object of my activity I must have the consciousness
that my will has been called into exercise. But morality is duty--substantial right, a "second
nature," as it has been justly called; for the first nature of man is his primary, merely animal,
existence.

The development in extenso of the idea of the State belongs to the philosophy of jurisprudence;
but it must be observed that in the theories of our time various errors are current respecting
it, which pass for established truths and have become fixed prejudices. We will mention only
a few of them, giving prominence to such as have a reference to the object of our history.

The error which first meets us is the direct opposite of our principle that the State presents
the realization of freedom--the opinion--that man is free by nature, but that in society, in
the State, to which nevertheless he is irresistibly impelled, he must limit this natural freedom.
That man is free by nature is quite correct in one sense, namely, that he is so according to
the idea of humanity; but we imply thereby that he is such only in virtue of his destiny--that
he has an undeveloped power to become such; for the "nature" of an object is exactly synonymous
with its "idea." But the view in question imports more than this. When man is spoken of as
"free by nature," the mode of his existence as well as his destiny is implied; his merely natural
and primary condition is intended. In this sense a "state of nature" is assumed in which mankind
at large is in the possession of its natural rights with the unconstrained exercise and enjoyment
of its freedom. This assumption is not raised to the dignity of the historical fact; it would
indeed be difficult, were the attempt seriously made, to point out any such condition as actually
existing or as having ever occurred. Examples of a savage state of life can be pointed out,
but they are marked by brutal passions and deeds of violence; while, however rude and simple
their, conditions, they involve social arrangements which, to use the common phrase, "restrain
freedom." That assumption is one of those nebulous images which theory produces, an idea which
it cannot avoid originating, but which it fathers upon real existence without sufficient historical
justification.

What we find such a state of nature to be, in actual experience, answers exactly to the idea
of a merely natural condition. Freedom as the ideal of that which is original and natural does
not exist as original and natural; rather must it first be sought out and won, and that by
an incalculable medial discipline of the intellectual and moral powers. The state of nature
is, therefore, predominantly that of injustice and violence, of untamed natural impulses, of
inhuman deeds and feelings. Limitation is certainly produced by society and the State, but
it is a limitation of the mere brute emotions and rude instincts, as also, in a more advanced
stage of culture, of the premeditated self-will of caprice and passion. This kind of constraint
is part of the instrumentality by which only the consciousness of freedom and the desire for
its attainment, in its true--that is, its rational and ideal form--can be obtained. To the
ideal of freedom, law and morality are indispensably requisite; and they are, in and for themselves,
universal existences, objects, and aims, which are discovered only by the activity of thought,
separating itself from the merely sensuous and developing itself in opposition thereto, and
which must, on the other hand, be introduced into and incorporated with the originally sensuous
will, and that contrarily to its natural inclination. The perpetually recurring misapprehension
of freedom consists in regarding that term only in its formal, subjective sense, abstracted
from its essential objects and aims; thus a constraint put upon impulse, desire, passion--pertaining
to the particular individual as such--a limitation of caprice and self-will is regarded as
a fettering of freedom. We should, on the contrary, look upon such limitation as the indispensable
proviso of emancipation. Society and the State are the very conditions in which freedom is
realized.

We must notice a second view, contravening the principle of the development of moral relations
into a legal form. The patriarchal condition is regarded, either in reference to the entire
race of man or to some branches of it, as exclusively that condition of things in which the
legal element is combined with a due recognition of the moral and emotional parts of our nature,
and in which justice, as united with these, truly influences the intercourse of the social
units. The basis of the patriarchal condition is the family relation, which develops the primary
form of conscious morality, succeeded by that of the State as its second phase. The patriarchal
condition is one of transition, in which the family has already advanced to the position of
a race of people, where the union, therefore, has already ceased to be simply a bond of love
and confidence and has become one of plighted service.

We must first examine the ethical principle of the Family, which may be reckoned as virtually
a single person, since its members have either mutually surrendered their individual personality
and consequently their legal position toward one another, with the rest of their particular
interests and desires, as in the case of the parents, or, in the care of children who are primarily
in that merely natural condition already mentioned, have not yet attained such an independent
personality. They live, therefore, in a unity of feeling, love, confidence, and faith in one
another, and, in a relation of mutual love, the one individual has the consciousness of himself
in the consciousness of another; he lives out of self; and in this mutual self-renunciation
each regains the life that had been virtually transferred to the other--gains, in fact, the
other's existence and his own, as involved with that other. The ultimate interests connected
with the necessities and external concerns of life, as well as the development that has to
take place within their circle, i. e., of the children, constitute a common object for the
members of the family. The spirit of the family--the Penates--form one substantial being, as
much as the spirit of a people in the State; and morality in both cases consists in a feeling,
a consciousness, and a will, not limited to individual personality and interest, but embracing
the common interests of the members generally. But this unity is, in the case of the family,
essentially one of feeling, not advancing beyond the limits of the merely natural. The piety
of the family relation should be respected in the highest degree by the State; by its means
the State obtains as its members individuals who are already moral (for as mere persons they
are not) and who, in uniting to form a State, bring with them that sound basis of a political
edifice--the capacity of feeling one with a whole. But the expansion of the family to a patriarchal
unity carries us beyond the ties of blood-relationship--the simply natural elements of that
basis; and outside of these limits the members of the community must enter upon the position
of independent personality. A review of the patriarchal condition, in extenso, would lead us
to give special attention to the theocratical constitution. The head of the patriarchal clan
is also its priest. If the family in its general relations is not yet separated from civic
society and the State, the separation of religion from it has also not yet taken place; and
so much the less since the piety of the hearth is itself a profoundly subjective state of feeling.

We have considered two aspects of freedom--the objective and the subjective; if, therefore,
freedom is asserted to consist in the individuals of a State, all agreeing in its arrangements,
it is evident that only the subjective aspect is regarded. The natural inference from this
principle is, that no law can be valid without the approval of all. It is attempted to obviate
this difficulty by the decision that the minority must yield to the majority; the majority
therefore bears sway; but long ago J.J. Rousseau remarked that, in that case, there would no
longer be freedom, for the will of the minority would cease to be respected. At the Polish
Diet each individual member had to give his consent before any political step could be taken;
and this kind of freedom it was that ruined the State. Besides, it is a dangerous and false
prejudice that the people alone have reason and insight, and know what justice is; for each
popular faction may represent itself as the people, and the question as to what constitutes
the State is one of advanced science and not of popular decision.

If the principle of regard for the individual will is recognized as the only basis of political
liberty, viz., that nothing should be done by or for the State to which all the members of
the body politic have not given their sanction, we have, properly speaking, no constitution.
The only arrangement found necessary would be, first, a centre having no will of its own, but
which should take into consideration what appeared to be the necessities of the State, and,
secondly, a contrivance for calling the members of the State together, for taking the votes,
and for performing the arithmetical operations of reckoning and comparing the number of votes
for the different propositions, and thereby deciding upon them. The State is an abstraction,
having even its generic existence in its citizens; but it is an actuality, and its simply generic
existence must embody itself in individual will and activity. The want of government and political
administration in general is felt; this necessitates the selection and separation from the
rest of those who have to take the helm in political affairs, to decide concerning them, and
to give orders to other citizens, with a view to the execution of their plans. If, for instance,
even the people in a democracy resolve on a war, a general must head the army. It is only by
a constitution that the abstraction--the State--attains life and reality; but this involves
the distinction between those who command and those who obey. Yet obedience seems inconsistent
with liberty, and those who command appear to do the very opposite of that which the fundamental
idea of the State, viz., that of freedom, requires. It is, however, urged that though the distinction
between commanding and obeying is absolutely necessary, because affairs could not go on without
it, and indeed, this seems only a compulsory limitation, external to and even contravening
freedom in the abstract--the constitution should be at least so framed that the citizens may
obey as little as possible and the smallest modicum of free volition be left to the commands
of the superiors; that the substance of that for which subordination is necessary, even in
its most important bearings, should be decided and resolved on by the people, by the will of
many or of all the citizens; though it is supposed to be thereby provided that the State should
be possessed of vigor and strength as a reality--an individual unity. The primary consideration
is, then, the distinction between the governing and the governed, and political constitutions
in the abstract have been rightly divided into monarchy, aristocracy, and democracy; this gives
occasion, however, for the remark that monarchy itself must be further divided into despotism
and monarchy proper; that in all the divisions to which the leading idea gives rise, only the
generic character is to be made prominent, it being not intended thereby that the particular
category under review should be exhausted as a form, order, or kind in its concrete development.
But it must especially be observed that the above mentioned divisions admit of a multitude
of particular modifications--not only such as lie within the limits of those classes themselves
but also such as are mixtures of several of these essentially distinct classes and which are
consequently misshapen, unstable, and inconsistent forms. In such a collision, the concerning
question is: What is the best constitution--that is, by what arrangement, organization, or
mechanism of the power of the State can its object be most surely attained? This object may
indeed be variously understood; for instance, as the calm enjoyment of life on part of the
citizens, or as universal happiness. Such aims have suggested the so-called ideals of constitutions,
and, as a particular branch of the subject, Ideals of the education of princes (Fénelon), or
of the governing body, the aristocracy at large (Plato); for the chief point they treat of
is the condition of those subjects who stand at the head of affairs, and in these ideals the
concrete details of political organization are not at all considered. The inquiry into the
best constitution is frequently treated as if not only the theory were an affair of subjective
independent conviction, but as if the introduction of a constitution recognized as the best,
or as superior to others, could be the result of a resolve adopted in this theoretical manner,
as if the form of a constitution were a matter of free choice, determined by nothing else but
reflection. Of this artless fashion was that deliberation--not indeed of the Persian people,
but of the Persian grandees, who had conspired to overthrow the pseudo-Smerdis and the Magi,
after their undertaking had succeeded and when there was no scion of the royal family living--as
to what constitution they should introduce into Persia; and Herodotus gives an equally naïve
account of this deliberation.

In the present day, the constitution of a country and people is not represented as so entirely
dependent on free and deliberate choice. The fundamental, but abstractly and therefore imperfectly,
entertained conception of freedom, has resulted in the republic being very generally regarded--in
theory--as the only just and true political constitution. Even many who occupy elevated official
positions under monarchical constitutions, so far from being opposed to this idea are actually
its supporters; only they see that such a constitution, though the best, cannot be realized
under all circumstances, and that, while men are what they are, we must be satisfied with less
freedom, the monarchical constitution, under the given circumstances and the present moral
condition of the people, being even regarded as the most advantageous. In this view also the
necessity of a particular constitution is made to depend on the condition of the people as
though the latter were non-essential and accidental. This representation is founded on the
distinction which the reflective understanding makes between an idea and the corresponding
reality. This reflection holding to an abstract and consequently untrue idea, not grasping
it in its completeness, or--which is virtually, though not in point of form, the same--not
taking a concrete view of a people and a State. We shall have to show, further, on, that the
constitution adopted by a people makes one substance, one spirit, with its religion, its art,
and its philosophy, or, at least, with its conceptions, thoughts and culture generally--not
to expatiate upon the additional influences ab extra, of climate, of neighbors, of its place
in the world. A State is an individual totality, of which you cannot select any particular
side, although a supremely important one, such as its political constitution, and deliberate
and decide respecting it in that isolated form. Not only is that constitution most intimately
connected with and dependent on those other spiritual forces, but the form of the entire moral
and intellectual individuality, comprising all the forces it embodies, is only a step in the
development of the grand whole, with its place pre-appointed in the process--a fact which gives
the highest sanction to the constitution in question and establishes its absolute necessity.
The origin of a State involves imperious lordship on the one hand, instinctive submission on
the other. But even obedience--lordly power, and the fear inspired by a ruler--in itself implies
some degree of voluntary connection. Even in barbarous states this is the case; it is not the
isolated will of individuals that prevails; individual pretensions are relinquished, and the
general will is the essential bond of political union. This unity of the general and the particular
is the Idea itself, manifesting itself as a State, and which subsequently undergoes further
development within itself. The abstract yet necessitated process in the development of truly
independent states is as follows: They begin with regal power, whether of patriarchal or military
origin; in the next phase, particularity and individuality assert themselves in the form of
aristocracy and democracy; lastly, we have the subjection of these separate interests to a
single power, but one which can be absolutely none other than one outside of which those spheres
have an independent position, viz., the monarchical. Two phases of royalty, therefore, must
be distinguished--a primary and a secondary. This process is necessitated to the end that the
form of government assigned to a particular stage of development must present itself; it is
therefore no matter of choice, but is the form adapted to the spirit of the people.

In the constitution the main feature of interest is the self-development of the rational, that
is, the political condition of a people, the setting free of the successive elements of the
Idea, so that the several powers in the State manifest themselves as separate, attain their
appropriate and special perfection, and yet, in this independent condition, work together for
one object and are held together by it--i. e., form an organic whole. The State is thus the
embodiment of rational freedom, realizing and recognizing itself in an objective form. For
its objectivity consists in this--that its successive stages are not merely ideal, but are
present in an appropriate reality, and that in their separate and several workings they are
absolutely merged in that agency by which the totality, the soul, the individuate unity, is
produced, and of which it is the result.

The State is the Idea of Spirit in the external manifestation of human will and its freedom.
It is to the State, therefore, that change in the aspect of history indissolubly attaches itself;
and the successive phases of the idea manifest themselves in it as distinct political principles.
The constitutions under which world-historical peoples have reached their culmination, are
peculiar to them, and therefore do not present a generally applicable political basis. Were
it otherwise the differences of similar constitutions would consist only in a peculiar method
of expanding and developing that generic basis, whereas they really originate in diversity
of principle. From the comparison therefore of the political institutions of the ancient world-historical
peoples, it so happens that, for the most recent principle of a constitution for the principle
of our own times, nothing, so to speak, can be learned. In science and art it is quite otherwise--that
is, the ancient philosophy is so decidedly the basis of the modern that it is inevitably contained
in the latter and constitutes its basis. In this case the relation is that of a continuous
development of the same structure, whose foundation-stone, walls, and roof have remained what
they were. In art, the Greek itself, in its original form, furnishes us the best models, but
in regard to political constitution it is quite otherwise; here the ancient and the modern
have not their essential principle in common. Abstract definitions and dogmas respecting just
government--importing that intelligence and virtue ought to bear sway--are, indeed, common
to both, but nothing is so absurd as to look to Greeks, Romans, or Orientals, for models for
the political arrangements of our time. From the East may be derived beautiful pictures of
a patriarchal condition, of paternal government, and of devotion to it on the part of peoples;
from Greeks and Romans, descriptions of popular liberty. Among the latter we find the idea
of a free constitution admitting all the citizens to a share in deliberations and resolves
respecting the affairs and laws of the commonwealth. In our times, too, this is its general
acceptation; only with this modification, that--since our States are so large, and there are
so many of "the many," the latter (direct action being impossible) should by the indirect method
of elective substitution express their concurrence with resolves affecting the common weal--that
is, that for legislative purposes generally the people should be represented by deputies. The
so-called representative constitution is that form of government with which we connect the
idea of a free constitution; and this notion has become a rooted prejudice. On this theory
people and government are separated. But there is a perversity in this antithesis, an ill-intentioned
ruse designed to insinuate that the people are the totality of the State. Besides, the basis
of this view is the principle of isolated individuality--the absolute validity of the subjective
will--a dogma which we have already investigated. The great point is that freedom, in its ideal
conception, has not subjective will and caprice for its principle, but the recognition of the
universal will, and that the process by which freedom is realized is the free development of
its successive stages. The subjective will is a merely formal determination--a carte blanche--not
including what it is that is willed. Only the rational will is that universal principle which
independently determines and unfolds its own being and develops its successive elemental phases
as organic members. Of this Gothic-cathedral architecture the ancients knew nothing.

At an earlier stage of the discussion we established the two elemental considerations: First,
the idea of freedom as the absolute and final aim; secondly, the means for realizing it, i.
e., the subjective side of knowledge and will, with its life, movement, and activity. We then
recognized the State as the moral whole and the reality of freedom, and consequently as the
objective unity of these two elements. For although we make this distinction in two aspects
for our consideration, it must be remarked that they are intimately connected, and that their
connection is involved in the idea of each when examined separately. We have, on the one hand,
recognized the Idea in the definite form of freedom, conscious of and willing itself, having
itself alone as its object, involving at the same time the pure and simple Idea of Reason and,
likewise, what we have called Subject, self-consciousness, Spirit, actually existing in the
world. If, on the other hand, we consider subjectivity, we find that subjective knowledge and
will is thought. But by the very act of thoughtful cognition and volition, I will the universal
object--the substance of absolute Reason. We observe, therefore, an essential union between
the objective side--the Idea, and the subjective side--the personality that conceives and wills
it. The objective existence of this union is the State, which is therefore the basis and centre
of the other concrete elements of the life of a people--of art, of law, of morals, of religion,
of science. All the activity of Spirit has only this object--the becoming conscious of this
union, i. e., of its own freedom. Among the forms of this conscious union religion occupies
the highest position. In it Spirit-rising above the limitations of temporal and secular existence--becomes
conscious of the Absolute Spirit, and, in this consciousness of the Self-Existent Being, renounces
its individual interest; it lays this aside in devotion--a state of mind in which it refuses
to occupy itself any longer with the limited and particular. By sacrifice man expresses his
renunciation of his property, his will, his individual feelings. The religious concentration
of the soul appears in the form of feeling; it nevertheless passes also into reflection; a
form of worship (cultus) is a result of reflection. The second form of the union of the objective
and subjective in the human spirit is art; this advances farther into the realm of the actual
and sensuous than religion. In its noblest walk it is occupied with representing, not, indeed,
the Spirit of God, but certainly the Form of God; and, in its secondary aims, that which is
divine and spiritual generally. Its office is to render visible the divine, presenting it to
the imaginative and intuitive faculty. But the true is the object not only of conception and
feeling, as in religion--and of intuition, as in art--but also of the thinking faculty; and
this gives us the third form of the union in question--philosophy. This is consequently the
highest, freest, and wisest place. Of course we are not intending to investigate these three
phases here; they have only suggested themselves in virtue of their occupying the same general
ground as the object here considered the State.

THE PHILOSOPHY OF LAW (1832)

BY GEORG WILHELM FRIEDRICH HEGEL

TRANSLATED BY J. LOEWENBERG, PH.D. Assistant in Philosophy, Harvard University

THE STATE

IDEA AND AIM OF THE STATE

The State is the realization of the ethical idea. It is the ethical spirit as revealed, self-conscious,
substantial will. It is the will which thinks and knows itself, and carries out what it knows,
and in so far as it knows. The unreflected existence of the State rests on custom, and its
reflected existence on the self-consciousness of the individual, on his knowledge and activity.
The individual, in return, has his substantial freedom in the State, as the essence, purpose,
and product of his activity.

The true State is the ethical whole and the realization of freedom. It is the absolute purpose
of reason that freedom should be realized. The State is the spirit, which lives in the world
and there realizes itself consciously; while in nature it is actual only as its own other or
as dormant spirit. Only as present in consciousness, knowing itself as an existing object,
is it the State. The State is the march of God through the world, its ground is the power of
reason realizing itself as will. The idea of the State should not connote any particular State,
or particular institution; one must rather consider the Idea only, this actual God, by itself.
Because it is more easy to find defects than to grasp the positive meaning, one readily falls
into the mistake of emphasizing so much the particular nature of the State as to overlook its
inner organic essence. The State is no work of art. It exists in the world, and thus in the
realm of caprice, accident, and error. Evil behavior toward it may disfigure it on many sides.
But the ugliest man, the criminal, the invalid, and the cripple, are still living human beings.
The affirmative, life, persists in spite of defects, and it is this affirmative which alone
is here in question.

In the State, everything depends upon the unity of the universal and the particular. In the
ancient States the subjective purpose was absolutely one with the will of the State. In modern
times, on the contrary, we demand an individual opinion, an individual will and conscience.
The ancients had none of these in the modern sense; the final thing for them was the will of
the State. While in Asiatic despotisms the individual had no inner self and no self-justification,
in the modern world man demands to be honored for the sake of his subjective individuality.

The union of duty and right has the twofold aspect that what the State demands as duty should
directly be the right of the individual, since the State is nothing but the organization of
the concept of freedom. The determinations of the individual will are given by the State objectivity,
and it is through the State alone that they attain truth and realization. The State is the
sole condition of the attainment of the particular end and good.

Political disposition, called patriotism--the assurance resting in truth and the will which
has become a custom--is simply the result of the institutions subsisting in the State, institutions
in which reason is actually present.

Under patriotism one frequently understands a mere willingness to perform extraordinary acts
and sacrifices. But patriotism is essentially the sentiment of regarding, in the ordinary circumstances
and ways of life, the weal of the community as the substantial basis and the final end. It
is upon this consciousness, present in the ordinary course of life and under all circumstances,
that the disposition to heroic effort is founded. But as people are often rather magnanimous
than just, they easily persuade themselves that they possess the heroic kind of patriotism,
in order to save themselves the trouble of having the truly patriotic sentiment, or to excuse
the lack of it.

Political sentiment, as appearance, must be distinguished from what people truly will. What
they at bottom will is the real cause, but they cling to particular interests and delight in
the vain contemplation of improvements. The conviction of the necessary stability of the State
in which alone the particular interests can be realized, people indeed possess, but custom
makes invisible that upon which our whole existence rests; it does not occur to any one, when
he safely passes through the streets at night, that it could be otherwise. The habit of safety
has become a second nature, and we do not reflect that it is the result of the activity of
special institutions. It is through force this is frequently the superficial opinion-that the
State coheres, but what alone holds it together is the fundamental sense of order, which is
possessed by all.

The State is an organism or the development of the idea into its differences. These different
sides are the different powers of the State with their functions and activities, by means of
which the universal is constantly and necessarily producing itself, and, being presupposed
in its own productive function, it is thus always actively present. This organism is the political
constitution. It eternally springs from the State, just as the State in turn maintains itself
through the constitution. If these two things fall asunder, if both different sides become
independent of each other, then the unity which the constitution produces is no longer operative;
the fable of the stomach and the other organs may be applied to it. It is the nature of an
organism that all its parts must constitute a certain unity; if one part asserts its independence
the other parts must go to destruction. No predicates, principles, and the like suffice to
express the nature of the State; it must be comprehended as an organism.

The State is real, and its reality consists in the interest of the whole being realized in
particular ends. Actuality is always the unity of universality and particularity, and the differentiation
of the universal into particular ends. These particular ends seem independent, though they
are borne and sustained by the whole only. In so far as this unity is absent, no thing is real,
though it may exist. A bad State is one which merely exists. A sick body also exists; but it
has no true reality. A hand, which is cut off, still looks like a hand and exists, but it has
no reality. True reality is necessity. What is real is internally necessary.

To the complete State belongs, essentially, consciousness and thought. The State knows thus
what it wills, and it knows it under the form of thought.

The essential difference between the State and religion consists in that the commands of the
State have the form of legal duty, irrespective of the feelings accompanying their performance;
the sphere of religion, on the other hand, is in the inner life. Just as the State, were it
to frame its commands as religion does, would endanger the right of the inner life, so the
church, if it acts as a State and imposes punishment, degenerates into a tyrannical religion.

In the State one must want nothing which is not an expression of rationality. The State is
the world which the spirit has made for itself; it has therefore a determinate and self-conscious
course. One often speaks of the wisdom of God in nature, but one must not believe that the
physical world of nature is higher than the world of spirit. Just as spirit is superior to
nature, so is the State superior to the physical life. We must therefore adore the State as
the manifestation of the divine on earth, and consider that, if it is difficult to comprehend
nature, it is infinitely harder to grasp the essence of the State. It is an important fact
that we, in modern times, have attained definite insight into the State in general and are
much engaged in discussing and making constitutions; but that does not advance the problem
much. It is necessary to treat a rational matter in the light of reason, in order to learn
its essential nature and to know that the obvious does not always constitute the essential.

When we speak of the different functions of the powers of the State, we must not fall into
the enormous error of supposing each power to have an abstract, independent existence, since
the powers are rather to be differentiated as elements in the conception of the State. Were
the powers to be in abstract independence, however, it is clear that two independent things
could never constitute a unity, but must produce war, and the result would be destruction of
the whole or restoration of unity by force. Thus, in the French Revolution, at one time the
legislative power had swallowed up the executive, at another time the executive had usurped
the legislative power.

THE CONSTITUTION

The constitution is rational, in so far as the State defines and differentiates its functions
according to the nature of its concept.

Who shall make the constitution? This question seems intelligible, yet on closer examination
reveals itself as meaningless, for it presupposes the existence of no constitution, but only
a mere mass of atomic individuals. How a mass of individuals is to come by a constitution,
whether by its own efforts or by those of others, whether by goodness, thought, or force, it
must decide for itself, for with a disorganized mob the concept of the State has nothing to
do. But if the question does presuppose an already existing constitution, then to make a constitution
means only to change it. The presupposition of a constitution implies, however, at once, that
any modification in it must take place constitutionally. It is absolutely essential that the
constitution, though having a temporal origin, should not be regarded as made. It (the principle
of constitution) is rather to be conceived as absolutely perpetual and rational, and therefore
as divine, substantial, and above and beyond the sphere of what is made.

Subjective freedom is the principle of the whole modern world--the principle that all essential
aspects of the spiritual totality should develop and attain their right. From this point of
view one can hardly raise the idle question as to which form is the better, monarchy or democracy.
One can but say that the forms of all constitutions are one-sided that are not able to tolerate
the principle of free subjectivity and that do not know how to conform to the fully developed
reason.

Since spirit is real only in what it knows itself to be, and since the State, as the nation's
spirit, is the law permeating all its affairs, its ethical code, and the consciousness of its
individuals, the constitution of a people chiefly depends upon the kind and the character of
its self-consciousness. In it lies both its subjective freedom and the reality of the constitution.

To think of giving a people a constitution a priori, though according to its content a more
or less rational one--such a whim would precisely overlook that element which renders a constitution
more than a mere abstract object. Every nation, therefore, has the constitution which is appropriate
to it and belongs to it.

The State must, in its constitution, permeate all situations. A constitution is not a thing
just made; it is the work of centuries, the idea and the consciousness of what is rational,
in so far as it is developed in a people. No constitution, therefore, is merely created by
the subjects of the State. The nation must feel that its constitution embodies its right and
its status, otherwise the constitution may exist externally, but has no meaning or value. The
need and the longing for a better constitution may often indeed be present in individuals,
but that is quite different from the whole multitude being permeated with such an idea--that
comes much later. The principle of morality, the inwardness of Socrates originated necessarily
in his day, but it took time before it could pass into general self-consciousness.

THE POWER OF THE PRINCE

Because sovereignty contains in ideal all special privileges, the common misconception is quite
natural, which takes it to be mere force, empty caprice, and synonymous with despotism. But
despotism means a state of lawlessness, in which the particular will as such, whether that
of monarch or people (ochlocracy), is the law, or rather instead of the law. Sovereignty, on
the contrary, constitutes the element of ideality of particular spheres and functions under
lawful and constitutional conditions.

The sovereignty of the people, conceived in opposition to the sovereignty residing in the monarch,
stands for the common view of democracy, which has come to prevail in modern times. The idea
of the sovereignty of the people, taken in this opposition, belongs to a confused idea of what
is commonly and crudely understood by "the people." The people without its monarch and without
that whole organization necessarily and directly connected with him is a formless mass, which
is no longer a State. In a people, not conceived in a lawless and unorganized condition, but
as a self-developed and truly organic totality--in such a people sovereignty is the personality
of the whole, and this is represented in reality by the person of the monarch.

The State must be regarded as a great architectonic edifice, a hieroglyph of reason, manifesting
itself in reality. Everything referring merely to utility, externality, and the like, must
be excluded from its philosophic treatment. That the State is the self-determining and the
completely sovereign will, the final decision being necessarily referred to it--that is easy
to comprehend. The difficulty lies in grasping this "I will" as a person. By this it is not
meant that the monarch can act arbitrarily. He is bound, in truth, by the concrete content
of the deliberations of his council, and, when the constitution is stable, he has often nothing
more to do than to sign his name--but this name is important; it is the point than which there
is nothing higher.

It may be said that an organic State has already existed in the beautiful democracy of Athens.
The Greeks, however, derived the final decision from entirely external phenomena, from oracles,
entrails of sacrificial animals, and from the flight of birds. Nature they considered as a
power which in this wise made known and gave expression to what was good for the people. Self-consciousness
had at that time not yet attained to the abstraction of subjectivity; it had not yet come to
the realization that an "I will" must be pronounced by man himself concerning the decisions
of the State. This "I will" constitutes the great difference between the ancient and the modern
world, and must therefore have its peculiar place in the great edifice of the State. Unfortunately
this modern characteristic is regarded as merely external and arbitrary.

It is often maintained against the monarch that, since he may be ill-educated or unworthy to
stand at the helm of the State, its fortunes are thus made to depend upon chance. It is therefore
absurd to assume the rationality of the institution of the monarch. The presupposition, however,
that the fortunes of the State depend upon the particular character of the monarch is false.
In the perfect organization of the State the important thing is only the finality of formal
decision and the stability against passion. One must not therefore demand objective qualification
of the monarch; he has but to say "yes" and to put the dot upon the "i." The crown shall be
of such a nature that the particular character of its bearer is of no significance. Beyond
his function of administering the final decision, the monarch is a particular being who is
of no concern. Situations may indeed arise in which his particularity alone asserts itself,
but in that case the State is not yet fully developed, or else is ill constructed. In a well-ordered
monarchy the law alone has objective power to which the monarch has but to affix the subjective
"I will."

Monarchs do not excel in bodily strength or intellect, and yet millions permit themselves to
be ruled by them. To say that the people permit themselves to be governed contrary to their
interests, aims, and intentions is preposterous, for people are not so stupid. It is their
need, it is the inner power of the idea, which, in opposition to their apparent consciousness,
urges them to this situation and retains them therein.

Out of the sovereignty of the monarch flows the prerogative of pardoning criminals. Only to
the sovereignty belongs the spiritual power to undo what has been done and to cancel the crime
by forgiving and forgetting.

Pardon is the remission of punishment, but does not abolish right. Right remains, and the pardoned
is a criminal as he was before the pardon. The act of mercy does not mean that no crime has
been committed. This remission of punishment may be effected in religion, for by and in spirit
what has been done can be made un-done. But in so far as remission occurs in the world, it
has its place only in majesty and is due only to its arbitrary decision.

THE EXECUTIVE

The main point upon which the function of the government depends is the division of labor.
This division is concerned with the transition from the universal to the particular and the
individual; and the business is to be divided according to the different branches. The difficulty
lies in harmonizing the superior and the inferior functions. For some time past the main effort
has been spent in organizing from above, the lower and bulky part of the whole being left more
or less unorganized; yet it is highly important that it should become organic, for only thus
is it a power and a force; otherwise it is but a heap or mass of scattered atoms. Authoritative
power resides only in the organic state of the particular spheres.

The State cannot count on service which is capricious and voluntary (the administration of
justice by knights-errant, for instance), precisely because it is capricious and voluntary.
Such service presupposes acting according to subjective opinion, and also the possibility of
neglect and of the realization of private ends. The opposite extreme to the knight-errant in
reference to public service would be the State-servant who was attached to his task solely
by want, without genuine duty and right.

The efficiency of the State depends upon individuals, who, however, are not entitled to carry
on the business of the State through natural fitness, but according to their objective qualification.
Ability, skill, character, belong to the particular nature of the individual; for a particular
office, however, he must be specially educated and trained. An office in the State can, therefore,
be neither sold nor bequeathed.

Public service demands the sacrifice of independent self-satisfaction and the giving up of
the pursuit of private ends, but grants the right of finding these in dutiful service, and
in it only. Herein lies the unity of the universal and the particular interests which constitutes
the concept and the inner stability of the State.

The members of the executive and the officials of the State form the main part of the middle
class which represents the educated intelligence and the consciousness of right of the mass
of a people. This middle class is prevented by the institutions of sovereignty from above and
the rights of corporation from below, from assuming the exclusive position of an aristocracy
and making education and intelligence the means for caprice and despotism. Thus the administration
of justice, whose object is the proper interest of all individuals, had at one time been perverted
into an instrument of gain and despotism, owing to the fact that the knowledge of the law was
hidden under a learned and foreign language, and the knowledge of legal procedure under an
involved formalism.

In the middle class, to which the State officials belong, resides the consciousness of the
State and the most conspicuous cultivation: the middle class constitutes therefore the ground
pillar of the State in regard to uprightness and intelligence. The State in which there is
no middle class stands as yet on no high level.

THE LEGISLATURE

The legislature is concerned with the interpretation of the laws and with the internal affairs
of the State, in so far as they have a universal content. This function is itself a part of
the constitution and thus presupposes it. Being presupposed, the constitution lies, to that
degree, outside the direct province of the legislature, but in the forward development of the
laws and the progressive character of the universal affairs of government, the constitution
receives its development also.

The constitution must alone be the firm ground on which the legislature stands; hence it must
not be created for purposes of legislation. But the constitution not only is, its essence is
also to become--that is, it progresses with the advance of civilization. This progress is an
alteration which is imperceptible, but has not the form of an alteration. Thus, for example,
the emperor was formerly judge, and went about the empire administering justice. Through the
merely apparent advance of civilization it has become practically necessary that the emperor
should gradually yield his judicial function to others, and thus came about the transition
of the judicial function from the person of the prince to a body of judges; thus the progress
of any condition is an apparently calm and imperceptible one. In this way and after a lapse
of time a constitution attains a character quite different from what it had before.

In the legislative power as a whole are operative both the monarchical element and the executive.
To the former belongs the final decision; the latter as advisory element possesses concrete
knowledge, perspective over the whole in all its ramifications, and acquaintance with the objective
principles and wants of the power of the State. Finally, in the legislature the different classes
or estates are also active. These classes or estates represent in the legislature the element
of subjective formal freedom, the public consciousness, the empirical totality of the views
and thought of the many.

The expression "The Many" [Greek: oi polloi] characterizes the empirical totality more correctly
than the customary word "All." Though one may reply that, under this "all," children, women,
etc., are obviously meant to be excluded, yet it is more obvious that the definite expression
"all" should not be used when something quite indefinite is in question.

There are, in general, current among the public so unspeakably many distorted and false notions
and phrases about the people, the constitution, and the classes, that it would be a vain task
to mention, explain, and correct them. The prevalent idea concerning the necessity and utility
of an assembly of estates amounts to the assumption that the people's deputies, nay, the people
itself, best understand what would promote the common weal, and that they have indubitably
the good will to promote it. As for the first point, the case is just the reverse. The people,
in so far as this term signifies a special part of the citizens, stands precisely for the part
that does not know what it wills. To know what one wills, and, what is more difficult, to know
what the absolute will, viz., reason, wills, is the fruit of deep knowledge and insight; and
that is obviously not a possession of the people. As for the especially good will, which the
classes are supposed to have for the common good, the usual point of view of the masses is
the negative one of suspecting the government of a will which is evil or of little good.

The attitude of the government toward the classes must not be essentially a hostile one. Belief
in the necessity of this hostile relation is a sad mistake. The government is not one party
in opposition to another, so that both are engaged in wresting something from each other. When
the State is in such a situation it is a misfortune and not a mark of health. Furthermore,
the taxes, for which the classes vote, are not to be looked upon as gifts, but are consented
to for the best interests of those consenting. What constitutes the true meaning of the classes
is this--that through them the State enters into the subjective consciousness of the people
and thus the people begin to share in the State.

In despotic countries, where there are only princes and people, the people assert themselves,
whenever they act, as a destructive force directed against the organization, but the masses,
when they become organically related to the State, obtain their interests in a lawful and orderly
way. When this organic relation is lacking, the self-expression of the masses is always violent;
in despotic States the despot shows, therefore, indulgence for his people, and his rage is
always felt by those surrounding him. Moreover, the people of a despotic State pay light taxes,
which in a constitutional State are increased through the very consciousness of the people.
In no other country are taxes so heavy as they are in England.

There exists a current notion to the effect that, since the private class is raised in the
legislature to a participation in the universal cause, it must appear in the form of individuals--either
that representatives are chosen for the function, or that every individual exercises a vote.
This abstract atomic view prevails neither in the family nor in civic society, in both of which
the individual appears only as a member of a universal. The State, however, is in essence an
organization of members, and these members are themselves spheres; in it no element shall show
itself as an unorganized mass. The many, as individuals, whom one chooses to call the people,
are indeed a collection, but only as a multitude, a formless mass, whose movement and action
would be elemental, irrational, savage, and terrible.

The concrete State is the whole, organized into its particular spheres, and the member of the
State is a member of such a particular class. Only in this objective determination can the
individual find recognition in the State. Only in his coöperate capacity, as member of the
community and the like, can the individual first find a real and vital place in the universal.
It remains, of course, open to him to rise through his skill to any class for which he can
qualify himself, including even the universal class.

It is a matter of great advantage to have among the delegates representatives of every special
branch of society, such as trade, manufacture, etc.--individuals thoroughly familiar with their
branch and belonging to it. In the notion of a loose and indefinite election this important
matter is left to accident; every branch, however, has the same right to be represented as
every other. To view the delegates as representatives has, then, an organic and rational meaning
only if they are not representatives of mere individuals, of the mere multitude, but of one
of the essential spheres of society and of its large interests. Representation thus no longer
means substitution of one person by another, but it means, rather, that the interest itself
is actually present in the representative.

Of the elections by many separate individuals it may be observed that there is necessarily
an indifference, especially in large States, about using one's vote, since one vote is of such
slight importance; and those who have the right to vote will not do so, no matter how much
one may extol the privilege of voting. Hence this institution turns into the opposite of what
it stands for. The election becomes the business of a few, of a single party, of a special
interest, which should, in fact, be neutralized.

Through the publicity of the assembly of classes public opinion first acquires true thoughts
and an insight into the condition and the notion of the State and its affairs, and thus develops
the capacity of judging more rationally concerning them; it learns, furthermore, to know and
respect the routine, talents, virtues, and skill of the authorities and officers of the State.
While publicity stimulates these talents in their further development and incites their honorable
display, it is also an antidote for the pride of individuals and of the multitude, and is one
of the greatest opportunities for their education.

It is a widespread popular notion that everybody already knows what is good for the State,
and that it is this common knowledge which finds expression in the assembly. Here, in the assembly,
are developed virtues, talents, skill, which have to serve as examples. To be sure, the ministers
may find these assemblies onerous, for ministers must possess large resources of wit and eloquence
to resist the attacks which are hurled against them. Nevertheless, publicity is one of the
best means of instruction in the interests of the State generally, for where publicity is found
the people manifest an entirely different regard for the State than in those places where there
are no assemblies or where they are not public. Only through the publication of every one of
their proceedings are the chambers related to the larger public opinion; and it is shown that
what one imagines at home with his wife and friends is one thing, and what happens in a great
assembly, where one feat of eloquence wrecks another, is quite a different thing.

PUBLIC OPINION

Public opinion is the unorganized way in which what a people wants and thinks is promulgated.
That which is actually effective in the State must be so in an organic fashion. In the constitution
this is the case. But at all times public opinion has been a great power, and it is particularly
so in our time, when the principle of subjective freedom has such importance and significance.
What shall now prevail, prevails no longer through force, little through use and custom, but
rather through insight and reasons.

Public opinion contains, therefore, the eternal substantial principles of justice, the true
content, and the result of the whole constitution, legislation, and the universal condition
in general. The form underlying public opinion is sound common sense, which is a fundamental
ethical principle winding its way through everything, in spite of prepossessions. But when
this inner character is formulated in the shape of general propositions, partly for their own
sake, partly for the purpose of actual reasoning about events, institutions, relations, and
the recognized wants of the State, there appears also the whole character of accidental opinion,
with its ignorance and perversity, its false knowledge and incorrect judgment.

It is therefore not to be regarded as merely a difference in subjective opinion when it is
asserted on the one hand--

"Vox populi, vox dei";

and on the other (in Ariosto, for instance)--[2]

  "Che'l Volgare ignorante ogn' un riprenda
    E parli piü di quel che meno intenda."

Both sides co-exist in public opinion. Since truth and endless error are so directly united
in it, neither one nor the other side is truly in earnest. Which one is in earnest, is difficult
to decide--difficult, indeed, if one confines oneself to the direct expression of public opinion.
But as the substantial principle is the inner character of public opinion, this alone is its
truly earnest aspect; yet this insight cannot be obtained from public opinion itself, for a
substantial principle can only be apprehended apart from public opinion and by a consideration
of its own nature. No matter with what passion an opinion is invested, no matter with what
earnestness a view is asserted, attacked, and defended, this is no criterion of its real essence.
And least of all could public opinion be made to see that its seriousness is nothing serious
at all.

A great mind has publicly raised the question whether it is permissible to deceive a people.
The answer is that a people will not permit itself to be deceived concerning its substantial
basis, the essence, and the definite character of its spirit, but it deceives itself about
the way in which it knows this, and according to which it judges of its acts, events, etc.

Public opinion deserves, therefore, to be esteemed as much as to be despised; to be despised
for its concrete consciousness and expression, to be esteemed for its essential fundamental
principle, which only shines, more or less dimly, through its concrete expression. Since public
opinion possesses within itself no standard of discrimination, no capacity to rise to a recognition
of the substantial, independence of it is the first formal condition of any great and rational
enterprise (in actuality as well as in science). Anything great and rational is eventually
sure to please public opinion, to be espoused by it, and to be made one of its prepossessions.

In public opinion all is false and true, but to discover the truth in it is the business of
the great man. The great man of his time is he who expresses the will and the meaning of that
time, and then brings it to completion; he acts according to the inner spirit and essence of
his time, which he realizes. And he who does not understand how to despise public opinion,
as it makes itself heard here and there, will never accomplish anything great.

FREEDOM OF THE PRESS

The freedom of public utterance (of which the press is one means, having advantage over speech
in its more extended reach, though inferior to it in vivacity), the gratification of that prickling
impulse to express and to have expressed one's opinion, is directly controlled by the police
and State laws and regulations, which partly hinder and partly punish its excesses. The indirect
guarantee lies in its innocuousness, and this again is mainly based on the rationality of the
constitution, the stability of the government, and also on the publicity given to the assemblies
of the classes. Another security is offered by the indifference and contempt with which insipid
and malicious words are, as a rule, quickly met.

The definition of the freedom of the press as freedom to say and write what one pleases, is
parallel to the one of freedom in general, viz., as freedom to do what one pleases. Such views
belong to the uneducated crudity and superficiality of naïve thinking. The press, with its
infinite variety of content and expression, represents what is most transient, particular,
and accidental in human opinion. Beyond the direct incitation to theft, murder, revolt, etc.,
lies the art of cultivating the expression which in itself seems general and indefinite enough,
but which, in a measure, conceals a perfectly definite meaning. Such expressions are partly
responsible for consequences of which, since they are not actually expressed, one is never
sure how far they are contained in the utterances and really follow from them. It is this indefiniteness
of the content and form of the press which prevents the laws governing it from assuming that
precision which one demands of laws. Thus the extreme subjectivity of the wrong, injury, and
crime committed by the press, causes the decision and sentence to be equally subjective. The
laws are not only indefinite, but the press can, by the skill and subtlety of its expressions,
evade them, or criticise the judgment of the court as wholly arbitrary. Furthermore, if the
utterance of the press is treated as an offensive deed, one may retort that it is not a deed
at all, but only an opinion, a thought, a mere saying. Consequently, impunity is expected for
opinions and words, because they are merely subjective, trivial, and insignificant, and, in
the same breath, great respect and esteem is demanded for these opinions and words--for the
opinions, because they are mine and my mental property, and for the words, because they are
the free expression and use of that property. And yet the basic principle remains that injury
to the honor of individuals generally, abuse, libel, contemptuous caricaturing of the government,
its officers and officials, especially the person of the prince, defiance of the laws, incitement
to revolt, etc., are all offenses and crimes of different grades.

However, the peculiar and dangerous effect of these acts for the individuals, the community,
and the State depends upon the nature of the soil on which they are committed, just as a spark,
if thrown upon a heap of gunpowder, has a much more dangerous result than if thrown on the
mere ground, where it vanishes and leaves no trace. But, on the whole, a good many such acts,
though punishable by law, may come under a certain kind of nemesis which internal impotence
is forced to bring about. In entering upon opposition to the superior talents and virtues,
by which impotence feels oppressed, it comes to a realization of its inferiority and to a consciousness
of its own nothingness, and the nemesis, even when bad and odious, is, by treating it with
contempt, rendered ineffectual. Like the public, which forms a circle for such activity, it
is confined to a harmless malicious joy, and to a condemnation which reflects upon itself.

MEANING OF WAR

There is an ethical element in war. It must not be regarded as an absolute ill, or as merely
an external calamity which is accidentally based upon the passions of despotic individuals
or nations, upon acts of injustice, and, in general, upon what ought not to be. The recognition
of the finite, such as property and life, as accidental, is necessary. This necessity is at
first wont to appear under the form of a force of nature, for all things finite are mortal
and transient. In the ethical order, in the State, however, nature is robbed of its force,
and the necessity is exalted to a work of freedom, to an ethical law. The transient and negative
nature of all things is transformed in the State into an expression of the ethical will. War,
often painted by edifying speech as a state in which the vanity of temporal things is demonstrated,
now becomes an element whereby the ideal character of the particular receives its right and
reality. War has the deep meaning that by it the ethical health of the nations is preserved
and their finite aims uprooted. And as the winds which sweep over the ocean prevent the decay
that would result from its perpetual calm, so war protects the people from the corruption which
an everlasting peace would bring upon it. History shows phases which illustrate how successful
wars have checked internal unrest and have strengthened the entire stability of the State.

In peace, civic life becomes more extended, every sphere is hedged in and grows immobile, and
at last all men stagnate, their particular nature becoming more and more hardened and ossified.
Only in the unity of a body is health, and, where the organs become stiff, there is death.
Eternal peace is often demanded as an ideal toward which mankind should move. Thus Kant proposed
an alliance of princes, which should settle the controversies of States, and the Holy Alliance
probably aspired to be an institution of this kind. The State, however, is individual, and
in individuality negation is essentially contained. A number of States may constitute themselves
into a family, but this confederation, as an individuality, must create an opposition and so
beget an enemy. Not only do nations issue forth invigorated from their wars, but those nations
torn by internal strife win peace at home as a result of war abroad. War indeed causes insecurity
in property, but this real insecurity is only a necessary commotion. From the pulpits much
is preached concerning the insecurity, vanity, and instability of temporal things, and yet
every one, though he may be touched by his own words, thinks that he, at least, will manage
to hold on to his possessions. Let the insecurity finally come, in the form of Hussars with
glistening sabres, and show its earnest activity, and that touching edification which foresaw
all this now turns upon the enemy with curses. In spite of this, wars will break out whenever
necessity demands them; but the seeds spring up anew, and speech is silenced before the grave
repetitions of history.

The military class is the class of universality. The defense of the State is its privilege,
and its duty is to realize the ideality contained in it, which consists in self-sacrifice.
There are different kinds of bravery. The courage of the animal, or the robber, the bravery
which arises from a sense of honor, the chivalrous bravery, are not yet the true forms of it.
In civilized nations true bravery consists in the readiness to give oneself wholly to the service
of the State, so that the individual counts but as one among many. Not personal valor, but
the important aspect of it, lies in self-subordination to the universal cause.

To risk one's life is indeed something more than mere fear of death, but this is only negative;
only a positive character--an aim and content--gives meaning to bravery. Robbers and murderers
in the pursuit of crime, adventurers in the search of their fanciful objects, etc., also possess
courage, and do not fear death. The principle of the modern world--the power of thought and
of the universal--has given to bravery a higher form; the higher form causes the expression
of bravery to appear more mechanical. The brave deeds are not the deeds of any particular person,
but those of the members of a whole. And, again, since hostility is directed, not against separate
individuals, but against a hostile whole, personal valor appears as impersonal. This principle
it is which has caused the invention of the gun; it is not a chance invention that has brought
about the change of the mere personal form of bravery into the more abstract.

INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS

Just as the individual is not a real person unless related to other persons, so the State is
no real individuality unless related to other States. The legitimate power of a State, and
more especially its princely power, is, from the point of view of its foreign relations, a
wholly internal affair. A State shall, therefore, not interfere with the internal affairs of
another State. On the other hand, for a complete State, it is essential that it be recognized
by others; but this recognition demands as a guarantee that it shall recognize those States
which recognize it, and shall respect their independence. Hence its internal affairs cannot
be a matter of indifference to them.

When Napoleon, before the peace of Campoformio, said, "The French Republic requires recognition
as little as the sun needs to be recognized," his words suggest nothing but the strength of
existence, which already carries with it the guarantee of recognition, without needing to be
expressed.

When the particular wills of the State can come to no agreement their controversy can be decided
only by war. What offense shall be regarded as a breach of a treaty, or as a violation of respect
and honor, must remain indefinite, since many and various injuries can easily accrue from the
wide range of the interests of the States and from the complex relations of their citizens.
The State may identify its infinitude and honor with every one of its single aspects. And if
a State, as a strong individuality, has experienced an unduly protracted internal rest, it
will naturally be more inclined to irritability, in order to find an occasion and field for
intense activity.

The nations of Europe form a family according to the universal principle of their legislation,
their ethical code, and their civilization. But the relation among States fluctuates, and no
judge exists to adjust their differences. The higher judge is the universal and absolute Spirit
alone--the World-Spirit.

The relation of one particular State to another presents, on the largest possible scale, the
most shifting play of individual passions, interests, aims, talents, virtues, power, injustice,
vice, and mere external chance. It is a play in which even the ethical whole, the independence
of the State, is exposed to accident. The principles which control the many national spirits
are limited. Each nation as an existing individuality is guided by its particular principles,
and only as a particular individuality can each national spirit win objectivity and self-consciousness;
but the fortunes and deeds of States in their relation to one another reveal the dialectic
of the finite nature of these spirits. Out of this dialectic rises the universal Spirit, the
unlimited World-Spirit, pronouncing its judgment--and its judgment is the highest--upon the
finite nations of the world's history; for the history of the world is the world's court of
justice. By this expression we wish to exclude the beauty of nature. In common life we are
in the habit of speaking of beautiful color, a beautiful sky, a beautiful river, beautiful
flowers, beautiful animals, and beautiful human beings. But quite aside from the question,
which we wish not to discuss here, how far beauty may be predicated of such objects, or how
far natural beauty may be placed side by side with artistic beauty, we must begin by maintaining
that artistic beauty is higher than the beauty of nature. For the beauty of art is beauty born--and
born again--of the spirit. And as spirit and its products stand higher than nature and its
phenomena, by so much the beauty that resides in art is superior to the beauty of nature.

To say that spirit and artistic beauty stand higher than natural beauty, is to say very little,
for "higher" is a very indefinite expression, which states the difference between them as quantitative
and external. The "higher" quality of spirit and of artistic beauty does not at all stand in
a merely relative position to nature. Spirit only is the true essence and content of the world,
so that whatever is beautiful is truly beautiful only when it partakes of this higher essence
and is produced by it. In this sense natural beauty appears only as a reflection of the beauty
that belongs to spirit; it is an imperfect and incomplete expression of the spiritual substance.

Confining ourselves to artistic beauty, we must first consider certain difficulties. The first
that suggests itself is the question whether art is at all worthy of a philosophic treatment.
To be sure, art and beauty pervade, like a kindly genius, all the affairs of life, and joyously
adorn all its inner and outer phases, softening the gravity and the burden of actual existence,
furnishing pleasure for idle moments, and, where it can accomplish nothing positive, driving
evil away by occupying its place. Yet, although art wins its way everywhere with its pleasing
forms, from the crude adornment of the savages to the splendor of the temple with its marvelous
wealth of decoration, art itself appears to fall outside the real aims of life. And though
the creations of art cannot be said to be directly disadvantageous to the serious purposes
of life, nay, on occasion actually further them by holding evil at bay, on the whole, art belongs
to the relaxation and leisure of the mind, while the substantial interests of life demand its
exertion. At any rate, such a view renders art a superfluity, though the tender and emotional
influence which is wrought upon the mind by occupation with art is not thought necessarily
detrimental, because effeminate.

There are others, again, who, though acknowledging art to be a luxury, have thought it necessary
to defend it by pointing to the practical necessities of the fine arts and to the relation
they bear to morality and piety. Very serious aims have been ascribed to art. Art has been
recommended as a mediator between reason and sensuousness, between inclination and duty, as
the reconcilor of all these elements constantly warring with one another. But it must be said
that, by making art serve two masters, it is not rendered thereby more worthy of a philosophic
treatment. Instead of being an end in itself, art is degraded into a means of appealing to
higher aims, on the one hand, and to frivolity and idleness on the other.

Art considered as means offers another difficulty which springs from its form. Granting that
art can be subordinated to serious aims and that the results which it thus produces will be
significant, still the means used by art is deception, for beauty is appearance, its form is
its life; and one must admit that a true and real purpose should not be achieved through deception.
Even if a good end is thus, now and then, attained by art its success is rather limited, and
even then deception cannot be recommended as a worthy means; for the means should be adequate
to the dignity of the end, and truth can be produced by truth alone and not by deception and
semblance.

It may thus appear as if art were not worthy of philosophic consideration because it is supposed
to be merely a pleasing pastime; even when it pursues more serious aims it does not correspond
with their nature. On the whole, it is conceived to serve both grave and light interests, achieving
its results by means of deception and semblance.

As for the worthiness of art to be philosophically considered, it is indeed true that art can
be used as a casual amusement, furnishing enjoyment and pleasure, decorating our surroundings,
lending grace to the external conditions of life, and giving prominence to other objects through
ornamentation. Art thus employed is indeed not an independent or free, but rather a subservient
art. That art might serve other purposes and still retain its pleasure-giving function, is
a relation which it has in common with thought. For science, too, in the hands of the servile
understanding is used for finite ends and accidental means, and is thus not self-sufficient,
but is determined by outer objects and circumstances. On the other hand, science can emancipate
itself from such service and can rise in free independence to the pursuit of truth, in which
the realization of its own aims is its proper function.

Art is not genuine art until it has thus liberated itself. It fulfils its highest task when
it has joined the same sphere with religion and philosophy and has become a certain mode of
bringing to consciousness and expression the divine meaning of things, the deepest interests
of mankind, and the most universal truths of the spirit. Into works of art the nations have
wrought their most profound ideas and aspirations. Fine Art often constitutes the key, and
with many nations it is the only key, to an understanding of their wisdom and religion. This
character art has in common with religion and philosophy. Art's peculiar feature, however,
consists in its ability to represent in sensuous form even the highest ideas, bringing them
thus nearer to the character of natural phenomena, to the senses, and to feeling. It is the
height of a supra-sensuous world into which thought reaches, but it always appears to immediate
consciousness and to present experience as an alien beyond. Through the power of philosophic
thinking we are able to soar above what is merely here, above sensuous and finite experience.
But spirit can heal the breach between the supra-sensuous and the sensuous brought on by its
own advance; it produces out of itself the world of fine art as the first reconciling medium
between what is merely external, sensuous, and transient, and the world of pure thought, between
nature with its finite reality and the infinite freedom of philosophic reason.

Concerning the unworthiness of art because of its character as appearance and deception, it
must be admitted that such criticism would not be without justice, if appearance could be said
to be equivalent to falsehood and thus to something that ought not to be. Appearance is essential
to reality; truth could not be, did it not shine through appearance. Therefore not appearance
in general can be objected to, but merely the particular kind of appearance through which art
seeks to portray truth. To charge the appearance in which art chooses to embody its ideas as
deception, receives meaning only by comparison with the external world of phenomena and its
immediate materiality, as well as with the inner world of sensations and feelings. To these
two worlds we are wont, in our empirical work-a-day life, to attribute the value of actuality,
reality, and truth, in contrast to art, which is supposed to be lacking such reality and truth.
But, in fact, it is just the whole sphere of the empirical inner and outer world that is not
the world of true reality; indeed it may be called a mere show and a cruel deception in a far
stricter sense than in the case of art. Only beyond the immediacy of sense and of external
objects is genuine reality to be found. Truly real is but the fundamental essence and the underlying
substance of nature and of spirit, and the universal element in nature and in spirit is precisely
what art accentuates and makes visible. This essence of reality appears also in the common
outer and inner world, but it appears in the form of a chaos of contingencies, distorted by
the immediateness of sense perception, and by the capriciousness of conditions, events, characters,
etc. Art frees the true meaning of appearances from the show and deception of this bad and
transient world, and invests it with a higher reality, born of the spirit. Thus, far removed
from being mere appearances, the products of art have a higher reality and a more genuine being
than the things of ordinary life.

THE CONTENT AND IDEAL OF ART

The content of art is spiritual, and its form is sensuous; both sides art has to reconcile
into a united whole. The first requirement is that the content, which art is to represent,
must be worthy of artistic representation; otherwise we obtain only a bad unity, since a content
not capable of artistic treatment is made to take on an artistic form, and a matter prosaic
in itself is forced into a form quite opposed to its inherent nature.

The second requirement demands of the content of art that it shall be no abstraction. By this
is not meant that it must be concrete, as the sensuous is alleged to be concrete in contrast
to everything spiritual and intellectual. For everything that is genuinely true, in the realm
of thought as well as in the domain of nature, is concrete, and has, in spite of universality,
nevertheless, a particular and subjective character. By saying, for example, that God is simply
One, the Supreme Being as such, we express thereby nothing but a lifeless abstraction of an
understanding devoid of reason. Such a God, as indeed he is not conceived in his concrete truth,
can furnish no content for art, least of all for plastic art. Thus the Jews and the Turks have
not been able to represent their God, who is still more abstract, in the positive manner in
which the Christians have represented theirs. For in Christianity God is conceived in his truth,
and therefore concrete, as a person, as a subject, and, more precisely still, as Spirit. What
he is as spirit appears to the religious consciousness as a Trinity of persons, which at the
same time is One. Here the essence of God is the reconciled unity of universality and particularity,
such unity alone being concrete. Hence, as a content in order to be true must be concrete in
this sense, art demands the same concreteness; because a mere abstract idea, or an abstract
universal, cannot manifest itself in a particular and sensuous unified form.

If a true and therefore concrete content is to have its adequate sensuous form and shape, this
sensuous form must--this being the third requirement--also be something individual, completely
concrete, and one. The nature of concreteness belonging to both the content and the representation
of art, is precisely the point in which both can coincide and correspond to each other. The
natural shape of the human body, for example, is a sensuous concrete object, which is perfectly
adequate to represent the spiritual in its concreteness; the view should therefore be abandoned
that an existing object from the external world is accidentally chosen by art to express a
spiritual idea. Art does not seize upon this or that form either because it simply finds it
or because it can find no other, but the concrete spiritual content itself carries with it
the element of external, real, yes, even sensuous, representation. And this is the reason why
a sensuous concrete object, which bears the impress of an essentially spiritual content, addresses
itself to the inner eye; the outward shape whereby the content is rendered visible and imaginable
aims at an existence only in our heart and mind. For this reason alone are content and artistic
shape harmoniously wrought. The mere sensuously concrete external nature as such has not this
purpose for its only origin. The gay and variegated plumage of the birds shines unseen, and
their song dies away unheard; the torch-thistle which blossoms only for a night withers without
having been admired in the wilds of southern forests; and these forests, groves of the most
beautiful and luxuriant vegetation, with the most odorous and fragrant perfumes, perish and
waste, no more enjoyed. The work of art is not so unconsciously self-immersed, but it is essentially
a question, an address to the responsive soul, an appeal to the heart and to the mind.

Although the sensuous form in which art clothes its content is not accidental, yet it is not
the highest form whereby the spiritually concrete may be grasped. A higher mode than representation
through a sensuous form, is thought. True and rational thinking, though in a relative sense
abstract, must not be one-sided, but concrete. How far a definite content can be adequately
treated by art and how far it needs, according to its nature, a higher and more spiritual form,
is a distinction which we see at once if, for example, the Greek gods are compared with God
as conceived in accordance with Christian notions. The Greek god is not abstract but individual,
closely related to the natural human form. The Christian God is also a concrete personality,
but he is pure spiritually, and can be known only as spirit and in spirit. His sphere of existence
is therefore essentially inner knowledge, and not the outer natural shape through which he
can be represented but imperfectly and not in the whole depth of his essence.

But the task of art is to represent a spiritual idea to direct contemplation in sensuous form,
and not in the form of thought or of pure spirituality. The value and dignity of such representation
lies in the correspondence and unity of the two sides, of the spiritual content and its sensuous
embodiment, so that the perfection and excellency of art must depend upon the grade of inner
harmony and union with which the spiritual idea and the sensuous form interpenetrate.

The requirement of the conformity of spiritual idea and sensuous form might at first be interpreted
as meaning that any idea whatever would suffice, so long as the concrete form represented this
idea and no other. Such a view, however, would confound the ideal of art with mere correctness,
which consists in the expression of any meaning in its appropriate form. The artistic ideal
is not to be thus understood. For any content whatever is capable, according to the standard
of its own nature, of adequate representation, but yet it does not for that reason lay claim
to artistic beauty in the ideal sense. Judged by the standard of ideal beauty, even such correct
representation will be defective. In this connection we may remark that the defects of a work
of art are not to be considered simply as always due to the incapacity of the artist; defectiveness
of form has also its root in defectiveness of content. Thus, for instance, the Chinese, Indians,
Egyptians, in their artistic objects, their representations of the gods, and their idols, adhered
to formlessness, or to a vague and inarticulate form, and were not able to arrive at genuine
beauty, because their mythological ideas, the content and conception of their works of art,
were as yet vague and obscure. The more perfect in form works of art are, the more profound
is the inner truth of their content and thought. And it is not merely a question of the greater
or lesser skill with which the objects of external nature are studied and copied, for, in certain
stages of artistic consciousness and artistic activity, the misrepresentation and distortion
of natural objects are not unintentional technical inexpertness and incapacity, but conscious
alteration, which depends upon the content that is in consciousness, and is, in fact, demanded
by it. We may thus speak of imperfect art, which, in its own proper sphere, may be quite perfect
both technically and in other respects. When compared with the highest idea and ideal of art,
it is indeed defective. In the highest art alone are the idea and its representation in perfect
congruity, because the sensuous form of the idea is in itself the adequate form, and because
the content, which that form embodies, is itself a genuine content.

The higher truth of art consists, then, in the spiritual having attained a sensuous form adequate
to its essence. And this also furnishes the principle of division for the philosophy of art.
For the Spirit, before it wins the true meaning of its absolute essence, has to develop through
a series of stages which constitute its very life. To this universal evolution there corresponds
a development of the phases of art, under the form of which the Spirit--as artist--attains
to a comprehension of its own meaning.

This evolution within the spirit of art has two sides. The development is, in the first place,
a spiritual and universal one, in so far as a gradual series of definite conceptions of the
universe--of nature, man, and God--finds artistic representation. In the second place, this
universal development of art, embodying itself in sensuous form, determines definite modes
of artistic expression and a totality of necessary distinctions within the sphere of art. These
constitute the particular arts.

We have now to consider three definite relations of the spiritual idea to its sensuous expression.

SYMBOLIC ART

Art begins when the spiritual idea, being itself still indefinite and obscure and ill-comprehended,
is made the content of artistic forms. As indefinite, it does not yet have that individuality
which the artistic ideal demands; its abstractness and one-sidedness thus render its shape
defective and whimsical. The first form of art is therefore rather a mere search after plasticity
than a capacity of true representation. The spiritual idea has not yet found its adequate form,
but is still engaged in striving and struggling after it. This form we may, in general, call
the symbolic form of art; in such form the abstract idea assumes a shape in natural sensuous
matter which is foreign to it; with this foreign matter the artistic creation begins, from
which, however, it seems unable to free itself. The objects of external nature are reproduced
unchanged, but at the same time the meaning of the spiritual idea is attached to them. They
thus receive the vocation of expressing it, and must be interpreted as if the spiritual idea
were actually present in them. It is indeed true that natural objects possess an aspect which
makes them capable of representing a universal meaning, but in symbolic art a complete correspondence
is not yet possible. In it the correspondence is confined to an abstract quality, as when,
for example, a lion is meant to stand for strength.

This abstract relation brings also to consciousness the foreignness of the spiritual idea to
natural phenomena. And the spiritual idea, having no other reality to express its essence,
expatiates in all these natural shapes, seeks itself in their unrest and disproportion, but
finds them inadequate to it. It then exaggerates these natural phenomena and shapes them into
the huge and the boundless. The spiritual idea revels in them, as it were, seethes and ferments
in them, does violence to them, distorts and disfigures them into grotesque shapes, and endeavors
by the diversity, hugeness, and splendor of such forms to raise the natural phenomena to the
spiritual level. For here it is the spiritual idea which is more or less vague and non-plastic,
while the objects of nature have a thoroughly definite form.

The incongruity of the two elements to each other makes the relation of the spiritual idea
to objective reality a negative one. The spiritual as a wholly inner element and as the universal
substance of all things, is conceived unsatisfied with all externality, and in its sublimity
it triumphs over the abundance of unsuitable forms. In this conception of sublimity the natural
objects and the human shapes are accepted and left unaltered, but at the same time recognized
as inadequate to their own inner meaning; it is this inner meaning which is glorified far and
above every worldly content.

These elements constitute, in general, the character of the primitive artistic pantheism of
the Orient, which either invests even the lowest objects with absolute significance, or forces
all phenomena with violence to assume the expression of its world-view. This art becomes therefore
bizarre, grotesque, and without taste, or it represents the infinite substance in its abstract
freedom turning away with disdain from the illusory and perishing mass of appearances. Thus
the meaning can never be completely molded into the expression, and, notwithstanding all the
aspiration and effort, the incongruity between the spiritual idea and the sensuous form remains
insuperable. This is, then, the first form of art-symbolic art with its endless quest, its
inner struggle, its sphinx-like mystery, and its sublimity.

CLASSICAL ART

In the second form of art, which we wish to designate as the classical, the double defect of
symbolic art is removed. The symbolic form is imperfect, because the spiritual meaning which
it seeks to convey enters into consciousness in but an abstract and vague manner, and thus
the congruity between meaning and form must always remain defective and therefore abstract.
This double aspect disappears in the classical type of art; in it we find the free and adequate
embodiment of the spiritual idea in the form most suitable to it, and with it meaning and expression
are in perfect accord. It is classical art, therefore, which first affords the creation and
contemplation of the completed ideal, realizing it as a real fact in the world.

But the congruity of idea and reality in classical art must not be taken in a formal sense
of the agreement of a content with its external form; otherwise every photograph of nature,
every picture of a countenance, landscape, flower, scene, etc., which constitutes the aim of
a representation, would, through the conformity of content and form, be at once classical.
The peculiarity of classical art, on the contrary, consists in its content being itself a concrete
idea, and, as such, a concrete spiritual idea, for only the spiritual is a truly essential
content. For a worthy object of such a content, Nature must be consulted as to whether she
contains anything to which a spiritual attribute really belongs. It must be the World-Spirit
itself that invented the proper form for the concrete spiritual ideal--the subjective mind--in
this case the spirit of art--has only found it, and given it natural plastic existence in accordance
with free individual spirituality. The form in which the idea, as spiritual and individual,
clothes itself when revealed as a temporal phenomenon, is the human form. To be sure, personification
and anthropomorphism have frequently been decried as a degradation of the spiritual; but art,
in so far as its task is to bring before direct contemplation the spiritual in sensuous form,
must advance to such anthropomorphism, for only in its body can mind appear in an adequately
sensuous fashion. The migration of souls is, in this respect, an abstract notion, and physiology
should make it one of its fundamental principles that life has necessarily, in its evolution,
to advance to the human shape as the only sensuous phenomenon appropriate to the mind.

The human body as portrayed by classical art is not represented in its mere physical existence,
but solely as the natural and sensuous form and garb of mind; it is therefore divested of all
the defects that belong to the merely sensuous and of all the finite contingencies that appertain
to the phenomenal. But if the form must be thus purified in order to express the appropriate
content, and, furthermore, if the conformity of meaning and expression is to be complete, the
content which is the spiritual idea must be perfectly capable of being expressed through the
bodily form of man, without projecting into another sphere beyond the physical and sensuous
representation. The result is that Spirit is characterized as a particular form of mind, namely,
as human mind, and not as simply absolute and eternal; but the absolute and eternal Spirit
must be able to reveal and express itself in a manner far more spiritual.

This latter point brings to light the defect of classical art, which demands its dissolution
and its transition to a third and higher form, to wit, the romantic form of art.

ROMANTIC ART

The romantic form of art destroys the unity of the spiritual idea and its sensuous form, and
goes back, though on a higher level, to the difference and opposition of the two, which symbolic
art left unreconciled. The classical form of art attained, indeed, the highest degree of perfection
which the sensuous process of art was capable of realizing; and, if it shows any defects, the
defects are those of art itself, due to the limitation of its sphere. This limitation has its
root in the general attempt of art to represent in sensuous concrete form the infinite and
universal Spirit, and in the attempt of the classical type of art to blend so completely spiritual
and sensuous existence that the two appear in mutual conformity. But in such a fusion of the
spiritual and sensuous aspects Spirit cannot be portrayed according to its true essence, for
the true essence of Spirit is its infinite subjectivity; and its absolute internal meaning
does not lend itself to a full and free expression in the confinement of the bodily form as
its only appropriate existence.

Now, romantic art dissolves the inseparable unity which is the ideal of the classical type,
because it has won a content which goes beyond the classical form of art and its mode of expression.
This content--if familiar ideas may be recalled--coincides with what Christianity declares
to be true of God as Spirit, in distinction to the Greek belief in gods which constitutes the
essential and appropriate subject for classical art. The concrete content of Hellenic art implies
the unity of the human and divine nature, a unity which, just because it is merely implied
and immediate, permits of a representation in an immediately visible and sensuous mold. The
Greek god is the object of naïve contemplation and sensuous imagination; his shape is, therefore,
the bodily shape of man; the circle of his power and his essence is individual and confined.
To man the Greek god appears as a being and a power with whom he may feel a kinship and unity,
but this kinship and unity, are not reflected upon or raised into definite knowledge. The higher
stage is the knowledge of this unconscious unity, which underlies the classical form of art
and which it has rendered capable of complete plastic embodiment. The elevation of what is
unconscious and implied into self-conscious knowledge brings about an enormous difference;
it is the infinite difference which, for example, separates man from the animal. Man is an
animal, but, even in his animal functions, does not rest satisfied with the potential and the
unconscious as the animal does, but becomes conscious of them, reflects upon them, and raises
them--as, for instance, the process of digestion--into self-conscious science. And it is thus
that man breaks through the boundary of his merely immediate and unconscious existence, so
that, just because he knows himself to be animal, he ceases in virtue of such knowledge to
be animal, and, through such self-knowledge only, can characterize himself as mind or spirit.

If in the manner just described the unity of the human and divine nature is raised from an
immediate to a conscious, unity, the true mold for the reality of this content is no longer
the sensuous, immediate existence of the spiritual, the bodily frame of man, but self-consciousness
and internal contemplation. For this reason Christianity, in depicting God as Spirit--not as
particularized individual mind, but as absolute and universal Spirit--retires from the sensuousness
of imagination into the sphere of inner being, and makes this, and not the bodily form, the
material and mold of its content; and thus the unity of the human and divine nature is a conscious
unity, capable of realization only by spiritual knowledge. The new content, won by this unity,
is not dependent upon sensuous representation; it is now exempt from such immediate existence.
In this way, however, romantic art becomes art which transcends itself, carrying on this process
of self-transcendence within its own artistic sphere and artistic form.

Briefly stated, the essence of romantic art consists in the artistic object being the free,
concrete, spiritual idea itself, which is revealed in its spirituality to the inner, and not
the outer, eye. In conformity with such a content, art can, in a sense, not work for sensuous
perception, but must aim at the inner mood, which completely fuses with its object, at the
most subjective inner shrine, at the heart, the feeling, which, as spiritual feeling, longs
for freedom within itself and seeks and finds reconciliation only within the inner recesses
of the spirit. This inner world is the content of romantic art, and as such an inner life,
or as its reflection, it must seek embodiment. The inner life thus triumphs over the outer
world--indeed, so triumphs over it that the outer world itself is made to proclaim its victory,
through which the sensuous appearance sinks into worthlessness.

On the other hand, the romantic type of art, like every other, needs an external mode of expression.
But the spiritual has now retired from the outer mode into itself, and the sensuous externality
of form assumes again, as it did in symbolic art, an insignificant and transient character.
The subjective, finite mind and will, the peculiarity and caprice of the individual, of character,
action, or of incident and plot, assume likewise the character they had in symbolic art. The
external side of things is surrendered to accident and committed to the excesses of the imagination,
whose caprice now mirrors existence as it is, now chooses to distort the objects of the outer
world into a bizarre and grotesque medley, for the external form no longer possesses a meaning
and significance, as in classical art, on its own account and for it own sake. Feeling is now
everything. It finds its artistic reflection, not in the world of external things and their
forms, but in its own expression; and in every incident and accident of life, in every misfortune,
grief, and even crime, feeling preserves or regains its healing power of reconciliation.

Hence, the indifference, incongruity, and antagonism of spiritual idea and sensuous form, the
characteristics of symbolic art, reappear in the romantic type, but with this essential difference.
In the romantic realm, the spiritual idea, to whose defectiveness was due the defective forms
of symbolic art, now reveals itself in its perfection within mind and feeling. It is by virtue
of the higher perfection of the idea that it shuns any adequate union with an external form,
since it can seek and attain its true reality and expression best within itself.

This, in general terms, is the character of the symbolic, classical, and romantic forms of
art, which stand for the three relations of the spiritual idea to its expression in the realm
of art. They consist in the aspiration after, and the attainment and transcendence of, the
ideal as the true idea of beauty.

THE PARTICULAR ARTS

But, now, there inhere in the idea of beauty different modifications which art translates into
sensuous forms. And we find a fundamental principle by which the several particular arts may
be arranged and defined--that is, the species of art contain in themselves the same essential
differences which we have found in the three general types of art. External objectivity, moreover,
into which these types are molded by means of a sensuous and particular material, renders them
independent and separate means of realizing different artistic functions, as far as each type
finds its definite character in some one definite external material whose mode of portrayal
determines its adequate realization. Furthermore, the general types of art correspond to the
several particular arts, so that they (the particular arts) belong each of them specifically
to one of the general types of art. It is these particular arts which give adequate and artistic
external being to the general types.

ARCHITECTURE

The first of the particular arts with which, according to their fundamental principle, we have
to begin, is architecture. Its task consists in so shaping external inorganic nature that it
becomes homogeneous with mind, as an artistic outer world. The material of architecture is
matter itself in its immediate externality as a heavy mass subject to mechanical laws, and
its forms remain the forms of inorganic nature, but are merely arranged and ordered in accordance
with the abstract rules of the understanding, the rules of symmetry. But in such material and
in such forms the ideal as concrete spirituality cannot be realized; the reality which is represented
in them remains, therefore, alien to the spiritual idea, as something external which it has
not penetrated or with which it has but a remote and abstract relation. Hence the fundamental
type of architecture is the symbolical form of art. For it is architecture that paves the way,
as it were, for the adequate realization of the God, toiling and wrestling in his service with
external nature, and seeking to extricate it from the chaos of finitude and the abortiveness
of chance. By this means it levels a space for the God, frames his external surroundings, and
builds him his temple as the place for inner contemplation and for reflection upon the eternal
objects of the spirit. It raises an inclosure around those gathered together, as a defense
against the threatening of the wind, against rain, the thunder-storm, and wild beasts, and
reveals the will to gather together, though externally, yet in accordance with the artistic
form. A meaning such as this, the art of architecture is able to mold into its material and
its forms with more or less success, according as the determinate nature of the content which
it seeks to embody is more significant or more trivial, more concrete or more abstract, more
deeply rooted within its inner being or more dim and superficial. Indeed, it may even advance
so far as to endeavor to create for such meaning an adequate artistic expression with its material
and forms, but in such an attempt it has already overstepped the bounds of its own sphere,
and inclines towards sculpture, the higher phase of art. For the limit of architecture lies
precisely in this, that it refers to the spiritual as an internal essence in contrast with
the external forms of its art, and thus whatever spirit and soul are possessed it must point
to as something other than itself.

SCULPTURE

Architecture, however, has purified the inorganic external world, has given it symmetric order,
has impressed upon it the seal of mind, and the temple of the God, the house of his community,
stands ready. Into this temple now enters the God himself. The lightning-flash of individuality
strikes the inert mass, permeates it, and a form no longer merely symmetrical, but infinite
and spiritual, concentrates and molds its adequate bodily shape. This is the task of sculpture.
Inasmuch as in it the inner spiritual element, which architecture can no more than hint at,
completely abides with the sensuous form and its external matter, and as both sides are so
merged into each other that neither predominates, sculpture has the classical form of art as
its fundamental type. In fact, the sensuous realm itself can command no expression which could
not be that of the spiritual sphere, just as, conversely, no spiritual content can attain perfect
plasticity in sculpture which is incapable of being adequately presented to perception in bodily
form. It is sculpture which arrests for our vision the spirit in its bodily frame, in immediate
unity with it, and in an attitude of peace and repose; and the form in turn is animated by
the content of spiritual individuality. Therefore the external sensuous matter is here not
wrought, either according to its mechanical quality alone, as heavy mass, nor in forms peculiar
to inorganic nature, nor as indifferent to color, etc., but in ideal forms of the human shape,
and in the whole of the spatial dimensions. In this last respect sculpture should be credited
with having first revealed the inner and spiritual essence in its eternal repose and essential
self-possession. To such repose and unity with itself corresponds only that external element
which itself persists in unity and repose. Such an element is the form taken in its abstract
spatiality. The spirit which sculpture represents is that which is solid in itself, not variously
broken up in the play of contingencies and passions; nor does its external form admit of the
portrayal of such a manifold play, but it holds to this one side only, to the abstraction of
space in the totality of its dimensions.

THE DEVELOPMENT OF THE ROMANTIC ARTS

After architecture has built the temple and the hand of sculpture has placed inside it the
statue of the God, then this sensuously visible God faces in the spacious halls of his house
the community. The community is the spiritual, self-reflecting element in this sensuous realm,
it is the animating subjectivity and inner life. A new principle of art begins with it. Both
the content of art and the medium which embodies it in outward form now demand particularization,
individualization, and the subjective mode of expressing these. The solid unity which the God
possesses in sculpture breaks up into the plurality of inner individual lives, whose unity
is not sensuous, but essentially ideal.

And now God comes to assume the aspect which makes him truly spiritual. As a hither-and-thither,
as an alternation between the unity within himself and his realization in subjective knowledge
and individual consciousness, as well as in the common and unified life of the many individuals,
he is genuinely Spirit--the Spirit in his community. In his community God is released from
the abstractness of a mysterious self-identity, as well as from the naïve imprisonment in a
bodily shape, in which he is represented by sculpture. Here he is exalted into spirituality,
subjectivity, and knowledge. For this reason the higher content of art is now this spirituality
in its absolute form. But since what chiefly reveals itself in this stage is not the serene
repose of God in himself, but rather his appearance, his being, and his manifestation to others,
the objects of artistic representation are now the most varied subjective expressions of life
and activity for their own sake, as human passions, deeds, events, and, in general, the wide
range of human feeling, will, and resignation. In accordance with this content, the sensuous
element must differentiate and show itself adequate to the expression of subjective feeling.
Such different media are furnished by color, by the musical sound, and finally by the sound
as the mere indication of inner intuitions and ideas; and thus as different forms of realizing
the spiritual content of art by means of these media we obtain painting, music, and poetry.
The sensuous media employed in these arts being individualized and in their essence recognized
as ideal, they correspond most effectively to the spiritual content of art, and the union between
spiritual meaning and sensuous expression develops, therefore, into greater intimacy than was
possible in the case of architecture and sculpture. This intimate unity, however, is due wholly
to the subjective side.

Leaving, then, the symbolic spirit of architecture and the classical ideal of sculpture behind,
these new arts in which form and content are raised to an ideal level borrow their type from
the romantic form of art, whose mode of expression they are most eminently fitted to voice.
They form, however, a totality of arts, because the romantic type is the most concrete in itself.

PAINTING

The first art in this totality, which is akin to sculpture, is painting. The material which
it uses for its content and for the sensuous expression of that content is visibility as such,
in so far as it is individualized, viz., specified as color. To be sure, the media employed
in architecture and sculpture are also visible and colored, but they are not, as in painting,
visibility as such, not the simple light which contrasts itself with darkness and in combination
with it becomes color. This visibility as a subjective and ideal attribute, requires neither,
like architecture, the abstract mechanical form of mass which we find in heavy matter, nor,
like sculpture, the three dimensions of sensuous space, even though in concentrated and organic
plasticity, but the visibility which appertains to painting has its differences on a more ideal
level, in the particular kinds of color; and thus painting frees art from the sensuous completeness
in space peculiar to material things only, by confining itself to a plane surface.

On the other hand, the content also gains in varied particularization. Whatever can find room
in the human heart, as emotion, idea, and purpose, whatever it is able to frame into a deed,
all this variety of material can constitute the many-colored content of painting. The whole
range of particular existence, from the highest aspirations of the mind down to the most isolated
objects of nature, can obtain a place in this art. For even finite nature, in its particular
scenes and aspects, can here appear, if only some allusion to a spiritual element makes it
akin to thought and feeling.

MUSIC

The second art in which the romantic form finds realization, on still a higher level than in
painting, is music. Its material, though still sensuous, advances to a deeper subjectivity
and greater specification. The idealization of the sensuous, music brings about by negating
space. In music the indifferent extension of space whose appearance painting admits and consciously
imitates is concentrated and idealized into a single point. But in the form of a motion and
tremor of the material body within itself, this single point becomes a concrete and active
process within the idealization of matter. Such an incipient ideality of matter which no longer
appears under the spatial form, but as temporal ideality, is sound the sensuous acknowledged
as ideal, whose abstract visibility is transformed into audibility. Sound, as it were, exempts
the ideal from its absorption in matter.

This earliest animation and inspiration of matter furnishes the medium for the inner and intimate
life of the spirit, as yet on an indefinite level; it is through the tones of music that the
heart pours out its whole scale of feelings and passions. Thus as sculpture constitutes the
central point between architecture and the arts of romantic subjectivity, so music forms the
centre of the romantic arts, and represents the point of transition between abstract spatial
sensuousness, which belongs to painting, and the abstract spirituality of poetry. Within itself
music has, like architecture, an abstract quantitative relation, as a contrast to its inward
and emotional quality; it also has as its basis a permanent law to which the tones with their
combinations and successions must conform.

POETRY

For the third and most spiritual expression of the romantic form of art, we must look to poetry.
Its characteristic peculiarity lies in the power with which it subjugates to the mind and to
its ideas the sensuous element from which music and painting began to set art free. For sound,
the one external medium of which poetry avails itself, is in it no longer a feeling of the
tone itself, but is a sign which is, by itself, meaningless. This sign, moreover, is a sign
of an idea which has become concrete, and not merely of indefinite feeling and of its nuances
and grades. By this means the tone becomes the word, an articulate voice, whose function it
is to indicate thoughts and ideas. The negative point to which music had advanced now reveals
itself in poetry as the completely concrete point, as the spirit or the self-consciousness
of the individual, which spontaneously unites the infinite space of its ideas with the time-element
of sound. But this sensuous element which, in music, was still in immediate union with inner
feelings and moods, is, in poetry, divorced from the content of consciousness, for in poetry
the mind determines this content on its own account and for the sake of its ideas, and while
it employs sound to express them, yet sound itself is reduced to a symbol with out value or
meaning. From this point of view sound may just as well be considered a mere letter, for the
audible, like the visible, is now relegated to a mere suggestion of mind. Thus the genuine
mode of poetic representation is the inner perception and the poetic imagination itself. And
since all types of art share in this mode, poetry runs through them all, and develops itself
independently in each. Poetry, then, is the universal art of the spirit which has attained
inner freedom, and which does not depend for its realization upon external sensuous matter,
but expatiates only in the inner space and inner time of the ideas and feelings. But just in
this, its highest phase, art oversteps the bounds of its own sphere by abandoning the harmoniously
sensuous mode of portraying the spirit and by passing from the poetry of imagination into the
prose of thought.

SUMMARY

Such, then, is the organic totality of the several arts the external art of architecture, the
objective art of sculpture, and the subjective arts of painting, music, and poetry. The higher
principle from which these are derived we have found in the types of art, the symbolic, the
classical, and the romantic, which form the universal phases of the idea of beauty itself.
Thus symbolic art finds its most adequate reality and most perfect application in architecture,
in which it is self-complete, and is not yet reduced, so to speak, to the inorganic medium
for another art. The classical form of art, on the other hand, attains its most complete realization
in sculpture, while it accepts architecture only as forming an inclosure round its products
and is as yet not capable of developing painting and music as absolute expressions of its meaning.
The romantic type of art, finally, seizes upon painting, music, and poetry as its essential
and adequate modes of expression. Poetry, however, is in conformity with all types of the beautiful
and extends over them all, because its characteristic element is the esthetic imagination,
and imagination is necessary for every product of art, to whatever type it may belong.

Thus what the particular arts realize in individual artistic creations are, according to the
philosophic conception, simply the universal types of the self-unfolding idea of beauty. Out
of the external realization of this idea arises the wide Pantheon of art, whose architect and
builder is the self-developing spirit of beauty, for the completion of which, however, the
history of the world will require its evolution of countless ages.

THE LIFE OF BETTINA VON ARNIM

BY HENRY WOOD, PH.D. Professor of German, Johns Hopkins University

The ten years succeeding the publication of Goethe's Briefwechsel mit einem Kinde (1835) coincided
in point of time with the awakening in England, through Thomas Carlyle, and in America as well,
of an intense if not yet profound interest in German Literature. It must remain a tribute to
the ideal enthusiasm of the movement that, among the first German works to receive a permanent
welcome and become domiciled in American literary circles, was that strange and glittering
mass, flotsam of a great poet's life dislodged and jettisoned from his personality by the subtle
arts of the "Child" who had now gathered it up again and was presenting it to the astonished
world. At a time when the Foreign Quarterly Review in England (1838) was vainly endeavoring
to persuade "Madame von Arnim" not to undertake the translation of her work, "whose unrestrained
effusions far exceed the-bounds authorized by English decorum," Margaret Fuller was preparing
in Boston to translate Bettina's Günderode, and soon felt herself in a position to state[3]
that "Goethe's Correspondence with a Child is as popular here as in Germany." In one respect,
indeed, Bettina's vogue in America remained for the rest of her lifetime more secure than in
her own country, where the publication of her later politico-sociological works, Dies Buch
gehört dem König (1843) and Gespräche mit Dämonen (1852), was followed by a temporary eclipse
of her popularity, and where also her fate, in persistently associating her with Rahel, the
wife of Varnhagen, as a foil for Rahel's brilliant but transitory glitter, had tarnished her
own fame.[4]

For these things American readers of the Correspondence seem to have cared but little. While
German critics were deliberating as to what grouping of characteristics could best express
Bettina as a type, the American public had already discovered in her a rare personality--the
recipient and custodian of Frau Rat's fondest memories of Goethe's childhood; the "mythological
nurse-maid,"[5] to whom, though in her proper name as well as to her first-born son, successive
editions of Grimm's Fairy Tales had been dedicated; the youthful friend of Beethoven, from
whom she had received treasured confidences as to the influence exerted by Goethe's verse upon
his mind and art; at times the haunting Muse of Germany's greatest poet and, since 1811, the
wife of the most chivalrous of German poets, Achim von Arnim. If we add to these characteristics
the circumstance that, as Arnim's wife and as the mother of their rarely endowed children,
she had become the centre of a distinguished and devoted circle in the Mark Brandenburg and
in the Prussian capital, the distance separating us from Ben Jonson's attitude in his Epitaph
on the Countess of Pembroke is no longer very great: "Sidney's sister, Pembroke's mother."[6]

It is, nevertheless, not through the aid of Ben Jonson's line, "fair and wise and good as she,"
that Bettina may be described. She suggests far rather an electrical, inspired, lyrical nature.
The spokesman of this literary estimate of Bettina was Margaret Fuller, and it is interesting
to note that this best of American critics at once instituted a comparison between Bettina
and Karoline von Günderode, in which the former was made to stand for Nature and the latter
for Art. But it appears to have escaped notice that Margaret Fuller, in presenting her example
of the artistic type, has, with no express intention, given us a picture of herself.[7] The
subtle harmonies, the soft aerial grace, the multiplied traits, the soul delicately appareled,
the soft dignity of each look and gesture, the silvery spiritual clearness of an angel's lyre,
drawing from every form of life its eternal meaning--these are all lineaments of the Countess
of Pembroke type, and these characteristics Margaret Fuller herself shared. How different is
her description of Bettina!

"Bettina, hovering from object to object, drawing new tides of vital energy from all, living
freshly alike in man and tree, loving the breath of the damp earth as well as the flower which
springs from it, bounding over the fences of society as well as over the fences of the field,
intoxicated with the apprehension of each new mystery, never hushed into silence by the highest,
flying and singing like a bird, sobbing with the hopelessness of an infant, prophetic, yet
astonished at the fulfilment of each prophecy, restless, fearless, clinging to love, yet unwearied
in experiment--is not this the pervasive vital force, cause of the effect which we call Nature?"

On the part of both Goethe and Bettina, there was always a recognition of such a natural force
operating in her. As Günderode once put it, "Bettina seems like clay, which a divine artificer,
preparing to fashion it into something rare, is treading with his feet." On the 13th of August,
1807, Bettina wrote: "Farewell, glorious one, thou who dost both dazzle and intimidate me.
From this steep cliff [Goethe] upon which my love has risked the climb, there is no possible
path down again. That is not to be thought of; I should simply break my neck." Goethe's reply,
in this as in other cases, was characteristic: "What can one say or give to thee, which thou
hast not after thy own fashion already appropriated? There is nothing left for me but to keep
still, and let thee have thy way." In this passage-at-arms, the whole of the Correspondence,
though not its charm, is concentrated. Goethe was intent on keeping the relationship within
its first limitations, that is to say, as a friendship in which his mother, Frau Rat, was included
as a necessary third party. The impetuous young confidante was already transmitting to Goethe
chapters from the history of his childhood, as seen through the communications of his mother
to her. These had given the poet the purest pleasure, and he intended making use of them for
his Autobiography.[8] But, on the other hand, as soon as Bettina risked independent judgments
on his creations, as in the case of the Elective Affinities (1809), her inadequacy and her
presumption in claiming for herself the rôle of a better Ottilie were both painfully apparent.
Her attitude toward the adored object was a combination of meekness and pretension, the latter
predominating as time went on. "It was sung at my cradle, that I must love a star that should
always remain apart. But thou [Goethe] hast sung me a cradle song, and to that song, which
lulls me into a dream on the fate of my days, I must listen to the end of my days." To this
humility succeeded the self-deception of the so-called later Diary. Under date of March 22,
1832, Bettina relates that Goethe, at their last interview in the early days, had called her
his Muse. Hence, on learning of his death, she reproached herself for ever having left him--"the
tree of whose fame, with its eternally budding shoots, had been committed to my care. Alas
for the false world, which separated us, and led me, poor blind child, away from my master!"
Margaret Fuller[9] called Goethe "my parent." But how sharp is the contrast between her tone
of reverent affection and the umbrageous jealousy of Bettina!

And Goethe? While the poet safeguarded his fatherly relation to Bettina, up to the break in
1811, in a hundred ways, we find him already, in 1807, inclosing in a letter to his mother
the text of Sonnet I., which had been inspired, in the first instance, by his friendship with
Minna Herzlieb. Bettina, left to draw her own conclusions, at once identified herself with
"Oreas" in the sonnet, and reproached herself for having plunged, like a mountain avalanche,
into the broad, full current of the poet's life. From the letter of September 17th it is plain
that Bettina indulged, in all seriousness, the fanciful notion that her inspiration was, in
a sense, necessary to Goethe's fame. In her fond, mystical interpretation of the sonnets, her
heart seems to her the fruitful furrow, the earth-womb, in which Goethe's songs are sown, and
out of which, accompanied by birth-pangs for her, they are destined to soar aloft as heavenly
poems. She closes with a partial application to herself of the Biblical text (Luke 1. 40):
"Blessed art thou among women."

Goethe's detractors, particularly among the literary school called Young Germany, were fond
of repeating the insinuation of Fanny Tarnow (1835), that the poet prized in Bettina only her
capacity for idolizing him. But Goethe's attitude toward the "Child" was far removed from that
of poet-pasha, and Bettina had nothing of the vacuous odalisque in her composition. G. von
Löper has well said of her composite traits: "The tender radiance of first youth hovers over
her descriptions; but, while one is beholding, Bettina suddenly changes into a mischievous
elf, and, if we reach out to grasp the kobold, lo! a sibyl stands before us!" Behind all Bettina's
mobility there is a force of individuality, as irresistible and as recurrent as the tides.
Her brother Clemens and her brother-in-law Savigny tried in vain to temper the violence of
her enthusiasm for the insurgent Tyrolese, of her flaming patriotism, of her hatred of philistinism
in every form, of her scorn for the then fashionable neutrality and moderation in the expression
of political opinion.

She was by nature and choice the advocate of the oppressed, whenever and wherever met with.
The aristocratic élégant Rumohr was obliged to put up with the following from her: "Why are
you not willing to exchange your boredom, your melancholy caprices, for a rifle? With your
figure, slender as a birch, you could leap over abysses and spring from rock to rock; but you
are lazy and infected with the disease of neutrality. You cannot hear the voices saying: 'Where
is the enemy? On, on, for God, the Kaiser, and the Fatherland!'" Even Goethe's Wilhelm Meister,
who is, according to Bettina, merely a supine hero, fails to elude her electric grasp: "Come,
flee with me across the Alps to the Tyrolese. There will we whet our swords and forget thy
rabble of comedians; and as for all thy darling mistresses, they must lack thee awhile."

The end of poets' friendships with literary women is not always marked by an anticlimax. Of
Margaret Fuller, Emerson wrote in the privacy of his Journal: "I have no friend whom I more
wish to be immortal than she. An influence I cannot spare, but would always have at hand for
recourse." Words like these Bettina was continually listening for from her poet-idol, but she
heard instead only the disillusioning echo of her own enthusiasms. Possessing neither stability
of mind nor any consistent roundness of character, she was incapable of rendering herself necessary
to Goethe. In her case, however, the gifts that were denied at her cradle seem to have been
more than made up to her. Her ardent and aspiring soul, shutting out "all thoughts, all passions,
all delights" else, was distilled into longing to share in the unending life of Goethe's poesy.[10]

Through the possession of this quality, Bettina, though not herself of heroic mold, enters
the society of the great heroines and speaks to posterity. Ariadne on the island of Naxos lives
not more truly in Ovid's poetical Epistles, than Bettina in the Correspondence. But Bettina
has not, like Ariadne, had immortality conferred upon her through the verses of two great poets.
She has rather taken it for herself, as Goethe said she was wont to do, in anticipating every
gift. It is accordingly not in the Elegiacs of Ovid, flowing as a counter-stream to Lethe,
that we may discern Bettina's gesture of immortal repose as a metamorphosed heroine. She is
a type of the inspired lyrical nature, a belated child of the Renaissance. A graceful English
song-writer of the Elizabethan period, Thomas Campion, who was as fond as Bettina of the figure
of the flower and the sun, through which she symbolized her relation to Goethe, has in his
verses anticipated her pose and her tone of agitated expectancy:

             "Is [he] come? O how near is [he]?
             How far yet from this friendly place?
             How many steps from me?
             When shall I [him] embrace?

  These armes I'll spread, which only at (his) sight shall close,
  Attending, as the starry flower that the sun's noone-tide knowes."

Campion termed his verses Light Conceits of Lovers. It is difficult to weigh Bettina's fancies,
for she has, as it were, taken the scales with her when she closed the Correspondence: but
it is only just to say of her Letters, that they realize, as a whole, Tasso's description of
the permanent state of the true lover: "Brama assai, poco spera e nulla chiede" (Desire much,
hope little and nothing demand).

GOETHE'S CORRESPONDENCE WITH A CHILD (1835)

BY BETTINA VON ARNIM TRANSLATED BY WALLACE SMITH MURRAY

LETTERS TO GOETHE'S MOTHER

May 11, 1807.

Dear Frau Rat:

I have been lying in bed for some time, but shall get up now to write you all about our trip.
I wrote you that we passed through the military lines in male attire. Just before we reached
the city gate my brother-in-law made us get out, because he wanted to see how becoming the
clothes were. Lulu looked very well in them, for she has a splendid figure and the fit was
perfect, whereas all my clothes were too loose and too long and looked as if I had bought them
at a rag fair. My brother-in-law laughed at me and said I looked like a Savoyard boy and could
be of great service to them. The coachman had driven us off the road through a forest, and
when we came to a cross-road he didn't know which way to turn. Although it was only the beginning
of the four weeks' trip, I was afraid we might get lost and then arrive in Weimar too late.
I climbed up the highest pine and soon saw where the main road lay. I made the whole trip on
the driver's box, with a fox-skin cap on my head and the brush hanging down my back. Whenever
we arrived at a station, I would unharness the horses and help hitch up the fresh ones, and
would speak broken German with the postilions as though I were a Frenchman. At first we had
beautiful weather, just as though spring were coming; but soon it turned very cold and wintry.
We passed through a forest of huge pines and firs all covered with frost; everything was spotless,
for not a soul had driven along the road, which was absolutely white. Moreover the moon shone
upon this deserted paradise of silver; a death-like stillness reigned-only the wheels creaked
from the cold. I sat up on the box and wasn't a bit cold; winter weather strikes sparks from
me! Along toward midnight we heard some one whistling in the forest. My brother-in-law handed
me a pistol out of the carriage and asked whether I should have the courage to shoot in case
robbers came along. I said "Yes," and he answered, "But don't shoot too soon." Lulu, who was
inside the carriage, was frightened nearly to death, but where I was, out under the open sky,
with my pistol cocked and my sabre buckled on, countless stars twinkled above me, the glistening
trees casting their gigantic shadows on the broad, moon-lit way--all that made me brave away
up on my lofty seat! Then I thought of him and wondered, if he had met me under such circumstances
in his youthful years, whether it would not have made so poetic an impression on him that he
would have composed sonnets to me and never have forgotten me. Now perhaps he thinks differently,
and has probably risen above such a magic impression. It may be that higher qualities--how
shall I ever attain them?--will maintain a right over him, unless eternal fidelity, cleaving
to his threshold, finally wins him for me! Such was my mood on that cold, clear, winter night,
in which I found no occasion to shoot off my pistol. Not until daybreak did I receive permission
to fire it. The carriage stopped and I ran into the forest and bravely shot it off into the
dense solitude, in honor of your son. In the meantime our axle had broken; we felled a tree
with an axe we had with us and bound it securely with ropes; then my brother-in-law discovered
how handy I was and complimented me. Thus we went on to Magdeburg. Precisely at seven o'clock
in the evening the fortress gates are closed; we arrived just a minute late and had to wait
outside till seven the next morning. It wasn't very cold, and the two inside the chaise went
to sleep. In the night it began to snow; I had pulled my cloak over my head and sat quietly
in my exposed seat. In the morning they peeped out of the carriage at me and beheld a snow
man; but before they could get thoroughly frightened I threw off the cloak under which I had
kept quite warm. In Berlin I was like a blind man in a throng and was so absent-minded that
I could take no interest in anything. I only longed for a dark place where I shouldn't be disturbed
and could think of the future that was so near at hand. Oh, mother, mother, think of your son!
If you knew you were to see him in a short time, you too would be like a lightning-rod attracting
every flash of lightning. When we were only a few miles from Weimar, my brother-in-law said
he did not wish to make the detour through Weimar, but would rather take another road. I remained
silent, but Lulu would not hear of it; she said it had been promised me and he would have to
keep his word. Oh, mother, the sword hung by a hair over my head, but I managed to escape from
under it.

We reached Weimar at twelve o'clock and sat down to dinner, but I couldn't eat. The other two
lay down on the sofa and went to sleep, for we hadn't slept in three nights. "I advise you,"
said my brother-in-law, "to take a rest too; it won't make much difference to Goethe whether
you go to see him or not, and there's nothing remarkable to see in him anyway." Can you imagine
how these words discouraged me? Oh, I didn't know what to do, all alone in a strange town.
I had changed my dress and stood at the window and looked at the town clock; it was just striking
half-past two. It seemed to me, too, that Goethe wouldn't care particularly about seeing me;
I remembered that people called him proud. I compresses my heart to quell its yearning. Suddenly
the clock struck three, and then it seemed exactly as though he had called me. I ran down for
the servant, but there was no carriage to be found. "Will a sedan chair do?" "No," I said,
"that's an equipage for the hospital"--and we went on foot. There was a regular chocolate porridge
in the streets and I had to have myself carried over the worst bogs. In this way I came to
Wieland, not to your son. I had never seen Wieland, but I pretended to be an old acquaintance.
He thought and thought, and finally said, "You certainly are a dear familiar angel, but I can't
seem to remember when and where I have seen you." I jested with him and said, "Now I know that
you dream of me, for you can't possibly have seen me elsewhere!" I had him give me a note to
your son which I afterwards took with me and kept as a souvenir. Here's a copy of it: "Bettina
Brentano, Sophie's sister, Maximilian's daughter, Sophie La Roche's granddaughter wishes to
see you, dear brother, and pretends that she's afraid of you and that a note from me would
serve as a talisman and give her courage. Although I am pretty certain that she is merely making
sport of me, I nevertheless have to do what she wants and I shall be astonished if you don't
have the same experience. W.

April 23, 1807."

With this note I sallied forth. The house lies opposite the fountain--how deafening the waters
sounded in my ears! I ascended the simple staircase; in the wall stand plaster statues which
impose silence--at any rate I couldn't utter a sound in this sacred hallway. Everything is
cheery and yet solemn! The greatest simplicity prevails in the rooms, and yet it is all so
inviting! "Do not fear," said the modest walls, "he will come, and he will be, and he will
not claim to be more than you." And then the door opened and there he stood, solemnly serious,
with his eyes fixed upon me. I stretched out my hands toward him, I believe, and soon I knew
no more. Goethe caught me up quickly to his heart. "Poor child, did I frighten you?"--those
were the first words through which his voice thrilled my heart. He led me into his room and
placed me on the sofa opposite him. There we sat, both mute, until at last he broke the silence.
"You have doubtless read in the paper that we suffered a great bereavement a few days ago in
the death of the Duchess Amalia."

"Oh," I said, "I do not read the papers."

"Why, I thought everything that goes on in Weimar interests you."

"No, nothing interests me but you alone, and therefore I'm far too impatient to pore over the
papers."

"You are a kind child." A long pause--I, glued in such anxiety to the odious sofa; you know
how impossible it is for me to sit up in such well-bred fashion. Oh, mother, is it possible
for any one to forget herself thus?

Suddenly I said, "I can't stay here on this sofa any longer," and jumped up.

"Well," said he, "make yourself comfortable;" and with that I flew into his arms. He drew me
on his knee and pressed me to his heart. Everything was quiet, oh, so quiet, and then all vanished.
I hadn't slept for so long--years had passed in longing for him--and I fell asleep on his breast.
When I awoke a new life began for me. I'll not write you more this time.

BETTINA.

May, 1807.

 * * * Yes, man has a conscience; it exhorts him to fear nothing and to
leave no demand of the heart unsatisfied. Passion is the only key to the
world and through it the spirit learns to know and feel everything, for
how could he enter the world otherwise? And so I feel that only through
my love for him am I born into the spirit, that only through him the
world is opened to me where the sun shines and day becomes distinct from
night. The things I do not learn through this love, I shall never
comprehend. I wish I were a poor beggar girl and might sit at his
door-step, and take a morsel of bread from him, and that in my glance my
soul would be revealed to him. Then he would draw me close to him and
wrap me in his cloak, that I might grow warm. Surely he would not bid me
depart; I could remain, wandering on and on in his home. And so the
years would roll by and no one would know who I am and no one would know
what had become of me, and thus the years and life itself would go by.
The whole world would be mirrored in his face, and I should have no need
of learning anything more.* * *

                                                       October, 1808.

* * * I hadn't yet seen him at that time when you used to while away for me those hours of
ardent longing by picturing to me in a thousand different ways our first meeting and his joyous
astonishment. Now I know him and I know how he smiles and the tone of his voice--how calm it
is and yet so full of love; and his exclamations--how they come swelling from the depths of
his heart like the tones of a melody, and how gently he soothes and affirms what surges forth
in wild disorder from an overflowing heart. When I met him so unexpectedly again last year,
I was so beside myself and wanted to speak, but simply could not compose myself. Then he placed
his fingers on my lips and said, "Speak with your eyes--I understand it all"; and when he saw
that they were full of tears he pressed my eyelids down and said; "Quiet, quiet, that is best
for both of us!" Yes, dear mother, quiet was instantly suffused through my whole being, for
didn't I possess everything for which I had longed for years! Oh, mother, I shall never cease
thanking you for bearing this friend; where else could I have found him? Now don't laugh at
me, but remember that I loved him before I knew the least thing about him, and if you had not
borne him what would have become of him? That is a question you cannot answer.

 * * * Thus a part of the winter passed. I was in a very happy frame of
mind--others might call it exaltation, but it was natural to me. By the
fortress wall that surrounded the large garden there was a watch-tower
with a broken ladder inside. A house close by had been broken into, and
though the thieves could not be traced it was believed they were
concealed in the tower. I had examined it by day and seen that it would
be impossible for a strong man to climb up this very high ladder, which
was rotten and lacked many rungs. I tried it, but slid down again after
I had gone up a short distance. In the night, after I had lain in bed
awhile and Meline was asleep, the thought left me no peace. I threw a
cloak about my shoulders, climbed out of the window, and walked by the
old Marburg castle, where the Elector Philip and Elizabeth peeped
laughingly out of the window. Often enough in the daytime I had observed
this marble couple leaning far out of the window arm in arm, as though
they wanted to survey their lands; but now at night I was so afraid of
them that I jumped quickly into the tower. There I seized the ladder and
helped myself up, heaven knows how; what I was unable to do in the
daytime I accomplished at night with anxiously throbbing heart. When I
was almost at the top, I stopped and considered that the thieves might
really be up there and that they might attack me and hurl me from the
tower. There I hung, not knowing whether to climb up or down, but the
fresh air I scented lured me to the top. What feelings came over me when
I suddenly, by snow and moonlight, surveyed the landscape spread out
beneath me and stood there, alone and safe, with the great host of stars
above me! Thus it is after death; the soul, striving to free itself,
feels the burden of the body most as it is about to cast it off, but it
is victorious in the end and relieved of its anguish. I was conscious
only of being alone and nothing was closer to me at that moment than my
solitude; all else had to vanish before this blessing. * * *

LETTERS to GOETHE.

May 25, 1807.

 * * * Ah, I can impart nothing else to thee than simply that which goes on
in my heart! "Oh, if I could be with him now!" I thought, "the sunlight
of my joy would beam on him with radiance as glowing as when his eye
meets mine in friendly greeting. Oh, how splendid! My mind a sky of
purple, my words the warm dew of love; my soul must issue like an
unveiled bride from her chamber and confess: "Oh, lord and master, in
the future I will see thee often and long by day, and the day shall
often be closed by such an evening as this."

This I promise--that whatever goes on in my soul, all that is untouched by the outer world,
shall be secretly and faithfully revealed to him who takes such loving interest in me and whose
all-embracing power assures abundant, fruitful nourishment to the budding germs within my breast!

Without faith the lot of the soul is hard; its growth is slow and meagre like that of a hot-plant
between rocks. Thus am I--thus I was until today--and this fountain of my heart, always without
an outlet, suddenly finds its way to the light, and banks of balsam-breathing fields, blooming
like paradise, accompany it on its way.

Oh, Goethe! My longing, my feelings, are melodies seeking a song to cling to! May I cling to
thee? Then shall these melodies ascend high enough to accompany thy songs!* * *

June 20, 1807.

* * * I cannot resist telling thee what I have dreamed of thee at night--as if thou wert in
the world for no other purpose. Often I have had the same dream and I have pondered much why
my soul should always commune with thee under the same conditions. It is always as though I
were to dance before thee in ethereal garments. I have a feeling that I shall accomplish all.
The crowd surrounds me. Now I seek thee, and thou sittest opposite me calm and serene as if
thou didst not observe me and wert busy with other things. Now I step out before thee with
shoes of gold and my silvery arms hanging down carelessly--and wait. Then thou raisest thy
head, involuntarily thy gaze is fixed upon me as I describe magic circles with airy tread.
Thy eye leaves me no more; thou must follow me in my movements, and I experience the triumph
of success! All that thou scarcely divinest I reveal to thee in the dance, and thou art astonished
at the wisdom concealed in it. Soon I cast off my airy robe and show thee my wings and mount
on high! Then I rejoice to see thy eye following me, and I glide to earth again and sink into
thy embrace. Then thou sighest and gazest at me in rapture. Waking from these dreams I return
to mankind as from a distant land; their voices seem so strange and their demeanor too! And
now let me confess that my tears are flowing at this confession of my dreams. * * *

March 15, 1808.

When in a few weeks I go into the Rhine country, for spring will be here then, I shall write
thee from every mountain; I am always so much nearer thee when I am outside the city walls.
I sometimes seem to feel thee then with every breath I take. I feel thee reigning in my heart
when it is beautiful without, when the air caresses; yes, when nature is good and kind like
thee, then I feel thee so distinctly! * * *

 * * * All other men seem to me as one and the same--I do not distinguish
between them, and I take no interest in the great universal sea of human
events. The stream of life bears thee, and thou me. In thy arms I shall
pass over it, and thou wilt bear me until the end--wilt thou not? And
even though there were thousands of existences yet to come, I can not
take wing to them, for with thee I am at home. So be thou also at home
in me--or dost thou know anything better than me and thee in the magic
circle of life? * * *

March 30, 1808.

 * * * The vineyards were still partially covered with snow. I was sitting
on a broken window-bar and freezing, yet my ardent love for thee
permeated my being. I was trembling for fear of falling, yet I climbed
still higher because it occurred to me too venturesome for thy sake;
thus thou often inspirest me with daring. It was fortunate that the wild
wolves from the Odenwald[11] did not appear, for I should have grappled
with them had I thought of thy honor. It seems foolish, but it's
true.--Midnight, the evil hour of spirits, awakens me, and I lie at the
window in the cold winter wind. All Frankfurt is dead, the wicks in the
street lamps are on the point of expiring, and the old rusty
weather-vanes cry out to me, and I ask myself, is that the eternal tune?
Then I feel that this life is a prison where we all have only a pitiful
vision of real freedom; that is one's own soul. Then a tumult rages in
my breast and I long to soar above these old pointed gabled roofs that
cut off heaven from me. I leave my chamber, run through the wide halls
of our house, and search for a way through the old garrets. I suspect
there are ghosts behind the rafters, but I do not heed them. Then I seek
the steps to the little turret, and, when I am at last on top, I look
out through the small window at the wide heavens and am not at all cold.
It seems to me then as if I must give vent to all my pent-up tears, and
the next day I am so cheerful and feel new-born, and I look with cunning
for a prank to play. And--canst thou believe it?--all this is--thou!

May, 1808.

If it pleases thee to see me at thy feet in deep shame and confusion, then look down upon me
now. Thus does the poor shepherd-maiden fare, on whose head the king places a crown; even though
her heart be proud to love him, yet the crown is too heavy and her little head staggers under
the burden. And besides, she is intoxicated with the honor and the homage which her beloved
pays her.

Oh, I shall be careful never to complain again or to pray for fine weather, for I cannot bear
the blinding sunbeams! No, rather sigh in silent darkness than be led by thy muse into the
brilliant daylight, confused and crowned--that breaks my heart. O, do not gaze on me so long;
remove the crown and press me to thy heart! Teach me to forget in thee that thou returnest
me, glorified, to myself.

July 7, 1808.

 * * * Ah, the rainbow even now setting its diamond foot on the meadow at
Ingelheim and reaching over the house to Mount St. John is just like the
blissful illusion I have of thee and me! The Rhine, spreading out its
net to catch the vision of its banks of paradise, is like this flame of
life nourished by reflections of the unattainable. Let it then win
nothing more from reality than this illusion; it will give to me the
peculiar spirit and the character expressive of my own self, just as the
reflection does to the river in which it is mirrored. * * *

July 18, 1808.

 * * * Yesterday evening I went up the Rochus mountain alone and wrote thee
thus far; then I dreamed a little, and when I came to myself I thought
the sun was just going down, but it was the rising moon. I was
astonished and should have been afraid, but the stars wouldn't let
me--these hundreds of thousands and I together on that night. Who am
I, then, that I should be of raid? Am I not numbered with them? I didn't
dare descend and, besides, I shouldn't have found a boat to cross in.
The nights aren't so very long now, anyway, so I turned over on the
other side, said "good night" to the stars and was soon fast asleep. Now
and then I was awakened by flitting breezes, and then I thought of thee.
As often as I awoke I called thee to me and always said in my heart:
"Goethe be with me, that I may not be afraid." Then I dreamed that I was
floating along the reedy banks of the Rhine, and where it is deepest
between black rocky cliffs the ring thou gavest me slipped off. I saw it
sinking deeper and deeper till it reached the bottom. I wanted to call
for help, but then I awoke in the radiance of the morning, rejoicing
that the ring was still on my finger. Ah, prophet, interpret my dream
for me! Anticipate fate, and let no dangers beset our love after this
beautiful night when, betwixt fear and joy, in counsel with the stars, I
thought of thy future!

* * * No one knows where I was--and, even if they did, could they imagine why I was there?
Thou tamest toward me through the whispering forest, enveloped in a soft haze, and when thou
wert quite near me my tired senses could not endure it, so strong was the fragrance of the
wild thyme. Then I fell asleep--it was so beautiful--all blossoms and fragrance! And the great
boundless host of stars and the flickering silver moon that danced near and far upon the stream,
the intense stillness of nature in which one hears all that stirs--ah, I feel my soul implanted
here in this nocturnal trembling! Future thoughts are blossoming here; these cold dew-pearls
that weigh down grass and herbs, from these the spirit grows! Oh, it hastens to blossom for
thee, Goethe! It will unfold its gayest colors before thee! It is for love of thee that I wish
to think, that I struggle with the inexpressible. Thou lookest upon me in spirit and thy gaze
draws thoughts from me, and then I am often compelled to say things I do not understand but
only see.

The spirit also has senses. Just as there is much that we only hear, or only see, or only feel,
so there are thoughts which the spirit also perceives with only one of these senses. Often
I only see what I am thinking; often I only feel it, and when I hear it I experience a shock.
I do not know how I come by this knowledge which is not the fruit of my own meditation. I look
about me for the author of this opinion and then conclude that it is all created from the fire
of love. There is warmth in the spirit; we feel it; the cheeks glow from our thoughts and cold
chills come over us, which fan our inspiration into new flame. Yes, dear friend, this morning
when I awoke it seemed to me as though I had experienced great things, as though the pledges
of my heart had wings and soared over hill and dale into the pure, serene, radiant ether. No
vow, no conditions--nothing but appropriate motion, pure striving for the divine. This is my
pledge: Freedom from all ties, and that I will have faith only in that spirit which reveals
the beautiful and prophesies eternal bliss. * * *

We were on the road five days, and since then it has rained incessantly. The whole house full
of guests, and not even a little corner where I could enjoy solitude and write thee!

As long as I have anything to tell thee, I firmly believe that thy spirit is fixed upon me
as upon so many enigmas of nature. In fact, I believe that every human being is such an enigma,
and that the mission of love between friends is to solve that enigma so that each shall learn
to know his deeper nature through and in his friend. Yes, dearest, it makes me happy that my
life is gradually developing through thee, and for that reason I do not want to seem what I
am not; I should prefer to have all my faults and weaknesses known to thee rather than give
thee a false conception of what I am, for then thy love would not concern me but rather an
illusion that I had substituted for myself. For that reason, also, a feeling often warns me
that I must avoid this or that for love of thee, because I should deny it in thy presence.

From the Rochusberg.

 Oh, Goethe, thy letters are so dear to me that I have tied them up
in a silk kerchief embroidered with bright flowers and golden ornaments.
The last day before our Rhine trip I did not know what to do with them.
I did not want to take them along, since we had only one portmanteau
between us, and I did not want to leave them in my little room, which I
could not lock because it was being used; I thought the boat might sink
and I drown--and then these letters, one after the other of which has
reposed close to my heart, would fall into strange hands. At first I
wanted to leave them with the nuns in Vollratz (they are St. Bernard
nuns who were driven from their convent and are now living there), but I
changed my mind afterwards. The last time I was up here on the mountain
I found a spot. Beneath the confession-chair still standing in the
Rochus chapel, in which I'm also in the habit of keeping my writings, I
dug a hole and lined it on the inside with shells from the Rhine and
beautiful little pebbles that I found on the mountain. I placed the
letters in it, wrapped in their silken covering, and before the spot
planted a thistle which I had pulled up carefully by the roots together
with the earth about them. On the journey I was often worried about
them; what a shock it would have been if I had not found them again! My
heart stands still at the very thought of it!

August 24, 1808.

 * * * It was midnight; the moon rose dim. The ship, whose shadow sailed
along beside it, like a monster, upon the illuminated Rhine, cast a
dazzling light upon the woody meadow of Ingelheim along which it was
moving. The moon appeared behind the meadow, mild and modest, and
gradually wrapped itself in a thin cloud of mist as in a veil. Whenever
we contemplate nature in calm meditation, it always lays hold of our
heartstrings. What could have turned my senses more fervently to God,
what could have more easily freed me from the trivial things that
oppress me? I am not ashamed to confess to thee that at that moment thy
image flamed up impetuously in my soul. It is true: Thy radiance pierces
me as the sun pours into the crystal of the grape and, like the sun,
thou dost ripen me with ever increasing fire and ever increasing
purity. * * *

February 23, 1809.

If thy imagination is supple enough to accompany me into all the recesses of ruined walls,
over mountains and chasms, then I shall venture farther and introduce thee to the recesses
of my heart.

I beg thee, therefore, to climb up here, still higher, up three flights to my room; sit on
the blue stool by the green table opposite me. I merely want to gaze at thee--and, Goethe--does
thy imagination still follow me?--then thou must discover the most constant love in my eyes,
and must draw me lovingly into thy arms, and say, "Such a faithful child is given me as a reward,
as amends, for much! This child is dear to me, 'tis a treasure, a precious jewel that I do
not wish to lose." Dost thou understand? And thou must kiss me, for that is what my imagination
bestows on thine!

I shall lead thee still farther! Step softly into the chamber of my heart-here we are in the
vestibule--utter stillness--no Humboldt--no architect--no barking dog. Thou art not a stranger;
go up and knock; it will be alone and call to thee "Come in!" Thou wilt find it on a cool,
quiet couch, and a friendly light will greet thee. All will be peace and order, and thou wilt
be welcome! What is that? Heavens! See the flames shooting up over him! Whence this conflagration?
Who can save here? Poor heart! Poor, suffering heart! What can reason accomplish here? It knows
everything better and yet can not help; its arms drop helpless by its side. * * *

Good night, good night until tomorrow! Everything is quiet and all in the house are asleep
dreaming of the things they desire when awake; but I alone am awake with thee. Outside, on
the street, all is still. I should like to be assured that at this moment no soul besides mine
is thinking of thee, that no other heart gives a throb for thee, and that I alone in the wide
world am sitting at thy feet, my heart beating with full strokes. And while all are asleep
I am awake in order to press thy knee to my breast--and thou?--the world need not know that
thou lovest me!

October 23, 1809.

The moon is shining from afar over the mountains and winter clouds drive by in droves. I have
been standing at the window awhile and watching the tumult in the heavens. Dear Goethe! Good
Goethe! I am all alone; it has taken me out of myself again and up to thee. I must nurse this
love between us like a new-born babe. Beautiful butterflies balance themselves on the flowers
I have planted about his cradle, golden fables adorn his dreams; I jest and play with him,
and employ all my cunning to gain his favor. But thou dost master it without effort by the
splendid harmony of thy spirit; with thee there is no need of tender outbursts, of protestations.
While I look after each moment of the present, the power of blessing emanates from thee that
transcends all reason and all the universe. * * *

Last night I dreamed of thee! What could have been more beautiful? Thou wast serious and very
busy and didst ask me not to disturb thee. That made me sad and then thou didst press my hand
tenderly to my bosom and didst say, "Be quiet; I know thee and understand all." Then I awoke,
and thy ring, which I had pressed to myself in my sleep, had left its imprint on my bosom.
I pressed it more firmly against the same spot, since I could not embrace thee. Is there nothing,
then, in a dream? To me it is everything, and I will gladly give up the activities of the day
if I can be with thee and speak with thee at night. Oh, be thou my happiness in my dreams!

Munich, November 9, 1809.

 * * * This is my vow: I will gather flowers for thee and bright garlands
shall adorn thy entrance; should thy foot stumble, it will be over the
wreaths which I have laid on thy threshold, and shouldst thou dream, it
is the balsam of magic blossoms that intoxicates thee--flowers of a
strange and distant world where I am at home and not a stranger as in
this book[12] where a ravenous tiger devours the delicate image of
spiritual love. I do not understand this cruel riddle; I cannot
comprehend why they all make themselves unhappy and why they all serve a
malicious demon with a thorny sceptre, why Charlotte, who strews incense
before him daily, yes, hourly, should prepare misfortune for them all
with mathematical precision! Is not love free? Are those two not
affinities? Why should she prevent them from living this innocent life
with and near each other? They are twins; twined round each other they
ripen on to their birth into the light, and she would separate these
seedlings because she cannot believe in innocence, which she inoculates
with the monstrous sin of prejudice! O what a fatal precaution!

Let me tell you: No one seems to comprehend ideal love; they all believe in sensual love, and
consequently they neither experience nor bestow any happiness that springs from that higher
emotion or might be fully realized through it. Whatever may fall to my lot, let it be through
this ideal love that tears down all barriers to new worlds of art, divination, and poetry.
Naturally it can live only in a noble element just as it feels at home only in a lofty mind.

Here thy Mignon occurs to me--how she dances blindfolded between eggs. My love is adroit; you
can rely thoroughly on its instinct; it will also dance on blindly, and will make no misstep. * * *

November 29, 1809.

I had written thus far yesterday, when I crept into bed from fear, but I could not succeed
yesterday in falling asleep at thy feet, lost in contemplation of thee as I do every evening.
I was ashamed that I had chattered so arrogantly, and perhaps all is not as I mean it. Maybe
it is jealousy that excites me so and impels me to seek a way to draw thee to me again and
make thee forget her.[13]

Well, put me to the test, and, be it as it may, do not forget my love. Forgive me also for
sending thee my diary. I wrote it on the Rhine and have spread out before thee my childhood
years and shown thee how our mutual affinity drove me on like a rivulet hastening on over crags
and rocks, through thorns and mosses, till thou, mighty stream, didst engulf me. Yes, I wanted
to keep this book until I should at last be with thee again, so that I might tell by looking
into thy eyes in the morning what thou hadst read in it the evening before. But now it torments
me to think of thee substituting my diary for Ottilie's, and loving the living one who remains
with thee more than the one who has departed from thee.

Do not burn my letters, do not tear them up, for it might give thee pain--so firmly, so absolutely,
am I joined to thee. But do not show them to any one; keep them concealed like a secret beauty,
for my love is becoming to thee; thou art beautiful because thou feelest thyself loved!

February 29, 1810.

I will confess to thee and honestly acknowledge all my sins--first, those for which thou art
partly responsible and which thou too must expiate with me, then those which weigh most heavily
on me, and finally those in which I actually rejoice.

First: I tell thee too often that I love thee, yet I know nothing else, no matter how, much
I turn it one way or the other; that's all there is.

Secondly: I am jealous of all thy friends, the playmates of thy youth, the sun that shines
into thy room, thy servants, and, above all, thy gardener that lays out the asparagus-beds
at thy command.

Thirdly: I begrudge thee all pleasure because I am not along. When any one has seen thee and
speaks of thy gaiety and charm, it does not please me particularly; but when he says thou wast
serious, cool, and reserved, then I am delighted!

Fourthly: I neglect every one for thy sake; nobody is anything to me, and I don't care anything
about their love; indeed, if any one praises me, he displeased me. That is jealousy of thee
and me, and by no means a proof of a generous heart; it is a sign of a wretched character that
withers on one side when it would blossom on the other.

Fifthly: I have a great inclination to despise everybody, especially those that praise thee,
and I cannot bear to hear anything good said of thee. Only a few simple persons can I allow
to speak of thee, and it need not be praise at that. No, they may even make fun of thee a little,
and then, I can tell thee, an unmerciful roguishness comes over me when I can throw off the
chains of slavery for a brief spell.

Sixthly: I have a deep resentment in my soul that it is not thee with whom I live under the
same roof and with whom I breathe the same air. I am afraid to be near strangers. In church
I look for a seat on the beggars' bench, because they are the most neutral; the finer the people,
the stronger my aversion. To be touched makes me angry, ill, and unhappy, and so I cannot stand
it long in society at dances. I am fond of dancing, could I but dance alone in the open where
the breath of strangers would not touch me. What influence would it have on the soul if one
could always live near one's friend?--all the more painful the struggle against that which
must remain forever estranged, spiritually as well as physically.

Seventhly: When I have to listen to any one reading aloud in company, I sit in a corner and
secretly hold my ears shut or, at the first word that comes along, completely lose myself in
thoughts. Then, when some one does not understand, I awaken out of another world and presume
to supply the explanation, and what the rest consider madness is all reasonable enough to me
and consistent with an inner knowledge that I cannot impart. Above all, I cannot bear to hear
anything read from thy works, nor can I bear to read them aloud; I must be alone with me and thee.

Vienna, May 28, 1810.

It is Beethoven of whom I want to speak now, and in whom I have forgotten the world and thee.
I may not be qualified to judge, but I am not mistaken when I say (what perhaps no one now
realizes or believes) that he is far in advance of the culture of all mankind, and I wonder
whether we can ever catch up with him! I doubt it. I only hope that he may live until the mighty
and sublime enigma that lies in his soul may have reached its highest and ripest perfection.
May he reach his highest ideal, for then he will surely leave in our hands the key to a divine
knowledge which will bring us one step nearer true bliss!

To thee I may confess that I believe in a divine magic which is the element of spiritual nature,
and this magic Beethoven employs in his music. All he can teach thee about it is pure magic;
every combination of sounds is a phase of a higher existence, and for this reason Beethoven
feels that he is the founder of a new sensuous basis in the spiritual life. Thou wilt probably
be able to feel intuitively what I am trying to say, and that it is true. Who could replace
this spirit? From whom could we expect anything equivalent to it? All human activity passes
to and fro before him like clockwork; he alone creates freely from his inmost self the undreamed
of, the untreated. What would intercourse with the outside world profit this man, who is at
his sacred work before sunrise and scarcely looks about him before sunset, who forgets bodily
nourishment, and who is borne in his flight by the stream of inspiration past the shores of
superficial, everyday life. He himself said to me, "Whenever I open my eyes I cannot but sigh,
for all I see is counter to my religion and I must despise the world which does not comprehend
that music is a higher revelation than all wisdom and philosophy. It is the wine which inspires
new creations, and I am the Bacchus who presses out this glorious wine for men and intoxicates
their spirit! * * * I have no friend and must ever be alone, but I know that God is nearer
to me in my art than to others, and I commune with him without fear; I have always recognized
Him and understood Him. Nor have I any fears for my music; it can meet no evil fate, for he
to whom it makes itself intelligible will be freed from all misery with which others are burdened."

All this Beethoven said to me the first time I saw him, and I was penetrated with a feeling
of reverence when he expressed himself to me with such friendly candor, since I must have seemed
very unimportant to him. Besides, I was astonished, for I had been told that he was exceedingly
reticent and avoided conversation with any one; in fact, they were afraid to introduce me to
him, so I had to look him up alone. He has three dwellings in which he alternately conceals
himself--one in the country, one in the city, and the third on the bastion, in the third story
of which I found him. I entered unannounced and mentioned my name. He was seated at the piano
and was quite amiable. He inquired whether I did not wish to hear a song that he had just composed.
Then he sang, in a shrill and piercing voice, so that the plaintiveness reacted upon the listener,
"Knowest thou the land?" "It is beautiful, isn't it, very beautiful!" he cried, enraptured;
"I'll sing it again;" and was delighted at my ready applause. "Most people are stirred by something
good, but they are not artistic natures; artists are fiery--they do not weep." Then he sang
one of thy songs that he had composed lately, "Dry not, Tears of Eternal Love."

Yesterday I went for a walk with him through a beautiful garden at Schönbrunn that was in full
blossom; all the hothouses were open and the fragrance was overpowering. Beethoven stopped
in the burning sun and said, "Goethe's poems exercise a great power over me, not alone through
their content, but also through their rhythm, and I am incited and moved to compose by his
language, which is built up as if by the aid of spirits into a sublime structure that bears
within it the mystery of harmonies. Then from the focus of my inspiration I must let the melody
stream forth in every direction; I pursue it, passionately overtake it again, see it escaping
me a second time and disappearing in a host of varying emotions; soon I seize it with renewed
ardor; I can no longer separate myself from it, but with impetuous rapture I must reproduce
it in all modulations, and, in the final moment, I triumph over the musical idea--and that,
you see, is a symphony! Yes, music is truly the mediator between the spiritual and the sensuous
world. I should like to discuss this with Goethe; I wonder whether he would understand me!
Melody is the sensuous life of poetry. Does not the spiritual content of a poem become sensuous
feeling through melody? Do we not in the song of Mignon feel her whole sensuous mood through
melody, and does not this sensation incite one in turn to new creations? Then the spirit longs
to expand to boundless universality where everything together forms a channel for the feelings
that spring from the simple musical thought and that otherwise would die away unnoted. This
is harmony; this is expressed in my symphonies; the blending of manifold forms rolls on to
the goal in a single channel. At such moments one feels that something eternal, infinite, something
that can never be wholly comprehended, lies in all things spiritual; and although I always
have the feeling of success in my compositions, yet with the last stroke of the drum with which
I have driven home my own enjoyment, my musical conviction, to my hearers, I feel an eternal
hunger to begin anew, like a child, what a moment before seemed to me to have been exhausted.

"Speak to Goethe of me; and tell him to hear my symphonies. Then he will agree with me that
music is the sole incorporeal entrance into a higher world of knowledge which, to be sure,
embraces man, but which he, on the other hand, can never embrace. Rhythm of the spirit is necessary
to comprehend music in its essence; music imparts presentiments, inspirations of divine science,
and what the spirit experiences of the sensuous in it is the embodiment of spiritual knowledge.
Although the spirits live upon music as man lives upon air, it is a very different matter to
comprehend it with the spirit. But the more the soul draws its sensuous nourishment from it,
the riper the spirit becomes for a happy mutual understanding.

"But few ever attain this understanding, for just as thousands marry for love and yet love
is never once revealed to them, although they all pursue the trade of love, so do thousands
hold communion with music and yet do not possess its revelation. For music also has as its
foundation the sublime tokens of the moral sense, just as every art does; every genuine invention
indicates moral progress. To subject oneself to its inscrutable laws, to curb and guide one's
spirit by means of these laws, so that it will pour forth the revelations of music--this is
the isolating principle of art. To be dissolved by its revelation--that is the surrender to
the divine, which quietly exercises its mastery over the delirium of unbridled forces and thus
imparts the greatest efficacy to the imagination. Thus art always represents divinity, and
the human relationship to art constitutes religion. Whatever we acquire through art comes from
God; it is a divine inspiration, which sets up an attainable goal for human capacities.

"We do not know whence our knowledge comes; the firmly inclosed seed requires the warm, moist,
electric soil to sprout, to think, to express itself. Music is the electric soil in which the
soul lives, thinks, invents. Philosophy is a precipitation of its electric spirit, and the
need that philosophy feels of basing everything on an ultimate principle is in turn relieved
by music. Although the spirit is not master of what it creates through the mediation of music,
yet it experiences ecstasy in this creation. In this way every genuine creation of art is independent,
mightier than the artist himself, and through its expression it returns to its divine source;
it is concerned with man only insomuch as it bears witness to divine mediation in him.

"Music gives the spirit its relation to harmony. A thought, even when isolated, still senses
the totality of relationship in the spirit; thus every thought in music is most intimately
and inseparably related to the totality of harmony, which is unity. Everything electric stimulates
the spirit to fluent, precipitous, musical creation. I myself am of an electrical nature."  * * *

He took me to a grand rehearsal with full orchestra, and I sat back in a box all alone in the
large, unlighted hall, and saw this mighty spirit wield his authority. Oh, Goethe I No emperor,
no king, is so conscious of his power, so conscious that all power radiates from him, as this
same Beethoven is, who only now in the garden was searching for the source of his inspiration.
If I understood him as I feel him, I should be omniscient. There he stood, so firmly resolved,
his gestures and features expressing the perfection of his creation, anticipating every error,
every misconception; every breath obeyed his will, and everything was set into the most rational
activity by the superb presence of his spirit. One might well prophesy that such a spirit will
reappear in a later reincarnation as ruler of the universe!

November 4, 1810.

Dost thou want me to tell thee of bygone days, how, when thy spirit was revealed to me, I gained
control over my own spirit in order the more perfectly to embrace and love thine? And why should
I not become dizzy with ecstasy? Is the prospect of a fall so fearful after all? Just as the
precious jewel, touched by a single ray of light, reflects a thousand colors, so also thy beauty,
illumined only by the ray of my enthusiasm, will be enriched a thousandfold.

It is only when everything is comprehended that the Something can prove its full worth, and
so thou wilt understand when I tell thee that the bed in which thy mother brought thee into
the world had blue checkered hangings. She was eighteen years old at the time, and had been
married a year. In this connection she remarked that thou wouldst remain forever young and
that thy heart would never grow old, since thou hadst received thy mother's youth into the
bargain. Thou didst ponder the matter for three days before thou didst decide to come into
the world, and thy mother was in great pain. Angry that necessity had driven thee from thy
nature-abode and because of the bungling of the nurse, thou didst arrive quite black and with
no signs of life. They laid thee in a so-called butcher's tray and bathed thee in wine, quite
despairing of thy life. Thy grandmother stood behind the bed, and when thou didst open thine
eyes she cried out, "Frau Rat, he lives!" "Then my maternal heart awoke and it has lived in
unceasing enthusiasm to this very hour," said thy mother to me in her seventy-fifth year. Thy
grandfather, one of the most honored citizens of Frankfurt and at that time syndic, always
applied good as well as bad fortune to the welfare of the city, and so thy difficult birth
resulted in an accoucher being appointed for the poor. "Even in his cradle he was a blessing
to mankind," said thy mother. She gave thee her breast but thou couldst not be induced to take
nourishment, and so a nurse was procured for thee. "Since he drank from her with such appetite
and comfort and we discovered that I had no milk," she said, "we soon noticed that he was wiser
than all of us when he wouldn't take nourishment from me."

Now that thou art born at last I can pause a little; now that thou art in the world, each moment
is dear enough to me to linger over it, and I have no desire to call up the second moment,
since it will drive me away from the first. "Where'er thou art are love and goodness, where'er
thou art is nature too." Now I shall wait till thou writest me again, "Pray go on with thy
story." Then I shall first ask, "Well, where did we leave off?" and then I shall tell thee
of thy grandparents, thy dreams, thy beauty, pride, love, etc. Amen.

"Frau Rat, he lives!" These words always thrilled me through and through whenever thy mother
uttered them in exultant tones. Of thy birth we may well say:

  The sword that threatens danger
    Hangs often by a thread;
  But the blessing of eternity
    On us one gracious glance may shed.

Extract from a letter written in 1822, ten years after the breach in their relations.

To give perfect expression to thee would probably be the most powerful seal of my love, indeed,
being a creation of divine nature, it would prove my affinity to thee. It would be an enigma
solved, like unto a long restrained mountain torrent which at last penetrates to the light,
enduring the tremendous fall in voluptuous rapture, at a moment of life through which and after
which a higher existence begins.

Thou destroyer, who hast taken my free will from me; thou creator, who hast produced within
me the sensation of awakening, who hast convulsed me with a thousand electric sparks from the
realm of sacred nature! Through thee I learned to love the curling of the tender vine, and
the tears of my longing have fallen on its frost-kissed fruits; for thy sake I have kissed
the young grass, for thy sake offered my open bosom to the dew; for thy sake I have listened
intently when the butterfly and the bee swarmed about me, for I wanted to feel thee in the
sacred sphere of thy enjoyments. Oh, thou; toy in disguise with thy beloved--could I help,
after I had divined thy secret, becoming intoxicated with love for thee?

Canst thou divine the thrills that shook me when the trees poured down their fragrance and
their blossoms upon me? For I thought and felt and firmly believed that it was thy caressing
of nature, thy enjoyment of her beauty, that it was her yearning, her surrender to thee, that
loosened these blossoms from their trembling boughs and sent them gently whirling into my lap.

BETTINA.

IMMERMANN AND HIS DRAMA "MERLIN"

BY MARTIN SCHÜTZE, PH.D. Associate Professor of German Literature, University of Chicago

Karl Lebrecht Immermann was born in Magdeburg, in April, 1796. His father, who held a good
position in the Civil Service, was a very severe and domineering man; his mother, imaginative
and over-indulgent. Karl's childhood and early youth were uneventful. After passing through
the regular course of preparatory education in a "Gymnasium," he entered, in 1813, the University
of Halle. During his first year there, Germany rose up to throw off the yoke of Napoleon, and
the King of Prussia issued a proclamation calling the nation to arms, to which the people responded
with unprecedented unanimity and enthusiasm. Schoolboys and bearded men, laborers and professional
men, merchants and soldiers, united in one patriotic purpose. The regular army was everywhere
supplemented by volunteer organizations. An epoch began which in its enthusiasm, its idealism,
the force and richness of its inspiration, and its overwhelming impetus deserved, more than
any other in modern history, its title: "The Spring of Nations."

Immermann's sensitive and responsive nature thrilled with the general impulse, and he asked
his father to let him join the army, but was told, peremptorily, not to interrupt the first
year of his studies. He submitted, and plunged into the study of the literature of the Romanticists,
which, in its remoteness from actuality, offered distraction from his disappointment. During
this time he fell ill of typhoid fever, from which he did not fully recover until the campaign
had victoriously ended in the battle of Leipzig. He joined, however, after Napoleon's escape
from Elba, the second campaign, in which he took part in two battles. At the end of the war,
having retired as an officer of the reserves, he returned to Halle to finish his study of the law.

He found a new spirit dominant among the students. This spirit, characterized by a strongly
democratic desire for national unity, pride of race, and impatience with external and conventional
restraints, had a rich network of roots in the immediate past: in the individualism and the
humanism of the Storm and Stress Movement and the Classic Era of the eighteenth century; in
the subjective idealism of the Romantic school; in the nationalism of Klopstock, Herder, Schiller,
and Fichte, and in the self-reliant transcendentalism of Kant's philosophy and Schleiermacher's
theology. This spirit had received its political direction principally through the genius of
the Baron von Stein, the Prussian statesman, whose aim was the restoration of German national
unity. He believed that the political unity of Germany must rest on the soundness of the common
people, rather than on the pretensions of the aristocracy whose corruption he held responsible
for the decadence of the nation. Following the example of Frederick the Great, he tried to
foster the simple virtues of the common man. He was, however, opposed to radicalism, seeing
permanent progress only in order, self-discipline, and moderation. His leading idea, which
was shared by such men as Scharnhorst, Gneisenau, Niebuhr, and others, was that the principal
task of the time was to arouse the whole nation to independent political thinking and activity,
in order to develop self-confidence, courage, and devotion to a great unselfish ideal. These
ideas became a national ideal, an active passion, under the pressure and stress of the Napoleonic
usurpation and in the heat and fervor of war and victory.

It was unavoidable that this spirit produced among the younger men, and especially among the
university students, traditionally unaccustomed to patience with restraints, many excesses,
absurdities and follies. An extreme and tyrannical nativism, a tasteless archaism in dress,
manner, and speech, an intolerant and aggressive democratic propaganda offended and bullied
the more conservative. This spirit spread particularly through the agencies of the student
fraternities called "Burschenschaften," and the athletic associations, the "Turners," advocated
and fostered by Jahn.

Immermann became the mouthpiece of the conservatives among the students, and he went so far
as to publish some pamphlets denouncing specific acts of violence of the leading radical fraternity,
the "Teutonia." When the university authorities, who to a considerable extent sympathized with
the radicals, neglected to act, Immermann addressed a complaint to the King. This move resulted
in the dissolution of the accused fraternity and in governmental hostility to all fraternities,
and brought the hatred and contempt of the radicals on Immermann.

Immermann acted undoubtedly from sincere motives, yet deserved much of the condemnation he
suffered. He had not sufficient vision to penetrate through the objectionable and tasteless
externalities of the liberal movement--with which he was unfairly preoccupied even at the time
of Die Epigonen, a score of years later--to the greater and enduring core of the aspirations
of the modern age. The petty things were too near to his eye and obscured the greater things
which were further removed. He thought he upheld a higher principle of morality by applying
the principles of von Stein to a new situation; but be failed to see the new, larger morality
imbedded in much confusion. History has reversed his judgment.

After completing his studies he received a government appointment in the provincial capital
of Westphalia, Muenster. Here, in this conservative old town, began one of the most extraordinary
relations between man and woman in modern German literary history. Immermann fell in love with
Countess Elisa von Luetzow-Ahlefeldt, wife of the famous old commander of volunteers, Brigadier-General
von Luetzow. Elisa, an extremely gifted and spirited woman, had formed a circle of interesting
people, in which her husband, a dashing soldier but a man of uninteresting mentality, played
a very subordinate part. Immermann and Elisa struggled along against the tyranny of the affinity
that drew them together. Immermann wrote a number of dramas, highly romantic, in which the
passion and strife within him found varied expression. The play which made him known beyond
his immediate circle, was Cardenio and Celinde, the conflict of which was suggested by his own.

Elisa was finally divorced from Luetzow. Immermann was appointed a judge in Magdeburg, and
later in Duesseldorf. He asked Elisa to marry him. She refused, but offered to live with him
in free companionship. They joined their lives, pledging themselves not to enter other relations.
They remained together until 1839, less than a year before Immermann's death, when he married
a young girl of nineteen. Elisa left his house in sorrow and bitterness. Immermann characterized
his relation to her thus in a letter to his fiancée, in 1839: "I loved the countess deeply
and purely when I was kindled by her flame. But she took such a strange position toward me
that I never could have a pure, genuine, enduring joy in this love. There were delights, but
no quiet gladness. I always felt as if a splendid comet had appeared on the horizon, but never
as if the dear warm God's sun had risen."

His life with Elisa in Duesseldorf was rich in friends and works. The sculptor Schadow, the
founder of the art school there, the dramatists von Uechtritz and Michael Beer, brother of
Meyerbeer, were among his friends. He had intimate relations with Mendelssohn during the years
of the latter's stay in Duesseldorf. He tried to assist Grabbe, the erratic and unfortunate
dramatist. During three years he was manager of the Duesseldorf theatre, trying many valuable
and idealistic experiments. He died August 25, 1840.

The most important of his works are Das Trauerspiel in Tirol, 1826, treating of the tragic
story of Andreas Hofer; Kaiser Friedrich II., 1827, a drama of the Hohenstaufen; the comic
heroic epic, Tulifaentchen, 1830, a satiric version of an heroic Tom Thumb; Alexis, 1832, a
trilogy setting forth the destruction of the reforms begun by Peter the Great; Merlin, 1832;
and his two novels, Die Epigonen, 1836, and Münchhausen, 1838-9.

In Die Epigonen, one of the long list of representatives of the species of novels which began
with Goethe's Wilhelm Meister, Immermann tried to present the development of a young man and
a picture of the principal social forces of his period. But he was too imitative in following
his great model, and too much confused by subjective preoccupations, to comprehend and to state
clearly the substance of the matter.

Only two of his works have enduring value, his mystical tragedy Merlin, and the part of Münchhausen
called "Der Oberhof" (The Upper Farm), which deals with the lives and types of the small freehold
farmers. Immermann, following Baron von Stein, believed that the health and future of society,
endangered by the corrupt and dissipated nobility, rested, on the sturdy, self-reliant, individualistic
yet severely moral and patriotic, small peasant. In the main character of the story, the rugged,
proud, inflexibly honorable old farmer, who has inherited the sword of Charles the Great, he
has drawn one of the most living characters in early modern German fiction. The other figures,
too, are full of life and reality. The story has, aside from its importance in the history
of the German novel, an enduring value of its own.

Immermann, in spite of his unremitting endeavor, failed to attain literary or moral greatness.
He lacked the fundamental and organic unity of great natures. He had more qualities of mind
than most of his important contemporaries, but in not one of these qualities did he attain
to the degree which assures distinction. In his Merlin he treated a conflict which was fundamentally
similar to that of Grillparzer's Libussa. Yet Grillparzer, much more one-sided than he, possessed
the true Romantic-mystic quality, whereas Immermann had to elaborate his symbolism with the
patchwork of careful, allegoric analysis. He had a richer contact with social forces than Heine,
yet his realizations of them were awkward and meagre, his humor wooden, his imagery derived.
He had much greater intellectual force than Platen, yet he lacked the incisive and controlled
critical sense of the latter. Having no one faculty to a distinguished degree, he constantly
had to substitute the strained labor of one faculty for the spontaneous production of another.
Predominantly rationalistic, he labored at the symbolistic vision of Romanticism; preëminently
a man of prose, he endeavored all his life to be a great poet. He mistook the responsive excitement
produced by the ideas and visions of others for authentic inspiration, the vivacity of a sociable
and conversational gift for the creative force of genius, and the immobility of obvious and
established conventional judgments for an extraordinary soundness and incisiveness of fundamental
analysis.

There was in him, as he himself once said, a certain "aftertaste of a worthy philistinism."
The dominant bent of his mind was toward the immediate actualities, and this bent in the end,
as in his antagonism against the radical students in Halle, always overcame his endeavor to
grasp the more remote realities of a larger vision.

The purposes of his literary works, like the beginning and purpose of his intimacy with Elisa,
are always large, comprehensive, and idealistic, but they always, even in his most important
work, Merlin, dwindle to petty details of actuality. His significance for the present age does
not so much rest on his objective achievement, as on some of his qualities which prevented
achievement. He was perhaps the most considerable representative of the literary "Epigones"
intervening between the esthetic individualistic humanism of the eighteenth, and the economic-coöperative
humanism of the nineteenth century. He, more fully perhaps than any of his contemporaries,
represented the peculiar border-type of literary personality which is both compounded and torn
asunder by all the principal conflicting forces of a period of historic transition. He was
a victim of the manifold division of impulses, the ill-related patchwork of impressions, and
the disconcerting refractions of vision, which characterized his contemporaries. It is in the
fact that he united in himself the principal factors which made up the complexion of his age,
to an extraordinary degree, that he has his strongest claim upon the sympathetic and studious
interest of the modern age.

MERLIN: A MYTH

The principal dramatic agencies in Merlin are Satan, Klingsor, Titurel, King Artus and his
Round Table, Niniana, and Merlin. In them, Immermann tried to embody the dominant moral and
intellectual tendencies, as he saw them in history and his own times. Satan, the demiurgos,
is to him no theological devil, but a princely character, the "Lord of Necessity," the non-moral,
irresistible, cosmic force of physical creation. He demands, expressing the faith of Young-Germany:

  "O! naked bodies, insolent art,
  O! wrath of heroes, and heroic voice!"

The pride of life in him and in Lucifer, who personifies the creative fire, is aroused against
the narrow asceticism of orthodox Christianity, embodied in the wan and feeble Titurel. Satan
decides to imitate the Lord of Christianity, by begetting upon a virgin, Candida, a son who
is to save the world from the sterility of asceticism. Candida is briefly introduced, acknowledging
the power of the mighty spirit and bewailing her fate in one of the finest passages in the
play. Merlin is born, combining the supernatural creative powers of his father with the tenderness
and sympathy of his mother. His purpose is to reconcile the true principles of primitive Christianity
with the natural impulses of life. Merlin thus is opposed to his father as well as to Titurel
and his dull and narrow "guild" who keep the true spirit of humanity captive. He is both anti-Satan
and anti-Christ.

He next comes into conflict with the third fundamental force, Klingsor. The latter is really
only a variant of Satan and, while interesting, is somewhat less fundamental, being more a
philosophic and literary, than an active, antagonist. His symbol is the circled serpent, the
embodiment of permanence within the changing world of actuality. He represents the nature-philosophy
of Romanticism and especially of Schelling, a philosophy so vast and unsubstantial that all
values of conduct and all incentives to action disappeared in its featureless abyss. Immermann
intensely disliked it. He was, as he said, a lover of men; the worship of nature drained and
exhausted the sympathies, the wills and the spirits of men. The passages in which Klingsor
himself, in his moments of despair, and Merlin expose the emptiness of this philosophy, are
among the best philosophic statements of the play. They are, how ever, too exhaustive. But
they are good philosophy, if they are bad drama and poetry. Klingsor says of the "nature book"

"It asserts: all is vain; nought but stale mediocrity--while we are shaken from, shell to core
by the breath of the times." He is worshipped by the dwarfs because he has opened the mysteries
of inanimate nature, and he commands the spirits of classical life represented by Antinous,
and the pagan' gods and demi-gods, the personifications of the naïve impulses of nature. But
he realizes that his wisdom, while it makes dwarfs happy, is inadequate for human beings.

The teaching of Merlin is essentially the humanism of the moderate liberalism of Baron von
Stein and his followers. Klingsor, voicing the sentiments of Romantic aristocratism, accuses him:

"You tell the mob: Be your own Savior; seek inspiration in your own work. The people like to
be told of their majesty. Keep on bravely lying, sweetly flattering, and the prophet is complete."

Merlin retorts:

"You describe yourself, not me. Men have a deep sense of truth, and pay in false coin only
him that offers them false gifts." He then continues, lashing the transcendent egotism of the
Romantic conception of man in the universe: "To you the earth, the ocean, the firmament, are
nothing but a ladder for your own elevation, and you must absolutely reject the thing called
humility. In order to maintain yourself strong and whole you have to find men weak and only
partial beings," etc. Later, in lines 1637ff., he proceeds, in what are probably the finest
and richest passages in the work, to state his own purpose of combining all that is great,
true, beautiful, human, and noble, into one comprehensive and rational faith of humanity.

Merlin tries to teach his faith to King Artus and his circle, who embody the frivolous, irresponsible,
though refined, conduct of the nobility, essentially the same nobility whom von Stein accused
of injuring the nation and Immermann satirized and exposed in Münchhausen. They decide to seek
salvation in the primitive idealism of India, appointing Merlin their guide. Merlin, however,
succumbs to the silly Niniana, the personification of wanton desire. She makes him tell her
a fated word, after promising not to repeat it. She thoughtlessly repeats it. He now loses
his superhuman power, i. e., the power of absolute spiritual integrity, and becomes subject
to the limitations of earth, like a common man. He can no longer lead Artus and his court,
who perish of their own spiritual vacuity.

The end of the play is unsatisfactory. The hero's surrender to the lust of the flesh, undoubtedly
suggested by Goethe's Faust and consistent in Goethe's poem, is foreign to the conflict of
this play, which, not being human, as is that of Faust, but an abstract antagonism of general
historic principles, should have been solved without the interference of the mere creature
weaknesses of the hero and the mere creature sympathies of the reader. Immermann planned to
untie the knot in a second part, which was to treat of the salvation of Merlin; but he never
carried his purpose beyond a few slight introductory passages.

IMMERMANN'S "MÜNCHHAUSEN"

BY ALLEN WILSON PORTERFIELD, PH.D. Instructor in German, Columbia University

Immermann first thought of writing a new Münchhausen in 1821, the year of his satirical comedy,
The Princes of Syracuse, which contains the embryonic idea of this "history in arabesques."
Conscientious performance of his duties as a judge and incessant activity as a writer along
other lines forced the idea into the background until 1830, the year of his satirical epic,
Tulifäntchen, in which the theme again received attention. In 1835 he finished Die Epigonen,
a novel portraying the social and political conditions in Germany from 1815 to 1830, and in
1837 he began systematic work on Münchhausen, continuing, from a different point of view and
in a different mood, his delineation of the civic and intellectual status of Germany of his
own time. The last part of the entire work was published in 1839, having occupied, intermittently,
eighteen of his twenty years of literary productivity. The first edition was exhausted one
year after publication, a second appeared in 1841, a third in 1854, and since 1857 there have
been many of all kinds, ranging from the popular "Reclam" to critical editions with all the
helps and devices known to modern scholarship.

In so far as the just appreciation of a literary production is dependent upon a study of its
genesis, the reading of Die Epigonen is necessary to a complete understanding of Münchhausen,
for through these two works runs a strong thread of unbroken development. Hermann, the immature
hero of the former, and his associates, bequeath a number of characteristics to the title-hero
and his associates of the latter; but where the earlier work is predominantly sarcastic, political,
and pessimistic, the later one is humorous, intellectual, and optimistic. It would seem, therefore,
that, in view of its bright outlook, mature view, and sympathetic treatment, Immermann's greatest
epic in prose was destined to be read in its entirety, frequently, and with pleasure.

