ON
                      THE INDIAN SECT
                            OF
                        THE JAINAS

                              BY
        JOHANN GEORG BÜHLER C.I.E., LLD., PH.D.
 Member of the Imperial Academy of Sciences, Vienna.

            TRANSLATED FROM THE GERMAN.

    EDITED with an OUTLINE of JAINA MYTHOLOGY

                              BY
       JAS. BURGESS, C.I.E., LL.D., F.R.S.E.

                             1903.

PREFACE.

       *       *       *       *       *

The late Dr. Georg Bühler's essay Ueber die Indische Secte der Jaina, read at the anniversary
meeting of the Imperial Academy of Sciences of Vienna on the 26th May 1887, has been for some
time out of print in the separate form. Its value as a succinct account of the Śrâvaka sect,
by a scholar conversant with them and their religious literature is well known to European
scholars; but to nearly all educated natives of India works published in German and other continental
languages are practically sealed books, and thus the fresh information which they are well
able to contribute is not elicited. It is hoped that the translation of this small work may
meet with their acceptance and that of Europeans in India and elsewhere to whom the original
is either unknown or who do not find a foreign language so easy to read as their own.

The translation has been prepared under my supervision, and with a few short footnotes. Professor
Bühler's long note on the authenticity of the Jaina tradition I have transferred to an appendix
(p. 48) incorporating with it a summary of what he subsequently expanded in proof of his thesis.

To Colebrooke's account of the Tirthaṅkaras reverenced by the Jainas, but little has been added
since its publication in the ninth volume of the Asiatic Researches; and as these are the centre
of their worship, always represented in their temples, and surrounded by attendant figures,—I
have ventured to add a somewhat fuller account of them and a summary of the general mythology
of the sect, which may be useful to the archaeologist and the student of their iconography.

  Edinburgh, April 1903.  J. BURGESS.

CONTENTS.

THE INDIAN SECT OF THE JAINAS, by Dr. J. G. BÜHLER.

Appendix:—Epigraphic testimony to the continuity of the Jaina tradition

SKETCH OF JAINA MYTHOLOGY, by J. BURGESS.

THE INDIAN SECT OF THE JAINAS.

The Jaina sect is a religious society of modern India, at variance to Brahmanism, and possesses
undoubted claims on the interest of all friends of Indian history. This claim is based partly
on the peculiarities of their doctrines and customs, which present several resemblances to
those of Buddhism, but, above all, on the fact that it was founded in the same period as the
latter.

Larger and smaller communities of Jainas or Arhata,—that is followers of the prophet, who is
generally called simply the Jina—'the conqueror of the world',—or the Arhat—'the holy one',—are
to be found in almost every important Indian town, particularly among the merchant class. In
some provinces of the West and North-west, in Gujarât, Râjputâna, and the Panjâb, as also in
the Dravidian districts in the south,—especially in Kanara,—they are numerous; and, owing to
the influence of their wealth, they take a prominent place. They do not, however, present a
compact mass, but are divided into two rival branches—the Digambara and Śvetâmbara [Footnote:
In notes on the Jainas, one often finds the view expressed, that the Digambaras belong only
to the south, and the Śvetâmbaras to the north. This is by no means the case. The former in
the Panjâb, in eastern Râjputâna and in the North West Provinces, are just as numerous, if
not more so, than the latter, and also appear here and there in western Râjputâna and Gujarât:
see Indian Antiquary, vol. VII, p. 28.]—each of which is split up into several subdivisions.
The Digambara, that is, "those whose robe is the atmosphere," owe their name to the circumstance
that they regard absolute nudity as the indispensable sign of holiness, [Footnote: The ascetics
of lower rank, now called Paṇḍit, now-a-days wear the costume of the country. The Bhaṭṭâraka,
the heads of the sect, usually wrap themselves in a large cloth (chadr). They lay it off during
meals. A disciple then rings a bell as a sign that entrance is forbidden (Ind. Ant. loc. cit.).
When the present custom first arose cannot be ascertained. From the description of the Chinese
pilgrim Hiuen Tsiang (St. Julien, Vie. p. 224), who calls them Li-hi, it appears that they
were still faithful to their principles in the beginning of the seventh century A.D. "The Li-hi
(Nirgranthis) distinguish themselves by leaving their bodies naked and pulling out their hair.
Their skin is all cracked, their feet are hard and chapped: like rotting trees that one sees
near rivers."]—though the advance of civilization has compelled them to depart from the practice
of their theory. The Śvetâmbara, that is, "they who are clothed in white"—do not claim this
doctrine, but hold it as possible that the holy ones, who clothe themselves, may also attain
the highest goal. They allow, however, that the founder of the Jaina religion and his first
disciples disdained to wear clothes. They are divided, not only by this quarrel, but also by
differences about dogmas and by a different literature. The separation must therefore be of
old standing. Tradition, too, upholds this—though the dates given do not coincide. From inscriptions
it is certain that the split occurred before the first century of our era. [Footnote: See below
p. 44.] Their opposing opinions are manifested in the fact that they do not allow each other
the right of intermarriage or of eating at the same table,—the two chief marks of social equality.
In spite of the age of the schism, and the enmity that divides the two branches, they are at
one as regards the arrangement of their communities, doctrine, discipline, and cult,—at least
in the more important points; and, thus, one can always speak of the Jaina religion as a whole.

The characteristic feature of this religion is its claim to universality, which it holds in
common with Buddhism, and in opposition to Brahmanism. It also declares its object to be to
lead all men to salvation, and to open its arms—not only to the noble Aryan, but also to the
low-born Śûdra and even to the alien, deeply despised in India, the Mlechcha. [Footnote: In
the stereotyped introductions to the sermons of Jina it is always pointed out that they are
addressed to the Aryan and non-Aryan. Thus in the Aupapâtika Sûtra § 56. (Leumann) it runs
as follows: tesiṁ savvesiṁ âṛiyamanâriyanaṁ agilâe dhammatṁ âikkhai "to all these, Aryans and
non-Aryans, he taught the law untiringly". In accordance with this principle, conversions of
people of low caste, such as gardeners, dyers, etc., are not uncommon even at the present day.
Muhammadans too, regarded as Mlechcha, are still received among the Jaina communities. Some
cases of the kind were communicated to me in Aḥmadâbâd in the year 1876, as great triumphs
of the Jainas. Tales of the conversion of the emperor Akbar, through the patriarch Hîravijaya
(Ind. Antiq. Vol. XI, p. 256), and of the spread of the Digambara sect in an island Jainabhadri,
in the Indian Ocean (Ind. Ant. Vol. VII, p. 28) and in Arabia, shew that the Jainas are familiar
with the idea of the conversion of non-Indians. Hiuen Tsiang's note on the appearance of the
Nirgrantha or Digambara in Kiapishi (Beal, Si-yu-ki, Vol. I, p. 55), points apparently to the
fact that they had, in the North West at least, spread their missionary activity beyond the
borders of India.] As their doctrine, like Buddha's, is originally a philosophical ethical
system intended for ascetics, the disciples, like the Buddhists, are, divided into ecclesiastics
and laity. At the head stands an order of ascetics, originally Nirgrantha "they, who are freed
from all bands," now usually called Yatis—"Ascetics", or Sâdhus—"Holy", which, among the Śvetâmbara
also admits women, [Footnote: Even the canonical works of the Śvetâmbara, as for example, the
Âchârâṅga (Sacred Books of the East, Vol. XXII, p. 88-186) contain directions for nuns. It
seems, however, that they have never played such an important part as in Buddhism. At the present
time, the few female orders among the Śvetâmbara consist entirely of virgin widows, whose husbands
have died in childhood, before the beginning of their life together. It is not necessary to
look upon the admission of nuns among the Śvetâmbara as an imitation of Buddhist teaching,
as women were received into some of the old Brahmanical orders; see my note to Manu, VIII,
363, (Sac. Bks. of the East, Vol. XXV, p. 317). Among the Digambaras, exclusion of women was
demanded from causes not far to seek. They give as their reason for it, the doctrine that women
are not capable of attaining Nirvâṇa; see Peterson, Second Report, in Jour. Bom. Br. R. As.
Soc. Vol. XVII, p. 84.] and under them the general community of the Upâsaka "the Worshippers",
or the Śrâvaka, "the hearers".

The ascetics alone are able to penetrate into the truths which Jina teaches, to follow his
rules and to attain to the highest reward which he promises. The laity, however, who do not
dedicate themselves to the search after truth, and cannot renounce the life of the world, still
find a refuge in Jainism. It is allowed to them as hearers to share its principles, and to
undertake duties, which are a faint copy of the demands made on the ascetics. Their reward
is naturally less. He who remains in the world cannot reach the highest goal, but he can still
tread the way which leads to it. Like all religions of the Hindûs founded on philosophical
speculation, Jainism sees this highest goal in Nirvâna or Moksha, the setting free of the individual
from the Saṁsâra,—the revolution of birth and death. The means of reaching it are to it, as
to Buddhism, the three Jewels—the right Faith, the right Knowledge, and the right Walk. By
the right Faith it understands the full surrender of himself to the teacher, the Jina, the
firm conviction that he alone has found the way of salvation, and only with him is protection
and refuge to be found. Ask who Jina is, and the Jaina will give exactly the same answer as
the Buddhist with respect to Buddha. He is originally an erring man, bound with the bonds of
the world, who,—not by the help of a teacher, nor by the revelation of the Vedas—which, he
declares, are corrupt—but by his own power, has attained to omniscience and freedom, and out
of pity for suffering mankind preaches and declares the way of salvation, which he has found.
Because he has conquered the world and the enemies in the human heart, he is called Jina "the
Victor", Mahâvîra, "the great hero"; because he possesses the highest knowledge, he is called
Sarvajña or Kevalin, the "omniscient", Buddha, the "enlightened"; because he has freed himself
from the world he receives the names of Mukta "the delivered one", Siddha and Tathâgata, "the
perfected", Arhat "the holy one"; and as the proclaimer of the doctrine, he is the Tîrthakara
"the finder of the ford", through the ocean of the Saṁsâra. In these epithets, applied to the
founder of their doctrine, the Jainas agree almost entirely with the Buddhists, as the likeness
of his character to that of Buddha would lead us to expect. They prefer, however, to use the
names Jina and Arhat, while the Buddhists prefer to speak of Buddha as Tathâgata or Sugata.
The title Tîrthakara is peculiar to the Jainas. Among the Buddhists it is a designation for
false teachers. [Footnote: The titles Siddha, Buddha and Mukta are certainly borrowed by both
sects from the terminology of the Brâhmaṇs, which they used, even in olden times, to describe
those saved during their lifetimes and used in the Śaivite doctrine to describe a consecrated
one who is on the way to redemption. An Arhat, among the Brâhmaṇs, is a man distinguished for
his knowledge and pious life (comp. for example Âpastamba, Dharmasûtra. I, 13, 13; II, 10,
I.) and this idea is so near that of the Buddhists and the Jainas that it may well be looked
upon as the foundation of the latter. The meaning of Tîrthakara "prophet, founder of religion",
is derived from the Brâhmanic use of tîrtha in the sense of "doctrine". Comp. also H. Jacobi's
Article on the Title of Buddha and Jina, Sac. Books of the East. Vol. XXII, pp. xix, xx.]

The Jaina says further, however, that there was more than one Jina. Four and twenty have, at
long intervals, appeared and have again and again restored to their original purity the doctrines
darkened by evil influences. They all spring from noble, warlike tribes. Only in such, not
among the low Brâhmaṇs, can a Jina see the light of the world. The first Jina Ṛi̐shabha,—more
than 100 billion oceans of years ago,—periods of unimaginable length, [Footnote: A Sâgara or
Sâgaropamâ of years is == 100,000,000,000,000 Palya or Palyopama. A Palya is a period in which
a well, of one or, according to some, a hundred yojana, i.e. of one or a hundred geographical
square miles, stuffed full of fine hairs, can be emptied, if one hair is pulled out every hundred
years: Wilson, Select. Works, Vol. I, p. 309; Colebrooke, Essays, Vol. II, p. 194. ed. Cowell.]—was
born as the son of a king of Ayodhyâ and lived eight million four hundred thousand years. The
intervals between his successors and the durations of their lives became shorter and shorter.
Between the twenty third, Pârśva and the twenty fourth Vardhamâna, were only 250 years, and
the age of the latter is given as only seventy-two years. He appeared, according to some, in
the last half of the sixth century, according to others in the first half of the fifth century
B.C. He is of course the true, historical prophet of the Jainas and it is in his doctrine,
that the Jainas should believe. The dating back of the origin of the Jaina religion again,
agrees with the pretensions of the Buddhists, who recognise twenty-five Buddhas who taught
the same system one after the other. Even with Brahmanism, it seems to be in some distant manner
connected, for the latter teaches in its cosmogony, the successive appearance of Demiurges,
and wise men—the fourteen Manus, who, at various periods helped to complete the work of creation
and proclaimed the Brahmanical law. These Brahmanical ideas may possibly have given rise to
the doctrines of the twenty-five Buddhas and twenty-four Jinas, [Footnote: For the list of
these Jinas, see below.] which, certainly, are later additions in both systems.

The undoubted and absolutely correct comprehension of the nine truths which the Jina gives
expression to, or of the philosophical system which the Jina taught, represents the second
Jewel—the true Knowledge. Its principal features are shortly as follows. [Footnote: More complete
representations are to be found in Colebrooke's Misc. Essays. Vol. I, pp. 404, 413, with Cowell's
Appendix p. 444-452; Vol. II, pp. 194, 196, 198-201; H. H. Wilson's Select Works, Vol. I, pp.
297-302, 305-317; J. Stevenson, Kalpasûtra, pp. xix-xxv; A. Barth, Religions de l'Inde, pp. 84-91.]

The world (by which we are to understand, not only the visible, but also imaginary continents
depicted with the most extravagant fancy, heavens and hells of the Brahmanical Cosmology, extended
by new discoveries) is uncreated. It exists, without ruler, only by the power of its elements,
and is everlasting. The elements of the world are six substances—souls, Dharma or moral merit,
Adharma or sin, space, time, particles of matter. From the union of the latter spring four
elements—earth, fire, water, wind—and further, bodies and all other appearances of the world
of sense and of the supernatural worlds. The forms of the appearances are mostly unchangeable.
Only the bodies of men and their age increase or decrease in consequence of the greater or
less influence of sin or merit, during immeasurably long periods,—the Avasarpiṇi and the Utsarpiṇi.
Souls are, each by itself, independent, real existences whose foundation is pure intelligence,
and who possess an impulse to action. In the world they are always chained to bodies. The reason
of this confinement is that they give themselves up to the stress of activity, to passions,
to influences of the senses and objects of the mind, or attach themselves to a false belief.
The deeds which they perform in the bodies are Karman, merit and sin. This drives them—when
one body has passed away, according to the conditions of its existence—into another, whose
quality depends on the character of the Karman, and will be determined especially by the last
thoughts springing from it before death. Virtue leads to the heavens of the gods or to birth
among men in pure and noble races. Sin consigns the souls to the lower regions, in the bodies
of animals, in plants, even into masses of lifeless matter. For—according to the Jaina doctrine—souls
exist not only in organic structures, but also in apparently dead masses, in stones, in lumps
of earth, in drops of water, in fire and in wind. Through union with bodies the nature of the
soul is affected. In the mass of matter the light of its intelligence is completely concealed;
it loses consciousness, is immovable, and large or small, according to the dimensions of its
abode. In organic structures it is always conscious; it depends however, on the nature of the
same, whether it is movable or immovable and possessed of five, four, three, two, or one organ
of sense.

The bondage of souls, if they inhabit a human body, can be abolished by the suppression of
the causes which lead to their confinement and by the destruction of the Karman. The suppression
of the causes is accomplished by overcoming the inclination to be active and the passions,
by the control of the senses, and by steadfastly holding to the right faith. In this way will
be hindered the addition of new Karman, new merit or new guilt. The destruction of Karman remaining
from previous existences can be brought about either spontaneously by the exhaustion of the
supply or by asceticism. In the latter case the final state is the attainment to a knowledge
which penetrates the universe, to Kevala, Jñâna and Nirvâṇa or Moksha: full deliverance from
all bonds. These goals may be reached even while the soul is still in its body. If however
the body is destroyed then the soul wanders into the "No-World" (alôka) as the Jain says, i.e.
into the heaven of Jina 'the delivered', lying outside the world. [Footnote: On the Jaina Paradise
see below. Dr. Bühler seems here to have confounded the Alôka or Non-world, 'the space where
only things without life are found', with the heaven of the Siddhas; but these are living beings
who have crossed the boundary] There it continues eternally in its pure intellectual nature.
Its condition is that of perfect rest which nothing disturbs. These fundamental ideas are carried
out in the particulars with a subtilness and fantasy unexampled, even in subtile and fantastic
India, in a scholarly style, and defended by the syâdvâda—the doctrine of "It may be so",—a
mode of reasoning which makes it possible to assert and deny the existence of one and the same
thing. If this be compared with the other Indian systems, it stands nearer the Brâhmaṇ than
the Buddhist, with which it has the acceptance in common of only four, not five elements. Jainism
touches all the Brâhmaṇ religions and Buddhism in its cosmology and ideas of periods, and it
agrees entirely with regard to the doctrines of Karman, of the bondage, and the deliverance
of souls. Atheism, the view that the world was not created, is common to it with Buddhism and
the Sâṅkhya philosophy. Its psychology approaches that of the latter in that both believe in
the existence of innumerable independent souls. But the doctrine of the activity of souls and
their distribution into masses of matter is in accordance with the Vedânta, according to which
the principle of the soul penetrates every thing existing. In the further development of the
soul doctrine, the conceptions 'individual soul' and 'living being' to which the Jaina and
the Brâhmaṇ give the same name,—jîva, seem to become confounded. The Jaina idea of space and
time as real substances is also found in the Vaiśeshika system. In placing Dharma and Adharma
among substances Jainism stands alone.

The third jewel, the right Walk which the Jaina ethics contains, has its kernel in the five
great oaths which the Jaina ascetic takes on his entrance into the order. He promises, just
as the Brâhmaṇ penitent, and almost in the same words, not to hurt, not to speak untruth, to
appropriate nothing to himself without permission, to preserve chastity, and to practice self-sacrifice.
The contents of these simple rules become most extraordinarily extended on the part of the
Jainas by the insertion of five clauses, in each of which are three separate active instruments
of sin, in special relation to thoughts, words, and deeds. In like manner the rule of sacrifice
means not only that the ascetic has no house or possessions, it teaches also that a complete
unconcern toward agreeable and disagreeable impressions is necessary, as also the sacrifice
of every attachment to anything living or dead. [Footnote: On the five great vows see the Âchârâṅga
Sûtra, II, 15: S.B.E. Vol. XXII, pp. 202-210. The Sanskrit terms of the Jains are: 1. ahiṁsâ,
2. sûnrita, 3. asteya, 4. brahmâchârya, 5. aparigraha; those of the Brahmanical ascetics: 1.
ahiṁsa, 2. satya, 3. asteya, 4. brahmâchârya, 5. tyâga.]

Beside the conscientious observance of these rules, Tapas—Asceticism, is most important for
the right walk of those, who strive to attain Nirvâṇa. Asceticism is inward as well as outward.
The former is concerned with self-discipline, the cleansing and purifying of the mind. It embraces
repentance of sin, confession of the same to the teacher, and penance done for it, humility
before teachers and all virtuous ones, and the service of the same, the study and teaching
of the faith or holy writing, pious meditations on the misery of the world, the impurity of
the body, etc. and lastly, the stripping off of every thing pertaining to the world. On the
other hand, under the head of exterior Asceticism, the Jaina understands temperance, begging,
giving up all savoury food, different kinds of self-mortification such as sitting in unnatural
and wearying positions, hindering the action of the organs, especially by fasts, which, under
certain circumstances may be continued to starvation. Voluntary death by the withdrawal of
nourishment is, according to the strict doctrine of the Digambara, necessary for all ascetics,
who have reached the highest step of knowledge. The Kevalin, they say, eats no longer. The
milder Śvetâmbara do not demand this absolutely, but regard it, as a sure entrance to Nirvâṇa.
In order, however, that this death may bear its fruits, the ascetic must keep closely to the
directions for it, otherwise he merely lengthens the number of rebirths. [Footnote: With reference
to asceticism, comp. Leumann, Aupapâtika Sûtra § 30. The death of the wise ones by starvation
is described, Weber, Bhagavatî Sûtra, II, 266-267; Hoernle Upâsakadaśa Sûtra, pp. 44-62; Âchârâṅga
Sûtra, in S.B.E. Vol. XXII, pp. 70-73. Among the Digambara the heads of schools still, as a
rule, fall victims to this fate. Even among the Śvetâmbara, cases of this kind occur, see K.
Forbes, Râs Mâlâ, Vol. II, pp. 331-332, or 2nd ed. pp. 610-611.]

From these general rules follow numerous special ones, regarding the life of the disciple of
Jina. The duty of sacrifice forces him, on entrance into the order, to give up his possessions
and wander homeless in strange lands, alms-vessel in hand, and, if no other duty interferes,
never to stay longer than one night in the same place. The rule of wounding nothing means that
he must carry three articles with him, a straining cloth, for his drinking water, a broom,
and a veil before his mouth, in order to avoid killing insects. It also commands him to avoid
all cleansing and washing, and to rest in the four months of the rainy season, in which animal
and plant life displays itself most abundantly. In order to practice asceticism, it is the
rule to make this time of rest a period of strictest fasts, most diligent study of the holy
writings, and deepest meditation. This duty also necessitates the ascetic to pluck out in the
most painful manner his hair which, according to oriental custom, he must do away with at his
consecration—a peculiar custom of the Jainas, which is not found among other penitents of India.

Like the five great vows, most of the special directions for the discipline of the Jain ascetic
are copies, and often exaggerated copies, of the Brâhmanic rules for penitents. The outward
marks of the order closely resemble those of the Sannyâsin. The life of wandering during eight
months and the rest during the rainy season agree exactly; and in many other points, for example
in the use of confession, they agree with the Buddhists. They agree with Brâhmaṇs alone in
ascetic self-torture, which Buddhism rejects; and specially characteristic is the fact that
ancient Brâhmanism recommends starvation to its penitents as beneficial. [Footnote: An example
may be found in Jacobi's careful comparison of the customs of the Brâhmanic and Jaina ascetics,
in the beginning of his translation of the Âchârâṅga Sûtra, S.B.E., Vol. XXII, pp. xxi—xxix.
In relation to the death by starvation of Brahmanical hermits and Sannyâsin, see Âpastamba,
Dharmasûtra, in S.B.E. Vol. II, pp. 154, 156, where (IT, 22, 4 and II, 23, 2) it, says of the
penitents who have reached the highest grade of asceticism: "Next he shall live on water (then)
on air, then on ether".]

The doctrine of the right way for the Jaina laity differs from that for the ascetics. In place
of the five great vows appear mere echoes. He vows to avoid only serious injury to living beings,
i.e. men and animals; only the grosser forms of untruth—direct lies; only the most flagrant
forms of taking, what is not given, that is, theft and robbery. In place of the oath of chastity
there is that of conjugal fidelity. In place of that of self-denial, the promise is not greedily
to accumulate possessions and to be contented. To these copies are added seven other vows,
the miscellaneous contents of which correspond to the special directions for the discipline
of ascetics. Their object is, partly to bring the outward life of the laity into accordance
with the Jaina teaching, especially with regard to the protection of living creatures from
harm, and partly to point the heart to the highest goal. Some contain prohibitions against
certain drinks, such as spirits; or meats, such as flesh, fresh butter, honey, which cannot
be enjoyed without breaking the vow of preservation of animal life. Others limit the choice
of businesses which the laity may enter; for example, agriculture is forbidden, as it involves
the tearing up of the ground and the death of many animals, as Brâhmanism also holds. Others
have to do with mercy and charitableness, with the preserving of inward peace, or with the
necessity of neither clinging too much to life and its joys nor longing for death as the end
of suffering. To the laity, however, voluntary starvation is also recommended as meritorious.
These directions (as might be expected from the likeness of the circumstances) resemble in
many points the Buddhist directions for the laity, and indeed are often identical with regard
to the language used. Much is however specially in accordance with Brâhmanic doctrines. [Footnote:
The Upâsakadaśâ Sûtra treats of the right life of the laity, Hoernle, pp. 11-37 (Bibl. Ind.),
and Hemachandra, Yogasûtra, Prakâsa ii and iii; Windisch, Zeitschrift der Deutsch Morg. Ges.
Bd. XXVIII, pp. 226-246. Both scholars have pointed out in the notes to their translations,
the relationship between the precepts and terms, of the Jainas and Buddhists. The Jainas have
borrowed a large number of rules directly from the law books of the Brâhmaṇs. The occupations
forbidden to the Jaina laity are almost all those forbidden by the Brâhmanic law to the Brâhmaṇ,
who in time of need lives like a Vaīśya. Hemachandra, Yogaśâstra, III, 98—112 and Upâsakadaśâ
Sûtra, pp. 29-30, may be compared with Manu, X, 83-89, XI, 64 and 65, and the parallel passages
quoted in the synopsis to my translation (S.B.E. Vol. XXV).] In practical life Jainism makes
of its laity earnest men who exhibit a stronger trait of resignation than other Indians and
excel in an exceptional willingness to sacrifice anything for their religion. It makes them
also fanatics for the protection of animal life. Wherever they gain influence, there is an
end of bloody sacrifices and of slaughtering and killing the larger animals.

The union of the laity with the order of ascetics has, naturally, exercised a powerful reaction
on the former and its development, as well as on its teaching, and is followed by similar results
in Jainism and Buddhism. Then, as regards the changes in the teaching, it is no doubt to be
ascribed to the influence of the laity that the atheistic Jaina system, as well as the Buddhist,
has been endowed with a cult. The ascetic, in his striving for Nirvâṇa, endeavours to suppress
the natural desire of man to worship higher powers. In the worldly hearer, who does not strive
after this goal exclusively, this could not succeed. Since the doctrine gave no other support,
the religious feeling of the laity clung to the founder of it: Jina, and with him his mythical
predecessors, became gods. Monuments and temples ornamented with their statues were built,
especially at those places, where the prophets, according to legends, had reached their goal.
To this is added a kind of worship, consisting of offerings of flowers and incense to Jina,
of adoration by songs of praise in celebration of their entrance into Nirvâṇa, of which the
Jaina makes a great festival by solemn processions and pilgrimages to the places where it has
been attained. [Footnote: For the Jaina ritual, see Indian Antiquary. Vol. XIII, pp. 191-196.
The principal sacred places or Tirthas are—Sameta Śikhara in Western Bengal, where twenty of
the Jinas are said to have attained Nirvâṇa; Śatruñjaya and Girnâr in Kâthiâwâḍ sacred respectively
to Ṛishabhanâtha and Neminâtha; Chandrapuri where Vâsupûjya died; and Pâwâ in Bengal at which
Vardhamâna died.—Ed.] This influence of the laity has become, in course of time, of great importance
to Indian art, and India is indebted to it for a number of its most beautiful architectural
monuments, such as the splendid temples of Âbu, Girnâr and Śatruñjaya in Gujarât. It has also
brought about a change in the mind of the ascetics. In many of their hymns in honour of Jina,
they appeal to him with as much fervour as the Brâhmaṇ to his gods; and there are often expressions
in them, contrary, to the original teaching, ascribing to Jina a creative power. Indeed a Jaina
description of the six principal systems goes so far as to number Jainism—as also Buddhism—among
the theistic religions. [Footnote: The latter assertion is to be found In the Shaḍdarśanasamuchchaya
Vers. 45, 77-78. A creative activity is attributed to the Jinas even in the Kuhâon inscription
which is dated 460-461 A.D. (Ind. Antiq. Vol. X, p. 126). There they are called âdikartri the
'original creators'. The cause of the development of a worship among the Jainas was first rightly
recognised by Jacobi, S.B.E. Vol. XXII, p. xxi. The Jaina worship differs in one important
point from that of the Buddhists. It recognised no worship of relics.]

But in other respects also the admission of the laity has produced decisive changes in the
life of the clergy. In the education of worldly communities, the ascetic—whose rules of indifference
toward all and every thing, make him a being concentrated entirely upon himself and his goal—is
united again to humanity and its interests. The duty of educating the layman and watching over
his life, must of necessity change the wandering penitents into settled monks—who dedicate
themselves to the care of souls, missionary activity, and the acquisition of knowledge, and
who only now and again fulfil the duty of changing their place of residence. The needs of the
lay communities required the continual presence of teachers. Even should these desire to change
from time to time, it was yet necessary to provide a shelter for them. Thus the Upâśraya or
places of refuge, the Jaina monasteries came into existence, which exactly correspond to the
Buddhist Sanghârâma. With the monasteries and the fixed residence in them appeared a fixed
membership of the order, which, on account of the Jaina principle of unconditional obedience
toward the teacher, proved to be much stricter than in Buddhism. On the development of the
order and the leisure of monastic life, there followed further, the commencement of a literary
and scientific activity. The oldest attempt, in this respect, limited itself to bringing their
doctrine into fixed forms. Their results were, besides other lost works, the so-called Aṅga,—the
members of the body of the law, which was perhaps originally produced in the third century
B.C. Of the Aṅga eleven are no doubt preserved among the Śvetâmbaras from a late edition of
the fifth or sixth century A.D. These works are not written in Sanskrit, but in a popular Prâkrit
dialect: for the Jina, like Buddha, used the language of the people when teaching. They contain
partly legends about the prophet and his activity as a teacher, partly fragments of a doctrine
or attempts at systematic representations of the same. Though the dialect is different they
present, in the form of the tales and in the manner of expression, a wonderful resemblance
to the sacred writings of the Buddhists. [Footnote: A complete review of the Aṅga and the canonical
works which were joined to it later, is to be found in A. Weber's fundamental treatise on the
sacred writings of the Jainas in the Indische Studien, Bd. XVI, SS. 211-479 and Bd. XVIII,
SS. 1-90. The Âchâráṅga and the Kalpasûtra are translated by H. Jacobi in the S.B.E Vol. XXII,
and a part of the Upâsakadasâ Sûtra by R. Hoernle in the Bibl. Ind. In the estimates of the
age of the Aṅga I follow H. Jacobi, who has throughly discussed the question S.B.E. Vol. XXII,
pp. xxxix-xlvii.] The Digambaras, on the other hand, have preserved nothing of the Aṅga but
the names. They put in their place later systematic works, also in Prâkrit, and assert, in
vindication of their different teaching, that the canon of their rivals is corrupted. In the
further course of history, however, both branches of the Jainas have, like the Buddhists, in
their continual battles with the Brâhmaṇs, found it necessary to make themselves acquainted
with the ancient language of the culture of the latter. First the Digambara and later the Śvetâmbara
began to use Sanskrit. They did not rest content with explaining their own teaching in Sanskrit
works: they turned also to the secular sciences of the Brâhmaṇs. They have accomplished so
much of importance, in grammar, in astronomy, as well as in some branches of letters, that
they have won respect even from their enemies, and some of their works are still of importance
to European science. In southern India, where they worked among the Draviḍian tribes, they
also advanced the development of these languages. The Kanarese literary language and the Tamil
and Telugu rest on the foundations laid by the Jaina monks. This activity led them, indeed,
far from their proper goal, but it created for them an important position in the history of
literature and culture.

The resemblance between the Jainas and the Buddhists, which I have had so often cause to bring
forward, suggests the question, whether they are to be regarded as a branch of the latter,
or whether they resemble the Buddhists merely because, as their tradition asserts, [Footnote:
The later tradition of the Jainas gives for the death of their prophet the dates 545, 527 and
467 B.C. (see Jacobi, Kalpasûtra introd. pp. vii—ix and xxx). None of the sources in which
these announcements appear are older than the twelfth century A.D. The latest is found in Hemachandra
who died in the year 1172 A.D. The last is certainly false if the assertion, accepted by most
authorities, that Buddha's death falls between the years 482 and 472 B.C. is correct. For the
Buddhist tradition maintains that the last Jaina Tîrhakara died during Buddha's lifetime (see
p. 34).] they sprang from the same period and the same religious movement in opposition to
Brâhmanism. This question, was formerly, and is still sometimes, answered in agreement with
the first theory, pointing out the undoubted defects in it, to justify the rejection of the
Jaina tradition, and even declaring it to be a late and intentional fabrication. In spite of
this the second explanation is the right one, because the Buddhists themselves confirm the
statements of the Jainas about their prophet. Old historical traditions and inscriptions prove
the independent existence of the sect of the Jainas even during the first five centuries after
Buddha's death, and among the inscriptions are some which clear the Jaina tradition not only
from the suspicion of fraud but bear powerful witness to its honesty. [Footnote: Apart from
the ill-supported supposition of Colebrooke, Stevenson and Thomas, according to which Buddha
was a disloyal disciple of the founder of the Jainas, there is the view held by H. H. Wilson,
A. Weber, and Lassen, and generally accepted till twenty-five years ago, that the Jainas are
an old sect of the Buddhists. This was based, on the one hand, upon the resemblance of the
Jaina doctrines, writings, and traditions to those of the Buddhists, on the other, on the fact
that the canonical works of the Jainas show a more modern dialect than those of the Buddhists,
and that authentic historical proofs of their early existence are wanting. I was myself formerly
persuaded of the correctness of this view and even thought I recognised the Jainas in the Buddhist
school of the Sammatîya. On a more particular examination of Jaina literature, to which I was
forced on account of the collection undertaken for the English Government in the seventies,
I found that the Jainas had changed their name and were always, in more ancient times, called
Nirgrantha or Nigaṇṭha. The observation that the Buddhists recognise the Nigaṇṭha and relate
of their head and founder, that he was a rival of Buddha's and died at Pâvâ where the last
Tîrthakara is said to have attained Nirvâṇa, caused me to accept the view that the Jainas and
the Buddhists sprang from the same religious movement. My supposition was confirmed by Jacobi,
who reached the like view by another course, independently of mine (see Zeitschrift der Deutsch
Morg. Ges. Bd. XXXV, S. 669. Note 1), pointing out that the last Tîrthakara in the Jaina canon
bears the same name as among the Buddhists. Since the publication of our results in the Ind.
Ant. Vol. VII, p. 143 and in Jacobi's introduction to his edition of the Kalpasûtra, which
have been further verified by Jacobi with great penetration, views on this question have been
divided. Oldenberg, Kern, Hoernle, and others have accepted this new view without hesitation,
while A Weber (Indische Studien Bd. XVI, S. 240) and Barth (Revue de l'Histoire des Religions,
tom. III, p. 90) keep to their former standpoint. The latter do not trust the Jaina tradition
and believe it probable that the statements in the same are falsified. There are certainly
great difficulties in the way of accepting such a position especially the improbability that
the Buddhists should have forgotten the fact of the defection of their hated enemy. Meanwhile,
this is not absolutely impossible as the oldest preserved Jaina canon had its first authentic
edition only in the fifth or sixth century of our era, and as yet the proof is wanting that
the Jainas, in ancient times, possessed a fixed tradition. The belief that I am able to insert
this missing link in the chain of argument and the hope of removing the doubts of my two honoured
friends has caused me to attempt a connected statement of the whole question although this
necessitates the repetition of much that has already been said, and is in the first part almost
entirely a recapitulation of the results of Jacobi's researches.]

The oldest canonical books of the Jaina, apart from some mythological additions and evident
exaggerations, contain the following important notes on the life of their last prophet. [Footnote:
The statement that Vardhamâna's father was a mighty king belongs to the manifest exaggerations.
This assertion is refuted by other statements of the Jainas themselves. See Jacobi, S.B.E.
Vol. XXII, pp. xi-xii.] Vardhamâna was the younger son of Siddhârtha a nobleman who belonged
to the Kshatriya race, called in Sanskrit Jñâti or Jñâta, in Prakrit Nâya, and, according to
the old custom of the Indian warrior caste, bore the name of a Brâhmanic family the Kâśyapa.
His mother, who was called Triśalâ, belonged to the family of the governors of Videha. Siddhârtha's
residence was Kuṇḍapura, the Basukund of to-day, a suburb of the wealthy town of Vaiśâlî, the
modern Besarh, in Videha or Tirhut. [Footnote: Dr. Bühler by a slip had here "Magadha oder
Bihâr".—J. B.] Siddhârtha was son-in-law to the king of Vaiśâlî. Thirty years, it seems, Vardhamâna
led a worldly life in his parents' house. He married, and his wife Yaśodâ bore him a daughter
Anojjâ, who was married to a noble of the name of Jamâli, and in her turn had a daughter. In
his thirty-first year his parents died. As they were followers of Pârśva the twenty-third Jina,
they chose, according to the custom of the Jainas, the death of the wise by starvation. Immediately
after this Vardhamâna determined to renounce the world. He got permission to take this step
from his elder brother Nandivardhana, and the ruler of his land divided his possessions and
became a homeless ascetic. He wandered more than twelve years, only resting during the rainy
season, in the lands of the Lâḍha, in Vajjabhûmi and Subbhabhûmi, the Rârh of to-day in Bengal,
and learned to bear with equanimity great hardships and cruel ill treatment at the hands of
the inhabitants of those districts. Besides these he imposed upon himself the severest mortifications;
after the first year he discarded clothes and devoted himself to the deepest meditation. In
the thirteenth year of this wandering life he believed he had attained to the highest knowledge
and to the dignity of a holy one. He then appeared as a prophet, taught the Nirgrantha doctrine,
a modification of the religion of Pârśva, and organised the order of the Nirgrantha ascetics.
From that time he bore the name of the venerable ascetic Mahâvîra. His career as a teacher
lasted not quite thirty years, during which he travelled about, as formerly, all over the country,
except during the rainy seasons. He won for himself numerous followers, both of the clergy
and the lay class, among whom, however, in the fourteenth year of his period of teaching, a
split arose—caused by his son-in-law Jamâli.

The extent of his sphere of influence almost corresponds with that of the kingdoms of Srâvastî
or Kosala, Vidcha, Magadha, and Aṅga,—the modern Oudh, and the provinces of Tirhut and Bihâr
in Western Bengal. Very frequently he spent the rainy season in his native place Vaiśâlî and
in Râjagṛiha. Among his contemporaries were, a rival teacher Gosâla the son of Maṁkhali—whom
he defeated in a dispute, the King of Videha—Bhambhasâra or Bibbhisâra called Sreṇika, and
his sons Abhayakumâra and the parricide Ajátaśatru or Kûṇika, who protected him or accepted
his doctrine, and also the nobles of the Lichchhavi and Mallaki races. The town of Pâpâ or
Pâvâ, the modern Padraona [Footnote: This is General Cunningham's identification and a probable
one.—Ed.] is given as the place of his death, where he dwelt during the rainy season of the
last year of his life, in the house of the scribe of king Hastipâla. Immediately after his
death, a second split took place in his community. [Footnote: Notes on Mahâvîra's life are
to be found especially in Âchârâṅga Sûtra in S.B.E. Vol. XXII, pp. 84-87, 189-202; Kalpasûtra,
ibid. pp. 217-270. The above may be compared with Jacobi's representation, ibid. pp. x-xviii.
where most of the identifications of the places named are given, and Kalpasûtra introd. p.
ii. We have to thank Dr. Hoernle for the important information that Vardhamâna's birthplace
Kuṇḍapura is still called Vasukund: Upâsakadaśâ Sûtra p. 4. Note 3. The information on the
schisms of the Jainas is collected by Lemmann in the Indische Studien, Bd. XVII, S. 95 ff.]

On consideration of this information, it immediately strikes one, that the scene of Vardhamâna's
activity is laid in the same part of India as Buddha laboured in, and that several of the personalities
which play a part in the history of Buddha also appear in the Jaina legend. It is through the
kingdoms of Kosala, Videha and Magadha, that Buddha is said to have wandered preaching, and
their capitals Śrâvastî and Râjagṛiha are just the places named, where he founded the largest
communities. It is also told of the inhabitants of Vaiśâlî that many turned to his doctrine.
Many legends are told of his intercourse and friendship with Bimbisâra or Śreṇika, king of
Videha, also of the murder of the latter by his son Ajâtaśatru, who, tortured with remorse,
afterwards approached Buddha; mention is also made of his brother Abhayakumâra, likewise Makkhali
Gosâla is mentioned among Buddha's opponents and rivals. It is thus clear that the oldest Jaina
legend makes Vardhamâna a fellow countryman and contemporary of Buddha, and search might be
suggested in the writings of the Buddhists for confirmation of these assumptions. Such indeed
are to be found in no small number.

Even the oldest works of the Singalese Canon,—which date apparently from the beginning of the
second century after Buddha's death, or the fourth century B.C., and which at any rate had
their final edition in the third,—frequently mention an opposing sect of ascetics, the Nigaṇṭha,
which the northern texts, written in Sanskrit, recognise among the opponents of Buddha, under
the name Nirgrantha, whom an old Sûtra [Footnote: The Mahâparinibbâṇa Sutta, in S.B.E. Vol.
XI, p. 106.] describes as "heads of companies of disciples and students, teachers of students,
well known, renowned, founders of schools of doctrine, esteemed as good men by the multitude".
Their leader is also named; he is called in Pâli Nâtaputta, in Sanskrit Jñâtiputra, that is
the son of Jñâti or Nâta. The similarity between these words and the names of the family Jñâti,
Jñâta or Naya, to which Vardhamâna belonged is apparent. Now since in older Buddhist literature,
the title 'the son of the man of the family N. N.' is very often used instead of the individual's
name, as for example, 'the son of the Sâkiya' is put for Buddha-Sâkiyaputta, so that it is
difficult not to suppose that Nâtaputta or Jñâtiputra, the leader of the Nigaṇṭha or Nirgrantha
sect, is the same person as Vardhamâna, the descendant of the Jñâti family and founder of the
Nirgrantha or Jaina sect. If we follow up this idea, and gather together the different remarks
of the Buddhists about the opponents of Buddha, then it is apparent that his identity with
Vardhamâna is certain. A number of rules of doctrine are ascribed to him, which are also found
among the Jainas, and some events in his life, which we have already found in the accounts
of the life of Vardhamâna, are related.

In one place in the oldest part of the Singalese canon, the assertion is put into the mouth
of Nigaṇṭha Nâtaputta, that the Kiriyâvâda—the doctrine of activity, separates his system from
Buddha's teaching. We shall certainly recognise in this doctrine, the rule of the Kiriyâ, the
activity of souls, upon which Jainism places so great importance. [Footnote: Jacobi, Zeitschrift
der Deutsch. Morg. Ges. Bd. XXXIV, S. 187; Ind. Antiq. Vol. IX, p. 159.] Two other rules from
the doctrine of souls are quoted in a later work, not canonical: there it is stated, in a collection
of false doctrines which Buddha's rivals taught, that Nigaṇṭha asserts that cold water was
living. Little drops of water contained small souls, large drops, large souls. Therefore he
forbade his followers, the use of cold water. It is not difficult, in these curious rules to
recognise the Jaina dogma, which asserts the existence of souls, even in the mass of lifeless
elements of earth, water, fire, and wind. This also proves, that the Nigaṇṭha admitted the
classification of souls, so often ridiculed by the Brâhmaṇs, which distinguishes between great
and small. This work, like others, ascribes to Nigaṇṭha the assertion, that the so-called three
daṇḍa—the three instruments by which man can cause injury to creatures—thought, word, and body,
are separate active causes of sin. The Jaina doctrine agrees also in this case, which always
specially represents the three and prescribes for each a special control. [Footnote: Jacobi,
Ind. Antiq. Vol. IX, p. 159.]

Besides these rules, which perfectly agree with one another, there are still two doctrines
of the Nigaṇṭha to be referred to which seem to, or really do, contradict the Jainas; namely,
it is stated that Nâtaputta demanded from his disciples the taking of four, not as in Vardhamâna's
case, of five great vows. Although this difficulty may seem very important at first glance,
it is, however, set aside by an oft repeated assertion in the Jaina works. They repeatedly
say that Pàrśva, the twenty-third Jina only recognised four vows, and Vardhamâna added the
fifth. The Buddhists have therefore handed down a dogma which Jainism recognises. The question
is merely whether they or the Jainas are the more to be trusted. If the latter, and it is accepted
that Vardhamâna was merely the reformer of an old religion, then the Buddhists must be taxed
with an easily possible confusion between the earlier and later teachers. If, on the other
hand, the Jaina accounts of their twenty-third prophet are regarded as mythical, and Vardhamâna
is looked upon as the true founder of the sect,—then the doctrine of the four vows must be
ascribed to the latter, and we must accept as a fact that he had changed his views on this
point. In any case, however, the Buddhist statement speaks for, rather than against, the identity
of Nigaṇṭha with Jina. [Footnote: Jacobi, loc. cit.. p. 160, and Leumann, Actes du Vlième Congrès
Int. des Or. Sect. Ary. p. 505. As the Jaina accounts of the teaching of Pârśva and the existence
of communities of his disciples, sound trustworthy, we may perhaps accept, with Jacobi, that
they rest on a historical foundation.]

Vardhamâna's system, on the other hand, is quite irreconcilable with Nâtaputta's assertion
that virtue as well as sin, happiness as well as unhappiness is unalterably fixed for men by
fate, and nothing in their destiny can be altered by the carrying out of the holy law. It is,
however, just as irreconcilable with the other Buddhist accounts of the teaching of their opponent;
because it is absolutely unimaginable, that the same man, who lays vows upon his followers,
the object of which is to avoid sin, could nevertheless make virtue and sin purely dependent
upon the disposition of fate, and preach the uselessness of carrying out the law. The accusation
that Nâtaputta embraced fatalism must therefore be regarded as an invention and an outcome
of sect hatred as well as of the wish to throw discredit on their opponents. [Footnote: Jacobi
loc. cit.. p. 159-160.]

The Buddhist remarks on the personality and life of Nâtaputta are still more remarkable. They
say repeatedly that he laid claim to the dignity of an Arhat and to omniscience which the Jainas
also claim for their prophet, whom they prefer simply to call 'the Arhat' and who possesses
the universe-embracing 'Kevala' knowledge. [Footnote: See for example the account in the Chullavagga,
in S.B.E. Vol. XX. p. 78-79; Ind. Antiq. Vol. VIII, p. 313.] A history of conversions, tells
us further that Nâtaputta and his disciples disdained to cover their bodies; we are told just
the same of Vardhamâna. [Footnote: Spence Hardy, Manual of Budhism, p. 225.] A story in the
oldest part of the Singalese canon gives an interesting and important instance of his activity
in teaching. Buddha, so the legend runs, once came to the town Vaiśâlî, the seat of the Kshatriya
of the Lichchhavi race. His name, his law, his community were highly praised by the nobles
of the Lichchhavi in the senate-house. Sîha, their general, who was a follower of the Nigaṇṭha,
became anxious to know the great teacher. He went to his master Nâtaputta, who happened to
be staying in Vaiśâlî just then, and asked permission to pay the visit. Twice Nâtaputta refused
him. Then Sîha determined to disobey him. He sought Buddha out, heard his teaching and was
converted by him. In order to show his attachment to his new teacher he invited Buddha and
his disciples to eat with him. On the acceptance of the invitation, Sîha commanded his servants
to provide flesh in honour of the occasion. This fact came to the ears of the followers of
the Nigaṇṭha. Glad to have found an occasion to damage Buddha, they hurried in great numbers
through the town, crying out, that Sîha had caused a great ox to be killed for Buddha's entertainment;
that Buddha had eaten of the flesh of the animal although he knew it had been killed on his
account, and was, therefore guilty of the death of the animal. The accusation was brought to
Siha's notice and was declared by him to be a calumny. Buddha, however preached a sermon after
the meal, in which he forbade his disciples to partake of the flesh of such animals as had
been killed on their account. The legend also corroborates the account in the Jaina works,
according to which Vardhamâna often resided in Vaiśâlî and had a strong following in that town.
It is probably related to show that his sect was stricter, as regards the eating of flesh,
than the Buddhists, a point, which again agrees with the statutes of the Jainas. [Footnote:
S.B.E. Vol. XVII, pp. 108-117.]

The account of Nâtaputta's death is still more important. "Thus I heard it", says an old book
of the Singalese canon, the Sâmagâma Sutta, "once the Venerable one lived in Sâmagâma in the
land of the Sâkya. At that time, however, certainly the Nigaṇṭha Nâtaputta had died in Pâvâ.
After his death the Nigaṇṭha wandered about disunited, separate, quarrelling, fighting, wounding
each other with words." [Footnote: The passage is given in the original by Oldenberg, Leitsch.
der D. Morg. Ges. Bd. XXXIV, S. 749. Its significance in connection with the Jaina tradition
as to their schisms has been overlooked until now. It has also been unnoticed that the assertion,
that Vardhamâna died during Buddha's lifetime, proves that the latest account of this occurrence
given by traditions 467 B.C. is false: Later Buddhist legends (Spence Hardy, Manual of Budhism,
pp. 266-271) treat of Nâtaputta's death in more detail. In a lengthy account they give as the
cause of the same the apostacy of one of his disciples, Upâli who was converted by Buddha.
After going over to Buddhism, Upâli treated his former master with scorn, and presumed to relate
a parable which should prove the foolishness of those who believed in false doctrines. Thereupon
the Nigaṇṭha fell into despair. He declared his alms-vessel was broken, his existence destroyed,
went to Pâva, and died there. Naturally no importance is to be given to this account and its
details. They are apparently the outcome of sect-hatred.] Here we have complete confirmation
of the statement of the Jaina canon as to the place where Vardhamâna entered Nirvâṇa, as well
as of the statement that a schism occurred immediately after his death.

The harmony between the Buddhist and Jaina tradition, as to the person of the head of the Nirgrantha
is meanwhile imperfect. It is disturbed by the description of Nâtaputta as a member of the
Brâhmanic sect of the Âgniveśyâyana, whilst Vardhamâna belonged to the Kâśyapa. The point is
however so insignificant, that an error on the part of the Buddhists is easily possible. [Footnote:
According to Jacobi's supposition, S.B.E. Vol. XXII, p. xvi, the error was caused, by the only
disciple of Vardhamâna, who outlived his master, Sudharman being an Âgniveśyâyana.] It is quite
to be understood that perfect exactness is not to be expected among the Buddhists or any other
sect in describing the person of a hated enemy. Enmity and scorn, always present, forbid that.
The most that one can expect is that the majority and most important of the facts given may agree.

This condition is undoubtedly fulfilled in the case on hand. It cannot, therefore be denied,
that, in spite of this difference, in spite also of the absurdity of one article of the creed
ascribed to him, Vardhamâna Jñâtiputra, the founder of the Nirgrantha—or Jaina community is
none other than Buddha's rival. From Buddhist accounts in their canonical works as well as
in other books, it may be seen that this rival was a dangerous and influential one, and that
even in Buddha's time his teaching had spread considerably. Their legends about conversions
from other sects very often make mention of Nirgrantha sectarians, whom Buddha's teaching or
that of his disciples had alienated from their faith. Also they say in their descriptions of
other rivals of Buddha, that these, in order to gain esteem, copied the Nirgrantha and went
unclothed, or that they were looked upon by the people as Nirgrantha holy ones, because they
happened to have lost their clothes. Such expressions would be inexplicable if Vardhamâna's
community had not become of great importance. [Footnote: See for the history of Sîha related
above, Spence Hardy, Manual of Budhism, pp. 226, 266, and Jacobi, Ind. Antiq. Vol. VIII, p. 161]

This agrees with several remarks in the Buddhist chronicles, which assert the existence of
the Jainas in different districts of India during the first century after Buddha's death. In
the memoirs of the Chinese Buddhist and pilgrim Hiuen Tsiang, who visited India in the beginning
of the seventh century of our era, is to be found an extract from the ancient annals of Magadha,
which proves the existence of the Nirgrantha or Jainas in their original home from a very early
time. [Footnote: Beal, Si-yu-ki. Vol. II, p. 168.] This extract relates to the building of
the great monastry at Nâlandâ, the high school of Buddhism in eastern India, which was founded
shortly after Buddha's Nirvâṇa, and mentions incidentally that a Nirgrantha who was a great
astrologer and prophet had prophesied the future success of the new building. At almost as
early a period the Mahâvan̄sa, composed in the fifth century A.D., fixes the appearance of
the Nirgrantha in the island of Ceylon. It is said that the king Paṇḍukâbhaya, who ruled in
the beginning of the second century after Buddha, from 367-307 B.C. built a temple and a monastery
for two Nirgranthas. The monastery is again mentioned in the same work in the account of the
reign of a later king Vaṭṭâgâmini, cir. 38-10 B.C. It is related that Vaṭṭâgâmini being offended
by the inhabitants, caused it to be destroyed after it had existed during the reigns of twenty
one kings, and erected a Buddhist Saṅghârâma in its place. The latter piece of information
is found also in the Dîpavan̄sa of more than a century earlier. [Footnote: Turnour, Mahâvaṅsa,
pp. 66-67 and p. 203, 206: Dîpavan̄sa XIX 14; comp. also Kern, Buddhismus, Bd. I, S. 422. In
the first passage in the Mahâvaṅ sa, three Nighaṇṭas are introduced by name, Jotiya, Giri,
and Kumbhaṇḍa. The translation incorrectly makes the first a Brâhmaṇ and chief engineer.]

None of these works can indeed be looked upon as a truly historical source. There are, even
in those paragraphs which treat of the oldest history after Buddha's death, proofs enough that
they simply hand down a faulty historical tradition. In spite of this, their statements on
the Nirgrantha, cannot be denied a certain weight, because they are closely connected on the
one side with the Buddhist canon, and on the other they agree with the indisputable sources
of history, which relate to a slightly later period.

The first authentic information on Vardhamâna's sect is given by our oldest inscriptions, the
religious edicts of the Maurya king Aśoka, who, according to tradition was anointed in the
year 219 after Buddha's death, and—as the reference to his Grecian contemporaries, Antiochos,
Magas, Alexander, Ptolemaeus and Antigonas confirms,—ruled, during the second half of the third
century B.C. over the whole of India with the exception of the Dekhan. This prince interested
himself not only in Buddhism, which he professed in his later years, but he took care, in a
fatherly way, as he repeatedly relates, of all other religious sects in his vast kingdom. In
the fourteenth year of his reign, he appointed officials, called law-superintendents, whose
duty it was to watch over the life of the different communities, to settle their quarrels,
to control the distribution of their legacies and pious gifts. He says of them in the second
part of the seventh 'pillar' edict, which he issued in the twenty-ninth year of his reign,
"My superintendents are occupied with various charitable matters, they are also engaged with
all sects of ascetics and householders; I have so arranged that they will also be occupied
with the affairs of the Saṁgha; likewise I have arranged that they will be occupied with the
Âjîvika Brâhmaṇs; I have arranged it that they will also be occupied with the Nigaṇṭha". [Footnote:
See Senart, Inscriptions de Piyadasi, tom. II, p. 82. Ed. VIII, l. 4. My translation differs
from Senart's in some points especially in relation to the construction. Conf. Epigraphia Indiea,
vol. II, pp. 272f.] The word Saṁgha serves here as usual for the Buddhist monks. The Âjívikas,
whose name completely disappears later, are often named in the sacred writings of the Buddhists
and the Jainas as an influential sect. They enjoyed the special favour of Aśoka, who, as other
inscriptions testify, caused several caves at Baràbar to be made into dwellings for their ascetics.
[Footnote: See Ind. Antiquary, vol. XX, pp. 361 ff.] As in the still older writings of the
Buddhist canon, the name Nigaṇṭha here can refer only to the followers of Vardhamâna. As they
are here, along with the other two favourites, counted worthy of special mention, we may certainly
conclude that they were of no small importance at the time. Had they been without influence
and of small numbers Aśoka would hardly have known of them, or at least would not have singled
them out from the other numerous nameless sects of which he often speaks. It may also be supposed
that they were specially numerous in their old home, as Aśoka's capital Pâṭaliputra lay in
this land. Whether they spread far over these boundaries, cannot be ascertained.

On the other hand we possess two documents from the middle of the next century which prove
that they advanced into south-eastern India as far as Kaliṅga. These are the inscriptions at
Khaṇḍagiri in Orissa, of the great King Khâravela and his first wife, who governed the east
coast of India from the year 152 to 165 of the Maurya era that is, in the first half of second
century B.C.

The larger inscription, unfortunately very much disfigured, contains an account of the life
of Khâravela from his childhood till the thirteenth year of his reign. It begins with an appeal
to the Arhat and Siddha, which corresponds to the beginning of the five-fold form of homage
still used among the Jainas, and mentions the building of temples in honour of the Arhat as
well as an image of the first Jina, which was taken away by a hostile king. The second and
smaller inscription asserts that Khâravela's wife caused a cave to be prepared for the ascetics
of Kalinga, "who believed on the Arhat." [Footnote: The meaning of these inscriptions, which
were formerly believed to be Buddhist, was first made clear by Dr. Bhangvânlâl's Indrâji's
careful discussion in the Actes du Vlième Congrès Internat. des Orientalistes Sect. Ary. pp.
135-159. H; first recognised the true names of the King Khâravela and his predecessors and
shewed that Khâravela and his wife were patrons of the Jainas. We have to thank him for the
information that the inscription contains a date in the Maurya Era. I have thoroughly discussed
his excellent article in the Oesterreichischen Monatsschrift, Bd. X, S. 231 ff. and have there
given my reasons for differing from him on an important point, namely, the date of the beginning
of the Maurya Era, which, according to his view begins with the conquest of Kaliṅga by Aśoka
about 255 B. C. Even yet I find it impossible to accept that the expression, "in the hundred
and sixty fifth year of the era of the Maurya Kings", can mean anything else than that 164
years have passed between the thirteenth year of the rule of Khâravela and the anointing of
the first Maurya King Chandrugupta. Unfortunately it is impossible to fix the year of the latter
occurrence, or to say more than that it took place between the years 322 and 312 B.C. The date
given in Khâravela's inscription cannot therefore be more closely fixed than that it lies between
156 and 147 B.C. I now add to my former remarks—that appeals to the Arhat and Siddha appear
also in Jaina inscriptions from Mathurâ and may be taken as a certain mark of the sect. Thus
it is worthy of note that even in Hiuen Tsiang's time, (Beal, Si-yu-ki, Vol. II, p. 205) Kalinga
was one of the chief seats of the Jainas.]

From a somewhat later period, as the characters show, from the first century B.C. comes a dedicatory
inscription which has been found far to the west of the original home of the Jainas, in Mathurà
on the Jamnâ. It tells of the erection of a small temple in honour of the Arhat Vardhamâna,
also of the dedication of seats for the teachers, a cistern, and a stone table. The little
temple, it says, stood beside the temple of the guild of tradesmen, and this remark proves,
that Mathurâ, which, according to the tradition of the Jainas, was one of the chief scats of
their religion, possessed a community of Jainas even before the time of this inscription. [Footnote:
This inscription also was first made known by Dr Bhagwanlal Indiaji, loc. cit. p. 143.]

A large member of dedicatory inscriptions have come to light, which are dated from the year
5 to 98 of the era of the Indo-Skythian kings, Kanishka, Huvishka, and Vâsudeva (Bazodeo) and
therefore belong at latest to the end of the first and to the second century A.D. They are
all on the pedestals of statues, which are recognisable partly by the special mention of the
names of Vardhamâna and the Arhat Mahâvíra, partly by absolute nudity and other marks. They
show, that the Jaina community continued to flourish in Mathurâ and give besides extraordinarily
important information, as I found in a renewed research into the ancient history of the sect.
In a number of them, the dedicators of the statues give not only their own names, but also
those of the religious teachers to whose communities they belonged. Further, they give these
teachers their official titles, still used among the Jainas: vâchaka, 'teacher', and gaṇin,
'head of a school'. Lastly they specify the names of the schools to which the teachers belonged,
and those of their subdivisions. The schools are called, gaṇa, 'companies'; the subdivisions,
kula, 'families' and śâkhà, 'branches'. Exactly the same division into gaṇa, śâkhà, and kula
is found in a list in one of the canonical works, of the Śvetâmbaras, the Kalpasûtra, which
gives the number of the patriarchs and of the schools founded by them, and it is of the highest
importance, that, in spite of mutilation and faulty reproduction of the inscriptions, nine
of the names, which appear in the Kalpasûtra are recognisable in them, of which part agree
exactly, part, through the fault of the stone-mason or wrong reading by the copyist, are somewhat
defaced. According to the Kalpasûtra, Sushita, the ninth successor to Vardhamâna In the position
of patriarch, together with his companion Supratibuddha, founded the 'Koḍiya' or 'Kautika gaṇa,
which split up into four 'sâkhà, and four 'kula'. Inscription No. 4. which is dated in the
year 9 of the king Kanishka or 87. A.D. (?) gives us a somewhat ancient form of the name of
the gaṇa Koṭiya and that of one of its branches exactly corresponding to the Vairi śàkhâ. Mutilated
or wrongly written, the first word occurs also in inscriptions Nos. 2, 6 and 9 as koto-, keṭṭiya,
and ka ..., the second in No. 6 as Vorâ. One of the families of this gaṇa, the Vâṇiya kula
is mentioned in No. 6, and perhaps in No. 4. The name of a second, the Praśnavàhaṇaka, seems
to have appeared in No. 19. The last inscription mentions also another branch of the Koṭiya
gaṇa, the Majhimâ sâkhâ, which, according to the Kalpasûtra, was founded by Priyagantha the
second disciple of Susthita. Two still older schools which, according to tradition, sprang
from the fourth disciple of the eighth patriarch, along with some of their divisions appear
in inscriptions Nos. 20 and 10. These are the Aryya-Udehikîya gaṇa, called the school of the
Ârya-Rohaṇa in the Kalpasûtra, to which belonged the Parihâsaka kula and the Pûrnapâtrikâ śâkhâ,
as also the Charâṇa gaṇa with the Prîtidharmika kula. Each of these names is, however, somewhat
mutilated by one or more errata in writing. [Footnote: Dr. Bühler's long note (p. 48) on these
inscriptions was afterwards expanded in the Wiener Zeitschrift fur die Kunde des Morgenlandes
Bd. I, S. 165-180; Bd. II, S. 141-146. Bd. III, S. 233-240; and Bd. IV, S. 169-173. The argument
of these papers is summarised in. Appendix. A, pp. 48 ff.—Ed.] The statements in the inscriptions
about the teachers and their schools are of no small importance in themselves for the history
of the Jainas. If, at the end of the first century A.D.(?) many separate schools of Jaina ascetics
existed, a great age and lively activity, as well as great care as regards the traditions of
the sect, may be inferred. The agreement of the inscriptions with the Kalpasûtra leads still
further however: it proves on the one side that the Jainas of Mathurâ were Śvetâmbara, and
that the schism, which split the sect into two rival branches occurred long before the beginning
of our era. On the other hand it proves that the tradition of the Svetâmbara really contains
ancient historic elements, and by no means deserves to be looked upon with distrust. It is
quite probable that, like all traditions, it is not altogether free from error. But it can
no longer be declared to be the result of a later intentional misrepresentation, made in order
to conceal the dependence of Jainism on Buddhism. It is no longer possible to dispute its authenticity
with regard to those points which are confirmed by independent statements of other sects, and
to assert, for example, that the Jaina account of the life of Vardhamâna, which agrees with
the statements of the Buddists, proves nothing as regards the age of Jainism because in the
late fixing of the canon of the Śvetâmbaras in the sixth century after Christ it may have been
drawn from Buddhist works. Such an assertion which, under all circumstances, is a bold one,
becomes entirely untenable when it is found that the tradition in question states correctly
facts which lie not quite three centuries distant from Vardhamâna's time, and that the sect,
long before the first century of our era kept strict account of their internal affairs. [Footnote:
See Weber's and Barth's opinions quoted above in note I, p. 23.]

Unfortunately the testimony to the ancient history of the Jainas, so far as made known by means
of inscriptions, terminates here. Interesting as it would be to follow the traces of their
communities in the later inscriptions, which become so numerous from the fifth century A.D.
onwards and in the description of his travels by Hiuen Tsiang, who found them spread through
the whole of India and even beyond its boundaries, it would be apart from our purpose. The
documents quoted suffice, however, to confirm the assertion that during the first five centuries
after Buddha's death both the statements of Buddhist tradition and real historical sources
give evidence to the existence of the Jainas as an important religious community independent
of Buddhism, and that there are among the historical sources some which entirely clear away
the suspicion that the tradition of the Jainas themselves is intentionally falsified.

The advantage gained for Indian history from the conclusion that Jainism and Buddhism are two
contemporary sects—having arisen in the same district,—is no small one. First, this conclusion
shows that the religious movement of the sixth and fifth centuries B.C. in eastern India must
have been a profound one. If not only one, but certainly two, and perhaps more reformers, appeared
at the same time, preaching teachers, who opposed the existing circumstances in the same manner,
and each of whom gained no small number of followers for their doctrines, the desire to overthrow
the Brahmanical order of things must have been generally and deeply felt. This conclusion shows
then that the transformation of the religious life in India was not merely the work of a religious
community. Many strove to attain this object although separated from one another. It is now
recognisable, though preliminarily, in one point only, that the religious history of India
from the fifth century B.C. to the eighth or ninth A.D. was not made up of the fight between
Brahmanism and Buddhism alone. This conclusion allows us, lastly, to hope that the thorough
investigation of the oldest writings of the Jainas and their relations with Buddhism on the
one hand and with Brahmanism on the other will afford many important ways of access to a more
exact knowledge concerning the religious ideas which prevailed in the sixth and fifth centuries
B.C., and to the establishment of the boundaries of originality between the different systems.

APPENDIX A.

Copies of the mutilated inscriptions referred to, were published by General Sir A. Cunningham
in his Archaeological Survey Reports, vol. III, plates xiii-xv. Unfortunately they have been
presented from 'copies' and are therefore full of errors, which are due for the most part,
doubtless, to the copyist and not to the sculptor. It is not difficult, however, in most cases
under consideration here, to restore the correct reading. Usually only vowel signs are omitted
or misread and, here, and there, consonants closely resembling one another as va and cha, va,
and dha, ga and śa, la and na are interchanged.

The formulae of the inscriptions are almost universally the same. First comes the date, then
follows the name of a reverend teacher, next, the mention of the school and the subdivision
of it to which he belonged. Then the persons, who dedicated the statues are named (mostly women),
and who belonged to the community of the said teacher. The description of the gift forms the
conclusion. The dialect of the inscriptions shows that curious mixture of Sanskṛĭt and Prâkṛĭt
which is found in almost all documents of the Indo-Skythian kings, and whichas Dr. Hoernle
was the first to recognise—was one of the literary languages of northern and northwestern India
during the first centuries before and after the commencement of our era.

In the calculation of dates, I use the favourite starting point for the era of the Indo-Skythian
kings, which unfortunately, is not certainly determined, and assume that it is identical with
the Saka era of 78-1/4 A.D. The rule of these princes could not have fallen later: in my opinion
it was somewhat earlier. [Footnote: What follows is from the author's later and fuller paper
in Wiener Zeitschrift für die Kunde des Morgenlandes, Bd. I, S. 170 f., but abridged.—Ed.]
I give here transcripts and restorations of such inscriptions as mention Jaina schools or titles.

1. The inscription which is the most important for my purpose and at the same time one of the
best preserved, is Sir A. Cunningham's No. 6, plate xiii, which was found on the base of a
Jaina image (Arch. Sur. Rep. vol. III, p. 31). The copy compared with a rubbing gives the following
reading, (the letters within parentheses are damaged):

  L. 1. Siddhaṁ saṁ 20 gramâ 1 di 10 + 5 ko(ṭi)yato gaṇato
  (Vâ)ṇiyato kulato V(ai)r(i)to śâkâto Śirikâto

  2. (bha)ttito vâchakasya Aryya-Saṅghasihasya nir(v)varttanaṁ
  Dattilasya.... Vi.-

  3. lasya ko(ṭhu)bi(ki)ya Jayavâlasya Devadâsasya Nâgadinasya cha
  Nâgadinâye cha (mâ)tu.

  4. śrâ(vi)kâye (D)i-

  5. (nâ)ye dânaṁ. i

  6. Varddhamâna pra-

  7. timâ|

The lacuna in line 2, after Dattilasya, probably contained the word duhituye or dhûtuye and
part of a male name of which only the letter vi is visible. In l. 3, possibly koṭhabiniye is
to be read instead of koṭhubikiye. As there is room for one more letter at the end of the line,
I propose to read mâtuye. In l. 5, Dinâye would stand for Dattâyâḥ and be the genitive of a
female name Dinnâ or Dattâ, which has been shortened bhâmâvat. There can be no doubt that the
word śrî, or śiri, which is required, has stood before Vardhamâna. With these restorations
the translation is as follows:

  "Success! The year 20, summer (month) I, day 15. An image of
  glorious Vardhamâna, the gift of the female lay-disciple Dinâ
  [i. e. Dinnâ or Dattâ], the [daughter] of Attila, the wife
  of Vi..la, the mother of Jayavâla [Jayapâla], of Devadâsa and Nâgadina
  [i. e. Nâgadinna or Nâgadatta] and of Nâgadina [i.e. of
  Nâgadinnâ or Nâgadattâ]—(this statue being) the nirvartana
  [Footnote: The word nirvartana has the meaning of 'in obedience
  to the order', or 'in consequence of the request'. It occurs again in
  the Prakrit form nivatanaṁ below, in No. 10 (pl. xiv) and it
  has stood in No. 4, and at the end of l. 2 of No. 7, where the rubbing
  has nirva. It is also found in the next: Arch. Sur. Rep.
  vol. XX, pl. v, No. 6.] of the preacher Aryya-Saṅghasiha [i.e.
  Ârya-Saṅghasiṁha], out of the Koṭiya school, the Vâniya race,
  the Vairi branch, the Śirikâ division".

The inscription given Arch. Sur. Rep. vol. XX, plate v, No. 6 reads, according to an excellent
rubbing:

  L. 1. Namo Arahaṁtânain namo Siddhâna saṁ 60 [Footnote:
  In reading the first figure as 60, I follow Sir A. Cunningham. I have
  never seen the sign, in another inscription. The characters of the
  inscription are so archaic that this date may refer to an earlier
  epoch than the Indo-Skythian.] + 2

  2. gra 3 di 5 etâye purvâye Rârakasya Aryakakasaghastasya

  3. śishyâ Âtapikogahabaryasya nirvartana chatnuvarnasya
  saṁghasya

  4. yâ dinnâ paṭibhâ[bho?]ga 1 (?) | (?) Vaihikâya datti|

  "Adoration to the Arhats, adoration to the Siddhas! The year 62, the
  summer (month) 3, the day 5; on the above date a yâ. was
  given to the community, which includes four classes, as an enjoyment
  (or one share for each) (this being) the nirvartana
  of Atapikogahabarya, the pupil of Arya-Kakasaghasta
  (Ârya-Karkaśagharshita), a native of Rârâ (Râḍhâ). The gift of
  Vaihikâ (or, Vaihitâ)."

2. With the inscription No. 6 of the year 20, No. 4 (plate xiii) agrees; it was also found
on a Jaina pedestal. With better readings from a rubbing of the first side only, I propose
for the other portions, of which I have no rubbings, the following emendations,—l. 1, Vâniyato
kulato, sâkhâto; l. 2, kuṭumbimye; I also note that the lacuna in line 2, 3th and 4th sides,
would be filled exactly by ye śrî-Vardhamânasya pratimâ kâritâ sarvasattvâ. The former existence
of the first and last seven letters may be considered certain. My restoration of the whole is,—

  L. 1 (1st side) Siddhaṁ mahârâjasya Kanishkasya râjye
  saṁvatsare navame [Footnote: Sac. Bks. East, vol. XXII
  p. 292.] (2nd side).. mâsc pratha 1 divase 5
  a-(3rd)[syâṁ] purvvâye Koṭiyato gaṇato Vâniya[to]
  (4th) [ku]lato Vairito śâkâto vâchaka-

  2. (1st side) [sya] [N]âganaṃdisa ni[rva]r[ta]naṁ Brah[ma] ...
  [dhû-(2nd)tuye] Bhaṭṭumitasa kuṭu[ṁ]bi[n]i[ye]
  Vikaṭâ-(3rd)[ye śrî Vardhamânasya pratimâ kâritâ sarva-(4th)
  satvâ]naṁ hita-

  3. [sukhâye];

and the translation:—

  "Success! During the reign of the great king Kanishka, in the ninth
  year, 9, in the first month, 1, of ..., on the day 5,—on the above
  date [an image of glorious Vardhamâna has been caused to be made] for
  the welfare [and happiness] of [all created beings] by Vikatâ, the
  house-wife of Bhaṭṭimita (Bhatṭimitra) and [daughter of]
  Brâhma ...—(this statue being) the nirvartana of the preacher
  Nâganaṁidi, out of the Koṭiya school (gaṇa), the
  Vâṇiya line (kula), (and) the Vairi branch (śâkhâ)."

If we now turn to the Kalpasûtra, we find that Suṭṭhiya or Susthita, the eighth successor of
Vardhamâna, founded the Kauṭika or Koḍiya gaṇa, which split up into four śâkhâs and four kulas.
The third of the former was the Vajrî or Vairî, and the third of the latter was the Vâṇîya
or Vâṇijja. It is evident that the names of the gaṇa, kula, and śâkhâ agree with those mentioned
in the two inscriptions, Koṭiya being a somewhat older form of Koḍiya. But it is interesting
to note that the further subdivision of the Vairî śâkhâ—the Śirikâ bhatti (Srikâ bhakti) which
inscription No. 6 mentions, is not known to the Kalpasûtra. This is a gap such as may by be
expected to occur in a list handed down by oral tradition.

3. The Koṭika gaṇa is again mentioned in the badly mutilated inscription No. 19, plate xv.
A complete restoration is impossible.

  L. 1. Saṁvalsare 90 va...sya kuṭubani. vadânasya vodhuya...

  2. K|oṭiyato| gaṇato |Praśna|vâha|na|kato kulato
  Majhamâto śâkhâto...sa nikâye bhati gâlâe thabâni...

It may, however, be inferred from the fragments of the first line that the dedication was made
by a woman who was described as the wife (kuṭumbinî) of one person and as the daughter-in-law
(vadhu) of another. The first part of line 2, restored as above gives—"in the congregation
of ... out of the Koṭiya school, the Praśnavâhanaka line and the Majhamâ branch...." The restoration
of the two names Koṭiya and Praśnavâhanaka seems to me absolutely certain, because they exactly
fill the blanks in the inscription, and because the information in the Kalpasûtra (S. B. E.
vol. XXII, p. 293) regarding the Madhyamâśâkhâ points in that direction. The latter work tells
us that Priyagantha, the second pupil of Susthita and Supratibuddha, founded a śâkhâ, called
Madhyamâ or Majhimâ.

As our inscriptions show that Professor Jacobi's explanation of the terms gaṇa, kula and śâkhâ
[Footnote: S. B. E. vol. XXII, p. 288, note 2.] is correct and that the first denotes the school,
the second the line of teachers, and the third a branch which separated from such a line, it
follows that the śâkhâs named in the Kalpasûtra without the mention of a gaṇa and kula, must
belong to the last preceding gaṇa and derive their origin from one of its kulas. Hence the
Madhyamâ śâkhâ doubtless was included in the Kauṭika gaṇa, and an offshoot of one of its kulas,
the fourth of which is called Praśnavâhanaka or Paṇhavâhaṇaya. The correctness of these inferences
is proved by Râjaśckhara's statement regarding his spiritual descent at the end of the Prabandha
kosha, which he composed in Vik. saṁ 1405. He informs us that he belonged to the Koṭika gaṇa,
the Praśnavâhana kula, the Madhyamâ śâkhâ, the Harshapurîya gachha and the Maladhâri samtâna,
founded by the illustrious Abhayasûri.

For the last words of l. 2 I do not dare to propose an emendation; I merely note that the gift
seems to have consisted of pillars, thabâni, i. e. stambhâḥ.

4. The Koṭiya gaṇa seems finally to be mentioned in pl. xiii, No. 2, where the copy of line
1, 2nd side may be corrected as,—

  Siddha—sa 5 he 1 di 10 + 2 asyâ purvvâye Koṭ(iya).

5.  Names of an older gaṇa and of one of its kulas occur in No. 10 plate xiv, where the copy,
which is faulty, may allow the following partial restoration,—-

  L. 1. Sa 40 + 7 gra 2 di 20 etasyâ purvvâye
  Vâraṇe gaṇe Petidhamikakulavâchakasya Rohanadisya
  sîsasya Senasya nivatanam sâvaka-Da

  2. ...pashâṇavadhaya Giha..ka.bha..
  prapâ [di]nâ..mâ ta...

which I translate—

  "The year 47, the summer (month) 2, the day 20,—on the above date a
  drinking fountain was given by ..., the ... of the lay-disciple Da ...
  (this being) the nivatana of Sena the pupil of Rohanadi
  (Rohanandi) and preacher of the Petidhamika (Praitidharmika) line, in
  the Vâraṇa school."

Varane must be a mistake for the very similar word Chârane. The second kula of this gaṇa which,
according to the Kalpasûtra (S.B.E. vol. XXII, p. 291) was founded by Śrîgupta, the fifth pupil
of Ârya Suhastin, is the Prîtidharmika (p. 292). It is easy to see that a similar name is hidden
in the compound Petivamikakutavâchakasya 'of the preacher of the Petivâmika line'; and an inscription
excavated by Dr. Fuhrer at Mathurâ mentions the Petivâmika (kula) of the Vârana gaṇa. With
the second line little can be done: if the letters prapâ are correct and form a word, one of
the objects dedicated must have been a drinking fountain.

6. The inscription No. 20, plate xv offers likewise slightly corrupt and mutilated names of
a gaṇa, a kula and a sâkhâ, mentioned in the Kalpasûtra. In the lithographed copy lines 3-7
are hopeless and there is no rubbing to help. The word thitu 'of a daughter' in line 6, and
the following ma.uya which is probably a misreading of mâtuye 'of the mother' show that this
dedication also was made by a female. The last four syllables vato maho are probably the remnant
of another namaskâra—namo bhagavato Mahâvîrasya. As regards the proper names, Aryya Rehiniya
is an impossible form; but on comparison with the next inscription to be mentioned, it is evident
that the stone must have read Aryvodchikiyâto or Aryyadehikiyâto gaṇâ[to]. [Footnote: Wiener
Zeitshe. f. d. Kunde der Morgenl., Bd. II, S. 142 f.] According to the Kalpasûtra (S.B.E. vol.
XXII, p. 291) Ârya-Rohaṇa was the first pupil of Ârya Suhastin and founded the Uddeha gaṇa.
The latter split up into four śâkhâs and into six kulas. The name of its fourth śâkhâ, Pûrṇapatrikâ,
closely resembles—especially in its consonantal elements—that of the inscription, Petaputrikâ,
and I do not hesitate in correcting the latter to Ponapatrikâ which would be the equivalent
of Sansk. Paurṇapatrikâ. Among the six kulas is the Parihâsaka, and considering the other agreements,
I believe it probable that the mutilated name read as Puridha.ka is a misreading of Parihâka,
We may emend the first two times and read as follows,—

  L. 1. Siddha|m| namo arahato Mahâvir|a|sya devanâśasya
  | râjña  Vâsudevasya saṁvatsare 90 + 8
  varshamâse + divase 10 | 1 etasyâ.

  2. purvv|â|y|e| Aryyo-D|e|h|i|kiyâto gaṇâ|to|
  P|a|vi|hâsa|k|a|kula|to| P|ou|ap|a|trikât|o| śâkâto gaṇ|i|sya
  Aryya-Devadatta|sya| na... ...

  3. ryya-Kshemasya

  4. prakagiriṇe

  5. kihadiye prajâ

  6. tasya Pravarakasya dhitu Varaṇasya gatvakasya
  ma|t|uya Mitra(?)sa ...datta gâ

  7. ye..|namo bhaga|vato mah|âvîrasya|

and the translation (so far) will be,—

  "Success! Adoration to the Arhat Mahâvirâ, the destroyer(?) of the gods.
  In the year of king Vâsudeva, 98, in the month 4 of the rainy season, on
  the day 11—on the above date ... of the chief of the school
  (gaṇin) Aryya-Devadata (Devadatta) out of the school
  (gaṇa) of the Aryya-Udehikîya (Ârya-Uddehikiya), out of the
  Parihâsaka line (kula), out of the Ponapatrikâ (Paurṇapatrikâ)
  branch (śâkhâ)." [Footnote: At a later date Dr. Bühler added
  other proofs from inscriptions of the authenticity of the Jaina
  tradition, in the Vienna Oriental Journal, vol. II, pp. 141-146;
  vol. III, pp. 233-240; vol. IV, pp. 169-173, 313-318; vol. V, pp.
  175-180; and in Epigraphia Indica, vol. I pp. 371-397; vol. II,
  pp. 195-212, 311. The paragraphs given above are chiefly from his first
  paper in the Vienna Oriental Journal (vol. I, pp. 165-180), which
  appears to be an extended revision of the long footnote in the original
  paper on the Jainas, but it is here corrected in places from readings in
  his later papers.—J. B.]

These and many other statements in the inscriptions, about the teachers and their schools are
of no small importance in themselves for the early history of the Jainas. The agreement of
the above with the Kalpasûtra can best be shown by placing the statements in question against
one another. The inscriptions prove the actual existence of twenty of the subdivisions mentioned
in the Sthavirâvali of the Kalpasûtra. Among its eight gaṇas we can certainly trace three,
possibly four—the Uddchika, Vâraṇa, Veśavâḍiya(?) and Koḍiya.

                    Inscriptions:—

              1. Koṭṭiya (Koḍiya) Gana
                                |
            .———————————————————.
            |                                      |
       Bramadâsika kula               Uchchenâgarî śâkhâ
       Thâniya kula                      Vairî, Vairiyâ śâkhâ
       P[aṇha]vahu[ṇaya]ku[la]        Majhamâ śâkhâ

The Sthavirâvalî of the Kalpasûtra (Sac. Bks. of the East, vol. XXII, p. 292) states that Susṭhita
and Supratibuddha founded the—

              Koṭiya or Kauṭaka Gaṇa
                              |
        .————————————————————————.
        |                                                |
       kulas                                           śâkhâs
  1. Bambhalijja                      1. Uchchanâgarî
  2. Vachchhalijja                              2. Vijjâharî
  3. Vâṇîya or Vâṇîjja              3. Vajrî
  4. Panhavâhanaya                             4. Majjhimáka
     or Praśnavâhanaka                        5. Majjhîma
                                                   (scholar of the two
                                                   teachers.
                                                   founded by
                                                   Priyagantha the second)

                    Inscriptions:—

                    2. Vâraṇa Gaṇa
                              |
               .———————————————.
               |                              |
              kulas                        śâkhâs
            Petivamika                Vâjanâgarî
            Áryya Hâṭikiya          Harîtamâlakaḍhî
            Puśyamitrîya
            Aryya-Cheṭiya
            Kaniyasika

The Kalpasûtra states that Śrîgupta of the Hâritagotra founded the Châraṇa gaṇa, which was
divided into four śâkhâs and into seven kulas:

                     Châraṇa-gaṇa
                              |
               .——————————————-.
               |                             |
             kulas                       śâkhâs
          1. Vachchhalijja           Saṁkâśikâ
          2. Pîdhammiya
          3. Hâlijja                    Vajjanâgarî
          4. Pûsamittijja          Gavedhukâ
          5. Mâlijja
          6. Ârya-Cheḍaya       Hâriyamâlagârî
          7. Kaṇhasaha

                    Inscriptions:—

                  3. Aryya-Udekiya Gaṇa
                              |
                 .—————————————.
                 |                          |
               kulas                      |
             Nágabhatikiya    Petaputrikâ śâkhâ.
             Puridha..

The Kalpasûtra says Ârya-Rohana of the Kâśyapa gotra founded the

                       Uddeha Gana
                               |
       .————————————————————————.
       |                                                |
    kulas                                         śâkhâs
  1. Nâgabhûya                             Udumbarijjiyâ
  2. Somabhûta                                Mâsapûrikâ
  3. Ullagachchha (or Ârdrakachchha?) Matipatrikâ
  4. Ilatthilijja
  5. Nandijja                                   Puṇṇapattiyâ
  6. Parihâsaka

                  Inscriptions:—

               4. [Veśavâdiya Gaṇa]
                            |
                    [Me]hika kula

[Footnote: Epigraphia Indica, vol. I, pp. 382, 388.]

The Kalpasûtra:—Kâmarddhi of the Kuṇḍalagotra founded the Veśavâṭika gaṇa which was divided
into four śàkhâs, and into four kulas:—

                 Veśavâṭika Gaṇa
                           |
      .————————————————————.
      |                                        |
    kulas                                 śâkhâs
  Gaṇika                              Śrâvastikâ
  Maighika                        Rajjapâliyâ
  Kâmarddhika                     Antarijjiyâ
  Indrapuraka                      Khemalijjiyâ

[Footnote: For the above lists see Wiener Zeitschi. Bd. IV, S. 316 ff. and Kalpasûtra in S.
B. E. vol. XXII, pp. 290 f.]

The resemblance of most of these names is so complete that no explanation is necessary.

JAINA MYTHOLOGY.

The mythology of the Jainas, whilst including many of the Hindu divinities, to which it accords
very inferior positions, is altogether different in composition. It has all the appearance
of a purely constructed system. The gods are classified and subdivided into orders, genera,
and species; all are mortal, have their ages fixed, as well as their abodes, and are mostly
distinguished by cognizances chihnas or lâńchhaṇas. Their Tîrthakaras, Tìrthamkaras, or perfected
saints, are usually known as twenty-four belonging to the present age. But the mythology takes
account also of a past and a future age or renovation of the world, and to each of these aeons
are assigned twenty-four Tîrthakaras. But this is not all: in their cosmogony they lay down
other continents besides Jambûdvîpa-Bharata or that which we dwell in. These are separated
from Jambûdvîpa by impassable seas, but exactly like it in every respect and are called Dhâtuki-kanda
and Pushkarârddha; and of each of these there are eastern, and western Bharata and Airàvata
regions, whilst of Jambûdvîpa there is also a Bharata and an Airâvata region: these make the
following ten regions or worlds:—

 1. Jambûdvîpa-bharata-kshetra.
 2. Dhâtukî-khaṇḍa pûrva-bharata.
 3. Dhâtukî-khaṇḍa paśchima-bharata.
 4. Pushkarârddha pûrva-bharata.
 5. Pushkaravaradvîpa paśchima-bharata.
 6. Jambûdvîpa airâvata-kshetra.
 7. Dhâtukî-khaṇḍa pûrva-airâvata.
 8. Dhâtukî-khaṇḍa paśchima-airâvata.
 9. Pushkarârdhadvîpa pûrva-airâvata.
10. Puskarârddha paśchima-airâvata.

To each of these is allotted twenty four past, present and future Atîts or Jinas,—making in
all 720 of this class, for which they have invented names: but they are only names. [Footnote:
See Ratnasâgara, bh. II, pp. 696—705.]

Of the Tîrthakaras of the present age or avasarpini in the Bharata-varsha of Jambûdvîpa, however,
we are supplied with minute details:—their names, parents, stations, reputed ages, complexions,
attendants, cognizances (chihna) or characteristics, etc. and these details are useful for
the explanation of the iconography we meet with in the shrines of Jaina temples. There the
images of the Tîrthakaras are placed on highly sculptured thrones and surrounded by other smaller
attendant figures. In temples of the Śvetâmbara sect the images are generally of marble—white
in most cases, but often black for images of the 19th, 2Oth, 22nd and 23rd Jinas. On the front
of the throne or âsana are usually carved three small figures: at the proper right of the Jina
is a male figure representing the Yaksha attendant or servant of that particular Jina; at the
left end of the throne is the corresponding female—or Yakshinî, Yakshî or Śâsanadevî; whilst
in a panel in the middle there is often another devî. At the base of the seat also, are placed
nine very small figures representing the navagraha or nine planets; that is the sun, moon,
five planets, and ascending and descending nodes.

In the Jaina Purânas, legends are given to account for the connexion of the Yakshas and Yakshîs
with their respective Tîrthakaras: thus, in the case of Pârśvanâtha, we have a story of two
brothers Marubhûti and Kamaṭha, who in eight successive incarnations were always enemies, and
were finally born as Pârśvanâtha and Sambaradeva respectively. A Pâshaṇḍa or unbeliever, engaged
in the panchâgni rite, when felling a tree for his fire, against the remonstrance of Pârśvanâtha,
cut in pieces two snakes that were in it; the Jina, however restored them to life by means
of the pañchamantra. They were then re-born in Pâtâla-loka as Dharaṇendra or Nâgendra-Yaksha
and Padmâvatî-Yakshiṇî. When Sambaradeva or Meghakumâra afterwards attacked the Arbat with
a great storm, whilst he was engaged in the Kâyotsarga austerity—standing immovable, exposed
to the weather—much in the way that Mâra attacked Śâkya Buddha at Bodh-gayâ, Dharaṇendra's
throne in Pâtâla thereupon shook, and the Nâga or Yaksha with his consort at once sped to the
protection of his former benefactor. Dharaṇendra spread his many hoods over the head of the
Arhata and the Yakshṅî Padmâvatî held a white umbrella (śveta chhatri) over him for protection.
Ever after they became his constant attendants, just as Śakra was to Buddha. The legend is
often represented in old-sculptures, in the cave-temples at Bâdâmi, Elura, etc., and the figure
of Pârśva is generally carved with the snake-hoods (Śeshaphaṇi) over him. [Footnote: Cave Temples,
pp. 491, 496; Arch. Sur. Westn. India, vol. I, p. 25 and pl. xxxvii; vol. V, p. 49; Transactions,
R. As. Soc., vol. I, p. 435. At Rânpur in Godwâr, in the temple of Rishabhanâtha is a finely
carved slab representing Pârśvanâtha in the Kâyotsarga position, attended by snake divinities,—Archit.
and Scenery in Gujarât and Râjputâna, p. 21. The story has variants: conf. Ind. Ant. vol. XXX,
p. 302.]

Other legends account for the attachment of each pair of Śâsanadevatâs to their respective Jinas.

The Śvetâmbaras and Digambaras agree generally in the details respecting the different Tîrthakaras;
but, from information furnished from Maisur, they seem to differ as to the names of the Yakshiṇis
attached to the several Tîrthakaras, except the first and last two; they differ also in the
names of several of the Jinas of the past and the future aeons. The Digambaras enlist most
of the sixteen Vidyâdevis or goddesses of knowledge among the Yakshiṇîs, whilst the other sect
include scarcely a third of them.

These Vidyâdevîs, as given by Hemachandra, are—(1) Rohiṇî; (2) Prajñaptî; (3) Vajrasṛińkhalâ;
(4) Kuliśânkuścâ—probably the Ankuśa-Yakshî of the Śvetàmbâra fourteenth Jina; (5) Chakreśvarî;
(6) Naradattâ or Purushadattâ; (7) Kâli or Kâlîkâ; (8) Mahákâlî; (9) Gaurî; (10) Gândhârî;
(11) Sarvâstramahâjvâlâ; (12) Mânavî; (13) Vairoṭyâ; (14) Achchhuptâ; (15) Mânasî; and (16)
Mahâmânasikâ.

The images of the Tîrthakaras are always represented seated with their legs crossed in front—the
toes of one foot resting close upon the knee of the other; and the right hand lies over the
left in the lap. All are represented exactly alike except that Pârśvanâtha, the twenty-third,
has the snake-hoods over him; and, with the Digambaras, Supârśva—the seventh, has also a smaller
group of snake hoods. The Digambara images are all quite nude; those of the Śvetâmbaras are
represented as clothed, and they decorate them with crowns and ornaments. They are distinguished
from one another by their attendant Yakshas and Yakshiṇîs as well as by their respective chihnas
or cognizances which are carved on the cushion of the throne.

All the Jinas are ascribed to the Ikshvâku family (kula)except the twentieth Munisuvrata and
twenty-second Neminâtha, who were of the Harivaṃśa race.

All received dîkshà or consecration at their native places; and all obtained jńâna or complete
enlightenment at the same, except Ṛishabha who became a Kevalin at Purimatàla, Nemi at Girnâr,
and Mahâvîra at the Rijupàlukà river; and twenty of them died or obtained moksha (deliverance
in bliss) on Sameta-Śikhara or Mount Pârśvanâtha in the west of Bengal. But Ṛishabha, the first,
died on Ashṭâpada—supposed to be Śatruñljaya in Gujarât; Vâsupûjya died at Champâpuri in north
Bengal; Neminâtha on mount Girnâr; and Mahâvîra, the last, at Pâvâpur.

Twenty-one of the Tîrthakaras are said to have attained Moksha in the Kâyotsarga (Guj. Kâüsagga)
posture, and Ṛishabha, Nemi, and Mahâvira on the padmâsana or lotus throne.

For sake of brevity the following particulars for each Arhat are given below in serial order viz.:—

 (1) The  vimâna or vâhana (heaven) from which he
     descended for incarnation.

 (2) Birthplace, and place of consecration or dîkshâ.

 (3) Names of father and mother.

 (4) Complexion.

 (5) Cognizance—chihna or lâñchhaṇa.

 (6) Height; and

 (7) Age.

 (8) Dîksha-vriksha or Bodhi tree.

 (9) Yaksha and Yakshiṇî, or attendant spirits.

(10) First Ganadhara or leading disciple, and first
     Âryâ or leader of the female converts.

I. Ṛishabhadeva, Vṛishabha, Âdinthâ or Adiśvara Bhagavân:—(I) Sarvârthasiddha; (2) Vinittanagarî
in Kośalâ and Purimatâla; (3) Nâbhîrâjâ by Marudevâ; (4) golden—varṇa-, (5)the bull,—vṛisha,
balada; (6) 500 poles or dhanusha; (7) 8,400,000 pûrva or great years; (8) the Vaṭa or banyan
tree; (9) Gomukha and Chakreśvarî; (10) Pundarîka and Brahmî.

II.  Ajitanâtha: (1) Vijayavimàna; (2) Ayodhyâ; (3) Jitaśatru by Vijayâmâtâ; (4) golden; (5)
the elephant—gaja or hasti; (6) 450 poles; (7)7,200,000 pûrva years; (8) Śâla—the Shorea robusta;
(9) Mahâyaksha and Ajitabalâ: with the Digambaras, the Yakshiṇî is Rohiṇî-yakshî; (10) Śiṁhasena
and Phâlgu.

III. Sambhavanâtha: (1) Uvarîmagraiveka;(2) Sâvathi or Śràvasti; (3) Jitâri by Senâmâtâ; (4)
golden; (5) the horse,—aśva, ghoḍa; (6) 400 poles; (7) 6,000,000 pûrva years; (8) the Prayâla—Buchanania
latifolia; (9) Trimukha and Duritârî (Digambara—Prajñaptî); (10) Châru and Śyâmâ.

IV. Abhinandana: (1) Jayantavimâna; (2) Ayodhyâ; (3) Sambararâjâ by Siddhârthà; (4) golden;
(5) the ape,—plavaga, vânara or kapi; (6) 350 poles; (7) 5,000,000 pûrva years; (8) the Priyaṇgu
or Panicum italicum; (9) Nàyaka and Kâlîkâ, and Digambara—Yaksheśvara and Vajraśṛiṅkhalâ; (10)
Vajranâbha and Ajitâ.

V. Sumatinâtha: (1) Jayantavimâna; (2) Ayodhyâ; (3) Megharajâ by Maṅgalâ; (4) golden; (5) the
curlew,—krauṅcha, (Dig. chakravakapâkshâ—the Brâhmani or red goose); (6) 300 poles; (7) 4,000,000
pûrva years; (8) Śâla tree;  (9) Tuṁburu and Mahâkalî (Dig. Purushadattâ); (10) Charama and
Kâśyapî.

VI. Padmaprabha: (1) Uvarîmagraiveka; (2) Kauśambî; (3) Śrîdhara by Susîmâ; (4) red (rakta);
(5) a lotus bud—padma, abja, or kamala; (6) 250 poles; (7) 3,000,000 pûrva years; (8) the Chhatrâ
—(Anethum sowa?); (9) Kusuma and Śyâmâ (Dig. Manovegâ or Manoguptî); (10) Pradyotana and Ratî.

VII. Supârśvanâtha: (1) Madhyamagraiveka; (2) Varâṇaśî; (3) Pratishṭharâjâ by Pṛithvî; (4)
golden; [Footnote: The Digambara describe the colours of the seventh and twenty-first Jinas
as marakada or emerald coloured.] (5) the swastika symbol; (6) 200 poles; (7) 2,000,000 pûrva
years; (8) the Śirîsha or Acacia sirisha; (9) Mâtaṅga and Śântâ;—Digambara, Varanandi and Kâlî;
(10) Vidirbha and Somâ.

VIII.  Chandraprabha: (1) Vijayanta; (2) Chandrapura; (3) Mahâsenarâjâ by Lakshmaṇâ; (4) white—dhavala,
śubhra; (5) the moon—chandrâ or śaśî; (6) 150 poles; (7) 1,000,000 pûrva years; (8) the Nâga
tree; (9) Vijaya and Bhṛikuṭî: Digambara—Śyâma or Vijaya and Jvâlâmâlinî; (10) Dinnâ and Sumanâ.

IX. Suvidhinâtha or Pushpadanta: (1) Ânatadevaloka; (2) Kânaṇḍînagarî; (3) Sugrîvarâja by Râmârâṇî;
(4) white; (5) the Makara (Dig. the crab—êḍi); (6) 100 poles; (7) 200,000 pûrva years; (8)
the Śâlî; (9) Ajitâ and Sutârakâ: Digambara—Ajitâ and Mahâkâlî or Ajitâ; (10) Varâhaka  and Vâruṇî.

X. Śitalanâtha: (1) Achyutadevaloka; (2)Bhadrapurâ or Bhadilapura; (3) Dṛi̐ḍharatha-râjâ by
Nandâ; (4) golden; (5) the Śrîvatsa figure: (Dig. Śri-vriksha the ficus religiosa); (6) 90
poles; (7) 100,000 pûrva years; (8) the Priyaṅgu tree; (9) Brahmâ and Aśokâ (Dig. Mânavî);
(10) Nandâ and Sujasâ.

XI. Śreyâṁśanâtha or Śreyasa: (1) Achyutadevaloka; (2) Siṁhapurî; (3) Vishṇurâjâ by Vishṇâ;
(4) golden; (5) the rhinoceros—khaḍga, geṅḍâ: (Dig. Garuḍa); (6) 80 poles; (7) 8,400,000 common
years; (8) the Taṇḍuka tree; (9) Yaksheṭ and Mânavî: Digambara—Îśvara and Gauri; (10) Kaśyapa
and Dhâraṇî.

XII. Vâsupûjya: (1) Prâṇatadevaloka; (2) Champâpurî; (3) Vasupûjya by Jayâ; (4) ruddy—rakta,
Guj. râtuṅ; (5) the female buffalo—mahishî, pâdâ; (6) 70 poles; (7) 7,200,000 common years;
(8) the Pâṭala or Bignonia suaveolens; (9) Kumâra and Chaṇḍâ (Dig. Gândhârî); (10) Subhuma
and Dharaṇî.

XIII.  Vimalanâtha: (1) Mahasâradevaloka; (2) Kampîlyapura; (3) Kṛi̐tavarmarâja by Śyâmâ; (4)
golden; (5) a boar—śâkara, varâha; (6) 60 poles; (7) 6,000,000 years; (8) the Jâmbu or Eugenia
jambolana; (9) Shâṇmukha and Viditâ (Dig. Vairôṭî); (10) Mandara and Dharâ.

XIV. Anantanâtha or Anantajit: (1) Prâṇatadevaloka; (2) Ayodhyâ; (3) Siṁhasena by Suyaśâḥ or
Sujasâ; (4) golden; (5) a falcon—śyena (Dig. bhallûka a bear); (6) 50 poles; (7) 3,000,000
years; (8) the Aśoka or Jonesia asoka; (9) Pâtâla and Ankuśâ (Dig. Anantamatî); (10) Jasa and
Padmâ.

XV.  Dharmanâtha: (1) Vijayavimâna; (2) Ratnapurî; (3) Bhânurâjâ by Suvritâ; (4) golden; (5)
the thunderbolt—vajra; (6) 45 poles; (7) 1,000,000 years; (8) Dadhîparṇa tree (Clitoria ternatea?);
(9) Kinnara and Kandarpâ (Dig. Mânasî); (10) Arishṭa and Ârthaśivâ.

XVI. Śântinâthâ: (1) Sarvârthasiddha; (2) Gajapura or Hastinapurî; (3) Viśvasena by Achirâ;
(4) golden; (5) an antelope—mṛiga, haraṇa, hullĕ, (6)40 poles; (7) 100,000 years; (8) the Nandî
or Cedrela toona; (9) Garuḍa and Nirvâṇî (Dig. Kimpurusha and Mahâmânasî); (10) Chakrâyuddha
and Suchî.

XVII.  Kunthtinâtha: (1) Sarvârthasiddha; (2) Gajapura; (3) Sûrarâjâ by Śrîrânî; (4) golden;
(5) a goat—chhâga or aja; (6) 35 poles; (7) 95,000 years; (8) the Bhilaka tree; (9) Gandharva
and Balâ (Dig. Vijayâ); (10) Sâmba and Dâminî.

XVIII. Aranâtha: (1) Sarvârthasiddha; (2) Gajapura; (3) Sudarśana by Devîrâṇî; (4) golden;
(5) the Nandyâvarta diagram, (Dig. Mina—the zodiacal Pisces); (6) 30 poles; (7) 84,000 years;
(8) Âmbâ or Mango tree; (9) Yaksheṭa and Dhaṇâ (Dig. Kendra and Ajitâ); (10) Kumbha and Rakshitâ.

XIX.  Mallinâtha: (1) Jayantadevaloka; (2) Mathurâ; (3) Kumbharâjâ by Prabhâvatî; (4) blue—nîla;
(5) a jar—kumbham, kalaśa or ghaṭa; (6) 25 poles; (7) 55,000 years; (8) Aśoka tree; (9) Kubera
and Dharaṇapriyâ (Dig. Aparâjitâ); (10) Abhikshaka and Bandhumatî.

XX.  Munisuvrata, Suvrata or Muni: (1) Aparâjita-devaloka; (2) R[a`]jagṛiha; (3) Sumitrar[a`]jâ
by Padmâvatî; (4) black—śyâma, asita; (5) a tortoise—kûrma; (6) 20 poles; (7) 30,000 years;
(8) the Champaka, Michelia champaka; (9) Varuṇa and Naradattâ, (Dig. Bahurûpiṇî); (10) Malli
and Pushpavatî.

XXI. Naminâtha, Nimi or Nimeśvara: (1) Prâṇatadevaloka; (2) Mathurâ; (3) Vijayarâjâ by Viprârâṇî;
(4) yellow; (5) the blue water-lily—nîlotpala, with the Digambaras, sometimes the Aśoka tree;
(6) 15 poles; (7) 10,000 years; (8) the Bakula or Mimusops elengi; (9) Bhṛikuṭi and Gandhârî,
(Dig. Châmuṇḍî); (10) Śubha and Anilâ.

XXII. Neminâtha or Arishṭanemi: (1) Aparâjita; (2) Sauripura (Prákrit—Soriyapura) and Ujjinta
or Mount Girnâr; (3) Samudravijaya by Śivâdevi; (4) black—śyâma; (5) a conch,—śaṅkha; (6) 10
poles; (7) 1000 years; (8) the Veṭasa; (9) Gomedha and Ambikâ: with the Digambaras, Sarvâhṇa
and Kûshmâṇḍinî; (10) Varadatta and Yakshadinnâ.

XXIII. Pârśvanâtha: (1) Prâṇatadevaloka; (2) Varâṇasî and Sameta-Śikhara; (3) Aśvasenarâja
by Vâmâdevî; (4) blue—nîla; (5) a serpent—sarpa; (6) 9 hands; (7) 100 years; (8) the Dhâtakî
or Grislea tomentosa; (9) Pârśvayaksha or Dharaṇendra and Padmâvatî; (10) Âryadinna and Pushpachûḍâ.

XXIV. Śri-Mahâvîra, Vardhamâna or Vîra, the Śramaṇa: (1) Prâṇ atadevaloka; (2) Kuṇḍagrâma or
Chitrakûṭa, and Ṛijupâlukâ; (3) Siddhârtharâja, Śreyânśa or Yaśasvin by Triśalâ Vidchadinnâ
or Priyakâriṇî; (4) yellow; (5) a lion—keśarî-simha; (6) 7 hands or cubits; (7) 72 years; (8)
the śala or teak tree; (9) Mâtaṁga and Siddhâyikâ; (10) Indrabhûti and Chandrabâlâ.

The Tirthakuras may be regarded as the dii majores of the Jainas, [Footnote: For an account
of the ritual of the Svetâmbara sect of Jainas, see my account in the Indian Antiquary, vol.
XIII, pp. 191-196.] though, having become Siddhas, emancipated from all concern, they can have
no interest in mundane affairs. They and such beings as are supposed to have reached perfection
are divided into fifteen species:

 1. Tîrthakarasiddhas;
 2. Atîrthakarasiddhas;
 3. Tîrthasiddhas;
 4. Svaliṅgasiddas;
 5. Anyaliṅgasiddhas;
 6. Striliṅgasiddhas;
 7. Purushaliṅgasiddhas;
 8. Napuṁsakaliṅgasiddhas;
 9. Gṛihaliṅgasiddhas;
10. Tîrthavyavachchhedasiddhas;
11. Pratyekabuddhasiddhas;
12. Svayambuddhasiddhas;
13. Ekasiddas;
14. Anekasiddhas;
15. Buddhabodhietasiddllas.
[Footnote: Jour. Asiat.  IXme Ser. tom. XIX, p. 260.]

But the gods are divided into four classes, and each class into several orders: the four classes
are:—

  I. Bhavanâdhipatis, Bhavanavâsins or Bhaumeyikas, of which there are ten
  orders, viz.—

     1. Asurakumâras;
     2. Nâgakumâras;
     3. Taḍitkumâras or Vidyutkumâras;
     4. Suvarṇa- or Suparnaka-kumâras;
     5. Agnikumâras;
     6. Dvîpakumâras (Dîvakumâras);
     7. Udadhikumâras;
     8. Dikkumâras;
     9. Pavana- or Vâta-kumâras;
    10. Ghaṇika- or Sanitakumâras.

  II. Vyantaras or Vâṇamantaras, who live
  in woods are of eight classes:—

     1. Piśâchas;
     2. Bhûtas;
     3. Yakshas;
     4. Râkshasas;
     5. Kimnaras;
     6. Kimpurushas;
     7. Mahoragas;
     8. Gandharvas.

  III. The Jyotishkas are the inhabitants of;

     1. Chandras or the moons;
     2. Sûryas or the suns;
     3. Grahas or the planets;
     4. Nakshatras or the constellations;
     5. Târâs or the hosts of stars.

  And IV. The Vaimânika gods are of two orders: (1) the Kalpabhavas, who
  are born in the heavenly Kalpas; and (2) the Kalpâtîtas, born in the
  regions above the Kalpas.

(1) The Kalpabhavas again are subdivided into twelve genera who live in the Kalpas after which
they are named; viz,—

 1. Saudharma;
 2. Îśâna;
 3. Sanatkumâra;
 4. Mâhendra;
 5. Brahmaloka;
 6. Lântaka;
 7. Śukra or Mahâśukla;
 8. Sahasrâra;
 9.  Ânata (Âṇaya);
10. Prâṇata (Pâṇaya);
11. Âraṇa;
12. Achyuta.

(2) The Kalpâtîtas are subdivided into—(a) the Graiveyakas, living on the upper part of the
universe; and (b) the Anuttaras or those above whom there are no others.

  (a) The Graiveyakas are of nine species, viz.—

   1. Sudarsaṇas;
   2. Supratipandhas;
   3. Maṇoramas;
   4. Sarvabhadras;
   5. Suviśâlas;
   6. Somaṇasas;
   7. Sumaṅkasas;
   8. Prîyaṅkaras;
   9. Âdityas or Nandikaras.

  (b) the Anuttara gods are of five orders: viz.—

   1. Vijayas;
   2. Vaijayantas;
   3. Jayantas;
   4. Aparâjitas; and
   5. Sarvârthasiddhas.

[Footnote: Conf. Ratnasâgara, bh. II, pp. 616, 617; Jour. Asiat. IXme Ser. tome XIX, p. 259;
Sac. Bks. E. vol. XLV, p. 226 f. See also Rev. de l'Histoire des Relig. tom. XLVII, pp. 34-50,
which has appeared since the above was written, for "La doctrine des êtres vivants dans la
Religion Jaina".]

These Anuttara gods inhabit the highest heavens where they live for varying lengths of time
as the heavens ascend; and in the fifth or highest—the great Vimâna called Sarvârthasiddha—they
all live thirty-three Sâgaropamas or periods of unimagiable duration. Still all the gods are
mortal or belong to the saṁsâra.

Above these is the paradise of the Siddhas or perfected souls, and the Uttarâdhyana Sûtra gives
the following details of this realm of the perfected, or the paradise of the Jainas:—[Footnote:
See ante, p. 11, note 10; The following extract is from Sac. Books of the East, vol. XLV, pp.
211-213.]

  "The perfected souls are those of women, men, hermaphrodites, of
  orthodox, heterodox, and householders. Perfection is reached by people
  of the greatest, smallest and middle size; [Footnote: The greatest
  size—ogâhaṇâ—of men is 500 dhanush or 2000 cubits, the
  smallest is one cubit.] on high places, underground, on the surface of
  the earth, in the ocean, and in waters (of rivers, etc.).

  "Ten hermaphrodites reach perfection at the same time, twenty women,
  one hundred and eight men; four householders, ten heterodox, and one
  hundred and eight orthodox monks.

  "Two individuals of the greatest size reach perfection
  (simultaneously), four of the smallest size, and one hundred and eight
  of the middle size. Four individuals reach perfection (simultaneously)
  on high places, two in the ocean, three in water, twenty underground;
  and where do they go on reaching perfection? Perfected souls are
  debarred from the non-world (Aloka); they reside on the top of the
  world; they leave their bodies here (below) and go there, on reaching
  perfection.

  "Twelve yojanas above the (Vimâna) Sarvârtha is the place called
  Îshatpragbhâra, which has the form of an umbrella; (there the
  perfected souls go). It is forty-five hundred thousand yojanas
  long, and as many broad, and it is somewhat more than three times as
  many in circumference. Its thickness is eight yojanas, it is
  greatest in the middle, and decreases towards the margin, till it is
  thinner than the wing of a fly. This place, by nature pure, consisting
  of white gold, resembles in form an open umbrella, as has been said by
  the best of Jinas.

  "(Above it) is a pure blessed place (called Śîtâ), which is white
  like a conch-shell, the anka-stone, and Kunda-flowers; [Footnote:
  The gourd Lagenaria vulgaris.] a yojana thence is the end of the
  world. The perfected souls penetrate the sixth part of the uppermost
  krośa of the (above-mentioned) yojana. There, at the
  top of the world reside the blessed perfected souls, rid of all
  transmigration, and arrived at the excellent state of perfection. The
  dimension of a perfected soul is two-thirds of the height which the
  individual had in his last existence.

  "The perfected souls considered singly—êgattêṇa (as
  individuals)—have a beginning but no end, considered
  collectively—puhuttêṇa (as a class)—they have neither a
  beginning nor an end. They have no (visible) form, they consist of
  life throughout, they are developed into knowledge and faith, they
  have crossed the boundary of the Saṁsâra, and reached the excellent
  state of perfection."

       *       *       *       *       *

Like both the Brâhmaṇs and Buddhists, the Jainas have a series of hells—Nârakas, numbering
even which they name—

 1. Ratnaprabhâ;
 2. Śarkarâprabhâ;
 3. Vâlukâprabhâ;
 4. Paṅkaprabhâ;
 5. Dhûmaprabhâ;
 6. Tamaprabhâ;
 7. Tamatamaprabhâ.

[Footnote: Ratnasâgara, bh. II, p. 607; Jour. As. u.s. p.  263.]

Those who inhabit the seventh hell have a stature of 500 poles, and in each above that they
are half the height of the one below it.

Everything in the system as to stature of gods and living beings, their ages and periods of
transmigration is reduced to artificial numbers.

The Jaina Gachhas.

About the middle of the tenth century there flourished a Jaina high priest named Uddyotana,
with whose pupils the eighty four gachhas originated. This number is still spoken of by the
Jainas, but the lists that have been hitherto published are very discordant. The following
was obtained from a member of the sect as being their recognised list,—and allowing for differences
of spelling, nearly every name may be recognised in those previously published by Mr. H. G.
Briggs or Colonel Miles.

The Eighty four Gachchhas of the Jainas. [Footnote: Those names marked * are found in Col.
Miles's list Tr. R. A. S. vol. III, pp. 358 f. 363, 365, 370. Those marked † are included in
H. G. Brigg's list,—Cities of Gujarashtra, p. 339.]

 1. ? *†                       43. Sopârîyâ*†
 2. Osvâla*†                  44. Mâṇḍalîyâ*†
 3. Âṅchala*                  45. Kochhîpanâ*†
 4. Jirâvalâ*†               46. Jâgaṁna*†
 5. Khaḍatara or Kharatara     47. Lâparavâla*†
 6. Lonkâ or Richmati*†       48. Vosaraḍâ*†
 7. Tapâ*†                    49. Düîvaṅdanîyâ*†
 8. Gaṁgeśvara*†            50. Chitrâvâla*†
 9. Koraṇṭavâla†          51. Vegaḍâ
10. Ânandapura†               52. Vâpaḍâ
11. Bharavalî                   53. Vîjaharâ, Vîjharâ*†
12. Uḍhavîyâ*†             54. Kâüpurî†
13. Gudâvâ*†                 55. Kâchala
14. Dekâüpâ or Dekâwâ*†           56. Haṁdalîyâ†
15. Bh nmâlâ†                        57. Mahukarâ†
16. Mahuḍîyâ*†             58. Putaliyâ*†
17. Gachhapâla*†              59. Kaṁnarîsey†
18. Goshavâla†                        60. Revarḍi̐yâ*†
19. Magatragagadâ†                    61. Dhandhukâ†
20. Vṛihmânîyâ†                   62. Thaṁbhanîpaṇâ*
21. Tâlârâ*†                        63. Paṁchîvâla†
22. Vîkaḍîyâ*†            64. Pâlaṇpurâ*
23. Muñjhîyâ*†              65. Gaṁdhârîyâ*†
24. Chitroḍâ†               66. Velîyâ†
25. Sâchorâ*†                67. Sâḍhapunamîyâ
26. Jachaṇḍîyâ†                  68. Nagarakoṭîyâ*†
27. Sîdhâlavâ*†             69. Hâsorâ*†
28. Mîyâṇṇîyâ                    70. Bhaṭanerâ*†
29. Âgamîyâ†                        71. Jaṇaharâ*†
30. Maladhârî*†                      72. Jagâyana*
31. Bhâvarîyâ†                      73. Bhîmasena*†
32. Palîvâla*†                       74. Takaḍîyâ†
33. Nâgadîgeśvara†          75. Kaṁboja*†
34. Dharmaghosha†              76. Senatâ†
35. Nâgapurâ*†               77. Vagherâ*†
36. Uchatavâla†               78. Vaheḍîyâ*
37. Nâṇṇâvâla*†         79. Siddhapura*†
38. Sâḍerâ*†               80. Ghogharî*†
39. Maṇḍovarâ*†           81. Nîgamîyâ
40. Śurâṇî*†                      82. Punamîyâ
41. Khaṁbhâvatî*†          83. Varhaḍîyâ†
42. Pâëchaṁda                84. Nâmîlâ.†

