We were beginning to have a good talk about Cornwall, and quaint Cornish ways and superstitions,
when out of the house came Mrs. Senter. The Venice people had just passed again, and were near
the hotel door as she appeared.

"Why, Sallie and George!" she exclaimed.

And "Why, Gwen!" the Venice lady answered.

They shook hands, the boy and all, and though Sir Lionel didn't pay much attention to what
was going on, I couldn't keep up our conversation. "Suppose they tell Mrs. Senter they met
me in Venice!" I said to myself. "What shall I do?"

Out of one corner of my eye I saw that they did speak of me, and she threw a quick, eager glance
in my direction. A minute or two later they all strolled on together, until they had come in
front of our seat. There Mrs. Senter paused, and said, "Sir Lionel, these are my friends, Mr.
and Mrs. Tyndal, of whom I think I must have spoken to you, and this is their cousin, Mr. Tom
Tyndal. They are touring in their motor, and arrived here this afternoon, a little before us.
Quite a coincidence, isn't it?" And then, as if on second thoughts, she added me to the introduction.

"Quite a coincidence," indeed! It never rains, but it pours coincidences, on any head that
is developing a criminal record.

The Tyndals paid Sir Lionel compliments, and seemed to be delighted to meet him, evidently
regarding him as a great celebrity, which, I suppose, he really is. Then, when they had made
him sufficiently uncomfortable (compliments are to him what a sudden plague of locusts would
be to most men), they turned to me.

"Surely we have met before, Miss Lethbridge?" remarked Mrs. Tyndal. And you ought to have seen
how Mrs. Senter's features sharpened, as she waited for me to stammer or blush.

As far as the blush was concerned, she had her money's worth; and I only didn't stammer because
I was obliged to stop and think before replying. I almost worshipped Sir Lionel when he answered
for me, in a quick, positive way he has, which there seems no gainsaying. I suppose men who
live in the East cultivate that, as it keeps natives from arguing and answering back.

"Impossible," said he, "unless it was at Versailles, where my ward has been at school since
she was a very small child, with no holidays except at St. Cloud."

"Mightn't it have been at Paris?" obligingly suggested Mrs. Senter, determined I shouldn't
be let off, if conviction of any sort were possible.

"No, I don't think it was at Paris," murmured Mrs. Tyndal, reflectively, eyeing me in the sunset
light, which was turning to pure amethyst. "Now, where could it have been? I seem to associate
your face with--with Italy."

Oh, my goodness! She was getting "warm" in our game of "hide the handkerchief."

"She has never been to Italy," said Sir Lionel, beginning to look rather cross, as if Mrs.
Tyndal were taking liberties with his belongings--of which, you see, he thinks me one.

"Not even--Venice?" she persisted. "Oh, yes, that is it! Now I know where I seem to have seen
you--at Venice. You remember, don't you, George?"

By this time sparks had lighted up in Sir Lionel's eyes, as if he were a Turk, and one of the
ladies of his harem were unjustly suspected.

"It is impossible for Mr. Tyndal to remember what didn't happen," he said, dropping a lump
of ice into his voice. "You saw someone who looked like her in Venice, perhaps, but not my ward."

I was almost sorry for the poor Tyndals, who meant no harm, though they had the air of being
so frightfully rich and prosperous that it seemed ridiculous to pity them.

"Of course, it could only have been a resemblance," said Mr. Tyndal, with that snubby glare
at Mrs. Tyndal which husbands and wives keep for each other.

"It must have been," she responded, taking up her cue; for naturally they didn't want to begin
their acquaintance with a distinguished person by offending him.

These signs of docility caused Sir Lionel to relent and come down off his high horse. Whenever
he has been at all haughty or impatient with his sister (whose denseness would sometimes try
a saint) he is sorry in a minute, and tries to be extra nice. It was the same now in the case
of the poor Tyndals, whose Etonian cousin had all the time been gazing up at him with awed
adoration, as of a hero on a pedestal; and suddenly a quaint thought struck me. I remembered
about the Bengalese Sir Lionel was supposed to have executed for some offence or other, and
I could see him being sorry immediately afterward, tearing around trying to stick their heads
on again, and saying pleasant words.

Well, he stuck the Tyndals' heads on very kindly, so that they almost forgot they'd ever been
slashed off; and when Mrs. Norton came out, which she did in a few minutes, looking as if she'd
washed the dust off her face with kitchen soap, we all strolled up and down together, till
it was time for dinner.

Mrs. Tyndal walked with me, but not a word did she say about Venice. That subject was to be
tabooed, but I'm far from sure she was convinced of her mistake, and she couldn't overcome
her intense interest in my features. However, she seems good-natured, as if even to please
Mrs. Senter she wouldn't care to do me a bad turn. Only, I don't think people do things from
motives as a rule, do you? They just suddenly find they want to do them, and presto, the things
are done! That's why the world's so exciting.

We chatted non-committally of cabbages and kings and automobiles; and I recalled tracing pneu-tracks
like illusive lights and shadows before us on the damp road, as we spun into Tintagel. No doubt
they were the pneus of the Tyndals.

Their table was next ours in the dining room, so close that motor-chat was tossed back and
forth, and it appeared that Mr. Tyndal was as proud of his car as a cat of its mouse. Mrs.
Tyndal's mice are her jewels, and she has droves of them, which she displayed at dinner. Afterward
she did lace-work, which made her rings gleam beautifully, and she said she didn't particularly
like doing it, but it was something to "kill time." How awful! But I suppose frightfully rich
people are like that. They sometimes get fatty degeneration of the soul.

Well, nothing more happened that evening, except that the Tyndal boy and I made great friends--quite
a nice boy, pining for some mischief that idle hands might do; and his cousins said that, as
we were going to stop several days at Tintagel, "making it a centre," they would stop, too.
Sir Lionel didn't appear overjoyed at the decision, but Mrs. Senter seemed glad. She and her
sister, Mrs. Burden, have known the Tyndals for years, and are by way of being friends, yet
she works off her little firework epigrams against them when their backs are turned, as she
does on everybody. According to her, their principal charm for society in London is their cook;
and she says the art treasures in their house are all illegitimate; near-Gobelin, not-quite-Raphaels,
and so on. She makes Sir Lionel smile; but I wonder if she'd adopt this cheap method if he'd
ever mentioned to her (as he has to me) that of all meannesses he despises disloyalty?

The Tyndal boy went up to bed before the rest of us, and when Sir Lionel and Mrs. Norton had
been forced to play bridge with Mrs. Senter and Mr. Tyndal, I slipped away, too.

We'd lived in the hotel such a short time, and it's so big, that I counted on recognizing my
room by the boots which I put outside the door when I went down to sunset and dinner. Of course,
I'd forgotten my number, as I always do. I wouldn't consider myself a normal girl if I didn't.

There were the boots, not taken away yet--looking abject, as boots do in such situations--but
I was pleased to see that they compared favourably in size with the gray alligator-skin and
patent leather eccentricities of Mrs. Senter, reposing on an adjacent doormat. With this frivolous
reflection in my mind, it didn't occur to me, as I turned the handle of the door marked by
my brown footgear, that the room now appeared farther to the left, along the passage, than
I had the impression of its being. I opened the door, which was not locked, walked in, felt
about for the electric light, switched it on, and had sauntered over to a table in the centre
of the room before I noticed anything strange. Then, to my startled vision appeared unfamiliar
brushes and combs on a chest of drawers; beautiful, but manly looking silver-backed ones; and
along the wall was a row of flat tweed legs, on stretchers.

For an instant I stood still, bewildered, as if I'd walked into a dream, beguiled by a false
clue of boots; and during my few seconds of temporary aberration my dazed eyes fell upon a
book which lay on the table. It was Sir Lionel's "Morte d'Arthur" (second volume; he's lent
me the first), and in it for a marker was a glove of mine. I'd lost it at Torquay, after we
had our dear, good talk, and he knew I was looking for it, all about the sitting room we had
at the hotel there, yet he never said a word.

Oh, dear little French mother, you can't think what an odd feeling it gave me to see he had
kept my glove, and had put it in his book! Yes, I believe you can think, too, because probably
you've felt just like that yourself when you were a girl, only you never thought it convenable
to describe your symptoms for your daughter's benefit. I know it was perfectly schoolgirlish
of me, and I ought to have outgrown such sentimentality with my teens; but if you could see
Sir Lionel, and understand the sort of man he is, you wouldn't think me so outrageous. That
he--he, of all men--should care to keep anything which would remind him of an insignificant
child like me! I'm afraid there came a prickly feeling in my eyelids, and I had the most idiotic
desire to kiss the book, which I knew would have a nice smell of his cigarettes, because my
borrowed volume has. Of course, I wouldn't have done it for anything, though, so don't think
I'm worse than I am. And really, really, I don't believe I'm exactly in love. I hope I'm not
so foolish. It's just a kind of infatuated fascination of a moth--not for a candle, but for
a great, brilliant motor lamp. I've seen them at night dashing themselves against the glass
of our Bleriots once or twice when we've been out late, and I know how hopelessly they smash
their soft, silly wings. I should have been like them if I'd kissed the book; but instead,
after that one look which told me the glove really was my glove, I bounced out of the room,
snatching my boots up as I dashed across the threshold.

Bump! as I did so I almost telescoped with Sir Lionel who had retrieved his boots, probably
from my doormat. And at the same moment came a boyish yelp from somewhere, followed by the
smart slap of a door shutting. I wished it had been a smart slap of my hand on the Tyndal boy's
ear, for of course the boot-changing was that little fiend's work, I guessed in a second.

So did Sir Lionel, and we both laughed--at ourselves, at each other, and everything. It seems
that the Youthful Horror had changed every pair of boots along the corridor, and made the most
weird combinations. I don't suppose Sir Lionel thought about the glove in the book, anyway
at the time, and luckily there was nothing tell-tale in my room, in case he strayed in, except
your photograph in the silver frame you gave me on my last birthday. And of course he could
make nothing of that.

He had got out of playing bridge, because when Mrs. Tyndal saw he wasn't keen, she offered
to take a hand, and he said he did want to write to a man in Bengal, his best friend.

We talked to each other only a few minutes, after the boot-puzzle had been put right; but would
you believe it, up came Mrs. Senter, while Sir Lionel and I were bidding each other good night
in front of my door? She looked as stiff and wicked as a frozen snake for an instant; then
she smiled too sweetly, and said she'd come for her Spanish lace mantilla. But I almost know
she had fancied that Sir Lionel might have made an excuse to get a word with me, and had flown
up to find out for herself.

You can imagine, dear, that I didn't feel much like going to bed when I'd finished saying good-night,
and shut my door upon the world. It seemed to me that this birthplace of Sir Lionel's ancestor,
King Arthur Pendragon, was too romantic and wonderful to go tamely to sleep in. And what was
my covered balcony for, if not to dream dreams and think thoughts, by moonlight?

So I switched off the electricity in my room, and went out to find that the moon (which is
big and grand now) had come out, too, tearing apart a great black cloud in order to look down
on Arthur-land, and see if she had any adorers. Anyway, she must have seen me, for she turned
the night into silver dawn, so clear and bright that she couldn't have missed me if she tried.

I did wish for you to be with me then, and I'm ashamed to confess I wouldn't have minded Sir
Lionel as a companion, because Tintagel seems so much more his than mine.

Never did I hear the sea talk poetry and legend as it does round those dark rocks of old "Dundagel."
I thought as I leaned out from my balcony, a lonely, unappreciated Juliet--that the sound was
like the chanting voice of an ancient bard, telling stories of the golden days to himself or
to all who might care to listen. I fancied I could hear the words:

    They found a naked child upon the sands
    Of dark Dundagel by the Cornish sea.

I could see the ruined castle, on its twin cliffs, below the hotel-castle cliff and between
me and the sea; and the very meagreness of what remains seemed to increase the interest and
mystery by stimulating the imagination, forcing it to create its own pictures. I "reconstructed"
the castle, building it of the same stone they use now at Tintagel, and have used for the last
thousand years or so; a dark stone, singularly rich with colour--pansy and wallflower colour,
with splashes of green flung on to dead gray, like bright autumn leaves stirred into a heap
of other leaves dim and dead. And the mortar for my masonry was the moonlight which flooded
the sea and those wide downs whose divisions into fields turned them into enormous maps.

I worked myself up into such a romantic mood that I almost cried in the joy and pain of living,
and expected to look back upon myself with the "utmost spurn" when I should come back to real
life after a good sleep in the morning. But I didn't,--perhaps because, instead of encouraging
the good sleep, I lay and listened to the wild song of the Cornish wind.

I waked early, feeling exactly the same, if not more so, and could hardly wait to get down
into the ruins of the old castle. I splashed about in a cold bath, dressed as quickly as a
well-groomed girl can, and then--I committed what might seem an indiscreet act if the last
of the Pendragons and I did not stand toward each other in the place of guardian and ward.
"Nothing is, but thinking makes it so." And Sir Lionel certainly does think we're in those
positions; therefore it was all right for me to knock at his door, and ask through the keyhole
if he would very, very much mind taking me to the castle?

He was dressed, and opened the door instantly. It was the one thing he would have liked to
propose, said he, only he had been afraid of disturbing me so early. Wasn't that kind of him?
I remembered the glove, and the thought of it was more delicious than a breakfast of Cornish
cream and honey; although, of course, lurking in the background of my mind was the horrid idea
that he might have accidentally picked the thing up to use as a bookmark. And another idea,
gloomier even, though not so horrid, was that, even if he does like me well enough to keep
things of mine, he must soon grow to hate me when he knows who I am.

He suggested coffee, but I wouldn't have it, because I was afraid Mrs. Senter might appear
and want to go to the castle too. I had visions of her, hearing our voices in the corridor,
and dashing out of bed to fling on her clothes; but even if she did overhear the whole conversation,
I don't think she's the kind who looks her best before breakfast, if she has dressed in a hurry;
and anyway, we were spared the apparition.

It was a fine scramble getting to the ruins, and when Sir Lionel had opened a door (with a
key you get from a cottage close by the sea) it was quite as if he were my host, entertaining
me in his ancestral home. I told him that it felt twice as interesting to be there with a true
Pendragon, than with a mere king or anybody like that, and he seemed pleased.

"I hope I am a 'true' Pendragon," he said, rather thoughtfully. "One must try to be--always."
He looked at me very, very kindly, as if he would have liked to say something more; but he
didn't speak, and turned away his eyes to look far over the sea. It was only for a little while,
though, that he was absent-minded. Sitting there on the rough, wind-blown grass which is the
floor of the castle now, he told me things about the place and its history. How Dundagel meant
the "Safe Castle," and how the "Arthurian believers" say it was built by the Britons in earliest
Roman days; how David Bruce of Wales was entertained by the Earl of Cornwall on the very spot
where we were sitting, and how the great hall, once famous, was destroyed as long ago as when
Chaucer was a baby. And as he talked, the rising wind wailed and sobbed like old, old witches
crying over the evil fallen on Arthur and his castle. Such an old, wise-sounding wind it was,
old enough to have been blowing when Arthur was a baby, drowning the lullabies sung by his
mother Igerna, "that greatest beauty in Britain."

We forgot breakfast, and stopped in the ruins a long time, until suddenly we both realized
that we were desperately hungry. But instead of going up to our own hotel, we walked into the
quaint village (whose real name is Trevena, though nobody calls it that) and had something
to eat at a hotel where Sir Lionel used to stop occasionally when he was a boy. Afterward,
we went to see the village schoolmaster, whom he knew; such a nice man, who paints pictures
as well as teaches the children--and I felt guilty at being introduced as Sir Lionel's "ward."
I think my conscience is like a bruised peach, pinched by many fingers to see if it's ripe,
I have that guilty feeling so often! When we spoke of the schoolmaster's versatility, he laughed
and said it was "nothing to his predecessor's," who used to cut the children's hair, clip horses,
measure land, act as parish clerk as well as teacher, pull teeth, and beat such transgressors
as had to be punished in a way less serious than prison. Doesn't that take one back to long
ago? But so does everything in Tintagel--and all over Cornwall, Sir Lionel says. They have
such nice old-fashioned words here! Isn't "jingle" good? It's some kind of a conveyance, exactly
the opposite of a motor-car, I fancy, from the description. And I like the word "huer," too.
It means a man who gives the hue and cry when the pilchards are coming in, and all the fishermen
must run to the sea.

I should like to know everything about Cornwall, from the smugglers, and the famous wrestlers,
to the witches--the last of whom lives near Boscastle still. But the little that travellers
in motors can learn about places steeped in history, is like trying to know all about a beautiful
great tree by one leaf of flying gold which falls into the automobile as it sweeps by, along
the road. Still, the little one does learn is unforgettable, impressed upon the mind in a different
way from the mere learning. And I suppose few people know everything about every place, even
in their own countries. If they did, I'm sure they'd be prigs, and no one would want to know them!

When we got back to our hotel castle on the cliff, the Tyndals' motor was at the door, a huge,
gorgeous chariot, and nothing would do but we must "try the car." Mrs. Senter had promised
to go, and was putting on her hat.

The Tyndals are difficult people to resist, because if you try to make excuses they pin you
down in one way or another, so that you must either do what they want or hurt their feelings;
and though Sir Lionel is supposed to have been so strict in Bengal, he is quite soft-hearted
in England. I think he hates going about in motors that aren't his, because he enjoys being
the man at the helm, which is perhaps characteristic of him; however, the Tyndals swept all
of us, except Mrs. Norton, away to Delabole to see the slate quarries, and to have the adventure
of sliding down a fearfully steep incline in a tiny trolley-car--if that's the right word for
it. I half expected Charon to meet me with his ferry-boat at the bottom. It wouldn't have seemed
much stranger than other things in Cornwall.

All that happened yesterday. To-day we have been to Trebarwith Strand and Port Isaac, and have
walked to the loneliest church I ever saw, with the gravestones in the burying ground propped
by buttresses, that the wind mayn't throw them down. It is Tintagel church, though it's a good
long way from the village, and the vicarage is of the fourteenth century.

Oh, and I heard a splendid legend about the ruined castle from the vicar, who is its warden!
It seems, when it was built by the old princes of West Wales--very beautiful as well as strong,
with walls "painted of many colours," it was placed under a powerful spell by Merlin, that
it might become invisible twice in every year. How I should like to be at Tintagel at the right
time, and see if the ruins would disappear from before my eyes. I believe they would; and the
enchantment would take the form of a sea mist.

To-morrow we are to leave Cornwall for Bideford.

I had got as far as that, when Mrs. Senter knocked at my door, and asked if she might come
in for a few minutes; so I had to say yes, and "smile full well in counterfeited glee." But
I hated to be interrupted, as there was just time before dressing for dinner to finish my letter
to you. Now it is after dinner, and before I go to bed, I'll tell you what has happened.

How conceited I was to suppose it possible that Sir Lionel thought me an important person!
I am sure the glove episode must have been a mere accident. Serves me right!

Mrs. Senter came to tell me that they'd all been talking about the way to Bideford, and Sir
Lionel said the road was so hilly, he wished we hadn't quite as many passengers in the car.
Then the Tyndals asked if they might take me, because they'd made up their minds to go to Bideford
too, and Sir Lionel answered that it would be a splendid way out of the difficulty if I were
willing. The only trouble was, he didn't like to propose such a thing for fear of hurting my
feelings; and the conversation ended, according to Mrs. Senter, by the Tyndals planning to
suggest the idea to me as if it were their own, then letting the matter rest on my decision.

Mrs. Senter went on to explain that Sir Lionel didn't know she was repeating to me what had
passed, but that she thought I would prefer to know. "I'm sure I should if I were in your place,"
she purred sweetly. "When the Tyndals invite you, of course you must do exactly as you please;
but don't you think for Mrs. Norton's sake, as she's such a coward, it would be best to keep
the car as light as possible, since Sir Lionel fears the roads are really bad?"

"Oh, certainly," said I, trying so hard not to blush that I must have been purple. "I shall
be delighted to go with Mr. and Mrs. Tyndal, in their lovely car, and it's very nice of them
to ask me."

"You won't tell Sir Lionel I interfered, will you?" she begged. "I should be quite afraid of
him if he were angry."

"You needn't worry. He shan't hear anything from me," said I.

"And you do think I was right to let you know?" she implored.

"Of course," I assured her. But I was feeling hurt all the way up to my topmost hair and down
to my tipmost toe. Not that I mind going with the Tyndals, but that Sir Lionel should pick
me out as the bit of superfluous ballast to cast to the winds! That was what made me feel cold
and old, and alone in the world. I conscientiously told myself that I was the youngest of the
party, and the right one to sacrifice; but nothing was much comfort until the thought jumped
into my head that maybe Mrs. Senter had fibbed. I went to dinner buoyed up by that hope, but
it died young; for the Tyndals did invite me, in Sir Lionel's hearing; and when I said that
I should be charmed--he smiled calmly. So far from making objections, I thought he looked quite
pleased.

Poor me! I fancied in the castle ruins that he actually liked my society. But I forgot that
I'd invited him to go with me. I shan't forget again. And hang the glove!

Your poor, foolish, conceited, humiliated

Audrie.

XX

TELEGRAM FROM DICK BURDEN TO HIS AUNT

Glen Lachlan, August 13th, 8 o'clock A.M.

Senter, King Arthur's Castle, Tintagel, Cornwall:

Returning to-day. Hope find you still at Tintagel. Try and make Pendragon stay if he plans
to leave. Find some excuse.

Dick.

XXI

TELEGRAM FROM MRS. SENTER TO HER NEPHEW

Tintagel, August 13th, 9.20 A.M.

R. Burden, Glen Lachlan, N. B.

Just starting for Bideford. Can make no excuse to delay, but have done better. If you arrive
Tintagel to-night will find member of party most important to you still there. Better hurry.
Will leave letter explaining all.

Senter.

XXII

LETTER LEFT BY MRS. SENTER AT KING ARTHUR'S CASTLE HOTEL, FOR HER NEPHEW DICK BURDEN

August 13th

Dear Dick: Your wire has just come as we are starting. I've telegraphed, and will leave a few
words for you in pencil. Lucky you have a resourceful relative, and that Mrs. Norton's washing
didn't come till late this morning! My resourcefulness enables me to change my plans for your
benefit, or rather, to make them work together for your good, in the time most women take to
change their minds; while the lateness of Mrs. N.'s washing and her mild obstinacy in determining
to wait for it, against her brother's wishes, provide us with a few extra minutes.

Now it suddenly appears that Young Nick hasn't enough petrol to get on as far as--anywhere.
That will give us more minutes. Brown Buddha, as your adored one calls him, has crawled humbly
but swiftly off to obtain a new supply. Sir Lionel, already in a vile temper for reasons which
I may have time to explain, is bursting with rage to which he is too proud to give a natural
outlet. He looks ready to explode, not with bombs, but with dambs. I have never heard him say
a single one, during the whole of our acquaintance, but his eyes are sending out a fiery cataract
of them this minute. A good thing for me he doesn't know what I know, or the fire would be
turned upon me, and I should wither like "She" in her second bath.

Quickly I'll tell you what I've done, and why Sir Lionel is wild; also how I've rearranged
everything and everybody at the last minute, in order to satisfy you. What a precious darling
aunt you have got, to be sure, and what a lot you do owe her!

For motives of my own, I planned to transplant your sweet Ellaline from our motor-car to the
motor-car of others for the day. The "others" are George and Sallie Tyndal, about whose sudden,
apropos appearance I wrote your mother only yesterday; but, of course, as you're leaving to-day
you'll miss the news in that letter. I thought your anxiety for your parent's health would
hardly be poignant enough to keep you in Scotland long, but I didn't suppose you'd be able
to tear yourself away quite so soon.

I don't doubt you wonder how it can be possible for me to have too much of dear E.'s society,
but strange as that may seem, it can; and worse than that, I dislike Sir Lionel getting too
much of it. I don't think it is good for him; and he's had enough of the commodity since we've
been in Tintagel to produce, according to my point of view and yours, disastrous effects. I
decided that drastic measures were necessary for both our sakes, and with me to decide is to
act--when anything really important is at stake.

First I persuaded the Tyndals that it would be kindly to invite Miss Lethbridge to travel in
their motor to Bideford, whither they also are bound. I said that Sir Lionel feared we would
be rather a crowd for his car, as the roads are supposed to be bad. This flattered them, for
their motor, which is somewhat more powerful than ours, is the one object for which they live
at present. Besides, they were delighted at the chance of getting the girl to themselves, as
they think they met her years ago in Italy, where it is alleged she has never been. Some school
girl escapade, perhaps. You had better do a little catechising, later on. Meanwhile, the Tyndals
yearn for the opportunity of pumping. Sir Lionel has quite fiercely prevented them from doing
so, up to date. He looked ready to challenge poor George to a duel the other evening for merely
suggesting that they might have met Miss Lethbridge in Venice.

To Sir L. I hinted that Ellaline was bored, now that you were gone, and that she would enjoy
the change of travelling for a day with new people; that she had taken a fancy to the Tyndal
boy; and I added that she had asked me privately whether I thought that Sir Lionel would object
to her accepting, provided the Tyndals wanted her to go to Bideford. Naturally, when the invitation
came, he did not object. You'd have laughed if you could have seen her face when he smiled
with apparent benevolent delight upon the suggestion. The sight would have repaid you for many
a snub, my poor love-sick swain!

That was where matters stood till your telegram came, a few minutes ago. All I hoped for was,
to get rid of the dear child for one long, happy day, and to estrange her a little (partly
for your sake) from her solicitous guardian. But your wire set another bee humming in my motor-bonnet.
I determined to do you a good turn if I could; so I flew up, before answering you, to have
a talk with the Tyndals. They were starting a few minutes after us, by my advice, and hadn't
come downstairs yet. Ellaline, too, was still in her room, sulking, no doubt, and hadn't said
good-bye to Sir Lionel or any of us. I know that, because my room at this hotel has been close
to hers--and to his, too; so whenever a word is murmured on a doorstep I hear. No word has
been murmured this morning; and E. has had her breakfast sent into her bedroom.

