"My guest is a Roumia, and it is not forbidden that she show her face to men," answered Hsina's
mistress. "She will travel veiled, because, for reasons that do not concern thee, it is wiser.
But she is free to appear before the Lord Maïeddine. Bring her; and remember this, when I am
gone. If to a living soul outside this house thou speakest of the Roumia maiden, or even of
my journey, worse things will happen to thee than tearing thy tongue out by the roots."

"So thou saidst last night to me, and to all the others," the negress answered, like a sulky
child. "As we are faithful, it is not necessary to say it again." Without waiting to be scolded
for her impudence, as she knew she deserved, she went out, to return five minutes later with
Victoria.

Maïeddine's eyes lighted when he saw the girl in Arab dress. It seemed to him that she was
far more beautiful, because, like all Arabs, he detested the severe cut of a European woman's
gowns. He loved bright colours and voluptuous outlines.

It was only beginning to be daylight when they left the house and went out to the carriage
in which Victoria had been driven the night before. She and Lella M'Barka were both veiled,
though there was no eye to see them. Hsina and Fafann took out several bundles, wrapped in
dark red woollen haïcks, and the Negro servants carried two curious trunks of wood painted
bright green, with coloured flowers and scrolls of gold upon them, and shining, flat covers
of brass. In these was contained the luggage from the house; Maïeddine's had already gone to
the railway station. He wore a plain, dark blue burnous, with the hood up, and his chin and
mouth were covered by the lower folds of the small veil which fell from his turban, as if he
were riding in the desert against a wind storm. It would have been impossible even for a friend
to recognize him, and the two women in their white veils were like all native women of wealth
and breeding in Algiers. Hsina was crying, and Fafann, who expected to go with her mistress,
was insufferably important. Victoria felt that she was living in a fairy story, and the wearing
of the veil excited and amused her. She was happy, and looked forward to the journey itself
as well as to the journey's end.

There were few people in the railway station, and Victoria saw no European travellers. Maïeddine
had taken the tickets already, but he did not tell her the name of the place to which they
were going by rail. She would have liked to ask, but as neither Si Maïeddine nor Lella M'Barka
encouraged questions, she reminded herself that she could easily read the names of the stations
as they passed.

Soon the train came in, and Maïeddine put them into a first-class compartment, which was labelled
"reserved," though all other Arabs were going second or third. Fafann arranged cushions and
haïcks for Lella M'Barka; and at six o'clock a feeble, sulky-sounding trumpet blew, signalling
the train to move out of the station.

Victoria was not sleepy, though she had lain awake thinking excitedly all night; but Lella
M'Barka bade her rest, as the day would be tiring. No one talked, and presently Fafann began
to snore. The girl's eyes met Si Maïeddine's, and they smiled at each other. This made him
seem to her more like an ordinary human being than he had seemed before.

After a while, she dropped into a doze, and was surprised when she waked up, to find that it
was nearly nine o'clock. Fafann had roused her by moving about, collecting bundles. Soon they
would be "there." And as the train slowed down, Victoria saw that "there" was Bouira.

This place was the destination of a number of Arab travellers, but the instant they were out
of the train, these passengers appeared to melt away unobtrusively. Only one carriage was waiting,
and that was for Si Maïeddine and his party.

It was a very different carriage from Lella M'Barka's, in Algiers; a vehicle for the country,
Victoria thought it not unlike old-fashioned chaises in which farmers' families sometimes drove
to Potterston, to church. It had side and back curtains of canvas, which were fastened down,
and an Arab driver stood by the heads of two strong black mules.

"This carriage belongs to a friend of mine, a Caïd," Maïeddine explained to Victoria. "He has
lent it to me, with his driver and mules, to use as long as I wish. But we shall have to change
the mules often, before we begin at last to travel in a different way."

"How quickly thou hast arranged everything," exclaimed the girl.

This was a welcome sign of appreciation, and Maïeddine was pleased. "I sent the Caïd a telegram,"
he said. "And there were many more telegrams to other places, far ahead. That is one good thing
which the French have brought to our country. The telegraph goes to the most remote places
in the Sahara. By and by, thou wilt see the poles striding away over desert dunes."

"By and by! Dost thou mean to-day?" asked Victoria.

"No, it will be many days before thou seest the great dunes. But thou wilt see them in the
end, and I think thou wilt love them as I do. Meanwhile, there will be other things of interest.
I shall not let thee tire of the way, though it be long."

He helped them into the carriage, the invalid first, then Victoria, and got in after them;
Fafann, muffled in her veil, sitting on the seat beside the driver.

"By this time Mr. Knight has my letter, and has read it," the girl said to herself. "Oh, I
do hope he won't be disgusted, and think me ungrateful. How glad I shall be when the day comes
for me to explain."

As it happened, the letter was in Maïeddine's thoughts at the same moment. It occurred to him,
too, that it would have been read by now. He knew to whom it had been written, for he had got
a friend of his to bring him a list of passengers on board the Charles Quex on her last trip
from Marseilles to Algiers. Also, he had learned at whose house Stephen Knight was staying.

Maïeddine would gladly have forgotten to post the letter, and could have done so without hurting
his conscience. But he had thought it might be better for Knight to know that Miss Ray was
starting on a journey, and that there was no hope of hearing from her for a fortnight. Victoria
had been ready to show him the letter, therefore she had not written any forbidden details;
and Knight would probably feel that she must be left to manage her own affairs in her own way.
No doubt he would be curious, and ask questions at the Hotel de la Kasbah, but Maïeddine believed
that he had made it impossible for Europeans to find out anything there, or elsewhere. He knew
that men of Western countries could be interested in a girl without being actually in love
with her; and though it was almost impossible to imagine a man, even a European, so cold as
not to fall in love with Victoria at first sight, he hoped that Knight was blind enough not
to appreciate her, or that his affections were otherwise engaged. After all, the two had been
strangers when they came on the boat, or had met only once before, therefore the Englishman
had no right to take steps unauthorized by the girl. Altogether, Maïeddine thought he had reason
to be satisfied with the present, and to hope in the future.

XXI

Stephen and Nevill Caird returned from Tlemcen to Algiers, hoping for news of Victoria, but
there was none; and after two days they left for Grand Kabylia.

The prophetic birds at Mansourah had flown in a south-easterly direction, but when Stephen
and Nevill started in search of Josette's maid Mouni, they turned full east, their faces looking
towards the dark heights of Kabylia. It was not Victoria they hoped to find there, however,
or Saidee her sister, but only a hint as to their next move. Nevertheless, Nevill was superstitious
about the birds, and said to Stephen when the car had run them out of Algiers, past Maison
Carré, into open country: "Isn't it queer how the birds follow us? I never saw so many before.
They're always with us. It's just as if they'd passed on word, the way chupatties are passed
on in India, eh? Or maybe Josette has told her protegées to look after us."

And Stephen smiled, for Nevill's superstitions were engaging, rather than repulsive; and his
quaintnesses were endearing him more and more to the man who had just taken up the dropped
thread of friendship after eight or nine years. What an odd fellow Nevill was! Stephen thought,
indulgently. No wonder he was worshipped by his servants, and even his chauffeur. No wonder
Lady MacGregor adored her nephew, though treating him as if he were a little boy!

One of Nevill's idiosyncrasies, after arranging everything to fit a certain plan, was to rush
off at the last minute and do something entirely different. Last night--the night before starting
for Grand Kabylia--he had begged Stephen to be ready by eight, at which time the car was ordered.
At nine--having sat up till three o'clock writing letters, and then having visited a lately
imported gazelle in its quarters--Nevill was still in his bath. At length he arrived on the
scene, beaming, with a sulky chameleon in his pocket, and flew about giving last directions,
until he suddenly discovered that there was a violent hurry, whereupon he began to be boyishly
peevish with the chauffeur for not getting off an hour ago. No sooner had the car started,
however, than he fell into a serious mood, telling Stephen of many things which he had thought
out in the night--things which might be helpful in finding Victoria. He had been lying awake,
it seemed, brooding on this subject, and it had occurred to him that, if Mouni should prove
a disappointment, they might later discover something really useful by going to the annual
ball at the Governor's palace. This festivity had been put off, on account of illness in the
chief official's family; but it would take place in a fortnight or so now. All the great Aghas
and Caïds of the south would be there, and as Nevill knew many of them, he might be able to
get definite information concerning Ben Halim. As for Saidee--to hear of Ben Halim was to hear
of her. And then it was, in the midst of describing the ball, and the important men who would
attend, that Nevill suddenly broke off to be superstitious about birds.

It was true that the birds were everywhere! little greenish birds flitting among the trees;
larger grey-brown birds flying low; fairy-like blue and yellow birds that circled round the
car as it ran east towards the far, looming mountains of the Djurdjura; larks that spouted
music like a fountain of jewels as they soared into the quivering blue; and great, stately
storks, sitting in their nests on tall trees or tops of poles, silhouetted against the sky
as they gazed indifferently down at the automobile.

"Josette would tell us it's splendid luck to see storks on their nests," said Nevill. "Arabs
think they bring good fortune to places. That's why people cut off the tops of the trees and
make nests for them, so they can bless the neighbourhood and do good to the crops. Storks have
no such menial work here as bringing babies. Arab babies have to come as best they can--sent
into the world anyhow; for storks are men who didn't do their religious duties in the most
approved style, so they have to revisit the world next time in the form of beneficent birds."

But Nevill did not want to answer questions about storks and their habits. He had tired of
them in a moment, and was passionately interested in mules. "There ought to be an epic written
about the mules of North Africa!" he exclaimed. "I tell you, it's a great subject. Look at
those poor brave chaps struggling to pull carts piled up with casks of beastly Algerian wine,
through that sea of mud, which probably goes all the way through to China. Aren't they splendid?
Wait till you've been in this country as long as I have, and you'll respect mules as I do,
from army mules down to the lowest dregs of the mule kingdom. I don't ask you to love them--and
neither do they. But how they work here in Africa--and never a groan! They go on till they
drop. And I don't believe half of them ever get anything to eat. Some day I'm going to start
a Rest Farm for tired mules. I shall pay well for them. A man I know did write a pæan of praise
for mules. I believe I'll have it translated into Arabic, and handed about as a leaflet. These
natives are good to their horses, because they believe they have souls, but they treat their
mules like the dirt under their feet." And Nevill began quoting here and there a verse or a
line he remembered of the "mule music," chanting in time to the throbbing of the motor.

     "Key A minor, measure common,
     One and two and three and four and--
     Every hoof-beat half a second
     Every hoof-beat linked with heart-beat,
     Every heart-beat nearer bursting.
     Andantino sostenuto:
     In the downpour or the dryness,
     Hottest summer, coldest winter;
     Sick and sore and old and feeble,
     Hourly, hourly; daily, daily,
     From the sunrise to the setting;
     From the setting to the sunrise
     Scarce a break in all the circle
     For the rough and scanty eating,
     For the scant and muddy drinking,
     For the fitful, fearful resting,
     For the master haunted-sleeping.
     Dreams in dark of God's far heaven
     Tempo primo; tempo sempre."

And so, through pools of wild flowers and the blood of poppies, their road led to wild mountain
scenery, then into the embrace of the Djurdjura mountains themselves--evil, snow-splashed,
sterile-seeming mountains, until the car had passed the fortified town of Tizi Ouzou, an overgrown
village, whose name Stephen thought like a drunken term of endearment. It was market-day there,
and the long street was so full of Kabyles dressed apparently in low-necked woollen bags, of
soldiers in uniform, of bold-eyed, scantily-clad children, and of dyed sheep and goats, that
the car had to pass at a walk. Nevill bought a good deal of Kabyle jewellery, necklaces and
long earrings, or boxes enamelled in crude greens and reds, blues and yellows. Not that he
had not already more than he knew what to do with; but he could not resist the handsome unveiled
girls, the wretched old women, or pretty, half-naked children who offered the work of the neighbouring
hill villages, or family heirlooms. Sometimes he saw eyes which made him think of Josette's;
but then, all beautiful things that he saw reminded him of her. She was an obsession. But,
for a wonder, he had taken Stephen's advice in Tlemcen and had not proposed again. He was still
marvelling at his own strength of mind, and asking himself if, after all, he had been wise.

