The following story is well known in Carmarthenshire:--A farmer going out one morning very
early to fetch his horses from pasture, heard some delicious music, far sweeter he thought
(no doubt) than ever bard produced from his telyn (harp); and being allured by it, as we read
of men being allured of old by the enchanting voices of Sirens, he proceeded to the place whence
the strains seemed to issue, and in a sequestered retreat beheld the elves footing it merrily.
Wishing perhaps to obtain more extensive knowledge of these "dear little creatures," he had
the magnanimity to enter the ring, with the intention of joining their matachin, and soon had
his desire gratified, for there they kept him, dancing away, night and day, without intermission.
If every fair dancer joined the Tylwyth teg's dance, how many beings would be danced out of
the world?

This is credited, he informs me, in some parts of North Wales, at the present day. Two men
travelling together, happened to be benighted soon after entering a wood, and one of them being
fatigued, sat down and slept, but when he awoke could no where discover his companion; thinking
he had travelled on, he proceeded, but when he arrived at home, was astonished at the inquiries
respecting his fellow, and related that he had lost him while he slept. As there seemed to
be a mystery in the case, the relatives of the absent individual went to the village wizard,
who informed them that he was in the power and hands of the fairies, but if they would go to
the place where he was missed by his companion, just a year after that time, they would see
him dancing with them, when they were to rescue him. After the year had elapsed, they went
and found it as the conjuror had said;--whereupon one of them dragged the man out of the ring,
who immediately asked if it was not better to proceed home, imagining it was the same night,
and that he was with his companion. One of the people presented him with some victuals, which
he began to eat, but had no sooner done so, than he mouldered away.

Wishing the juvenile author all success in his future essays, we commend his present work to
the lovers of superstitious lore, and to the substantial notice of the very reverend personage
already alluded to.

       *       *       *       *       *

THE GATHERER.

  A snapper up of unconsidered trifles.
  SHAKSPEARE.

       *       *       *       *       *

THE REFORM BILL.

(For the Mirror.)

The debate relating to the Reform Bill lasted seven nights. There are many curious circumstances
attached to the number seven--viz. the seven golden candlesticks, the seven wise men of the
east, the seven colours, the seven sounds, the seven stars, the seven wonders of the world.
Ancient Rome was built upon seven hills, &c. The gift of prophecy and the power of healing
is attributed to the seventh son of a seventh son. When the several members rose late, or rather
early in the morning on the seventh night's debate on the Reform Bill, the House caught the
idea of Macbeth, and exclaimed, "Another yet! a seventh! I'll see no more'!"--and the House
of Russell dispersed the House of Commons.

P.T.W.

       *       *       *       *       *

EPITAPH.

The following lines were written by my father, on the death of his first child, who died in
infancy:--W.H.H.

  Nipt in the bud, the father's hope here sleeps,
  And o'er her first-born child the mother weeps.
  Why weep! the disencumber'd soul that's flown
  Now shines another cherub round the throne!
  Ah! who can tell what cares, what hopes, what fears,
  Had been the portion of its lengthen'd years?

  A better lot proportion'd Heaven  design'd,
  And bade it leave this sin-fraught world behind!

       *       *       *       *       *

PATRIOTISM.

