Myths & Legends of China

                                   By

                             E.T.C. Werner

  H.B.M. Consul Foochow (Retired) Barrister-at-law Middle Temple Late
    Member of The Chinese Government Historiographical Bureau Peking
 Author of "Descriptive Sociology: Chinese" "China of the Chinese" Etc.

                      George G. Harrap & Co. Ltd.
                          London Bombay Sydney

In Memoriam

Gladys Nina Chalmers Werner

Preface

The chief literary sources of Chinese myths are the Li tai shên hsien t'ung chien, in thirty-two
volumes, the Shên hsien lieh chuan, in eight volumes, the Fêng shên yen i, in eight volumes,
and the Sou shên chi, in ten volumes. In writing the following pages I have translated or paraphrased
largely from these works. I have also consulted and at times quoted from the excellent volumes
on Chinese Superstitions by Père Henri Doré, comprised in the valuable series Variétés Sinologiques,
published by the Catholic Mission Press at Shanghai. The native works contained in the Ssu
K'u Ch'üan Shu, one of the few public libraries in Peking, have proved useful for purposes
of reference. My heartiest thanks are due to my good friend Mr Mu Hsüeh-hsün, a scholar of
wide learning and generous disposition, for having kindly allowed me to use his very large
and useful library of Chinese books. The late Dr G.E. Morrison also, until he sold it to a
Japanese baron, was good enough to let me consult his extensive collection of foreign works
relating to China whenever I wished, but owing to the fact that so very little work has been
done in Chinese mythology by Western writers I found it better in dealing with this subject
to go direct to the original Chinese texts. I am indebted to Professor H.A. Giles, and to his
publishers, Messrs Kelly and Walsh, Shanghai, for permission to reprint from Strange Stories
from a Chinese Studio the fox legends given in Chapter XV.

This is, so far as I know, the only monograph on Chinese mythology in any non-Chinese language.
Nor do the native works include any scientific analysis or philosophical treatment of their myths.

My aim, after summarizing the sociology of the Chinese as a prerequisite to the understanding
of their ideas and sentiments, and dealing as fully as possible, consistently with limitations
of space (limitations which have necessitated the presentation of a very large and intricate
topic in a highly compressed form), with the philosophy of the subject, has been to set forth
in English dress those myths which may be regarded as the accredited representatives of Chinese
mythology--those which live in the minds of the people and are referred to most frequently
in their literature, not those which are merely diverting without being typical or instructive--in
short, a true, not a distorted image.

Edward Theodore Chalmers Werner

Peking February 1922

Contents

Chapter

I.      The Sociology of the Chinese
II.     On Chinese Mythology
III.    Cosmogony--P'an Ku and the Creation Myth
IV.     The Gods of China
V.      Myths of the Stars
VI.     Myths of Thunder, Lightning, Wind, and Rain
VII.    Myths of the Waters
VIII.   Myths of Fire
IX.     Myths of Epidemics, Medicine, Exorcism, Etc.
X.      The Goddess of Mercy
XI.     The Eight Immortals
XII.    The Guardian of the Gate of Heaven
XIII.   A Battle of the Gods
XIV.    How the Monkey Became a God
XV.     Fox Legends
XVI.    Miscellaneous Legends
        The Pronunciation of Chinese Words

Mais cet Orient, cette Asie, quelles en sont, enfin, les frontières réelles?... Ces frontières
sont d'une netteté qui ne permet aucune erreur. L'Asie est là où cesse la vulgarité, où naît
la dignité, et où commence l'élégance intellectuelle. Et l'Orient est là où sont les sources
débordantes de poésie.

Mardrus, La Reine de Saba

CHAPTER I

The Sociology of the Chinese

Racial Origin

In spite of much research and conjecture, the origin of the Chinese people remains undetermined.
We do not know who they were nor whence they came. Such evidence as there is points to their
immigration from elsewhere; the Chinese themselves have a tradition of a Western origin. The
first picture we have of their actual history shows us, not a people behaving as if long settled
in a land which was their home and that of their forefathers, but an alien race fighting with
wild beasts, clearing dense forests, and driving back the aboriginal inhabitants.

Setting aside several theories (including the one that the Chinese are autochthonous and their
civilization indigenous) now regarded by the best authorities as untenable, the researches
of sinologists seem to indicate an origin (1) in early Akkadia; or (2) in Khotan, the Tarim
valley (generally what is now known as Eastern Turkestan), or the K'un-lun Mountains (concerning
which more presently). The second hypothesis may relate only to a sojourn of longer or shorter
duration on the way from Akkadia to the ultimate settlement in China, especially since the
Khotan civilization has been shown to have been imported from the Punjab in the third century
B.C. The fact that serious mistakes have been made regarding the identifications of early Chinese
rulers with Babylonian kings, and of the Chinese po-hsing (Cantonese bak-sing) 'people' with
the Bak Sing or Bak tribes, does not exclude the possibility of an Akkadian origin. But in
either case the immigration into China was probably gradual, and may have taken the route from
Western or Central Asia direct to the banks of the Yellow River, or may possibly have followed
that to the south-east through Burma and then to the north-east through what is now China--the
settlement of the latter country having thus spread from south-west to north-east, or in a
north-easterly direction along the Yangtzu River, and so north, instead of, as is generally
supposed, from north to south.

Southern Origin Improbable

But this latter route would present many difficulties; it would seem to have been put forward
merely as ancillary to the theory that the Chinese originated in the Indo-Chinese peninsula.
This theory is based upon the assumptions that the ancient Chinese ideograms include representations
of tropical animals and plants; that the oldest and purest forms of the language are found
in the south; and that the Chinese and the Indo-Chinese groups of languages are both tonal.
But all of these facts or alleged facts are as easily or better accounted for by the supposition
that the Chinese arrived from the north or north-west in successive waves of migration, the
later arrivals pushing the earlier farther and farther toward the south, so that the oldest
and purest forms of Chinese would be found just where they are, the tonal languages of the
Indo-Chinese peninsula being in that case regarded as the languages of the vanguard of the
migration. Also, the ideograms referred to represent animals and plants of the temperate zone
rather than of the tropics, but even if it could be shown, which it cannot, that these animals
and plants now belong exclusively to the tropics, that would be no proof of the tropical origin
of the Chinese, for in the earliest times the climate of North China was much milder than it
is now, and animals such as tigers and elephants existed in the dense jungles which are later
found only in more southern latitudes.

Expansion of Races from North to South

The theory of a southern origin (to which a further serious objection will be stated presently)
implies a gradual infiltration of Chinese immigrants through South or Mid-China (as above indicated)
toward the north, but there is little doubt that the movement of the races has been from north
to south and not vice versa. In what are now the provinces of Western Kansu and Ssuch'uan there
lived a people related to the Chinese (as proved by the study of Indo-Chinese comparative philology)
who moved into the present territory of Tibet and are known as Tibetans; in what is now the
province of Yünnan were the Shan or Ai-lao (modern Laos), who, forced by Mongol invasions,
emigrated to the peninsula in the south and became the Siamese; and in Indo-China, not related
to the Chinese, were the Annamese, Khmer, Mon, Khasi, Colarains (whose remnants are dispersed
over the hill tracts of Central India), and other tribes, extending in prehistoric times into
Southern China, but subsequently driven back by the expansion of the Chinese in that direction.

Arrival of the Chinese in China

Taking into consideration all the existing evidence, the objections to all other theories of
the origin of the Chinese seem to be greater than any yet raised to the theory that immigrants
from the Tarim valley or beyond (i.e. from Elam or Akkadia, either direct or via Eastern Turkestan)
struck the banks of the Yellow River in their eastward journey and followed its course until
they reached the localities where we first find them settled, namely, in the region covered
by parts of the three modern provinces of Shansi, Shensi, and Honan where their frontiers join.
They were then (about 2500 or 3000 B.C.) in a relatively advanced state of civilization. The
country east and south of this district was inhabited by aboriginal tribes, with whom the Chinese
fought, as they did with the wild animals and the dense vegetation, but with whom they also
commingled and intermarried, and among whom they planted colonies as centres from which to
spread their civilization.

The K'un-lun Mountains

With reference to the K'un-lun Mountains, designated in Chinese mythology as the abode of the
gods--the ancestors of the Chinese race--it should be noted that these are identified not with
the range dividing Tibet from Chinese Turkestan, but with the Hindu Kush. That brings us somewhat
nearer to Babylon, and the apparent convergence of the two theories, the Central Asian and
the Western Asian, would seem to point to a possible solution of the problem. Nü Kua, one of
the alleged creators of human beings, and Nü and Kua, the first two human beings (according
to a variation of the legend), are placed in the K'un-lun Mountains. That looks hopeful. Unfortunately,
the K'un-lun legend is proved to be of Taoist origin. K'un-lun is the central mountain of the
world, and 3000 miles in height. There is the fountain of immortality, and thence flow the
four great rivers of the world. In other words, it is the Sumêru of Hindu mythology transplanted
into Chinese legend, and for our present purpose without historical value.

It would take up too much space to go into details of this interesting problem of the origin
of the Chinese and their civilization, the cultural connexions or similarities of China and
Western Asia in pre-Babylonian times, the origin of the two distinct culture-areas so marked
throughout the greater part of Chinese history, etc., and it will be sufficient for our present
purpose to state the conclusion to which the evidence points.

Provisional Conclusion

Pending the discovery of decisive evidence, the following provisional conclusion has much to
recommend it--namely, that the ancestors of the Chinese people came from the west, from Akkadia
or Elam, or from Khotan, or (more probably) from Akkadia or Elam via Khotan, as one nomad or
pastoral tribe or group of nomad or pastoral tribes, or as successive waves of immigrants,
reached what is now China Proper at its north-west corner, settled round the elbow of the Yellow
River, spread north-eastward, eastward, and southward, conquering, absorbing, or pushing before
them the aborigines into what is now South and South-west China. These aboriginal races, who
represent a wave or waves of neolithic immigrants from Western Asia earlier than the relatively
high-headed immigrants into North China (who arrived about the twenty-fifth or twenty-fourth
century B.C.), and who have left so deep an impress on the Japanese, mixed and intermarried
with the Chinese in the south, eventually producing the pronounced differences, in physical,
mental, and emotional traits, in sentiments, ideas, languages, processes, and products, from
the Northern Chinese which are so conspicuous at the present day.

Inorganic Environment

At the beginning of their known history the country occupied by the Chinese was the comparatively
small region above mentioned. It was then a tract of an irregular oblong shape, lying between
latitude 34° and 40° N. and longitude 107° and 114° E. This territory round the elbow of the
Yellow River had an area of about 50,000 square miles, and was gradually extended to the sea-coast
on the north-east as far as longitude 119°, when its area was about doubled. It had a population
of perhaps a million, increasing with the expansion to two millions. This may be called infant
China. Its period (the Feudal Period) was in the two thousand years between the twenty-fourth
and third centuries B.C. During the first centuries of the Monarchical Period, which lasted
from 221 B.C. to A.D. 1912, it had expanded to the south to such an extent that it included
all of the Eighteen Provinces constituting what is known as China Proper of modern times, with
the exception of a portion of the west of Kansu and the greater portions of Ssuch'uan and Yünnan.
At the time of the Manchu conquest at the beginning of the seventeenth century A.D. it embraced
all the territory lying between latitude 18° and 40° N. and longitude 98° and 122° E. (the
Eighteen Provinces or China Proper), with the addition of the vast outlying territories of
Manchuria, Mongolia, Ili, Koko-nor, Tibet, and Corea, with suzerainty over Burma and Annam--an
area of more than 5,000,000 square miles, including the 2,000,000 square miles covered by the
Eighteen Provinces. Generally, this territory is mountainous in the west, sloping gradually
down toward the sea on the east. It contains three chief ranges of mountains and large alluvial
plains in the north, east, and south. Three great and about thirty large rivers intersect the
country, their numerous tributaries reaching every part of it.

As regards geological features, the great alluvial plains rest upon granite, new red sandstone,
or limestone. In the north is found the peculiar loess formation, having its origin probably
in the accumulated dust of ages blown from the Mongolian plateau. The passage from north to
south is generally from the older to the newer rocks; from east to west a similar series is
found, with some volcanic features in the west and south. Coal and iron are the chief minerals,
gold, silver, copper, lead, tin, jade, etc., being also mined.

The climate of this vast area is not uniform. In the north the winter is long and rigorous,
the summer hot and dry, with a short rainy season in July and August; in the south the summer
is long, hot, and moist, the winter short. The mean temperature is 50.3° F. and 70° F. in the
north and south respectively. Generally, the thermometer is low for the latitude, though perhaps
it is more correct to say that the Gulf Stream raises the temperature of the west coast of
Europe above the average. The mean rainfall in the north is 16, in the south 70 inches, with
variations in other parts. Typhoons blow in the south between July and October.

Organic Environment

The vegetal productions are abundant and most varied. The rice-zone (significant in relation
to the cultural distinctions above noted) embraces the southern half of the country. Tea, first
cultivated for its infusion in A.D. 350, is grown in the southern and central provinces between
the twenty-third and thirty-fifth degrees of latitude, though it is also found as far north
as Shantung, the chief 'tea district,' however, being the large area south of the Yangtzu River,
east of the Tungting Lake and great Siang River, and north of the Kuangtung Province. The other
chief vegetal products are wheat, barley, maize, millet, the bean, yam, sweet and common potato,
tomato, eggplant, ginseng, cabbage, bamboo, indigo, pepper, tobacco, camphor, tallow, ground-nut,
poppy, water-melon, sugar, cotton, hemp, and silk. Among the fruits grown are the date, mulberry,
orange, lemon, pumelo, persimmon, lichi, pomegranate, pineapple, fig, coconut, mango, and banana,
besides the usual kinds common in Western countries.

The wild animals include the tiger, panther, leopard, bear, sable, otter, monkey, wolf, fox,
twenty-seven or more species of ruminants, and numerous species of rodents. The rhinoceros,
elephant, and tapir still exist in Yünnan. The domestic animals include the camel and the water-buffalo.
There are about 700 species of birds, and innumerable species of fishes and insects.

Sociological Environment

On their arrival in what is now known as China the Chinese, as already noted, fought with the
aboriginal tribes. The latter were exterminated, absorbed, or driven south with the spread
of Chinese rule. The Chinese "picked out the eyes of the land," and consequently the non-Chinese
tribes now live in the unhealthy forests or marshes of the south, or in mountain regions difficult
of access, some even in trees (a voluntary, not compulsory promotion), though several, such
as the Dog Jung in Fukien, retain settlements like islands among the ruling race.

In the third century B.C. began the hostile relations of the Chinese with the northern nomads,
which continued throughout the greater part of their history. During the first six centuries
A.D. there was intercourse with Rome, Parthia, Turkey, Mesopotamia, Ceylon, India, and Indo-China,
and in the seventh century with the Arabs. Europe was brought within the sociological environment
by Christian travellers. From the tenth to the thirteenth century the north was occupied by
Kitans and Nüchêns, and the whole Empire was under Mongol sway for eighty-eight years in the
thirteenth and fourteenth centuries. Relations of a commercial and religious nature were held
with neighbours during the following four hundred years. Regular diplomatic intercourse with
Western nations was established as a result of a series of wars in the eighteenth and nineteenth
centuries. Until recently the nation held aloof from alliances and was generally averse to
foreign intercourse. From 1537 onward, as a sequel of war or treaty, concessions, settlements,
etc., were obtained by foreign Powers. China has now lost some of her border countries and
large adjacent islands, the military and commercial pressure of Western nations and Japan having
taken the place of the military pressure of the Tartars already referred to. The great problem
for her, an agricultural nation, is how to find means and the military spirit to maintain her
integrity, the further violation of which could not but be regarded by the student of sociological
history as a great tragedy and a world-wide calamity.

Physical, Emotional, and Intellectual Characters

The physical characters of the Chinese are too well known to need detailed recital. The original
immigrants into North China all belonged to blond races, but the modern Chinese have little
left of the immigrant stock. The oblique, almond-shaped eyes, with black iris and the orbits
far apart, have a vertical fold of skin over the inner canthus, concealing a part of the iris,
a peculiarity distinguishing the eastern races of Asia from all other families of man. The
stature and weight of brain are generally below the average. The hair is black, coarse, and
cylindrical; the beard scanty or absent. The colour of the skin is darker in the south than
in the north.

Emotionally the Chinese are sober, industrious, of remarkable endurance, grateful, courteous,
and ceremonious, with a high sense of mercantile honour, but timorous, cruel, unsympathetic,
mendacious, and libidinous.

Intellectually they were until recently, and to a large extent still are, non-progressive,
in bondage to uniformity and mechanism in culture, imitative, unimaginative, torpid, indirect,
suspicious, and superstitious.

The character is being modified by intercourse with other peoples of the earth and by the strong
force of physical, intellectual, and moral education.

Marriage in Early Times

Certain parts of the marriage ceremonial of China as now existing indicate that the original
form of marriage was by capture--of which, indeed, there is evidence in the classical Book
of Odes. But a regular form of marriage (in reality a contract of sale) is shown to have existed
in the earliest historical times. The form was not monogamous, though it seems soon to have
assumed that of a qualified monogamy consisting of one wife and one or more concubines, the
number of the latter being as a rule limited only by the means of the husband. The higher the
rank the larger was the number of concubines and handmaids in addition to the wife proper,
the palaces of the kings and princes containing several hundreds of them. This form it has
retained to the present day, though associations now exist for the abolition of concubinage.
In early times, as well as throughout the whole of Chinese history, concubinage was in fact
universal, and there is some evidence also of polyandry (which, however, cannot have prevailed
to any great extent). The age for marriage was twenty for the man and fifteen for the girl,
celibacy after thirty and twenty respectively being officially discouraged. In the province
of Shantung it was usual for the wives to be older than their husbands. The parents' consent
to the betrothal was sought through the intervention of a matchmaker, the proposal originating
with the parents, and the wishes of the future bride and bridegroom not being taken into consideration.
The conclusion of the marriage was the progress of the bride from the house of her parents
to that of the bridegroom, where after various ceremonies she and he worshipped his ancestors
together, the worship amounting to little more than an announcement of the union to the ancestral
spirits. After a short sojourn with her husband the bride revisited her parents, and the marriage
was not considered as finally consummated until after this visit had taken place.

The status of women was low, and the power of the husband great--so great that he could kill
his wife with impunity. Divorce was common, and all in favour of the husband, who, while he
could not be divorced by her, could put his wife away for disobedience or even for loquaciousness.
A widower remarried immediately, but refusal to remarry by a widow was esteemed an act of chastity.
She often mutilated herself or even committed suicide to prevent remarriage, and was posthumously
honoured for doing so. Being her husband's as much in the Otherworld as in this, remarriage
would partake of the character of unchastity and insubordination; the argument, of course,
not applying to the case of the husband, who by remarriage simply adds another member to his
clan without infringing on anyone's rights.

Marriage in Monarchical and Republican Periods

The marital system of the early classical times, of which the above were the essentials, changed
but little during the long period of monarchical rule lasting from 221 B.C. to A.D. 1912. The
principal object, as before, was to secure an heir to sacrifice to the spirits of deceased
progenitors. Marriage was not compulsory, but old bachelors and old maids were very scarce.
The concubines were subject to the wife, who was considered to be the mother of their children
as well as her own. Her status, however, was not greatly superior. Implicit obedience was exacted
from her. She could not possess property, but could not be hired out for prostitution. The
latter vice was common, in spite of the early age at which marriage took place and in spite
of the system of concubinage--which is after all but a legalized transfer of prostitutional
cohabitation to the domestic circle.

Since the establishment of the Republic in 1912 the 'landslide' in the direction of Western
progress has had its effect also on the domestic institutions. But while the essentials of
the marriage contract remain practically the same as before, the most conspicuous changes have
been in the accompanying ceremonial--now sometimes quite foreign, but in a very large, perhaps
the greatest, number of cases that odious thing, half foreign, half Chinese; as, for instance,
when the procession, otherwise native, includes foreign glass-panelled carriages, or the bridegroom
wears a 'bowler' or top-hat with his Chinese dress--and in the greater freedom allowed to women,
who are seen out of doors much more than formerly, sit at table with their husbands, attend
public functions and dinners, dress largely in foreign fashion, and play tennis and other games,
instead of being prisoners of the 'inner apartment' and household drudges little better than
slaves.

One unexpected result of this increased freedom is certainly remarkable, and is one not likely
to have been predicted by the most far-sighted sociologist. Many of the 'progressive' Chinese,
now that it is the fashion for Chinese wives to be seen in public with their husbands, finding
the uneducated, gauche, small-footed household drudge unable to compete with the smarter foreign-educated
wives of their neighbours, have actually repudiated them and taken unto themselves spouses
whom they can exhibit in public without 'loss of face'! It is, however, only fair to add that
the total number of these cases, though by no means inconsiderable, appears to be proportionately
small.

Parents and Children

As was the power of the husband over the wife, so was that of the father over his children.
Infanticide (due chiefly to poverty, and varying with it) was frequent, especially in the case
of female children, who were but slightly esteemed; the practice prevailing extensively in
three or four provinces, less extensively in others, and being practically absent in a large
number. Beyond the fact that some penalties were enacted against it by the Emperor Ch'ien Lung
(A.D. 1736-96), and that by statute it was a capital offence to murder children in order to
use parts of their bodies for medicine, it was not legally prohibited. When the abuse became
too scandalous in any district proclamations condemning it would be issued by the local officials.
A man might, by purchase and contract, adopt a person as son, daughter, or grandchild, such
person acquiring thereby all the rights of a son or daughter. Descent, both of real and personal
property, was to all the sons of wives and concubines as joint heirs, irrespective of seniority.
Bastards received half shares. Estates were not divisible by the children during the lifetime
of their parents or grandparents.

The head of the family being but the life-renter of the family property, bound by fixed rules,
wills were superfluous, and were used only where the customary respect for the parents gave
them a voice in arranging the details of the succession. For this purpose verbal or written
instructions were commonly given.

In the absence of the father, the male relatives of the same surname assumed the guardianship
of the young. The guardian exercised full authority and enjoyed the surplus revenues of his
ward's estate, but might not alienate the property.

There are many instances in Chinese history of extreme devotion of children to parents taking
the form of self-wounding and even of suicide in the hope of curing parents' illnesses or saving
their lives.

Political History

The country inhabited by the Chinese on their arrival from the West was, as we saw, the district
where the modern provinces of Shansi, Shensi, and Honan join. This they extended in an easterly
direction to the shores of the Gulf of Chihli--a stretch of territory about 600 miles long
by 300 broad. The population, as already stated, was between one and two millions. During the
first two thousand years of their known history the boundaries of this region were not greatly
enlarged, but beyond the more or less undefined borderland to the south were chou or colonies,
nuclei of Chinese population, which continually increased in size through conquest of the neighbouring
territory. In 221 B.C. all the feudal states into which this territory had been parcelled out,
and which fought with one another, were subjugated and absorbed by the state of Ch'in, which
in that year instituted the monarchical form of government--the form which obtained in China
for the next twenty-one centuries.

Though the origin of the name 'China' has not yet been finally decided, the best authorities
regard it as derived from the name of this feudal state of Ch'in.

Under this short-lived dynasty of Ch'in and the famous Han dynasty (221 B.C. to A.D. 221) which
followed it, the Empire expanded until it embraced almost all the territory now known as China
Proper (the Eighteen Provinces of Manchu times). To these were added in order between 194 B.C.
and A.D. 1414: Corea, Sinkiang (the New Territory or Eastern Turkestan), Manchuria, Formosa,
Tibet, and Mongolia--Formosa and Corea being annexed by Japan in 1895 and 1910 respectively.
Numerous other extra-China countries and islands, acquired and lost during the long course
of Chinese history (at one time, from 73 to 48 B.C., "all Asia from Japan to the Caspian Sea
was tributary to the Middle Kingdom," i.e. China), it is not necessary to mention here. During
the Southern Sung dynasty (1127-1280) the Tartars owned the northern half of China, as far
down as the Yangtzu River, and in the Yüan dynasty (1280-1368) they conquered the whole country.
During the period 1644-1912 it was in the possession of the Manchus. At present the five chief
component peoples of China are represented in the striped national flag (from the top downward)
by red (Manchus), yellow (Chinese), blue (Mongolians), white (Mohammedans), and black (Tibetans).
This flag was adopted on the establishment of the Republic in 1912, and supplanted the triangular
Dragon flag previously in use. By this time the population--which had varied considerably at
different periods owing to war, famine, and pestilence--had increased to about 400,000,000.

General Government

The general division of the nation was into the King and the People, The former was regarded
as appointed by the will of Heaven and as the parent of the latter. Besides being king, he
was also law-giver, commander-in-chief of the armies, high priest, and master of ceremonies.
The people were divided into four classes: (1) Shih, Officers (later Scholars), consisting
of Ch'ên, Officials (a few of whom were ennobled), and Shên Shih, Gentry; (2) Nung, Agriculturists;
(3) Kung, Artisans; and (4) Shang, Merchants.

For administrative purposes there were at the seat of central government (which, first at P'ing-yang--in
modern Shansi--was moved eleven times during the Feudal Period, and was finally at Yin) ministers,
or ministers and a hierarchy of officials, the country being divided into provinces, varying
in number from nine in the earliest times to thirty-six under the First Emperor, 221 B.C.,
and finally twenty-two at the present day. At first these provinces contained states, which
were models of the central state, the ruler's 'Middle Kingdom.' The provincial administration
was in the hands of twelve Pastors or Lord-Lieutenants. They were the chiefs of all the nobles
in a province. Civil and military offices were not differentiated. The feudal lords or princes
of states often resided at the king's court, officers of that court being also sent forth as
princes of states. The king was the source of legislation and administered justice. The princes
in their several states had the power of rewards and punishments. Revenue was derived from
a tithe on the land, from the income of artisans, merchants, fishermen, foresters, and from
the tribute brought by savage tribes.

The general structure and principles of this system of administration remained the same, with
few variations, down to the end of the Monarchical Period in 1912. At the end of that period
we find the emperor still considered as of divine descent, still the head of the civil, legislative,
military, ecclesiastical, and ceremonial administration, with the nation still divided into
the same four classes. The chief ministries at the capital, Peking, could in most cases trace
their descent from their prototypes of feudal times, and the principal provincial administrative
officials--the Governor-General or Viceroy, governor, provincial treasurer, judge, etc.--had
similarly a pedigree running back to offices then existing--a continuous duration of adherence
to type which is probably unique.

Appointment to office was at first by selection, followed by an examination to test proficiency;
later was introduced the system of public competitive literary examinations for office, fully
organized in the seventeenth century, and abolished in 1903, when official positions were thrown
open to the graduates of colleges established on a modern basis.

In 1912, on the overthrow of the Manchu monarchy, China became a republic, with an elected
President, and a Parliament consisting of a Senate and House of Representatives. The various
government departments were reorganized on Western lines, and a large number of new offices
instituted. Up to the present year the Law of the Constitution, owing to political dissension
between the North and the South, has not been put into force.

Laws

Chinese law, like primitive law generally, was not instituted in order to ensure justice between
man and man; its object was to enforce subordination of the ruled to the ruler. The laws were
punitive and vindictive rather than reformatory or remedial, criminal rather than civil. Punishments
were cruel: branding, cutting off the nose, the legs at the knees, castration, and death, the
latter not necessarily, or indeed ordinarily, for taking life. They included in some cases
punishment of the family, the clan, and the neighbours of the offender. The lex talionis was
in full force.

Nevertheless, in spite of the harsh nature of the punishments, possibly adapted, more or less,
to a harsh state of society, though the "proper end of punishments"--to "make an end of punishing"--was
missed, the Chinese evolved a series of excellent legal codes. This series began with the revision
of King Mu's Punishments in 950 B.C., the first regular code being issued in 650 B.C., and
ended with the well-known Ta Ch'ing lü li (Laws and Statutes of the Great Ch'ing Dynasty),
issued in A.D. 1647. Of these codes the great exemplar was the Law Classic drawn up by Li K'uei
(Li K'uei fa ching), a statesman in the service of the first ruler of the Wei State, in the
fourth century B.C. The Ta Ch'ing lü li has been highly praised by competent judges. Originally
it sanctioned only two kinds of punishment, death and flogging, but others were in use, and
the barbarous ling ch'ih, 'lingering death' or 'slicing to pieces,' invented about A.D. 1000
and abolished in 1905, was inflicted for high treason, parricide, on women who killed their
husbands, and murderers of three persons of one family. In fact, until some first-hand knowledge
of Western systems and procedure was obtained, the vindictive as opposed to the reformatory
idea of punishments continued to obtain in China down to quite recent years, and has not yet
entirely disappeared. Though the crueller forms of punishment had been legally abolished, they
continued to be used in many parts. Having been joint judge at Chinese trials at which, in
spite of my protests, prisoners were hung up by their thumbs and made to kneel on chains in
order to extort confession (without which no accused person could be punished), I can testify
that the true meaning of the "proper end of punishments" had no more entered into the Chinese
mind at the close of the monarchical régime than it had 4000 years before.

As a result of the reform movement into which China was forced as an alternative to foreign
domination toward the end of the Manchu Period, but chiefly owing to the bait held out by Western
Powers, that extraterritoriality would be abolished when China had reformed her judicial system,
a new Provisional Criminal Code was published. It substituted death by hanging or strangulation
for decapitation, and imprisonment for various lengths of time for bambooing. It was adopted
in large measure by the Republican régime, and is the chief legal instrument in use at the
present time. But close examination reveals the fact that it is almost an exact copy of the
Japanese penal code, which in turn was modelled upon that of Germany. It is, in fact, a Western
code imitated, and as it stands is quite out of harmony with present conditions in China. It
will have to be modified and recast to be a suitable, just, and practicable national legal
instrument for the Chinese people. Moreover, it is frequently overridden in a high-handed manner
by the police, who often keep a person acquitted by the Courts of Justice in custody until
they have 'squeezed' him of all they can hope to get out of him. And it is noteworthy that,
though provision was made in the Draft Code for trial by jury, this provision never went into
effect; and the slavish imitation of alien methods is shown by the curiously inconsistent reason
given--that "the fact that jury trials have been abolished in Japan is indicative of the inadvisability
of transplanting this Western institution into China!"

Local Government

The central administration being a far-flung network of officialdom, there was hardly any room
for local government apart from it. We find it only in the village elder and those associated
with him, who took up what government was necessary where the jurisdiction of the unit of the
central administration--the district magistracy--ceased, or at least did not concern itself
in meddling much.

Military System

The peace-loving agricultural settlers in early China had at first no army. When occasion arose,
all the farmers exchanged their ploughshares for swords and bows and arrows, and went forth
to fight. In the intervals between the harvests, when the fields were clear, they held manoeuvres
and practised the arts of warfare. The king, who had his Six Armies, under the Six High Nobles,
forming the royal military force, led the troops in person, accompanied by the spirit-tablets
of his ancestors and of the gods of the land and grain. Chariots, drawn by four horses and
containing soldiers armed with spears and javelins and archers, were much in use. A thousand
chariots was the regular force. Warriors wore buskins on their legs, and were sometimes gagged
in order to prevent the alarm being given to the enemy. In action the chariots occupied the
centre, the bowmen the left, the spearmen the right flank. Elephants were sometimes used in
attack. Spy-kites, signal-flags, hook-ladders, horns, cymbals, drums, and beacon-fires were
in use. The ears of the vanquished were taken to the king, quarter being rarely if ever given.

After the establishment of absolute monarchical government standing armies became the rule.
Military science was taught, and soldiers sometimes trained for seven years. Chariots with
upper storeys or spy-towers were used for fighting in narrow defiles, and hollow squares were
formed of mixed chariots, infantry, and dragoons. The weakness of disunion of forces was well
understood. In the sixth century A.D. the massed troops numbered about a million and a quarter.
In A.D. 627 there was an efficient standing army of 900,000 men, the term of service being
from the ages of twenty to sixty. During the Mongol dynasty (1280-1368) there was a navy of
5000 ships manned by 70,000 trained fighters. The Mongols completely revolutionized tactics
and improved on all the military knowledge of the time. In 1614 the Manchu 'Eight Banners,'
composed of Manchus, Mongolians, and Chinese, were instituted. The provincial forces, designated
the Army of the Green Standard, were divided into land forces and marine forces, superseded
on active service by 'braves' (yung), or irregulars, enlisted and discharged according to circumstances.
After the war with Japan in 1894 reforms were seriously undertaken, with the result that the
army has now been modernized in dress, weapons, tactics, etc., and is by no means a negligible
quantity in the world's fighting forces. A modern navy is also being acquired by building and
purchase. For many centuries the soldier, being, like the priest, unproductive, was regarded
with disdain, and now that his indispensableness for defensive purposes is recognized he has
to fight not only any actual enemy who may attack him, but those far subtler forces from over
the sea which seem likely to obtain supremacy in his military councils, if not actual control
of his whole military system. It is, in my view, the duty of Western nations to take steps
before it is too late to avert this great disaster.

Ecclesiastical Institutions

The dancing and chanting exorcists called wu were the first Chinese priests, with temples containing
gods worshipped and sacrificed to, but there was no special sacerdotal class. Worship of Heaven
could only be performed by the king or emperor. Ecclesiastical and political functions were
not completely separated. The king was pontifex maximus, the nobles, statesmen, and civil and
military officers acted as priests, the ranks being similar to those of the political hierarchy.
Worship took place in the 'Hall of Light,' which was also a palace and audience and council
chamber. Sacrifices were offered to Heaven, the hills and rivers, ancestors, and all the spirits.
Dancing held a conspicuous place in worship. Idols are spoken of in the earliest times.

Of course, each religion, as it formed itself out of the original ancestor-worship, had its
own sacred places, functionaries, observances, ceremonial. Thus, at the State worship of Heaven,
Nature, etc., there were the 'Great,' 'Medium,' and 'Inferior' sacrifices, consisting of animals,
silk, grain, jade, etc. Panegyrics were sung, and robes of appropriate colour worn. In spring,
summer, autumn, and winter there were the seasonal sacrifices at the appropriate altars. Taoism
and Buddhism had their temples, monasteries, priests, sacrifices, and ritual; and there were
village and wayside temples and shrines to ancestors, the gods of thunder, rain, wind, grain,
agriculture, and many others. Now encouraged, now tolerated, now persecuted, the ecclesiastical
personnel and structure of Taoism and Buddhism survived into modern times, when we find complete
schemes of ecclesiastical gradations of rank and authority grafted upon these two priestly
hierarchies, and their temples, priests, etc., fulfilling generally, with worship of ancestors,
State or official (Confucianism) and private or unofficial, and the observance of various annual
festivals, such as 'All Souls' Day' for wandering and hungry ghosts, the spiritual needs of
the people as the 'Three Religions' (San Chiao). The emperor, as high priest, took the responsibility
for calamities, etc., making confession to Heaven and praying that as a punishment the evil
be diverted from the people to his own person. Statesmen, nobles, and officials discharged,
as already noted, priestly functions in connexion with the State religion in addition to their
ordinary duties. As a rule, priests proper, frowned upon as non-producers, were recruited from
the lower classes, were celibate, unintellectual, idle, and immoral. There was nothing, even
in the elaborate ceremonies on special occasions in the Buddhist temples, which could be likened
to what is known as 'public worship' and 'common prayer' in the West. Worship had for its sole
object either the attainment of some good or the prevention of some evil.

Generally this represents the state of things under the Republican régime; the chief differences
being greater neglect of ecclesiastical matters and the conversion of a large number of temples
into schools.

Professional Institutions

We read of physicians, blind musicians, poets, teachers, prayer-makers, architects, scribes,
painters, diviners, ceremonialists, orators, and others during the Feudal Period, These professions
were of ecclesiastical origin, not yet completely differentiated from the 'Church,' and both
in earlier and later times not always or often differentiated from each other. Thus the historiographers
combined the duties of statesmen, scholars, authors, and generals. The professions of authors
and teachers, musicians and poets, were united in one person. And so it continued to the present
day. Priests discharge medical functions, poets still sing their verses. But experienced medical
specialists, though few, are to be found, as well as women doctors; there are veterinary surgeons,
musicians (chiefly belonging to the poorest classes and often blind), actors, teachers, attorneys,
diviners, artists, letter-writers, and many others, men of letters being perhaps the most prominent
and most esteemed.

Accessory Institutions

A system of schools, academies, colleges, and universities obtained in villages, districts,
departments, and principalities. The instruction was divided into 'Primary Learning' and 'Great
Learning.' There were special schools of dancing and music. Libraries and almshouses for old
men are mentioned. Associations of scholars for literary purposes seem to have been numerous.

Whatever form and direction education might have taken, it became stereotyped at an early age
by the road to office being made to lead through a knowledge of the classical writings of the
ancient sages. It became not only 'the thing' to be well versed in the sayings of Confucius,
Mencius; etc., and to be able to compose good essays on them containing not a single wrongly
written character, but useless for aspirants to office--who constituted practically the whole
of the literary class--to acquire any other knowledge. So obsessed was the national mind by
this literary mania that even infants' spines were made to bend so as to produce when adult
the 'scholarly stoop.' And from the fact that besides the scholar class the rest of the community
consisted of agriculturists, artisans, and merchants, whose knowledge was that of their fathers
and grandfathers, inculcated in the sons and grandsons as it had been in them, showing them
how to carry on in the same groove the calling to which Fate had assigned them, a departure
from which would have been considered 'unfilial'--unless, of course (as it very rarely did),
it went the length of attaining through study of the classics a place in the official class,
and thus shedding eternal lustre on the family--it will readily be seen that there was nothing
to cause education to be concerned with any but one or two of the subjects which are included
by Western peoples under that designation. It became at an early age, and remained for many
centuries, a rote-learning of the elementary text-books, followed by a similar acquisition
by heart of the texts of the works of Confucius and other classical writers. And so it remained
until the abolition, in 1905, of the old competitive examination system, and the substitution
of all that is included in the term 'modern education' at schools, colleges, and universities
all over the country, in which there is rapidly growing up a force that is regenerating the
Chinese people, and will make itself felt throughout the whole world.

It is this keen and shrewd appreciation of the learned, and this lust for knowledge, which,
barring the tragedy of foreign domination, will make China, in the truest and best sense of
the word, a great nation, where, as in the United States of America, the rigid class status
and undervaluation, if not disdaining, of knowledge which are proving so disastrous in England
and other European countries will be avoided, and the aristocracy of learning established in
its place.

Besides educational institutions, we find institutions for poor relief, hospitals, foundling
hospitals, orphan asylums, banking, insurance, and loan associations, travellers' clubs, mercantile
corporations, anti-opium societies, co-operative burial societies, as well as many others,
some imitated from Western models.

Bodily Mutilations

Compared with the practices found to exist among most primitive races, the mutilations the
Chinese were in the habit of inflicting were but few. They flattened the skulls of their babies
by means of stones, so as to cause them to taper at the top, and we have already seen what
they did to their spines; also the mutilations in warfare, and the punishments inflicted both
within and without the law; and how filial children and loyal wives mutilated themselves for
the sake of their parents and to prevent remarriage. Eunuchs, of course, existed in great numbers.
People bit, cut, or marked their arms to pledge oaths. But the practices which are more peculiarly
associated with the Chinese are the compressing of women's feet and the wearing of the queue,
misnamed 'pigtail.' The former is known to have been in force about A.D. 934, though it may
have been introduced as early as 583. It did not, however, become firmly established for more
than a century. This 'extremely painful mutilation,' begun in infancy, illustrates the tyranny
of fashion, for it is supposed to have arisen in the imitation by the women generally of the
small feet of an imperial concubine admired by one of the emperors from ten to fifteen centuries
ago (the books differ as to his identity). The second was a badge of servitude inflicted by
the Manchus on the Chinese when they conquered China at the beginning of the seventeenth century.
Discountenanced by governmental edicts, both of these practices are now tending toward extinction,
though, of course, compressed feet and 'pigtails' are still to be seen in every town and village.
Legally, the queue was abolished when the Chinese rid themselves of the Manchu yoke in 1912.

Funeral Rites

Not understanding the real nature of death, the Chinese believed it was merely a state of suspended
animation, in which the soul had failed to return to the body, though it might yet do so, even
after long intervals. Consequently they delayed burial, and fed the corpse, and went on to
the house-tops and called aloud to the spirit to return. When at length they were convinced
that the absent spirit could not be induced to re-enter the body, they placed the latter in
a coffin and buried it--providing it, however, with all that it had found necessary in this
life (food, clothing, wives, servants, etc.), which it would require also in the next (in their
view rather a continuation of the present existence than the beginning of another)--and, having
inducted or persuaded the spirit to enter the 'soul-tablet' which accompanied the funeral procession
(which took place the moment the tablet was 'dotted,' i.e. when the character wang, 'prince,'
was changed into chu, 'lord'), carried it back home again, set it up in a shrine in the main
hall, and fell down and worshipped it. Thus was the spirit propitiated, and as long as occasional
offerings were not overlooked the power for evil possessed by it would not be exerted against
the surviving inmates of the house, whom it had so thoughtlessly deserted.

The latter mourned by screaming, wailing, stamping their feet, and beating their breasts, renouncing
(in the earliest times) even their clothes, dwelling, and belongings to the dead, removing
to mourning-sheds of clay, fasting, or eating only rice gruel, sleeping on straw with a clod
for a pillow, and speaking only on subjects of death and burial. Office and public duties were
resigned, and marriage, music, and separation from the clan prohibited.

During the lapse of the long ages of monarchical rule funeral rites became more elaborate and
magnificent, but, though less rigid and ceremonious since the institution of the Republic,
they have retained their essential character down to the present day.

Funeral ceremonial was more exacting than that connected with most other observances, including
those of marriage. Invitations or notifications were sent to friends, and after receipt of
these fu, on the various days appointed therein, the guest was obliged to send presents, such
as money, paper horses, slaves, etc., and go and join in the lamentations of the hired mourners
and attend at the prayers recited by the priests. Funeral etiquette could not be pu'd, i.e.
made good, if overlooked or neglected at the right time, as it could in the case of the marriage
ceremonial.

Instead of symmetrical public graveyards, as in the West, the Chinese cemeteries belong to
the family or clan of the deceased, and are generally beautiful and peaceful places planted
with trees and surrounded by artistic walls enclosing the grave-mounds and monumental tablets.
The cemeteries themselves are the metonyms of the villages, and the graves of the houses. In
the north especially the grave is very often surmounted by a huge marble tortoise bearing the
inscribed tablet, or what we call the gravestone, on its back. The tombs of the last two lines
of emperors, the Ming and the Manchu, are magnificent structures, spread over enormous areas,
and always artistically situated on hillsides facing natural or artificial lakes or seas. Contrary
to the practice in Egypt, with the two exceptions above mentioned the conquering dynasties
have always destroyed the tombs of their predecessors. But for this savage vandalism, China
would probably possess the most magnificent assembly of imperial tombs in the world's records.

Laws of Intercourse

Throughout the whole course of their existence as a social aggregate the Chinese have pushed
ceremonial observances to an extreme limit. "Ceremonies," says the Li chi, the great classic
of ceremonial usages, "are the greatest of all things by which men live." Ranks were distinguished
by different headdresses, garments, badges, weapons, writing-tablets, number of attendants,
carriages, horses, height of walls, etc. Daily as well as official life was regulated by minute
observances. There were written codes embracing almost every attitude and act of inferiors
toward superiors, of superiors toward inferiors, and of equals toward equals. Visits, forms
of address, and giving of presents had each their set of formulae, known and observed by every
one as strictly and regularly as each child in China learned by heart and repeated aloud the
three-word sentences of the elementary Trimetrical Classic. But while the school text-book
was extremely simple, ceremonial observances were extremely elaborate. A Chinese was in this
respect as much a slave to the living as in his funeral rites he was a slave to the dead. Only
now, in the rush of 'modern progress,' is the doffing of the hat taking the place of the 'kowtow'
(k'o-t'ou).

It is in this matter of ceremonial observances that the East and the West have misunderstood
each other perhaps more than in all others. Where rules of etiquette are not only different,
but are diametrically opposed, there is every opportunity for misunderstanding, if not estrangement.
The points at issue in such questions as 'kowtowing' to the emperor and the worshipping of
ancestors are generally known, but the Westerner, as a rule, is ignorant of the fact that if
he wishes to conform to Chinese etiquette when in China (instead of to those Western customs
which are in many cases unfortunately taking their place) he should not, for instance, take
off his hat when entering a house or a temple, should not shake hands with his host, nor, if
he wishes to express approval, should he clap his hands. Clapping of hands in China (i.e. non-Europeanized
China) is used to drive away the sha ch'i, or deathly influence of evil spirits, and to clap
the hands at the close of the remarks of a Chinese host (as I have seen prominent, well-meaning,
but ill-guided men of the West do) is equivalent to disapproval, if not insult. Had our diplomatists
been sociologists instead of only commercial agents, more than one war might have been avoided.

Habits and Customs

At intervals during the year the Chinese make holiday. Their public festivals begin with the
celebration of the advent of the new year. They let off innumerable firecrackers, and make
much merriment in their homes, drinking and feasting, and visiting their friends for several
days. Accounts are squared, houses cleaned, fresh paper 'door-gods' pasted on the front doors,
strips of red paper with characters implying happiness, wealth, good fortune, longevity, etc.,
stuck on the doorposts or the lintel, tables, etc., covered with red cloth, and flowers and
decorations displayed everywhere. Business is suspended, and the merriment, dressing in new
clothes, feasting, visiting, offerings to gods and ancestors, and idling continue pretty consistently
during the first half of the first moon, the vacation ending with the Feast of Lanterns, which
occupies the last three days. It originated in the Han dynasty 2000 years ago. Innumerable
lanterns of all sizes, shapes, colours (except wholly white, or rather undyed material, the
colour of mourning), and designs are lit in front of public and private buildings, but the
use of these was an addition about 800 years later, i.e. about 1200 years ago. Paper dragons,
hundreds of yards long, are moved along the streets at a slow pace, supported on the heads
of men whose legs only are visible, giving the impression of huge serpents winding through
the thoroughfares.

Of the other chief festivals, about eight in number (not counting the festivals of the four
seasons with their equinoxes and solstices), four are specially concerned with the propitiation
of the spirits--namely, the Earlier Spirit Festival (fifteenth day of second moon), the Festival
of the Tombs (about the third day of the third moon), when graves are put in order and special
offerings made to the dead, the Middle Spirit Festival (fifteenth day of seventh moon), and
the Later Spirit Festival (fifteenth day of tenth moon). The Dragon-boat Festival (fifth day
of fifth moon) is said to have originated as a commemoration of the death of the poet Ch'ü
Yüan, who drowned himself in disgust at the official intrigue and corruption of which he was
the victim, but the object is the procuring of sufficient rain to ensure a good harvest. It
is celebrated by racing with long narrow boats shaped to represent dragons and propelled by
scores of rowers, pasting of charms on the doors of dwellings, and eating a special kind of
rice-cake, with a liquor as a beverage.

The fifteenth day of the eighth moon is the Mid-autumn Festival, known by foreigners as All
Souls' Day. On this occasion the women worship the moon, offering cakes, fruit, etc. The gates
of Purgatory are opened, and the hungry ghosts troop forth to enjoy themselves for a month
on the good things provided for them by the pious. The ninth day of the ninth moon is the Chung
Yang Festival, when every one who possibly can ascends to a high place--a hill or temple-tower.
This inaugurates the kite-flying season, and is supposed to promote longevity. During that
season, which lasts several months, the Chinese people the sky with dragons, centipedes, frogs,
butterflies, and hundreds of other cleverly devised creatures, which, by means of simple mechanisms
worked by the wind, roll their eyes, make appropriate sounds, and move their paws, wings, tails,
etc., in a most realistic manner. The festival originated in a warning received by a scholar
named Huan Ching from his master Fei Ch'ang-fang, a native of Ju-nan in Honan, who lived during
the Han dynasty, that a terrible calamity was about to happen, and enjoining him to escape
with his family to a high place. On his return he found all his domestic animals dead, and
was told that they had died instead of himself and his relatives. On New Year's Eve (Tuan Nien
or Chu Hsi) the Kitchen-god ascends to Heaven to make his annual report, the wise feasting
him with honey and other sticky food before his departure, so that his lips may be sealed and
he be unable to 'let on' too much to the powers that be in the regions above!

Sports and Games

The first sports of the Chinese were festival gatherings for purposes of archery, to which
succeeded exercises partaking of a military character. Hunting was a favourite amusement. They
played games of calculation, chess (or the 'game of war'), shuttlecock with the feet, pitch-pot
(throwing arrows from a distance into a narrow-necked jar), and 'horn-goring' (fighting on
the shoulders of others with horned masks on their heads). Stilts, football, dice-throwing,
boat-racing, dog-racing, cock-fighting, kite-flying, as well as singing and dancing marionettes,
afforded recreation and amusement.

Many of these games became obsolete in course of time, and new ones were invented. At the end
of the Monarchical Period, during the Manchu dynasty, we find those most in use to be foot-shuttlecock,
lifting of beams headed with heavy stones--dumb-bells four feet long and weighing thirty or
forty pounds--kite-flying, quail-fighting, cricket-fighting, sending birds after seeds thrown
into the air, sauntering through fields, playing chess or 'morra,' or gambling with cards,
dice, or over the cricket- and quail-fights or seed-catching birds. There were numerous and
varied children's games tending to develop strength, skill, quickness of action, parental instinct,
accuracy, and sagacity. Theatricals were performed by strolling troupes on stages erected opposite
temples, though permanent theatres also existed, female parts until recently being taken by
male actors. Peep-shows, conjurers, ventriloquists, acrobats, fortune-tellers, and story-tellers
kept crowds amused or interested. Generally, 'young China' of the present day, identified with
the party of progress, seems to have adopted most of the outdoor but very few of the indoor
games of Western nations.

Domestic Life

In domestic or private life, observances at birth, betrothal, and marriage were elaborate,
and retained superstitious elements. Early rising was general. Shaving of the head and beard,
as well as cleaning of the ears and massage, was done by barbers. There were public baths in
all cities and towns. Shops were closed at nightfall, and, the streets being until recent times
ill-lit or unlit, passengers or their attendants carried lanterns. Most houses, except the
poorest, had private watchmen. Generally two meals a day were taken. Dinners to friends were
served at inns or restaurants, accompanied or followed by musical or theatrical performances.
The place of honour is stated in Western books on China to be on the left, but the fact is
that the place of honour is the one which shows the utmost solicitude for the safety of the
guest. It is therefore not necessarily one fixed place, but would usually be the one facing
the door, so that the guest might be in a position to see an enemy enter, and take measures
accordingly.

Lap-dogs and cage-birds were kept as pets; 'wonks,' the huang kou, or 'yellow dog,' were guards
of houses and street scavengers. Aquaria with goldfish were often to be seen in the houses
of the upper and middle classes, the gardens and courtyards of which usually contained rockeries
and artistic shrubs and flowers.

Whiskers were never worn, and moustaches and beards only after forty, before which age the
hair grew, if at all, very scantily. Full, thick beards, as in the West, were practically never
seen, even on the aged. Snuff-bottles, tobacco-pipes, and fans were carried by both sexes.
Nails were worn long by members of the literary and leisured classes. Non-Manchu women and
girls had cramped feet, and both Manchu and Chinese women used cosmetics freely.

Industrial Institutions

While the men attended to farm-work, women took care of the mulberry-orchards and silkworms,
and did spinning, weaving, and embroidery. This, the primitive division of labour, held throughout,
though added to on both sides, so that eventually the men did most of the agriculture, arts,
production, distribution, fighting, etc., and the women, besides the duties above named and
some field-labour, mended old clothes, drilled and sharpened needles, pasted tin-foil, made
shoes, and gathered and sorted the leaves of the tea-plant. In course of time trades became
highly specialized--their number being legion--and localized, bankers, for instance, congregating
in Shansi, carpenters in Chi Chou, and porcelain-manufacturers in Jao Chou, in Kiangsi.

As to land, it became at an early age the property of the sovereign, who farmed it out to his
relatives or favourites. It was arranged on the ching, or 'well' system--eight private squares
round a ninth public square cultivated by the eight farmer families in common for the benefit
of the State. From the beginning to the end of the Monarchical Period tenure continued to be
of the Crown, land being unallodial, and mostly held in clans or families, and not entailed,
the conditions of tenure being payment of an annual tax, a fee for alienation, and money compensation
for personal services to the Government, generally incorporated into the direct tax as scutage.
Slavery, unknown in the earliest times, existed as a recognized institution during the whole
of the Monarchical Period.

Production was chiefly confined to human and animal labour, machinery being only now in use
on a large scale. Internal distribution was carried on from numerous centres and at fairs,
shops, markets, etc. With few exceptions, the great trade-routes by land and sea have remained
the same during the last two thousand years. Foreign trade was with Western Asia, Greece, Rome,
Carthage, Arabia, etc., and from the seventeenth century A.D. more generally with European
countries. The usual primitive means of conveyance, such as human beings, animals, carts, boats,
etc., were partly displaced by steam-vessels from 1861 onward.

Exchange was effected by barter, cowries of different values being the prototype of coins,
which were cast in greater or less quantity under each reign. But until within recent years
there was only one coin, the copper cash, in use, bullion and paper notes being the other media
of exchange. Silver Mexican dollars and subsidiary coins came into use with the advent of foreign
commerce. Weights and measures (which generally decreased from north to south), officially
arranged partly on the decimal system, were discarded by the people in ordinary commercial
transactions for the more convenient duodecimal subdivision.

Arts

Hunting, fishing, cooking, weaving, dyeing, carpentry, metallurgy, glass-, brick-, and paper-making,
printing, and book-binding were in a more or less primitive stage, the mechanical arts showing
much servile imitation and simplicity in design; but pottery, carving, and lacquer-work were
in an exceptionally high state of development, the articles produced being surpassed in quality
and beauty by no others in the world.

Agriculture and Rearing of Livestock

From the earliest times the greater portion of the available land was under cultivation. Except
when the country has been devastated by war, the Chinese have devoted close attention to the
cultivation of the soil continuously for forty centuries. Even the hills are terraced for extra
growing-room. But poverty and governmental inaction caused much to lie idle. There were two
annual crops in the north, and five in two years in the south. Perhaps two-thirds of the population
cultivated the soil. The methods, however, remained primitive; but the great fertility of the
soil and the great industry of the farmer, with generous but careful use of fertilizers, enabled
the vast territory to support an enormous population. Rice, wheat, barley, buckwheat, maize,
kaoliang, several millets, and oats were the chief grains cultivated. Beans, peas, oil-bearing
seeds (sesame, rape, etc.), fibre-plants (hemp, ramie, jute, cotton, etc.), starch-roots (taros,
yams, sweet potatoes, etc.), tobacco, indigo, tea, sugar, fruits, were among the more important
crops produced. Fruit-growing, however, lacked scientific method. The rotation of crops was
not a usual practice, but grafting, pruning, dwarfing, enlarging, selecting, and varying species
were well understood. Vegetable-culture had reached a high state of perfection, the smallest
patches of land being made to bring forth abundantly. This is the more creditable inasmuch
as most small farmers could not afford to purchase expensive foreign machinery, which, in many
cases, would be too large or complicated for their purposes.

The principal animals, birds, etc., reared were the pig, ass, horse, mule, cow, sheep, goat,
buffalo, yak, fowl, duck, goose, pigeon, silkworm, and bee.

The Ministry of Agriculture and Commerce, the successor to the Board of Agriculture, Manufactures,
and Commerce, instituted during recent years, is now adapting Western methods to the cultivation
of the fertile soil of China, and even greater results than in the past may be expected in
the future.

Sentiments and Moral Ideas

The Chinese have always shown a keen delight in the beautiful--in flowers, music, poetry, literature,
embroidery, paintings, porcelain. They cultivated ornamental plants, almost every house, as
we saw, having its garden, large or small, and tables were often decorated with flowers in
vases or ornamental wire baskets or fruits or sweetmeats. Confucius made music an instrument
of government. Paper bearing the written character was so respected that it might not be thrown
on the ground or trodden on. Delight was always shown in beautiful scenery or tales of the
marvellous. Commanding or agreeable situations were chosen for temples. But until within the
last few years streets and houses were generally unclean, and decency in public frequently absent.

Morality was favoured by public opinion, but in spite of early marriages and concubinage there
was much laxity. Cruelty both to human beings and animals has always been a marked trait in
the Chinese character. Savagery in warfare, cannibalism, luxury, drunkenness, and corruption
prevailed in the earliest times. The attitude toward women was despotic. But moral principles
pervaded the classical writings, and formed the basis of law. In spite of these, the inferior
sentiment of revenge was, as we have seen, approved and preached as a sacred duty. As a result
of the universal yin-yang dualistic doctrines, immorality was leniently regarded. In modern
times, at least, mercantile honour was high, "a merchant's word is as good as his bond" being
truer in China than in many other countries. Intemperance was rare. Opium-smoking was much
indulged in until the use of the drug was forcibly suppressed (1906-16). Even now much is smuggled
into the country, or its growth overlooked by bribed officials. Clan quarrels and fights were
common, vendettas sometimes continuing for generations. Suicide under depressing circumstances
was approved and honoured; it was frequently resorted to under the sting of great injustice.
There was a deep reverence for parents and superiors. Disregard of the truth, when useful,
was universal, and unattended by a sense of shame, even on detection. Thieving was common.
The illegal exactions of rulers were burdensome. In times of prosperity pride and satisfaction
in material matters was not concealed, and was often short-sighted. Politeness was practically
universal, though said to be often superficial; but gratitude was a marked characteristic,
and was heartfelt. Mutual conjugal affection was strong. The love of gambling was universal.

But little has occurred in recent years to modify the above characters. Nevertheless the inferior
traits are certainly being changed by education and by the formation of societies whose members
bind themselves against immorality, concubinage, gambling, drinking, smoking, etc.

Religious Ideas

Chinese religion is inherently an attitude toward the spirits or gods with the object of obtaining
a benefit or averting a calamity. We shall deal with it more fully in another chapter. Suffice
it to say here that it originated in ancestor-worship, and that the greater part of it remains
ancestor-worship to the present day. The State religion, which was Confucianism, was ancestor-worship.
Taoism, originally a philosophy, became a worship of spirits--of the souls of dead men supposed
to have taken up their abode in animals, reptiles, insects, trees, stones, etc.--borrowed the
cloak of religion from Buddhism, which eventually outshone it, and degenerated into a system
of exorcism and magic. Buddhism, a religion originating in India, in which Buddha, once a man,
is worshipped, in which no beings are known with greater power than can be attained to by man,
and according to which at death the soul migrates into anything from a deified human being
to an elephant, a bird, a plant, a wall, a broom, or any piece of inorganic matter, was imported
ready made into China and took the side of popular superstition and Taoism against the orthodox
belief, finding that its power lay in the influence on the popular mind of its doctrine respecting
a future state, in contrast to the indifference of Confucianism. Its pleading for compassion
and preservation of life met a crying need, and but for it the state of things in this respect
would be worse than it is.

Religion, apart from ancestor-worship, does not enter largely into Chinese life. There is none
of the real 'love of God' found, for example, in the fervent as distinguished from the conventional
Christian. And as ancestor-worship gradually loses its hold and dies out agnosticism will take
its place.

Superstitions

An almost infinite variety of superstitious practices, due to the belief in the good or evil
influences of departed spirits, exists in all parts of China. Days are lucky or unlucky. Eclipses
are due to a dragon trying to eat the sun or the moon. The rainbow is supposed to be the result
of a meeting between the impure vapours of the sun and the earth. Amulets are worn, and charms
hung up, sprigs of artemisia or of peach-blossom are placed near beds and over lintels respectively,
children and adults are 'locked to life' by means of locks on chains or cords worn round the
neck, old brass mirrors are supposed to cure insanity, figures of gourds, tigers' claws, or
the unicorn are worn to ensure good fortune or ward off sickness, fire, etc., spells of many
kinds, composed mostly of the written characters for happiness and longevity, are worn, or
written on paper, cloth, leaves, etc., and burned, the ashes being made into a decoction and
drunk by the young or sick.

Divination by means of the divining stalks (the divining plant, milfoil or yarrow) and the
tortoiseshell has been carried on from time immemorial, but was not originally practised with
the object of ascertaining future events, but in order to decide doubts, much as lots are drawn
or a coin tossed in the West. Fêng-shui, "the art of adapting the residence of the living and
the dead so as to co-operate and harmonize with the local currents of the cosmic breath" (the
yin and the yang: see Chapter III), a doctrine which had its root in ancestor-worship, has
exercised an enormous influence on Chinese thought and life from the earliest times, and especially
from those of Chu Hsi and other philosophers of the Sung dynasty.

Knowledge

Having noted that Chinese education was mainly literary, and why it was so, it is easy to see
that there would be little or no demand for the kind of knowledge classified in the West under
the head of science. In so far as any demand existed, it did so, at any rate at first, only
because it subserved vital needs. Thus, astronomy, or more properly astrology, was studied
in order that the calendar might be regulated, and so the routine of agriculture correctly
followed, for on that depended the people's daily rice, or rather, in the beginning, the various
fruits and kinds of flesh which constituted their means of sustentation before their now universal
food was known. In philosophy they have had two periods of great activity, the first beginning
with Lao Tzu and Confucius in the sixth century B.C. and ending with the Burning of the Books
by the First Emperor, Shih Huang Ti, in 213 B.C.; the second beginning with Chou Tzu (A.D.
1017-73) and ending with Chu Hsi (1130-1200). The department of philosophy in the imperial
library contained in 190 B.C. 2705 volumes by 137 authors. There can be no doubt that this
zeal for the orthodox learning, combined with the literary test for office, was the reason
why scientific knowledge was prevented from developing; so much so, that after four thousand
or more years of national life we find, during the Manchu Period, which ended the monarchical
régime, few of the educated class, giants though they were in knowledge of all departments
of their literature and history (the continuity of their traditions laid down in their twenty-four
Dynastic Annals has been described as one of the great wonders of the world), with even the
elementary scientific learning of a schoolboy in the West. 'Crude,' 'primitive,' 'mediocre,'
'vague,' 'inaccurate,' 'want of analysis and generalization,' are terms we find applied to
their knowledge of such leading sciences as geography, mathematics, chemistry, botany, and
geology. Their medicine was much hampered by superstition, and perhaps more so by such beliefs
as that the seat of the intellect is in the stomach, that thoughts proceed from the heart,
that the pit of the stomach is the seat of the breath, that the soul resides in the liver,
etc.--the result partly of the idea that dissection of the body would maim it permanently during
its existence in the Otherworld. What progress was made was due to European instruction; and
this again is the causa causans of the great wave of progress in scientific and philosophical
knowledge which is rolling over the whole country and will have marked effects on the history
of the world during the coming century.

Language

Originally polysyllabic, the Chinese language later assumed a monosyllabic, isolating, uninflected
form, grammatical relations being indicated by position. From the earliest forms of speech
several subordinate vernacular languages arose in various districts, and from these sprang
local dialects, etc. Tone-distinctions arose--i.e. the same words pronounced with a different
intonation came to mean different things. Development of these distinctions led to carelessness
of articulation, and multiplication of what would be homonyms but for these tones. It is incorrect
to assume that the tones were invented to distinguish similar sounds. So that, at the present
day, anyone who says ma will mean either an exclamation, hemp, horse, or curse according to
the quality he gives to the sound. The language remains in a primitive state, without inflexion,
declension, or distinction of parts of speech. The order in a sentence is: subject, verb, complement
direct, complement indirect. Gender is formed by distinctive particles; number by prefixing
numerals, etc.; cases by position or appropriate prepositions. Adjectives precede nouns; position
determines comparison; and absence of punctuation causes ambiguity. The latter is now introduced
into most newly published works. The new education is bringing with it innumerable words and
phrases not found in the old literature or dictionaries. Japanese idioms which are now being
imported into the language are making it less pure.

The written language, too well known to need detailed description, a thing of beauty and a
joy for ever to those able to appreciate it, said to have taken originally the form of knotted
cords and then of notches on wood (though this was more probably the origin of numeration than
of writing proper), took later that of rude outlines of natural objects, and then went on to
the phonetic system, under which each character is composed of two parts, the radical, indicating
the meaning, and the phonetic, indicating the sound. They were symbols, non-agglutinative and
non-inflexional, and were written in vertical columns, probably from having in early times
been painted or cut on strips of bark.

Achievements of the Chinese

As the result of all this fitful fever during so many centuries, we find that the Chinese,
after having lived in nests "in order to avoid the animals," and then in caves, have built
themselves houses and palaces which are still made after the pattern of their prototype, with
a flat wall behind, the openings in front, the walls put in after the pillars and roof-tree
have been fixed, and out-buildings added on as side extensions. The k'ang, or 'stove-bed' (now
a platform made of bricks), found all over the northern provinces, was a place scooped out
of the side of the cave, with an opening underneath in which (as now) a fire was lit in winter.
Windows and shutters opened upward, being a survival of the mat or shade hung in front of the
apertures in the walls of the primitive cave-dwelling. Four of these buildings facing each
other round a square made the courtyard, and one or more courtyards made the compound. They
have fed themselves on almost everything edible to be found on, under, or above land or water,
except milk, but live chiefly on rice, chicken, fish, vegetables, including garlic, and tea,
though at one time they ate flesh and drank wine, sometimes to excess, before tea was cultivated.
They have clothed themselves in skins and feathers, and then in silks and satins, but mostly
in cotton, and hardly ever in wool. Under the Manchu régime the type of dress adopted was that
of this horse-riding race, showing the chief characteristics of that noble animal, the broad
sleeves representing the hoofs, the queue the mane, etc. This queue was formed of the hair
growing from the back part of the scalp, the front of which was shaved. Unlike the Egyptians,
they did not wear wigs. They have nearly always had the decency to wear their coats long, and
have despised the Westerner for wearing his too short. They are now paradoxical enough to make
the mistake of adopting the Westerner's costume.

They have made to themselves great canals, bridges, aqueducts, and the longest wall there has
ever been on the face of the earth (which could not be seen from the moon, as some sinologists
have erroneously supposed, any more than a hair, however long, could be seen at a distance
of a hundred yards). They have made long and wide roads, but failed to keep them in repair
during the last few centuries, though much zeal, possibly due to commerce on oil- or electricity-driven
wheels, is now being shown in this direction. They have built honorary portals to chaste widows,
pagodas, and arched bridges of great beauty, not forgetting to surround each city with a high
and substantial wall to keep out unfriendly people. They have made innumerable implements and
weapons, from pens and fans and chopsticks to ploughs and carts and ships; from fiery darts,
'flame elephants,' bows and spears, spiked chariots, battering-rams, and hurling-engines to
mangonels, trebuchets, matchlocks of wrought iron and plain bore with long barrels resting
on a stock, and gingals fourteen feet long resting on a tripod, cuirasses of quilted cotton
cloth covered with brass knobs, and helmets of iron or polished steel, sometimes inlaid, with
neck- and ear-lappets. And they have been content not to improve upon these to any appreciable
extent; but have lately shown a tendency to make the later patterns imported from the West
in their own factories.

They have produced one of the greatest and most remarkable accumulations of literature the
world has ever seen, and the finest porcelain; some music, not very fine; and some magnificent
painting, though hardly any sculpture, and little architecture that will live.

CHAPTER II

On Chinese Mythology

Mythology and Intellectual Progress

The Manichæst, yin-yang (dualist), idea of existence, to which further reference will be made
in the next chapter, finds its illustration in the dual life, real and imaginary, of all the
peoples of the earth. They have both real histories and mythological histories. In the preceding
chapter I have dealt briefly with the first--the life of reality--in China from the earliest
times to the present day; the succeeding chapters are concerned with the second--the life of
imagination. A survey of the first was necessary for a complete understanding of the second.
The two react upon each other, affecting the national character and through it the history
of the world.

Mythology is the science of the unscientific man's explanation of what we call the Otherworld--itself
and its denizens, their mysterious habits and surprising actions both there and here, usually
including the creation of this world also. By the Otherworld he does not necessarily mean anything
distant or even invisible, though the things he explains would mostly be included by us under
those terms. In some countries myths are abundant, in others scarce. Why should this be? Why
should some peoples tell many and marvellous tales about their gods and others say little about
them, though they may say a great deal to them? We recall the 'great' myths of Greece and Scandinavia.
Other races are 'poor' in myths. The difference is to be explained by the mental characters
of the peoples as moulded by their surroundings and hereditary tendencies. The problem is of
course a psychological one, for it is, as already noted, in imagination that myths have their
root. Now imagination grows with each stage of intellectual progress, for intellectual progress
implies increasing representativeness of thought. In the lower stages of human development
imagination is feeble and unproductive; in the highest stages it is strong and constructive.

The Chinese Intellect

The Chinese are not unimaginative, but their minds did not go on to the construction of any
myths which should be world-great and immortal; and one reason why they did not construct such
myths was that their intellectual progress was arrested at a comparatively early stage. It
was arrested because there was not that contact and competition with other peoples which demands
brain-work of an active kind as the alternative of subjugation, inferiority, or extinction,
and because, as we have already seen, the knowledge required of them was mainly the parrot-like
repetition of the old instead of the thinking-out of the new [1]--a state of things rendered
possible by the isolation just referred to. Confucius discountenanced discussion about the
supernatural, and just as it is probable that the exhortations of Wên Wang, the virtual founder
of the Chou dynasty (1121-255 B.C.), against drunkenness, in a time before tea was known to
them, helped to make the Chinese the sober people that they are, so it is probable--more than
probable--that this attitude of Confucius may have nipped in the bud much that might have developed
a vigorous mythology, though for a reason to be stated later it may be doubted if he thereby
deprived the world of any beautiful and marvellous results of the highest flights of poetical
creativeness. There are times, such as those of any great political upheaval, when human nature
will assert itself and break through its shackles in spite of all artificial or conventional
restraints. Considering the enormous influence of Confucianism throughout the latter half of
Chinese history--i.e. the last two thousand years--it is surprising that the Chinese dared
to think about supernatural matters at all, except in the matter of propitiating their dead
ancestors. That they did so is evidence not only of human nature's inherent tendency to tell
stories, but also of the irrepressible strength of feeling which breaks all laws and commandments
under great stimulus. On the opposing unæsthetic side this may be compared to the feeling which
prompts the unpremeditated assassination of a man who is guilty of great injustice, even though
it be certain that in due course he would have met his deserts at the hands of the public executioner.

The Influence of Religion

Apart from this, the influence of Confucianism would have been even greater than it was, but
for the imperial partiality periodically shown for rival doctrines, such as Buddhism and Taoism,
which threw their weight on the side of the supernatural, and which at times were exalted to
such great heights as to be officially recognized as State religions. These, Buddhism especially,
appealed to the popular imagination and love of the marvellous. Buddhism spoke of the future
state and the nature of the gods in no uncertain tones. It showed men how to reach the one
and attain to the other. Its founder was virtuous; his commandments pure and life-sustaining.
It supplied in great part what Confucianism lacked. And, as in the fifth and sixth centuries
A.D., when Buddhism and Taoism joined forces and a working union existed between them, they
practically excluded for the time all the "chilly growth of Confucian classicism."

Other opponents of myth, including a critical philosopher of great ability, we shall have occasion
to notice presently.

History and Myth

The sobriety and accuracy of Chinese historians is proverbial. I have dilated upon this in
another work, and need add here only what I inadvertently omitted there--a point hitherto unnoticed
or at least unremarked--that the very word for history in Chinese (shih) means impartiality
or an impartial annalist. It has been said that where there is much myth there is little history,
and vice versa, and though this may not be universally true, undoubtedly the persistently truthful
recording of facts, events, and sayings, even at the risk of loss, yea, and actual loss of
life of the historian as the result of his refusal to make false entries in his chronicle at
the bidding of the emperor (as in the case of the historiographers of Ch'i in 547 B.C.), indicates
a type of mind which would require some very strong stimulus to cause it to soar very far into
the hazy realms of fanciful imagination.

Chinese Rigidity

A further cause, already hinted at above, for the arrest of intellectual progress is to be
found in the growth of the nation in size during many centuries of isolation from the main
stream of world-civilization, without that increase in heterogeneity which comes from the moulding
by forces external to itself. "As iron sharpeneth iron, so a man sharpeneth the countenance
of his friend." Consequently we find China what is known to sociology as an 'aggregate of the
first order,' which during its evolution has parted with its internal life-heat without absorbing
enough from external sources to enable it to retain the plastic condition necessary to further,
or at least rapid, development. It is in a state of rigidity, a state recognized and understood
by the sociologist in his study of the evolution of nations.

The Prerequisites to Myth

But the mere increase of constructive imagination is not sufficient to produce myth. If it
were, it would be reasonable to argue that as intellectual progress goes on myths become more
numerous, and the greater the progress the greater the number of myths. This we do not find.
In fact, if constructive imagination went on increasing without the intervention of any further
factor, there need not necessarily be any myth at all. We might almost say that the reverse
is the case. We connect myth with primitive folk, not with the greatest philosophers or the
most advanced nations--not, that is, with the most advanced stages of national progress wherein
constructive imagination makes the nation great and strong. In these stages the philosopher
studies or criticizes myth, he does not make it.

In order that there may be myth, three further conditions must be fulfilled. There must, as
we have seen, be constructive imagination, but, nevertheless, there must not be too much of
it. As stated above, mythology, or rather myth, is the unscientific man's explanation. If the
constructive imagination is so great that it becomes self-critical, if the story-teller doubts
his own story, if, in short, his mind is scientific enough to see that his explanation is no
explanation at all, then there can be no myth properly so called. As in religion, unless the
myth-maker believes in his myth with all his heart and soul and strength, and each new disciple,
as it is cared for and grows under his hands during the course of years, holds that he must
put his shoes from off his feet because the place whereon he treads is holy ground, the faith
will not be propagated, for it will lack the vital spark which alone can make it a living thing.

Stimulus Necessary

The next condition is that there must be a stimulus. It is not ideas, but feelings, which govern
the world, and in the history of mythology where feeling is absent we find either weak imitation
or repetition of the myths of other peoples (though this must not be confused with certain
elements which seem to be common to the myths of all races), or concoction, contamination,
or "genealogical tree-making," or myths originated by "leisurely, peaceful tradition" and lacking
the essential qualities which appeal to the human soul and make their possessors very careful
to preserve them among their most loved and valued treasures. But, on the other hand, where
feeling is stirred, where the requisite stimulus exists, where the people are in great danger,
or allured by the prize of some breathless adventure, the contact produces the spark of divine
poetry, the myths are full of artistic, philosophic, and religious suggestiveness, and have
abiding significance and charm. They are the children, the poetic fruit, of great labour and
serious struggles, revealing the most fundamental forces, hopes, and cravings of the human
soul. Nations highly strung, undergoing strenuous emotion, intensely energized by constant
conflict with other nations, have their imagination stimulated to exceptional poetic creativeness.
The background of the Danaïds is Egyptian, not Greek, but it was the danger in which the Greeks
were placed in their wars with the sons of the land of the Pharaohs that stimulated the Greek
imagination to the creation of that great myth.

This explains why so many of the greatest myths have their staging, not in the country itself
whose treasured possessions they are, but where that country is 'playing the great game,' is
carrying on wars decisive of far-reaching national events, which arouse to the greatest pitch
of excitement the feelings both of the combatants and of those who are watching them from their
homes. It is by such great events, not by the romance-writer in his peaceful study, that mythology,
like literature, is "incisively determined." Imagination, we saw, goes pari passu with intellectual
progress, and intellectual progress, in early times, is furthered not so much by the mere contact
as by the actual conflict of nations. And we see also that myths may, and very frequently do,
have a character quite different from that of the nation to which they appertain, for environment
plays a most important part both in their inception and subsequent growth--a truth too obvious
to need detailed elaboration.

Persistent Soul-expression

A third condition is that the type of imagination must be persistent through fairly long periods
of time, otherwise not only will there be an absence of sufficient feeling or momentum to cause
the myths to be repeated and kept alive and transmitted to posterity, but the inducement to
add to them and so enable them to mature and become complete and finished off and sufficiently
attractive to appeal to the human mind in spite of the foreign character they often bear will
be lacking. In other words, myths and legends grow. They resemble not so much the narrative
of the story-teller or novelist as a gradually developing art like music, or a body of ideas
like philosophy. They are human and natural, though they express the thought not of any one
individual mind, but of the folk-soul, exemplifying in poetical form some great psychological
or physiographical truth.

The Character of Chinese Myth

The nature of the case thus forbids us to expect to find the Chinese myths exhibiting the advanced
state and brilliant heterogeneity of those which have become part of the world's permanent
literature. We must expect them to be true to type and conditions, as we expect the other ideas
of the Chinese to be, and looking for them in the light of this knowledge we shall find them
just where we should expect to find them.

The great sagas and eddas exalted among the world's literary masterpieces, and forming part
of the very life of a large number of its inhabitants, are absent in China. "The Chinese people,"
says one well-known sinologist, "are not prone to mythological invention." "He who expects
to find in Tibet," says another writer, "the poetical charm of Greek or Germanic mythology
will be disappointed. There is a striking poverty of imagination in all the myths and legends.
A great monotony pervades them all. Many of their stories, taken from the sacred texts, are
quite puerile and insipid. It may be noted that the Chinese mythology labours under the same
defect." And then there comes the crushing judgment of an over-zealous Christian missionary
sinologist: "There is no hierarchy of gods brought in to rule and inhabit the world they made,
no conclave on Mount Olympus, nor judgment of the mortal soul by Osiris, no transfer of human
love and hate, passions and hopes, to the powers above; all here is ascribed to disembodied
agencies or principles, and their works are represented as moving on in quiet order. There
is no religion [!], no imagination; all is impassible, passionless, uninteresting.... It has
not, as in Greece and Egypt, been explained in sublime poetry, shadowed forth in gorgeous ritual
and magnificent festivals, represented in exquisite sculptures, nor preserved in faultless,
imposing fanes and temples, filled with ideal creations." Besides being incorrect as to many
of its alleged facts, this view would certainly be shown by further study to be greatly exaggerated.

Periods Fertile in Myth

What we should expect, then, to find from our philosophical study of the Chinese mind as affected
by its surroundings would be barrenness of constructive imagination, except when birth was
given to myth through the operation of some external agency. And this we do find. The period
of the overthrow of the Yin dynasty and the establishment of the great house of Chou in 1122
B.C., or of the Wars of the Three States, for example, in the third century after Christ, a
time of terrible anarchy, a medieval age of epic heroism, sung in a hundred forms of prose
and verse, which has entered as motive into a dozen dramas, or the advent of Buddhism, which
opened up a new world of thought and life to the simple, sober, peace-loving agricultural folk
of China, were stimuli not by any means devoid of result. In China there are gods many and
heroes many, and the very fact of the existence of so great a multitude of gods would logically
imply a wealth of mythological lore inseparable from their apotheosis. You cannot--and the
Chinese cannot--get behind reason. A man is not made a god without some cause being assigned
for so important and far-reaching a step; and in matters of this sort the stated cause is apt
to take the form of a narrative more or less marvellous or miraculous. These resulting myths
may, of course, be born and grow at a later time than that in which the circumstances giving
rise to them took place, but, if so, that merely proves the persistent power of the originating
stimulus. That in China these narratives always or often reach the highest flights of constructive
imagination is not maintained--the maintenance of that argument would indeed be contradictory;
but even in those countries where the mythological garden has produced some of the finest flowers
millions of seeds must have been sown which either did not spring up at all or at least failed
to bring forth fruit. And in the realm of mythology it is not only those gods who sit in the
highest seats--creators of the world or heads of great religions--who dominate mankind; the
humbler, though often no less powerful gods or spirits--those even who run on all fours and
live in holes in the ground, or buzz through the air and have their thrones in the shadow of
a leaf--have often made a deeper impress on the minds and in the hearts of the people, and
through that impress, for good or evil, have, in greater or less degree, modified the life
of the visible universe.

Sources of Chinese Myth

"So, if we ask whence comes the heroic and the romantic, which supplies the story-teller's
stock-in-trade, the answer is easy. The legends and history of early China furnish abundance
of material for them. To the Chinese mind their ancient world was crowded with heroes, fairies,
and devils, who played their part in the mixed-up drama, and left a name and fame both remarkable
and piquant. Every one who is familiar with the ways and the language of the people knows that
the country is full of common objects to which poetic names have been given, and with many
of them there is associated a legend or a myth. A deep river's gorge is called 'the Blind Man's
Pass,' because a peculiar bit of rock, looked at from a certain angle, assumes the outline
of the human form, and there comes to be connected therewith a pleasing story which reaches
its climax in the petrifaction of the hero. A mountain's crest shaped like a swooping eagle
will from some one have received the name of 'Eagle Mountain,' whilst by its side another shaped
like a couchant lion will have a name to match. There is no lack of poetry among the people,
and most striking objects claim a poetic name, and not a few of them are associated with curious
legends. It is, however, to their national history that the story-teller goes for his most
interesting subjects, and as the so-called history of China imperceptibly passes into the legendary
period, and this again fades into the mythical, and as all this is assuredly believed by the
masses of the people, it is obvious that in the national life of China there is no dearth of
heroes whose deeds of prowess will command the rapt attention of the crowds who listen." [2]

The soul in China is everywhere in evidence, and if myths have "first and foremost to do with
the life of the soul" it would appear strange that the Chinese, having spiritualized everything
from a stone to the sky, have not been creative of myth. Why they have not the foregoing considerations
show us clearly enough. We must take them and their myths as we find them. Let us, then, note
briefly the result of their mental workings as reacted on by their environment.

Phases of Chinese Myth

We cannot identify the earliest mythology of the Chinese with that of any primitive race. The
myths, if any, of their place of origin may have faded and been forgotten in their slow migration
eastward. We cannot say that when they came from the West (which they probably did) they brought
their myths with them, for in spite of certain conjectural derivations from Babylon we do not
find them possessed of any which we can identify as imported by them at that time. But research
seems to have gone at least as far as this--namely, that while we cannot say that Chinese myth
was derived from Indian myth, there is good reason to believe that Chinese and Indian myth
had a common origin, which was of course outside of China.

To set forth in detail the various phases through which Chinese myth has passed would involve
a technical description foreign to the purpose of a popular work. It will sufficiently serve
our present purpose to outline its most prominent features.

In the earliest times there was an 'age of magic' followed by an 'heroic age,' but myths were
very rare before 800 B.C., and what is known as primitive mythology is said to have been invented
or imitated from foreign sources after 820 B.C. In the eighth century B.C. myths of an astrological
character began to attract attention. In the age of Lao Tzu (604 B.C.), the reputed founder
of the Taoist religion, fresh legends appear, though Lao Tzu himself, absorbed in the abstract,
records none. Neither did Confucius (551-479 B.C.) nor Mencius, who lived two hundred years
later, add any legends to history. But in the Period of the Warring States (500-100 B.C.) fresh
stimuli and great emotion prompted to mythological creation.

Tso-ch'iu Ming and Lieh Tzu

Tso-ch'iu Ming, commentator on Confucius's Annals, frequently introduced legend into his history.
Lieh Tzu (fifth and fourth centuries B.C.), a metaphysician, is one of the earliest authors
who deal in myths. He is the first to mention the story of Hsi Wang Mu, the Western Queen,
and from his day onward the fabulists have vied with one another in fantastic descriptions
of the wonders of her fairyland. He was the first to mention the islands of the immortals in
the ocean, the kingdoms of the dwarfs and giants, the fruit of immortality, the repairing of
the heavens by Nü Kua Shih with five-coloured stones, and the great tortoise which supports
the universe.

The T'ang and Sung Epochs

Religious romance began at this time. The T'ang epoch (A.B. 618-907) was one of the resurrection
of the arts of peace after a long period of dissension. A purer and more enduring form of intellect
was gradually overcoming the grosser but less solid superstition. Nevertheless the intellectual
movement which now manifested itself was not strong enough to prevail against the powers of
mythological darkness. It was reserved for the scholars of the Sung Period (A.D. 960-1280)
to carry through to victory a strong and sustained offensive against the spiritualistic obsessions
which had weighed upon the Chinese mind more or less persistently from the Han Period (206
B.C.-A.D. 221) onward. The dogma of materialism was specially cultivated at this time. The
struggle of sober reason against superstition or imaginative invention was largely a struggle
of Confucianism against Taoism. Though many centuries had elapsed since the great Master walked
the earth, the anti-myth movement of the T'ang and Sung Periods was in reality the long arm
and heavy fist of Confucius emphasizing a truer rationalism than that of his opponents and
denouncing the danger of leaving the firm earth to soar into the unknown hazy regions of fantasy.
It was Sung scholarship that gave the death-blow to Chinese mythology.

It is unnecessary to labour the point further, because after the Sung epoch we do not meet
with any period of new mythological creation, and its absence can be ascribed to no other cause
than its defeat at the hands of the Sung philosophers. After their time the tender plant was
always in danger of being stunted or killed by the withering blast of philosophical criticism.
Anything in the nature of myth ascribable to post-Sung times can at best be regarded only as
a late blossom born when summer days are past.

Myth and Doubt

It will bear repetition to say that unless the myth-builder firmly believes in his myth, be
he the layer of the foundation-stone or one of the raisers of the superstructure, he will hardly
make it a living thing. Once he believes in reincarnation and the suspension of natural laws,
the boundless vistas of space and the limitless æons of time are opened to him. He can perform
miracles which astound the world. But if he allow his mind to inquire, for instance, why it
should have been necessary for Elijah to part the waters of the Jordan with his garment in
order that he and Elisha might pass over dryshod, or for Bodhidharma to stand on a reed to
cross the great Yangtzu River, or for innumerable Immortals to sit on 'favourable clouds' to
make their journeys through space, he spoils myth--his child is stillborn or does not survive
to maturity. Though the growth of philosophy and decay of superstition may be good for a nation,
the process is certainly conducive to the destruction of its myth and much of its poetry. The
true mythologist takes myth for myth, enters into its spirit, and enjoys it.

We may thus expect to find in the realm of Chinese mythology a large number of little hills
rather than a few great mountains, but the little hills are very good ones after their kind;
and the object of this work is to present Chinese myth as it is, not as it might have been
had the universe been differently constituted. Nevertheless, if, as we may rightly do, we judge
of myth by the sentiments pervading it and the ideals upheld and taught by it, we shall find
that Chinese myth must be ranked among the greatest.

Myth and Legend

The general principles considered above, while they explain the paucity of myth in China, explain
also the abundance of legend there. The six hundred years during which the Mongols, Mings,
and Manchus sat upon the throne of China are barren of myth, but like all periods of the Chinese
national life are fertile in legend. And this chiefly for the reason that myths are more general,
national, divine, while legends are more local, individual, human. And since, in China as elsewhere,
the lower classes are as a rule less educated and more superstitious than the upper classes--have
a certain amount of constructive imagination, but not enough to be self-critical--legends,
rejected or even ridiculed by the scholarly class when their knowledge has become sufficiently
scientific, continue to be invented and believed in by the peasant and the dweller in districts
far from the madding crowd long after myth, properly so called, has exhaled its last breath.

CHAPTER III

Cosmogony-p'an Ku and the Creation Myth

The Fashioner of the Universe

The most conspicuous figure in Chinese cosmogony is P'an Ku. He it was who chiselled the universe
out of Chaos. According to Chinese ideas, he was the offspring of the original dual powers
of Nature, the yin and the yang (to be considered presently), which, having in some incomprehensible
way produced him, set him the task of giving form to Chaos and "making the heavens and the earth."

Some accounts describe him as the actual creator of the universe--"the ancestor of Heaven and
earth and all that live and move and have their being." 'P'an' means 'the shell of an egg,'
and 'Ku' 'to secure,' 'solid,' referring to P'an Ku being hatched from out of Chaos and to
his settling the arrangement of the causes to which his origin was due. The characters themselves
may, however, mean nothing more than 'Researches into antiquity,' though some bolder translators
have assigned to them the significance if not the literal sense of 'aboriginal abyss,' or the
Babylonian Tiamat, 'the Deep.'

P'an Ku is pictured as a man of dwarfish stature clothed in bearskin, or merely in leaves or
with an apron of leaves. He has two horns on his head. In his right hand he holds a hammer
and in his left a chisel (sometimes these are reversed), the only implements he used in carrying
out his great task. Other pictures show him attended in his labours by the four supernatural
creatures--the unicorn, phoenix, tortoise, and dragon; others again with the sun in one hand
and the moon in the other, some of the firstfruits of his stupendous labours. (The reason for
these being there will be apparent presently.) His task occupied eighteen thousand years, during
which he formed the sun, moon, and stars, the heavens and the earth, himself increasing in
stature day by day, being daily six feet taller than the day before, until, his labours ended,
he died that his works might live. [3]

This account of P'an Ku and his achievements is of Taoist origin. The Buddhists have given
a somewhat different account of him, which is a late adaptation from the Taoist myth, and must
not be mistaken for Buddhist cosmogony proper. [4]

The Sun and the Moon

In some of the pictures of P'an Ku he is represented, as already noted, as holding the sun
in one hand and the moon in the other. Sometimes they are in the form of those bodies, sometimes
in the classic character. The legend says that when P'an Ku put things in order in the lower
world, he did not put these two luminaries in their proper courses, so they retired into the
Han Sea, and the people dwelt in darkness. The Terrestrial Emperor sent an officer, Terrestrial
Time, with orders that they should come forth and take their places in the heavens and give
the world day and night. They refused to obey the order. They were reported to Ju Lai; P'an
Ku was called, and, at the divine direction of Buddha, wrote the character for 'sun' in his
left hand, and that for 'moon' in his right hand; and went to the Han Sea, and stretched forth
his left hand and called the sun, and then stretched forth his right hand and called the moon,
at the same time repeating a charm devoutly seven times; and they forthwith ascended on high,
and separated time into day and night. [5]

Other legends recount that P'an Ku had the head of a dragon and the body of a serpent; and
that by breathing he caused the wind, by opening his eyes he created day, his voice made the
thunder, etc.

P'an Ku and Ymer

Thus we have the heavens and the earth fashioned by this wonderful being in eighteen thousand
years. With regard to him we may adapt the Scandinavian ballad:

    It was Time's morning
    When P'an Ku lived;
    There was no sand, no sea,
    Nor cooling billows;

    Earth there was none,
    No lofty Heaven;
    No spot of living green;
    Only a deep profound.

And it is interesting to note, in passing, the similarity between this Chinese artificer of
the universe and Ymer, the giant, who discharges the same functions in Scandinavian mythology.
Though P'an Ku did not have the same kind of birth nor meet with the violent death of the latter,
the results as regards the origin of the universe seem to have been pretty much the same. [6]

P'an Ku a Late Creation

But though the Chinese creation myth deals with primeval things it does not itself belong to
a primitive time. According to some writers whose views are entitled to respect, it was invented
during the fourth century A.D. by the Taoist recluse, Magistrate Ko Hung, author of the Shên
hsien chuan (Biographies of the Gods). The picturesque person of P'an Ku is said to have been
a concession to the popular dislike of, or inability to comprehend, the abstract. He was conceived,
some Chinese writers say, because the philosophical explanations of the Cosmos were too recondite
for the ordinary mind to grasp. That he did fulfil the purpose of furnishing the ordinary mind
with a fairly easily comprehensible picture of the creation may be admitted; but, as will presently
be seen, it is over-stating the case to say that he was conceived with the set purpose of furnishing
the ordinary mind with a concrete solution or illustration of this great problem. There is
no evidence that P'an Ku had existed as a tradition before the time when we meet with the written
account of him; and, what is more, there is no evidence that there existed any demand on the
part of the popular mind for any such solution or illustration. The ordinary mind would seem
to have been either indifferent to or satisfied with the abstruse cosmogonical and cosmological
theories of the early sages for at least a thousand years. The cosmogonies of the I ching,
of Lao Tzu, Confucius (such as it was), Kuan Tzu, Mencius, Chuang Tzu, were impersonal. P'an
Ku and his myth must be regarded rather as an accident than as a creation resulting from any
sudden flow of psychological forces or wind of discontent ruffling the placid Chinese mind.
If the Chinese brought with them from Babylon or anywhere else the elements of a cosmogony,
whether of a more or less abstruse scientific nature or a personal mythological narrative,
it must have been subsequently forgotten or at least has not survived in China. But for Ko
Hung's eccentricity and his wish to experiment with cinnabar from Cochin-China in order to
find the elixir of life, P'an Ku would probably never have been invented, and the Chinese mind
would have been content to go on ignoring the problem or would have quietly acquiesced in the
abstract philosophical explanations of the learned which it did not understand. Chinese cosmogony
would then have consisted exclusively of the recondite impersonal metaphysics which the Chinese
mind had entertained or been fed on for the nine hundred or more years preceding the invention
of the P'an Ku myth.

Nü Kua Shih, the Repairer of the Heavens

It is true that there exist one or two other explanations of the origin of things which introduce
a personal creator. There is, for instance, the legend--first mentioned by Lieh Tzu (to whom
we shall revert later)--which represents Nü Kua Shih (also called Nü Wa and Nü Hsi), said to
have been the sister and successor of Fu Hsi, the mythical sovereign whose reign is ascribed
to the years 2953-2838 B.C., as having been the creator of human beings when the earth first
emerged from Chaos. She (or he, for the sex seems uncertain), who had the "body of a serpent
and head of an ox" (or a human head and horns of an ox, according to some writers), "moulded
yellow earth and made man." Ssu-ma Chêng, of the eighth century A.D., author of the Historical
Records and of another work on the three great legendary emperors, Fu Hsi, Shên Nung, and Huang
Ti, gives the following account of her: "Fu Hsi was succeeded by Nü Kua, who like him had the
surname Fêng. Nü Kua had the body of a serpent and a human head, with the virtuous endowments
of a divine sage. Toward the end of her reign there was among the feudatory princes Kung Kung,
whose functions were the administration of punishment. Violent and ambitious, he became a rebel,
and sought by the influence of water to overcome that of wood [under which Nü Kua reigned].
He did battle with Chu Jung [said to have been one of the ministers of Huang Ti, and later
the God of Fire], but was not victorious; whereupon he struck his head against the Imperfect
Mountain, Pu Chou Shan, and brought it down. The pillars of Heaven were broken and the corners
of the earth gave way. Hereupon Nü Kua melted stones of the five colours to repair the heavens,
and cut off the feet of the tortoise to set upright the four extremities of the earth. [7]
Gathering the ashes of reeds she stopped the flooding waters, and thus rescued the land of
Chi, Chi Chou [the early seat of the Chinese sovereignty]."

Another account separates the name and makes Nü and Kua brother and sister, describing them
as the only two human beings in existence. At the creation they were placed at the foot of
the K'un-lun Mountains. Then they prayed, saying, "If thou, O God, hast sent us to be man and
wife, the smoke of our sacrifice will stay in one place; but if not, it will be scattered."
The smoke remained stationary.

But though Nü Kua is said to have moulded the first man (or the first human beings) out of
clay, it is to be noted that, being only the successor of Fu Hsi, long lines of rulers had
preceded her of whom no account is given, and also that, as regards the heavens and the earth
at least, she is regarded as the repairer and not the creator of them.

Heaven-deaf (T'ien-lung) and Earth-dumb (Ti-ya), the two attendants of Wên Ch'ang, the God
of Literature (see following chapter), have also been drawn into the cosmogonical net. From
their union came the heavens and the earth, mankind, and all living things.

These and other brief and unelaborated personal cosmogonies, even if not to be regarded as
spurious imitations, certainly have not become established in the Chinese mind as the explanation
of the way in which the universe came to be: in this sphere the P'an Ku legend reigns supreme;
and, owing to its concrete, easily apprehensible nature, has probably done so ever since the
time of its invention.

Early Cosmogony Dualistic

The period before the appearance of the P'an Ku myth may be divided into two parts; that from
some early unknown date up to about the middle of the Confucian epoch, say 500 B.C., and that
from 500 B.C. to A.D. 400. We know that during the latter period the minds of Chinese scholars
were frequently occupied with speculations as to the origin of the universe. Before 500 B.C.
we have no documentary remains telling us what the Chinese believed about the origin of things;
but it is exceedingly unlikely that no theories or speculations at all concerning the origin
of themselves and their surroundings were formed by this intelligent people during the eighteen
centuries or more which preceded the date at which we find the views held by them put into
written form. It is safe to assume that the dualism which later occupied their philosophical
thoughts to so great an extent as almost to seem inseparable from them, and exercised so powerful
an influence throughout the course of their history, was not only formulating itself during
that long period, but had gradually reached an advanced stage. We may even go so far as to
say that dualism, or its beginnings, existed in the very earliest times, for the belief in
the second self or ghost or double of the dead is in reality nothing else. And we find it operating
with apparently undiminished energy after the Chinese mind had reached its maturity in the
Sung dynasty.

The Canon of Changes

The Bible of Chinese dualism is the I ching, the Canon of Changes (or Permutations). It is
held in great veneration both on account of its antiquity and also because of the "unfathomable
wisdom which is supposed to lie concealed under its mysterious symbols." It is placed first
in the list of the classics, or Sacred Books, though it is not the oldest of them. When exactly
the work itself on which the subsequent elaborations were founded was composed is not now known.
Its origin is attributed to the legendary emperor Fu Hsi (2953-2838 B.C.). It does not furnish
a cosmogony proper, but merely a dualistic system as an explanation, or attempted explanation,
or even perhaps orly a record, of the constant changes (in modern philosophical language the
"redistribution of matter and motion") going on everywhere. That explanation or record was
used for purposes of divination. This dualistic system, by a simple addition, became a monism,
and at the same time furnished the Chinese with a cosmogony.

The Five Elements

The Five Elements or Forces (wu hsing)--which, according to the Chinese, are metal, air, fire,
water, and wood--are first mentioned in Chinese literature in a chapter of the classic Book
of History. [8] They play a very important part in Chinese thought: 'elements' meaning generally
not so much the actual substances as the forces essential to human, life. They have to be noticed
in passing, because they were involved in the development of the cosmogonical ideas which took
place in the eleventh and twelfth centuries A.D.

Monism

As their imagination grew, it was natural that the Chinese should begin to ask themselves what,
if the yang and the yin by their permutations produced, or gave shape to, all things, was it
that produced the yang and the yin. When we see traces of this inquisitive tendency we find
ourselves on the borderland of dualism where the transition is taking place into the realm
of monism. But though there may have been a tendency toward monism in early times, it was only
in the Sung dynasty that the philosophers definitely placed behind the yang and the yin a First
Cause--the Grand Origin, Grand Extreme, Grand Terminus, or Ultimate Ground of Existence. [9]
They gave to it the name t'ai chi, and represented it by a concrete sign, the symbol of a circle.
The complete scheme shows the evolution of the Sixty-four Diagrams (kua) from the t'ai chi
through the yang and the yin, the Four, Eight, Sixteen, and Thirty-two Diagrams successively.
This conception was the work of the Sung philosopher Chou Tun-i (A.D. 1017-73), commonly known
as Chou Tzu, and his disciple Chu Hsi (A.D. 1130-1200), known as Chu Tzu or Chu Fu Tzu, the
famous historian and Confucian commentator--two of the greatest names in Chinese philosophy.
It was at this time that the tide of constructive imagination in China, tinged though it always
was with classical Confucianism, rose to its greatest height. There is the philosopher's seeking
for causes. Yet in this matter of the First Cause we detect, in the full flood of Confucianism,
the potent influence of Taoist and Buddhist speculations. It has even been said that the Sung
philosophy, which grew, not from the I ching itself, but from the appendixes to it, is more
Taoistic than Confucian. As it was with the P'an Ku legend, so was it with this more philosophical
cosmogony. The more fertile Taoist and Buddhist imaginations led to the preservation of what
the Confucianists, distrusting the marvellous, would have allowed to die a natural death. It
was, after all, the mystical foreign elements which gave point to--we may rightly say rounded
off--the early dualism by converting it into monism, carrying philosophical speculation from
the Knowable to the Unknowable, and furnishing the Chinese with their first scientific theory
of the origin, not of the changes going on in the universe (on which they had already formed
their opinions), but of the universe itself.

Chou Tzu's "T'ai Chi T'u"

Chou Tun-i, appropriately apotheosized as 'Prince in the Empire of Reason,' completed and systematized
the philosophical world-conception which had hitherto obtained in the Chinese mind. He did
not ask his fellow-countrymen to discard any part of what they had long held in high esteem:
he raised the old theories from the sphere of science to that of philosophy by unifying them
and bringing them to a focus. And he made this unification intelligible to the Chinese mind
by his famous T'ai chi t'u, or Diagram of the Great Origin (or Grand Terminus), showing that
the Grand Original Cause, itself uncaused, produces the yang and the yin, these the Five Elements,
and so on, through the male and female norms (tao), to the production of all things.

Chu Hsi's Monistic Philosophy

The writings of Chu Hsi, especially his treatise on The Immaterial Principle [li] and Primary
Matter [ch'i], leave no doubt as to the monism of his philosophy. In this work occurs the passage:
"In the universe there exists no primary matter devoid of the immaterial principle; and no
immaterial principle apart from primary matter"; and although the two are never separated "the
immaterial principle [as Chou Tzu explains] is what is previous to form, while primary matter
is what is subsequent to form," the idea being that the two are different manifestations of
the same mysterious force from which all things proceed.

It is unnecessary to follow this philosophy along all the different branches which grew out
of it, for we are here concerned only with the seed. We have observed how Chinese dualism became
a monism, and how while the monism was established the dualism was retained. It is this mono-dualistic
theory, combining the older and newer philosophy, which in China, then as now, constitutes
the accepted explanation of the origin of things, of the universe itself and all that it contains.

Lao Tzu's "Tao"

There are other cosmogonies in Chinese philosophy, but they need not detain us long. Lao Tzu
(sixth century B.C.), in his Tao-tê ching, The Canon of Reason and Virtue (at first entitled
simply Lao Tzu), gave to the then existing scattered sporadic conceptions of the universe a
literary form. His tao, or 'Way,' is the originator of Heaven and earth, it is "the mother
of all things." His Way, which was "before God," is but a metaphorical expression for the manner
in which things came at first into being out of the primal nothingness, and how the phenomena
of nature continue to go on, "in stillness and quietness, without striving or crying." Lao
Tzu is thus so far monistic, but he is also mystical, transcendental, even pantheistic. The
way that can be walked is not the Eternal Way; the name that can be named is not the Eternal
Name. The Unnameable is the originator of Heaven and earth; manifesting itself as the Nameable,
it is "the mother of all things." "In Eternal Non-Being I see the Spirituality of Things; in
Eternal Being their limitation. Though different under these two aspects, they are the same
in origin; it is when development takes place that different names have to be used. It is while
they are in the condition of sameness that the mystery concerning them exists. This mystery
is indeed the mystery of mysteries. It is the door of all spirituality."

This tao, indefinable and in its essence unknowable, is "the fountain-head of all beings, and
the norm of all actions. But it is not only the formative principle of the universe; it also
seems to be primordial matter: chaotic in its composition, born prior to Heaven and earth,
noiseless, formless, standing alone in its solitude, and not changing, universal in its activity,
and unrelaxing, without being exhausted, it is capable of becoming the mother of the universe."
And there we may leave it. There is no scheme of creation, properly so called. The Unwalkable
Way leads us to nothing further in the way of a cosmogony.

Confucius's Agnosticism

Confucius (551-479 B.C.) did not throw any light on the problem of origin. He did not speculate
on the creation of things nor the end of them. He was not troubled to account for the origin
of man, nor did he seek to know about his hereafter. He meddled neither with physics nor metaphysics.
There might, he thought, be something on the other side of life, for he admitted the existence
of spiritual beings. They had an influence on the living, because they caused them to clothe
themselves in ceremonious dress and attend to the sacrificial ceremonies. But we should not
trouble ourselves about them, any more than about supernatural things, or physical prowess,
or monstrosities. How can we serve spiritual beings while we do not know how to serve men?
We feel the existence of something invisible and mysterious, but its nature and meaning are
too deep for the human understanding to grasp. The safest, indeed the only reasonable, course
is that of the agnostic--to leave alone the unknowable, while acknowledging its existence and
its mystery, and to try to understand knowable phenomena and guide our actions accordingly.

Between the monism of Lao Tzu and the positivism of Confucius on the one hand, and the landmark
of the Taoistic transcendentalism of Chuang Tzu (fourth and third centuries B.C.) on the other,
we find several "guesses at the riddle of existence" which must be briefly noted as links in
the chain of Chinese speculative thought on this important subject.

Mo Tzu and Creation

In the philosophy of Mo Ti (fifth and fourth centuries B.C.), generally known as Mo Tzu or
Mu Tzu, the philosopher of humanism and utilitarianism, we find the idea of creation. It was,
he says, Heaven (which was anthropomorphically regarded by him as a personal Supreme Being)
who "created the sun, moon, and innumerable stars." His system closely resembles Christianity,
but the great power of Confucianism as a weapon wielded against all opponents by its doughty
defender Mencius (372-289 B.C.) is shown by the complete suppression of the influence of Mo
Tzuism at his hands. He even went so far as to describe Mo Tzu and those who thought with him
as "wild animals."

Mencius and the First Cause

Mencius himself regarded Heaven as the First Cause, or Cause of Causes, but it was not the
same personal Heaven as that of Mo Tzu. Nor does he hang any cosmogony upon it. His chief concern
was to eulogize the doctrines of the great Confucius, and like him he preferred to let the
origin of the universe look after itself.

Lieh Tzu's Absolute

Lieh Tzu (said to have lived in the fifth century B.C.), one of the brightest stars in the
Taoist constellation, considered this nameable world as having evolved from an unnameable absolute
being. The evolution did not take place through the direction of a personal will working out
a plan of creation: "In the beginning there was Chaos [hun tun]. It was a mingled potentiality
of Form [hsing], Pneuma [ch'i], and Substance [chih]. A Great Change [t'ai i] took place in
it, and there was a Great Starting [t'ai ch'u] which is the beginning of Form. The Great Starting
evolved a Great Beginning [t'ai shih], which is the inception of Pneuma. The Great Beginning
was followed by the Great Blank [t'ai su], which is the first formation of Substance. Substance,
Pneuma, and Form being all evolved out of the primordial chaotic mass, this material world
as it lies before us came into existence." And that which made it possible for Chaos to evolve
was the Solitary Indeterminate (i tu or the tao), which is not created, but is able to create
everlastingly. And being both Solitary and Indeterminate it tells us nothing determinate about
itself.

Chuang Tzu's Super-tao

Chuang Chou (fourth and third centuries B.C.), generally known as Chuang Tzu, the most brilliant
Taoist of all, maintained with Lao Tzu that the universe started from the Nameless, but it
was if possible a more absolute and transcendental Nameless than that of Lao Tzu. He dwells
on the relativity of knowledge; as when asleep he did not know that he was a man dreaming that
he was a butterfly, so when awake he did not know that he was not a butterfly dreaming that
he was a man. [10] But "all is embraced in the obliterating unity of the tao, and the wise
man, passing into the realm of the Infinite, finds rest therein." And this tao, of which we
hear so much in Chinese philosophy, was before the Great Ultimate or Grand Terminus (t'ai chi),
and "from it came the mysterious existence of God [ti]. It produced Heaven, it produced earth."

Popular Cosmogony still Personal or Dualistic

These and other cosmogonies which the Chinese have devised, though it is necessary to note
their existence in order to give a just idea of their cosmological speculations, need not,
as I said, detain us long; and the reason why they need not do so is that, in the matter of
cosmogony, the P'an Ku legend and the yin-yang system with its monistic elaboration occupy
virtually the whole field of the Chinese mental vision. It is these two--the popular and the
scientific--that we mean when we speak of Chinese cosmogony. Though here and there a stern
sectarian might deny that the universe originated in one or the other of these two ways, still,
the general rule holds good. And I have dealt with them in this order because, though the P'an
Ku legend belongs to the fourth century A.D., the I ching dualism was not, rightly speaking,
a cosmogony until Chou Tun-i made it one by the publication of his T'ai chi t'u in the eleventh
century A.D. Over the unscientific and the scientific minds of the Chinese these two are paramount.

Applying the general principles stated in the preceding chapter, we find the same cause which
operated to restrict the growth of mythology in general in China operated also in like manner
in this particular branch of it. With one exception Chinese cosmogony is non-mythological.
The careful and studiously accurate historians (whose work aimed at being ex veritate, 'made
of truth'), the sober literature, the vast influence of agnostic, matter-of-fact Confucianism,
supported by the heavy Mencian artillery, are indisputable indications of a constructive imagination
which grew too quickly and became too rapidly scientific to admit of much soaring into the
realms of fantasy. Unaroused by any strong stimulus in their ponderings over the riddle of
the universe, the sober, plodding scientists and the calm, truth-loving philosophers gained
a peaceful victory over the mythologists.

CHAPTER IV

The Gods of China

The Birth of the Soul

The dualism noted in the last chapter is well illustrated by the Chinese pantheon. Whether
as the result of the co-operation of the yin and the yang or of the final dissolution of P'an
Ku, human beings came into existence. To the primitive mind the body and its shadow, an object
and its reflection in water, real life and dream life, sensibility and insensibility (as in
fainting, etc.), suggest the idea of another life parallel with this life and of the doings
of the 'other self' in it. This 'other self,' this spirit, which leaves the body for longer
or shorter intervals in dreams, swoons, death, may return or be brought back, and the body
revive. Spirits which do not return or are not brought back may cause mischief, either alone,
or by entry into another human or animal body or even an inanimate object, and should therefore
be propitiated. Hence worship and deification.

The Populous Otherworld

The Chinese pantheon has gradually become so multitudinous that there is scarcely a being or
thing which is not, or has not been at some time or other, propitiated or worshipped. As there
are good and evil people in this world, so there are gods and demons in the Otherworld: we
find a polytheism limited only by a polydemonism. The dualistic hierarchy is almost all-embracing.
To get a clear idea of this populous Otherworld, of the supernal and infernal hosts and their
organizations, it needs but to imagine the social structure in its main features as it existed
throughout the greater part of Chinese history, and to make certain additions. The social structure
consisted of the ruler, his court, his civil, military, and ecclesiastical officials, and his
subjects (classed as Scholars--officials and gentry--Agriculturists, Artisans, and Merchants,
in that order).

Worship of Shang Ti

When these died, their other selves continued to exist and to hold the same rank in the spirit
world as they did in this one. The ti, emperor, became the Shang Ti, Emperor on High, who dwelt
in T'ien, Heaven (originally the great dome). [11] And Shang Ti, the Emperor on High, was worshipped
by ti, the emperor here below, in order to pacify or please him--to ensure a continuance of
his benevolence on his behalf in the world of spirits. Confusion of ideas and paucity of primitive
language lead to personification and worship of a thing or being in which a spirit has taken
up its abode in place of or in addition to worship of the spirit itself. Thus Heaven (T'ien)
itself came to be personified and worshipped in addition to Shang Ti, the Emperor who had gone
to Heaven, and who was considered as the chief ruler in the spiritual world. The worship of
Shang Ti was in existence before that of T'ien was introduced. Shang Ti was worshipped by the
emperor and his family as their ancestor, or the head of the hierarchy of their ancestors.
The people could not worship Shang Ti, for to do so would imply a familiarity or a claim of
relationship punishable with death. The emperor worshipped his ancestors, the officials theirs,
the people theirs. But, in the same way and sense that the people worshipped the emperor on
earth, as the 'father' of the nation, namely, by adoration and obeisance, so also could they
in this way and this sense worship Shang Ti. An Englishman may take off his hat as the king
passes in the street to his coronation without taking any part in the official service in Westminster
Abbey. So the 'worship' of Shang Ti by the people was not done officially or with any special
ceremonial or on fixed State occasions, as in the case of the worship of Shang Ti by the emperor.
This, subject to a qualification to be mentioned later, is really all that is meant (or should
be meant) when it is said that the Chinese worship Shang Ti.

As regards sacrifices to Shang Ti, these could be offered officially only by the emperor, as
High Priest on earth, who was attended or assisted in the ceremonies by members of his own
family or clan or the proper State officials (often, even in comparatively modern times, members
of the imperial family or clan). In these official sacrifices, which formed part of the State
worship, the people could not take part; nor did they at first offer sacrifices to Shang Ti
in their own homes or elsewhere. In what way and to what extent they did so later will be shown
presently.

Worship of T'ien

Owing to T'ien, Heaven, the abode of the spirits, becoming personified, it came to be worshipped
not only by the emperor, but by the people also. But there was a difference between these two
worships, because the emperor performed his worship of Heaven officially at the great altar
of the Temple of Heaven at Peking (in early times at the altar in the suburb of the capital),
whereas the people (continuing always to worship their ancestors) worshipped Heaven, when they
did so at all--the custom being observed by some and not by others, just as in Western countries
some people go to church, while others stay away--usually at the time of the New Year, in a
simple, unceremonious way, by lighting some incense-sticks and waving them toward the sky in
the courtyards of their own houses or in the street just outside their doors.

Confusion of Shang Ti and T'ien

The qualification necessary to the above description is that, as time went on and especially
since the Sung dynasty (A.D. 960-1280), much confusion arose regarding Shang Ti and T'ien,
and thus it came about that the terms became mixed and their definitions obscure. This confusion
of ideas has prevailed down to the present time. One result of this is that the people may
sometimes state, when they wave their incense-sticks or light their candles, that their humble
sacrifice is made to Shang Ti, whom in reality they have no right either to worship or to offer
sacrifice to, but whom they may unofficially pay respect and make obeisance to, as they might
and did to the emperor behind the high boards on the roadsides which shielded him from their
view as he was borne along in his elaborate procession on the few occasions when he came forth
from the imperial city.

Thus we find that, while only the emperor could worship and sacrifice to Shang Ti, and only
he could officially worship and sacrifice to T'ien, the people who early personified and worshipped
T'ien, as already shown, came, owing to confusion of the meanings of Shang Ti and T'ien, unofficially
to 'worship' both, but only in the sense and to the extent indicated, and to offer 'sacrifices'
to both, also only in the sense and to the extent indicated. But for these qualifications,
the statement that the Chinese worship and sacrifice to Shang Ti and T'ien would be apt to
convey an incorrect idea.

From this it will be apparent that Shang Ti, the Supreme Ruler on High, and T'ien, Heaven (later
personified), do not mean 'God' in the sense that the word is used in the Christian religion.
To state that they do, as so many writers on China have done, without pointing out the essential
differences, is misleading. That Chinese religion was or is "a monotheistic worship of God"
is further disproved by the fact that Shang Ti and T'ien do not appear in the list of the popular
pantheon at all, though all the other gods are there represented. Neither Shang Ti nor T'ien
mean the God of Abraham, Isaac, and Jacob, or the Father, Son, and Holy Ghost of the New Testament.
Did they mean this, the efforts of the Christian missionaries to convert the Chinese would
be largely superfluous. The Christian religion, even the Holy Trinity, is a monotheism. That
the Chinese religion (even though a summary of extracts from the majority of foreign books
on China might point to its being so) is not a monotheism, but a polytheism or even a pantheism
(as long as that term is taken in the sense of universal deification and not in that of one
spiritual being immanent in all things), the rest of this chapter will abundantly prove.

There have been three periods in which gods have been created in unusually large numbers: that
of the mythical emperor Hsien Yüan (2698-2598 B.C.), that of Chiang Tzu-ya (in the twelfth
century B.C.), and that of the first emperor of the Ming dynasty (in the fourteenth century A.D.).

The Otherworld Similar to this World

The similarity of the Otherworld to this world above alluded to is well shown by Du Bose in
his Dragon, Image, and, Demon, from which I quote the following passages:

"The world of spirits is an exact counterpart of the Chinese Empire, or, as has been remarked,
it is 'China ploughed under'; this is the world of light; put out the lights and you have Tartarus.
China has eighteen [now twenty-two] provinces, so has Hades; each province has eight or nine
prefects, or departments; so each province in Hades has eight or nine departments; every prefect
or department averages ten counties, so every department in Hades has ten counties. In Soochow
the Governor, the provincial Treasurer, the Criminal Judge, the Intendant of Circuit, the Prefect
or Departmental Governor, and the three District Magistrates or County Governors each have
temples with their apotheoses in the other world. Not only these, but every yamên secretary,
runner, executioner, policeman, and constable has his counterpart in the land of darkness.
The market-towns have also mandarins of lesser rank in charge, besides a host of revenue collectors,
the bureau of government works and other departments, with several hundred thousand officials,
who all rank as gods beyond the grave. These deities are civilians; the military having a similar
gradation for the armies of Hades, whose captains are gods, and whose battalions are devils.

"The framers of this wonderful scheme for the spirits of the dead, having no higher standard,
transferred to the authorities of that world the etiquette, tastes, and venality of their correlate
officials in the Chinese Government, thus making it necessary to use similar means to appease
the one which are found necessary to move the other. All the State gods have their assistants,
attendants, door-keepers, runners, horses, horsemen, detectives, and executioners, corresponding
in every particular to those of Chinese officials of the same rank." (Pp. 358-359.)

This likeness explains also why the hierarchy of beings in the Otherworld concerns itself not
only with the affairs of the Otherworld, but with those of this world as well. So faithful
is the likeness that we find the gods (the term is used in this chapter to include goddesses,
who are, however, relatively few) subjected to many of the rules and conditions existing on
this earth. Not only do they, as already shown, differ in rank, but they hold levées and audiences
and may be promoted for distinguished services, just as the Chinese officials are. They "may
rise from an humble position to one near the Pearly Emperor, who gives them the reward of merit
for ruling well the affairs of men. The correlative deities of the mandarins are only of equal
rank, yet the fact that they have been apotheosized makes them their superiors and fit objects
of worship. Chinese mandarins rotate in office, generally every three years, and then there
is a corresponding change in Hades. The image in the temple remains the same, but the spirit
which dwells in the clay tabernacle changes, so the idol has a different name, birthday, and
tenant. The priests are informed by the Great Wizard of the Dragon Tiger Mountain, but how
can the people know gods which are not the same to-day as yesterday?" (Pp. 360-361.)

The gods also indulge in amusements, marry, sin, are punished, die, are resurrected, or die
and are transformed, or die finally. [12]

The Three Religions

We have in China the universal worship of ancestors, which constitutes (or did until A.D. 1912)
the State religion, usually known as Confucianism, and in addition we have the gods of the
specific religions (which also originally took their rise in ancestor-worship), namely, Buddhism
and Taoism. (Other religions, though tolerated, are not recognized as Chinese religions.) It
is with a brief account of this great hierarchy and its mythology that we will now concern
ourselves.

Besides the ordinary ancestor-worship (as distinct from the State worship) the people took
to Buddhism and Taoism, which became the popular religions, and the literati also honoured
the gods of these two sects. Buddhist deities gradually became installed in Taoist temples,
and the Taoist immortals were given seats beside the Buddhas in their sanctuaries. Every one
patronized the god who seemed to him the most popular and the most lucrative. There even came
to be united in the same temple and worshipped at the same altar the three religious founders
or figure-heads, Confucius, Buddha, and Lao Tzu. The three religions were even regarded as
forming one whole, or at least, though different, as having one and the same object: san êrh
i yeh, or han san wei i, "the three are one," or "the three unite to form one" (a quotation
from the phrase T'ai chi han san wei i of Fang Yü-lu: "When they reach the extreme the three
are seen to be one"). In the popular pictorial representations of the pantheon this impartiality
is clearly shown.

The Super-triad

The toleration, fraternity, or co-mixture of the three religions--ancestor-worship or Confucianism,
Chinese Buddhism, and Taoism--explains the compound nature of the triune head of the Chinese
pantheon. The numerous deities of Buddhism and Taoism culminate each in a triad of gods (the
Three Precious Ones and the Three Pure Ones respectively), but the three religions jointly
have also a triad compounded of one representative member of each. This general or super-triad
is, of course, composed of Confucius, Lao Tzu, and Buddha. This is the officially decreed order,
though it is varied occasionally by Buddha being placed in the centre (the place of honour)
as an act of ceremonial deference shown to a 'stranger' or 'guest' from another country.

Worship of the Living

Before proceeding to consider the gods of China in detail, it is necessary to note that ancestor-worship,
which, as before stated, is worship of the ghosts of deceased persons, who are usually but
not invariably relatives of the worshipper, has at times a sort of preliminary stage in this
world consisting of the worship of living beings. Emperors, viceroys, popular officials, or
people beloved for their good deeds have had altars, temples, and images erected to them, where
they are worshipped in the same way as those who have already "shuffled off this mortal coil."
The most usual cases are perhaps those of the worship of living emperors and those in which
some high official who has gained the gratitude of the people is transferred to another post.
The explanation is simple. The second self which exists after death is identical with the second
self inhabiting the body during life. Therefore it may be propitiated or gratified by sacrifices
of food, drink, etc., or theatricals performed in its honour, and continue its protection and
good offices even though now far away.

Confucianism

Confucianism (Ju Chiao) is said to be the religion of the learned, and the learned were the
officials and the literati or lettered class, which includes scholars waiting for posts, those
who have failed to get posts (or, though qualified, prefer to live in retirement), and those
who have retired from posts. Of this 'religion' it has been said:

"The name embraces education, letters, ethics, and political philosophy. Its head was not a
religious man, practised few religious rites, and taught nothing about religion. In its usual
acceptation the term Confucianist means 'a gentleman and a scholar'; he may worship only once
a year, yet he belongs to the Church. Unlike its two sisters, it has no priesthood, and fundamentally
is not a religion at all; yet with the many rites grafted on the original tree it becomes a
religion, and the one most difficult to deal with. Considered as a Church, the classics are
its scriptures, the schools its churches, the teachers its priests, ethics its theology, and
the written character, so sacred, its symbol." [13]

Confucius not a God

It should be noted that Confucius himself is not a god, though he has been and is worshipped
(66,000 animals used to be offered to him every year; probably the number is about the same
now). Suggestions have been made to make him the God of China and Confucianism the religion
of China, so that he and his religion would hold the same relative positions that Christ and
Christianity do in the West. I was present at the lengthy debate which took place on this subject
in the Chinese Parliament in February 1917, but in spite of many long, learned, and eloquent
speeches, chiefly by scholars of the old school, the motion was not carried. Nevertheless,
the worship accorded to Confucius was and is (except by 'new' or 'young' China) of so extreme
a nature that he may almost be described as the great unapotheosized god of China. [14] Some
of his portraits even ascribe to him superhuman attributes. But in spite of all this the fact
remains that Confucius has not been appointed a god and holds no exequatur entitling him to
that rank.

If we inquire into the reason of this we find that, astonishing though it may seem, Confucius
is classed by the Chinese not as a god (shên), but as a demon (kuei). A short historical statement
will make the matter clear.

In the classical Li chi, Book of Ceremonial, we find the categorical assignment of the worship
of certain objects to certain subjective beings: the emperor worshipped Heaven and earth, the
feudal princes the mountains and rivers, the officials the hearth, and the literati their ancestors.
Heaven, earth, mountains, rivers, and hearth were called shên (gods), and ancestors kuei (demons).
This distinction is due to Heaven being regarded as the god and the people as demons--the upper
is the god, the lower the evil spirit or demon. Though kuei were usually bad, the term in Chinese
includes both good and evil spirits. In ancient times those who had by their meritorious virtue
while in the world averted calamities from the people were posthumously worshipped and called
gods, but those who were worshipped by their descendants only were called spirits or demons.

In the worship of Confucius by emperors of various dynasties (details of which need not be
given here) the highest titles conferred on him were Hsien Shêng, 'Former or Ancestral Saint,'
and even Win Hsüan Wang, 'Accomplished and Illustrious Prince,' and others containing like
epithets. When for his image or idol there was (in the eleventh year--A.D. 1307--of the reign-period
Ta Tê of the Emperor Ch'êng Tsung of the Yüan dynasty) substituted the tablet now seen in the
Confucian temples, these were the inscriptions engraved on it. In the inscriptions authoritatively
placed on the tablets the word shên does not occur; in those cases where it does occur it has
been placed there (as by the Taoists) illegally and without authority by too ardent devotees.
Confucius may not be called a shên, since there is no record showing that the great ethical
teacher was ever apotheosized, or that any order was given that the character shên was to be
applied to him.

The God of Literature

In addition to the ancestors of whose worship it really consists, Confucianism has in its pantheon
the specialized gods worshipped by the literati. Naturally the chief of these is Wên Ch'ang,
the God of Literature. The account of him (which varies in several particulars in different
Chinese works) relates that he was a man of the name of Chang Ya, who was born during the T'ang
dynasty in the kingdom of Yüeh (modern Chêkiang), and went to live at Tzu T'ung in Ssuch'uan,
where his intelligence raised him to the position of President of the Board of Ceremonies.
Another account refers to him as Chang Ya Tzu, the Soul or Spirit of Tzu T'ung, and states
that he held office in the Chin dynasty (A.D. 265-316), and was killed in a fight. Another
again states that under the Sung dynasty (A.D. 960-1280), in the third year (A.D. 1000) of
the reign-period Hsien P'ing of the Emperor Chên Tsung, he repressed the revolt of Wang Chün
at Ch'êng Tu in Ssuch'uan. General Lei Yu-chung caused to be shot into the besieged town arrows
to which notices were attached inviting the inhabitants to surrender. Suddenly a man mounted
a ladder, and pointing to the rebels cried in a loud voice: "The Spirit of Tzu T'ung has sent
me to inform you that the town will fall into the hands of the enemy on the twentieth day of
the ninth moon, and not a single person will escape death." Attempts to strike down this prophet
of evil were in vain, for he had already disappeared. The town was captured on the day indicated.
The general, as a reward, caused the temple of Tzu T'ung's Spirit to be repaired, and sacrifices
offered to it.

The object of worship nowadays in the temples dedicated to Wên Ch'ang is Tzu T'ung Ti Chün,
the God of Tzu T'ung. The convenient elasticity of dualism enabled Chang to have as many as
seventeen reincarnations, which ranged over a period of some three thousand years.

Various emperors at various times bestowed upon Wên Ch'ang honorific titles, until ultimately,
in the Yüan, or Mongol, dynasty, in the reign Yen Yu, in A.D. 1314, the title was conferred
on him of Supporter of the Yüan Dynasty, Diffuser of Renovating Influences, Ssu-lu of Wên Ch'ang,
God and Lord. He was thus apotheosized, and took his place among the gods of China. By steps
few or many a man in China has often become a god.

Wên Ch'ang and the Great Bear

Thus we have the God of Literature, Wên Ch'ang Ti Chün, duly installed in the Chinese pantheon,
and sacrifices were offered to him in the schools.

But scholars, especially those about to enter for the public competitive examinations, worshipped
as the God of Literature, or as his palace or abode (Wên Ch'ang), the star K'uei in the Great
Bear, or Dipper, or Bushel--the latter name derived from its resemblance in shape to the measure
used by the Chinese and called tou. The term K'uei was more generally applied to the four stars
forming the body or square part of the Dipper, the three forming the tail or handle being called
Shao or Piao. How all this came about is another story.

A scholar, as famous for his literary skill as his facial deformities, had been admitted as
first academician at the metropolitan examinations. It was the custom that the Emperor should
give with his own hand a rose of gold to the fortunate candidate. This scholar, whose name
was Chung K'uei, presented himself according to custom to receive the reward which by right
was due to him. At the sight of his repulsive face the Emperor refused the golden rose. In
despair the miserable rejected one went and threw himself into the sea. At the moment when
he was being choked by the waters a mysterious fish or monster called ao raised him on its
back and brought him to the surface. K'uei ascended to Heaven and became arbiter of the destinies
of men of letters. His abode was said to be the star K'uei, a name given by the Chinese to
the sixteen stars of the constellation or 'mansion' of Andromeda and Pisces. The scholars quite
soon began to worship K'uei as the God of Literature, and to represent it on a column in the
temples. Then sacrifices were offered to it. This star or constellation was regarded as the
palace of the god. The legend gave rise to an expression frequently used in Chinese of one
who comes out first in an examination, namely, tu chan ao t'ou, "to stand alone on the sea-monster's
head." It is especially to be noted that though the two K'ueis have the same sound they are
represented by different characters, and that the two constellations are not the same, but
are situated in widely different parts of the heavens.

How then did it come about that scholars worshipped the K'uei in the Great Bear as the abode
of the God of Literature? (It may be remarked in passing that a literary people could not have
chosen a more appropriate palace for this god, since the Great Bear, the 'Chariot of Heaven,'
is regarded as the centre and governor of the whole universe.) The worship, we saw, was at
first that of the star K'uei, the apotheosized 'homely,' successful, but rejected candidate.
As time went on, there was a general demand for a sensible, concrete representation of this
star-god: a simple character did not satisfy the popular taste. But it was no easy matter to
comply with the demand. Eventually, guided doubtless by the community of pronunciation, they
substituted for the star or group of stars K'uei (1), venerated in ancient times, a new star
or group of stars K'uei (2), forming the square part of the Bushel, Dipper, or Great Bear.
But for this again no bodily image could be found, so the form of the written character itself
was taken, and so drawn as to represent a kuei (3) (disembodied spirit, or ghost) with its
foot raised, and bearing aloft a tou (4) (bushel-measure). The adoration was thus misplaced,
for the constellation K'uei (2) was mistaken for K'uei (1), the proper object of worship. It
was due to this confusion by the scholars that the Northern Bushel came to be worshipped as
the God of Literature.

Wên Ch'ang and Tzu T'ung

This worship had nothing whatever to do with the Spirit of Tzu T'ung, but the Taoists have
connected Chang Ya with the constellation in another way by saying that Shang Ti, the Supreme
Ruler, entrusted Chang Ya's son with the management of the palace of Wên Ch'ang. And scholars
gradually acquired the habit of saying that they owed their success to the Spirit of Tzu T'ung,
which they falsely represented as being an incarnation of the star Wên Ch'ang. This is how
Chang Ya came to have the honorific title of Wên Ch'ang, but, as a Chinese author points out,
Chang belonged properly to Ssuch'uan, and his worship should be confined to that province.
The literati there venerated him as their master, and as a mark of affection and gratitude
built a temple to him; but in doing so they had no intention of making him the God of Literature.
"There being no real connexion between Chang Ya and K'uei, the worship should be stopped."
The device of combining the personality of the patron of literature enthroned among the stars
with that of the deified mortal canonized as the Spirit of Tzu T'ung was essentially a Taoist
trick. "The thaumaturgic reputation assigned to the Spirit of Chang Ya Tzu was confined for
centuries to the valleys of Ssuch'uan, until at some period antecedent to the reign Yen Yu,
in A.D. 1314, a combination was arranged between the functions of the local god and those of
the stellar patron of literature. Imperial sanction was obtained for this stroke of priestly
cunning; and notwithstanding protests continually repeated by orthodox sticklers for accuracy
in the religious canon, the composite deity has maintained his claims intact, and an inseparable
connexion between the God of Literature created by imperial patent and the spirit lodged among
the stars of Ursa Major is fully recognized in the State ceremonial of the present day." A
temple dedicated to this divinity by the State exists in every city of China, besides others
erected as private benefactions or speculations.

Wherever Wên Ch'ang is worshipped there will also be found a separate representation of K'uei
Hsing, showing that while the official deity has been allowed to 'borrow glory' from the popular
god, and even to assume his personality, the independent existence of the stellar spirit is
nevertheless sedulously maintained. The place of the latter in the heavens above is invariably
symbolized by the lodgment of his idol in an upper storey or tower, known as the K'uei Hsing
Ko or K'uei Hsing Lou. Here students worship the patron of their profession with incense and
prayers. Thus the ancient stellar divinity still largely monopolizes the popular idea of a
guardian of literature and study, notwithstanding that the deified recluse of Tzu T'ung has
been added in this capacity to the State pantheon for more than five hundred years.

Heaven-deaf and Earth-dumb

The popular representations of Wên Ch'ang depict the god himself and four other figures. The
central and largest is the demure portrait of the god, clothed in blue and holding a sceptre
in his left hand. Behind him stand two youthful attendants. They are the servant and groom
who always accompany him on his journeys (on which he rides a white horse). Their names are
respectively Hsüan T'ung-tzu and Ti-mu, 'Sombre Youth' and 'Earth-mother'; more commonly they
are called T'ien-lung, 'Deaf Celestial,' and Ti-ya, 'Mute Terrestrial,' or 'Deaf as Heaven'
and 'Mute as Earth.' Thus they cannot divulge the secrets of their master's administration
as he distributes intellectual gifts, literary skill, etc. Their cosmogonical connexion has
already been referred to in a previous chapter.

Image of K'uei Hsing

In front of Wên Ch'ang, on his left, stands K'uei Hsing. He is represented as of diminutive
stature, with the visage of a demon, holding a writing-brush in his right hand and a tou in
his left, one of his legs kicking up behind--the figure being obviously intended as an impersonation
of the character k'uei (2). [16] He is regarded as the distributor of literary degrees, and
was invoked above all in order to obtain success at the competitive examinations. His images
and temples are found in all towns. In the temples dedicated to Wên Ch'ang there are always
two secondary altars, one of which is consecrated to his worship.

Mr Redcoat

The other is dedicated to Chu I, 'Mr Redcoat.' He and K'uei Hsing are represented as the two
inseparable companions of the God of Literature. The legend related of Chu I is as follows:

During the T'ang dynasty, in the reign-period Chien Chung (A.D. 780-4) of the Emperor Tê Tsung,
the Princess T'ai Yin noticed that Lu Ch'i, a native of Hua Chou, had the bones of an Immortal,
and wished to marry him.

Ma P'o, her neighbour, introduced him one day into the Crystal Palace for an interview with
his future wife. The Princess gave him the choice of three careers: to live in the Dragon Prince's
Palace, with the guarantee of immortal life, to enjoy immortality among the people on the earth,
or to have the honour of becoming a minister of the Empire. Lu Ch'i first answered that he
would like to live in the Crystal Palace. The young lady, overjoyed, said to him: "I am Princess
T'ai Yin. I will at once inform Shang Ti, the Supreme Ruler." A moment later the arrival of
a celestial messenger was announced. Two officers bearing flags preceded him and conducted
him to the foot of the flight of steps. He then presented himself as Chu I, the envoy of Shang Ti.

Addressing himself to Lu Ch'i, he asked: "Do you wish to live in the Crystal Palace?" The latter
did not reply. T'ai Yin urged him to give his answer, but he persisted in keeping silent. The
Princess in despair retired to her apartment, and brought out five pieces of precious cloth,
which she presented to the divine envoy, begging him to have patience a little longer and wait
for the answer. After some time, Chu I repeated his question. Then Lu Ch'i in a firm voice
answered: "I have consecrated my life to the hard labour of study, and wish to attain to the
dignity of minister on this earth."

T'ai Yin ordered Ma P'o to conduct Lu Ch'i from the palace. From that day his face became transformed:
he acquired the lips of a dragon, the head of a panther, the green face of an Immortal, etc.
He took his degree, and was promoted to be Director of the Censorate. The Emperor, appreciating
the good sense shown in his advice, appointed him a minister of the Empire.

From this legend it would seem that Chu I is the purveyor of official posts; however, in practice,
he is more generally regarded as the protector of weak candidates, as the God of Good Luck
for those who present themselves at the examinations with a somewhat light equipment of literary
knowledge. The special legend relating to this rôle is known everywhere in China. It is as follows:

Mr Redcoat nods his Head

An examiner, engaged in correcting the essays of the candidates, after a superficial scrutiny
of one of the essays, put it on one side as manifestly inferior, being quite determined not
to pass the candidate who had composed it. The essay, moved by some mysterious power, was replaced
in front of his eyes, as if to invite him to examine it more attentively. At the same time
a reverend old man, clothed in a red garment, suddenly appeared before him, and by a nod of
his head gave him to understand that he should pass the essay. The examiner, surprised at the
novelty of the incident, and fortified by the approval of his supernatural visitor, admitted
the author of the essay to the literary degree.

Chu I, like K'uei Hsing, is invoked by the literati as a powerful protector and aid to success.
When anyone with but a poor chance of passing presents himself at an examination, his friends
encourage him by the popular saying: "Who knows but that Mr Redcoat will nod his head?"

Mr Golden Cuirass

Chu I is sometimes accompanied by another personage, named Chin Chia, 'Mr Golden Cuirass.'
Like K'uei Hsing and Chu I he has charge of the interests of scholars, but differs from them
in that he holds a flag, which he has only to wave in front of a house for the family inhabiting
it to be assured that among their descendants will be some who will win literary honours and
be promoted to high offices under the State.

Though Chin Chia is the protector of scholars, he is also the redoubtable avenger of their
evil actions: his flag is saluted as a good omen, but his sword is the terror of the wicked.

The God of War

Still another patron deity of literature is the God of War. "How," it may be asked, "can so
peaceful a people as the Chinese put so peaceful an occupation as literature under the patronage
of so warlike a deity as the God of War?" But that question betrays ignorance of the character
of the Chinese Kuan Ti. He is not a cruel tyrant delighting in battle and the slaying of enemies:
he is the god who can avert war and protect the people from its horrors.

A youth, whose name was originally Chang-shêng, afterward changed to Shou-chang, and then to
Yün-chang, who was born near Chieh Liang, in Ho Tung (now the town of Chieh Chou in Shansi),
and was of an intractable nature, having exasperated his parents, was shut up in a room from
which he escaped by breaking through the window. In one of the neighbouring houses he heard
a young lady and an old man weeping and lamenting. Running to the foot of the wall of the compound,
he inquired the reason of their grief. The old man replied that though his daughter was already
engaged, the uncle of the local official, smitten by her beauty, wished to make her his concubine.
His petitions to the official had only been rejected with curses.

Beside himself with rage, the youth seized a sword and went and killed both the official and
his uncle. He escaped through the T'ung Kuan, the pass to Shensi. Having with difficulty avoided
capture by the barrier officials, he knelt down at the side of a brook to wash his face; when
lo! his appearance was completely transformed. His complexion had become reddish-grey, and
he was absolutely unrecognizable. He then presented himself with assurance before the officers,
who asked him his name. "My name is Kuan," he replied. It was by that name that he was thereafter
known.

The Meat-seller's Challenge

One day he arrived at Chu-chou, a dependent sub-prefecture of Peking, in Chihli. There Chang
Fei, a butcher, who had been selling his meat all the morning, at noon lowered what remained
into a well, placed over the mouth of the well a stone weighing twenty-five pounds, and said
with a sneer: "If anyone can lift that stone and take my meat, I will make him a present of
it!" Kuan Yü, going up to the edge of the well, lifted the stone with the same ease as he would
a tile, took the meat, and made off. Chang Fei pursued him, and eventually the two came to
blows, but no one dared to separate them. Just then Liu Pei, a hawker of straw shoes, arrived,
interposed, and put a stop to the fight. The community of ideas which they found they possessed
soon gave rise to a firm friendship between the three men.

The Oath in the Peach-orchard

Another account represents Liu Pei and Chang Fei as having entered a village inn to drink wine,
when a man of gigantic stature pushing a wheelbarrow stopped at the door to rest. As he seated
himself, he hailed the waiter, saying: "Bring me some wine quickly, because I have to hasten
to reach the town to enlist in the army."

Liu Pei looked at this man, nine feet in height, with a beard two feet long. His face was the
colour of the fruit of the jujube-tree, and his lips carmine. Eyebrows like sleeping silkworms
shaded his phoenix eyes, which were a scarlet red. Terrible indeed was his bearing.

"What is your name?" asked Liu Pei. "My family name is Kuan, my own name is Yü, my surname
Yün Chang," he replied. "I am from the Ho Tung country. For the last five or six years I have
been wandering about the world as a fugitive, to escape from my pursuers, because I killed
a powerful man of my country who was oppressing the poor people. I hear that they are collecting
a body of troops to crush the brigands, and I should like to join the expedition."

Chang Fêi, also named Chang I Tê, is described as eight feet in height, with round shining
eyes in a panther's head, and a pointed chin bristling with a tiger's beard. His voice resembled
the rumbling of thunder. His ardour was like that of a fiery steed. He was a native of Cho
Chün, where he possessed some fertile farms, and was a butcher and wine-merchant.

Liu Pei, surnamed Hsüan Tê, otherwise Hsien Chu, was the third member of the group.

The three men went to Chang Fei's farm, and on the morrow met together in his peach-orchard,
and sealed their friendship with an oath. Having procured a black ox and a white horse, with
the various accessories to a sacrifice, they immolated the victims, burnt the incense of friendship,
and after twice prostrating themselves took this oath:

"We three, Liu Pei, Kuan Yû, and Chang Fei, already united by mutual friendship, although belonging
to different clans, now bind ourselves by the union of our hearts, and join our forces in order
to help each other in times of danger.

"We wish to pay to the State our debt of loyal citizens and give peace to our black-haired
compatriots. We do not inquire if we were born in the same year, the same month, or on the
same day, but we desire only that the same year, the same month, and the same day may find
us united in death. May Heaven our King and Earth our Queen see clearly our hearts! If any
one of us violate justice or forget benefits, may Heaven and Man unite to punish him!"

The oath having been formally taken, Liu Pei was saluted as elder brother, Kuan Yü as the second,
and Chang Fei as the youngest. Their sacrifice to Heaven and earth ended, they killed an ox
and served a feast, to which the soldiers of the district were invited to the number of three
hundred or more. They all drank copiously until they were intoxicated. Liu Pei enrolled the
peasants; Chang Fei procured for them horses and arms; and then they set out to make war on
the Yellow Turbans (Huang Chin Tsei). Kuan Yü proved himself worthy of the affection which
Liu Pei showed him; brave and generous, he never turned aside from danger. His fidelity was
shown especially on one occasion when, having been taken prisoner by Ts'ao Ts'ao, together
with two of Liu Pei's wives, and having been allotted a common sleeping-apartment with his
fellow-captives, he preserved the ladies' reputation and his own trustworthiness by standing
all night at the door of the room with a lighted lantern in his hand.

Into details of the various exploits of the three Brothers of the Peach-orchard we need not
enter here. They are written in full in the book of the Story of the Three Kingdoms, a romance
in which every Chinese who can read takes keen delight. Kuan Yü remained faithful to his oath,
even though tempted with a marquisate by the great Ts'ao Ts'ao, but he was at length captured
by Sun Ch'üan and put to death (A.D. 219). Long celebrated as the most renowned of China's
military heroes, he was ennobled in A.D. 1120 as Faithful and Loyal Duke. Eight years later
he had conferred on him by letters patent the still more glorious title of Magnificent Prince
and Pacificator. The Emperor Wên (A.D. 1330-3) of the Yüan dynasty added the appellation Warrior
Prince and Civilizer, and, finally, the Emperor Wan Li of the Ming dynasty, in 1594, conferred
on him the title of Faithful and Loyal Great Ti, Supporter of Heaven and Protector of the Kingdom.
He thus became a god, a ti, and has ever since received worship as Kuan Ti or Wu Ti, the God
of War. Temples (1600 State temples and thousands of smaller ones) erected in his honour are
to be seen in all parts of the country. He is one of the most popular gods of China. During
the last half-century of the Manchu Period his fame greatly increased. In 1856 he is said to
have appeared in the heavens and successfully turned the tide of battle in favour of the Imperialists.
His portrait hangs in every tent, but his worship is not confined to the officials and the
army, for many trades and professions have elected him as a patron saint. The sword of the
public executioner used to be kept within the precincts of his temple, and after an execution
the presiding magistrate would stop there to worship for fear the ghost of the criminal might
follow him home. He knew that the spirit would not dare to enter Kuan Ti's presence.

Thus the Chinese have no fewer than three gods of literature--perhaps not too many for so literary
a people. A fourth, a Taoist god, will be mentioned later.

Buddhism in China

Buddhism and its mythology have formed an important part of Chinese thought for nearly two
thousand years. The religion was brought to China about A.D. 65, ready-made in its Mahayanistic
form, in consequence of a dream of the Emperor Ming Ti (A.D. 58-76) of the Eastern Han dynasty
in or about the year 63; though some knowledge of Buddha and his doctrines existed as early
as 217 B.C. As Buddha, the chief deity of Buddhism, was a man and became a god, the religion
originated, like the others, in ancestor-worship. When a man dies, says this religion, his
other self reappears in one form or another, "from a clod to a divinity." The way for Buddhism
in China was paved by Taoism, and Buddhism reciprocally affected Taoism by helpful development
of its doctrines of sanctity and immortalization. Buddhism also, as it has been well put by
Dr De Groot, [17] "contributed much to the ceremonial adornment of ancestor-worship. Its salvation
work on behalf of the dead saved its place in Confucian China; for of Confucianism itself,
piety and devotion towards parents and ancestors, and the promotion of their happiness, were
the core, and, consequently, their worship with sacrifices and ceremonies was always a sacred
duty." It was thus that it was possible for the gods of Buddhism to be introduced into China
and to maintain their special characters and fulfil their special functions without being absorbed
into or submerged by the existing native religions. The result was, as we have seen, in the
end a partnership rather than a relation of master and servant; and I say 'in the end' because,
contrary to popular belief, the Chinese have not been tolerant of foreign religious faiths,
and at various times have persecuted Buddhism as relentlessly as they have other rivals to
orthodox Confucianism.

Buddha, the Law, and the Priesthood

At the head of the Buddhist gods in China we find the triad known as Buddha, the Law, and the
Church, or Priesthood, which are personified as Shih-chia Fo (Shâkya), O-mi-t'o Fo (Amita),
and Ju-lai Fo (Tathagata); otherwise Fo Pao, Fa Pao, and Sêng Pao (the San Pao, 'Three Precious
Ones')--that is, Buddha, the prophet who came into the world to teach the Law, Dharma, the
Law Everlasting, and Samgha, its mystical body, Priesthood, or Church. Dharma is an entity
underived, containing the spiritual elements and material constituents of the universe. From
it the other two evolve: Buddha (Shâkyamuni), the creative energy, Samgha, the totality of
existence and of life. To the people these are three personal Buddhas, whom they worship without
concerning themselves about their origin. To the priests they are simply the Buddha, past,
present, or future. There are also several other of these groups or triads, ten or more, composed
of different deities, or sometimes containing one or two of the triad already named. Shâkyamuni
heads the list, having a place in at least six.

The legend of the Buddha belongs rather to Indian than to Chinese mythology, and is too long
to be reproduced here. [18]

The principal gods of Buddhism are Jan-têng Fo, the Light-lamp Buddha, Mi-lo Fo (Maitrêya),
the expected Messiah of the Buddhists, O-mi-t'o Fo (Amitabha or Amita), the guide who conducts
his devotees to the Western Paradise, Yüeh-shih Fo, the Master-physician Buddha, Ta-shih-chih
P'u-sa (Mahastama), companion of Amitabha, P'i-lu Fo (Vairotchana), the highest of the Threefold
Embodiments, Kuan Yin, the Goddess of Mercy, Ti-tsang Wang, the God of Hades, Wei-t'o (Vihârapâla),
the Dêva protector of the Law of Buddha and Buddhist temples, the Four Diamond Kings of Heaven,
and Bodhidharma, the first of the six Patriarchs of Eastern or Chinese Buddhism.

Diamond Kings of Heaven

On the right and left sides of the entrance hall of Buddhist temples, two on each side, are
the gigantic figures of the four great Ssu Ta Chin-kang or T'ien-wang, the Diamond Kings of
Heaven, protectors or governors of the continents lying in the direction of the four cardinal
points from Mount Sumêru, the centre of the world. They are four brothers named respectively
Mo-li Ch'ing (Pure), or Tsêng Chang, Mo-li Hung (Vast), or Kuang Mu, Mo-li Hai (Sea), or To
Wên, and Mo-li Shou (Age), or Ch'ih Kuo. The Chin kuang ming states that they bestow all kinds
of happiness on those who honour the Three Treasures, Buddha, the Law, and the Priesthood.
Kings and nations who neglect the Law lose their protection. They are described and represented
as follows:

Mo-li Ch'ing, the eldest, is twenty-four feet in height, with a beard the hairs of which are
like copper wire. He carries a magnificent jade ring and a spear, and always fights on foot.
He has also a magic sword, 'Blue Cloud,' on the blade of which are engraved the characters
Ti, Shui, Huo, Fêng (Earth, Water, Fire, Wind). When brandished, it causes a black wind, which
produces tens of thousands of spears, which pierce the bodies of men and turn them to dust.
The wind is followed by a fire, which fills the air with tens of thousands of golden fiery
serpents. A thick smoke also rises out of the ground, which blinds and burns men, none being
able to escape.

Mo-li Hung carries in his hand an umbrella, called the Umbrella of Chaos, formed of pearls
possessed of spiritual properties. Opening this marvellous implement causes the heavens and
earth to be covered with thick darkness, and turning it upside down produces violent storms
of wind and thunder and universal earthquakes.

Mo-li Hai holds a four-stringed guitar, the twanging of which supernaturally affects the earth,
water, fire, or wind. When it is played all the world listens, and the camps of the enemy take
fire.

Mo-li Shou has two whips and a panther-skin bag, the home of a creature resembling a white
rat, known as Hua-hu Tiao. When at large this creature assumes the form of a white winged elephant,
which devours men. He sometimes has also a snake or other man-eating creature, always ready
to obey his behests.

Legend of the Diamond Kings

The legend of the Four Diamond Kings given in the Fêng shên yen i is as follows: At the time
of the consolidation of the Chou dynasty in the twelfth and eleventh centuries B.C., Chiang
Tzu-ya, chief counsellor to Wên Wang, and General Huang Fei-hu were defending the town and
mountain of Hsi-ch'i. The supporters of the house of Shang appealed to the four genii Mo, who
lived at Chia-mêng Kuan, praying them to come to their aid. They agreed, raised an army of
100,000 celestial soldiers, and traversing towns, fields, and mountains arrived in less than
a day at the north gate of Hsi-ch'i, where Mo-li Ch'ing pitched his camp and entrenched his
soldiers.

Hearing of this, Huang Fei-hu hastened to warn Chiang Tzu-ya of the danger which threatened
him. "The four great generals who have just arrived at the north gate," he said, "are marvellously
powerful genii, experts in all the mysteries of magic and use of wonderful charms. It is much
to be feared that we shall not be able to resist them."

Many fierce battles ensued. At first these went in favour of the Chin-kang, thanks to their
magical weapons and especially to Mo-li Shou's Hua-hu Tiao, who terrorized the enemy by devouring
their bravest warriors.

Hua-hu Tiao devours Yang Chien

Unfortunately for the Chin-kang, the brute attacked and swallowed Yang Chien, the nephew of
Yü Huang. This genie, on entering the body of the monster, rent his heart asunder and cut him
in two. As he could transform himself at will, he assumed the shape of Hua-hu Tiao, and went
off to Mo-li Shou, who unsuspectingly put him back into his bag.

The Four Kings held a festival to celebrate their triumph, and having drunk copiously gave
themselves over to sleep. During the night Yang Chien came out of the bag, with the intention
of possessing himself of the three magical weapons of the Chin-kang. But he succeeded only
in carrying off the umbrella of Mo-li Hung. In a subsequent engagement No-cha, the son of Vadjrâ-pani,
the God of Thunder, broke the jade ring of Mo-li Ch'ing. Misfortune followed misfortune. The
Chin-kang, deprived of their magical weapons, began to lose heart. To complete their discomfiture,
Huang T'ien Hua brought to the attack a matchless magical weapon. This was a spike 7 1/2 inches
long, enclosed in a silk sheath, and called 'Heart-piercer.' It projected so strong a ray of
light that eyes were blinded by it.

Huang T'ien Hua, hard pressed by Mo-li Ch'ing, drew the mysterious spike from its sheath, and
hurled it at his adversary. It entered his neck, and with a deep groan the giant fell dead.

Mo-li Hung and Mo-li Hai hastened to avenge their brother, but ere they could come within striking
distance of Huang Ti'en Hua his redoubtable spike reached their hearts, and they lay prone
at his feet.

The one remaining hope for the sole survivor was in Hua-hu Tiao. Mo-li Shou, not knowing that
the creature had been slain, put his hand into the bag to pull him out, whereupon Yang Chien,
who had re-entered the bag, bit his hand off at the wrist, so that there remained nothing but
a stump of bone.

In this moment of intense agony Mo-li Shou fell an easy prey to Huang T'ien Hua, the magical
spike pierced his heart, and he fell bathed in his blood. Thus perished the last of the Chin-kang.

The Three Pure Ones

Turning to the gods of Taoism, we find that the triad or trinity, already noted as forming
the head of that hierarchy, consists of three Supreme Gods, each in his own Heaven. These three
Heavens, the San Ch'ing, 'Three Pure Ones' (this name being also applied to the sovereigns
ruling in them), were formed from the three airs, which are subdivisions of the one primordial air.

The first Heaven is Yü Ch'ing. In it reigns the first member of the Taoist triad. He inhabits
the Jade Mountain. The entrance to his palace is named the Golden Door. He is the source of
all truth, as the sun is the source of all light.

Various authorities give his name differently--Yüan-shih T'ien-tsun, or Lo Ching Hsin, and
call him T'ien Pao, 'the Treasure of Heaven,' Some state that the name of the ruler of this
first Heaven is Yü Huang, and in the popular mind he it is who occupies this supreme position.
The Three Pure Ones are above him in rank, but to him, the Pearly Emperor, is entrusted the
superintendence of the world. He has all the power of Heaven and earth in his hands. He is
the correlative of Heaven, or rather Heaven itself.

The second Heaven, Shang Ch'ing, is ruled by the second person of the triad, named Ling-pao
T'ien-tsun, or Tao Chün. No information is given as to his origin. He is the custodian of the
sacred books. He has existed from the beginning of the world. He calculates time, dividing
it into different epochs. He occupies the upper pole of the world, and determines the movements
and interaction, or regulates the relations of the yin and the yang, the two great principles
of nature.

In the third Heaven, T'ai Ch'ing, the Taoists place Lao Tzu, the promulgator of the true doctrine
drawn up by Ling-pao T'ien-tsun. He is alternatively called Shên Pao, 'the Treasure of the
Spirits,' and T'ai-shang Lao-chûn, 'the Most Eminent Aged Ruler.' Under various assumed names
he has appeared as the teacher of kings and emperors, the reformer of successive generations.

This three-storied Taoist Heaven, or three Heavens, is the result of the wish of the Taoists
not to be out-rivalled by the Buddhists. For Buddha, the Law, and the Priesthood they substitute
the Tao, or Reason, the Classics, and the Priesthood.

As regards the organization of the Taoist Heavens, Yü Huang has on his register the name of
eight hundred Taoist divinities and a multitude of Immortals. These are all divided into three
categories: Saints (Shêng-jên), Heroes (Chên-jên), and Immortals (Hsien-jên), occupying the
three Heavens respectively in that order.

The Three Causes

Connected with Taoism, but not exclusively associated with that religion, is the worship of
the Three Causes, the deities presiding over three departments of physical nature, Heaven,
earth, and water. They are known by various designations: San Kuan, 'the Three Agents'; San
Yüan, 'the Three Origins'; San Kuan Ta Ti, 'the Three Great Emperor Agents'; and T'ai Shang
San Kuan, 'the Three Supreme Agents.' This worship has passed through four chief phases, as
follows:

The first comprises Heaven, earth, and water, T'ien, Ti, Shui, the sources of happiness, forgiveness
of sins, and deliverance from evil respectively. Each of these is called King-emperor. Their
names, written on labels and offered to Heaven (on a mountain), earth (by burial), and water
(by immersion), are supposed to cure sickness. This idea dates from the Han dynasty, being
first noted about A.D. 172.

The second, San Yüan dating from A.D. 407 under the Wei dynasty, identified the Three Agents
with three dates of which they were respectively made the patrons. The year was divided into
three unequal parts: the first to the seventh moon; the seventh to the tenth; and the tenth
to the twelfth. Of these, the fifteenth day of the first, seventh, and tenth moons respectively
became the three principal dates of these periods. Thus the Agent of Heaven became the principal
patron of the first division, honoured on the fifteenth day of the first moon, and so on.

The third phase, San Kuan, resulted from the first two being found too complicated for popular
favour. The San Kuan were the three sons of a man, Ch'ên Tzu-ch'un, who was so handsome and
intelligent that the three daughters of Lung Wang, the Dragon-king, fell in love with him and
went to live with him. The eldest girl was the mother of the Superior Cause, the second of
the Medium Cause, and the third of the Inferior Cause. All these were gifted with supernatural
powers. Yüan-shih T'ien-tsun canonized them as the Three Great Emperor Agents of Heaven, earth,
and water, governors of all beings, devils or gods, in the three regions of the universe. As
in the first phase, the T'ien Kuan confers happiness, the Ti Kuan grants remission of sins,
and the Shui Kuan delivers from evil or misfortune.

The fourth phase consisted simply in the substitution by the priests for the abstract or time-principles
of the three great sovereigns of ancient times, Yao, Shun, and Yü. The literati, proud of the
apotheosis of their ancient rulers, hastened to offer incense to them, and temples, San Yüan
Kung, arose in very many parts of the Empire.

A variation of this phase is the canonization, with the title of San Yüan or Three Causes,
of Wu-k'o San Chên Chün, 'the Three True Sovereigns, Guests of the Kingdom of Wu.' They were
three Censors who lived in the reign of King Li (Li Wang, 878-841 B.C.) of the Chou dynasty.
Leaving the service of the Chou on account of Li's dissolute living, they went to live in Wu,
and brought victory to that state in its war with the Ch'u State, then returned to their own
country, and became pillars of the Chou State under Li's successor. They appeared to protect
the Emperor Chên Tsung when he was offering the Fêng-shan sacrifices on T'ai Shan in A.D. 1008,
on which occasion they were canonized with the titles of Superior, Medium, and Inferior Causes,
as before, conferring upon them the regencies of Heaven, earth, and water respectively.

Yüan-shih T'ien-tsun

Yüan-shih T'ien-tsun, or the First Cause, the Highest in Heaven, generally placed at the head
of the Taoist triad, is said never to have existed but in the fertile imagination of the Lao
Tzuist sectarians. According to them Yüan-shih T'ien-tsun had neither origin nor master, but
is himself the cause of all beings, which is why he is called the First Cause.

As first member of the triad, and sovereign ruler of the First Heaven, Yü Ch'ing, where reign
the saints, he is raised in rank above all the other gods. The name assigned to him is Lo Ching
Hsin. He was born before all beginnings; his substance is imperishable; it is formed essentially
of uncreated air, air a se, invisible and without perceptible limits. No one has been able
to penetrate to the beginnings of his existence. The source of all truth, he at each renovation
of the worlds--that is, at each new kalpa--gives out the mysterious doctrine which confers
immortality. All who reach this knowledge attain by degrees to life eternal, become refined
like the spirits, or instantly become Immortals, even while upon earth.

Originally, Yüan-shih T'ien-tsun was not a member of the Taoist triad. He resided above the
Three Heavens, above the Three Pure Ones, surviving the destructions and renovations of the
universe, as an immovable rock in the midst of a stormy sea. He set the stars in motion, and
caused the planets to revolve. The chief of his secret police was Tsao Chün, the Kitchen-god,
who rendered to him an account of the good and evil deeds of each family. His executive agent
was Lei Tsu, the God of Thunder, and his subordinates. The seven stars of the North Pole were
the palace of his ministers, whose offices were on the various sacred mountains. Nowadays,
however, Yüan-shih T'ien-tsun is generally neglected for Yü Huang.

An Avatar of P'an Ku

According to the tradition of Chin Hung, the God of T'ai Shan of the fifth generation from
P'an Ku, this being, then called Yüan-shih T'ien-wang, was an avatar of P'an Ku. It came about
in this wise. In remote ages there lived on the mountains an old man, Yüan-shih T'ien-wang,
who used to sit on a rock and preach to the multitude. He spoke of the highest antiquity as
if from personal experience. When Chin Hung asked him where he lived, he just raised his hand
toward Heaven, iridescent clouds enveloped his body, and he replied: "Whoso wishes to know
where I dwell must rise to impenetrable heights." "But how," said Chin Hung, "was he to be
found in this immense emptiness?" Two genii, Ch'ih Ching-tzu and Huang Lao, then descended
on the summit of T'ai Shan and said: "Let us go and visit this Yüan-shih. To do so, we must
cross the boundaries of the universe and pass beyond the farthest stars." Chin Hung begged
them to give him their instructions, to which he listened attentively. They then ascended the
highest of the sacred peaks, and thence mounted into the heavens, calling to him from the misty
heights: "If you wish to know the origin of Yüan-shih, you must pass beyond the confines of
Heaven and earth, because he lives beyond the limits of the worlds. You must ascend and ascend
until you reach the sphere of nothingness and of being, in the plains of the luminous shadows."

Having reached these ethereal heights, the two genii saw a bright light, and Hsüan-hsüan Shang-jên
appeared before them. The two genii bowed to do him homage and to express their gratitude.
"You cannot better show your gratitude," he replied, "than by making my doctrine known among
men. You desire," he added, "to know the history of Yüan-shih. I will tell it you. When P'an
Ku had completed his work in the primitive Chaos, his spirit left its mortal envelope and found
itself tossed about in empty space without any fixed support. 'I must,' it said, 'get reborn
in visible form; until I can go through a new birth I shall remain empty and unsettled,' His
soul, carried on the wings of the wind, reached Fu-yü T'ai. There it saw a saintly lady named
T'ai Yüan, forty years of age, still a virgin, and living alone on Mount Ts'u-o. Air and variegated
clouds were the sole nourishment of her vital spirits. An hermaphrodite, at once both the active
and the passive principle, she daily scaled the highest peak of the mountain to gather there
the flowery quintessence of the sun and the moon. P'an Ku, captivated by her virgin purity,
took advantage of a moment when she was breathing to enter her mouth in the form of a ray of
light. She was enceinte for twelve years, at the end of which period the fruit of her womb
came out through her spinal column. From its first moment the child could walk and speak, and
its body was surrounded by a five-coloured cloud. The newly-born took the name of Yüan-shih
T'ien-wang, and his mother was generally known as T'ai-yüan Shêng-mu, 'the Holy Mother of the
First Cause.'"

Yü Huang

Yü Huang means 'the Jade Emperor,' or 'the Pure August One,' jade symbolizing purity. He is
also known by the name Yü-huang Shang-ti, 'the Pure August Emperor on High.'

The history of this deity, who later received many honorific titles and became the most popular
god, a very Chinese Jupiter, seems to be somewhat as follows: The Emperor Ch'êng Tsung of the
Sung dynasty having been obliged in A.D. 1005 to sign a disgraceful peace with the Tunguses
or Kitans, the dynasty was in danger of losing the support of the nation. In order to hoodwink
the people the Emperor constituted himself a seer, and announced with great pomp that he was
in direct communication with the gods of Heaven. In doing this he was following the advice
of his crafty and unreliable minister Wang Ch'in-jo, who had often tried to persuade him that
the pretended revelations attributed to Fu Hsi, Yü Wang, and others were only pure inventions
to induce obedience. The Emperor, having studied his part well, assembled his ministers in
the tenth moon of the year 1012, and made to them the following declaration: "In a dream I
had a visit from an Immortal, who brought me a letter from Yü Huang, the purport of which was
as follows: 'I have already sent you by your ancestor Chao [T'ai Tsu] two celestial missives.
Now I am going to send him in person to visit you.'" A little while after his ancestor T'ai
Tsu, the founder of the dynasty, came according to Yü Huang's promise, and Ch'êng Tsung hastened
to inform his ministers of it. This is the origin of Yü Huang. He was born of a fraud, and
came ready-made from the brain of an emperor.

The Cask of Pearls

Fearing to be admonished for the fraud by another of his ministers, the scholar Wang Tan, the
Emperor resolved to put a golden gag in his mouth. So one day, having invited him to a banquet,
he overwhelmed him with flattery and made him drunk with good wine. "I would like the members
of your family also to taste this wine," he added, "so I am making you a present of a cask
of it." When Wang Tan returned home, he found the cask filled with precious pearls. Out of
gratitude to the Emperor he kept silent as to the fraud, and made no further opposition to
his plans, but when on his death-bed he asked that his head be shaved like a priest's and that
he be clothed in priestly robes so that he might expiate his crime of feebleness before the
Emperor.

K'ang Hsi, the great Emperor of the Ch'ing dynasty, who had already declared that if it is
wrong to impute deceit to a man it is still more reprehensible to impute a fraud to Heaven,
stigmatized him as follows: "Wang Tan committed two faults: the first was in showing himself
a vile flatterer of his Prince during his life; the second was in becoming a worshipper of
Buddha at his death."

The Legend of Yü Huang

So much for historical record. The legend of Yü Huang relates that in ancient times there existed
a kingdom named Kuang Yen Miao Lo Kuo, whose king was Ching Tê, his queen being called Pao
Yüeh. Though getting on in years, the latter had no son. The Taoist priests were summoned by
edict to the palace to perform their rites. They recited prayers with the object of obtaining
an heir to the throne. During the ensuing night the Queen had a vision. Lao Chün appeared to
her, riding a dragon, and carrying a male child in his arms. He floated down through the air
in her direction. The Queen begged him to give her the child as an heir to the throne. "I am
quite willing," he said. "Here it is." She fell on her knees and thanked him. On waking she
found herself enceinte. At the end of a year the Prince was born. From an early age he showed
himself compassionate and generous to the poor. On the death of his father he ascended the
throne, but after reigning only a few days abdicated in favour of his chief minister, and became
a hermit at P'u-ming, in Shensi, and also on Mount Hsiu Yen, in Yünnan. Having attained to
perfection, he passed the rest of his days in curing sickness and saving life; and it was in
the exercise of these charitable deeds that he died. The emperors Ch'êng Tsung and Hui Tsung,
of the Sung dynasty, loaded him with all the various titles associated with his name at the
present day.

Both Buddhists and Taoists claim him as their own, the former identifying him with Indra, in
which case Yü Huang is a Buddhist deity incorporated into the Taoist pantheon. He has also
been taken to be the subject of a 'nature myth.' The Emperor Ching Tê, his father, is the sun,
the Queen Pao Yüeh the moon, and the marriage symbolizes the rebirth of the vivifying power
which clothes nature with green plants and beautiful flowers.

T'ung-t'ien Chiao-chu

In modern Taoism T'ung-t'ien Chiao-chu is regarded as the first of the Patriarchs and one of
the most powerful genii of the sect. His master was Hung-chün Lao-tsu. He wore a red robe embroidered
with white cranes, and rode a k'uei niu, a monster resembling a buffalo, with one long horn
like a unicorn. His palace, the Pi Yu Kung, was situated on Mount Tzu Chih Yai.

This genie took the part of Chou Wang and helped him to resist Wu Wang's armies. First, he
sent his disciple To-pao Tao-jên to Chieh-p'ai Kuan. He gave him four precious swords and the
plan of a fort which he was to construct and to name Chu-hsien Chên, 'the Citadel of all the
Immortals.'

To-pao Tao-jên carried out his orders, but he had to fight a battle with Kuang Ch'êng-tzu,
and the latter, armed with a celestial seal, struck his adversary so hard that he fell to the
ground and had to take refuge in flight.

T'ung-t'ien Chiao-chu came to the defence of his disciple and to restore the morale of his
forces. Unfortunately, a posse of gods arrived to aid Wu Wang's powerful general, Chiang Tzu-ya.
The first who attacked T'ung-t'ien Chiao-chu was Lao Tzu, who struck him several times with
his stick. Then came Chun T'i, armed with his cane. The buffalo of T'ung-t'ien Chiao-chu stamped
him under foot, and Chun T'i was thrown to the earth, and only just had time to rise quickly
and mount into the air amid a great cloud of dust.

There could be no doubt that the fight was going against T'ung-t'ien Chiao-chu; to complete
his discomfiture Jan-têng Tao-jên cleft the air and fell upon him unexpectedly. With a violent
blow of his 'Fix-sea' staff he cast him down and compelled him to give up the struggle.

T'ung-t'ien Chiao-chu then prepared plans for a new fortified camp beyond T'ung Kuan, and tried
to take the offensive again, but again Lao Tzu stopped him with a blow of his stick. Yüan-shih
T'ien-tsun wounded his shoulder with his precious stone Ju-i, and Chun-t'i Tao-jên waved his
'Branch of the Seven Virtues.' Immediately the magic sword of T'ung-t'ien Chiao-chu was reduced
to splinters, and he saved himself only by flight.

Hung-chün Lao-tsu, the master of these three genii, seeing his three beloved disciples in the
mêlée, resolved to make peace between them. He assembled all three in a tent in Chiang Tzu-ya's
camp, made them kneel before him, then reproached T'ung-t'ien Chiao-chu at length for having
taken the part of the tyrant Chou, and recommended them in future to live in harmony. After
finishing his speech, he produced three pills, and ordered each of the genii to swallow one.
When they had done so, Hung-chün Lao-tsu said to them: "I have given you these pills to ensure
an inviolable truce among you. Know that the first who entertains a thought of discord in his
heart will find that the pill will explode in his stomach and cause his instant death."

Hung-chün Lao-tsu then took T'ung-t'ien Chiao-chu away with him on his cloud to Heaven.

Immortals, Heroes, Saints

An Immortal, according to Taoist lore, is a solitary man of the mountains. He appears to die,
but does not. After 'death' his body retains all the qualities of the living. The body or corpse
is for him only a means of transition, a phase of metamorphosis--a cocoon or chrysalis, the
temporary abode of the butterfly.

To reach this state a hygienic regimen both of the body and mind must be observed. All luxury,
greed, and ambition must be avoided. But negation is not enough. In the system of nourishment
all the elements which strengthen the essence of the constituent yin and yang principles must
be found by means of medicine, chemistry, gymnastic exercises, etc. When the maximum vital
force has been acquired the means of preserving it and keeping it from the attacks of death
and disease must be discovered; in a word, he must spiritualize himself--render himself completely
independent of matter. All the experiments have for their object the storing in the pills of
immortality the elements necessary for the development of the vital force and for the constitution
of a new spiritual and super-humanized being. In this ascending perfection there are several
grades:

(1) The Immortal (Hsien). The first stage consists in bringing about the birth of the superhuman
in the ascetic's person, which reaching perfection leaves the earthly body, like the grasshopper
its sheath. This first stage attained, the Immortal travels at will throughout the universe,
enjoys all the advantages of perfect health without dreading disease or death, eats and drinks
copiously--nothing is wanting to complete his happiness.

(2) The Perfect Man, or Hero (Chên-jên). The second stage is a higher one. The whole body is
spiritualized. It has become so subtile, so spiritual, that it can fly in the air. Borne on
the wings of the wind, seated on the clouds of Heaven, it travels from one world to another
and fixes its habitation in the stars. It is freed from all laws of matter, but is, however,
not completely changed into pure spirit.

(3) The Saint (Shêng-jên). The third stage is that of the superhuman beings or saints. They
are those who have attained to extraordinary intelligence and virtue.

The God of the Immortals

Mu Kung or Tung Wang Kung, the God of the Immortals, was also called I Chün Ming and Yü Huang
Chün, the Prince Yü Huang.

The primitive vapour congealed, remained inactive for a time, and then produced living beings,
beginning with the formation of Mu Kung, the purest substance of the Eastern Air, and sovereign
of the active male principle yang and of all the countries of the East. His palace is in the
misty heavens, violet clouds form its dome, blue clouds its walls. Hsien T'ung, 'the Immortal
Youth,' and Yü Nü, 'the Jade Maiden,' are his servants. He keeps the register of all the Immortals,
male and female.

Hsi Wang Mu

Hsi Wang Mu was formed of the pure quintessence of the Western Air, in the legendary continent
of Shên Chou. She is often called the Golden Mother of the Tortoise.

Her family name is variously given as Hou, Yang, and Ho. Her own name was Hui, and first name
Wan-chin. She had nine sons and twenty-four daughters.

As Mu Kung, formed of the Eastern Air, is the active principle of the male air and sovereign
of the Eastern Air, so Hsi Wang Mu, born of the Western Air, is the passive or female principle
(yin) and sovereign of the Western Air. These two principles, co-operating, engender Heaven
and earth and all the beings of the universe, and thus become the two principles of life and
of the subsistence of all that exists. She is the head of the troop of genii dwelling on the
K'un-lun Mountains (the Taoist equivalent of the Buddhist Sumêru), and from time to time holds
intercourse with favoured imperial votaries.

The Feast of Peaches

Hsi Wang Mu's palace is situated in the high mountains of the snowy K'un-lun. It is 1000 li
(about 333 miles) in circuit; a rampart of massive gold surrounds its battlements of precious
stones. Its right wing rises on the edge of the Kingfishers' River. It is the usual abode of
the Immortals, who are divided into seven special categories according to the colour of their
garments--red, blue, black, violet, yellow, green, and 'nature-colour.' There is a marvellous
fountain built of precious stones, where the periodical banquet of the Immortals is held. This
feast is called P'an-t'ao Hui, 'the Feast of Peaches.' It takes place on the borders of the
Yao Ch'ih, Lake of Gems, and is attended by both male and female Immortals. Besides several
superfine meats, they are served with bears' paws, monkeys' lips, dragons' liver, phoenix marrow,
and peaches gathered in the orchard, endowed with the mystic virtue of conferring longevity
on all who have the good luck to taste them. It was by these peaches that the date of the banquet
was fixed. The tree put forth leaves once every three thousand years, and it required three
thousand years after that for the fruit to ripen. These were Hsi Wang Mu's birthdays, when
all the Immortals assembled for the great feast, "the occasion being more festive than solemn,
for there was music on invisible instruments, and songs not from mortal tongues."

The First Taoist Pope

Chang Tao-ling, the first Taoist pope, was born in A.D. 35, in the reign of the Emperor Kuang
Wu Ti of the Han dynasty. His birthplace is variously given as the T'ien-mu Shan, 'Eye of Heaven
Mountain,' in Lin-an Hsien, in Chekiang, and Fêng-yang Fu, in Anhui. He devoted himself wholly
to study and meditation, declining all offers to enter the service of the State. He preferred
to take up his abode in the mountains of Western China, where he persevered in the study of
alchemy and in cultivating the virtues of purity and mental abstraction. From the hands of
Lao Tzu he received supernaturally a mystic treatise, by following the instructions in which
he was successful in his search for the elixir of life.

One day when he was engaged in experimenting with the 'Dragon-tiger elixir' a spiritual being
appeared to him and said: "On Po-sung Mountain is a stone house in which are concealed the
writings of the Three Emperors of antiquity and a canonical work. By obtaining these you may
ascend to Heaven, if you undergo the course of discipline they prescribe."

Chang Tao-ling found these works, and by means of them obtained the power of flying, of hearing
distant sounds, and of leaving his body. After going through a thousand days of discipline,
and receiving instruction from a goddess, who taught him to walk about among the stars, he
proceeded to fight with the king of the demons, to divide mountains and seas, and to command
the wind and thunder. All the demons fled before him.

The Founder of Modern Taoism

Chang Tao-ling may rightly be considered as the true founder of modern Taoism. The recipes
for the pills of immortality contained in the mysterious books, and the invention of talismans
for the cure of all sorts of maladies, not only exalted him to the high position he has since
occupied in the minds of his numerous disciples, but enabled them in turn to exploit successfully
this new source of power and wealth. From that time the Taoist sect began to specialize in
the art of healing. Protecting or curing talismans bearing the Master's seal were purchased
for enormous sums. It is thus seen that he was after all a deceiver of the people, and unbelievers
or rival partisans of other sects have dubbed him a 'rice-thief'--which perhaps he was.

He is generally represented as clothed in richly decorated garments, brandishing with his right
hand his magic sword, holding in his left a cup containing the draught of immortality, and
riding a tiger which in one paw grasps his magic seal and with the others tramples down the
five venomous creatures: lizard, snake, spider, toad, and centipede. Pictures of him with these
accessories are pasted up in houses on the fifth day of the fifth moon to forfend calamity
and sickness.

The Peach-gathering

It is related of him that, not wishing to ascend to Heaven too soon, he partook of only half
of the pill of immortality, dividing the other half among several of his admirers, and that
he had at least two selves or personalities, one of which used to disport itself in a boat
on a small lake in front of his house. The other self would receive his visitors, entertaining
them with food and drink and instructive conversation. On one occasion this self said to them:
"You are unable to quit the world altogether as I can, but by imitating my example in the matter
of family relations you could procure a medicine which would prolong your lives by several
centuries. I have given the crucible in which Huang Ti prepared the draught of immortality
to my disciple Wang Ch'ang. Later on, a man will come from the East, who also will make use
of it. He will arrive on the seventh day of the first moon."

Exactly on that day there arrived from the East a man named Chao Shêng, who was the person
indicated by Chang Tao-ling. He was recognized by a manifestation of himself he had caused
to appear in advance of his coming. Chang then led all his disciples, to the number of three
hundred, to the highest peak of the Yün-t'ai. Below them they saw a peach-tree growing near
a pointed rock, stretching out its branches like arms above a fathomless abyss. It was a large
tree, covered with ripe fruit. Chang said to his disciples: "I will communicate a spiritual
formula to the one among you who will dare to gather the fruit of that tree." They all leaned
over to look, but each declared the feat to be impossible. Chao Shêng alone had the courage
to rush out to the point of the rock and up the tree stretching out into space. With firm foot
he stood and gathered the peaches, placing them in the folds of his cloak, as many as it would
hold, but when he wished to climb back up the precipitous slope, his hands slipped on the smooth
rock, and all his attempts were in vain. Accordingly, he threw the peaches, three hundred and
two in all, one by one up to Chang Tao-ling, who distributed them. Each disciple ate one, as
also did Chang, who reserved the remaining one for Chao Shêng, whom he helped to climb up again.
To do this Chang extended his arm to a length of thirty feet, all present marvelling at the
miracle. After Chao had eaten his peach Chang stood on the edge of the precipice, and said
with a laugh: "Chao Shêng was brave enough to climb out to that tree and his foot never tripped.
I too will make the attempt. If I succeed I will have a big peach as a reward." Having spoken
thus, he leapt into space, and alighted in the branches of the peach-tree. Wang Ch'ang and
Chao Shêng also jumped into the tree and stood one on each side of him. There Chang communicated
to them the mysterious formula. Three days later they returned to their homes; then, having
made final arrangements, they repaired once more to the mountain peak, whence, in the presence
of the other disciples, who followed them with their eyes until they had completely disappeared
from view, all three ascended to Heaven in broad daylight.

Chang Tao-ling's Great Power

The name of Chang Tao-ling, the Heavenly Teacher, is a household word in China. He is on earth
the Vicegerent of the Pearly Emperor in Heaven, and the Commander-in-Chief of the hosts of
Taoism. He, the chief of the wizards, the 'true [i.e. ideal] man,' as he is called, wields
an immense spiritual power throughout the land. The present pope boasts of an unbroken line
for three-score generations. His family obtained possession of the Dragon-tiger Mountain in
Kiangsi about A.D. 1000. "This personage," says a pre-Republican writer, "assumes a state which
mimics the imperial. He confers buttons like an emperor. Priests come to him from various cities
and temples to receive promotion, whom he invests with titles and presents with seals of office."

Kings of Heaven

The Four Kings of Heaven, Ssu Ta T'ien-wang, reside on Mount Sumêru (Hsü-mi Shan), the centre
of the universe. It is 3,360,000 li--that is, about a million miles--high. [19] Its eastern
slope is of gold, its western of silver, its south-eastern of crystal, and its north-eastern
of agate. The Four Kings appear to be the Taoist reflection of the four Chin-kang of Buddhism
already noticed. Their names are Li, Ma, Chao, and Wên. They are represented as holding a pagoda,
sword, two swords, and spiked club respectively. Their worship appears to be due to their auspicious
appearance and aid on various critical occasions in the dynastic history of the T'ang and Sung
Periods.

T'ai I

Temples are found in various parts dedicated to T'ai I, the Great One, or Great Unity. When
Emperor Wu Ti (140-86 B.C.) of the Han dynasty was in search of the secret of immortality,
and various suggestions had proved unsatisfactory, a Taoist priest, Miao Chi, told the Emperor
that his want of success was due to his omission to sacrifice to T'ai I, the first of the celestial
spirits, quoting the classical precedent of antiquity found in the Book of History. The Emperor,
believing his word, ordered the Grand Master of Sacrifices to re-establish this worship at
the capital. He followed carefully the prescriptions of Miao Chi. This enraged the literati,
who resolved to ruin him. One day, when the Emperor was about to drink one of his potions,
one of the chief courtiers seized the cup and drank the contents himself. The Emperor was about
to have him slain, when he said: "Your Majesty's order is unnecessary; if the potion confers
immortality, I cannot be killed; if, on the other hand, it does not, your Majesty should recompense
me for disproving the pretensions of the Taoist priest." The Emperor, however, was not convinced.

One account represents T'ai I as having lived in the time of Shên Nung, the Divine Husbandman,
who visited him to consult with him on the subjects of diseases and fortune. He was Hsien Yüan's
medical preceptor. His medical knowledge was handed down to future generations. He was one
of those who, with the Immortals, was invited to the great Peach Assembly of the Western Royal
Mother.

As the spirit of the star T'ai I he resides in the Eastern Palace, listening for the cries
of sufferers in order to save them. For this purpose he assumes numberless forms in various
regions. With a boat of lotus-flowers of nine colours he ferries men over to the shore of salvation.
Holding in his hand a willow-branch, he scatters from it the dew of the doctrine.

T'ai I is variously represented as the Ruler of the Five Celestial Sovereigns, Cosmic Matter
before it congealed into concrete shapes, the Triune Spirit of Heaven, earth, and T'ai I as
three separate entities, an unknown Spirit, the Spirit of the Pole Star, etc., but practically
the Taoists confine their T'ai I to T'ai-i Chên-jên, in which Perfect Man they personify the
abstract philosophical notions. [20]

Goddess of the North Star

Tou Mu, the Bushel Mother, or Goddess of the North Star, worshipped by both Buddhists and Taoists,
is the Indian Maritchi, and was made a stellar divinity by the Taoists. She is said to have
been the mother of the nine Jên Huang or Human Sovereigns of fabulous antiquity, who succeeded
the lines of Celestial and Terrestrial Sovereigns. She occupies in the Taoist religion the
same relative position as Kuan Yin, who may be said to be the heart of Buddhism. Having attained
to a profound knowledge of celestial mysteries, she shone with heavenly light, could cross
the seas, and pass from the sun to the moon. She also had a kind heart for the sufferings of
humanity. The King of Chou Yü, in the north, married her on hearing of her many virtues. They
had nine sons. Yüan-shih T'ien-tsun came to earth to invite her, her husband, and nine sons
to enjoy the delights of Heaven. He placed her in the palace Tou Shu, the Pivot of the Pole,
because all the other stars revolve round it, and gave her the title of Queen of the Doctrine
of Primitive Heaven. Her nine sons have their palaces in the neighbouring stars.

Tou Mu wears the Buddhist crown, is seated on a lotus throne, has three eyes, eighteen arms,
and holds various precious objects in her numerous hands, such as a bow, spear, sword, flag,
dragon's head, pagoda, five chariots, sun's disk, moon's disk, etc. She has control of the
books of life and death, and all who wish to prolong their days worship at her shrine. Her
devotees abstain from animal food on the third and twenty-seventh day of every month.

Of her sons, two are the Northern and Southern Bushels; the latter, dressed in red, rules birth;
the former, in white, rules death. "A young Esau once found them on the South Mountain, under
a tree, playing chess, and by an offer of venison his lease of life was extended from nineteen
to ninety-nine years."

Snorter and Blower

At the time of the overthrow of the Shang and establishment of the Chou dynasty in 1122 B.C.
there lived two marshals, Chêng Lung and Ch'ên Ch'i. These were Hêng and Ha, the Snorter and
Blower respectively.

The former was the chief superintendent of supplies for the armies of the tyrant emperor Chou,
the Nero of China. The latter was in charge of the victualling department of the same army.

From his master, Tu O, the celebrated Taoist magician of the K'un-lun Mountains, Hêng acquired
a marvellous power. When he snorted, his nostrils, with a sound like that of a bell, emitted
two white columns of light, which destroyed his enemies, body and soul. Thus through him the
Chou gained numerous victories. But one day he was captured, bound, and taken to the general
of Chou. His life was spared, and he was made general superintendent of army stores as well
as generalissimo of five army corps. Later on he found himself face to face with the Blower.
The latter had learnt from the magician how to store in his chest a supply of yellow gas which,
when he blew it out, annihilated anyone whom it struck. By this means he caused large gaps
to be made in the ranks of the enemy.

Being opposed to each other, the one snorting out great streaks of white light, the other blowing
streams of yellow gas, the combat continued until the Blower was wounded in the shoulder by
No-cha, of the army of Chou, and pierced in the stomach with a spear by Huang Fei-hu, Yellow
Flying Tiger.

The Snorter in turn was slain in this fight by Marshal Chin Ta-shêng, 'Golden Big Pint,' who
was an ox-spirit and endowed with the mysterious power of producing in his entrails the celebrated
niu huang, ox-yellow, or bezoar. Facing the Snorter, he spat in his face, with a noise like
thunder, a piece of bezoar as large as a rice-bowl. It struck him on the nose and split his
nostrils. He fell to the earth, and was immediately cut in two by a blow from his victor's sword.

After the Chou dynasty had been definitely established Chiang Tzu-ya canonized the two marshals
Hêng and Ha, and conferred on them the offices of guardians of the Buddhist temple gates, where
their gigantic images may be seen.

Blue Dragon and White Tiger

The functions discharged by Hêng and Ha at the gates of Buddhist temples are in Taoist temples
discharged by Blue Dragon and White Tiger.

The former, the Spirit of the Blue Dragon Star, was Têng Chiu-kung, one of the chief generals
of the last emperor of the Yin dynasty. He had a son named Têng Hsiu, and a daughter named
Ch'an-yü.

The army of Têng Chiu-kung was camped at San-shan Kuan, when he received orders to proceed
to the battle then taking place at Hsi Ch'i. There, in standing up to No-cha and Huang Fei-hu,
he had his left arm broken by the former's magic bracelet, but, fortunately for him, his subordinate,
T'u Hsing-sun, a renowned magician, gave him a remedy which quickly healed the fracture.

His daughter then came on the scene to avenge her father. She had a magic weapon, the Five-fire
Stone, which she hurled full in the face of Yang Chien. But the Immortal was not wounded; on
the other hand, his celestial dog jumped at Ch'an-yü and bit her neck, so that she was obliged
to flee. T'u Hsing-sun, however, healed the wound.

After a banquet, Têng Chiu-kung promised his daughter in marriage to T'u Hsing-sun if he would
gain him the victory at Hsi Ch'i. Chiang Tzu-ya then persuaded T'u's magic master, Chü Liu-sun,
to call his disciple over to his camp, where he asked him why he was fighting against the new
dynasty. "Because," he replied, "Chiu-kung has promised me his daughter in marriage as a reward
of success." Chiang Tzu-ya thereupon promised to obtain the bride, and sent a force to seize
her. As a result of the fighting that ensued, Chiu-kung was beaten, and retreated in confusion,
leaving Ch'an-yü in the hands of the victors. During the next few days the marriage was celebrated
with great ceremony in the victor's camp. According to custom, the bride returned for some
days to her father's house, and while there she earnestly exhorted Chiu-kung to submit. Following
her advice, he went over to Chiang Tzu-ya's party.

In the ensuing battles he fought valiantly on the side of his former enemy, and killed many
famous warriors, but he was eventually attacked by the Blower, from whose mouth a column of
yellow gas struck him, throwing him from his steed. He was made prisoner, and executed by order
of General Ch'iu Yin. Chiang Tzu-ya conferred on him the kingdom of the Blue Dragon Star.

The Spirit of the White Tiger Star is Yin Ch'êng-hsiu. His father, Yin P'o-pai, a high courtier
of the tyrant Chou Wang, was sent to negotiate peace with Chiang Tzu-ya, but was seized and
put to death by Marquis Chiang Wên-huan. His son, attempting to avenge his father's murder,
was pierced by a spear, and his head was cut off and carried in triumph to Chiang Tzu-ya.

As compensation he was, though somewhat tardily, canonized as the Spirit of the White Tiger Star.

Apotheosized Philosophers

The philosophers Lieh Tzu, Huai-nan Tzu, Chuang Tzu, Mo Tzu, etc., have also been apotheosized.
Nothing very remarkable is related of them. Most of them had several reincarnations and possessed
supernatural powers. The second, who was a king, when taken by the Eight Immortals to the genii's
Heaven forgot now and then to address them as superiors, and but for their intercession with
Yü Ti, the Pearly Emperor, would have been reincarnated. In order to humiliate himself, he
thereafter called himself Huai-nan Tzu, 'the Sage of the South of the Huai.' The third, Chuang
Tzu, Chuang Shêng, or Chuang Chou, was a disciple of Lao Tzu. Chuang Tzu was in the habit of
sleeping during the day, and at night would transform himself into a butterfly, which fluttered
gaily over the flowers in the garden. On waking, he would still feel the sensation of flying
in his shoulders. On asking Lao Tzu the reason for this, he was told: "Formerly you were a
white butterfly which, having partaken of the quintessence of flowers and of the yin and the
yang, should have been immortalized; but one day you stole some peaches and flowers in Wang
Mu Niang-niang's garden. The guardian of the garden slew you, and that is how you came to be
reincarnated." At this time he was fifty years of age.

Fanning the Grave

One of the tales associated with him describes how he saw a young woman in mourning vigorously
fanning a newly made grave. On his asking her the reason of this strange conduct, she replied:
"I am doing this because my husband begged me to wait until the earth on his tomb was dry before
I remarried!" Chuang Tzu offered to help her, and as soon as he waved the fan once the earth
was dry. The young widow thanked him and departed.

On his return home, Chuang Shêng related this incident to his wife. She expressed astonishment
at such conduct on the part of a wife. "There's nothing to be surprised at," rejoined the husband;
"that's how things go in this world." Seeing that he was poking fun at her, she protested angrily.
Some little time after this Chuang Shêng died. His wife, much grieved, buried him.

Husband and Wife

A few days later a young man named Ch'u Wang-sun arrived with the intention, as he said, of
placing himself under the instruction of Chuang Shêng. When he heard that he was dead he went
and performed prostrations before his tomb, and afterward took up his abode in an empty room,
saying that he wished to study. After half a month had elapsed, the widow asked an old servant
who had accompanied Wang-sun if the young man was married. On his replying in the negative,
she requested the old servant to propose a match between them. Wang-sun made some objections,
saying that people would criticize their conduct. "Since my husband is dead, what can they
say?" replied the widow. She then put off her mourning-garments and prepared for the wedding.

Wang-sun took her to the grave of her husband, and said to her: "The gentleman has returned
to life!" She looked at Wang-sun and recognized the features of her husband. She was so overwhelmed
with shame that she hanged herself. Chuang Shêng buried her in an empty tomb, and then began
to sing.

He burnt his house, went away to P'u-shui, in Hupei, and occupied himself in fishing. From
there he went on to Chung-t'iao Shan, where he met Fêng Hou and her teacher Hsüan Nü, the Mother
of Heaven. In their company he visited the palaces of the stars. One day, when he was attending
a banquet at the palace of Wang-mu, Shang Ti gave him as his kingdom the planet Jupiter, and
assigned to him as his palace the ancient abode of Mao Mêng, the stellar god reincarnated during
the Chou dynasty. He had not yet returned, and had left his palace empty. Shang Ti had cautioned
him never to absent himself without his permission.

Canonized Generalissimos

A large number of military men also have been canonized as celestial generalissimos. A few
will serve as examples of the rest.

The Three Musical Brothers

There were three brothers: T'ien Yüan-shuai, the eldest; T'ien Hung-i, the second; and T'ien
Chih-piao, the youngest. They were all musicians of unsurpassed talent.

In the K'ai-yüan Period (A.D. 713-42) the Emperor Hsüan Tsung, of the T'ang dynasty, appointed
them his music masters. At the sound of their wonderful flute the clouds in the sky stopped
in their courses; the harmony of their songs caused the odoriferous la mei flower to open in
winter. They excelled also in songs and dances.

The Emperor fell sick. He saw in a dream the three brothers accompanying their singing on a
mandolin and violin. The harmony of their songs charmed his ear, and on waking he found himself
well again. Out of gratitude for this benefit he conferred on each the title of marquis.

The Grand Master of the Taoists was trying to stay the ravages of a pestilence, but he could
not conquer the devils which caused it. Under these circumstances he appealed to the three
brothers and asked their advice as to what course to adopt. T'ien Yüan-shuai had a large boat
built, called 'Spirit-boat.' He assembled in it a million spirits, and ordered them to beat
drums. On hearing this tumult all the demons of the town came out to listen. T'ien Yüan-shuai,
seizing the opportunity, captured them all and, with the help of the Grand Master, expelled
them from the town.

Besides the canonization of the three T'ien brothers, all the members of their families received
posthumous titles.

The Dragon-boat Festival

This is said to be the origin of the dragon-boats which are to be seen on all the waterways
of China on the fifth day of the fifth moon. [21] The Festival of the Dragon-boats, held on
that day, was instituted in memory of the statesman-poet Ch'ü Yüan (332-296 B.C.), who drowned
himself in the Mi-lo River, an affluent of the Tung-t'ing Lake, after having been falsely accused
by one of the petty princes of the State. The people, out of pity for the unfortunate courtier,
sent out these boats in search of his body.

Chiang Tzu-ya

In the wars which resulted in the overthrow of the tyrant Chou Wang and his dynasty and the
establishment of the great Chou dynasty, the most influential generalissimo was Chiang Tzu-ya.
His family name was Chiang, and his own name Shang, but owing to his descent from one of the
ministers of the ancient King Yao, whose heirs owned the fief of Lü, the family came to be
called by that name, and he himself was known as Lü Shang. His honorific title was T'ai Kung
Wang, 'Hope of T'ai Kung,' given him by Wên Wang, who recognized in the person of Chiang Tzu-ya
the wise minister whom his father T'ai Kung had caused him to expect before his death.

The Battle of Mu Yeh

Chiang Tzu-ya was originally in the service of the tyrant Chou Wang, but transferred his services
to the Chou cause, and by his wonderful skill enabled that house finally to gain the victory.
The decisive battle took place at Mu Yeh, situated to the south of Wei-hui Fu, in 1122 B.C.
The soldiers of Yin, 700,000 in number, were defeated, and Chou, the tyrant, shut himself up
in his magnificent palace, set it alight, and was burned alive with all his possessions. For
this achievement Chiang Tzu-ya was granted by Wu Wang the title of Father and Counsellor, and
was appointed Prince of Ch'i, with perpetual succession to his descendants.

A Legend of Chiang Tzu-ya

The Feng shên yen i contains many chapters describing in detail the various battles which resulted
in the overthrow of the last tyrant of the Shang dynasty and the establishment of the illustrious
Chou dynasty on the throne of China. This legend and the following one are epitomized from
that work.

No-cha defeats Chang Kuei-fang

The redoubtable No-cha having, by means of his Heaven-and-earth Bracelet, vanquished Fêng Lin,
a star-god and subordinate officer of Chang Kuei-fang, in spite of the black smoke-clouds which
he blew out of his nostrils, the defeated warrior fled and sought the aid of his chief, who
fought No-cha in some thirty to forty encounters without succeeding in dislodging him from
his Wind-fire Wheel, which enabled him to move about rapidly and to perform prodigious feats,
such as causing hosts of silver flying dragons like clouds of snow to descend upon his enemy.
During one of these fights No-cha heard his name called three times, but paid no heed. Finally,
with his Heaven-and-earth Bracelet he broke Chang Kuei-fang's left arm, following this up by
shooting out some dazzling rays of light which knocked him off his horse.

When he returned to the city to report his victory to Tzu-ya, the latter asked him if during
the battle Kuei-fang had called his name. "Yes," replied No-cha, "he called, but I took no
heed of him." "When Kuei-fang calls," said Tzu-ya, "the hun and the p'o [anima and umbra] become
separated, and so the body falls apart." "But," replied No-cha, "I had changed myself into
a lotus-flower, which has neither hun nor p'o, so he could not succeed in getting me off my
magic wheel."

Tzu-ya goes to K'un-lun

Tzu-ya, however, still uncertain in mind about the finality of No-cha's victories, went to
consult Wu Wang (whose death had not yet taken place at this time). After the interview Tzu-ya
informed Wu Wang of his wish to visit K'un-lun Mountain. Wu Wang warned him of the danger of
leaving the kingdom with the enemy so near the capital; but Tzu-ya obtained his consent by
saying he would be absent only three days at most. So he gave instructions regarding the defence
to No-cha, and went off in his spirit chariot to K'un-lun. On his arrival at the Unicorn Precipice
he was much enraptured with the beautiful scenery, the colours, flowers, trees, bridges, birds,
deer, apes, blue lions, white elephants, etc., all of which seemed to make earth surpass Heaven
in loveliness.

He receives the List of Immortals

From the Unicorn Precipice he went on to the Jade Palace of Abstraction. Here he was presented
to Yüan-shih. From him he received the List of Promotions to Immortals, which Nan-chi Hsien-wêng,
'Ancient Immortal of the South Pole,' had brought, and was told to go and erect a Fêng Shên
T'ai (Spirits' Promotion Terrace) on which to exhibit it. Yüan-shih also warned him that if
anyone called him while he was on the way he was to be most careful not to answer. On reaching
the Unicorn Precipice on his way back, he heard some one call: "Chiang Tzu-ya!" This happened
three times without his paying any heed. Then the voice was heard to say: "Now that you are
Prime Minister, how devoid of feeling and forgetful of bygone benefits you must be not to remember
one who studied with you in the Jade Palace of Abstraction!" Tzu-ya could not but turn his
head and look. He then saw that it was Shên Kung-pao. He said: "Brother, I did not know it
was you who were calling me, and I did not heed you as Shih-tsun told me on no account to reply."
Shên Kung-pao said: "What is that you hold in your hand?" He told him it was the List of Promotions
to Immortals. Shên Kung-pao then tried to entice Tzu-ya from his allegiance to Chou. Among
Shên's tactics was that of convincing Tzu-ya of the superiority of the magical arts at the
disposal of the supporters of Chou Wang. "You," he said, "can drain the sea, change the hills,
and suchlike things, but what are those compared with my powers, who can take off my head,
make it mount into space, travel 10,000,000 li, and return to my neck just as complete as before
and able to speak? Burn your List of Promotions to Immortals and come with me." Tzu-ya, thinking
that a head which could travel 10,000,000 li and be the same as before was exceedingly rare,
said: "Brother, you take your head off, and if in reality it can do as you say, rise into space
and return and be as before, I shall be willing to burn the List of Promotions to Immortals
and return with you to Chao Ko." Shên Kung-pao said: "You will not go back on your word?" Tzu-ya
said: "When your elder brother has spoken his word is as unchangeable as Mount T'ai, How can
there be any going back on my word?"

The Soaring Head

Shên Kung-pao then doffed his Taoist cap, seized his sword, with his left hand firmly grasped
the blue thread binding his hair, and with his right cut off his head. His body did not fall
down. He then took his head and threw it up into space. Tzu-ya gazed with upturned face as
it continued to rise, and was sorely puzzled. But the Ancient Immortal of the South Pole had
kept a watch on the proceedings. He said: "Tzu-ya is a loyal and honest man; it looks as if
he has been deceived by this charlatan." He ordered White Crane Youth to assume quickly the
form of a crane and fetch Shên Kung-pao's head.

The Ancient Immortal saves the Situation

Tzu-ya was still gazing upward when he felt a slap on his back and, turning round, saw that
it was the Ancient Immortal of the South Pole. Tzu-ya quickly asked: "My elder brother, why
have you returned?" Hsien-wêng said: "You are a fool. Shên Kung-pao is a man of unholy practices.
These few small tricks of his you take as realities. But if the head does not return to the
neck within an hour and three-quarters the blood will coagulate and he will die. Shih-tsun
ordered you not to reply to anyone; why did you not hearken to his words? From the Jade Palace
of Abstraction I saw you speaking together, and knew you had promised to burn the List of Promotions
to Immortals. So I ordered White Crane Youth to bring me the head. After an hour and three-quarters
Shên Kung-pao will be recompensed."

Tzu-ya said: "My elder brother, since you know all you can pardon him. In the Taoist heart
there is no place where mercy cannot be exercised. Remember the many years during which he
has faithfully followed the Path."

Eventually the Ancient Immortal was persuaded, but in the meantime Shên Kung-pao, finding that
his head did not return, became very much troubled in mind. In an hour and three-quarters the
blood would stop flowing and he would die. However, Tzu-ya having succeeded in his intercession
with the Ancient Immortal, the latter signed to White Crane Youth, who was flying in space
with the head in his beak, to let it drop. He did so, but when it reached the neck it was facing
backward. Shên Kung-pao quickly put up his hand, took hold of an ear, and turned his head the
right way round. He was then able to open his eyes, when he saw the Ancient Immortal of the
South Pole. The latter arraigned him in a loud voice saying: "You as-good-as-dead charlatan,
who by means of corrupt tricks try to deceive Tzu-ya and make him burn the List of Immortals
and help Chou Wang against Chou, what do you mean by all this? You should be taken to the Jade
Palace of Abstraction to be punished!"

Shên Kung-pao, ashamed, could not reply; mounting his tiger, he made off; but as he left he
hurled back a threat that the Chou would yet have their white bones piled mountains high at
Hsi Ch'i. Subsequently Tzu-ya, carefully preserving the precious List, after many adventures
succeeded in building the Fêng Shên T'ai, and posted the List up on it. Having accomplished
his mission, he returned in time to resist the capture of Hsi Ch'i by Chang Kuei-fang, whose
troops were defeated with great slaughter.

Ch'iung Hsiao's Magic Scissors

In another of the many conflicts between the two rival states Lao Tzu entered the battle, whereupon
Ch'iung Hsiao, a goddess who fought for the house of Shang (Chou), hurled into the air her
gold scaly-dragon scissors. As these slowly descended, opening and closing in a most ominous
manner, Lao Tzu waved the sleeve of his jacket and they fell into the sea and became absolutely
motionless. Many similar tricks were used by the various contestants. The Gold Bushel of Chaotic
Origin succumbed to the Wind-fire Sphere, and so on. Ch'iung Hsiao resumed the attack with
some magic two-edged swords, but was killed by a blow from White Crane Youth's Three-precious
Jade Sceptre, hurled at her by Lao Tzu's orders. Pi Hsiao, her sister, attempted to avenge
her death, but Yüan-shih, producing from his sleeve a magical box, threw it into the air and
caught Pi Hsiao in it. When it was opened it was found that she had melted into blood and water.

Chiang Tzu-ya defeats Wên Chung

After this Lao Tzu rallied many of the skilful spirits to help Chiang Tzu-ya in his battle
with Wên Chung, providing them with the Ancient Immortal of the South Pole's Sand-blaster and
an earth-conquering light which enabled them to travel a thousand li in a day. From the hot
sand used the contest became known as the Red Sand Battle. Jan Têng, on P'êng-lai Mountain,
in consultation with Tzu-ya, also arranged the plan of battle.

The Red Sand Battle

The fight began with a challenge from the Ancient Immortal of the South Pole to Chang Shao.
The latter, riding his deer, dashed into the fray, and aimed a terrific blow with his sword
at Hsien-wêng's head, but White Crane Youth warded it off with his Three-precious Jade Sceptre.
Chang then produced a two-edged sword and renewed the attack, but, being disarmed, dismounted
from his deer and threw several handfuls of hot sand at Hsien-wêng. The latter, however, easily
fanned them away with his Five-fire Seven-feathers Fan, rendering them harmless. Chang then
fetched a whole bushel of the hot sand and scattered it over the enemy, but Hsien-wêng counteracted
the menace by merely waving his fan. White Crane Youth struck Chang Shao with his jade sceptre,
knocking him off his horse, and then dispatched him with his two-edged sword.

After this battle Wu Wang was found to be already dead. Jan Têng on learning this ordered Lei
Chên-tzu to take the corpse to Mount P'êng and wash it. He then dissolved a pill in water and
poured the solution into Wu Wang's mouth, whereupon he revived and was escorted back to his palace.

Further Fighting

Preparations were then made for resuming the attack on Wên Chung. While the latter was consulting
with Ts'ai-yün Hsien-tzu and Han Chih-hsien, he heard the sound of the Chou guns and the thunder
of their troops. Wên Chung, mounting his black unicorn, galloped like a whiff of smoke to meet
Tzu-ya, but was stopped by blows from two silver hammers wielded by Huang T'ien-hua. Han Chih-hsien
came to Wên's aid, but was opposed by Pi Hsiang-yang. Ts'ai-yün Hsien-tzu dashed into the fray,
but No-cha stepped on to his Wind-fire Wheel and opposed him. From all sides other Immortals
joined in the terrific battle, which was a turmoil of longbows and crossbows, iron armour and
brass mail, striking whips and falling hammers, weapons cleaving mail and mail resisting weapons.
In this fierce contest, while Tzu-ya was fighting Wên Chung, Han Chih-hsien released a black
wind from his magic wind-bag, but he did not know that the Taoist Barge of Mercy (which transports
departed souls to the land of bliss), sent by Kuan Yin, the Goddess of Mercy, had on board
the Stop-wind Pearl, by which the black storm was immediately quelled. Thereupon Tzu-ya quickly
seized his Vanquish-spirits Whip and struck Han Chih-hsien in the middle of the skull, so that
the brain-fluid gushed forth and he died. No-cha then slew Ts'ai-yün Hsien-tzu with a spear-thrust.

Thus the stern fight went on, until finally Tzu-ya, under cover of night, attacked Wên Chung's
troops simultaneously on all four sides. The noise of slaughter filled the air. Generals and
rank and file, lanterns, torches, swords, spears, guns, and daggers were one confused mêlée;
Heaven could scarcely be distinguished from earth, and corpses were piled mountains high.

Tzu-ya, having broken through seven lines of the enemy's ranks, forced his way into Wên Chung's
camp. The latter mounted his unicorn, and brandishing his magic whip dashed to meet him. Tzu-ya
drew his sword and stopped his onrush, being aided by Lung Hsü-hu, who repeatedly cast a rain
of hot stones on to the troops. In the midst of the fight Tzu-ya brought out his great magic
whip, and in spite of Wên Chung's efforts to avoid it succeeded in wounding him in the left
arm. The Chou troops were fighting like dragons lashing their tails and pythons curling their
bodies. To add to their disasters, the Chou now saw flames rising behind the camp, and knew
that their provisions were being burned by Yang Chien.

The Chou armies, with gongs beating and drums rolling, advanced for a final effort, the slaughter
being so great that even the devils wept and the spirits wailed. Wên Chung was eventually driven
back seventy li to Ch'i Hill. His troops could do nothing but sigh and stumble along. He made
for Peach-blossom Range, but as he approached it he saw a yellow banner hoisted, and under
it was Kuang Ch'êng-tzu. Being prevented from escaping in that direction he joined battle,
but by use of red-hot sand, his two-edged sword, and his Turn-heaven Seal Kuang Ch'êng-tzu
put him to flight. He then made off toward the west, followed by Têng Chung. His design was
to make for Swallow Hill, which he reached after several days of weary marching. Here he saw
another yellow banner flying, and Ch'ih Ching-tzu informed him that Jan Têng had forbidden
him to stop at Swallow Hill or to go through the Five Passes. This led to another pitched battle,
Wên Chung using his magic whip and Ch'ih his spiritual two-edged sword. After several bouts
Ch'ih brought out his yin-yang mirror, by use of which irresistible weapon Wên was driven to
Yellow Flower Hill and Blue Dragon Pass, and so on from battle to battle, until he was drawn
up to Heaven from the top of Dead-dragon Mountain.

Thousand-li Eye and Favourable-wind Ear

Ch'ien-li Yen, 'Thousand-li Eye,' and Shun-fêng Êrh, 'Favourable-wind Ear,' were two brothers
named Kao Ming and Kao Chio. On account of their martial bearing they found favour with the
tyrant emperor Chou Wang, who appointed them generals, and sent them to serve with Generalissimo
Yüan Hung (who was a monkey which had taken human form) at Mêng-ching.

Kao Ming was very tall, with a blue face, flaming eyes, a large mouth, and prominent teeth
like those of a rhinoceros.

Kao Chio had a greenish face and skin, two horns on his head, a red beard, and a large mouth
with teeth shaped like swords.

One of their first encounters was with No-cha, who hurled at them his mystic bracelet, which
struck Kao Chio on the head, but did not leave even a scratch. When, however, he seized his
fire-globe the brothers thought it wiser to retreat.

Finding no means of conquering them, Yang Chien, Chiang Tzu-ya, and Li Ching took counsel together
and decided to have recourse to Fu Hsi's trigrams, and by smearing them with the blood of a
fowl and a dog to destroy their spiritual power.

But the two brothers were fully informed of what was designed. Thousand-li Eye had seen and
Favourable-wind Ear had heard everything, so that all their preparations proved unavailing.

Yang Chien then went to Chiang Tzu-ya and said to him: "These two brothers are powerful devils;
I must take more effectual measures." "Where will you go for aid?" asked Chiang Tzu-ya. "I
cannot tell you, for they would hear," replied Yang. He then left. Favourable-wind Ear heard
this dialogue, and Thousand-li Eye saw him leave. "He did not say where he was going," they
said to each other, "but we fear him not." Yang Chien went to Yü-ch'üan Shan, where lived Yü-ting
Chên-jên, 'Hero Jade-tripod.' He told him about their two adversaries, and asked him how they
were to conquer them. "These two genii," replied the Chên-jên, "are from Ch'i-p'an Shan, Chessboard
Mountain. One is a spiritual peach-tree, the other a spiritual pomegranate-tree. Their roots
cover an area of thirty square li of ground. On that mountain there is a temple dedicated to
Huang-ti, in which are clay images of two devils called Ch'ien-li Yen and Shun-fêng Êrh. The
peach-tree and pomegranate-tree, having become spiritual beings, have taken up their abode
in these images. One has eyes which can see objects distinctly at a distance of a thousand
li, the other ears that can hear sounds at a like distance. But beyond that distance they can
neither see nor hear. Return and tell Chiang Tzu-ya to have the roots of those trees torn up
and burned, and the images destroyed; then the two genii will be easily vanquished. In order
that they may neither see nor hear you during your conversation with Chiang Tzu-ya, wave flags
about the camp and order the soldiers to beat tom-toms and drums."

How the Brothers were Defeated

Yang Chien returned to Chiang Tzu-ya. "What have you been doing?" asked the latter. Before
replying Yang Chien went to the camp and ordered soldiers to wave large red flags and a thousand
others to beat the tom-toms and drums. The air was so filled with the flags and the noise that
nothing else could be either seen or heard. Under cover of this device Yang Chien then communicated
to Chiang Tzu-ya the course advised by the Chên-jên.

Accordingly Li Ching at the head of three thousand soldiers proceeded to Ch'i-p'an Shan, pulled
up and burned the roots of the two trees, and broke the images to pieces. At the same time
Lei Chên-tzu was ordered to attack the two genii.

Thousand-li Eye and Favourable-wind Ear could neither see nor hear: the flags effectually screened
the horizon and the infernal noise of the drums and gongs deadened all other sound. They did
not know how to stop them.

The following night Yüan Hung decided to take the camp of Chiang Tzu-ya by assault, and sent
the brothers in advance. They were, however, themselves surprised by Wu Wang's officers, who
surrounded them. Chiang Tzu-ya then threw into the air his 'devil-chaser' whip, which fell
on the two scouts and cleft their skulls in twain.

Celestial Ministries

The dualistic idea, already referred to, of the Otherworld being a replica of this one is nowhere
more clearly illustrated than in the celestial Ministries or official Bureaux or Boards, with
their chiefs and staffs functioning over the spiritual hierarchies. The Nine Ministries up
aloft doubtless had their origin in imitation of the Six, Eight, or Nine Ministries or Boards
which at various periods of history have formed the executive part of the official hierarchy
in China. But their names are different and their functions do not coincide.

Generally, the functions of the officers of the celestial Boards are to protect mankind from
the evils represented in the title of the Board, as, for example, thunder, smallpox, fire,
etc. In all cases the duties seem to be remedial. As the God of War was, as we saw, the god
who protects people from the evils of war, so the vast hierarchy of these various divinities
is conceived as functioning for the good of mankind. Being too numerous for inclusion here,
an account of them is given under various headings in some of the following chapters.

Protectors of the People

Besides the gods who hold definite official posts in these various Ministries, there are a
very large number who are also protecting patrons of the people; and, though ex officio, in
many cases quite as popular and powerful, if not more so. Among the most important are the
following: Shê-chi, Gods of the Soil and Crops; Shên Nung, God of Agriculture; Hou-t'u, Earth-mother;
Ch'êng-huang, City-god; T'u-ti, Local Gods; Tsao Chün, Kitchen-god; T'ien-hou and An-kung,
Goddess and God of Sailors; Ts'an Nü, Goddess of Silkworms; Pa-ch'a, God of Grasshoppers; Fu
Shên, Ts'ai Shên, and Shou Hsing, Gods of Happiness, Wealth, and Longevity; Mên Shên, Door-gods;
and Shê-mo Wang, etc., the Gods of Serpents.

The Ch'êng-huang

Ch'êng-huang is the Celestial Mandarin or City-god. Every fortified city or town in China is
surrounded by a wall, ch'êng, composed usually of two battlemented walls, the space between
which is filled with earth. This earth is dug from the ground outside, making a ditch, or huang,
running parallel with the ch'êng. The Ch'êng-huang is the spiritual official of the city or
town. All the numerous Ch'êng-huang constitute a celestial Ministry of Justice, presided over
by a Ch'êng-huang-in-chief.

The origin of the worship of the Ch'êng-huang dates back to the time of the great Emperor Yao
(2357 B.C.), who instituted a sacrifice called Pa Cha in honour of eight spirits, of whom the
seventh, Shui Yung, had the meaning of, or corresponded to, the dyke and rampart known later
as Ch'êng-huang. Since the Sung dynasty sacrifices have been offered to the Ch'êng-huang all
over the country, though now and then some towns have adopted another or special god as their
Ch'êng-huang, such as Chou Hsin, adopted as the Ch'êng-huang of Hangchou, the capital of Chekiang
Province. Concerning Chou Hsin, who had a "face of ice and iron," and was so much dreaded for
his severity that old and young fled at his approach, it is related that once when he was trying
a case a storm blew some leaves on to his table. In spite of diligent search the tree to which
this kind of leaf belonged could not be found anywhere in the neighbourhood, but was eventually
discovered in a Buddhist temple a long way off. The judge declared that the priests of this
temple must be guilty of murder. By his order the tree was felled, and in its trunk was found
the body of a woman who had been assassinated, and the priests were convicted of the murder.

The Kitchen-god

Tsao Chün is a Taoist invention, but is universally worshipped by all families in China--about
sixty millions of pictures of him are regularly worshipped twice a month--at new and full moon.
"His temple is a little niche in the brick cooking-range; his palace is often filled with smoke;
and his Majesty sells for one farthing." He is also called 'the God of the Stove.' The origin
of his worship, according to the legend, is that a Taoist priest, Li Shao-chün by name, of
the Ch'i State, obtained from the Kitchen-god the double favour of exemption from growing old
and of being able to live without eating. He then went to the Emperor Hsiao Wu-ti (140-86 B.C.)
of the Han dynasty, and promised that credulous monarch that he should benefit by the powers
of the god provided that he would consent to patronize and encourage his religion. It was by
this means, he added, that the Emperor Huang Ti obtained his knowledge of alchemy, which enabled
him to make gold.

The Emperor asked the priest to bring him his divine patron, and one night the image of Tsao
Chün appeared to him.

Deceived by this trick, dazzled by the ingots of gold which he too should obtain, and determined
to risk everything for the pill of immortality which was among the benefits promised, the Emperor
made a solemn sacrifice to the God of the Kitchen.

This was the first time that a sacrifice had been officially offered to this new deity.

Li Shao-chün gradually lost the confidence of the Emperor and, at his wits' end, conceived
the plan of writing some phrases on a piece of silk and then causing them to be swallowed by
an ox. This done, he announced that a wonderful script would be found in the animal's stomach.
The ox being killed, the script was found there as predicted, but Li's unlucky star decreed
that the Emperor should recognize his handwriting, and he was forthwith put to death. Nevertheless,
the worship of the Kitchen-god continued and increased, and exists in full vigour down to the
present day.

This deity has power over the lives of the members of each family under his supervision, distributes
riches and poverty at will, and makes an annual report to the Supreme Being on the conduct
of the family during the year, for which purpose he is usually absent for from four to seven
days. Some hold that he also makes these reports once or twice or several times each month.
Various ceremonies are performed on seeing him off to Heaven and welcoming him back. One of
the former, as we saw, is to regale him with honey, so that only sweet words, if any, may be
spoken by him while up aloft!

Ts'an Nü

In the kingdom of Shu (modern Ssuch'uan), in the time of Kao Hsing Ti, a band of robbers kidnapped
the father of Ts'an Nü. A whole year elapsed, and the father's horse still remained in the
stable as he had left it. The thought of not seeing her father again caused Ts'an Nü such grief
that she would take no nourishment. Her mother did what she could to console her, and further
promised her in marriage to anyone who would bring back her father. But no one was found who
could do this. Hearing the offer, the horse stamped with impatience, and struggled so much
that at length he broke the halter by which he was tied up. He then galloped away and disappeared.
Several days later, his owner returned riding the horse. From that time the horse neighed incessantly,
and refused all food. This caused the mother to make known to her husband the promise she had
made concerning her daughter. "An oath made to men," he replied, "does not hold good for a
horse. Is a human being meant to live in marital relations with a horse?" Nevertheless, however
good and abundant food they offered him, the horse would not eat. When he saw the young lady
he plunged and kicked furiously. Losing his temper, the father discharged an arrow and killed
him on the spot; then he skinned him and spread the skin on the ground outside the house to
dry. As the young lady was passing the spot the skin suddenly moved, rose up, enveloped her,
and disappeared into space. Ten days later it was found at the foot of a mulberry-tree; Ts'an
Nü changed into a silkworm, was eating the mulberry-leaves, and spinning for herself a silken
garment.

The parents of course were in despair. But one day, while they were overwhelmed with sad thoughts,
they saw on a cloud Ts'an Nü riding the horse and attended by several dozens of servants. She
descended toward her parents, and said to them: "The Supreme Being, as a reward for my martyrdom
in the cause of filial piety and my love of virtue, has conferred on me the dignity of Concubine
of the Nine Palaces. Be reassured as to my fate, for in Heaven I shall live for ever." Having
said this she disappeared into space.

In the temples her image is to be seen covered with a horse's skin. She is called Ma-t'ou Niang,
'the Lady with the Horse's Head,' and is prayed to for the prosperity of mulberry-trees and
silkworms. The worship continues even in modern times. The goddess is also represented as a
stellar divinity, the star T'ien Ssu; as the first man who reared silkworms, in this character
bearing the same name as the God of Agriculture, Pasture, and Fire; and as the wife of the
Emperor Huang Ti.

The God of Happiness

The God of Happiness, Fu Shên, owes his origin to the predilection of the Emperor Wu Ti (A.D.
502-50) of the Liang dynasty for dwarfs as servants and comedians in his palace. The number
levied from the Tao Chou district in Hunan became greater and greater, until it seriously prejudiced
the ties of family relations. When Yang Ch'êng, alias Yang Hsi-chi, was Criminal Judge of Tao
Chou he represented to the Emperor that, according to law, the dwarfs were his subjects but
not his slaves. Being touched by this remark, the Emperor ordered the levy to be stopped.

Overjoyed at their liberation from this hardship, the people of that district set up images
of Yang and offered sacrifices to him. Everywhere he was venerated as the Spirit of Happiness.
It was in this simple way that there came into being a god whose portraits and images abound
everywhere throughout the country, and who is worshipped almost as universally as the God of
Riches himself.

Another person who attained to the dignity of God of Happiness (known as Tsêng-fu Hsiang-kung,
'the Young Gentleman who Increases Happiness') was Li Kuei-tsu, the minister of Emperor Wên
Ti of the Wei dynasty, the son of the famous Ts'ao Ts'ao, but in modern times the honour seems
to have passed to Kuo Tzu-i. He was the saviour of the T'ang dynasty from the depredations
of the Turfans in the reign of the Emperor Hsüan Tsung. He lived A.D. 697-781, was a native
of Hua Chou, in Shensi, and one of the most illustrious of Chinese generals. He is very often
represented in pictures clothed in blue official robes, leading his small son Kuo Ai to Court.

The God of Wealth

As with many other Chinese gods, the proto-being of the God of Wealth, Ts'ai Shên, has been
ascribed to several persons. The original and best known until later times was Chao Kung-ming.
The accounts of him differ also, but the following is the most popular.

When Chiang Tzu-ya was fighting for Wu Wang of the Chou dynasty against the last of the Shang
emperors, Chao Kung-ming, then a hermit on Mount Ô-mei, took the part of the latter. He performed
many wonderful feats. He could ride a black tiger and hurl pearls which burst like bombshells.
But he was eventually overcome by the form of witchcraft known in Wales as Ciurp Creadh. Chiang
Tzu-ya made a straw image of him, wrote his name on it, burned incense and worshipped before
it for twenty days, and on the twenty-first shot arrows made of peach-wood into its eyes and
heart. At that same moment Kung-ming, then in the enemy's camp, felt ill and fainted, and uttering
a cry gave up the ghost.

Later on Chiang Tzu-ya persuaded Yüan-shih T'ien-tsun to release from the Otherworld the spirits
of the heroes who had died in battle, and when Chao Kung-ming was led into his presence he
praised his bravery, deplored the circumstances of his death, and canonized him as President
of the Ministry of Riches and Prosperity.

The God of Riches is universally worshipped in China; images and portraits of him are to be
seen everywhere. Talismans, trees of which the branches are strings of cash, and the fruits
ingots of gold, to be obtained merely by shaking them down, a magic inexhaustible casket full
of gold and silver--these and other spiritual sources of wealth are associated with this much-adored
deity. He himself is represented in the guise of a visitor accompanied by a crowd of attendants
laden with all the treasures that the hearts of men, women, and children could desire.

The God of Longevity

The God of Longevity, Shou Hsing, was first a stellar deity, later on represented in human
form. It was a constellation formed of the two star-groups Chio and K'ang, the first two on
the list of twenty-eight constellations. Hence, say the Chinese writers, because of this precedence,
it was called the Star of Longevity. When it appears the nation enjoys peace, when it disappears
there will be war. Ch'in Shih Huang-ti, the First Emperor, was the first to offer sacrifices
to this star, the Old Man of the South Pole, at Shê Po, in 246 B.C. Since then the worship
has been continued pretty regularly until modern times.

But desire for something more concrete, or at least more personal, than a star led to the god's
being represented as an old man. Connected with this is a long legend which turns on the point
that after the father of Chao Yen had been told by the celebrated physiognomist Kuan Lo that
his son would not live beyond the age of nineteen, the transposition from shih-chiu, nineteen,
to chiu-shih, ninety, was made by one of two gamblers, who turned out to be the Spirit of the
North Pole, who fixes the time of decease, as the Spirit of the South Pole does that of birth.

The deity is a domestic god, of happy mien, with a very high forehead, usually spoken of as
Shou Hsing Lao T'ou Tzu, 'Longevity Star Old-pate,' and is represented as riding a stag, with
a flying bat above his head. He holds in his hand a large peach, and attached to his long staff
are a gourd and a scroll. The stag and the bat both indicate fu, happiness. The peach, gourd,
and scroll are symbols of longevity.

The Door-gods

An old legend relates that in the earliest times there grew on Mount Tu Shuo, in the Eastern
Sea, a peach-tree of fabulous size whose branches covered an area of several thousand square
li. The lowest branches, which inclined toward the north-east, formed the Door of the Devils
(kuei), through which millions of them passed in and out. Two spirits, named Shên Shu (or Shu
Yü) and Yü Lü, had been instructed to guard this passage. Those who had done wrong to mankind
were immediately bound by them and given over to be devoured by tigers. When Huang Ti heard
of this he had the portraits of the two spirits painted on peach-wood tablets and hung above
the doors to keep off evil spirits. This led to the suspension of the small figures or plaques
on the doors of the people generally. Gradually they were supplanted by paintings on paper
pasted on the doors, showing the two spirits armed with bows, arrows, spears, etc., Shên Shu
on the left, Yü Lü on the right.

In later times, however, these Door-gods were supplanted in popular favour by two ministers
of the Emperor T'ai Tsung of the T'ang dynasty, by name Ch'in Shu-pao and Hu Ching-tê. T'ai
Tsung had fallen sick, and imagined that he heard demons rampaging in his bedroom. The ministers
of State, on inquiring as to the nature of the malady, were informed by the physician that
his Majesty's pulse was feverish, that he seemed nervous and saw visions, and that his life
was in danger.

The ministers were in great fear. The Empress summoned other physicians to a consultation,
and after the sick Emperor had informed them that, though all was quiet during the daytime,
he was sure he saw and heard demons during the night, Ch'in Shu-pao and Hu Ching-tê stated
that they would sit up all night and watch outside his door.

Accordingly they posted themselves, fully armed, outside the palace gate all night, and the
Emperor slept in peace. Next day the Emperor thanked them heartily, and from that time his
sickness diminished. The two ministers, however, continued their vigils until the Emperor informed
them that he would no longer impose upon their readiness to sacrifice themselves. He ordered
them to paint their portraits in full martial array and paste these on the palace doors to
see if that would not have the same effect. For some nights all was peace; then the same commotion
was heard at the back gates of the palace. The minister Wei Chêng offered to stand guard at
the back gates in the same way that his colleagues had done at the front gates. The result
was that in a few days the Emperor's health was entirely restored.

Thus it is that Wei Chêng is often associated with the other two Door-gods, sometimes with
them, sometimes in place of them. Pictures of these mên shên, elaborately coloured, and renewed
at the New Year, are to be seen on almost every door in China.

Chinese Polytheism

That the names of the gods of China are legion will be readily conceded when it is said that,
besides those already described, those still to be mentioned, and many others to whom space
will not permit us to refer, there are also gods, goddesses, patrons, etc., of wind, rain,
snow, frost, rivers, tides, caves, trees, flowers, theatres, horses, oxen, cows, sheep, goats,
dogs, pigs, scorpions, locusts, gold, tea, salt, compass, archery, bridges, lamps, gems, wells,
carpenters, masons, barbers, tailors, jugglers, nets, wine, bean-curd, jade, paper-clothing,
eye, ear, nose, tongue, teeth, heart, liver, throat, hands, feet, skin, architecture, rain-clothes,
monkeys, lice, Punch and Judy, fire-crackers, cruelty, revenge, manure, fornication, shadows,
corners, gamblers, oculists, smallpox, liver complaint, stomach-ache, measles, luck, womb,
midwives, hasteners of child-birth, brigands, butchers, furnishers, centipedes, frogs, stones,
beds, candle-merchants, fishermen, millers, wig-merchants, incense-merchants, spectacle-makers,
cobblers, harness-makers, seedsmen, innkeepers, basket-makers, chemists, painters, perfumers,
jewellers, brush-makers, dyers, fortune-tellers, strolling singers, brothels, varnishers, combs,
etc., etc. There is a god of the light of the eye as well as of the eye itself, of smallpox-marks
as well as of smallpox, of 'benign' measles as well as of measles. After reading a full list
of the gods of China, those who insist that the religion of China was or is a monotheism may
be disposed to revise their belief.

CHAPTER V

Myths of the Stars

Astrological Superstitions

According to Chinese ideas, the sun, moon, and planets influence sublunary events, especially
the life and death of human beings, and changes in their colour menace approaching calamities.
Alterations in the appearance of the sun announce misfortunes to the State or its head, as
revolts, famines, or the death of the emperor; when the moon waxes red, or turns pale, men
should be in awe of the unlucky times thus fore-omened. All the stars are ranged into constellations,
and an emperor is installed over them, who resides at the North Pole; five monarchs also live
in the five stars in Leo, where is a palace called Wu Ti Tso, or 'Throne of the Five Emperors.'
In this celestial government there are also an heir-apparent, empresses, sons and daughters,
and tribunals, and the constellations receive the names of men, animals, and other terrestrial
objects. The Great Bear, or Dipper, is worshipped as the residence of the Fates, where the
duration of life and other events relating to mankind are measured and meted out. Fears are
excited by unusual phenomena among the heavenly bodies.

Both the sun and the moon are worshipped by the Government in appropriate temples on the east
and west sides of Peking.

Various Star-gods

Some of the star-gods, such as the God of Literature, the Goddess of the North Star, the Gods
of Happiness, Longevity, etc., are noticed in other parts of this work. The cycle-gods are
also star-gods. There are sixty years in a cycle, and over each of these presides a special
star-deity. The one worshipped is the one which gave light on the birthday of the worshipper,
and therefore the latter burns candles before that particular image on each succeeding anniversary.
These cycle-gods are represented by most grotesque images: "white, black, yellow, and red;
ferocious gods with vindictive eyeballs popping out, and gentle faces as expressive as a lump
of putty; some looking like men and some like women." In one temple one of the sixty was in
the form of a hog, and another in that of a goose. "Here is an image with arms protruding out
of his eye-sockets, and eyes in the palms of his hands, looking downward to see the secret
things within the earth. See that rabbit, Minerva-like, jumping from the divine head; again
a mud-rat emerges from his occipital hiding-place, and lo! a snake comes coiling from the brain
of another god--so the long line serves as models for an artist who desires to study the fantastic."

Shooting the Heavenly Dog

In the family sleeping-apartments in Chinese houses hang pictures of Chang Hsien, a white-faced,
long-bearded man with a little boy by his side, and in his hand a bow and arrow, with which
he is shooting the Heavenly Dog. The dog is the Dog-star, and if the 'fate' of the family is
under this star there will be no son, or the child will be short-lived. Chang Hsien is the
patron of child-bearing women, and was worshipped under the Sung dynasty by women desirous
of offspring. The introduction of this name into the Chinese pantheon is due to an incident
in the history of Hua-jui Fu-jên, a name given to Lady Fei, concubine of Mêng Ch'ang, the last
ruler of the Later Shu State, A.D. 935-964. When she was brought from Shu to grace the harem
of the founder of the Sung dynasty, in A.D. 960, she is said to have preserved secretly the
portrait of her former lord, the Prince of Shu, whose memory she passionately cherished. Jealously
questioned by her new consort respecting her devotion to this picture, she declared it to be
the representation of Chang Hsien, the divine being worshipped by women desirous of offspring.
Opinions differ as to the origin of the worship. One account says that the Emperor Jên Tsung,
of the Sung dynasty, saw in a dream a beautiful young man with white skin and black hair, carrying
a bow in his hand. He said to the Emperor: "The star T'ien Kou, Heavenly Dog, in the heavens
is hiding the sun and moon, and on earth devouring small children. It is only my presence which
keeps him at bay."

On waking, the Emperor at once ordered the young man's portrait to be painted and exhibited,
and from that time childless families would write the name Chang Hsien on tablets and worship them.

Another account describes Chang Hsien as the spirit of the star Chang. In the popular representations
Chang Hsien is seen in the form of a distinguished personage drawing a bow. The spirit of the
star Chang is supposed to preside over the kitchen of Heaven and to arrange the banquets given
by the gods.

The Sun-king

The worship of the sun is part of the State religion, and the officials make their offerings
to the sun-tablet. The moon also is worshipped. At the harvest moon, the full moon of the eighth
month, the Chinese bow before the heavenly luminary, and each family burns incense as an offering.
Thus "100,000 classes all receive the blessings of the icy-wheel in the Milky Way along the
heavenly street, a mirror always bright." In Chinese illustrations we see the moon-palace of
Ch'ang O, who stole the pill of immortality and flew to the moon, the fragrant tree which one
of the genii tried to cut down, and a hare pestling medicine in a mortar. This refers to the
following legend.

The sun and the moon are both included by the Chinese among the stars, the spirit of the former
being called T'ai-yang Ti-chün, 'the Sun-king,' or Jih-kung Ch'ih-chiang, 'Ch'ih-chiang of
the Solar Palace,' that of the latter T'ai-yin Huang-chün, 'the Moon-queen,' or Yüeh-fu Ch'ang
O, 'Ch'ang O of the Lunar Palace.'

Ch'ih-chiang Tzu-yü lived in the reign of Hsien-yüan Huang-ti, who appointed him Director of
Construction and Furnishing.

When Hsien-yüan went on his visit to Ô-mei Shan, a mountain in Ssuch'uan, Ch'ih-chiang Tzu-yü
obtained permission to accompany him. Their object was to be initiated into the doctrine of
immortality.

The Emperor was instructed in the secrets of the doctrine by T'ai-i Huang-jên, the spirit of
this famous mountain, who, when he was about to take his departure, begged him to allow Ch'ih-chiang
Tzu-yü to remain with him. The new hermit went out every day to gather the flowering plants
which formed the only food of his master, T'ai-i Huang-jên, and he also took to eating these
flowers, so that his body gradually became spiritualized.

The Steep Summit

One day T'ai-i Huang-jên sent him to cut some bamboos on the summit of Ô-mei Shan, distant
more than three hundred li from the place where they lived. When he reached the base of the
summit, all of a sudden three giddy peaks confronted him, so dangerous that even the monkeys
and other animals dared not attempt to scale them. But he took his courage in his hands, climbed
the steep slope, and by sheer energy reached the summit. Having cut the bamboos, he tried to
descend, but the rocks rose like a wall in sharp points all round him, and he could not find
a foothold anywhere. Then, though laden with the bamboos, he threw himself into the air, and
was borne on the wings of the wind. He came to earth safe and sound at the foot of the mountain,
and ran with the bamboos to his master. On account of this feat he was considered advanced
enough to be admitted to instruction in the doctrine.

The Divine Archer

The Emperor Yao, in the twelfth year of his reign (2346 B.C.), one day, while walking in the
streets of Huai-yang, met a man carrying a bow and arrows, the bow being bound round with a
piece of red stuff. This was Ch'ih-chiang Tzu-yü. He told the Emperor he was a skilful archer
and could fly in the air on the wings of the wind. Yao, to test his skill, ordered him to shoot
one of his arrows at a pine-tree on the top of a neighbouring mountain. Ch'ih shot an arrow
which transfixed the tree, and then jumped on to a current of air to go and fetch the arrow
back. Because of this the Emperor named him Shên I, 'the Divine Archer,' attached him to his
suite, and appointed him Chief Mechanician of all Works in Wood. He continued to live only
on flowers.

Vanquishes the Wind-spirit

At this time terrible calamities began to lay waste the land. Ten suns appeared in the sky,
the heat of which burnt up all the crops; dreadful storms uprooted trees and overturned houses;
floods overspread the country. Near the Tung-t'ing Lake a serpent, a thousand feet long, devoured
human beings, and wild boars of enormous size did great damage in the eastern part of the kingdom.
Yao ordered Shên I to go and slay the devils and monsters who were causing all this mischief,
placing three hundred men at his service for that purpose.

Shên I took up his post on Mount Ch'ing Ch'iu to study the cause of the devastating storms,
and found that these tempests were released by Fei Lien, the Spirit of the Wind, who blew them
out of a sack. As we shall see when considering the thunder myths, the ensuing conflict ended
in Fei Lien suing for mercy and swearing friendship to his victor, whereupon the storms ceased.

Dispels the Nine False Suns

After this first victory Shên I led his troops to the banks of the Hsi Ho, West River, at Lin
Shan. Here he discovered that on three neighbouring peaks nine extraordinary birds were blowing
out fire and thus forming nine new suns in the sky. Shên I shot nine arrows in succession,
pierced the birds, and immediately the nine false suns resolved themselves into red clouds
and melted away. Shên I and his soldiers found the nine arrows stuck in nine red stones at
the top of the mountain.

Marries the Sister of the Water-spirit

Shên I then led his soldiers to Kao-liang, where the river had risen and formed an immense
torrent. He shot an arrow into the water, which thereupon withdrew to its source. In the flood
he saw a man clothed in white, riding a white horse and accompanied by a dozen attendants.
He quickly discharged an arrow, striking him in the left eye, and the horseman at once took
to flight. He was accompanied by a young woman named Hêng O [22], the younger sister of Ho
Po, the Spirit of the Waters. Shên I shot an arrow into her hair. She turned and thanked him
for sparing her life, adding: "I will agree to be your wife." After these events had been duly
reported to the Emperor Yao, the wedding took place.

Slays Various Dangerous Creatures

Three months later Yao ordered Shên I to go and kill the great Tung-t'ing serpent. An arrow
in the left eye laid him out stark and dead. The wild boars also were all caught in traps and
slain. As a reward for these achievements Yao canonized Shên I with the title of Marquis Pacifier
of the Country.

Builds a Palace for Chin Mu

About this time T'ai-wu Fu-jên, the third daughter of Hsi Wang Mu, had entered a nunnery on
Nan-min Shan, to the north of Lo-fou Shan, where her mother's palace was situated. She mounted
a dragon to visit her mother, and all along the course left a streak of light in her wake.
One day the Emperor Yao, from the top of Ch'ing-yün Shan, saw this track of light, and asked
Shên I the cause of this unusual phenomenon. The latter mounted the current of luminous air,
and letting it carry him whither it listed, found himself on Lo-fou Shan, in front of the door
of the mountain, which was guarded by a great spiritual monster. On seeing Shên I this creature
called together a large number of phoenixes and other birds of gigantic size and set them at
Shên I. One arrow, however, settled the matter. They all fled, the door opened, and a lady
followed by ten attendants presented herself. She was no other than Chin Mu herself. Shên I,
having saluted her and explained the object of his visit, was admitted to the goddess's palace,
and royally entertained.

"I have heard," said Shên I to her, "that you possess the pills of immortality; I beg you to
give me one or two." "You are a well-known architect," replied Chin Mu; "please build me a
palace near this mountain." Together they went to inspect a celebrated site known as Pai-yü-kuei
Shan, 'White Jade-tortoise Mountain,' and fixed upon it as the location of the new abode of
the goddess. Shên I had all the spirits of the mountain to work for him. The walls were built
of jade, sweet-smelling woods were used for the framework and wainscoting, the roof was of
glass, the steps of agate. In a fortnight's time sixteen palace buildings stretched magnificently
along the side of the mountain. Chin Mu gave to the architect a wonderful pill which would
bestow upon him immortality as well as the faculty of being able at will to fly through the
air. "But," she said, "it must not be eaten now: you must first go through a twelve months'
preparatory course of exercise and diet, without which the pill will not have all the desired
results." Shên I thanked the goddess, took leave of her, and, returning to the Emperor, related
to him all that had happened.

Kills Chisel-tooth

On reaching home, the archer hid his precious pill under a rafter, lest anyone should steal
it, and then began the preparatory course in immortality.

At this time there appeared in the south a strange man named Tso Ch'ih, 'Chisel-tooth.' He
had round eyes and a long projecting tooth. He was a well-known criminal. Yao ordered Shên
I and his small band of brave followers to deal with this new enemy. This extraordinary man
lived in a cave, and when Shên I and his men arrived he emerged brandishing a padlock. Shên
I broke his long tooth by shooting an arrow at it, and Tso Ch'ih fled, but was struck in the
back and laid low by another arrow from Shên I. The victor took the broken tooth with him as
a trophy.

Hêng Ô flies to the Moon

Hêng Ô, during her husband's absence, saw a white light which seemed to issue from a beam in
the roof, while a most delicious odour filled every room. By the aid of a ladder she reached
up to the spot whence the light came, found the pill of immortality, and ate it. She suddenly
felt that she was freed from the operation of the laws of gravity and as if she had wings,
and was just essaying her first flight when Shên I returned. He went to look for his pill,
and, not finding it, asked Hêng Ô what had happened.

The young wife, seized with fear, opened the window and flew out. Shên I took his bow and pursued
her. The moon was full, the night clear, and he saw his wife flying rapidly in front of him,
only about the size of a toad. Just when he was redoubling his pace to catch her up a blast
of wind struck him to the ground like a dead leaf.

Hêng Ô continued her flight until she reached a luminous sphere, shining like glass, of enormous
size, and very cold. The only vegetation consisted of cinnamon-trees. No living being was to
be seen. All of a sudden she began to cough, and vomited the covering of the pill of immortality,
which was changed into a rabbit as white as the purest jade. This was the ancestor of the spirituality
of the yin, or female, principle. Hêng Ô noticed a bitter taste in her mouth, drank some dew,
and, feeling hungry, ate some cinnamon. She took up her abode in this sphere.

As to Shên I, he was carried by the hurricane up into a high mountain. Finding himself before
the door of a palace, he was invited to enter, and found that it was the palace of Tung-hua
Ti-chün, otherwise Tung Wang Kung, the husband of Hsi Wang Mu.

The Sun-palace and the Bird of Dawn

The God of the Immortals said to Shên I: "You must not be annoyed with Hêng Ô. Everybody's
fate is settled beforehand. Your labours are nearing an end, and you will become an Immortal.
It was I who let loose the whirlwind that brought you here. Hêng O, through having borrowed
the forces which by right belong to you, is now an Immortal in the Palace of the Moon. As for
you, you deserve much for having so bravely fought the nine false suns. As a reward you shall
have the Palace of the Sun. Thus the yin and the yang will be united in marriage." This said,
Tung-hua Ti-chün ordered his servants to bring a red Chinese sarsaparilla cake, with a lunar
talisman.

"Eat this cake," he said; "it will protect you from the heat of the solar hearth. And by wearing
this talisman you will be able at will to visit the lunar palace of Hêng O; but the converse
does not hold good, for your wife will not have access to the solar palace." This is why the
light of the moon has its birth in the sun, and decreases in proportion to its distance from
the sun, the moon being light or dark according as the sun comes and goes. Shên I ate the sarsaparilla
cake, attached the talisman to his body, thanked the god, and prepared to leave. Tung Wang
Kung said to him: "The sun rises and sets at fixed times; you do not yet know the laws of day
and night; it is absolutely necessary for you to take with you the bird with the golden plumage,
which will sing to advise you of the exact times of the rising, culmination, and setting of
the sun." "Where is this bird to be found?" asked Shên I. "It is the one you hear calling Ia!
Ia! It is the ancestor of the spirituality of the yang, or male, principle. Through having
eaten the active principle of the sun, it has assumed the form of a three-footed bird, which
perches on the fu-sang tree [a tree said to grow at the place where the sun rises] in the middle
of the Eastern Sea. This tree is several thousands of feet in height and of gigantic girth.
The bird keeps near the source of the dawn, and when it sees the sun taking his morning bath
gives vent to a cry that shakes the heavens and wakes up all humanity. That is why I ordered
Ling Chên-tzu to put it in a cage on T'ao-hua Shan, Peach-blossom Hill; since then its cries
have been less harsh. Go and fetch it and take it to the Palace of the Sun. Then you will understand
all the laws of the daily movements." He then wrote a charm which Shên I was to present to
Ling Chên-tzu to make him open the cage and hand the golden bird over to him.

The charm worked, and Ling Chên-tzu opened the cage. The bird of golden plumage had a sonorous
voice and majestic bearing. "This bird," he said, "lays eggs which hatch out nestlings with
red combs, who answer him every morning when he starts crowing. He is usually called the cock
of heaven, and the cocks down here which crow morning and evening are descendants of the celestial
cock."

Shên I visits the Moon

Shên I, riding on the celestial bird, traversed the air and reached the disk of the sun just
at mid-day. He found himself carried into the centre of an immense horizon, as large as the
earth, and did not perceive the rotatory movement of the sun. He then enjoyed complete happiness
without care or trouble. The thought of the happy hours passed with his wife Hêng O, however,
came back to memory, and, borne on a ray of sunlight, he flew to the moon. He saw the cinnamon-trees
and the frozen-looking horizon. Going to a secluded spot, he found Hêng O there all alone.
On seeing him she was about to run away, but Shên I took her hand and reassured her. "I am
now living in the solar palace," he said; "do not let the past annoy you." Shên I cut down
some cinnamon-trees, used them for pillars, shaped some precious stones, and so built a palace,
which he named Kuang-han Kung, 'Palace of Great Cold.' From that time forth, on the fifteenth
day of every moon, he went to visit her in her palace. That is the conjunction of the yang
and yin, male and female principles, which causes the great brilliancy of the moon at that epoch.

Shên I, on returning to his solar kingdom, built a wonderful palace, which he called the Palace
of the Lonely Park.

From that time the sun and moon each had their ruling sovereign. This régime dates from the
forty-ninth year (2309 B.C.) of Yao's reign.

When the old Emperor was informed that Shên I and his wife had both gone up to Heaven he was
much grieved to lose the man who had rendered him such valuable service, and bestowed upon
him the posthumous title of Tsung Pu, 'Governor of Countries.' In the representations of this
god and goddess the former is shown holding the sun, the latter the moon. The Chinese add the
sequel that Hêng O became changed into a toad, whose outline is traceable on the moon's surface.

Star-worship

The star-deities are adored by parents on behalf of their children; they control courtship
and marriage, bring prosperity or adversity in business, send pestilence and war, regulate
rainfall and drought, and command angels and demons; so every event in life is determined by
the 'star-ruler' who at that time from the shining firmament manages the destinies of men and
nations. The worship is performed in the native homes either by astrologers engaged for that
purpose or by Taoist priests. In times of sickness, ten paper star-gods are arranged, five
good on one side and five bad on the other; a feast is placed before them, and it is supposed
that when the bad have eaten enough they will take their flight to the south-west; the propitiation
of the good star-gods is in the hope that they will expel the evil stars, and happiness thus
be obtained.

The practical effect of this worship is seen in the following examples taken from the Chinese
list of one hundred and twenty-nine lucky and unlucky stars, which, with the sixty cycle-stars
and the twenty-eight constellations, besides a vast multitude of others, make up the celestial
galaxy worshipped by China's millions: the Orphan Star enables a woman to become a man; the
Star of Pleasure decides on betrothals, binding the feet of those destined to be lovers with
silver cords; the Bonepiercing Star produces rheumatism; the Morning Star, if not worshipped,
kills the father or mother during the year; the Balustrade Star promotes lawsuits; the Three-corpse
Star controls suicide, the Peach-blossom Star lunacy; and so on.

The Herdsman and the Weaver-girl

In the myths and legends which have clustered about the observations of the stars by the Chinese
there are subjects for pictorial illustration without number. One of these stories is the fable
of Aquila and Vega, known in Chinese mythology as the Herdsman and the Weaver-girl. The latter,
the daughter of the Sun-god, was so constantly busied with her loom that her father became
worried at her close habits and thought that by marrying her to a neighbour, who herded cattle
on the banks of the Silver Stream of Heaven (the Milky Way), she might awake to a brighter
manner of living.

No sooner did the maiden become wife than her habits and character utterly changed for the
worse. She became not only very merry and lively, but quite forsook loom and needle, giving
up her nights and days to play and idleness; no silly lover could have been more foolish than
she. The Sun-king, in great wrath at all this, concluded that the husband was the cause of
it, and determined to separate the couple. So he ordered him to remove to the other side of
the river of stars, and told him that hereafter they should meet only once a year, on the seventh
night of the seventh month. To make a bridge over the flood of stars, the Sun-king called myriads
of magpies, who thereupon flew together, and, making a bridge, supported the poor lover on
their wings and backs as if on a roadway of solid land. So, bidding his weeping wife farewell,
the lover-husband sorrowfully crossed the River of Heaven, and all the magpies instantly flew
away. But the two were separated, the one to lead his ox, the other to ply her shuttle during
the long hours of the day with diligent toil, and the Sun-king again rejoiced in his daughter's
industry.

At last the time for their reunion drew near, and only one fear possessed the loving wife.
What if it should rain? For the River of Heaven is always full to the brim, and one extra drop
causes a flood which sweeps away even the bird-bridge. But not a drop fell; all the heavens
were clear. The magpies flew joyfully in myriads, making a way for the tiny feet of the little
lady. Trembling with joy, and with heart fluttering more than the bridge of wings, she crossed
the River of Heaven and was in the arms of her husband. This she did every year. The husband
stayed on his side of the river, and the wife came to him on the magpie bridge, save on the
sad occasions when it rained. So every year the people hope for clear weather, and the happy
festival is celebrated alike by old and young.

These two constellations are worshipped principally by women, that they may gain cunning in
the arts of needlework and making of fancy flowers. Water-melons, fruits, vegetables, cakes,
etc., are placed with incense in the reception-room, and before these offerings are performed
the kneeling and the knocking of the head on the ground in the usual way.

The Twenty-eight Constellations

Sacrifices were offered to these spirits by the Emperor on the marble altar of the Temple of
Heaven, and by the high officials throughout the provinces. Of the twenty-eight the following
are regarded as propitious--namely, the Horned, Room, Tail, Sieve, Bushel, House, Wall, Mound,
Stomach, End, Bristling, Well, Drawn-bow, and Revolving Constellations; the Neck, Bottom, Heart,
Cow, Female, Empty, Danger, Astride, Cock, Mixed, Demon, Willow, Star, Wing, are unpropitious.

The twenty-eight constellations seem to have become the abodes of gods as a result of the defeat
of a Taoist Patriarch T'ung-t'ien Chiao-chu, who had espoused the cause of the tyrant Chou,
when he and all his followers were slaughtered by the heavenly hosts in the terrible catastrophe
known as the Battle of the Ten Thousand Immortals. Chiang Tzu-ya as a reward conferred on them
the appanage of the twenty-eight constellations. The five planets, Venus, Jupiter, Mercury,
Mars, and Saturn, are also the abodes of stellar divinities, called the White, Green, Black,
Red, and Yellow Rulers respectively. Stars good and bad are all likewise inhabited by gods
or demons.

A Victim of Ta Chi

Concerning Tzu-wei Hsing, the constellation Tzu-wei (north circumpolar stars), of which the
stellar deity is Po I-k'ao, the following legend is related in the Fêng shên yen i.

Po I-k'ao was the eldest son of Wên Wang, and governed the kingdom during the seven years that
the old King Was detained as a prisoner of the tyrant Chou. He did everything possible to procure
his father's release. Knowing the tastes of the cruel King, he sent him for his harem ten of
the prettiest women who could be found, accompanied by seven chariots made of perfumed wood,
and a white-faced monkey of marvellous intelligence. Besides these he included in his presents
a magic carpet, on which it was necessary only to sit in order to recover immediately from
the effects of drunkenness.

Unfortunately for Po I-k'ao, Chou's favourite concubine, Ta Chi, conceived a passion for him
and had recourse to all sorts of ruses to catch him in her net; but his conduct was throughout
irreproachable. Vexed by his indifference, she tried slander in order to bring about his ruin.
But her calumnies did not at first have the result she expected. Chou, after inquiry, was convinced
of the innocence of Po. But an accident spoiled everything. In the middle of an amusing séance
the monkey which had been given to the King by Po perceived some sweets in the hand of Ta Chi,
and, jumping on to her body, snatched them from Her. The King and his concubine were furious,
Chou had the monkey killed forthwith, and Ta Chi accused Po I-k'ao of having brought the animal
into the palace with the object of making an attempt on the lives of the King and herself.
But the Prince explained that the monkey, being only an animal, could not grasp even the first
idea of entering into a conspiracy.

Shortly after this Po committed an unpardonable fault which changed the goodwill of the King
into mortal enmity. He allowed himself to go so far as to suggest to the King that he should
break off his relations with this infamous woman, the source of all the woes which were desolating
the kingdom, and when Ta Chi on this account grossly insulted him he struck her with his lute.

For this offence Ta Chi caused him to be crucified in the palace. Large nails were driven through
his hands and feet, and his flesh was cut off in pieces. Not content with ruining Po I-k'ao,
this wretched woman wished also to ruin Wen Wang. She therefore advised the King to have the
flesh of the murdered man made up into rissoles and sent as a present to his father. If he
refused to eat the flesh of his own son he was to be accused of contempt for the King, and
there would thus be a pretext for having him executed. Wen Wang, being versed in divination
and the science of the pa kua, Eight Trigrams, knew that these rissoles contained the flesh
of his son, and to avoid the snare spread for him he ate three of the rissoles in the presence
of the royal envoys. On their return the latter reported this to the King, who found himself
helpless on learning of Wen Wang's conduct.

Po I-k'ao was canonized by Chiang Tzu-ya, and appointed ruler of the constellation Tzu-wei
of the North Polar heavens.

Myths of Time

T'ai Sui is the celestial spirit who presides over the year. He is the President of the Ministry
of Time. This god is much to be feared. Whoever offends against him is sure to be destroyed.
He strikes when least expected to. T'ai Sui is also the Ministry itself, whose members, numbering
a hundred and twenty, are set over time, years, months, and days. The conception is held by
some writers to be of Chaldeo-Assyrian origin.

The god T'ai Sui is not mentioned in the T'ang and Sung rituals, but in the Yüan dynasty (A.D.
1280-1368) sacrifices were offered to him in the College of the Grand Historiographer whenever
any work of importance was about to be undertaken. Under this dynasty the sacrifices were offered
to T'ai Sui and to the ruling gods of the months and of the days. But these sacrifices were
not offered at regular times: it was only at the beginning of the Ch'ing (Manchu) dynasty (1644-1912)
that it was decided to offer the sacrifices at fixed periods.

The Planet Jupiter

T'ai Sui corresponds to the planet Jupiter. He travels across the sky, passing through the
twelve sidereal mansions. He is a stellar god. Therefore an altar is raised to him and sacrifices
are offered on it under the open sky. This practice dates from the beginning of the Ming dynasty,
when the Emperor T'ai Tsu ordered sacrifices to this god to be made throughout the Empire.
According to some authors, he corresponds to the god of the twelve sidereal mansions. He is
also variously represented as the moon, which turns to the left in the sky, and the sun, which
turns to the right. The diviners gave to T'ai Sui the title of Grand Marshal, following the
example of the usurper Wang Mang (A.D. 9-23) of the Western Han dynasty, who gave that title
to the year-star.

Legend of T'ai Sui

The following is the legend of T'ai Sui.

T'ai Sui was the son of the Emperor Chou, the last of the Yin dynasty. His mother was Queen
Chiang. When he was born he looked like a lump of formless flesh. The infamous Ta Chi, the
favourite concubine of this wicked Emperor, at once informed him that a monster had been born
in the palace, and the over-credulous sovereign ordered that it should immediately be cast
outside the city. Shên Chên-jên, who was passing, saw the small abandoned one, and said: "This
is an Immortal who has just been born." With his knife he cut open the caul which enveloped
it, and the child was exposed.

His protector carried him to the cave Shui Lien, where he led the life of a hermit, and entrusted
the infant to Ho Hsien-ku, who acted as his nurse and brought him up.

The child's hermit-name was Yin Ting-nu, his ordinary name Yin No-cha, but during his boyhood
he was known as Yin Chiao, i.e. 'Yin the Deserted of the Suburb,' When he had reached an age
when he was sufficiently intelligent, his nurse informed him that he was not her son, but really
the son of the Emperor Chou, who, deceived by the calumnies of his favourite Ta Chi, had taken
him for an evil monster and had him cast out of the palace. His mother had been thrown down
from an upper storey and killed. Yin Chiao went to his rescuer and begged him to allow him
to avenge his mother's death. The Goddess T'ien Fei, the Heavenly Concubine, picked out two
magic weapons from the armoury in the cave, a battle-axe and club, both of gold, and gave them
to Yin Chiao. When the Shang army was defeated at Mu Yeh, Yin Chiao broke into a tower where
Ta Chi was, seized her, and brought her before the victor, King Wu, who gave him permission
to split her head open with his battle-axe. But Ta Chi was a spiritual hen-pheasant (some say
a spiritual vixen). She transformed herself into smoke and disappeared. To reward Yin Chiao
for his filial piety and bravery in fighting the demons, Yü Ti canonized him with the title
T'ai Sui Marshal Yin.

According to another version of the legend, Yin Chiao fought on the side of the Yin against
Wu Wang, and after many adventures was caught by Jan Têng between two mountains, which he pressed
together, leaving only Yin Chiao's head exposed above the summits. The general Wu Chi promptly
cut it off with a spade. Chiang Tz[u)]-ya subsequently canonized Yin Chiao.

Worship of T'ai Sui

The worship of T'ai Sui seems to have first taken place in the reign of Shên Tsung (A.D. 1068-86)
of the Sung dynasty, and was continued during the remainder of the Monarchical Period. The
object of the worship is to avert calamities, T'ai Sui being a dangerous spirit who can do
injury to palaces and cottages, to people in their houses as well as to travellers on the roads.
But he has this peculiarity, that he injures persons and things not in the district in which
he himself is, but in those districts which adjoin it. Thus, if some constructive work is undertaken
in a region where T'ai Sui happens to be, the inhabitants of the neighbouring districts take
precautions against his evil influence. This they generally do by hanging out the appropriate
talisman. In order to ascertain in what region T'ai Sui is at any particular time, an elaborate
diagram is consulted. This consists of a representation of the twelve terrestrial branches
or stems, ti chih> and the ten celestial trunks, t'ien kan, indicating the cardinal points
and the intermediate points, north-east, north-west, south-east, and south-west. The four cardinal
points are further verified with the aid of the Five Elements, the Five Colours, and the Eight
Trigrams. By using this device, it is possible to find the geographical position of T'ai Sui
during the current year, the position of threatened districts, and the methods to be employed
to provide against danger.

CHAPTER VI

Myths of Thunder, Lightning, Wind, and Rain

The Ministry of Thunder and Storms

As already noted, affairs in the Otherworld are managed by official Bureaux or Ministries very
similar to those on earth. The Fêng shên yen i mentions several of these, and gives full details
of their constitution. The first is the Ministry of Thunder and Storms. This is composed of
a large number of officials. The principal ones are Lei Tsu, the Ancestor of Thunder, Lei Kung,
the Duke of Thunder, Tien Mu, the Mother of Lightning, Feng Po, the Count of Wind, and Y['u]
Shih, the Master of Rain. These correspond to the Buddhist Asuras, the "fourth class of sentient
beings, the mightiest of all demons, titanic enemies of the Dêvas," and the Vedic Maruta, storm-demons.
In the temples Lei Tsu is placed in the centre with the other four to right and left. There
are also sometimes represented other gods of rain, or attendants. These are Hsing T'ien Chün
and T'ao T'ien Chün, both officers of Wen Chung, or Lei Tsu, Ma Yüan-shuai, Generalissimo Ma,
whose exploits are referred to later, and others.

The President of the Ministry of Thunder

This divinity has three eyes, one in the middle of his forehead, from which, when open, a ray
of white light proceeds to a distance of more than two feet. Mounted on a black unicorn, he
traverses millions of miles in the twinkling of an eye.

His origin is ascribed to a man named Wên Chung, generally known as Wên Chung T'ai-shih, 'the
Great Teacher Wên Chung,' He was a minister of the tyrant king Chou (1154-1122 B.C.), and fought
against the armies of the Chou dynasty. Being defeated, he fled to the mountains of Yen, Yen
Shan, where he met Ch'ih Ching-tzu, one of the alleged discoverers of fire, and joined battle
with him; the latter, however, flashed his yin-yang mirror at the unicorn, and put it out of
action. Lei Chên-tzu, one of Wu Wang's marshals, then struck the animal with his staff, and
severed it in twain.

Wên Chung escaped in the direction of the mountains of Chüeh-lung Ling, where another marshal,
Yün Chung-tzu, barred his way. Yün's hands had the power of producing lightning, and eight
columns of mysterious fire suddenly came out of the earth, completely enveloping Wên Chung.
They were thirty feet high and ten feet in circumference. Ninety fiery dragons came out of
each and flew away up into the air. The sky was like a furnace, and the earth shook with the
awful claps of thunder. In this fiery prison Wên Chung died.

When the new dynasty finally proved victorious, Chiang Tzu-ya, by order of Yüan-shih T'ien-tsun,
conferred on Wên Chung the supreme direction of the Ministry of Thunder, appointing him celestial
prince and plenipotentiary defender of the laws governing the distribution of clouds and rain.
His full title was Celestial and Highly-honoured Head of the Nine Orbits of the Heavens, Voice
of the Thunder, and Regulator of the Universe. His birthday is celebrated on the twenty-fourth
day of the sixth moon.

The Duke of Thunder

The Spirit of Thunder, for whom Lei Tsu is often mistaken, is represented as an ugly, black,
bat-winged demon, with clawed feet, monkey's head, and eagle's beak, who holds in one hand
a steel chisel, and in the other a spiritual hammer, with which he beats numerous drums strung
about him, thus producing the terrific noise of thunder. According to Chinese reasoning it
is the sound of these drums, and not the lightning, which causes death.

A. Gruenwedel, in his Guide to the Lamaist Collection of Prince Uchtomsky, p. 161, states that
the Chino-Japanese God of Thunder, Lei Kung, has the shape of the Indian divine bird Garuda.
Are we to suppose, then, that the Chinese Lei Kung is of Indian origin? In modern pictures
the God of Thunder is depicted with a cock's head and claws, carrying in one hand the hammer,
in the other the chisel. We learn, however, from Wang Ch'ung's Lun Hêng that in the first century
B.C., when Buddhism was not yet introduced into China, the 'Thunderer' was represented as a
strong man, not as a bird, with one hand dragging a cluster of drums, and with the other brandishing
a hammer. Thus Lei Kung existed already in China when the latter received her first knowledge
of India. Yet his modern image may well owe its wings to the Indian rain-god Vajrapani, who
in one form appears with Garuda wings.

Lei Kung P'u-sa, the avatar of Lei Kung (whose existence as the Spirit of Thunder is denied
by at least one Chinese writer), has made various appearances on the earth. One of these is
described below.

Lei Kung in the Tree

A certain Yeh Ch'ien-chao of Hsin Chou, when a youth, used to climb the mountain Chien-ch'ang
Shan for the purpose of cutting firewood and collecting medicinal herbs. One day when he had
taken refuge under a tree during a rain-storm there was a loud clap of thunder, and he saw
a winged being, with a blue face, large mouth, and bird's claws, caught in a cleft of the tree.
This being addressed Yeh, saying: "I am Lei Kung. In splitting this tree I got caught in it;
if you will free me I will reward you handsomely." The woodcutter opened the cleft wider by
driving in some stones as wedges, and liberated the prisoner. "Return to this spot to-morrow,"
said the latter, "and I will reward you." The next day the woodcutter kept the appointment,
and received from Lei Kung a book. "If you consult this work," he explained, "you will be able
at will to bring thunder or rain, cure sickness, or assuage sorrow. We are five brothers, of
whom I am the youngest. When you want to bring rain call one or other of my brothers; but call
me only in case of pressing necessity, because I have a bad character; but I will come if it
is really necessary." Having said these words, he disappeared.

Yeh Ch'ien-chao, by means of the prescriptions contained in the mysterious book, could cure
illnesses as easily as the sun dissipates the morning mist. One day, when he was intoxicated
and had gone to bed in the temple of Chi-chou Ssu, the magistrate wished to arrest and punish
him. But when he reached the steps of the yamên, Ch'ien-chao called Lei Kung to his aid. A
terrible clap of thunder immediately resounded throughout the district. The magistrate, nearly
dead with fright, at once dismissed the case without punishing the culprit. The four brothers
never failed to come to his aid.

By the use of his power Ch'ien-chao saved many regions from famine by bringing timely rain.

The Mysterious Bottle

Another legend relates that an old woman living in Kiangsi had her arm broken through being
struck by lightning, when a voice from above was heard saying: "I have made a mistake." A bottle
fell out of space, and the voice again said: "Apply the contents and you will be healed at
once." This being done, the old woman's arm was promptly mended. The villagers, regarding the
contents of the bottle as divine medicine, wished to take it away and hide it for future use,
but several of them together could not lift it from the ground. Suddenly, however, it rose
up and disappeared into space. Other persons in Kiangsi were also struck, and the same voice
was heard to say: "Apply some grubs to the throat and they will recover." After this had been
done the victims returned to consciousness none the worse for their experience.

The worship of Lei Kung seems to have been carried on regularly from about the time of the
Christian era.

Lei Chên-tzu

Another Son of Thunder is Lei Chên-tzu, mentioned above, whose name when a child was Wên Yü,
who was hatched from an egg after a clap of thunder and found by the soldiers of Wên Wang in
some brushwood near an old tomb. The infant's chief characteristic was its brilliant eyes.
Wên Wang, who already had ninety-nine children, adopted it as his hundredth, but gave it to
a hermit named Yün Chung-tzu to rear as his disciple. The hermit showed him the way to rescue
his adopted father from the tyrant who held him prisoner. In seeking for some powerful weapon
the child found on the hillside two apricots, and ate them both. He then noticed that wings
had grown on his shoulders, and was too much ashamed to return home.

But the hermit, who knew intuitively what had taken place, sent a servant to seek him. When
they met the servant said: "Do you know that your face is completely altered?" The mysterious
fruit had not only caused Lei Chên-tzu to grow wings, known as Wings of the Wind and Thunder,
but his face had become green, his nose long and pointed, and two tusks protruded horizontally
from each side of his mouth, while his eyes shone like mirrors.

Lei Chên-tzu now went and rescued Wên Wang, dispersing his enemies by means of his mystical
power and bringing the old man back on his shoulders. Having placed him in safety he returned
to the hermit.

The Mother of Lightning

This divinity is represented as a female figure, gorgeously apparelled in blue, green, red,
and white, holding in either hand a mirror from which proceed two broad streams or flashes
of light. Lightning, say the Chinese, is caused by the rubbing together of the yin and the
yang, just as sparks of fire may be produced by the friction of two substances.

The Origin of the Spirit of Lightning

Tung Wang Kung, the King of the Immortals, was playing at pitch-pot [23] with Yü Nü. He lost;
whereupon Heaven smiled, and from its half-open mouth a ray of light came out. This was lightning;
it is regarded as feminine because it is supposed to come from the earth, which is of the yin,
or female, principle.

The God of the Wind

Fêng Po, the God of the Wind, is represented as an old man with a white beard, yellow cloak,
and blue and red cap. He holds a large sack, and directs the wind which comes from its mouth
in any direction he pleases.

There are various ideas regarding the nature of this deity. He is regarded as a stellar divinity
under the control of the star Ch'i, [24] because the wind blows at the time when the moon leaves
that celestial mansion. He is also said to be a dragon called Fei Lien, at first one of the
supporters of the rebel Ch'ih Yu, who was defeated by Huang Ti. Having been transformed into
a spiritual monster, he stirred up tremendous winds in the southern regions. The Emperor Yao
sent Shên I with three hundred soldiers to quiet the storms and appease Ch'ih Yu's relatives,
who were wreaking their vengeance on the people. Shên I ordered the people to spread a long
cloth in front of their houses, fixing it with stones. The wind, blowing against this, had
to change its direction. Shên I then flew on the wind to the top of a high mountain, whence
he saw a monster at the base. It had the shape of a huge yellow and white sack, and kept inhaling
and exhaling in great gusts. Shên I, concluding that this was the cause of all these storms,
shot an arrow and hit the monster, whereupon it took refuge in a deep cave. Here it turned
on Shên I and, drawing a sword, dared him to attack the Mother of the Winds. Shên I, however,
bravely faced the monster and discharged another arrow, this time hitting it in the knee. The
monster immediately threw down its sword and begged that its life might be spared.

Fei Lien is elsewhere described as a dragon who was originally one of the wicked ministers
of the tyrant Chou, and could walk with unheard-of swiftness. Both he and his son Ô Lai, who
was so strong that he could tear a tiger or rhinoceros to pieces with his hands, were killed
when in the service of Chou Wang. Fei Lien is also said to have the body of a stag, about the
size of a leopard, with a bird's head, horns, and a serpent's tail, and to be able to make
the wind blow whenever he wishes.

The Master of Rain

Yü Shih, the Master of Rain, clad in yellow scale-armour, with a blue hat and yellow busby,
stands on a cloud and from a watering-can pours rain upon the earth. Like many other gods,
however, he is represented in various forms. Sometimes he holds a plate, on which is a small
dragon, in his left hand, while with his right he pours down the rain. He is obviously the
Parjanya of Vedism.

According to a native account, the God of Rain is one Ch'ih Sung-tzu, who appeared during a
terrible drought in the reign of Shên Nung (2838-2698 B.C.), and owing to his reputed magical
power was requested by the latter to bring rain from the sky. "Nothing is easier," he replied;
"pour a bottleful of water into an earthen bowl and give it to me." This being done, he plucked
from a neighbouring mountain a branch of a tree, soaked it in the water, and with it sprinkled
the earth. Immediately clouds gathered and rain fell in torrents, filling the rivers to overflowing.
Ch'ih Sung-tzu was then honoured as the God of Rain, and his images show him holding the mystic
bowl. He resides in the K'un-lun Mountains, and has many extraordinary peculiarities, such
as the power to go through water without getting wet, to pass through fire without being burned,
and to float in space.

This Rain-god also assumes the form of a silkworm chrysalis in another account. He is there
believed to possess a concubine who has a black face, holds a serpent in each hand, and has
other serpents, red and green, reposing on her right and left ears respectively; also a mysterious
bird, with only one leg, the shang yang, which can change its height at will and drink the
seas dry. The following legend is related of this bird.

The One-legged Bird

At the time when Hsüan-ming Ta-jên instructed Fei Lien in the secrets of magic, the latter
saw a wonderful bird which drew in water with its beak and blew it out again in the shape of
rain. Fei lien tamed it, and would take it about in his sleeve.

Later on a one-legged bird was seen in the palace of the Prince of Ch'i walking up and down
and hopping in front of the throne. Being much puzzled, the Prince sent a messenger to Lu to
inquire of Confucius concerning this strange behaviour. "This bird is a shang yang" said Confucius;
"its appearance is a sign of rain. In former times the children used to amuse themselves by
hopping on one foot, knitting their eyebrows, and saying: 'It will rain, because the shang
yang is disporting himself.' Since this bird has gone to Ch'i, heavy rain will fall, and the
people should be told to dig channels and repair the dykes, for the whole country will be inundated."
Not only Ch'i, but all the adjacent kingdoms were flooded; all sustained grievous damage except
Ch'i, where the necessary precautions had been taken. This caused Duke Ching to exclaim: "Alas!
how few listen to the words of the sages!"

Ma Yüan-shuai

Ma Yüan-shuai is a three-eyed monster condemned by Ju Lai to reincarnation for excessive cruelty
in the extermination of evil spirits. In order to obey this command he entered the womb of
Ma Chin-mu in the form of five globes of fire. Being a precocious youth, he could fight when
only three days old, and killed the Dragon-king of the Eastern Sea. From his instructor he
received a spiritual work dealing with wind, thunder, snakes, etc., and a triangular piece
of stone which he could at will change into anything he liked. By order of Yü Ti he subdued
the Spirits of the Wind and Fire, the Blue Dragon, the King of the Five Dragons, and the Spirit
of the Five Hundred Fire Ducks, all without injury to himself. For these and many other enterprises
he was rewarded by Yü Ti with various magic articles and with the title of Generalissimo of
the West, and is regarded as so successful an interceder with Yü Ti that he is prayed to for
all sorts of benefits.

CHAPTER VII

Myths of the Waters

The Dragons

The dragons are spirits of the waters. "The dragon is a kind of being whose miraculous changes
are inscrutable." In a sense the dragon is the type of a man, self-controlled, and with powers
that verge upon the supernatural. In China the dragon, except as noted below, is not a power
for evil, but a beneficent being producing rain and representing the fecundating principle
in nature. He is the essence of the yang, or male, principle. "He controls the rain, and so
holds in his power prosperity and peace." The evil dragons are those introduced by the Buddhists,
who applied the current dragon legends to the nagas inhabiting the mountains. These mountain
nagas, or dragons (perhaps originally dreaded mountain tribes), are harmful, those inhabiting
lakes and rivers friendly and helpful. The dragon, the "chief of the three hundred and sixty
scaly reptiles," is most generally represented as having the head of a horse and the tail of
a snake, with wings on its sides. It has four legs. The imperial dragon has five claws on each
foot, other dragons only four. The dragon is also said to have nine 'resemblances': "its horns
resemble those of a deer, its head that of a camel, its eyes those of a devil, its neck that
of a snake, its abdomen that of a large cockle, its scales those of a carp, its claws those
of an eagle, the soles of its feet those of a tiger, its ears those of an ox;" but some have
no ears, the organ of hearing being said to be in the horns, or the creature "hears through
its horns." These various properties are supposed to indicate the "fossil remnants of primitive
worship of many animals." The small dragon is like the silk caterpillar. The large dragon fills
the Heaven and the earth. Before the dragon, sometimes suspended from his neck, is a pearl.
This represents the sun. There are azure, scaly, horned, hornless, winged, etc., dragons, which
apparently evolve one out of the other: "a horned dragon," for example, "in a thousand years
changes to a flying dragon."

The dragon is also represented as the father of the great emperors of ancient times. His bones,
teeth, and saliva are employed as a medicine. He has the power of transformation and of rendering
himself visible or invisible at pleasure. In the spring he ascends to the skies, and in the
autumn buries himself in the watery depths. Some are wingless, and rise into the air by their
own inherent power.

The Buddhists count their dragons in number equal to the fish of the great deep, which defies
arithmetical computation, and can be expressed only by their sacred numerals. The people have
a more certain faith in them than in most of their divinities, because they see them so often;
every cloud with a curious configuration or serpentine tail is a dragon. "We see him," they
say. The scattering of the cloud is his disappearance. He rules the hills, is connected with
fêng-shui (geomancy), dwells round the graves, is associated with the Confucian worship, is
the Neptune of the sea, and appears on dry land.

The Dragon-kings

The Sea-dragon Kings live in gorgeous palaces in the depths of the sea, where they feed on
pearls and opals. There are five of these divinities, the chief being in the centre, and the
other four occupying the north, the west, the south, and the east. Each is a league in length,
and so bulky that in shifting its posture it tosses one mountain against another. It has five
feet, one of them being in the middle of its belly, and each foot is armed with five sharp
claws. It can reach into the heavens, and stretch itself into all quarters of the sea. It has
a glowing armour of yellow scales, a beard under its long snout, a hairy tail, and shaggy legs.
Its forehead projects over its blazing eyes, its ears are small and thick, its mouth gaping,
its tongue long, and its teeth sharp. Fish are boiled by the blast of its breath, and roasted
by the fiery exhalations of its body. When it rises to the surface the whole ocean surges,
waterspouts foam, and typhoons rage. When it flies, wingless, through the air, the winds howl,
torrents of rain descend, houses are unroofed, the firmament is filled with a din, and whatever
lies along its route is swept away with a roar in the hurricane created by the speed of its
passage.

The five Sea-dragon Kings are all immortal. They know each other's thoughts, plans, and wishes
without intercommunication. Like all the other gods they go once a year to the superior Heavens,
to make an annual report to the Supreme Ruler; but they go in the third month, at which time
none of the other gods dare appear, and their stay above is but brief. They generally remain
in the depths of the ocean, where their courts are filled with their progeny, their dependents,
and their attendants, and where the gods and genii sometimes visit them. Their palaces, of
divers coloured transparent stones, with crystal doors, are said to have been seen in the early
morning by persons gazing into the deep waters.

The Foolish Dragon

The part of the great Buddha legend referring to the dragon is as follows:

In years gone by, a dragon living in the great sea saw that his wife's health was not good.
He, seeing her colour fade away, said: "My dear, what shall I get you to eat?" Mrs Dragon was
silent. Just tell me and I will get it," pleaded the affectionate husband. "You cannot do it;
why trouble?" quoth she. "Trust me, and you shall have your heart's desire," said the dragon.
"Well, I want a monkey's heart to eat." "Why, Mrs Dragon, the monkeys live in the mountain
forests! How can I get one of their hearts?" "Well, I am going to die; I know I am."

Forthwith the dragon went on shore, and, spying a monkey on the top of a tree, said: "Hail,
shining one, are you not afraid you will fall?" "No, I have no such fear." "Why eat of one
tree? Cross the sea, and you will find forests of fruit and flowers." "How can I cross?" "Get
on my back." The dragon with his tiny load went seaward, and then suddenly dived down. "Where
are you going?" said the monkey, with the salt water in his eyes and mouth. "Oh! my dear sir!
my wife is very sad and ill, and has taken a fancy to your heart." "What shall I do?" thought
the monkey. He then spoke, "Illustrious friend, why did not you tell me? I left my heart on
the top of the tree; take me back, and I will get it for Mrs Dragon." The dragon returned to
the shore. As the monkey was tardy in coming down from the tree, the dragon said: "Hurry up,
little friend, I am waiting." Then the monkey thought within himself, "What a fool this dragon is!"

Then Buddha said to his followers: "At this time I was the monkey."

The Ministry of Waters

